-- 
Oil at Libyan Ports May Run Low on Disrupted Production, OSG, Teekay Say

-- B y   A l i s t a i r   H o l l o w a y   a n d   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-03-01T12:23:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/oil-for-export-from-libya-may-run-low-on-output-disruptions-shippers-say.html
Crude supplies for loading at Libyan
ports may start to run low because of disrupted production at  oil fields  caused by an uprising against leader Muammar Qaddafi,
two ship owners said.  While six owners of tankers carrying crude, refined oil
products and liquefied natural gas reported successful loadings
during the past week, at least seven oil companies’ production
was disrupted. Ras Lanuf, Libya’s largest refinery, had its oil
supply interrupted, two company officials said yesterday.  “They might be the last cargoes out of the ports because
the flow of oil has stopped,” Bruce Chan of Teekay Tanker
Services said by phone today. “It may have been oil that
arrived at the port in the tanks prior to the disruption,” said
the president of the business unit of  Teekay Corp ., two of whose
tankers loaded in  Libya  in the past week.  Crude oil traded in  New York  jumped almost 14 percent last
week as traders speculated that Libyan supply, the third-
largest in  Africa , is being disrupted and that regional unrest
is spreading. Riots from  Morocco  to Bahrain have already
toppled leaders in Tunisia and Egypt and there are protests
in Yemen, to the south of  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest
oil producer.  As much as 1 million barrels of Libya’s daily oil output
may have been shut,  Barclays Capital  said in a Feb. 23 report.
The country produced 1.65 million barrels a day in 2009 or about
2 percent of the global total, according to data from BP Plc.  Crude Transportation  “It’s slowing down, and we foresee it slowing down more
and more to more or less come to a halt,” Mats Berglund, head
of the crude transportation strategic business unit at Overseas
Shipholding Group, said on a conference call yesterday. The New
York-based company, the largest U.S.-based oil tanker owner,
doesn’t have ships in Libya, he said.  Shipping lines including Thenamaris Ships Management Ltd.,
Torm A/S and Polembros Shipping Ltd. said they successfully
loaded energy cargoes in the past week. Ports are mostly
operating and oil cargoes still leaving,  Clarkson Plc , the
world’s biggest shipbroker, said yesterday. Some disruptions
were caused by bad weather or because Libyan authorities
couldn’t be contacted, Clarkson said.  The disruption has boosted the cost of hiring tankers
because alternative supplies from West Africa or Saudi Arabia
are being shipped over longer distances, Teekay’s Chan said.  Tanker rates for shipping 600,000-barrel cargoes of crude
across the Mediterranean advanced 65 percent last week to 155.63
industry standard Worldscale points. That equates to daily
earnings of $31,256.  Worldscale points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or
flat rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the Worldscale Association in  London  to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alistair Holloway in London at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net ;
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net . 