-- 
Thomas Cook Chief Says Greece, Spain Gaining in Tourism From Africa Unrest

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-03-01T11:34:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/thomas-cook-chief-says-greece-spain-gaining-from-africa-unrest.html
  Greece  and Spain are the two main
beneficiaries of a shift by holidaymakers away from Egypt and
Tunisia, according to the head of  Thomas Cook Group Plc ,
Europe’s second-largest tour operator.  The southern European countries are “clear winners” as
customers seek to avoid northern  Africa  amid political unrest in
the region, Thomas Cook Chief Executive Officer Manny Fontenla- Novoa said in an interview in  London . Greek hoteliers have cut
prices after last year’s economic contraction, while their
Spanish counterparts are also offering better deals, he said.  Tourism in Greece has seen a “real comeback, especially
after all the problems there last year,” the CEO said
yesterday. In Spain, the Balearic Islands, particularly Majorca,
have “benefited hugely,” he said.  Thomas Cook and larger rival TUI Travel Plc have scrapped
trips this year from some European countries to Egypt and
Tunisia and brought customers home early. Egypt accounts for
about 7 percent of  Thomas Cook ’s annual profit, while Spain and
Greece account for a much larger proportion, according to Wyn Ellis, an analyst at Numis Securities in London.  “Consumers are going to seek alternative destinations to
Egypt, Tunisia and even Morocco, wanting to avoid any kind of
risk,” said Ellis. “It won’t be easy for tour operators to
shift holidays from north Africa to other markets without
Spanish or Greek hoteliers raising prices.”  Thomas Cook has estimated that the cost of canceled trips
to Egypt and Tunisia and of repatriating customers may cut
second-quarter profit by about 20 million pounds ($33 million).
The CEO said there may be some more expenses in the second half.    Oil Prices   Thomas Cook’s profitability is likely to improve this year,
led by demand for holidays in Scandinavia and Germany, Fontenla-
Novoa said. The company expects higher profit in the U.K., where
it is prepared for “fragile”  consumer confidence , he said.  The tour operator, which operates its own planes, is “well
hedged” against the rise in oil prices this year, the CEO said.  Thomas Cook posted a full-year loss of 2.6 million pounds
in the year ended Sept. 30 because of costs for assisting
passengers stranded when a volcanic eruption led to the shutdown
of European airspace. The shares have fallen 19 percent in the
past year, more than TUI Travel’s 13 percent drop.  Thomas Cook expects to get a decision from U.K. competition
authorities on the planned merger of its U.K. travel and
foreign-exchange units with those of Co-operative Group Ltd. as
soon as August, Fontenla-Novoa said. “I feel there’s an
extremely strong case,” he said. “This deal will happen.”  Thomas Cook wants to “digest” acquisitions announced
last year in Russia,  Germany  and the U.K. before seeking other
combinations, the CEO said. The company may consider forming a
joint venture in  China  in 2012, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  