-- 
OTP, Erste, Raiffeisen Drop on Hungary Tax, Forint Fixing

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-03-01T17:28:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/otp-bank-falls-from-3-week-high-on-taxes-forint-fixing-report.html
OTP Bank Nyrt. led central European
banks lower after Hungary said it will delay corporate-tax cuts
and a newspaper reported the government seeks to fix the
forint’s rate against the Swiss franc on foreign-currency loans.    Intesa Sanpaolo SpA  and  Raiffeisen Bank International AG ,
whose units are the fifth and sixth largest lenders in Hungary,
respectively, were among the 10 biggest losers in the in the 48-
member Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index
today.  Erste Group Bank AG , owner of the fourth biggest bank,
also fell.  The European Union’s most indebted eastern member will push
back by a year a reduction in the income tax for companies that
earn more than 500 million forint ($2.5 billion) and expects
unchanged bank-tax revenue in 2012, according to a government
plan given to reporters in Budapest today.  The plan “confirmed that the bank tax will remain in place
at full in 2012 versus previous expectations of cutting it by 50
percent that year,” UniCredit SpA analysts Gillian Edgeworth in  London  and Gyula Toth in Vienna wrote in a report today.  OTP, the country’s biggest lender, declined 3.4 percent to
5,679 forint, the biggest slump in more than three months, at
the 5:09 p.m. closing in Budapest. Erste fell 2 percent and
Raiffeisen declined 2.1 percent in Vienna, while Intesa lost 2.7
percent in Milan.  ‘Negative Sentiment’  The Hungarian government is working on a plan to freeze the  exchange rate  against the franc on foreign-currency loans until
2014 to protect borrowers and may set the rate at 190 forint,
Hirszerzo news website reported today, citing unnamed bankers.
Robert Szabo, a spokesman at the  Economy Ministry , had no
immediate comment on the Hirszerzo report when contacted by
phone by Bloomberg reporters.  “This is not confirmed at all but generates some negative
sentiment,” Edgeworth and Toth wrote in the UniCredit note.    Hungary ’s currency weakened 18 percent versus the franc
last year, the most since 1995, driving up costs for holders of
mortgages denominated in the Swiss currency and hurting banks’
profits. The forint slid 0.4 percent to 212.134 per franc today.  The difference between the current rate and 190 forint per
franc “and the loan stock would imply a gap of circa 700
billion forint, which the banks would have to finance and could
also mean potential further credit loss for the banks and
eventually for the government,” the UniCredit analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  