-- 
Tottenham Poised to Move for Manchester City's Micah Richards: Roundup

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-03-01T10:43:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/tottenham-poised-to-move-for-manchester-city-s-micah-richards-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Spurs Target Richards  Tottenham is ready to renew its interest in Manchester City
defender Micah Richards, who could move to White Hart Lane in a
15 million-pound ($24.5 million) transfer, the  Daily Mail 
reported.  Spurs manager  Harry Redknapp  tried unsuccessfully to bring
Richards to  London  in the last offseason. Now the player’s
advisers are suggesting he’s open to leaving City at the end of
this season, the Mail said.  Arsenal Injury Blows  Arsenal, beaten in the League Cup final by Birmingham two
days ago, has suffered injury setbacks as it chases three other
titles, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Striker Robin van Persie has a knee injury and is a serious
doubt for the Champions League return match in Barcelona a week
today. Also, defender Thomas Vermaelen won’t be fit enough to
make his comeback in a reserve-team game against West Ham, the
Mail said. He’s had an Achilles tendon injury.  Arsenal faces Leyton Orient in an F.A. Cup fifth-round
replay tomorrow. The Gunners are second in the Premier League,
four points behind  Manchester United .  Bannan for Leeds?  Leeds wants to sign Aston Villa midfielder Barry Bannan to
boost its bid for promotion to the Premier League, the  Daily
Mirror  reported.  Coach Simon Grayson would like to take Bannan on loan for
the rest of the season after the player slipped out of first-
team contention at Villa, the Mirror added.  Leeds is currently sixth in the Championship, in the last
playoff place.  Owl of Abuse  Panama defender Luis Moreno faces punishment after he
kicked an injured owl that had landed on the field during a game
for his Colombian club, Deportivo Pereira, the  Daily Telegraph 
reported.  The bird, the mascot for opposing team Atletico Junior, had
already been hit by the ball, leading the referee to stop play.
It’s expected to recover from a suspected minor fracture to its
right leg, the newspaper added.  Moreno, who faced shouts of “murderer” from Atletico
fans, apologized for his actions.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 