-- 
Toyota’s U.S. Sales Increases 42%, Unhurt by Recalls; Nissan, Hyundai Gain

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-03-02T02:36:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/toyota-s-u-s-sales-surge-42-unhurt-by-recalls-nissan-hyundai-climb.html
  Toyota Motor Corp . led U.S. sales
gains by Asian carmakers with a 42 percent surge in February,
the biggest in at least 10 years, even after the Japanese
company recalled 2.2 million vehicles last week.  Sales of Toyota, Lexus and Scion-brand vehicles last month
rose by the greatest percentage of any month since 2000, said
Carly Schaffner, a spokeswoman for Toyota’s U.S. sales unit.
Deliveries increased 22 percent at Honda Motor Co., 32 percent
at Nissan Motor Co. and 28 percent at  Hyundai Motor Co .,
according to Autodata Corp., a Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey-based
research company.  “We didn’t see anything that was measurable, in terms of
an impact” from Toyota’s recall, said  Jesse Toprak , an analyst
at TrueCar Inc., an industry data provider in Santa Monica,  California . “People who were turned off to Toyota because of
recalls were already turned off. Toyota did exceed our
expectations.”  After spending 15 months reassuring consumers about quality
following millions of vehicle recalls for defects linked to
unintended acceleration, Toyota said Feb. 24 it would call back
additional models to fix flaws involving floor mats and carpets.
Earlier in the month, U.S. officials said a review didn’t show
any link between electronics and reports of sudden acceleration
in  Toyota vehicles .  “Our owners were pleased to see their belief in the
vehicles validated” by the report,  Bob Carter , group vice
president for U.S. sales at the Toyota City, Japan-based
carmaker, said on a conference call yesterday.  February Sales  Even with the U.S. sales increase, Toyota fell 1.7 percent
to 3,790 yen as of the 11 a.m. trading break on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange, while Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average lost
1.6 percent. Honda dropped 1.1 percent to 3,570 yen and Nissan
declined 1.1 percent to 848 yen. Hyundai Motor rose 1.1 percent
to 180,000 won in Seoul trading.  Toyota’s gain last month helped Japanese and South Korean
auto brands boost their combined U.S. market share to 46.1
percent from 44.8 percent a year ago, according to Autodata.  Industrywide sales jumped 27 percent in February, led by
Detroit-based  General Motors Co .’s 46 percent increase.
Deliveries gained 14 percent at  Ford Motor Co . and 13 percent at
Chrysler LLC, according to Autodata. The U.S. companies also had
combined market share of 46.1 percent, Autodata said.  ‘Strong Numbers’  Light-vehicle sales in February ran at a seasonally
adjusted 13.4 million annual rate, according to Autodata. The
pace topped the 12.5 million average estimate of 10 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg and was the fastest since the 14.2 million
rate during the U.S. government’s “cash for clunkers” program
in August 2009.  “GM and Toyota stood out for the month, but there were
strong numbers across the board,” said  Jeff Schuster , director
of forecasting for researcher J.D. Power & Associates. “We’re
looking at an economy that continues to improve,  consumer
confidence  getting better, and you’re starting to see credit and
leasing improve from the end of last year.”  Toyota sold 141,846 vehicles to U.S. customers last month,
up from 100,027 a year earlier, it said. The company had an
“easy” comparison with last year as its sales were partially
halted in February 2010 because of recalls, said Jessica Caldwell, an analyst at Edmunds.com, an industry researcher in  Santa Monica .  The company’s gain beat the 27 percent average of four
analysts’ predictions compiled by Bloomberg.  Beating Estimates  Sales of Toyota’s Camry sedans, Corolla small cars and
Prius hybrids all rose by more than 50 percent.  With U.S. gasoline prices increasing toward $4 a gallon,
“the center of the industry” is moving toward a focus on fuel
economy, Carter said. That will be particularly beneficial to
demand for the Prius in the months ahead, he said. To capitalize
on that demand, Toyota will begin selling the Prius V wagon in
June, the first of a planned lineup of Prius models, he said.  Toyota’s market share was 14.3 percent last month, up from
12.8 percent a year ago.  Honda, fourth in U.S. auto sales, delivered 98,059 Honda
and Acura-brand vehicles in February, up from 80,671 a year ago,
the Tokyo-based company said. The average estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was for an increase of 12 percent.  Accord, CR-V  Gains for Honda were led by Accord and Civic cars and a 61
percent surge in sales of its CR-V crossover.  While the company’s volume grew, Honda’s market share for
the month fell 0.4 percentage point to 9.9 percent, according to
Autodata.  Sales of Nissan and Infiniti-brand vehicles rose to 92,370
from 70,189 a year earlier, the company said. The Yokohama,
Japan-based company’s 32 percent increase, led by Altima sedans
and Rogue, Murano and Juke crossovers, topped the 19 percent
average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Traffic was unbelievable” at dealerships last month,  Al Castignetti , vice president of U.S. Nissan brand sales, said in
an interview. “There seemed to be a lot of pent-up demand in
the Northeast because of all the snow they’d had.”  Nissan’s market share rose to 9.3 percent last month from 9
percent a year earlier, Autodata said.  Hyundai,  South Korea ’s largest automaker, said it boosted
sales 28 percent last month. The Sonata sedan and new Elantra
small car led gains for the Seoul-based company, surging more
than 100 percent and 54 percent.  Hyundai’s market share was 4.4 percent, unchanged from a
year earlier.    Kia Motors Corp ., Hyundai’s affiliate, had a 36 percent
gain for the month as it more than tripled sales of Sportage
crossovers and doubled deliveries of Optima sedans.  Subaru, the auto brand of Japan’s  Fuji Heavy Industries
Ltd ., said sales grew 20 percent.  Mazda Motor Corp .’s boosted
deliveries 14 percent, while  Mitsubishi Motors Corp . and  Suzuki
Motor Corp . had respective sales gains of 72 percent and 19
percent.  ---With assistance from Craig Trudell in  Detroit . Editors: Terje
Langeland, Ian Rowley  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at   kinoue@bloomberg.net  