-- 
Pemex May Sell as Much as $3 Billion in Overseas Bond Sales

-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-03-01T19:33:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/pemex-may-sell-as-much-as-3-billion-in-overseas-bond-sales.html
  Petroleos Mexicanos , the largest oil
producer in Latin America, may sell as much as $3 billion of
bonds in international markets this year to help refinance debt,
Chief Executive Officer  Juan Jose Suarez Coppel  said.  Pemex, as the state-owned company is known, will issue two
or three “big’’ bond sales for a total of about $3 billion,
Suarez Coppel said today in an interview in Mexico City. The
company won’t be able to do the sales before May, he said.  The Mexico City-based company plans to seek about $8
billion in bonds and loans in 2011, with about 80 percent of
that targeted for refinancing, the company said yesterday in a
stock exchange filing. Pemex may also sell as much as 10 billion
pesos ($824 million) of bonds on March 8 in the domestic market,
according to a Feb. 8 statement to  Mexico ´s stock exchange.  Total debt may rise to as much about $56 billion this year
as the company finances new investments, it said.  “We’re right now in a blackout and we cannot go out to the
market until May,’’ Suarez Coppel said.  Yesterday, the Mexican oil producer posted its third
consecutive quarterly loss. Pemex’s net loss narrowed to 26.04
billion pesos from 65.1 billion pesos a year earlier. Revenue
rose 10 percent to 343.1 billion pesos.  On Feb. 14, the Mexican government sold $1 billion of bonds
due January 2020 in international markets, its first foreign
debt sale since October. The securities yield the lowest of any
10-year dollar bond sale in Mexico’s history,  Gerardo Rodriguez ,
deputy finance minister said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  