-- 
Philippine Peso Rises on Speculation Central Bank to Allow Gain

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-03-01T08:27:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/philippine-peso-rises-on-speculation-central-bank-to-allow-gain.html
The Philippine peso rose to a one-
week high on speculation the central bank will tolerate gains to
damp inflation.  Gasoline and diesel prices increased today at some fuel
retailers, ABS-CBN Corp., the nation’s largest television
broadcaster, reported on its website. Inflation may have ranged
from 3 percent to 4.1 percent last month, central bank Governor
Amando Tetangco said on Feb. 25, citing higher oil and food
costs. The upper end of his projection would be the fastest
since May 2010.  “There is a view that central banks will allow currency
gains to contain inflation,” said Rafael Algarra, executive
vice president at Security Bank Corp. in Manila.  The peso climbed 0.3 percent to 43.445 per dollar as of 4
p.m. in Manila, the highest close since Feb. 21, according to
Tullett Prebon Plc. It was a third day of gains.  Consumer prices rose 3.7 percent in February, according to
the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey
before a government report due on March 4. Inflation accelerated
to 3.5 percent in January, the quickest in four months.    Government bonds  rose. The yield on the 6.25 percent note
due January 2014 fell eight basis points to 5.23 percent,
according to Tradition Financial Services.  The government’s offering of five- and 10-year bonds
targeted at individual investors ends today. Sales totaled 69
billion pesos ($1.6 billion) as of yesterday and issuance may be
75 billion pesos to 80 billion pesos, Deputy Treasurer Eduardo
Mendiola said.  The government will accept offers to build and upgrade
about 30 billion pesos of roads and railways as soon as this
month as it kick starts a $16 billion five-year development plan,
Economic Planning Undersecretary Rolando Tungpalan said
yesterday.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  James Regan  at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  