-- 
Philippines Says Oil Narrowing Scope to Hold Rate at Record Low

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-03-01T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/philippines-says-oil-narrowing-scope-to-hold-rate-at-record-low.html
The  Philippines  has less scope to
keep borrowing costs at a record low after oil and food costs
climbed, central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said.  “The scope for leaving policy rates unchanged has clearly
narrowed,” Tetangco, 58, said in an interview in his office in
Manila yesterday. “The inflation path now is moving closely to
the upper end of the target range. This underscores the need for
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas to closely monitor possible second-
round effects.” The next policy meeting is due on March 24.  Rising oil costs threaten to boost inflation in Asian
nations from the Philippines to South Korea that depend on
imported energy. The peso’s gain against the  U.S. dollar  trails
the rise in the currencies of Malaysia,  Singapore  and Thailand
over the past year, providing less of a buffer against global
price pressures.  The central bank’s inflation estimate has “somewhat
risen” from the Feb. 10 forecast of 4.4 percent this year and
3.5 percent for 2012, and the numbers will be reviewed again
this month, Tetangco said. The peso will probably trade in “a
narrower range” within the 42 per dollar to 45 per dollar level,
he said.  Benchmark three-year Philippine bond yields have risen 1.2
percentage points this year on inflation concerns. The
Philippine Stock Exchange Composite Index has declined 9.9
percent during the period. The peso has strengthened about 6
percent in the past 12 months, about half the pace of  Malaysia ’s
ringgit and behind the 10.6 percent rise in Singapore’s dollar
and the 7.2 percent gain in the Thai baht.  Rate Rise Expected  “That  interest rates  will go up is a given,” said Rafael Algarra, executive vice president at Security Bank Corp. in
Manila. “It’s a question of when and how much. The probability
that it could happen in March or in May has increased.”  The Philippines has kept the overnight borrowing rate
unchanged at 4 percent since July 2009, fueling the fastest
economic expansion in more than three decades in 2010 and
boosting demand for  Ayala Land Inc . homes and  Jollibee Foods
Corp . meals. In contrast, Malaysia led  Southeast Asia  in raising
borrowing costs while  Thailand  boosted its benchmark rate for
the fourth time in seven months in January.  The median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News in February was for Bangko Sentral to increase the
overnight borrowing rate by at least 0.25 percentage point next
quarter and to 4.75 percent by the end of the year.  ‘Act Preemptively’  “You would want to act preemptively. You don’t want to
wait until you have second-round effects setting in,” Tetangco
said. Using the reserve requirement as a policy tool is not a
priority “at this time,” he said.    Asia ’s policy makers are intensifying the battle against
inflation, with  Indonesia  last month raising its key rate for
the first time since October 2008.  China ,  India  and  South Korea 
have also lifted borrowing costs this year.  Philippine consumer price-growth may have quickened to a
nine-month high of 4.1 percent in February, led by food and oil
costs, Tetangco said Feb. 25. Inflation for this year and 2012
will average within the central bank’s 3 percent to 5 percent
target, he said yesterday.  “Developments around the world have resulted in higher
commodity prices and food prices continue to rise,” he said.  President Benigno Aquino is increasing government spending
to a record to expand the nation’s $161 billion economy by as
much as 8 percent annually starting this year.  Development Plan  The government will accept offers to build and upgrade
about 30 billion pesos ($691 million) of roads and railways as
soon as this month as it kick-starts a $16 billion five-year
development plan, Economic Planning Undersecretary Rolando Tungpalan said this week.  The president said in January that he will give Tetangco a
new six-year mandate when his term ends in July. Philippine
gross domestic product expanded 7.3 percent in 2010, the biggest
gain since 1976, boosted by business and consumer spending.  The nation’s “potential” for a credit-rating upgrade
“remains high,” Tetangco said. A 5 percent to 6 percent
economic growth rate is a “respectable level,” he said.  Turmoil in  Libya , holder of Africa’s largest oil reserves,
pushed crude for April delivery to $103.41 per barrel last week,
the highest since September 2008. Popular uprisings are
spreading across the Arab world after mass protests in Tunisia
and Egypt ousted their two long-serving presidents.  Oil is trading at less than $100 a barrel on assurances by
the U.S.,  Saudi Arabia  and International Energy Agency that they
can compensate for any disruption in Libya.  About half of the Philippines’ estimated 4 million overseas
workers are in the Middle East, Labor Secretary Rosalinda Baldoz
said on Feb. 25. The Gulf region accounts for about 30 percent
of overseas remittances, and Libya, Bahrain and Yemen make up
only about 0.8 percent to less than 2 percent, Tetangco said.  “But if the problem continues and spreads to the other
countries in the region, then there could be significant effects
on remittances,” the governor said. Filipinos abroad sent home
a record $18.8 billion in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net 
Karl Lester M. Yap in  Manila  at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  