-- 
Philippines Should Raise Rates in `Near Term' to Fend Off Costs, IMF Says

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-03-01T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/philippines-should-raise-rates-in-near-term-to-fend-off-costs-imf-says.html
The Philippine central bank should
start raising interest rates “in the near term” to fend off
inflation risks, the  International Monetary Fund  staff said.  The authorities’ decision to leave borrowing costs at a
record low “has been appropriate, but it remains important
going forward to respond proactively to price pressures,” IMF
economists wrote in their annual assessment of the country’s
policies, dated Jan. 18. “While inflation has been moderate so
far, pressures could build during 2011.”  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas  last month kept its benchmark
interest rate at 4 percent, a policy contrasting with an
intensifying battle against inflation elsewhere in  Asia  after
nations from  China  to Indonesia and Thailand raised borrowing
costs this year.  Since the report was written, Philippine inflation has
accelerated, “and that probably reinforces the case for
normalizing the monetary stance,” IMF mission chief Vivek Arora
said on a conference call today.  Inflation climbed in January to the highest level in four
months. Consumer prices increased 3.5 percent from a year
earlier, after a 3 percent gain in December, the  National
Statistics Office  in  Manila  said last month.  The IMF in the report said it expects inflation to average
3.9 percent this year compared with 3.8 percent in 2010.  The Washington-based IMF estimates that the country’s
economy will grow 5 percent this year from 7.3 percent in 2010.
The forecast for this year was raised from an estimate of 4.5
percent in October, Arora said.  With the peso “broadly in equilibrium” and international
reserves “at comfortable levels” the country should consider
greater exchange rate flexibility to deal with capital inflows
that are expected to continue, the IMF said in the report.  The report states that Philippine authorities “saw the
current monetary stance as being consistent with both low
inflation and economic expansion.” They said that they stood
ready to respond “proactively” if inflationary pressure
emerge, according to the IMF.  -- Editors: Kevin Costelloe,  Carlos Torres   To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 