-- 
Philippines' Scope to Hold Key Rate Has `Clearly Narrowed,' Tetangco Says

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-03-02T08:52:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/philippines-scope-to-hold-key-rate-has-clearly-narrowed-tetangco-says.html
The  Philippines  has less scope to
keep borrowing costs at a record low after oil and food costs
climbed, central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said after
holding interest rates at the same level since 2009.  “The scope for leaving policy rates unchanged has clearly
narrowed,” Tetangco, 58, said in an interview in his office in
Manila yesterday. “The inflation path now is moving closely to
the upper end of the target range. This underscores the need for
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas to closely monitor possible second-
round effects.”  Philippine stocks have slid more than those in any other
Southeast Asian market this year as the central bank hasn’t
joined its counterparts in boosting rates, even as rising oil
costs threaten to spur inflation from  Australia  to South Korea.
The peso’s gain against the dollar trails the rise in the
currencies of  Malaysia ,  Singapore  and  Thailand  over the past
year, providing less of a buffer against price pressures.  “That interest rates will go up is a given,” said Rafael Algarra, executive vice president at Security Bank Corp. in
Manila. “It’s a question of when and how much. The probability
that it could happen in March or in May has increased.”  The yield on the 6.25 percent bond due January 2014 climbed
as much as 18 basis points to 5.40 percent, rising the most
since Feb. 10, before trading at 5.3 percent as of 1:09 p.m.,
according to Tradition Financial Services. The peso fell 0.4
percent. The Philippine Stock Exchange Composite Index snapped a
three-day advance at the noon close.  IMF Recommendation  The Philippine central bank should start increasing  interest rates  “in the near term” to fend off inflation risks,
International Monetary Fund staff said. The next policy meeting
is due on March 24.  The authorities’ decision to leave borrowing costs at a
record low “has been appropriate, but it remains important
going forward to respond proactively to price pressures,” IMF
economists wrote in their annual assessment of the country’s
policies, dated Jan. 18. “While inflation has been moderate so
far, pressures could build during 2011.”  A rate increase may face opposition from government
officials, with Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima saying today
there is room to keep the benchmark rate unchanged because of
high unemployment and slack in the economy. Purisima is a member
of the central bank’s monetary board.  Inflation Risk  The central bank’s inflation estimate has “somewhat
risen” from the Feb. 10 forecast of 4.4 percent this year and
3.5 percent for 2012, and the numbers will be reviewed again
this month, Tetangco said. The peso will probably trade in “a
narrower range” this year within the 42 per dollar to 45 per
dollar level, he said.  Benchmark three-year Philippine bond yields have risen 1.3
percentage points this year on inflation concerns. The nation’s
stock index has declined 10.2 percent during the period. The
peso has strengthened about 6 percent in the past 12 months,
about half the pace of Malaysia’s ringgit and behind the 10.4
percent rise in Singapore’s dollar and the 7.2 percent gain in
the  Thai baht .  The Philippines has kept the overnight borrowing rate
unchanged at 4 percent since July 2009, fueling the fastest
economic expansion in more than three decades in 2010 and
boosting demand for  Ayala Land Inc . homes and  Jollibee Foods
Corp . meals. In contrast, Malaysia led  Southeast Asia  in raising
borrowing costs while Thailand boosted its benchmark rate for
the fourth time in seven months in January.  ‘Act Preemptively’  The median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News in February was for Bangko Sentral to increase the
overnight borrowing rate by at least 0.25 percentage point next
quarter and to 4.75 percent by the end of the year.  “You would want to act preemptively. You don’t want to
wait until you have second-round effects setting in,” Tetangco
said. Using the reserve requirement as a policy tool is not a
priority “at this time,” he said.    Asia ’s policy makers are intensifying the battle against
inflation, with  Indonesia  last month raising its key rate for
the first time since October 2008.  China ,  India  and  South Korea 
have also lifted borrowing costs this year.  Philippine consumer-price growth may have quickened to a
nine-month high of 4.1 percent in February, led by food and oil
costs, Tetangco said Feb. 25. Inflation for this year and 2012
will average within the central bank’s 3 percent to 5 percent
target, he said yesterday.    Government Spending   “Developments around the world have resulted in higher
commodity prices and food prices continue to rise,” he said.  President Benigno Aquino is increasing government spending
to a record to expand the nation’s $161 billion economy by as
much as 8 percent annually starting this year.  The government will accept offers to build and upgrade
about 30 billion pesos ($691 million) of roads and railways as
soon as this month as it kick-starts a $16 billion five-year
development plan, Economic Planning Undersecretary Rolando Tungpalan said this week.  The president said in January that he will give Tetangco a
new six-year mandate when his term ends in July. Philippine
gross domestic product expanded 7.3 percent in 2010, the biggest
gain since 1976, boosted by business and consumer spending.  The nation’s “potential” for a credit-rating upgrade
“remains high,” Tetangco said. A 5 percent to 6 percent
economic growth rate is a “respectable level,” he said.    Libya  Turmoil  Turmoil in Libya, holder of  Africa ’s largest oil reserves,
pushed crude for April delivery to $103.41 per barrel last week,
the highest since September 2008. Popular uprisings are
spreading across the Arab world after mass protests in Tunisia
and  Egypt  ousted their two long-serving presidents.  About half of the Philippines’ estimated 4 million overseas
workers are in the Middle East, Labor Secretary Rosalinda Baldoz
said on Feb. 25. The Gulf region accounts for about 30 percent
of overseas remittances, and Libya, Bahrain and Yemen make up
only about 0.8 percent to less than 2 percent, Tetangco said.  “But if the problem continues and spreads to the other
countries in the region, then there could be significant effects
on remittances,” the governor said. Filipinos abroad sent home
a record $18.8 billion in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at   cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Lester M. Yap in  Manila  at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  