-- 
Polish Central Bank May Leave Rates Unchanged as Inflation Pressure Eases

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-03-01T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/polish-central-bank-may-leave-rates-unchanged-as-inflation-pressure-eases.html
  Poland ’s central bank will probably
leave borrowing costs unchanged today as rising unemployment and
slowing retail sales eased concerns that consumer demand will
stoke inflation.  The Monetary Policy Council in Warsaw will leave the
benchmark seven-day rate unchanged at 3.75 percent, according to
19 of 30 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Eleven expect an
increase to 4 percent. The central bank, which didn’t hold a
rate meeting last month, will comment on the decision at a 4
p.m. press conference in Warsaw.  Policy makers in January raised the benchmark rate for the
first time since June 2008 to battle accelerating consumer-price
increases.  Narodowy Bank Polski  Governor  Marek Belka  on Feb. 21
said the 10-member rate panel’s response to inflation will be
“moderate” as long as wage pressure remains mild.  “Belka doesn’t seem to be scared by the recent spike in
inflation,” Ernest Pytlarczyk, chief economist at BRE Bank in
Warsaw, wrote in a Feb. 25 research note. Output and retail
sales are growing too slowly to suggest domestic demand is
fueling inflation, he said, while January’s annual wage growth
of 5 percent “didn’t show the economy might face second-round
effects in the near future.”  Scaled Down  Forward-rate agreements used to lock in interest costs
through August indicate Polish rates will rise by 0.7 percentage
point, based on the difference between the six-month contract
and the three-month Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate to which it
settles. Six-month forwards declined 10 basis points to 4.86
percent since Feb. 21 as investors scaled down their
expectations for rate increases following Belka’s comments.  The zloty traded at 3.9764 per euro at 7:01 p.m. yesterday
in Warsaw. The currency has weakened 0.3 percent this year.  Poland followed  Hungary  in restricting monetary policy.
Rate setters in Budapest raised borrowing costs three times
since November before pausing the tightening cycle last month.
The Czech central bank has kept its main rate unchanged at a
record low for the past year as it weighs inflation risks
against the danger of hampering economic recovery.  Polish inflation exceeded the upper end of the central
bank’s targeted range in January, rising to a 3.8 percent, the
highest in 20 months.  No ‘Cascade’  The January rate increase, which showed monetary policy
makers will act to curb inflation, shouldn’t be taken as
heralding a “cascade of hikes” in coming months because the
pickup in inflation is being caused by external shocks, Belka
said last week.  Producer prices rose 6.2 percent in January from a year
earlier, the fastest annual pace since May 2004 as crude  oil
prices  rose to the highest in more than two-year high because of
the unrest in the Middle East.  The  unemployment rate  rose to 13 percent in January.
Retail-sales growth slowed more than economists expected, to an
annual 5.8 percent from 12 percent in December. The median
estimate of 20 economists in a Bloomberg survey was 8.5 percent.  Central bankers in Warsaw may also hold off on raising  interest rates  to avoid harming economic growth, according to
Aleksandra Swiatkowska, an economist at PKO BP in Warsaw.  Manufacturing-industry growth slowed in February to a six-
month low on new orders, a survey by  Markit Economics  showed
yesterday. The purchasing managers’ index, a gauge of
manufacturing, fell to 53.8 from 55.6 in January.  “The main argument against increasing rates is the risk of
a negative impact on fixed investment, as  capital expenditures 
on machinery and equipment probably fell in the fourth quarter
for the eighth quarter in a row,” Swiatkowska said by phone.  The investment figures will be published at 10 a.m. by the
Warsaw-based  Central Statistical Office  with fourth-quarter
gross domestic product data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  