-- 
PPL Said to Be Near $6 Billion Takeover of E.ON's U.K. Grid, Beating CKI

-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-03-01T21:22:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/ppl-is-said-to-be-near-agreement-for-6-billion-takeover-of-e-on-u-k-grid.html
  PPL Corp ., owner of Pennsylvania’s
second-largest utility, is nearing an agreement to buy  E.ON AG ’s
U.K. power grid for about $6 billion in cash after beating an
offer from Li Ka-Shing’s  Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings
Ltd ., said two people familiar with the matter.  A deal may be announced as soon as today, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the talks are private. The
grid had also drawn interest from Warren Buffett’s MidAmerican
Energy Holdings Co. and U.K. network operator  National Grid Plc ,
people familiar with the matter said last month.  The acquisition would mark PPL’s second purchase of assets
from Dusseldorf-based E.ON in less than a year. The company,
based in Allentown, Pennsylvania, agreed last April to buy two
U.S. utilities from E.ON for $6.7 billion. E.ON,  Germany ’s
largest utility, is selling assets as it seeks to raise 15
billion euros ($21 billion) by the end of 2013 to cut debt and
fund international expansion.  PPL’s reported interest in E.ON’s grid may have weighed on
its stock price because of uncertainty about how much the
company would pay and how it might finance the deal, said  Paul Patterson , a New York-based analyst at Glenrock Associates.  “Whenever you have a potential acquisition, people get
concerned about the financial implications of that,” Patterson
said.  Rebecca Middleton, a spokeswoman for E.ON, declined to
comment. George Biechler, a spokesman for PPL, also declined to
comment.  PPL’s U.K. Unit  PPL already owns a  U.K. grid unit  with 83,000 kilometers
(50,000 miles) of  power lines  that serve 2.6 million customers
in south  Wales  and southwest England, according to its website.
The company bought a 25 percent stake in the unit in 1996 and
acquired the rest in 2002 from Mirant Corp.  Chief Executive Officer James Miller has wanted to increase
PPL’s earnings from regulated assets. The company said on Feb. 4
it expects reduced profits at its unregulated unit this year as
slack demand and low natural gas prices squeeze power margins.  PPL fell 53 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $24.90 at 4:01 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. PPL is the worst
performer for the past year among the 13 members of Standard &
Poor’s electric utilities index.  E.ON’s American depositary receipts, which are equal to one
ordinary share, fell 75 cents, or 2.3 percent, to $32.10 at 3:59
p.m.  PPL has about 19,000 megawatts of generating capacity in
the U.S. and distributes electricity and natural gas to about
5.2 million customers in the U.S. and U.K., according to the
company’s  website .  E.ON has said it plans to invest about half the proceeds
from its asset sales in growth outside  Europe , Russia, and the
U.S. and the remainder in reducing debt after it snapped up
power plants and clients from Spain to Siberia.  Exelon Corp. owns the largest utility in  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey St.Onge at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net  