-- 
Protesters Rally in Columbus Against Union-Bargaining Bill

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-03-01T20:01:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/protesters-rally-in-columbus-against-union-bargaining-bill.html
The largest crowd yet to protest an  Ohio  bill limiting collective-bargaining rights for public
employees gathered at the Statehouse in Columbus as a Senate
committee began considering possible amendments.  An estimated 8,500 people came to the Statehouse today,
including about 7,700 outside where speakers were addressing the
crowd and bands were performing, according to Gregg Dodd, the
Statehouse spokesman. It’s the largest demonstration so far in
Ohio related to the bill, he said.  Senators’ offices are receiving calls and e-mails on both
sides of the debate, said Jason Mauk, a spokesman for Senate
Republicans. He wasn’t able to provide an exact count for the
messages to legislators.  “This is the democratic process at work,” Mauk said in an
interview. “We don’t take it for granted.”  The  Center on Policy & Budget Priorities  projects that
states face total  deficits  of $125 billion, and Republican
governors including Ohio’s John Kasich, Wisconsin’s  Scott Walker 
and  New Jersey ’s  Chris Christie  are trying to change rules for
collective bargaining and worker contributions for health care
and pensions. In  Wisconsin , Walker’s bill has prompted days of
protests at the Capitol in Madison.  The governors say the changes will enable state and local
governments to manage budget cuts. Critics say the efforts are
“union busting.”  Ohio Bill Proposals  The Ohio bill would allow state and local government
workers to bargain for wages only and eliminate binding
arbitration in contract disputes. It also would replace salary
schedules with merit pay, require workers to pay at least 20
percent of their health-care costs and prohibit governments from
paying any part of employees’ share of pension costs.  The Senate Insurance, Commerce and Labor Committee began
considering possible changes to the bill today, including
prohibiting strikes by all public employees and allowing a fact-
finder to intervene in a negotiating impasse.  State Senator Kevin Bacon, the committee chairman, told
reporters the panel would debate the changes during another
hearing tomorrow and possibly vote on the measure. A vote by the
full Senate, which Republicans control by a 23-10 margin over
Democrats, could follow quickly after that, he said.  ‘Bad Bill’  Bacon said that he doesn’t expect all Republicans to vote
for the bill but that he has the votes needed to pass the bill
out of committee.  Senate Democrats haven’t had a chance to review the
proposed changes, though they would rather try to kill the bill
than amend it, said Senator Capri Cafaro, the minority leader.  “You can’t amend a bad bill,” Cafaro said in an
interview.  An analysis released Feb. 27 by Kasich’s administration
concluded that had the bill under consideration been in effect
during the 2010 fiscal year, Ohio would have saved at least an
estimated $216.9 million. Local governments would have saved at
least an estimated $1.1 billion, the analysis by the  Ohio
department of administrative services  said.  A separate study released yesterday showed that under
existing collective-bargaining rules, Ohio’s kindergarten,
elementary, middle-school and high-school teachers saw their
salaries decrease an average of 3.8 percent between 2008 and
2009. That compares with the average of a 2 percent increase for
teachers nationwide, said the study by Innovation Ohio, a newly
formed group in Columbus led by Janetta King, the policy
director for former Democratic Ohio Governor Ted Strickland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in  New York  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  