-- 
Libya's Military Spending Below Sweden's Leaves Qaddafi Authority Deficit

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-03-02T12:59:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/qaddafi-military-spending-below-sweden-s-leaves-authority-gap.html
In a region with a history of rulers
who strengthened their armies to keep a grip on power,  Muammar Qaddafi  has been doing the opposite.  Qaddafi spent an average 1.2 percent of gross domestic
product on the military in the three years through 2008, the
lowest in the Middle East and North  Africa  and also less than
Sweden or  Denmark , according to the  Stockholm International
Peace Research Institute  or Sipri, which tracks defense
spending. Before it was split by an uprising that started last
month, Libya’s army had 50,000 men, half of them draftees,
according to the  International Institute for Strategic Studies .  The cap on army powers helped ensure Qaddafi, who gained
power in a 1969 coup, didn’t lose it the same way. It also
leaves Libya’s army lacking the capacity to contain civil strife
and oversee a transition, as its counterparts in  Egypt  and
Tunisia have done, or to secure production from Africa’s largest
oil reserves. Military weakness also makes it harder for the
U.S. and allies, who are backing the anti-Qaddafi rebels, to
find interlocutors.  “Qaddafi tried to keep the military weak so they could not
topple him, as he toppled King Idris,” said  Paul Sullivan , a
North Africa expert at the Washington-based National Defense
University. The result is “a poorly trained military run by
poorly trained leadership that are on the ropes, not exactly
personally stable, and with a lot of extra weapons floating
around.”  Rebel Control  Since anti-government protests escalated into violence two
weeks ago, rebels have taken control of much of Libya and
several army units defected. Crude prices have jumped more than
15 percent, hitting a 2 1/2-year high. Libyan production dropped
more than half as companies such as  Eni SpA  and Total SA cut
output, and the conflict threatened exports as workers fled.  In Benghazi, the second-biggest city, soldiers were
directing traffic and stopping cars for armed Qaddafi supporters
last week. On the opposition-held eastern coastal road, which
passes by the tanker terminals of Ras Lanouf and el-Brega,
troops flashed victory signs and passed out candies and juice.  Other units have stayed loyal, including air crews who have
bombed ammunition stores to prevent weapons from getting into
rebel hands.  ‘Why the Splinters?’  “Why the splinters? Why the defections?” said Fawaz Gerges, a professor of Middle East politics at the  London School 
of Economics. “It tells you that there is no cohesive
institution.”  The lack of cohesion contrasts with the army’s role in
Egypt and  Tunisia . In both countries, the military acted as a
catalyst for the removal of leaders, a key demand of opposition
movements, while discouraging continued protests aimed at more
far-reaching democratic change.  Egypt’s military took over from  Hosni Mubarak  on Feb. 11,
promising elections and a new constitution. Tunisian army chief
Rashid Ammar pledged to “protect the revolution.” The armies
took over functions from police discredited by their links to
former rulers, with soldiers guarding key buildings from
ministries in Tunis to the state broadcaster in Cairo.  Libya’s military spending plunged as relations with the West
improved in the past decade, according to data from Sipri and
the U.S. State Department’s  World Military Expenditures and Arms
Transfers  report.  Rapprochement With West  In 2008, spending was $833 million, according to the State
Department. It was down from $2 billion in 1998 and $6.85
billion in 1986, the year Libya was bombed by the U.S. in
retaliation for an attack in a Berlin disco. United Nations
sanctions on  Libya  were lifted in 1999 and the rapprochement
gathered speed after 2003, when Qaddafi said he renounced
terrorism and nuclear technology.  Sipri estimates average defense outlays at 4.4 percent of
GDP in the three years through 1999, dropping to 1.2 percent in
the period through 2008. The latter figure compares with 2.5
percent in Egypt and 8.6 percent in  Saudi Arabia .  U.S. diplomats said Libya’s “aging  air force ” was on
“full display” when a plane crashed at the Libyan Aviation
Exhibition in October 2009, according to a cable from the U.S.
Embassy in Tripoli that month, released by Wikileaks.org. It
said the incident showed the “weaknesses of Libya’s military
air fleet.”  Tribes, Sons, Mercenaries  Tribal divisions within Libya’s army may have accelerated
its fragmentation. Many soldiers come from tribes such as the
Warfalla and Magariha whose loyalty to Qaddafi is questionable,
while the air force, dominated by Qaddafi’s native Qadhafa
tribe, remains more loyal, according to Sullivan.  Qaddafi focused resources on equipment and facilities,
instead of personnel and training, the IISS said. Egypt has 1
million fighters and reservists, or about 12.5 people under arms
per 1,000 of population compared with 7.8 in Libya, according to
the IISS study.  Money withheld from the traditional military was put into
special forces led by Qaddafi’s sons Saif al-Islam, Motassim and
Khamees, said Mohammed El-Katiri, an analyst at the New York-
based Eurasia Group, which measures political risk. Payoffs also
went to mercenaries and tribes, though the lack of transparency
makes it impossible to say how much was spent, he said.  The Libyan leader “doesn’t have confidence in his own army
and police,” Nouri el-Mismari, Qaddafi’s former protocol chief,
said at a press conference in Paris today. “That’s why he hired
the mercenaries.”  Sarkozy Contracts  Between 2005 and 2008, Libya signed about $1 billion in
arms transfer agreements with Western European countries, as
well as $300 million with  Russia , according to the  Congressional
Research Service , a division of the  Library of Congress .  When Qaddafi visited  Nicolas Sarkozy  in Paris in December
2007, an aide to the French president said talks included
potential arms sales worth 4.5 billion euros ($6.2 billion).  They included 14 Rafale fighter jets, which are built by
Dassault Aviation SA, as well as helicopters, ships, combat
vehicles and artillery, the official said.  Talks on the sale of Rafale fighter jets never resulted in
a sale, said Mathieu Durand, a spokesman for Dassault. In 2009,
Libya received 100 Milan anti-tank missiles, made by a unit of
European Aeronautic, Defense & Space Co. and worth 168 million
euros, according to Sipri.  Who to Help?  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  has held talks with
European counterparts on imposing a no-fly zone over Libya, and
said this week that the U.S. is willing to support anti-Qaddafi
forces.  Rebels fighting against Qaddafi’s government are discussing
whether to ask for United Nations airstrikes, the New York Times
reported, citing unidentified people with knowledge of the
deliberations. The rebel council isn’t seeking “foreign
intervention,” the newspaper said.  The best option for countries seeking to oust Qaddafi may
be to emulate his strategy of backing individuals not
institutions, said Barak Seener, a research fellow at the  Royal
United Services Institute  for Defense and Security Studies in  London .  That would involve an effort “to engage with specific
military and tribal leaders that are openly opposed to Qaddafi
by offering them financial incentives, weapons and logistical
support,” he said. “The same way that Qaddafi did to secure
their support throughout the decades.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 