-- 
Railroad Yield Gap Hits Six-Month High as Debt Sales Mount: China Credit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-02T02:25:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/railway-yield-gap-at-six-month-high-as-sales-rise-china-credit.html
  China ’s state-owned railroad is
increasing debt sales by 50 percent, driving yield premiums on
its bonds to the highest levels in more than six months, as the
world’s biggest high-speed network is rolled out.  The yield on the railway ministry’s 3.88 percent September
2020 bonds exceeded the rate for similar-maturity government
notes by 115 basis points yesterday, almost double the 59-point
gap when the security began trading in September, according to
Chinabond prices. China’s No. 1 corporate debt issuer sold 30
billion yuan ($4.6 billion) of notes in the past two months,
more than the combined sales of its counterparts in India and  Russia  for the whole of 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “A lot of investors believe the ministry’s debt is too
much,” said Fan Wei, a Beijing-based senior vice president of
fixed income at Hong Yuan Securities Co., a unit of the nation’s
sovereign wealth fund. “Railway construction is still going to
expand a lot and huge debt financing will continue in 2011.”  Spending on China’s railways totaled 1.42 trillion yuan
over the last two years, 33 percent more than was invested in
the previous five, and the government predicts a further 700
billion yuan will be used to fund construction in 2011. Three-
year debt issued by the ministry handed investors a loss of 3.2
percent this year, while similar-maturity notes from OAO Russian
Railways delivered a return of 1.3 percent. Indian Railway
Finance Corp.’s January 2014 bonds lost 1.1 percent.  U.S. Railroad Defaults  Investors looking into the history of rail expansion have
reason to be concerned about China’s growth, which will result
in the nation having almost as much high-speed track by the end
of next year as the entire rest of the world. Railroads led a
collapse in the U.S. corporate bond market in the late 1800s
after a flood of defaults on debt sold to extend networks into
the American West.  China replaced Minister of Railways Liu Zhijun after the
ruling Communist Party said he was under investigation for
“severe” disciplinary violations, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported Feb. 25. Liu is accused of accepting bribes,
according to a Xinhua report on Feb. 12. Zhang Shuguang was
removed as deputy chief engineer and placed under investigation
for alleged “severe violation of discipline,” Xinhua reported
today, citing the ministry.  The ministry’s 3.88 percent bonds due September 2020
yielded 5.1 percent yesterday, the most since the notes were
issued in September, according to Chinabond prices. Its 5.6
percent November 2017 debt yielded 4.76 percent. The latter’s
premium over similar-maturity  government bonds  reached 99 basis
points on Feb. 24, the biggest gap since July 15.  The 3.6 percent September 2020 bonds sold by Burlington
Northern  Santa Fe , the railroad bought by  Berkshire Hathaway Inc .
last year, yielded 4.12 percent yesterday, according to Trace,
the bond price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Short-Term Debt  The Chinese railway ministry’s liabilities were equivalent
to $198 billion at the end of 2009, with debt levels at 38
percent of assets, the latest data show. The debt-to-asset ratio
is higher than the 16 percent for state-owned Russian Railways,
and lower than the 82 percent for Indian Railway Finance Corp.,
the funding arm of India’s rail ministry.  Russian Railways sold the equivalent of $2.2 billion of
debt last year, while Indian Railway Finance Corp. issued $1.5
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. China’s
railway ministry sold $26.7 billion of notes.  “Investors in Ministry of Railways debt should be worried
about its debt situation,” said Li Xuerong, a Shenzhen-based
research analyst at  CIConsulting , an industry research firm.
“The main thing for investors to consider is the risk of not
being able to pay its debt in the short term.”  Long-Term Capital  The ministry has 538 billion yuan of bonds maturing by the
end of 2036, of which 101 billion is due by the end of this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The proportion of
“short-term” bonds increased to 49 percent of the total last
year from 18 percent in 2009, according to China International
Capital Corp.  “Railways need long-term capital to invest in long-term
projects,” said Xu Xiaoqing, the Beijing-based head of fixed-
income research at CICC. “Selling short-term bonds is a
temporary method until the government injects capital into the
railways.”  The ministry, which is supposed to be financially self
sufficient, has already received injections of government
capital, according to Ji Jiangfan, a CICC fixed-income analyst.
Its net assets increased by about 300 billion yuan in the first
three quarters of last year, Ji said, which couldn’t have been
due to profit alone. Wang Yongping, a spokesman for the ministry
in Beijing, couldn’t be reached for comment.  ‘Self-Financing’  “Aside from a few rail investments of national importance,
the Ministry of Railways is self-financing,” said John Scales,
transport coordinator for China at the  World Bank  in Beijing.
“Nonetheless, we should remember that the Ministry of Railways
is part of the national government and the risk that the
national government will allow the ministry to fail is low.”  The government stepped in previously to support the
nation’s banks. State asset-management companies in 1999 started
buying around 1.4 trillion yuan of bad loans from the nation’s
four biggest lenders, a legacy of decades of government-directed
lending to unprofitable state-owned enterprises.  Over the next five years China will spend as much as 3.5
trillion yuan on railway construction and 750 billion yuan on
rolling stock, according to Macquarie Group Ltd. estimates. Some
2 trillion yuan is being spent to create a 16,000 kilometer
high-speed rail network by 2020 and more than 7,000 kilometers
of track has already been laid, with a further 6,000 kilometers
scheduled to open by the end of next year.  ‘Debt Crisis’  The “blind pursuit” of high-speed rail is “highly likely
to develop into a debt crisis,” wrote Zhao Jian, a professor of
economics at Beijing Jiaotong University, in an April 2010
commentary in the China Daily newspaper.  The Beijing-based railway ministry has sold the equivalent
of $339 billion of debt since January 1997, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Indian Railway Finance Corp. raised $11.4
billion-equivalent since March 1996, while Russian Railways has
sold $10.6 billion since December 2004, the data show.  Five-year credit default swaps on Chinese government debt
are 7.5 basis points higher this year on concern three interest
rate rises in four months may threaten economic growth. The
central bank raised  reserve requirements  for lenders on Feb. 18
just 10 days after boosting rates. The contracts fell half a
basis point to 75 basis points yesterday, CMA prices in New York
show.  Bond Yield Rises  Credit-default swaps are used to insure debt against
default and traders use them to speculate on  credit quality . An
increase suggests deteriorating perceptions of creditworthiness
and a drop shows improvement. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The yield on China’s 2.68 percent government bond due in
November 2013 rose one basis point to 3.333 percent yesterday,
Chinabond prices show. One-year interest-rate swaps, or the
fixed cost needed to receive the floating seven-day repurchase
rate, fell one basis point to 3.7575 percent as of 9:57 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yuan was little changed against the  U.S. dollar  this
morning. Indicative bid prices for the currency were at 6.5728
per dollar as of 9:33 a.m. in Shanghai versus 6.5700 the
previous trading day, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trading System. Offer prices were indicated at 6.5730 per dollar,
versus 6.5705 the previous day.  Forwards Gain  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.1 percent to
6.412 as of 10:01 a.m. in Shanghai, reflecting bets the currency
will strengthen 2.5 percent in one year’s time, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s railways ministry sold 10 billion yuan of 180-day
notes priced to yield 3.92 percent on Feb. 22, just a week after
issuing debt with identical terms, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “You wouldn’t expect a lot of these projects to repay the
principal within 20 years,” said Richard Bullock, a railway
consultant to the World Bank office in Beijing. “Particularly
when it takes five years to build in the first place.”  -  Henry Sanderson . With assistance from David Yong in  Singapore .
Editors:  James Regan , Hugh Chow  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  