-- 
RBA Keeps Key Interest Rate Unchanged, Extending Pause as Inflation Eases

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-03-01T03:48:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/rba-keeps-interest-rates-unchanged-extending-pause-after-inflation-eases.html
The  Reserve Bank  of Australia left
its benchmark interest rate at the highest level in the
developed world, saying a stronger currency and an earlier
decline in wage growth are helping to contain inflation.  Governor Glenn Stevens held the overnight cash rate target
at 4.75 percent today, as forecast by all 25 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. The central bank expects inflation to stay
within its target range of 2 percent to 3 percent over the next
year, he said in a statement in Sydney.  “Inflation is consistent with the medium-term objective of
monetary policy,” Stevens said. “These moderate outcomes are
being assisted by the high level of the  exchange rate , the
earlier decline in wages growth and strong competition in some
key markets, which have worked to offset large rises in
utilities prices.”  The RBA, which raised rates seven times from October 2009
to November last year, is favoring growth over containing prices
as the country recovers from flooding and cyclones in the
northeast.  Australia ’s economic growth probably accelerated to
0.6 percent last quarter, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 25 economists before a report tomorrow.  The Australian dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, touched a record $1.0256 on Dec. 31 and is about 13
percent stronger than a year ago. The currency weakened after
the announcement, trading at $1.0170 as of 2:46 p.m. in Sydney
from $1.0185 before the release.  Flood Damage  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said Feb. 8 that damage from floods
and cyclones may cause first-quarter gross domestic product to
contract. Economists’ forecasts ahead of tomorrow’s GDP report
on the fourth quarter of 2010 range from a 0.3 percent expansion
to a 1 percent increase.  “Production losses due to weather are temporarily raising
prices for some agricultural produce, but these should fall back
later in the year,” Stevens said. He also said reports of skill
shortages “remain confined, at this point, to the resources and
related sectors.”  Most leading indicators suggest “further growth in
employment, though most likely at a slower pace,” Stevens said.
“After the significant decline in 2009, growth in wages has
returned to rates seen prior to the downturn.”  Wages Growth  Data in recent days have shown Australian wages grew at the
fastest annual pace in almost two years and business investment
reached a record as Chinese and Indian demand for commodities
capped a year of unprecedented job growth.  “Consumer austerity and the drag from January’s floods
have kept the RBA sidelined since November, but the looming wall
of income and investment suggests to us that consumer austerity
won’t last,” said  Stephen Walters , chief economist for
Australia at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney. “We suspect RBA
officials will want to stay in front of the boom and, therefore,
will hike before midyear, most likely in May.”  Stevens is relying on lower household spending and higher
savings to slow price gains and give him scope to delay rate
increases. Investors bet there is a 52 percent chance he will
raise borrowing costs in August, bank bill futures indicate.  Australian consumer prices advanced 0.4 percent in the
fourth quarter from three months earlier, the slowest pace in
almost two years, as a stronger currency lowered costs for
household appliances, clothing and cars from abroad.  Currency’s Ascent  The currency’s surge has been propelled by demand for  iron
ore  and coal from Australia’s biggest trading partner, China,
which has raised rates three times since mid-October. A Feb. 15
report showed  China ’s inflation exceeded the government’s 2011
target for a fourth month.  Stevens has kept Australia’s overnight cash rate target
unchanged in the three meetings since a quarter percentage-point
increase in November. In testimony to a parliamentary panel last
month, he signaled the RBA was comfortable with borrowing costs.  “We’re ahead of the game, which is where you want to be,
and that’s the thing that affords you periods of sitting,
waiting and watching,” the governor told lawmakers in Canberra
on Feb. 11. “Sometimes, they can be reasonably lengthy
periods.”  Driven up by mining jobs, wages grew 3.9 percent in the
three months through December from a year earlier, the fastest
pace since the first quarter of 2009, a Feb. 23 government
report showed. The gap between the RBA’s weighted median measure
of inflation and the annual wage price index is the widest in
six years.  Resources Boom  BG Group Plc, based in Reading, U.K., said Oct. 31 it will
begin work on a $15 billion liquefied natural gas venture in
Queensland, generating 5,000 jobs. BG, Chevron Corp., Royal
Dutch Shell Plc and ConocoPhillips are among companies investing
about A$200 billion ($203.7 billion) in proposed LNG projects in
Australia.  Australia is getting caught up in a bubble in international
commodity prices and property markets in  Asia  that could hit
much harder than the global financial crisis, Warwick McKibbin,
a member of the RBA’s board, told the Australian newspaper in an
article published yesterday.  “This is shaping to be much bigger than 2004 to 2007,”
the newspaper cited McKibbin, a professor at  Australian National
University , as saying. He warned the bursting of the bubble
would reverse the surge in Australia’s terms of trade, push down
the currency and leave the RBA struggling to fight rising global
inflation pressures.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  