-- 
RBA's Signal Inflation Is Contained Reflects `Sanguine' Outlook on Prices

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-03-01T13:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/rba-s-sanguine-stance-on-inflation-may-downplay-price-threat.html
The  Reserve Bank  of Australia’s
signal that inflation is under control shows a “sanguine”
attitude about the outlook for consumer prices, according to
economists at Citigroup Inc. and HSBC Holdings Plc.  RBA Governor Glenn Stevens left the overnight cash rate
target at 4.75 percent for a third straight meeting yesterday
and said inflation “over the year ahead will continue to be
consistent with” a target of 2 percent to 3 percent.  The risk in Stevens’s focus on growth over inflation is
that the local currency’s rise abates and wages surge in an
economy with 5 percent unemployment. Bond investors have raised
bets on higher inflation as the labor market approaches full
employment and companies increase investment to meet demand from
India and  China  for iron ore and energy resources.  “We are less sanguine on the inflation outlook,” said
Paul Bloxham, chief economist at HSBC in Sydney and former RBA
official. “Global inflation is rising, the housing market is
tight, electricity prices are rising, wages growth is picking
up, we expect the consumer to become less ‘cautious’ and think
inflation has been held down by an unrepeated exchange-rate
appreciation.”  One-year inflation swaps show traders betting that consumer
prices will climb 3.46 percent as of 5:56 p.m. in Sydney
yesterday. The swaps have risen 53 basis points since December,
heading for the biggest quarterly gain since September 2009.  CPI’s Advance  Australian consumer prices advanced 0.4 percent in the
fourth quarter from three months earlier, the slowest pace in
almost two years. Data to be released later today may show the
economy accelerated at the end of last year.  Prices have been contained partly by gains in the
Australian dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded currency, which
touched a record $1.0256 on Dec. 31 and is about 13 percent
stronger than a year ago. It was on track to fall for the first
time in five days, trading at $1.0169 at 5:18 p.m. yesterday
from $1.0185 before the central bank’s announcement.  In his statement yesterday, Stevens made no mention of
oil’s recent rise above $100 a barrel or unrest in the Middle
East that threatens to disrupt energy supplies. Also absent from
the RBA’s announcement yesterday was a mention of sovereign
credit risks from some countries in  Europe  -- a concern that was
mentioned in the Feb. 1 statement.  “What was more interesting was what the RBA statement did
not discuss -- higher  oil prices , global inflation, and
uncertainty in the Middle East,” said Su-Lin Ong, senior
economist at  RBC Capital Markets  in Sydney.  Wage Pressure  Australian wages in the fourth quarter rose at the fastest
annual pace in almost two years and the gap between the RBA’s
weighted median measure of inflation and the annual wage price
vindex is the widest in six years.  “Inflation is consistent with the medium-term objective of
monetary policy,” Stevens said. “These moderate outcomes are
being assisted by the high level of the  exchange rate , the
earlier decline in wages growth and strong competition in some
key markets, which have worked to offset large rises in
utilities prices.”  Crude-oil futures last month reached $103.41 a barrel, the
highest level since September 2008.  In China, Australia’s largest export market, “cost-driven
inflation pressure is still large,” the China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing logistics federation said in a
statement yesterday. Upward pressure on consumer prices “is
still significant,” the federation said, citing a drought in
China, the impact of Middle East turmoil on oil and liquidity
injections by the U.S. Federal Reserve.  ‘Too Sanguine’  “The RBA may be too sanguine on the inflation outlook,”
said  Joshua Williamson , a senior economist at Citigroup Inc. in
Sydney.    Australia ’s economy accelerated 0.7 percent last quarter
from three months earlier, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 25 economists. The government’s report
on fourth-quarter gross domestic product is scheduled to be
released at 11:30 a.m. today.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said Feb. 8 that damage from floods
and cyclones may cause first-quarter GDP to contract. Stevens
yesterday said the flood effects would be short-lived.  “Production losses due to weather are temporarily raising
prices for some agricultural produce, but these should fall back
later in the year,” the RBA governor said. He also said reports
of skill shortages “remain confined, at this point, to the
resources and related sectors.”  Consumer Restraint  Stevens is relying on lower household spending and higher
savings to slow price gains and give him scope to delay rate
increases.  Investors bet there is a 50 percent chance he will raise
borrowing costs in August, bank bill futures indicate.  Most leading indicators suggest “further growth in
employment, though most likely at a slower pace,” Stevens said.
“After the significant decline in 2009, growth in wages has
returned to rates seen prior to the downturn.”  The currency’s surge has been propelled by demand for  iron
ore  and coal from Australia’s biggest trading partner, China,
which has raised rates three times since mid-October. A Feb. 15
report showed China’s inflation exceeded the government’s 2011
target for a fourth month.  BG Group Plc, based in Reading, U.K., said Oct. 31 it will
begin work on a $15 billion liquefied natural gas venture in
Queensland, generating 5,000 jobs. BG, Chevron Corp., Royal
Dutch Shell Plc and ConocoPhillips are among companies investing
about A$200 billion in proposed LNG projects in Australia.  Stevens last raised the overnight cash rate target in
November, boosting it a quarter percentage point. In testimony
to a parliamentary panel last month, he signaled the RBA was
comfortable with borrowing costs.  “We’re ahead of the game, which is where you want to be,
and that’s the thing that affords you periods of sitting,
waiting and watching,” the governor told lawmakers in Canberra
on Feb. 11. “Sometimes, they can be reasonably lengthy
periods.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  