-- 
Treasury Bailout Watchdog Barofsky to Become NYU Law Fellow

-- B y   J a m e s   S t e r n g o l d
-- 
2011-03-01T17:08:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/treasury-bailout-watchdog-barofsky-to-become-nyu-law-fellow.html
  Neil Barofsky , who said last month
he would resign as special inspector general for the Troubled
Asset Relief Program, will become a senior fellow at  New York
University School of Law  on April 1.  Barofsky, 40, who graduated from the law school in 1995,
will teach a course on the financial crisis in the fall and will
be affiliated with programs on criminal law and on law and
business, according to a statement from the school.  “He’s an alum we’re extremely proud of and he’s
participated in events at the law school before,” said Richard
Revesz, the dean of the law school. “Before he takes his next
long-term stint I thought he might spend some time here.”  Revesz e-mailed Barofsky after he announced his resignation
as watchdog for the government’s bank bailout program on Feb.
14, and the two worked out the arrangement last weekend, Revesz
said, adding that Barofsky was likely to stay at the New York
City school through 2011 and perhaps into 2012.  Kris Belisle, a spokeswoman for the special inspector
general’s office, confirmed Barofsky’s move to the university.  After joining TARP in December 2008, Barofsky published
audits and reports that criticized some of the government’s
policies, including the rescue of  American International Group
Inc . and the U.S. Treasury Department’s housing loan-
modification program.  Citigroup’s Close Call  He also disclosed previously secret information about how
close Citigroup Inc. came to failing in 2008.  Before taking on the job at Treasury, Barofsky worked for
more than eight years as a prosecutor in the United States
Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York, where
he headed the office’s Mortgage Fraud Group.  TARP’s “most significant legacy” may be “the moral
hazard and potentially disastrous consequences associated with
the continued existence of financial institutions that are ‘too
big to fail,’” Barofsky said in a report in January.  In his letter of resignation, Barofsky said his office’s
investigations led to 14 criminal convictions for fraud, and
that it recovered more than $150 million and avoided the loss of
$550 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Sterngold in  New York  at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: 