-- 
Treasuries Fall After Fed's Bernanke Notes Inflation, Factories Show Gains

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-03-01T16:36:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/treasuries-fall-after-fed-s-bernanke-notes-inflation-factories-show-gains.html
Treasuries fell after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  acknowledged inflation gains
from higher  oil prices  and a report showed U.S. manufacturing
expanded at the fastest rate in almost seven years.  Ten-year note yields reached the highest in four days as
Bernanke told a congressional hearing that while economic growth
will accelerate this year, he still wants to see a “sustained
period of stronger  job creation .” Thirty-year bond pared losses
as the Fed bought $1.9 billion of Treasuries maturing from
August 2028 to February 2041 as part of its plan to support the
recovery.  “Bernanke acknowledged that the risk of deflation and the
downside risks to the economy has subsided, suggesting he won’t
need to do more on the accommodation side,” said  Ward McCarthy ,
chief financial economist at Jefferies & Co. Inc. in New York.
Jefferies is one of 20 primary dealers required to bid at
Treasury auctions. “The data is robust, with input prices
continuing to rise and manufacturing appearing muscular.”  Ten-year yields increased three basis points to 3.46
percent at 11:28 a.m. in New York, according to BGCantor Market
Data. The price of the 3.625 percent security maturing in
February 2021 fell 7/32, or $2.19 per $1,000 face amount, to 101
13/32. The yield touched 3.49 percent, the most since Feb. 24.  Thirty-year bond yields rose one basis point to 4.51
percent, after reaching as high as 4.55 percent.  Yield Trends  Bernanke testified that experience with price gains linked
to oil in recent decades, along with currently stable labor
costs, suggest a “temporary and relatively modest increase in
U.S. consumer price inflation.” Even with his inflation
outlook, “sustained rises in the prices of oil or other
commodities would represent a threat both to economic growth and
to overall  price stability , particularly if they were to cause
inflation expectations to become less well anchored,” he said.  The central bank chief’s comments suggest the Fed will stay
on course to complete $600 billion of Treasury purchases through
June in a bid to reduce an unemployment rate persisting at 9
percent or higher for almost two years. Bernanke didn’t say what
the Fed’s next step will be after finishing the bond buying
under record monetary stimulus.  “The Fed is nowhere near taking their foot off the
accelerator, let alone applying the brakes,” said Michael Pond,
an interest-rate strategist in New York at Barclays Plc.
“Bernanke’s theme has been consistent that he sees the data
improving, but the  unemployment rate  is well off from levels
that would get them to hike.”  Economic Rise  Ten-year Treasury yields have risen for each of the past
six months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, the longest
run since June 2006, as the economy showed signs of improvement.  Government securities  handed investors a 0.1 percent loss last
month, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Treasury yields will advance to 3.92 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and securities
companies, with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest
weightings.  Manufacturing in the U.S. grew in February as factories
added workers and boosted production, indicating more momentum
for the expansion. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory
index increased to 61.4 from 60.8 in January, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group said today.  Wait for Jobs  “The market is in a range until at least Friday’s
employment report with inflation pressures still low and the Fed
not backing off of his accommodative stance,” said  Dan Greenhaus , chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in
New York.  U.S. payrolls probably grew in February at the fastest
pace in nine months, economists said. Employment increased by
190,000 workers this month, the most since May, after a 36,000
gain in January, according to the median forecast of 59
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before a Labor Department
data on March 4. The report may also show the jobless rate
increased to 9.1 percent from 9 percent.    China , America’s largest foreign creditor, increased its
holdings of  U.S. debt  to a record $1.175 trillion in October,
according to revised data issued yesterday by the Treasury.  The Asian nation’s investment totaled $1.16 trillion at
year-end, the Treasury Department reported yesterday,  raising 
the figure from the previous $891.6 billion. Japan maintained
its place as America’s second-largest lender, with $882.3
billion of Treasuries at year-end, compared with $883.6 billion
before the revision.  The U.K.’s investment was revised down to $272.1 billion
from $541.3 billion. It kept its place as America’s third-
largest lender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  