-- 
Treasuries Decline Before Report Forecast to Show Manufacturing Expanded

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-03-01T14:01:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/treasuries-decline-before-report-forecast-to-show-manufacturing-expanded.html
Treasuries fell before an industry
report that economists said will show U.S. manufacturing
expanded at the fastest rate in almost seven years in February,
damping demand for the safety of fixed-income assets.  Ten-year notes extended declines from last month as stocks
gained around the world, curtailing demand for sovereign debt.
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled to deliver
a semiannual report on monetary policy today to the Senate
Banking Committee.  “We are seeing weakness as global equities have gained
traction as the risk trade seems to be back on as the events in
the Middle East don’t seem to be heating up,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in New York of government debt
trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and
dealer for institutional investors. “Bernanke is going to
highlight that the economy is improving, but the employment
picture remains a concern, which means the continuation of
quantitative easing.”  Ten-year yields increased five basis points to 3.48 percent
as of 8:58 a.m. in  New York , according to BGCantor Market Data.
The price of the 3.625 percent security maturing in February
2021 fell 12/32, or $3.75 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 08/32.  The MSCI World Index climbed 0.2 percent and Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index futures rose 0.3 percent.  ISM, Construction  Ten-year Treasury yields have risen for each of the past
six months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, the longest
run since June 2006, as the economy showed signs of improvement.  Government securities  handed investors a 0.1 percent loss last
month, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Treasury yields will advance to 3.92 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and securities
companies, with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest
weightings.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index rose to
61 in February, the highest since May 2004, from January’s 60.8,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. A separate report is forecast to show construction
spending contracted 0.4 percent in January.  Employment increased by 190,000 workers in February, after a
36,000 gain in January, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before Labor Department
data on March 4. The report may also show the jobless rate rose
to 9.1 percent from 9 percent, another survey showed.  ‘Fairly Good Growth’  “The  U.S. economy  is showing fairly good growth,” said
Roger Bridges, who oversees the equivalent of $16 billion in
Sydney as head of debt at Tyndall Investment Management Ltd., a
unit of Nikko Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “You’ve got to be
short,” he said, meaning he is favoring shorter maturities that
will fall less if yields rise.  Treasuries also fell in February on speculation central
bank efforts to spur growth will boost the economy in 2011.  Three-year Treasury yields fell four basis points to 1.17
percent yesterday as the Fed bought $6.7 billion of debt and
unrest in  Libya  drove investors to the haven of government
notes. The yield increased four basis points today.  The Fed is  scheduled  to buy $1.5 billion to $2.5 billion of
Treasuries maturing from August 2028 to February 2041 today as
part of its plan to pump money into the economy. It announced in
November it would purchase $600 billion of U.S. debt by June 30.  Fed View  Bernanke, testifying before congress today, may repeat that
policy makers are concerned about the pace of recovery and the
time it’s taking to reduce unemployment even as manufacturing
prospers. In an appearance before the House Budget Committee on
Feb. 9, Bernanke told legislators that while declines in the
jobless rate in December and January “do provide some grounds
for optimism,” he said “it will be several years before the  unemployment rate  has returned to a more normal level.”    China , America’s largest foreign creditor, increased its
holdings of  U.S. debt  to a record $1.175 trillion in October,
according to revised data issued by the Treasury.  The Asian nation’s investment totaled $1.16 trillion at
year-end, the Treasury Department reported yesterday,  raising 
the figure from the previous $891.6 billion. Japan maintained
its place as America’s second-largest lender, with $882.3
billion of Treasuries at year-end, compared with $883.6 billion
before the revision.  The U.K.’s investment was revised down to $272.1 billion
from $541.3 billion. It kept its place as America’s third-
largest lender.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  