-- 
RehabCare Group Sued by Investment Fund Over $1.3 Billion Takeover Bid

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-03-01T17:33:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/rehabcare-group-sued-by-investment-fund-over-1-3-billion-takeover-bid.html
RehabCare Group Inc., the provider
of acute rehabilitation services being bought by  Kindred
Healthcare Inc . for about $1.3 billion, was sued by an
investment fund seeking more money in the deal.  Directors of RehabCare are duty-bound to get the most for
the shares and have wrongly agreed to the buyout at an
“inadequate” price, the City of Pontiac General Employees’
Retirement System alleges in yesterday’s  Delaware  Chancery Court
complaint.  “RehabCare’s stock price has traded and closed above the
deal price every trading day since the announcement -- an
indication that the market considers the merger consideration as
undervalued,” lawyers for the fund contend in court papers.  The companies announced the buyout Feb. 8, saying each
share of RehabCare would be exchanged for $26 in cash and 0.471
share of Kindred, or approximately $35 a share at the time. The
$1.3 billion total includes about $400 million in debt.  Shares of St. Louis-based RehabCare fell 28 cents to $36.96
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading at 12:04 p.m.
Kindred, based in Louisville,  Kentucky , fell 25 cents to $24.67
on the NYSE.  The retirees ask a judge to block the transaction and to
award damages, legal fees and expenses.  Donna Lee, a spokeswoman for RehabCare, didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The companies said in their statement that the combination
would create the biggest post-acute health-care services company
in the U.S., with operations in 46 states and $6 billion in
annual revenue.  The case is City of Pontiac General Employees’ Retirement
System v. Rich and  RehabCare Group Inc ., CA6232, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 