-- 
Reserve Bank of Australia Explains March Rate Decision (Text)

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   B a t c h e l o r
-- 
2011-03-01T03:38:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/reserve-bank-of-australia-explains-march-rate-decision-text-.html
Following is the  text  of a statement
by  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor Glenn Stevens explaining
the decision today to keep the benchmark interest rate unchanged.  At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash
rate unchanged at 4.75 percent.  The global economy is continuing its expansion, led by very
strong growth in the Asian region. Commodity prices have risen
further over recent months, pushing up measures of consumer
price inflation in many countries.  A number of countries have
been moving to tighten their monetary policy settings. Overall,
though, financial conditions for the global economy remain
accommodative.  Australia’s terms of trade are at their highest level since
the early 1950s and national income is growing strongly. Private
investment is picking up, mainly in the resources sector, in
response to high levels of commodity prices. In the household
sector thus far, in contrast, there continues to be caution in
spending and borrowing, and a higher rate of saving out of
current income. The effects of the natural disasters over the
summer have reduced output, but production levels should recover
over the months ahead, and there will be a mild boost to demand
from the rebuilding efforts as they get under way.  Asset values have generally been little changed over recent
months and overall credit growth remains quite subdued,
notwithstanding evidence of some greater willingness to lend.
Business balance sheets generally are being strengthened, and
the run-up in household leverage has abated.  The  labour market  firmed in 2010, with unusually strong
growth in employment and a decline in the rate of unemployment.
Most leading indicators suggest further growth in employment,
though most likely at a slower pace. Reports of skills shortages
remain confined, at this point, to the resources and related
sectors. After the significant decline in 2009, growth in wages
has returned to rates seen prior to the downturn.  Inflation is consistent with the medium-term objective of
monetary policy, having declined significantly from its peak in
2008. These moderate outcomes are being assisted by the high
level of the  exchange rate , the earlier decline in wages growth
and strong competition in some key markets, which have worked to
offset large rises in utilities prices. Production losses due to
weather are temporarily raising prices for some agricultural
produce, but these should fall back later in the year. Overall,
looking through these temporary effects, the Bank expects that
inflation over the year ahead will continue to be consistent
with the 2-3 percent target.  At today’s meeting, the Board judged that the current
mildly restrictive stance of monetary policy remained
appropriate in view of the general macroeconomic outlook.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Victoria Batchelor in Sydney at 
 vbatchelor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  