-- 
Ruble Rises Against Dollar; Central Bank Widens Band

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-03-01T17:03:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/ruble-rises-against-dollar-central-bank-widens-currency-band.html
(Corrects spelling of central bank in first paragraph.)  The ruble rose to its strongest
level in almost 16 months against the dollar after unrest in the
Middle East threatened to spread and as Bank Rossii widened its
so-called “floating corridor” to curb inflation.    Russia ’s currency was up 0.4 percent at 28.7050 per dollar
by the 5 p.m. close of trading in Moscow, the highest since
November 2009. It also gained for a fourth day against the
central bank’s dollar-euro basket, adding 0.5 percent to
33.6393, the strongest since May last year. The widening
announcement came after the 5 p.m. close.  Crude, Russia’s biggest export earner, surged as much as
$1.08 to $98.05 a barrel in  New York . Traders increased bets
supplies will be cut after authorities in  Iran , the second-
largest producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, arrested opposition leaders to derail demonstrations
scheduled for today.  “The ruble has been gaining because of the rise in
crude,” said Mark Rubinstein, head of research at Metropol IFC
by phone. “I don’t think it will strengthen much more and we
will see it weaken as the crisis in the Middle East and North
Africa recedes.”  Crude has climbed 7 percent this year as protests that
spurred the ouster of dictatorships in Tunisia and  Egypt  spread
across the Middle East. Fighting in Libya may have shut as much
as 850,000 barrels a day of output, according to the  International Energy Agency .  Bank Rossii has widened the corridor to 32.45-37.45 rubles
versus the dollar-euro basket, First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said in Moscow today.  “This is a consequence and consistent in what we are
seeing in other emerging markets, whereby governments are using
currency appreciation to fight inflation,”  Bhanu Baweja , global
head of emerging-market fixed-income and currency strategy at
UBS AG, said by phone. “It seems to be the right trade but it’s
a very crowded one right now.”  Russia’s central bank buys and sells foreign currency to
keep the ruble within a corridor against the basket to protect
exporters from swings in the currency. The corridor has been
“roughly” 33 to 37 since the start of the year, Bank Rossii’s
Ulyukayev said Feb. 11. The basket rate is calculated by
multiplying the dollar-ruble rate by 0.55, the euro-ruble rate
by 0.45, then adding them together.  Russia’s central bank won’t intervene in stemming ruble
gains and will favor a “very flexible” exchange-rate policy to
help contain inflation, Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said in
comments broadcast on state television Feb. 21.  Russia on Feb. 25 followed  Brazil ,  India  and  China  in
starting to boost borrowing costs, unexpectedly raising its
rates for the first time since December 2008, increasing returns
for investors seeking higher yielding assets.  Bank Rossii put up its refinancing rate to 8 percent from a
record low 7.75 percent in a bid to combat inflation running at
a year-on-year pace of 9.6 percent in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma O’Brien in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  