-- 
Trump SoHo in Manhattan Cuts Prices for Condos After Debt Restructuring

-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 
2011-03-01T17:39:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/trump-soho-in-manhattan-cuts-prices-for-condos-after-debt-restructuring.html
Developers of the Trump SoHo hotel
condominium building in lower  Manhattan  have cut prices on units
at the property after receiving new financing from CIM Group and
paying down debt.  Hotel condominium studios and suites are now priced between
$1 million and $2.26 million, according a statement today from
the project’s sponsors, Bayrock Group LLC and the Sapir
Organization. Penthouses range from $2.5 million to $8.7
million. The 391-unit Trump SoHo has recorded  40 sales  since
marketing of units began in 2007, according to StreetEasy.com.  The new pricing structure reflects “current market
conditions,” the sponsors said in the statement. They didn’t
disclose the previous listing prices.  The average price per square foot of condos publicly listed
for sale at the  Trump SoHo  since Feb. 27 is $2,740, or 5.7
percent less than the average for units listed before that date,
according to StreetEasy, a property data website.  “Trump SoHo is a one-of-a-kind property with a strong and
stable team, and we are pleased to enable the sales
opportunities that will result from the recent capital
investments,” Julius Schwarz, executive vice president of
Bayrock Group, said in the statement. “We look forward to a
strong and successful spring selling season.”  The 46-story Trump SoHo offers condos for sale that may be
used by their owners for only 120 days in a calendar year. For
the rest of the time, they’re offered for rent as hotel rooms.
Owners share in the rental revenue.  Developers of the Trump SoHo announced in December that
they “substantially paid down” the debt owed on the project to  iStar Financial Inc . after receiving a new loan from CIM Group,
a Los Angeles-based real estate investment firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  