-- 
Rusal Loses U.K. Case to Force Disclosure of Law Firm Documents

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-03-01T16:25:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/rusal-loses-u-k-case-to-force-disclosure-of-law-firm-documents.html
United Co. Rusal, the world’s
biggest aluminum company, lost a U.K. lawsuit in which it sought
to force the  New York  law firm Debevoise & Plimpton LLP to turn
over documents to aid its fight for control of competitor OAO
GMK Norilsk Nickel.  The law firm, which represents Norilsk and Rusal’s opponent
in the battle, Interros Holding Co. and its billionaire chairman  Vladimir Potanin , can’t be made to reveal the papers because the
request is “an abuse of process of the court,” Judge Michael Tugendhat ruled today at the High Court in London.  Rusal can’t claim “that an order for disclosure by this
court is now necessary, before Rusal has pursued procedures in  Russia ,” Tugendhat said in the ruling. Debevoise & Plimpton,
whose London office prepared papers related to a share buyback
and other transactions, wasn’t accused of wrongdoing.  Rusal Chief Executive Officer  Oleg Deripaska  has been
locked in a dispute with Interros since 2008 over control of
Norilsk. Norilsk on Feb. 11 increased a bid to buy back shares
held by Rusal, offering $12.8 billion for 20 percent of its
stock -- a proposal rebuffed by Deripaska.  Rusal seeks the documents to aid lawsuits it filed in
Russia and St. Kitts and Nevis, according to the judgment. Rusal
also sued in  Connecticut  and New York, and an arbitration
proceeding between Rusal and Interros started in London in
August 2010.  Olga Iliina, spokeswoman for Moscow-based Rusal, declined
to immediately comment.  Norilsk last month said its Corbiere Holdings unit resumed
a share buyback after a court in St. Christopher & Nevis lifted
an injunction on trading of its stock during the Rusal dispute.
Rusal last month said a U.S. court granted its request to compel
Trafigura Beheer BV to produce documents and testimony in
relation to its purchase of a stake in Norilsk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story. 