-- 
Russia Says Ban Was Wrong to Accuse Belarus of Arming Gbagbo

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-03-01T18:02:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/russia-says-ban-was-wrong-to-accuse-belarus-of-arming-gbagbo.html
Russia’s ambassador to the  United
Nations  said Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon erred in accusing
Belarus of violating an arms embargo on Ivory Coast by sending
attack helicopters to support Laurent Gbagbo’s effort to retain
the presidency.  “This is a regrettable premature statement that was not
supported by the facts,” Ambassador  Vitaly Churkin  said today
of Ban’s allegation.  The UN said in a Feb. 27 statement that Ban learned with
“deep concern” of the reported arrival of the first shipment
of components for three helicopters at the airport in
Yamoussoukro. Ban called for the  Security Council  to meet
“urgently” to discuss the report and “take all necessary
action” to prevent use of the helicopters.  Belarus denied the report, which couldn’t be verified
because UN officials seeking visual confirmation came under fire
at the airport from forces loyal to Gbagbo.  “Before going public that information should have been
verified,” Churkin said. “I think there are some serious
questions that need to be asked.”  Churkin said Russia was told that a message about the
helicopters to UN headquarters from the peacekeeping mission in  Ivory Coast  was “garbled” to mistakenly indicate that the
shipment’s arrival had been verified. Russia raised the incident
with Ban’s office, Churkin said, calling it “much ado about
nothing.”  Serious Matter  Martin Nesirky, Ban’s spokesman, said a panel of experts
appointed by the  Security Council  to monitor implementation of
the arms embargo reported that it had received information about
the shipment and that, “given the seriousness of the matter, it
was decided it needed to be raised publicly.”  Nesirky said the UN hasn’t been able to verify the shipment
because the peacekeeping mission’s freedom of movement is
severely restricted by Gbagbo’s forces. Efforts to verify the
reports are continuing, he said.  Ivory Coast, the world’s top cocoa producer, has been
divided between a government-controlled south and a rebel-held
north since a 2002 uprising of army soldiers. The insurgents
back  Alassane Ouattara , the internationally recognized winner of
the Nov. 28 election. Gbagbo, who has led the West African
nation for the past decade, refuses to cede power, alleging
voter fraud in parts of the north.  Ambassador Maria Viotti of  Brazil , who heads the Security
Council committee on Ivory Coast sanctions, said that “most
likely there was no delivery.” She said the government of
Belarus told the committee there had been no flights to Belarus,
and that so far there “is no evidence” of actual delivery of
helicopters.  “There was a suspicion, and this wouldn’t be just any
normal or expected embargo breach,” Viotti said. “It would
change the balance of forces there, so there was a concern.”  Cocoa for May delivery fell almost 2 percent to $3,623 a
ton in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner in New York at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  