-- 
Russia Repels Retailers as Ikea Halt Curtails Medvedev Goal

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-03-02T10:14:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/russia-repels-retailers-as-ikea-halt-curtails-medvedev-bric-goal.html
Ikea, the world’s biggest home-
furnishings retailer, is just the type of investor  Russia  needs
-- and isn’t getting -- to overcome the lowest foreign
investment rate among leading emerging-market economies.  The Swedish company says it won’t build more stores outside
the Moscow region until local officials stop withholding
permission for two outlets in the central cities of Samara and
Ufa. After investing $4 billion in Russia over 10 years, Ikea
placed a freeze on expansion in June 2009.  The reason the stores aren’t opening is that Ikea is
refusing to pay bribes to safety inspectors, said Kirill
Kabanov, head of the non-governmental National Anti-Corruption
Committee in Moscow.  “We have a zero tolerance on corruption and we have a very
clear policy, and then things must take the time they take,”
Ikea Russia Managing Director Per Wendschlag said in an
interview. He said he had no specific complaint on the delay in
permits in the two cities.  At stake is Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s goal,
expressed in a Jan. 26  interview  with Bloomberg Television, to
match the economic growth rates of other BRIC nations. With
barely more than one-tenth the population of China and India,
Russia needs to attract non-energy investors to grow and
diversify. Corruption has “penetrated all branches of power,”
Medvedev said in the interview.  Khodorkovsky Verdict  The president’s credibility as a graft-busting former
lawyer working to improve the business environment was tarnished
in December when a Moscow court handed a new jail sentence to  Mikhail Khodorkovsky , the former Yukos Oil Co. billionaire, said
James Beadle, a U.K.-based consultant for investors in Russia.
Lack of progress risks harming Medvedev’s prospects a year ahead
of presidential elections.  Foreign companies have repeatedly faced difficulties in
Russia. Royal Dutch Shell Plc,  Europe ’s largest oil company, in
2006 ceded control to state-run OAO Gazprom of its biggest
project in the country, the $22 billion Sakhalin-2 oil and gas
development, amid threats by regulators to revoke the permits on
environmental grounds.  Russian health officials last year warned  Nestle SA , the
world’s largest food company, that it was violating safety rules
at its Russian plants. A spokesman confirmed the warning last
month. It was a move to favor local rivals or extort money,
according to the anti-corruption committee’s Kabanov.  He has been on the board of Transparency International’s
Russia branch since 1995 and was an officer in the anti-
corruption and anti-contraband units of the Federal Security
Service, the KGB’s domestic successor, from 1994 to 1998.  No Success    Wal-Mart Stores Inc . and  Carrefour SA , the world’s two
biggest retailers, quit the Russian market in the past 16 months
after saying they couldn’t repeat the success they had had in
other countries. Both companies are expanding in China,  India 
and  Brazil . Spokesmen for both companies repeated that reason in
interviews last month.  “Russia has the largest consumer market in Europe with a
relatively low degree of penetration,” said  Kingsmill Bond ,
chief strategist at Troika Dialog, in a Feb. 24 phone interview
from  London . “It’s a very attractive market, but companies
encounter endemic corruption and that is impacting foreign
investment.”  Vonnell Martinez, founder and chief executive officer of
 Vim Resources , a Miami-based investment firm, put a plan on hold
in November to set up a $100-million equity fund in Russia
because he decided he couldn’t risk investing other people’s
money in the country.  ‘Crushes Investment’  “All the uncertainty and political threats that are
constantly attacking you, it crushes investment,” he said.     “If
you grow too big, you’re speculating and then you put yourself
under the whim of people who can destroy your business from one
day to the next.”  Medvedev, who before his election in 2008 pledged to combat
“legal nihilism” to win investment to help diversify Russia’s
economy away from oil and gas, said in a speech to the  World
Economic Forum  in January that “we haven’t yet achieved
outstanding results” in the fight against corruption and for
modernizing  law enforcement .  Still, he said, “We are full of determination to act
further,” and “I am confident that we will manage to combat
corruption.”  Russia is the world’s most corrupt major economy, according
to Transparency International’s  2010 Corruption Perceptions
Index , issued in October. It holds the 154th spot of 178
countries surveyed, tied with Tajikistan and  Kenya .  Gas, Juice  To be sure, Russia’s position as the world’s largest energy
exporter yielded  BP Plc ’s Jan. 14 agreement to swap 5 percent of
its shares for a 9.5 percent stake in OAO Rosneft, Russia’s
biggest oil producer, and jointly explore new Arctic fields.  PepsiCo Inc.’s accord in December to buy a controlling
stake in Wimm-Bill-Dann Dairy & Juice Co., one of Russia’s
leading producers of juice and dairy products, for $3.8 billion
is also a sign that companies want to tap into Russia’s fast-
growing consumer market.  In addition, the benchmark  Micex index  has risen 28 percent
in the past 12 months, while the comparable Chinese index is
down 5.2 percent and India’s Sensex Index has risen 10 percent.  Ikea’s Wendschlag said that same-store sales in Russia are
growing at more than 20 percent a year. The company, whose
holding unit is based in Leiden, the Netherlands, currently has
12 stores in Russia and had planned to open the largest
commercial center in Europe outside  Moscow  among other new
outlets, said Wendschlag.  Big Potential  “We are one of the top-selling Ikea countries in the
world,” he said. “The potential with 141 million people who
are interested in consuming and furnishing their homes is big.”  At the same time, concern about the legal system is one
reason Russia got less than a third of the investment fund
inflows of  China , slightly more than 40 percent that of Brazil
and less than did India in the past three years, according to
EPFR Global of Cambridge,  Massachusetts , a research company that
tracks $13 trillion of assets.  Foreign direct investment in Russia was about $8 billion in
the first nine months of 2010, compared with $16 billion in
2009, according to BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research.  Political risk and corporate governance issues mean it
isn’t safe to invest long-term in Russian stocks, said Kaha Kiknavelidze, a managing partner at London-based Rioni Capital
Partners LLP who manages $60 million in emerging markets.  Short Horizons  “Politics influences the corporate side, particularly in
big sectors, so much that it’s very difficult to get comfortable
on a company’s political stance in the long-term,” he said by
phone. “We like to look at a 12-to-18 month horizon in
Russia.”  Ikea’s founder, 84-year-old Swedish billionaire Ingvar Kamprad, has his own concerns. The company fired two executives
in Russia in February 2010 for allowing a contractor to pay a
bribe related to a store in  St. Petersburg , the company said in
a statement at the time.  Kamprad said in a statement in December that he had been
“over-optimistic” about his company’s ability to navigate the
Russian market. “It is shocking and sad that our organization
got carried away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  