-- 
Sampras Beats Agassi, McEnroe Retires in Lighthearted New York Exhibitions

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-03-01T05:50:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/sampras-beats-agassi-mcenroe-retires-in-lighthearted-new-york-exhibitions.html
In his prime,  Andre Agassi  never
would have laughed after losing a set point to  Pete Sampras .  Last night, after Sampras served out the final point in
their exhibition match in front of 17,165 fans at the  BNP
Paribas Showdown  at Madison Square Garden in New York for a 6-3,
7-5 win, the former No. 1-ranked players smiled as they
approached the net to shake hands.  “I’m certainly not too familiar with smiling when facing
down the barrel of his game,” Agassi said. “But tonight was
about creating a little nostalgia for a lot of people that meant
a lot to both of us in our own individual careers.”  Agassi and Sampras took to the court after  Ivan Lendl ’s
exhibition was truncated by an injury for his opponent  John McEnroe . The event, between four players with 37 Grand Slams
and 295 ATP Tour tennis titles between them, was part of a
collaboration between the U.S. Tennis Association and “Let’s
Move,” the foundation begun by First Lady  Michelle Obama  in
a bid to counter  childhood obesity .  The meeting between Agassi and Sampras came nine years
after the latter’s last match as a professional, at the 2002 U.S.
Open final. That match was the last of 34 between the two --
including five Grand Slam finals -- with Sampras winning 20
times.  Sampras, 39, rode his serve and net game last night to beat
Agassi. Sampras, who won 14 Grand Slam titles and earned over
$43 million in prize money in his 15-year career, fired 12 aces
to Agassi’s two and converted all three of his break point
opportunities.  ‘Serve and Volley’  “I was trying to do what I need to do against Andre, which
is come in, serve and volley because he’s got the great
returns,” Sampras said.  Agassi, 40, said after the match that he accomplished his
primary goals -- to avoid injury and to break Sampras’ serve
once.  “Everything is diminished except his biggest weapon, which
is his serve,” Agassi said. “I’m still seeing that thing as
fast as ever.”  The match was played in better spirits than a doubles
meeting along with  Roger Federer  and  Rafael Nadal  a year ago to
raise funds for earthquake victims in  Haiti .  During that encounter, Sampras imitated Agassi’s pigeon-
toed walk and Agassi responded by emptying his pockets and
saying “I don’t have any money,” a jab at Sampras’s tipping
etiquette which Agassi also mentioned in his 2009 autobiography,
“Open.”  Regrets Joke  In a conference call with reporters last week, Agassi said
he regretted the “inappropriate” joke. He said that he called
Sampras to apologize afterwards and that it was something that
wouldn’t happen again.  “Hopefully life will allow us to get to know each other a
little better,” Agassi said last night.  The two joked with each other during the match and smiled
as highlights of their matches played during end changes.  “When they were showing the highlights up there I just
looked at it going, ‘Jeez, I was something in my prime,’”
Agassi said. “We got in some pretty good shots, hopefully
enough to create a little nostalgia, and that’s why we’re
here.”  In the opening match, McEnroe took an early lead against
Lendl as the players rekindled a rivalry that produced three
Grand Slam final showdowns.  The 52-year-old McEnroe had to quit after 35 minutes when
leading 6-3 in the first-to-eight set after spraining his left
ankle while warming up with Sampras.  ‘Had Our Differences’  “We’ve had our differences over the years, but I have a
lot of respect for his ability as a player and I know it was
difficult for him to play well while I was limping around,”
McEnroe said.  McEnroe displayed the crafty volleys and unorthodox shot
selections that won him seven Grand Slam titles, while making
light of his well-known temper -- throwing his racket in mock
effrontery when the chair umpire mispronounced the score.  Lendl, who played in eight straight U.S. Open finals from
1982-89 and won 21 of the pair’s 36 meetings on tour, joked
afterwards that they would return next year wearing 1980s-style
shorts and swinging wooden rackets.  The 50-year-old Czech native said he knew about McEnroe’s
injury before the match and that it affected his play.  “It’s too bad that John just couldn’t move properly,” he
said. “If everything went normally it would have been one hell
of a fight out there and people would have enjoyed it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  