-- 
San Francisco Fed Names Research Head Williams President to Succeed Yellen

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-03-01T22:28:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/san-francisco-fed-names-research-head-williams-president-to-succeed-yellen.html
John C. Williams, research director
for the Federal Reserve Bank of  San Francisco , was named as the
bank’s new president to succeed  Janet Yellen , who became the Fed
board’s vice chairman in October.  The move is effective today, said bank spokeswoman Carol Eckert. Williams, 48, has served as executive vice president and
research director since 2009.  The economist, who has worked in the Fed system since 1994,
joins the central bank’s efforts to bolster growth and reverse a
jobless rate stuck at 9 percent or more since May 2009. He
represents a nine-state western region that accounts for 20
percent of the economy and has had 73 commercial banks fail
since 2004.  “John Williams is certainly a very good compromise
candidate after a long, protracted search,” said Sung Won Sohn,
an economics professor at California State University-Channel
Islands and former chief economist at  Wells Fargo & Co . “He
doesn’t have the real-world experience the San Francisco Fed
board was looking for, but he knows the Federal Reserve System
and knows  Wall Street  reasonably well,” Sohn said.  The Fed’s newest district bank president will participate
in policy discussions and vote on the  Federal Open Market
Committee  once every three years, starting next year. The San
Francisco Fed chief is typically the highest-paid  regional Fed
bank  president: Yellen earned $410,800 in 2009.  ‘Extraordinary Work’  Williams “has distinguished himself as one of the most
respected economists in the Federal Reserve System because of
his extraordinary work in the field of monetary policy
analysis,” Douglas W. Shorenstein, the San Francisco Fed’s
board chairman, said in a statement.  The board considered a “wide range of candidates,” said
Shorenstein, who is also chairman and chief executive of
Shorenstein Properties LLC in San Francisco. The search was
already under way in July, when Yellen was still the San
Francisco Fed’s president and awaiting a confirmation hearing in  Washington .  Fed presidents are appointed by each regional Fed bank’s
boards and approved by the central bank’s governors in
Washington. The head of the San Francisco Fed is the first named
under new legislation signed into law by President  Barack Obama 
in July, which keeps private-sector bankers who serve on
regional Fed boards out of the selection process.  “The San Francisco Fed has long had a reputation for
wanting to have fairly well-known economists as president,”
said Gerald O’Driscoll, a former Dallas Fed vice president and
now senior fellow at the  Cato Institute  in Washington.  Shift Away  The selection of Williams reflects a shift away from a
prominent economist in favor of a less well-known insider at the
Fed, O’Driscoll said. Williams joined the staff of the Fed board
in 1994, and spent eight years in Washington before becoming an
adviser to the San Francisco regional bank in 2002.  A graduate of the  University of California  at Berkeley, the  London School  of Economics, and  Stanford University , Williams
was a senior economist for the Council of Economic Advisers
during the Clinton administration. The Sacramento-native has
published more than 30 articles on topics ranging from
forecasting recessions to inflation targeting and monetary
policy.  “He’s really a first-class analyst and will be an
excellent member of the FOMC,” said Stanford University
Professor  John Taylor , who advised Williams while he was a
graduate student at Stanford.  Objective  “His research and analysis is objective, thorough,” said
Taylor, who has criticized the Fed’s asset purchases and
response to the financial crisis. “It’s respected by people
with different views.”  Williams co-wrote  a paper  released in January outlining the
benefits from the central bank’s asset purchases and concluding
that the Fed’s two rounds of quantitative easing will create a
total of 3 million jobs by 2012.  While backing the Fed’s asset purchases, Williams’s views
on inflation have sometimes contrasted with those of Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  In  a 2009 paper  titled, “Heeding Daedalus: Optimal
Inflation and the Zero Lower Bound,” Williams argued that the
Fed’s goal for 2 percent inflation may be too low, hampering its
ability to provide stimulus.  Bernanke, during testimony today before the Senate Banking
Committee in Washington, rejected the idea of allowing inflation
to exceed 2 percent.  “We do not have the illusion that allowing inflation to
get high is in any way a constructive thing to do,” he said.  In his most recent speech last month, Williams said that
while monetary policy is likely to remain accommodative for some
time, policy makers will reverse course at the appropriate
moment.  “Being an insider has its advantages and disadvantages,”
O’Driscoll said. “He knows how the Fed works. That’s good. The
challenge for an insider is always establishing your
independence.”  Williams ranks in the top 2 percent of economists by
citations and popularity, ahead of most members of the Fed’s
Open Market Committee, except for Bernanke and regional Fed
presidents  Narayana Kocherlakota  from  Minneapolis ,
Philadelphia’s  Charles Plosser , and Charles Evans of  Chicago ,
according to RePEc: Research Papers in Economics, an online
database of economic material operated by volunteers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  