-- 
Saudi Economy Not Affected by Regional Turmoil, Assaf Says

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-03-01T10:55:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/saudi-economy-not-affected-by-regional-turmoil-assaf-says-1-.html
  Saudi Arabia , the Arab world’s
largest economy, hasn’t suffered any negative effects from the
political turmoil sweeping other countries in the Middle East,
Finance Minister Ibrahim al-Assaf said.  “We haven’t seen any adverse impact on the Saudi
economy,” Al-Assaf told reporters in  Riyadh  today.  King
Abdullah ’s recent spending pledge will have a positive impact on
the economy, he said.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil supplier and a Group
of 20 member, is spending on social and housing amid popular
uprisings roiling the Arab world. Governments in Bahrain and
Yemen are being challenged by protesters calling for greater
political openness after rebellions toppled leaders in Tunisia
and  Egypt .  King Abdullah, who returned to the kingdom on Feb. 23 after
three months of medical treatment, announced a 40 billion-riyal
($10.7 billion) increase in housing spending and allocated 1
billion riyals for the social-security budget. Combined, the
financial-support measures were worth about 135 billion riyals,
according to a note sent by Riyadh-base  Banque Saudi Fransi .  The kingdom’s budget expenditure will climb this year as a
result of the monarch’s pledge to spend more on his citizens,
Al-Assaf said. Saudi Arabia may also draw on its cash reserves
to cover the cost of extra spending, al-Hayat reported on Feb.
27, citing Al-Assaf.  The 86-year-old monarch, who has ruled since 2005, traveled
to the U.S. in November for treatment of a back injury and went
to Morocco on Jan. 22 for physical therapy and to recuperate,
the  Saudi Press Agency  reported.  To contact the reporter responsible for the story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 