-- 
Saudi King’s $15 Billion Housing Grant Won’t Eliminate Shortage

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 
2011-03-02T14:23:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/saudi-king-s-15-billion-housing-grant-won-t-eliminate-shortage.html
Saudi King Abdullah’s pledge to
increase spending on housing by 55 billion riyals ($15 billion)
probably will do little to relieve the country’s home shortage
unless it’s coupled with long-delayed changes in mortgage
financing laws.  “This is largely symbolic,” said  Jarmo Kotilaine , chief
economist at  National Commercial Bank ,  Saudi Arabia ’s largest
lender by assets. “We have a significant structural issue that
can never be solved through  government spending  alone.”  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil exporter, needs 2
million homes by 2014 to keep up with the demands of a
population that quadrupled over 40 years,  Credit Suisse Group AG 
estimates. A planned mortgage law aimed at bringing private
lenders into the market by creating a clearer set of rules is
still being debated a decade after it was proposed.  The 86-year-old monarch last week announced plans to spend
about 110 billion riyals on programs aimed at boosting housing,
education and social welfare. Governments from  Jordan  to Yemen
have offered concessions to quell public discontent after
popular uprisings toppled leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt  last
month and led to protests across the Middle East and North
Africa.  Interest-Free Loans  Saudi Arabia’s Real Estate Development Fund, which provides
interest-free loans, will get 40 billion riyals. Another 15
billion riyals will be added to the housing budget to build
affordable homes for state employees.  The money will help the real-estate fund provide an
additional 133,000 loans, Saudi finance minister Ibrahim al- Assaf said on Al Arabiya TV Feb. 27. The fund has granted about
600,000 loans since it started in 1975, he said.  Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index  dropped 3.9 percent
to its lowest in almost two years. The measure’s banking index,
which includes 11 stocks, was among the day’s worst performers
after sliding 6.4 percent. Builders lost 4.6 percent, while
property developers fell 4 percent in Riyadh trading.  While the government’s plan is a step in the right
direction, much more would be achieved by passing laws that
allow a private mortgage lending market to thrive, according to
Naveed Siddiqui, chief executive officer of  Capitas Group
International . Capitas, a Saudi Arabia-based holding company
focused on Islamic financing, estimates that the mortgage law
could spark a lending market worth $32 billion a year.  “Risk and credit approval measures need to be put in place
so money goes to the people who deserve and there is clear-cut
monitoring of its effectiveness,” he said.  Selective Investments  Kotilaine of Jeddah-based NCB said much of the property
investment in recent years has gone toward the upper end of the
market or on commercial real estate without addressing the
housing needs of the wider population.  Banks have shied away from mortgage lending in Saudi Arabia
because of unclear regulation that could lead to lengthy court
disputes in cases of default, leaving the country’s real estate
fund unable to meet the demands of a growing population. Less
than 1 percent of all Saudi home purchases are financed by
mortgages. That compares with 7 percent in the neighboring  United Arab Emirates  and 66 percent in the U.S., Deutsche Bank
estimated in November.  “To say this is scratching the surface is perhaps too
derogatory, but it’s very partial solution,” Kotilaine said of
the increased spending on housing. “The kinds of numbers that
we are seeing in Saudi Arabia are going to require a solution of
a completely different magnitude.”  Cash Transactions  Currently, most buyers pay cash or get interest-free loans
from the real-estate fund. Some use money provided by the fund
to buy land before tapping into consumer loans, end-of-service
pay or pensions to fund homebuilding. Others rely on cash from
their families combined with personal loans.  If lending “continues to be done the way it was before, as
a direct lending program and non-recourse money giveaway, it
will go fast and we’ll never know what the true effect of it
will be,” Siddiqui said.  Predictions that the mortgage law would be passed last year
weren’t met as the government and the Shura Council, a body that
advises the king, worked out differences. The remaining
disagreements “should be ironed out soon,” Saleh Al-Shoaibi,
head of the council’s economic affairs and Energy Committee,
said by telephone. He said  King Abdullah ’s three-month absence
for medical treatment also delayed approval.  “This is not a law you can get out and then start amending
later,” Al-Shoaibi said. “They want to get it right the first
time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 