-- 
Saudi Stocks Slump Most Since 2008 on Concern Unrest to Spread

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-03-01T13:02:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/saudi-stocks-slump-most-in-world-on-concern-unrest-may-spread-to-kingdom.html
Saudi Arabia’s benchmark stock index
plunged the most since November 2008 and entered bear-market
territory on concern political unrest in the Middle East may
spread to the kingdom.    Al-Rajhi Bank  fell to the lowest in a year and  Saudi Basic
Industries Corp ., the world’s biggest petrochemicals maker,
tumbled 7.8 percent. Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index 
slumped 6.8 percent to 5,538.72 at the 3:30 p.m. close in  Riyadh . The measure has lost 20 percent since reaching its 2010
high, the common definition of a bear market. Credit-default
swaps linked to Saudi Arabia, used as a measure of confidence
although they reference no debt, rose 4 basis points to 140,
according to CMA prices in  London .  “Performance in Saudi exemplifies that geo-political risk
still remains unresolved within the region,” said Omair Ansari,
equity strategist at Gulfmena Alternative Investments in Dubai.
“We still have rumors of protests within the kingdom for March
11 and 20, which provides for a level of uncertainty, even if
they do not transpire. Markets will continue to capitulate due
to the inability to price in top-down risk.”  Political turmoil in the region has spread to the  Persian
Gulf , with protests erupting in Oman and Bahrain inspired by
popular uprisings that toppled leaders in Tunisia and Egypt.
Websites have called for a nationwide Saudi “Day of Rage” on
March 11 and March 20, Human Rights Watch said in a statement
yesterday.  ‘Flooded With Fear’  “The market is flooded with fear and investors cannot seem
to find anything that reassures them of a possible light at the
end of the tunnel,” said Amro Halwani, senior equity sales
trader at Shuaa Capital PSC in Riyadh. “Right now it’s a rumor-
driven market and cash seems to be the safest place to be in.”  Prince Talal Bin Abdul Aziz Al Saud, a member of  Saudi
Arabia ’s royal family, said on Feb. 17 that the kingdom may see
protests unless King Abdullah introduces reforms, according to
BBC Arabic TV.  The king boosted spending on housing by 40 billion riyals
($10.7 billion) on Feb. 23. The social security budget was
raised by 1 billion riyals and he also ordered the creation of
1,200 jobs in supervision programs and made permanent a 15
percent cost-of-living allowance for government employees,
according to a statement on state-run television.  Saudi Arabia is the world’s biggest exporter of oil and the
largest Arab economy. Crude gained 0.9 percent to $97.81 a
barrel at 8 a.m. in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  Cleric  Authorities “should immediately release” Tawfiq al-Amir,
a Shiite cleric in the country, who was apparently arrested
after he called for a constitutional monarchy and equal rights
for the Shiite minority, Human Rights Watch said in its
statement.  Al-Rajhi, the country’s largest publicly traded lender by
market value, fell 2.7 percent to 71.5 riyals, the lowest since
January 2010. Sabic decreased to 86 riyals, the lowest since
Sept. 1.  Oman’s measure surged 4.1 percent after slumping 4.9
percent yesterday. The  DFM General Index  rose 1 percent.
Kuwait’s SE Price Index dropped 2.5 percent and Bahrain’s BB All
Share Index fell 0.5 percent.  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index 
retreated 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  