-- 
HSBC Says 20% Asia Return on Equity `Achievable' on Growth

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-03-01T02:21:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/hsbc-s-wong-sees-asia-roe-comfortably-ahead-of-rest-of-bank.html
  HSBC Holdings Plc  said its Asian
operations can sustain return on equity of as much as five
percentage points above the lender’s global target as growth
outpaces other regions.  Return on equity of about 18 percent to 20 percent “is
achievable” for HSBC in  Asia  in coming years,  Peter Wong , the
bank’s chief executive officer for the Asia-Pacific region, said
today in an interview. London-based HSBC posted a 21.1 percent
return for the region in 2010, more than double the ratio for
the bank as a whole.  HSBC CEO Stuart Gulliver yesterday cut the bank’s target
for return on equity to as high as 15 percent, as regulators
push lenders to hold more capital in reserve after the financial
crisis. Asian economies have recovered faster from the global
recession than the U.S. and Europe, led by China and  India .  “I’ll probably say that we will still be comfortably ahead
of the range set by the bank at least for a few years,” said
Wong, 59. “The most important thing is using our brand in Asia
to get more out of each customer.”  HSBC said yesterday it will target a return on equity of 12
percent to 15 percent instead of 15 percent to 19 percent. The
stock fell as much as 4.9 percent as of 10 a.m. in  Hong Kong ,
the biggest drop in a year.  Different Regulations  Gulliver, 51, joined CEOs at  Credit Suisse Group AG  and
Barclays Plc in cutting profitability targets after concluding
that stricter capital rules will eat into earnings. Basel III
rules scheduled to come fully into force in 2019 will require
banks to hold more equity as a cushion against losses.  Large banks in Asia have typically posted return of equity
of 16 percent to 19 percent in economic expansions, said Dominic Chan, an analyst at BNP Paribas SA in Hong Kong.  “I think 18 percent RoE is achievable for big players like
HSBC,” said Chan, who has a “buy” rating on HSBC. “Given its
size and scale, it has a funding cost advantage.”  Regulators should discuss whether the measures taken to
rein in the financial industry, which included bigger capital
buffers, are also needed in Asia, according to Wong. Unlike in
the U.S. and  Europe , where governments spent billions of dollars
bailing out banks during the financial crisis, no major Asian
financial institution needed state support.  “They need to come together and talk and say that what’s
applicable to the western hemisphere may or may not be
applicable to Asia,” he said.  Staff Costs  Efforts to bolster profit in Asia, which accounted for 61
percent of HSBC’s pretax earnings last year, may suffer as
tighter competition for staff pushes pay higher. Gulliver, who
was named CEO in September, said yesterday he’s paying more for
bankers in Asia than in Britain.  HSBC’s staff turnover in Asia rose to 18 percent to 20
percent last year, as employees in countries like  China  departed
for higher-paying jobs, Wong said. The promise of higher
economic growth across Asia has prompted global banks to expand
there, driving up demand for workers, he said.  “The turnover in Asia increased in 2010, especially in the
second half,” said Wong. “As far as people are concerned, the
cost is bound to go up, and I think it’s going to be like this
for the next couple of years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  