-- 
HSBC Sees Opportunity in U.A.E., Qatar Shares Amid Unrest

-- B y   D a r r e n   B o e y   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-03-01T09:45:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/hsbc-sees-opportunity-in-u-a-e-qatar-shares-amid-unrest-1-.html
United Arab Emirates and Qatari
shares have been “overly punished” by political turmoil
spreading throughout the Middle East and North Africa, according
to HSBC Global Asset Management (UK) Ltd.  The U.A.E. and Qatar “are arguably the two most stable
economies in the region and the only ones that haven’t had any
sort of unrest so far,” Andrea Nannini, a senior  fund manager 
at HSBC Global, said in an interview in  Hong Kong  today. “For
us, that gives an opportunity because there’s a disconnect
between what the market is pricing in, in terms of risk, and
what the actual risk is.”  Political turmoil from Libya to Oman have deterred
investors and the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index  of Gulf shares has
declined 11 percent since the ouster of former Tunisian
President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali on Jan. 14. That compares with
a 12 percent drop in Dubai’s measure in the same period and a 6
percent drop in  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index .  Qatar’s economy will expand 20 percent this year, the  International Monetary Fund  said Dec. 13. Moody’s Investors
Service estimates the country will spend about $57 billion over
the next decade for infrastructure developments related to the
soccer  World Cup . The benchmark  stock index  has dropped 2.5
percent since the nation won the bid to host the event in 2022.  ‘Differentiating’ Nations  “The key is differentiating the different areas and the
different countries in the Middle East,” Nannini said. “The
markets right now are extrapolating as if every single country
is going to go through the same process that we’ve seen in
Tunisia and Egypt, which we do not necessarily agree with and
that’s why we think investment opportunities might present
themselves.”  A decline of 12 percent this year has left the 30 companies
in Dubai’s benchmark index valued at about 6.2 times estimated
earnings, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with
11.3 times for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index. The  DFM General
Index  increased 1.3 percent at 12:57 p.m. in Dubai today.
Qatar’s measure rose 0.4 percent and Abu Dhabi’s dropped 0.4
percent.  Egypt’s EGX 30 Index slid 16 percent in the week the bourse
stopped trading on Jan. 27 because of a popular revolt that
ended the 30-year rule of President Hosni Mubarak two weeks
later. That brought the drop for the year to 21 percent. The
gauge may extend losses that made it the world’s worst performer
this year after the suspension ends on March 6.  “We’re looking for a few weeks of volatility in the region
but on a medium-to-long-term view, opportunities will definitely
be there,” Nannini said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  