-- 
Scene Last Night: Rosie Rios, Muriel Siebert, Natalie Morales Honor Women

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-03-01T16:13:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/scene-last-night-rosie-rios-muriel-siebert-natalie-morales-honor-women.html
The number of powerful women on  Wall
Street  got a temporary boost last night thanks to the  National
Council for Research on Women .  The group convened its annual Making a Difference for Women
Awards Dinner at 55 Wall Street, a building that was once home
to the New York Stock Exchange and is now a Cipriani catering
hall.  Rosie Rios, treasurer of the  United States , handed out $1
and $20 bills that she signed on the spot, above her printed
signature. Marjorie Magner, founder and managing partner of
Brysam Global Partners, bragged about her 9-month-old
granddaughter. Muriel Siebert, chief executive officer of Muriel
Siebert & Co., and the “Today” show co-host Natalie Morales
both wore black lace.  In a ceremony that lasted about as long as the Oscars,
awards were given to Michelle Bachelet, former president of
Chile and now the under-secretary-general and executive director
of UN women; Siebert; philanthropists Peter and Patricia Gruber;
Ruth J. Simmons, president of  Brown University ; and Edward Gilligan, vice chairman of American Express Co.  Gilligan and his boss, Kenneth Chenault, the chairman and
CEO of American Express, were among the few men present.  As for increasing the number of women in finance, “It’s
urgent,” Simmons said in an interview at a pre-dinner reception
in the library of the Cipriani Club Residences. She added that
“it’s a natural process -- I think it’s just a question of
time.”  ‘Having a Rabbi’  Others noted research that suggests women need male or
female sponsors to pull them up the ladder.  “In the old days, that used to be called having a rabbi,”
Michelle Clayman, founder and chief investment officer of New
Amsterdam Partners LLC, said in an interview.  The National Council for Research on Women promotes the
work of 120 U.S.-based policy and research centers including  Hunter College ’s Center for the Study of Family Policy;  Hamilton
College ’s Diversity and Social Justice Project; and the
Institute for Women and Work at  Cornell University .  Kathy LeMay, president and CEO of fundraising firm  Raising
Change LLC , said the council staff should answer their phones,
“Research kicks butt, can I help you?”  The event raised more than $700,000 and included Bloomberg
LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, among its sponsors.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
art and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 