-- 
Scottish & Southern Starts Natural-Gas Plant After One-Year Halt

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-03-01T11:51:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/scottish-southern-starts-natural-gas-plant-after-one-year-halt.html
  Scottish & Southern Energy Plc 
switched on a natural-gas fired unit at its Peterhead power
station today for the second time since December 2009.  Unit 2, the smaller of two at the site in the northeast of
Scotland, is producing electricity commercially while unit one
is undergoing an outage, Justyn Smith, a Perth, Scotland-based
spokesman for Scottish & Southern, said today by telephone.  Scottish & Southern put operations at the 640-megawatt unit
 under review  last March because high costs to transport
electricity made it less profitable. The company limited
transmission of power from Peterhead, 600 miles (965 miles) from  London , to 1,180 megawatts, equivalent to the capacity of unit 1
at the site.  Unit 2 was producing about 250 megawatts at about 11 a.m.
local time, the second time it has operated since 2009,
according to grid data on Bloomberg.  Britain’s power industry pays 2.5 billion pounds ($4.1
billion) a year to transport electricity from generators to
customers, according to Ofgem. The charges, equivalent to about
5 percent of wholesale prices, are passed through to end users.
Utilities pay National Grid Plc, the network manager, more to
ship electricity the further away they are from areas of high
demand. This means  Scotland  has Britain’s highest transmission
prices.  Scottish & Southern plans to shut its 123-megawatt gas-
fueled plant in Fife, 30 miles from Edinburgh, at the end of
March because keeping it open would be “loss making” this
year, the company said last month. Rising gas prices and a
requirement to purchase all emissions permits make it
“increasingly challenging” to operate small gas-fired
generation, Scottish & Southern said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  