-- 
House Approves Stopgap Budget Bill as Senate Agrees to Avert U.S. Shutdown

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-03-01T20:22:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/senate-will-pass-house-republicans-two-week-budget-extension-reid-says.html
The U.S. government will avoid a
shutdown this week as Senate Democrats agreed to accept House
Republicans’ temporary plan to keep agencies operating while
cutting $4 billion in spending.  The House is debating two-week funding proposal and will
vote on it later today. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada  said his chamber will vote on the measure and approve it
within two days.  “We’ll pass this and then we’ll look to funding the
government on a long-term basis,” Reid told reporters in  Washington .  The Republican proposal would cut a handful of programs
while keeping almost all agencies at current spending levels
until March 18. Failure to enact a measure by March 4, when
current spending authority ends, would force a shutdown of all
but essential government functions.  The two-week extension would allow time for House
Republicans, Senate Democrats and President Barack Obama’s
administration to negotiate on how to finance the government
through Sept. 30. The House last month passed a Republican plan
to cut $61 billion from this year’s budget, a proposal Democrats
say goes too far and would harm the economic recovery.  “To think that we are going to have significant cuts in
spending levels is not going to be easy,” House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  said when asked whether Republicans need to
scale back their cuts to reach a long-term deal with Democrats.
“But I think all of us know we are going to cut spending.”  One-Month Bill  Obama talked today with Boehner about the negotiations,
White House spokesman Jay Carney told reporters.  “We want to focus on the spending and spending cuts that
we can all agree on and not include extraneous policy issues
that are not priorities right now.”  Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Daniel Inouye of  Hawaii  said earlier today that his colleagues wanted a one-month
stopgap spending bill to give additional time for lawmakers to
work out their differences on longer-term fudning.  Reid said Democrats made “a number of suggestions” to
Boehner on the measure “and they’ve rejected all of them.”  The House, prodded by Republican members elected last year
with the support of the fiscally conservative Tea Party
movement, passed its proposed $61 billion spending cut on Feb.
19. That measure called for reductions of 10 percent or more in
hundreds of government programs.  Pet Projects  The two-week spending legislation being considered today
would carve $1.3 billion from eight programs Obama already
proposed cutting. The rest of the $4 billion in savings would
come by rescinding unspent money for lawmakers’ pet projects --
a policy of allocating funds, known as earmarking, that both
parties have said they will abandon.  The plan would cut spending at the same rate as the $61
billion proposal, allowing Republicans to say they are making
progress on keeping campaign promises to roll back non-security
discretionary spending to 2008 levels.  It would rescind unspent highway spending and would cut
four Department of Education programs, a broadband program and
state-election grants, all of which the Obama administration
proposed in its budget request last month.  Wyoming Republican Representative Cynthia Lummis said
yesterday the focus on a handful of cuts endorsed by the
president “seems a very logical, clean, noncontroversial way to
garner bipartisan support.”  ‘The Bigger Fight’  “The bigger fight is what’s going to happen in two weeks”
when lawmakers try to reach agreement on a spending plan for the
rest of the 2011 fiscal year, said West Virginia Republican
Representative David McKinley, a freshman who attended a Tea
Party Caucus meeting yesterday.  At least some House Republicans expressed concern about the
short-term proposal. Representative Joe Walsh of  Illinois  said
he wasn’t sure whether he would support the bill.  “It doesn’t contain many of the cuts that these freshmen
feel very strongly about,” Walsh said. “It might be OK to
swallow for two weeks, but there are things we want to do that
extend beyond this.”  The chief economist at Moody’s Analytics,  Mark Zandi , said
yesterday that the economy was still too weak for the
Republicans’ $61 billion budget-cutting plan. He predicted that
it would cut 0.5 percentage points from economic growth this
year and an additional 0.2 percentage points next year, which he
said would mean 700,000 fewer jobs in the U.S. by the end of
2012.  “Significant government spending restraint is vital, but
given the economy’s halting recovery, it would be
counterproductive for that restraint to begin until the U.S. is
creating enough jobs to lower the  unemployment rate ,” Zandi
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at   or
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  