-- 
Sheen Lawyer Says Star Answering Producer’s ‘Outrageous Insults’

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-03-01T20:07:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/sheen-lawyer-says-star-answering-producer-s-outrageous-insults-.html
  Charlie Sheen ’s lawyer says the star
of CBS’s “Two and a Half Men” took to the airwaves to defend
himself against comments by show producer Chuck Lorre, including
“outrageous insults” that appeared on TV after some episodes.  “Mr. Lorre has repeatedly made negative and derogatory
comments about our client, and harassed Mr. Sheen on the set,”
Martin Singer said in a letter yesterday to CBS and Warner Bros.
“With Warner Bros. and CBS’s permission, Mr. Lorre has also
disseminated outrageous insults and derogatory remarks targeting
my client in vanity cards at the end of Mr. Lorre’s shows.”    Paul McGuire , a Warner Bros. spokesman in Burbank,  California , declined to comment, as did Chris Ender, a spokesman
for New York-based  CBS Corp . Lorre’s publicist, Pam Wilson,
didn’t respond to a request for comment. Sheen’s publicist, Stan
Rosenfield, resigned yesterday.  The claims are part of a five-page letter from Singer that
threatens legal action if Sheen isn’t paid for the eight
episodes that were canceled. CBS and Warner Bros., a unit of  Time Warner Inc ., halted production last week. “Two and Half
Men’s is TV’s most-watched comedy.  Singer listed several comments from so-called vanity cards
that follow credits on ‘‘Two and a Half Men” and other shows
Lorre produces. Among the statements, wrote Singer, were those
listed under a “To Do List” that included “Go to Al-Anon
meeting” and “Write a country song entitled ‘Hooker in the
Closet.’”  The references are to Sheen’s acknowledged substance use
and publicity surrounding an incident in which a woman with
Sheen in a New York hotel room took refuge in a closet.  Lorre’s Website  “Do not attempt to replicate what you saw in tonight’s
episode of ‘Two and a Half Men,” said one posting at Lorre’s
 website . “This is extremely dangerous behavior and could result
in injury or death. Please keep in mind that we employ a highly-
paid Hollywood professional who has years of experience with
putting his life at risk. And sadly no, I’m not talking about
our stunt man.”  Singer’s letter says CBS and Warner employed “a double
standard by permitting Mr. Lorre to engage in a public rant
against Mr. Sheen.”  CBS and Warner Bros. stopped production of the show last
week, citing “the totality of Charlie’s Sheen’s statements,
conduct and condition” after the star first commented on Lorre.  Sheen’s attorney wrote that his client was “ready, willing
and able to perform his obligations under his contract” and
that “he recently passed a urine test, the results of which
have already been submitted to you.”  Speaking at an investor conference in  San Francisco , CBS
Chief Executive Officer  Leslie Moonves  said he hoped the show
would return.  “He’s on the air quite a bit this day,” Moonves said .
“I wish he would have worked this hard to promote himself for
an Emmy.”  CBS fell 63 cents to $23.23 at 2:59 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Time Warner declined 55 cents to
$37.64.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  