-- 
SocGen, Stanford Receiver Spar Over Swiss Bank Data Subpoena

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-01T01:12:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/socgen-stanford-receiver-spar-over-swiss-bank-data-subpoena-1-.html
  Societe Generale  Private Banking
(Suisse) SA urged a U.S. judge in  Dallas  to block subpoenas for
Swiss banking records sought by the receiver for indicted
financier R. Allen Stanford.  Stanford, who allegedly led a $7 billion fraud scheme,
routed more than $100 million in investor funds through the
Swiss bank accounts, court-appointed receiver Ralph Janvey told
U.S. District Judge David Godbey in papers filed Feb. 22.  Janvey subpoenaed Stanford’s personal and business banking
records in December from the Lausanne, Switzerland-based unit of
Paris-based Societe Generale,  France ’s second-largest lender.
The bank said Janvey should seek the records through
international banking treaties, as the bankers could be jailed
for breaking Swiss privacy laws.  “There’s no reason not to go to the Hague Convention when
you have conflicts of law as serious as the one you have
here,’” SocGen’s lawyer, Noelle Reed, told Godbey in court
today. ”My client takes very seriously the criminal statutes we
have referred to.”  Stanford, 60, is accused in civil and criminal cases of
misleading investors about the nature and oversight of
certificates of deposit they purchased from his Antigua-based
Stanford International Bank Ltd.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued the former
Stanford Group Co. principal two years ago, resulting in
Janvey’s appointment. A U.S. grand jury in Houston indicted him
on 21 criminal counts four months later.  Stanford Denies Wrongdoing  Stanford, who has denied the civil and criminal
allegations, is being held without bail while awaiting trial.  He is being treated for a prison-acquired prescription drug
addiction at the same U.S. correctional complex where  Bernard Madoff  is serving a 150-year sentence for an unrelated Ponzi
scheme.  Societe Generale, in papers filed with Godbey earlier
today, said Janvey opted to serve the subpoena upon a bank
office in Miami, rather than comply with the international legal
procedures for taking evidence abroad outlined in the Hague
Convention.  His demand placed bank officers at risk of criminally
violating Swiss banking secrecy laws, said Reed, a Houston-based
attorney with  New York ’s Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP.  “The threat of criminal punishment is real, including the
possibility of imprisonment,” Reed said. “Swiss residents
cannot avoid these laws simply by turning information over to
their American counterparts to be ‘produced’ in this country.”  ‘Given You Nothing’  Janvey’s lawyer, Kevin Sadler, told the judge today it’s
“speculative” of the bank to say it will be prosecuted for
breaking privacy laws.  “They’ve given you nothing that the risk of prosecution is
likely or probable,” Sadler said.  More than $70 million of the money sent to the Swiss
accounts was diverted to Stanford’s personal accounts and more
than $1 million used to bribe Stanford International Bank’s
Antiguan outside auditor, Sadler said in the Feb. 22 filing.  “This was a  Ponzi scheme , and the Swiss banks are one of
the conduits through which money flowed,’’ John Little, the
court-appointed examiner who speaks for Stanford’s investors,
told Godbey today. “This idea of going to the Hague Convention
will buy us six more months or a year of delay, and that delay
is killing the investors. There has to be a Swiss interest
against facilitating fraud.’’  Godbey took the lawyers’ arguments under advisement and
said he’d rule as promptly as possible.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09cv298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of  Texas  (Dallas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Andrew M. Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 