-- 
Somali Government Plans to Intensify Fight Against al-Shabaab Insurgents

-- B y   H a m s a   O m a r
-- 
2011-03-01T10:22:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/somali-government-plans-to-intensify-fight-against-al-shabaab-insurgents.html
Somalia’s government will intensify
its offensive against al-Shabaab after making “tangible”
progress in its efforts to flush the insurgents out of the
capital, Mogadishu, President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed said.  “The offensive has not yet occurred as intended,” Sheikh
Sharif told reporters yesterday at the presidential palace in
the city. “There are ongoing concrete plans to clear out al-
Shabaab from Mogadishu.”  Most of southern and central Somalia has been seized by al-
Shabaab since it began a campaign against the Western-backed
government in 2007, while President Sheikh Sharif’s
administration controls only parts of Mogadishu, backed by
African Union peacekeepers. The U.S. accuses al-Shabaab of
having links to al-Qaeda.  Sheikh Mukhtar Robow Abu Mansor, a leader of al-Shabaab,
said today the government offensive has failed because of
division within government ranks, pointing to a dispute between
Sheikh Sharif and the speaker of parliament over the extension
of parliament’s mandate.  Somali lawmakers announced earlier this month that they
would extend parliament’s mandate, which ends in August, for
three more years, even after the government failed to enact a
new constitution or organize elections. Sheikh Sharif has called
for a review of the extension, while Speaker Sharif Hassan
Sheikh Adam has said lawmakers won’t reverse the decision,
 Shabelle Media Network , a Mogadishu-based news agency, reported
yesterday.  ‘Apostate Government’  “The fighting from the apostate government and mercenary
African troops has failed because both the top officers of the
apostate government are in dispute,” Mansor said in remarks
broadcast today on Mogadishu-based Radio Furgan. Mansor spoke to
villagers in Tulo Barwaaqo, in the Gedo region near the border
with Kenya and Ethiopia.  Mansor also said al-Shabaab fighters have been defending
themselves in the region against attacks by Kenyan and Ethiopian
forces.  The Kenya Red Cross Society said yesterday that fighting
between al-Shabaab militants and fighters allied with Somalia’s
government erupted on Feb. 25 near the northeastern Kenyan town
of Mandera, close to the borders of Somalia and  Ethiopia .
Residents are hiding indoors and at least 400 refugees have
registered with the organization to receive emergency aid, the
organization said.  Kenya has a battalion of its forces in Mandera that patrol
the border area, government spokesman Alfred Mutua said in an
interview today from Nairobi, the Kenyan capital.  “There is fighting at the border, mostly on the Somali
side,” he said. “We have our troops there to make sure that the
fighting does not spill over into the Kenyan area.”  Mutua said Kenya doesn’t have any plans to send any troops
into Somalia to combat the insurgents.  Somalia hasn’t had a functioning central administration
since the ouster of former dictator Mohamed Siad Barre in 1991.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hamsa Omar in Mogadishu via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 