-- 
Sony Ericsson to Add U.S., China Developers in Android Push

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-01T08:30:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/sony-ericsson-to-invest-in-china-u-s-for-android-dominance.html
Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications
AB will add developers in the U.S. and  China  as it shifts away
from  Europe  and seeks to become the largest maker of handsets
using  Google Inc .’s Android operating system.  The company aims to expand its global share of Android
handsets to at least 25 percent from 14 percent now, Chief
Executive Officer Bert Nordberg said in an interview in Beijing
today, without specifying a timeframe. In a shift of strategy,
the venture between Japan’s  Sony Corp . and  Sweden ’s Ericsson AB
will also introduce models in the U.S. ahead of Europe, he said.  “The epicenter of the mobile industry has moved to the
West Coast of the U.S.,” Nordberg said. “When I grew up, it
was a European industry.”  Sony Ericsson, competing against  HTC Corp . and Samsung
Electronics Co. in the Android market, has more than tripled its
development staff in California to 300 in the past year while
those in Beijing jumped 60 percent to 1,600. Google’s software
is facing mounting competition after top handset maker Nokia Oyj
agreed to adopt  Microsoft Corp .’s Windows Phone 7.  “It’s a good goal, and it’s simple and clear: we are in
the Android market and we want to be number one,” said
Nordberg, 54, who became president and CEO in October 2009.
“That’s a goal for the whole company to unite around, and you
can’t reach it without the U.S.”  Software Developers  Sony Ericsson already moved Chief Technology Officer Jan Uddenfeldt to  California  eight months ago, Nordberg said. From
next month, the company’s Chief Creation Officer Rikko Sakaguchi
will also be there, he said.  Mobile-phone makers are increasingly turning to software
developers to boost demand as applications such as maps and
games become popular in smartphones.  Nokia Oyj, the world’s largest maker of mobile phones, said
last month that it plans to phase out its Symbian software
platform as it adopts Seattle-based Microsoft’s Windows Phone 7.
Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC is the world’s largest maker of
handsets using Google and Microsoft operating systems.  Sony Ericsson in January announced its first high-end
product in almost a year, Xperia Arc, a slim phone with an 8-
megapixel camera. The Xperia Play, unveiled in  Barcelona  last
month, was accompanied by the Xperia Neo, and the Xperia Pro, a
touchscreen model with a slideout Qwerty keyboard. All run
Gingerbread, the latest version of Android.  New Phones  Over the rest of this year, Sony Ericsson will announce at
least four more new phones, Nordberg said today, without
providing details on the new handsets.  As new devices are introduced, the company will
increasingly sell them in the U.S. first as the nation
represents about 45 percent of the Android market currently,
Nordberg said.  “The market has changed,” Nordberg said. “We see a lot
of our products being rolled out in the U.S. first, or in
parallel when we roll it out on the global market, which is a
change for this company. It has always come later in the U.S.
previously. That’s a change which required us to invest.”  The company plans for all eight new devices to be available
through operators in the U.S., Nordberg said, without providing
details. In China, the company plans to make them all available
through China United Network Communications Group Co., the
parent of China Unicom   Hong Kong ) Ltd., for its W-CDMA mobile
network, he said.  Xperia Play  Sony Ericsson is also in talks with China Mobile
Communications Corp. about adapting some of the new devices for
the domestically developed network, which is called TD-SCDMA.  Last month, Sony Ericsson announced the Xperia Play, a
touchscreen smartphone with slide-out Sony PlayStation console
controls, to carve out a gaming niche. That device goes on sale
in the U.S. in April and should come to China about three months
later, Nordberg said.  When the Xperia Play releases in the U.S., there will be
about 50 games available for it, Nordberg said. In China, the
company still has to set up the “ecosystem” for the device,
including an on-line store and systems for downloading and
billing for the games, he said.  --Edmond Lococo and Diana ben-Aaron. Editors: Anand
Krishnamoorthy, Young-Sam Cho  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7507 or
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at +358-9-2512-2684 or
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  