-- 
South Africa's Wool Industry Halts Weekly Sale on Foot-and-Mouth Outbreak

-- B y   L a u r e n   v a n   d e r   W e s t h u i z e n
-- 
2011-03-01T14:46:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/south-africa-s-wool-industry-may-halt-sales-due-to-foot-and-mouth-outbreak.html
  South Africa ’s wool industry
has canceled a weekly auction scheduled to take place in  Port Elizabeth  tomorrow and will assess whether to hold
further sales after exports of cattle, sheep, pigs and
their products were banned because of an outbreak of foot-
and-mouth disease.  “The country’s two biggest exporters say it’s no use
having the sale because we can’t export anything,” Ona Viljoen, a spokeswoman for Cape Wools SA, an industry body,
said from Port Elizabeth today. “This will have grave
consequences for the local wool industry.” The exporters
are G. Modiano SA and Standard Wool SA.  The decision to halt the auction was made by the South
African Wool & Mohair Buyers Association, a nine-member
group of wool and mohair buyers. South Africa’s wool
industry supports as many as 18,000 farmers who have
combined flocks of 14 million sheep and produce about 50
million kilograms (110 million pounds) of wool annually.  The Pretoria-based  Department of Agriculture, Forestry
and Fisheries  announced yesterday that it has halted
exports for at least three months after about 300 animals
tested positive for the virus in KwaZulu-Natal province.
South Africa is the world’s second-largest producer of wool
for the textile market after  Australia . Main export
destinations for the country’s wool have traditionally
included Italy, France and Japan as well as  China ,
according to the agriculture department.  Rift Valley Fever  Wool exports to China have already been halted by an
outbreak of Rift Valley Fever and a Chinese delegation due
to visit South Africa next week to discuss easing the
restrictions may now be delayed, Tina Joemat-Pettersson,
South Africa’s agriculture minister, told reporters in  Cape
Town  yesterday.  Eighty percent of wool production in South Africa is
exported in an unprocessed form. Greasy wool, as the fiber
is known, is unwashed and poses a greater health hazard
than wool that is washed and combed. Processed wool is not
affected by the export ban, Viljoen said.  The value of greasy wool exports last season was 1.34
billion rand ($193 million), she said. South Africa is half
way through its wool marketing season and has so far sold
620 million rand worth of the fiber, she said.  Job Losses  “Jobs may be lost and the long-term viability of the
wool industry may be compromised,” Cape Wools said in a
later e-mailed statement.  South African wool prices have risen 36 percent since
December, with the benchmark Cape Wools Merino Indicator
increasing 2.8 percent to 85.89 rand at an auction on Feb.
23.  London ’s Modiano and Bradford, England-based Standard
Wool bought 59 percent of the wool on sale.  The disease was detected in the KwaZulu-Natal province
while the wool industry is mostly in the neighboring
Eastern Cape province.  Mohair SA, which represents south African mohair
producers, will go ahead with a planned sale on March 8 as
85 of percent of the industry’s output is processed and
won’t therefore be affected by the ban, Deon Saayman,
general manager of the organization, said in an interview
from Port Elizabeth. South Africa is the world’s biggest
mohair producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren van der Westhuizen in Cape Town at 
 lvanderwesth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 