-- 
South Korea Inflation Rate Rises to Two-Year High, Breaching BOK's Target

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-03-02T04:28:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/south-korea-inflation-rate-rises-to-two-year-high-breaching-bok-s-target.html
South Korean inflation rose to a
two-year high in February, breaching the central bank’s 4
percent ceiling for a second month and bolstering the case for
an interest rate increase as early as next week.  The consumer-price index rose 4.5 percent from a year
earlier, after gaining 4.1 percent in January, Statistics  Korea 
said today in Gwacheon, south of Seoul. That compares with the
median estimate of 4.3 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 11
economists. Prices rose 0.8 percent from the previous month.  Some economists predict the Bank of Korea will raise rates
for the second time this year when officials meet on March 10
after unexpectedly keeping borrowing costs unchanged in February.
The government today unveiled more measures to ease price
pressures, and Vice Finance Minister Yim Jong Yong said the
country remains committed to containing inflation at 3 percent.  “This isn’t the end of the story -- the inflation rate may
exceed 5 percent in April or May, given the rally in oil
prices,” said  Park Sang Hyun , chief economist at HI Investment
& Securities Co. in Seoul. “The authorities will have to tackle
inflation pressures by raising  interest rates  as early as next
week, boosting the won and depressing domestic consumption.”  The won was little changed at at 1,128.70 per dollar in
Seoul at 12:41 p.m., according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
while the Kospi stock index dropped 0.7 percent.  Escalating unrest in the Middle East and North Africa has
driven crude oil prices to $100 a barrel, the highest since 2008.  South Korea ’s finance ministry said it will undertake an energy-
saving campaign in wake of the increase in oil costs.  Oil Price Climb  “The climb in global  oil prices  is the biggest inflation
risk to our economy,” Yim said today in Gwacheon, south of
Seoul. “I understand there are growing concerns about inflation,
but we don’t have any immediate plan to revise our 3 percent
inflation target now. We will do our best to meet the goal.”  The government also said consumer price inflation will
stabilize from next quarter as warmer weather weakens demand for
fuel and the supply of agricultural products recovers. The
government said today it will increase imports of vegetables,
meat and fish while lowering import tariffs on aluminum ingots
and cotton threads. Authorities will continue to oversee anti-
competition practices and pricing policies at oil and
telecommunication service providers, it said.  Yim also said that while increasing demand is exacerbating
inflationary pressures, the currency’s advance is helping lower
import costs. The won has risen 4.6 percent against the dollar
in the past six months.  BOK Target  The  Bank of Korea  targets inflation of 2 percent to 4
percent through 2012 and aims for the midpoint of the range in
the medium term. The central bank predicts inflation to
accelerate to 3.5 percent this year from 2.9 percent.  Consumer price gains will probably remain above 4 percent
for the rest of the year, according to Kwon Young Sun, an
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  Hong Kong . Kwon said he
expects the central bank to raise the key interest rate to 3
percent next week.  Core prices, which exclude oil and food, rose 3.1 percent
in February from a year earlier. Prices for agricultural, dairy
and fisheries goods increased 17.7 percent, today’s report
showed. Oil products climbed 12.8 percent.  Rate Increase ‘Natural’  “Given how commodity prices have been performing, we think
there is more upside risk,”  Takuji Okubo , economist at Societe
Generale SA in Tokyo, said before the report was released.
Inflation has already exceeded the BOK’s target so “it’s very
natural that the BOK will and should hike interest rates this
month.”  Food prices soared after South Korea buried nearly 9
million cattle, pigs and poultry to halt the unprecedented
spread of foot-and-mouth disease and bird flu viruses this
winter.  The expected inflation rate over the next year remained
high at 3.7 percent in February, unchanged from January,
according to a survey by the central bank.  “It’s a very difficult situation,” Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun said in parliament on Feb. 28, referring to the
country’s rising prices. “This difficulty will likely remain
for a significant period of time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  