-- 
South Korea's Exports Rise at Slowest Pace in Five Months as Demand Cools

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 
2011-03-01T00:11:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/south-korea-s-exports-rise-at-slowest-pace-in-five-months-as-demand-cools.html
South  Korea ’s exports rose at the
slowest pace in five months, raising concern that the economy is
losing momentum and giving the central bank less room to raise
interest rates.  Overseas shipments increased 17.9 percent from a year
earlier, after gaining a revised 45.4 percent in January, the
Ministry of  Knowledge Economy  said in an e-mailed statement
today. That compared with the median estimate for a 17.4 percent
gain in a Bloomberg News survey of nine economists. Imports
climbed 16.3 percent, leaving a trade surplus of $2.8 billion.  Slower growth and higher inflation may pose a bigger
dilemma for the  Bank of Korea , which pledged to keep raising
borrowing costs at its own pace after leaving them at 2.75
percent last month. The government is stepping up efforts to
stabilize prices after President  Lee Myung Bak  called for a
“war” against inflation in January.  The outlook for “the economy depends on how it can cope
with bad weather and the Middle East crisis,” Lee Sang Jae, an
economist at Hyundai Securities Co. in Seoul, said before the
release. “The BOK will have to delay the next rate hike if  oil
prices  keep rising and hurt the global economy.”  Central Bank Governor Kim Choong Soo unexpectedly left
interest rates unchanged at 2.75 percent last month even after
inflation breached the central bank’s 4 percent ceiling in
January. Kim signaled that the pause may be only temporary,
saying that the central bank will move at its own pace in
“normalizing” rates.  Difficult Situation  “It’s a very difficult situation,” Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun said in parliament yesterday, referring to the
country’s rising prices. “This difficulty will likely remain
for a significant period of time.”  Consumer prices rose 4.1 percent in January from a year
earlier, breaching the central bank’s target range of 2 percent
to 4 percent. Producer prices jumped 6.2 percent, the most in
more than two years.  Overseas shipments are equivalent to about half the economy
and boosted earnings last year at companies including Samsung
Electronics Co.,  Asia ’s biggest maker of semiconductors, flat
screens and mobile phones.  The central bank forecasts a 4.5 percent economic expansion
in 2011, slowing from the 6.1 percent pace last year, and
predicts inflation will accelerate to 3.5 percent from 2.9
percent.  Its policy board raised the benchmark interest rate by a
quarter of a percentage point in July, November and January from
a record-low 2 percent, joining counterparts from China and  India  in tightening monetary policy to fight inflation as Asia
leads the global recovery.  Asia’s fourth-largest economy expanded 0.5 percent in the
three months through December from the previous quarter, when it
grew 0.7 percent. It grew 6.1 percent in 2010 from a year
earlier, the fastest pace since 2002.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
William Sim in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  