-- 
Exxon Acquires Stakes in Faroe Island Licenses From Statoil

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-03-01T10:36:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/statoil-farms-out-stake-in-three-faroe-islands-licenses-to-exxon.html
  Exxon Mobil Corp ., the largest U.S.
oil company, agreed to enter the Faroe Islands as it bought
stakes in three exploration licenses from  Statoil ASA .  Exxon will acquire a 50 percent in licenses 009 and 011,
and 49 percent in license 006, in which P/F Atlantic Petroleum
holds 1 percent, Statoil said today in a  statement . Statoil,
based in Stavanger,  Norway , will keep the operatorship in all
licenses. Faroe Island authorities have approved the deal.  “I’m very pleased with getting such a competent and
experienced partner on board in this frontier area,” said Tim Dodson, executive vice president for exploration at Statoil.
“Both ExxonMobil and Statoil have extensive experience in
exploring in harsh environments.”  As North Sea fields mature, oil producers are exploring
harsher, more challenging environments such as the Arctic, a
region where large oil and gas deposits are estimated to remain.
The  Faroe Islands , an island group located north of  Scotland  and
west of Norway, began awarding oil licenses in 2000.  Baard Glad Pedersen, a Statoil spokesman, declined to
provide a price for the transaction when reached by phone.  Statoil, Exxon and Atlantic Petroleum plan to drill the
Brugdan exploration well in the second half of the year, Statoil
said today. Norway’s biggest oil and gas producer, which
operates six licenses in the Faroes, has drilled two wells there
to date.  “ExxonMobil looks forward to working together with
Statoil, Atlantic Petroleum and the Faroes’ authorities on this
exploration opportunity,” Russ Bellis, exploration director at
Irving, Texas-based Exxon, said in the statement. “We plan to
apply our experience and expertise to explore this area through
the application of industry-leading technologies and the highest
standards of safety.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  