-- 
Swiss Stocks Advance; Transocean Rises as Bank Shares Retreat

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-03-01T16:57:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/swiss-stocks-rally-led-by-transocean-swatch-group-richemont.html
Swiss stocks rose as reports showing
manufacturing grew in  China  and the U.S. offset data on falling
construction spending in the world’s largest economy.    Transocean Ltd . surged 2.8 percent as the U.S. permitted
deepwater drilling in the  Gulf of Mexico . Kuehne + Nagel AG, the
world’s largest sea-freight forwarder, lost 2.9 percent as Chief
Executive Reinhard Lange warned about instability in the Middle
East.  The  Swiss Market Index  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies increased 0.1 percent to 6,619.36 at the 5:30
p.m. close in Zurich. The gauge has advanced 2.9 percent this
year as corporate profits beat expectations and as investors
speculated the global economy would continue. The broader Swiss
Performance Index advanced 0.2 percent today.  “There’s a risk that the mid-term up-trend since September
last year will finish soon,” said Michael Scholz, equity
strategist at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf,  Germany . “If it’s only
consolidation we will see higher levels this week after the ECB
meeting” on Thursday, he said.  China’s Purchasing Managers’ Index for February was 52.2,
the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said today.
That’s the 24th straight month the reading has remained above
50, signaling expansion in manufacturing.  U.S. Factories  U.S. manufacturing accelerated in February to the fastest
pace since May 2004, a sign that factories are ramping up
production to meet demand. The Institute for Supply Management’s
factory index increased to 61.4 from 60.8 in January, the Tempe,
Arizona- based group said today. Readings greater than 50 signal
growth.  Construction spending in the U.S. fell more than forecast
in January, paced by the biggest slump in commercial projects in
17 years, showing the industry will continue to be a laggard in
the economic recovery.  The 0.7 percent drop brought the value of all projects down
to a $791.8 billion annual rate, the lowest since August,
Commerce Department figures showed today in Washington.  Unrest continued in the Middle East and North Africa after
opponents of Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  last week seized
control of large parts of the country. Oil for April delivery
rose 1.5 percent to $98.38 a barrel today on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  Transocean, Swatch, Sika  Transocean rallied 2.8 percent to 78.40 Swiss francs, its
third straight gain, as the U.S. approved the first deepwater
drilling in the Gulf of Mexico since a ban followed the
explosion of the Deepwater Horizon rig last year.  Yesterday, the  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management,
Regulation and Enforcement  said Houston-based  Noble Energy Inc .
won the first U.S. permit to meet new operating standards.  Swatch, the world’s largest watchmaker, gained 1 percent to
399.40 francs. The Biel, Switzerland-based company is aiming for
gross revenue in 2011 to exceed 7 billion francs ($7.5 billion),
 Le Temps  said, citing Chief Executive Nick Hayek, beating the
current estimate of 6.7 billion francs of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.    Sika AG , the largest maker of chemicals for the  construction industry , climbed 2.7 percent to 2,044 francs after
reporting net income rose to 310.9 million francs in 2010
compared with 225.7 million francs in the prior year.  UBS, Credit Suisse, K+N    UBS AG , Switzerland’s biggest bank, dropped 2 percent to
18.09 francs as a gauge of European lenders fell as much as 2.2
percent today.  Credit Suisse Group AG  slipped 1.2 percent to
42.45 francs, reversing two days of gains.  Kuehne + Nagel AG declined 2.9 percent to 121.3 francs
after reporting net income of 601 million francs that missed
analyst expectations by 9.9 million francs, according to
Bloomberg data. More unrest in the Middle East is a
“considerable problem,” Reinhard Lange said today.  Kuehne + Nagel is paying 90 million francs for RH Freight
in the U.K., Chief Financial Officer Gerard van Kesteren said
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  David Merritt  at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 