-- 
U.K. House Prices Increased 0.3% in February on Shortages, Nationwide Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-03-01T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/u-k-house-prices-increased-0-3-in-february-nationwide-says.html
U.K.  house prices  unexpectedly rose
in February as a shortage of homes for sale underpinned the
market, a report by  Nationwide Building Society  showed.  The average cost of a home increased 0.3 percent from
January to 161,183 pounds ($262,000), Britain’s biggest
customer-owned lender said today. Economists predicted a drop of
0.2 percent, according to the median estimate of 14 forecasts in
a Bloomberg News survey. Prices slipped 0.1 percent on the year.  Recent data have shown a mixed picture of the housing
market, with the fragility of the economic recovery casting a
shadow over prospects. House prices may come under further
pressure as expectations grow that the Bank of England will
increase  interest rates  to tackle soaring inflation.  “The overall picture is still one of a market treading
water,” Nationwide’s chief economist, Robert Gardner, said in
the report. “Given that the recovery hit a soft patch at the
turn of the year and looks set to remain sluggish in the year
ahead, the  property market  is likely to follow suit, with
relatively low transaction levels and prices moving sideways or
modestly lower through 2011.”  While Rightmove Plc said U.K. home sellers raised asking
prices in February by the most in four months before an expected
seasonal upturn, the Centre for Economics and Business Research
predicted last month that overall values will drop 1.7 percent
in 2011.  “Demand for homes has levelled out,” Gardner said.
“Nevertheless, there are few signs of a glut of unsold homes
building up on the market. Sellers remain reluctant to accept
lower prices to secure a sale. In fact there are tentative signs
that the volume of homes coming onto the market is slowing.”  U.K. lenders probably approved 42,900 mortgages in January,
close to their lowest level since March 2009, according to the
median of 14 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey. The  Bank of
England  will release the data at 9:30 a.m. in  London  today.  The central bank kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged
at a record low 0.5 percent last month after a meeting in which
three of its nine policy makers voted to increase the rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  