-- 
U.K. January Mortgage Approvals Increase More Than Forecast

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-03-01T09:45:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/u-k-january-mortgage-approvals-increase-more-than-forecast.html
U.K. mortgage approvals rose more
than economists forecast in January, providing further evidence
that the  property market  is stabilizing.  Lenders granted 45,723 loans to buy homes, compared with a
22-month low of 42,719 in December, the Bank of England said
today in London. Economists forecast 42,900 approvals, according
to the median of 14 predictions in a Bloomberg News survey.    Nationwide Building Society  said today Britain faces a
“sluggish” economy this year that will prevent a big rebound
in housing. The property market has faltered as the government’s
looming fiscal squeeze undermined  consumer confidence  and the
economy contracted in the fourth quarter.  “People are bracing for fiscal austerity measures and the
economy is going to be sluggish this year,” said  Alan Clarke ,
an economist at BNP Paribas in  London . “In this environment
people aren’t going to be falling over themselves to get a
mortgage.”  The pound was little changed after the report and was
trading at $1.6309 as of 9:42 a.m. in London, up 0.3 percent on
the day.  The rebound in mortgage approvals comes after heavy
snowfall in December hit activity and helped to send the
economic recovery into reverse. Gross domestic product shrank
0.6 percent in the final three months of 2010, more than a
previous estimate of 0.5 percent, the statistics office said
last week.  ‘Soft Patch’  “Given that the recovery hit a soft patch at the turn of
the year and looks set to remain sluggish in the year ahead, the
property market is likely to follow suit,” Robert Gardner,
chief economist at Nationwide, said in the statement. “Demand
for homes has leveled out.”  Nationwide said the average U.K. house price rose 0.3
percent in February, leaving it 0.1 percent lower than a year
earlier.  Today’s  Bank of England  figures show net mortgage lending
rose by 1.8 billion pounds ($2.9 billion pounds) in January and
gross lending increased 11.7 billion pounds. Consumers repaid a
net 333 million pounds of unsecured credit.  A measure of M4 money-supply growth that the central bank
uses to assess the effectiveness of its asset purchases
accelerated to 4.9 percent in the three months through January
on an annualized basis. The gauge excludes financial companies
that specialize in intermediating between banks, such as holding
companies and non-bank credit grantors. Total M4 rose 0.8
percent on the month and fell 1.7 percent on the year.  Inflation at twice the 2 percent target has split Bank of
England officials four ways on policy. The majority decided last
month to keep the key rate at a record low of 0.5 percent and
hold the bond-purchase plan at 200 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  