-- 
U.S. Thrifts Turned First Annual Profit Since 2006, OTS Says

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 
2011-03-01T18:47:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/u-s-thrifts-had-6-6-billion-profit-last-year-first-since-2006-ots-says.html
U.S. saving-and-loans turned their
first annual profit since 2006 as lenders recovered from the
credit crisis, according to the Office of Thrift Supervision,
the industry regulator being eliminated by the Dodd-Frank Act.  Thrifts overseen by the OTS posted total profits of $1.75
billion in the three-month period that ended Dec. 31, bringing
the year’s total to $6.6 billion, the Washington-based regulator
said today in a statement. The year’s earnings compared with a
loss of $34 million in 2009, the OTS said.  “Although the thrift industry continues to face some
headwinds, the first yearly profit since the onset of the
financial crisis represents a welcome signal of how far we have
come,” OTS Acting Director John Bowman said in the statement.  Lenders returned to profitability last year even as they
faced challenges amid high unemployment rates and persistent
sluggishness in the housing market, the OTS said. The agency,
which is being merged into the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency under Dodd-Frank, included 58 thrifts on its quarterly
list of “problem” lenders required to boost capital and
liquidity, an increase from 53 three months earlier. All but
eight thrifts were deemed “well-capitalized,” the OTS said.  The OTS was targeted in the financial-regulation overhaul
after lawmakers accused it of lax oversight before the failures
of Washington Mutual Inc. and Indymac Bancorp Inc. in 2008. The
agency also regulated the American International Group Inc. unit
whose losing bets on the mortgage market pushed the insurer to
the brink of collapse.  The quarterly report follows a Feb. 23 Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. release showing that U.S. banks posted profit of
$21.7 billion in the fourth quarter, boosting earnings for the
full year to the highest level since 2007.  The OTS, an arm of the U.S. Treasury Department, supervised
731 thrifts with a combined $931.7 billion in assets at the end
of the fourth quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  