-- 
U.S. Construction Spending Falls on Slump in Commercial Works

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-03-01T15:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/u-s-construction-spending-falls-on-slump-in-commercial-works.html
Construction spending in the U.S.
fell more than forecast in January, paced by the biggest slump in
commercial projects in 17 years, showing the industry will
continue to be a laggard in the economic recovery.  The 0.7 percent drop brought the value of all projects down
to a $791.8 billion annual rate, the lowest since August,
Commerce Department figures showed today in Washington. Outlays
on private non-residential works dropped 6.9 percent, the most
since January 1994, which may in part reflect the influence of
winter storms.  Construction of  power plants , hospitals, hotels and office
buildings dropped during the month as tight credit and high
vacancy rates restrained investment. Outlays on home improvements
helped boost residential construction, a sign more Americans are
deciding to stay in their current houses.  “Office vacancies are high and  consumer spending  is weak,
making the need to expand into shopping centers fairly limited,”
Neill Dutta, an economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global
Research in  New York , said before the report. “Housing starts
have been picking up from very low levels.”  The median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey
called for a 0.4 percent decline and reflected responses from 49
economists. Estimates ranged from a drop of 2 percent to an
increase of 0.8 percent. The Commerce Department revised the
December reading up to a 1.6 percent drop from a previously
estimated decline of 2.5 percent.  Private Construction  Private construction spending fell 1.2 percent in January
from the prior month. Homebuilding outlays increased 5.3 percent,
including an 11 percent jump in home improvement.  Spending on public construction fell 0.1 percent, the report
said. Federal construction spending increased 9.1 percent.  Weather may have played a role in the slump. January was the
fifth snowiest such month in 45 years of satellite coverage,
according to the National Climatic Data Center. About 71 percent
of the country had snow by Jan. 12.  Housing starts have been picking up since reaching a low in
April 2009. Starts rose 15 percent last month to a 596,000 rate,
the Commerce Department said last week.  More distressed homes may come on the market this year after
home seizures were delayed due to state investigations and bank
reviews of foreclosures. The number of homes receiving a
foreclosure notice will climb about 20 percent in 2011, reaching
a peak for the housing crisis, RealtyTrac Inc., an Irvine,
California-based data seller, said last month.  Home Prices  That will put more pressure on prices. The S&P/Case-Shiller
index of home values in 20 cities fell 2.4 percent in December
from a year earlier, the biggest 12-month decrease since December
2009, the group said last week. Prices were down 31 percent from
their peak in July 2006.  Homebuilders are still showing losses. D.R. Horton Inc., the
second-largest U.S. homebuilder by stock-market value, on Jan. 27
reported a fiscal first-quarter loss that was wider than analysts
expected.  “We need job growth, we need consumer confidence and we
still have issues with qualifying people with tighter mortgage
underwriting” standards, D.R. Horton Chief Executive Officer
Donald Tomnitz said during a conference call the same day.  Government agencies are under pressure to cut spending.
States are projecting $125 billion of budget deficits in fiscal
2012 and will lose most federal stimulus funds this year, the
Washington-based Center on Budget and Policy Priorities said in a
Jan. 21 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  