-- 
U.S. Arrests 678 With Foreign Drug-Trafficker Ties in Largest-Ever Sweep

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-03-01T20:54:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/u-s-arrests-678-with-foreign-drug-trafficker-ties-in-largest-ever-sweep.html
The U.S. arrested 678 gang members
and associates, including 421 foreign nationals, tied to foreign
drug traffickers in the largest operation of its kind, a federal
immigration official said.  Federal and local law enforcement authorities in 168 U.S.
cities rounded up people from 13 gangs linked to Mexican drug
organizations,  Immigration and Customs Enforcement  Director  John Morton  told reporters in Washington today. The crackdown, called
Project Southern Tempest, began in December and ended in
February, he said.  “The gang members we arrested in this latest operation are
not people we want walking the streets,” Morton said.  In addition to the 678 gang members apprehended, 164 people
were arrested for criminal and administrative immigration
violations, Morton said. Including Project Southern Tempest, the
U.S. has arrested 20,000 gang members since an effort to capture
those with connections to international criminal organizations
began in 2005, Morton said.  Separately, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and
Explosives agents arrested three men on federal firearms
charges, linking one to a weapon used in the assault that killed
ICE Special Agent Jaime Zapata in  Mexico  on Feb. 15, U.S.
Attorney James Jacks of the Northern District of Texas said
today.  One of the men, Otilio Osorio, 22, bought the firearm used
in the killing, Jacks said in a statement. The other men
arrested were Otilio’s brother, Ranferi Osorio, 27, and Kelvin
Leon Morrison, 25.  On Feb. 24,  Drug Enforcement Administration  officials said
they arrested 100 people and seized more than $4 million in a
nationwide sweep against drug cartels. That initiative was
sparked in part by Zapata’s death.  Mexican authorities captured suspects in Zapata’s murder
who they said were linked to the Zetas drug cartel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in  Washington  at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  