-- 
Congress Approves Temporary Funding Bill Preventing a Government Shutdown

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-03-02T21:59:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/u-s-house-to-vote-on-stopgap-budget-bill-to-prevent-government-shutdown.html
The  U.S. Congress  approved a budget
bill that will prevent a government shutdown for now while
lawmakers negotiate over Republican demands to further cut
federal spending this year.  The Senate voted 91-9 to send the measure to President  Barack Obama , who signed it this afternoon. The bill, which
reduces spending by $4 billion, passed the House yesterday by a
335-91  vote . Current  government spending  authority would expire
March 4 and the legislation extends that to March 18.  “We’re going to keep working toward a solution” for the
rest of this fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30, Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid  said before the vote. “This time around it
may not include everything Democrats want or everything the
Republicans want, but we need to have a compromise.”  Democrats had sought a monthlong extension to give
lawmakers more time to work out their differences on funding
agencies for the next seven months.  Obama said in a statement he was pleased with today’s
extension while adding: “Living with the threat of a shutdown
every few weeks is not responsible, and it puts our economic
progress in jeopardy.”  The president called on congressional leaders of both
parties to meet with Vice President  Joe Biden , White House Chief
of Staff  William Daley  and Budget Director Jack Lew to work on a
longer-term budget agreement.  $61 Billion Reduction  House Speaker  John Boehner  didn’t immediately accept
Obama’s invitation to talks.  “It’s time” for Senate Democrats to outline their
position, Boehner of  Ohio  told reporters. “Americans have a
right to know, where is the Democrats’ plan?”  Lawmakers will have significant issues to resolve. The
House last month approved a Republican plan to cut $61 billion
from 2011 government spending, which would mean reductions of 10
percent or more in hundreds of programs. Democrats say those
cuts would go too far and would harm the economic recovery.  Also in dispute are a number of policy items -- such as a
ban on funds for Obama’s health-care overhaul and for Planned
Parenthood -- that  House Republicans  attached to the longer-term
budget bill.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said the agreement on the short-term measure was “a
small step, but it’s a step in the right direction.”  ‘Superhuman Effort’  Reid said today he was pleased that Biden will be taking a
role in negotiations.  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , the second-
ranking Senate Democrat, said it will take a “superhuman
effort” to agree on a spending bill for the rest of the year in
the next two weeks.  The Senate yesterday approved legislation that would cut
off pay to lawmakers and the president if the government shuts
down, an effort to spur compromise on spending levels. Senator  Barbara Boxer , a California Democrat, said it wasn’t fair that
current law would allow lawmakers to continue receiving
paychecks even as other federal employees stopped getting
salaries.  Earlier today, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  told a
House committee that the Republicans’ $61 billion budget-cutting
bill would result in the loss of a “couple of hundred thousand
jobs,” less than the 700,000 jobs predicted by Moody’s Analytics
chief economist  Mark Zandi .  Goldman Sachs  Last week, a Goldman Sachs report said the Republican
proposal would reduce economic growth by 1.5 to 2 percentage
points during the second and third quarters of this year.  Republicans, trying to pressure Democrats to agree to big
cuts, pointed to a Government Accountability Office  report 
released yesterday that described scores of duplicative and
wasteful federal programs. According to the report, 15 agencies
oversee food-safety laws, at least four departments administer
80 economic development programs, and the Department of
Transportation runs more than 100 highway, rail, safety and
transit programs.  “This report confirms what most Americans assume about
their government,” said Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma
Republican. “This report also shows we could save taxpayers
hundreds of billions of dollars every year without cutting
services.”  The $4 billion spending cut in the stopgap spending bill
would carve $1.3 billion out of the budget by canceling unspent
highway funding and cutting four Department of Education
programs, a broadband program and state-election grants. The
Obama administration proposed those changes in its budget
request last month.  Pet Projects  The rest of the $4 billion in savings would come by
rescinding unspent money for lawmakers’ pet projects, which both
parties have said they will abandon.  The plan would cut spending at the same rate as the $61
billion proposal, allowing Republicans to say they are making
progress on keeping campaign promises to roll back non-security
discretionary spending to 2008 levels. The measure was opposed
in the House by six Republicans and 85 Democrats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  