-- 
U.S. Auditors Say Duplicate Programs Cost Billions

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-03-02T18:49:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/u-s-auditors-say-duplicate-ineffective-programs-cost-billions.html
(Corrects title of GAO in second paragraph of story that
moved March 1.)  In 2007, the U.S. Agriculture
Department paid $1.1 billion in  farm subsidies  to 170,000 dead
people. Fifteen federal agencies now oversee 30 food laws, and
at least four departments compete to administer 80 economic
development programs.  The Government Accountability Office released a  345-page
report  today combing the federal catalog of government programs
to uncover what it said was evidence of waste and duplication
that cost taxpayers billions of dollars each year.  Republican Senator  Tom Coburn , who requested the GAO report
as part of last year’s vote to raise the nation’s debt limit,
said it confirms the government is “spending trillions of
dollars every year and nobody knows what we are doing.”  “This report also shows we could save taxpayers hundreds
of billions of dollars every year without cutting services,”
Coburn, of  Oklahoma , said in a statement. The GAO “has
identified a mother lode of government waste and duplication
that should keep Congress busy for the rest of the year.”  The report, “Opportunities to Reduce Potential Duplication
in Government Programs, Save Tax Dollars and Enhance Revenue”
was issued as lawmakers today debate spending cuts in a two-week
stopgap budget measure for the government.  Beyond the stopgap measure,  House Republicans  have called
for $61 billion in cuts for the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30.
They face opposition from the Democrats who control the Senate,
who say the reductions are too extreme and would slash needed
programs in education and regulatory enforcement.  Cost of Duplication  While the GAO report didn’t provide a specific estimate on
the cost of waste and duplication, Coburn said it is likely to
reach at least $100 billion. The report is the first of what
will be annual studies on the matter.  The auditors found 34 broad areas of duplication in federal
programs including  food safety  and domestic food assistance.  Investigators also said there were 47 additional areas,
beyond those related to overlapping programs, where savings
could be made.  “Reducing or eliminating duplication, overlap or
fragmentation could potentially save billions of tax dollars
annually and help agencies provide more efficient and effective
services,” Gene L. Dodaro, comptroller general, said in his
report to Congress.  In one example, the report said the Defense Department
could save as much as $460 million annually by restructuring its
health-care system.  Lack of Coordination  Among the examples of mismanagement and waste in the
report cited by Coburn are a lack of coordination among eight
agencies on defenses against biological terror threats; special
tax breaks totaling $1 trillion that are often redundant; and
$6.5 billion for economic development programs with little
evidence of success.  Auditors compiled their report from February 2010 through
last month. Some conclusions were drawn from reports earlier in
the decade.  President  Barack Obama  attacked waste and duplication in
his State of the Union address and has ordered the Office of
Management and Budget to begin laying a blueprint for government
reorganization to eliminate waste.  There are 12 different agencies that deal with exports and
five that deal with housing policy, Obama said in his speech.  Home for Salmon  “Then there’s my favorite example: The Interior Department
is in charge of salmon while they’re in fresh water, but the
Commerce Department handles them when they’re in saltwater. I
hear it gets even more complicated once they’re smoked,” the
president said to laughter and applause.  Fifteen federal agencies collectively administer at least
30 food-related laws, according to the GAO. The Agriculture
Department is responsible for the safety of meat, poultry,
processed egg products and catfish. If it involves seafood or
almost any other food, the responsibility goes to the  Food and
Drug Administration .  Last year’s nationwide recall of more than 500 million eggs
because of salmonella, for example, was handled by the FDA,
because it ensures the safety of shell eggs.  The USDA ensures the health of the young chicks that are
supplied to egg farms, while the FDA oversees the safety of the
feed they eat.  “Oversight is also fragmented in other areas of the food
safety system,” GAO said, citing USDA responsibility for
catfish and the FDA oversight of seafood.  Biological Attacks  In another example, the GAO said that to deal with a
biological attack on the U.S. there are more than two dozen
presidentially appointed people in charge. They are spread among
the Departments of Agriculture, Defense,  Homeland Security ,
Interior and other agencies.  On a single night in January 2009, there were about 643,000
homeless people, the report said. At least seven agencies spent
about $2.9 billion on more than 20 programs in 2009 to help the
homeless with shelter or housing aid.  “Some programs may offer similar types of services and
serve similar populations, potentially leading to overlap and
fragmentation,” the GAO said.  In the area of  job creation , there are about 80 economic
development programs spread among the Departments of Commerce,
Agriculture, Housing and  Urban Development  and the Small
Business administration.  Those 80 programs cost $6.5 billion last year. Of that
amount, $3.2 billion were for economic development, in the form
of grants, loans and loan guarantees. About 52 of the programs
were aimed at “entrepreneurial efforts.”  Of the 80 programs, auditors said “the design of each of
these fragmented programs appears to overlap with that of at
least one other.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Cathy Dodge in Washington at 
 Cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 