-- 
U.S. Senate Poised to Call for Libya No-Fly Zone, Qaddafi Ouster

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-03-01T23:54:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/u-s-senate-poised-to-call-for-libya-no-fly-zone-qaddafi-ouster.html
The  U.S. Senate  called for
imposition of a no-fly zone over Libya, unanimously approving a
non-binding resolution that also endorsed U.S. outreach to
forces opposing Muammar Qaddafi’s regime.  Senators  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat, and Mark Steven Kirk, an Illinois Republican, teamed on the measure,
which passed today without debate or a roll-call vote. With
turmoil escalating in Libya and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  telling lawmakers on  Capitol Hill  that all options to
address it are on the table, Senate leaders moved swiftly to
register their official condemnation of the longtime Libyan
leader.  Kirk said he backed the Obama administration’s moves so far
against the Libyan regime, including freezing its assets and
pushing for a unanimous United Nations  Security Council 
resolution imposing sanctions.  “Now the  United States  should do more,” he said in a
statement. “There is a bipartisan consensus building to provide
assistance to liberated areas of Libya and to work with our
allies to enforce a no-fly zone.”  The resolution denounces Qaddafi for “gross and systematic
violations of human rights,” describes his regime as “a brutal
dictatorship,” and urges him to resign.  It calls on the Security Council to take action to protect
civilians in Libya, including imposition of a no-fly zone. It
also says the Senate “welcomes the outreach that has begun by
the United States government to Libyan opposition figures and
supports an orderly, irreversible” transition to democratic
government in Libya.  Pan Am 103  “Qaddafi stands alone.  The world stands united against
him and his regime’s brutality,” Menendez said in a statement.
He also called the 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103, which
killed 270 people, part of Qaddafi’s “track record of terror.”  During a hearing of the House Foreign Affairs Committee
today, Clinton said the government would consider prosecuting
Qaddafi for the bombing -- a statement that elicited praise from
lawmakers.  “I fully support the administration’s intent to consider
prosecution of  Muammar Qaddafi  for the Pan Am Flight 103
bombing, which resulted in the deaths of 190 Americans, as well
as implementation of unilateral sanctions against Colonel
Qaddafi and his regime, including freezing assets, imposing a
travel ban on senior officials, and suspending military aid,”
Representative Nita Lowey of  New York , the top Democrat on the
House Appropriations subcommittee that oversees foreign aid
spending, said in a statement.  Abdel Basset al-Megrahi, a former Libyan intelligence
officer, was convicted of murder in Scotland in 2001 for his
role in the bombing. He was released on compassionate grounds in
2009 after medical experts said he was expected to die within
three months because of advanced prostate cancer. He returned to  Libya , where he was greeted by cheering crowds, and is still
alive.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  