-- 
U.S. Supreme Court Backs Job-Discrimination Suits in Fired Reservist Case

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-03-01T20:58:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/u-s-high-court-backs-suits-claiming-anti-military-job-bias-1-.html
The U.S. Supreme Court gave a boost
to workers claiming discrimination, ruling for an Army reservist
who says he was fired from his civilian job as a medical
technician because of his membership in the military.  The high court unanimously  said  Vincent Staub could press
his case even though the supervisors he accused of having the
anti-military bias weren’t the ones who made the final decision
to fire him. The justices told a lower court to either reinstate
a jury verdict favoring Staub or order a new trial.  The ruling centered on the Uniformed Services Employment
and Reemployment Rights Act, which bars anti-military bias in
the workplace. The court’s reasoning also may help workers suing
under Title VII, the more frequently used law that bars race and
gender discrimination in the workplace.  “There is every reason to believe that the ruling could
and would be extended to the Title VII context,” said Rae Vann,
a  Washington  lawyer who represents the Equal Employment Advisory
Council, a group representing more than 300 of the largest
private-sector employers.  Staub worked as an angioplasty technician at Proctor
Hospital in central Illinois while also serving in the reserves
and being called to active duty in 2003. He says that both his
immediate supervisor and her boss were hostile toward his
reserve obligations. Staub also says they influenced the 2004
decision of a different company official to fire him for leaving
his post in the angioplasty lab.  Jury Award  A jury sided with Staub and he was awarded $57,640 in
damages. A federal appeals court reversed the verdict, saying he
needed to show that the biased supervisors exercised “singular
influence” over the official who fired him.  USERRA, as the law is known, says an employer can be sued
if a worker’s military membership was a “motivating factor”
behind a negative job decision.  Writing for the court, Justice  Antonin Scalia  said that
phrase meant an employer can be held responsible if a biased
supervisor succeeds in causing a worker to be fired or punished.  “An employer’s authority to reward, punish or dismiss is
often allocated among multiple agents,” Scalia wrote. “The one
who makes the ultimate decision does so on the basis of
performance assessments by other supervisors.”  Title VII contains similar “motivating factor” language.
Another federal job-bias law, the Age Discrimination in
Employment Act, doesn’t include that phrase, and is less likely
to be affected by today’s ruling, Vann said.  Happy Lawyer  Staub’s lawyer, Eric Schnapper, disagreed with that
assessment, saying the ruling would likely apply “across the
board” to all federal job-bias statutes.  “This represents the view of the law that we urged the
court to adopt,” said Schnapper, a professor at the  University
of Washington  School of Law in  Seattle . “We’re happy with it in
every respect.”  Justices Samuel Alito and  Clarence Thomas  issued a separate
opinion, agreeing with the result in the Staub case while saying
they would have done more to shield employers from suit.  “The court’s holding will impose liability unfairly on
employers who make every effort to comply with the law, and it
may have the perverse effect of discouraging employers from
hiring applicants who are members of the Reserves or the
National Guard,” Alito wrote for the pair.  The case is Staub v. Proctor Hospital, 09-400.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 