-- 
UN General Assembly Suspends Libya From Human Rights Panel

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-03-01T21:55:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/un-general-assembly-suspends-libya-from-human-rights-council.html
The  United Nations General Assembly ,
consisting of all 192 member nations, decided today to suspend  Libya  from the Geneva-based UN  Human Rights Council  because of
attacks on protesters by  Muammar Qaddafi ’s regime.  The resolution, adopted without a recorded vote because no
nation asked for that formality to be observed, noted that the
council’s bylaws provide for suspending a country’s membership
for “gross and systematic” violations of human rights. It
marked the first suspension of a council member.  “This is a harsh rebuke, but one that Libya’s leaders have
brought down upon themselves,” U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice said.
“The U.S. continues to be appalled by the situation in Libya.
This unprecedented action sends another clear warning to Mr.
Qaddafi and those who still stand by him: They must stop
killing.”  Action in the General Assembly followed the  Human Rights
Council ’s adoption of a measure on Feb. 25 recommending that
Libya be suspended and for an international committee to
investigate human rights violations in the country.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has said that more than
1,000 Libyans have died in the protests against Qaddafi and that
his regime is guilty of “serious transgressions” of
international human rights and humanitarian law.  “We demand an immediate end of the violence against
civilians and full respect for their fundamental human rights,
including those of peaceful assembly and free speech,” Ban told
the General Assembly.  ‘Clear Incitement’  “The latest reports from the ground are sobering,” Ban
said. “I am gravely concerned at the continuing loss of life,
the ongoing repression of the people and the clear incitement of
violence against the civilian population.”    Venezuela ’s Ambassador Jorge Valero followed the action by
attacking the Obama administration’s movement of naval assets
into position around Libya.  “We urge peace-loving countries in all regions of the
world to put a stop to the invasion plans against Libya,”
Valero said. “Its purpose is clear: to appropriate the vast
potential of natural and energy resources that are stored in the
motherland of the Libyan people.” He said the U.S. wants to
turned Libya into a “‘protectorate” to seize its oil.  ‘Ugly Distortion’  Rice said the U.S. “utterly rejects the willful and ugly
distortion by the Venezuelan delegation” of the U.S.’s policy.
“At a time when this assembly is acting in unison to support
the Libyan people, it is shameful that one member state whose
own reprehensible record speaks for itself would manipulate this
occasion to spread lies, foster fear and sew hate.”  The UN  Security Council  voted 15-0 on Feb. 26 to impose an
arms embargo on Libya and a travel ban and asset freeze on
Qaddafi, his top aides and close family members.  The U.S. was elected to the Human Rights Council in 2009
after President  George W. Bush  decided not to be a candidate for
membership when the 47-nation body was established in 2006. The  Bush administration  was concerned that it would have an anti-
Israel bias and include nations, such as current members China
and Cuba, which have been accused of human rights abuses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Varner in Washington at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  