-- 
Hungary's `Vague' Budget Plan Triggers Biggest Bond Slump in Two Weeks

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-03-01T16:57:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/hungary-stocks-tumble-as-government-to-delay-corporate-tax-cuts.html
Hungarian bonds fell, raising yields
by the most in more than two weeks after the government provided
fewer details on spending reductions than analysts had expected.
Stocks fell and the forint weakened for the first day in four.  The yield on government notes due February 2015 climbed 12
basis points to 6.937 percent, the most since Feb 9. The BUX
Index slid 1.8 percent by the 5 p.m. close in Budapest after
earlier tumbling as much as 2.3 percent. The forint weakened 0.6
percent to 272.71 per euro.  While Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government announced
900 billion forint ($4.6 billion) of annual budget savings by
2013 through cuts to pensions and welfare, investors were
looking for detail on the timing and items to be cut, according
to UniCredit SpA. The European Union’s most indebted eastern
member delayed plans cut corporate and bank taxes, according to
a government document given to reporters in Budapest today.  “It appears more vague on the expenditure side than on the
revenue side,”  Gaelle Blanchard , an emerging-markets strategist
at Societe Generale SA, said by telephone from London. “The
timing of the implementation is also not so clear.”    Hungary  needs a structural overhaul rather than fiscal
austerity as “austerity packages lead nowhere,” Deputy Prime
Minister Tibor Navracsics said at a conference today.  The government aims to narrow the  budget deficit  to 1.9
percent of gross domestic product in 2014 from 2.94 percent in
2011, according to the plan presented today. The budget measures
will slow inflation, lower credit-default swaps and  interest
rates  and allow the central bank to reduce borrowing costs,
according to the document.  Forint ‘Vulnerable’  Public debt will fall to less than 70 percent of GDP in
2013 and below 60 percent in 2016, according to the plan. The
government said it seeks to curb early retirement and wants to
cover pension payouts entirely from contributions, with the new
system taking effect on Jan. 1, 2012.  “Their plans seem to focus on tax hikes rather than
spending cuts,” Ilan Solot, emerging-markets strategist at
Brown Brothers Harriman in  London , wrote in a research report
today. “Unless more details on spending cuts are announced, the
forint will be vulnerable and risk giving back the recent
gains.”  Orban’s government has relied on temporary industry taxes
and the state takeover of private pension funds to narrow its
budget shortfall. Moody’s Investors Service,  Fitch Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s  all rate Hungary’s credit at the lowest
investment grade with a negative outlook.  ‘Nothing Concrete’  “We only know headline figures, but nothing concrete on
how they are going to save the amounts,” said  Daniel Bebesy ,
who helps oversee $1.5 billion of assets at Budapest Investment
Management. “The government keeps promising big announcements
all the time and then fails to deliver.”  The government is working on a plan to freeze the  exchange
rate  against the franc on foreign-currency loans until 2014 to
protect borrowers and may set the rate at 190 forint,  Hirszerzo 
news website reported today, citing unnamed bankers.  “This is not confirmed at all but generates some negative
sentiment,” Gillian Edgeworth in London and Gyula Toth in
Vienna, analysts with UniCredit SpA, wrote in a report to
clients today.  Robert Szabo, a spokesman at the  Economy Ministry , had no
immediate comment on the Hirszerzo report when contacted by
phone by Bloomberg.  OTP Bank Nyrt., the country’s biggest lender, declined as
much as 4.3 percent and closed down 3.4 percent at 5,679 forint,
the biggest one-day drop since Nov. 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  