-- 
Hungary Budget Savings May Exceed Expectations, UniCredit Says

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-03-01T09:42:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/hungary-budget-savings-may-exceed-expectations-unicredit-says.html
  Hungary ’s government may save more
money in the near term than analysts and investors anticipated,
producing a positive market reaction, UniCredit SpA said.  The government plans to improve the budget balance by 550
billion forint ($2.8 billion) in 2012 and by 902 billion forint
annually in 2013 and 2014, the news website  HVG  said yesterday,
citing unidentified ruling-party officials. The figures include
90 billion forint of spending from private-pension funds in
2012, which would grow to 220 billion forint in 2013 and 2014.
Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  will present the plan at 11
a.m. in Budapest.  “If confirmed by the final announcement, we see the size of
the package exceeding market expectations of around 600-800
billion forint and we see it much less back-loaded than it was
feared,”  Gyula Toth , a Vienna-based UniCredit strategist, said
in a an e-mail today. “Although the headline numbers are
inflated by the pension ‘savings,’ we expect positive market
reaction at the open, particularly in the  bond market .”  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban , who has relied on temporary
industry taxes and the effective nationalization of private
pension portfolios to reach budget targets, may backtrack today
from an election pledge to avoid austerity to save Hungary from
having its  credit rating  being cut to junk. Moody’s Investors
Service,  Fitch Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s  all rate Hungary’s
credit one step above junk with a negative outlook.  Forint Gains  The forint appreciated 0.5 percent to 269.72 per euro by
9:29 a.m. in Budapest, the strongest intraday trading level
since Feb. 21 and the fourth straight day of gains. The  government bonds  maturing in 2020 gained, pushing the yield 2
basis point lower to 7.243 percent, the lowest since Nov. 15.  Orban wants to reduce  government borrowing  in the European
Union’s most indebted eastern nation after winning elections
last year on a pledge to boost growth and end five years of
austerity. Credit-rating companies have said Hungary, the first
EU country to obtain an IMF-led bailout in 2008, needs to take
additional measures to prevent the budget gap from widening in
the coming years after temporary taxes are phased out.  The Cabinet aims to use 63 percent of the approximately 3
trillion forint of funds in private pension portfolios, which it
funneled to the budget, to reduce the debt level to between 65
percent and 70 percent of gross domestic product from 80
percent, HVG said without giving a time frame.  The government plans to cut  unemployment benefits , reduce
spending on pensions and drug subsidies and boost employment,
Index news portal said.  Budget Details  The budget balance may improve from 2013 by as much as 213
billion forint annually as a result of “employment policies,”
by 129 billion forint from “further pension reforms,” by 60
billion forint from savings in public transportation spending
and by 38 billion forint in savings in higher education, HVG
said. The Cabinet also plans to cut drug subsidies by 120
billion forint annually from 2013, it said. The savings would
start in 2012 and peak in 2013 and 2014, according to HVG.  “The size of the package is in line with expectations even
if we deduct the one-off revenues, but there could be a huge
risk in the execution,” David Nemeth, a Budapest-based
economist at ING Groep NV, said in an e-mail.  Investors are expecting budget savings of about 600 billion
forint to 800 billion forint, or 2-3 percent of gross domestic
product, Pasquale Diana, a London-based economist for Morgan
Stanley, said in a note to clients yesterday.  Sustainable Budget  Hungary needs spending cuts to make its budget sustainable
after “temporary and ‘distortionary” steps including the taxes
on the banking, energy, telecommunications and industry and
directing private-pension fund assets to the state, the
 International Monetary Fund  said in a report published Feb. 3.
Without the redirected pension funds, this year’s budget
shortfall would widen to 5.1 percent of GDP, the IMF said.  The government probably missed its 3.8 percent of GDP
shortfall target last year, which probably came in at about 4.2
percent, central bank President Andras Simor said on Feb. 21.  Hungary, with government debt level of 80 percent of gross
domestic product at the end of last year, has exceeded the EU’s
3 percent budget-deficit limit every year since joining the bloc
in 2004. The country doesn’t have a target date for adopting the
euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  