-- 
Hungary's Government Plans Spending Cuts, Overhaul in `Attack' on Debt

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-03-01T13:22:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/hungary-s-budget-plan-sets-out-to-narrow-deficit-to-1-9-of-gdp-by-2014.html
Hungary’s government, seeking to
avoid a credit downgrade to junk, plans to cut spending by as
much as $4.6 billion a year from 2013 in what Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said was an “attack” on government debt.  Savings will reach 900 billion forint ($4.6 billion)
annually in 2013 and 2014, starting with 550 billion forint in
2012, Matolcsy told an audience in Budapest today. Measures will
include delaying a cut in the corporate income tax, extending a
bank tax and tighter retirement and welfare rules. The forint
snapped a four-day rally, stocks fell and bond yields rose.  “The headline number would be impressive, just shy of 3
percent of" gross domestic product, "but the devil is in the
detail and while the rhetoric is impressive, detail is short and
thin,"  Neil Shearing , an analyst at  Capital Economics  in  London ,
said by phone. "This absolutely justifies caution and shows that
the package is underwhelming.”  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  previously relied on temporary
industry taxes and the channeling of private pension portfolios
to the state to reach budget targets. Moody’s Investors Service,  Fitch Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s  all rate Hungary’s credit
one step above junk with a negative outlook. The country has the
highest debt level in the eastern parts of the European Union.  Forint, Stocks  The forint weakened 0.6 percent to 272.59 per euro by 1:20
p.m. in Budapest, the first loss in four days, reversing gains
of as much as 0.5 percent earlier today. The benchmark BUX stock
index fell 1 percent to 23,927.19 as OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s
largest lender, fell 2.4 percent while  Richter Gedeon Nyrt. 
dropped 1.3 percent. The slump in the  government bonds  due in
2020 pushed the yield 9 basis points higher to 7.358 percent.  Orban wants to reduce  government borrowing  after winning
elections last year on a pledge to boost growth and end five
years of austerity. Credit-rating companies have said Hungary,
the first EU country to obtain a bailout led by the  International Monetary Fund  in 2008, needs additional measures
to prevent the budget gap from widening after temporary taxes on
banks, energy, retail and telecommunication companies end.  "We decided that we have to attack government debt, which
is the main problem, the root of our problems," Matolcsy said.
"We must fight against government debt."  EU Deficit Limit    Hungary , with government debt level of 80 percent of gross
domestic product at the end of last year, has exceeded the EU’s
3 percent budget-deficit limit every year since joining the bloc
in 2004. The country doesn’t have a target date for adopting the
euro.  The government plans to delay a cut in the corporate  tax
rate  to 10 percent from 19 percent for companies that earn more
than 500 million forint a year, forego a planned reduction in
the bank tax in 2012, cut drug subsidies, boost employment and
reduce pension spending to improve the budget balance, Matolcsy
said.  The Cabinet aims to cut the number of people on
disabilities pensions and reduce the number of those who go into
early retirement. Public works projects are planned to get
people off of welfare payments.  The result will be government debt falling to less than 70
percent of output in 2013 and below 60 percent in 2016, he said.
The target for the annual shortfall is 2.5 percent of output
next year, 2.2 percent in 2013 and 1.9 percent in 2014, compared
with 2.94 percent in 2011.  ‘Lack of Detail’  “Implementation risks are high due to the lack of detail
so far,” Gabor Orban, who helps manage $4 billion in emerging
European debt at Aegon Fund Management in Budapest, said in an
e-mail. “Some interpret this lack of detail as reflecting weak
commitment from the government, but it could be just the nature
of these reforms that they are less transparent and take longer
to implement.”  The government seeks to curb early retirement and wants to
cover pension payouts entirely from contributions, according to
the plan, which set Jan. 1, 2012 as the deadline for the new
system to take effect. The government expects the budget
measures to slow inflation, lower credit-default swap spreads
and  interest rates , while allowing the central bank to lower
borrowing costs, according to the plan.  “On balance, we can say that the package is lukewarm,
which also seems to be the market’s view based on the forint’s
initial reaction,”  Gyorgy Barta , a Budapest-based economist at
CIB Bank Zrt., a unit of  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA , said in an e-mail.
“Further details are needed on the concrete measures, for
example where the government’s numbers exactly stem from.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  