-- 
Uranium Rises 1.5% as Supplies Show Signs of Thinning, UxC Says

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-03-01T02:07:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/uranium-rises-1-5-as-supplies-show-signs-of-thinning-uxc-says.html
Uranium prices gained 1.5 percent as
supplies of the nuclear fuel in the  spot market  show signs of
thinning, according to  Ux Consulting Co.   Uranium-oxide concentrate for immediate delivery traded at
$69.75 a pound in the seven days ended yesterday, up from $68.75
the week before, UxC said in an e-mailed report today, based on
the most competitive offer tracked by the Roswell, Georgia-based
company. That compares with $72.25 on Feb. 15, according to UxC.  “Indications show that price is beginning to firm,” UxC
said. “Not only are offers up, but they are showing a stepped
progression with higher prices in later months. Spot activity
continues, with the supply side once again thinning.”  Uranium prices, which rose to a record $136 a pound in 2007
before falling to about $40, have gained since mid-2010 as China
increased the use of nuclear power to curb emissions from
burning coal. More than 150 new reactors are planned worldwide
by 2030, with  China  expected to add 110 units, according to data
compiled by the  World Nuclear Association .  Prices of uranium climbed 17 percent in January and fell
4.5 percent last month. Selling from China contributed to the
February decline, according to UxC.  “As spot prices started to fall, additional demand entered
the market, picking up a good bit of this supply,” UxC said.
“While both sides of the market still appear to be generally
thin, spot volume continues to rack up.”  Nuclear-power utilities buy the bulk of their uranium for
processing into fuel from mining companies, with the contracts
mostly extending beyond a year. The immediate delivery, or spot
market, allows trading for delivery within a year and includes
financial investors. The U.S. government also periodically
conducts auctions to reduce stocks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Perth at 
 Jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 