-- 
Turkey Bonds Drop, Yields Surge to Eight-Month High on Strong Growth Data

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-03-01T10:15:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/turkey-bonds-drop-yields-surge-to-eight-month-high-on-strong-growth-data.html
Turkish bonds fell for a second day,
sending yields to their highest in eight months as trade and
manufacturing data suggest central bank efforts to curb economic
growth are failing.  Yields on benchmark two-year lira bonds rose 8 basis points
to 8.86 percent at 11:56 a.m. in Istanbul. That was the highest
level since June 24. The lira weakened 0.5 percent to 1.6062 per
dollar. The main ISE National 100 stock index gained 0.3 percent
to 61,077.16.  Domestic demand in Turkey, which policy makers have tried
to stem by increasing bank reserve requirements, drove the HSBC
purchasing managers’ index, which measures manufacturing
optimism, to 58.5 in February, the highest since the gauge began
in 2005, Markit Economics said today. The January trade deficit
widened to $7.3 billion, exceeding the $4.1 billion median
analyst estimate, and according to estimates from institutions
including the International Monetary fund,  Turkey ’s economy
probably grew 8 percent in 2010.  “The trade deficit has ruined the market,” said Selim Gulkan, a fixed-income trader at Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS in
Istanbul. “The central bank’s main issue is reducing the
current-account deficit and people are now pricing in more
hawkish actions.”  In January, Turkey’s central bank unexpectedly lowered its
benchmark interest rate to an all-time low in a strategy aimed
at curbing inflows of so-called hot money and weakening the
lira, making imported goods less attractive and exporters more
competitive. Central bank Governor Durmus Yilmaz has said
measures taken by the policy maker to curb lending and rein in
demand will take effect in the first quarter of this year.  ‘More Orthodox’  The central bank “may need to fall back on more orthodox
policy responses” like raising interest rates, according to RBS
analysts including Tim Ash in a note dated yesterday. The
central bank’s “unorthodox measures” won’t be repeated, and
the first rate increases may come “soon after the June
parliamentary elections, if not sooner,” Ash said.  The current-account deficit was $7.5 billion in December,
the biggest in a central bank data series that goes back to
1984. The government is aiming for a current-account gap of
$42.2 billion, or 5.4 percent of estimated gross domestic
product, this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  