-- 
Turkey Bonds Are Biggest Losers in Worst Rout Since 2008

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-03-01T16:01:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/turkey-is-biggest-loser-in-worst-emerging-bond-rout-since-2008-on-mideast.html
The biggest selloff in emerging-
market debt since 2008 is hitting  Turkey  hardest as unrest in
the Middle East threatens to widen the country’s current-account
deficit and boost inflation.  The nation’s foreign-currency bonds have dropped 7.9
percent since the end of October, leading a slide in developing-
nation debt, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. Government
securities in lira lost 10 percent for dollar-based investors in
the period as the currency touched an eight-month low. Credit-
default swaps on Turkey jumped to 174 basis points from 133, the
biggest advance among 16 emerging markets, CMA prices show.  Political turmoil from  Libya  to Oman is lifting the cost of
oil imports and curbing demand from a region that buys about 27
percent of Turkey’s exports. The January trade gap was 78
percent wider than the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of
economists, government data showed yesterday. Interest-rate cuts
since December aimed at narrowing the shortfall by depreciating
the lira have dented the appeal of fixed-income assets on
concern inflation may jump from a record low.  “Rising oil prices could hit oil importers like Turkey
pretty hard, and the country is dependent on portfolio inflows
to finance the current-account deficit,”  Kevin Daly , who helps
oversee about $6 billion as an emerging-market money manager at
Aberdeen Asset Management Plc in London, said in a Feb. 25 phone
interview. “So when you’re running somewhat of a questionable
monetary policy and investors are concerned about the downside
risks, it’s a tricky situation.”  Relative Yields  Turkey’s lira bonds fell today, sending the yield on two-
year debt up 17 basis points to 8.95 percent, the highest level
since May 31, according to the RBS Istanbul Benchmark Bond
Index. The  ISE National 100 Index  of shares sank 4.2 percent,
the most in nine months. The lira weakened 0.8 percent against
the dollar for the biggest decline among major emerging-market
currencies at 10:54 a.m. in New York.  Turkey’s international bonds have pared gains after surging
as much as 102 percent since October 2008 on economic expansion
rivaling  China ’s and credit-rating upgrades from Moody’s
Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s . Turkey, which needed
about $53 billion in aid from the  International Monetary Fund 
from 1999 to 2008 to finance budget deficits that swelled to
more than 20 percent of gross domestic product, is rated Ba2 at
Moody’s and BB at S&P, two levels below investment grade.  Rate Cuts  The selloff has dragged the lira down 11 percent against
the dollar since October for the worst decline among emerging-
market currencies and lifted yields on Turkey’s international
bonds to 5.81 percent from 4.53 percent on Oct. 29, JPMorgan’s
EMBI+ Index shows. Borrowing costs are now the highest relative
to the emerging-market average since August, according to
monthly data compiled by New York-based JPMorgan.  Yields on Turkey’s two-year lira bonds have climbed 132
basis points, or 1.32 percentage points, during the past four
months to the highest versus  Russia ’s two-year ruble debt since
June, according to data compiled by Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc and Bloomberg.  Credit default swaps linked to Turkey, which imports 93
percent of its oil, are trading at the highest since April
relative to Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, and
reached an nine-month peak versus the Markit iTraxx SOVX CEEMEA
Index of swaps for emerging  Europe , the Middle East and Africa.  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should the
government fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  “Turkey seems set to be significantly impacted by the
current crisis,” Tim Ash, head of emerging-market research at
RBS in  London , said in an e-mailed note on Feb. 22. Turkey
credit default swaps will probably keep widening relative to
Russia, Ash said.  Trade Gap Widens  Protests across the Middle East that toppled governments in
Tunisia and Egypt have raised perceptions of political risk in
developing nations while record food prices and Brent crude’s
rally to as much as $119.79 a barrel heighten concern that
inflation will quicken. The decline in global emerging-market
bonds followed a record $53 billion of inflows into mutual funds
that buy the securities last year, data compiled by Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based research firm EPFR Global show.  While countries including  Brazil , Russia,  India  and China
lifted borrowing costs this year to curb inflation, Turkey’s
central bank unexpectedly lowered its benchmark interest rate to
an all-time low of 6.25 percent on Jan. 20 and left the rate
unchanged after a Feb. 15 policy meeting.  Record Deficit  Central bank Governor Durmus Yilmaz’s strategy aims to curb
inflows of so-called hot money and weaken the lira, making
imported goods less attractive and exporters more competitive.
With inflation at a record low 4.9 percent annual rate in
January, Yilmaz is betting that higher bank reserve requirements
will be enough to cool an economy the IMF estimates expanded
more than 8 percent last year, the fastest pace since 2005.  “There are already some signs of a slowdown in credit
growth and the bank expects that to become clearer as the year
goes on,” said Haluk Burumcekci, chief economist at EFG
Istanbul Securities. “As far as the current account is
concerned, the bank had already predicted a widening and, given  oil prices , it may argue that just holding it flat is an
achievement.”  Turkey’s trade deficit rose to $7.3 billion in January from
a revised $3.9 billion a year earlier, the Ankara-based state
statistics institute said on its website yesterday. The gap
followed a record $8.7 billion in December and topped the $4.1
billion median estimate of six analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  ‘Better Opportunities’  The ratio of Turkey’s current-account deficit to GDP jumps
0.6 percentage point with every $10 increase in crude prices,
Finance Minister  Mehmet Simsek  said on Feb. 23. The shortfall
will probably amount to 5.4 percent of GDP this year, the widest
among the 10 biggest emerging economies, the IMF estimated in
October.  Surging oil prices have created a “brand new scenario”
that’s likely to change the central bank’s inflation forecasts,
Yilmaz said on Feb. 25. A $10 increase in the price of oil may
add about 0.4 percentage point to Turkish inflation, the central
bank chief told businessmen in the western city of Manisa in a
televised speech.  Inflation may climb to 7.5 percent by midyear from 4.7
percent this month as import costs rise,  Yarkin Cebeci ,
JPMorgan’s Istanbul-based economist, wrote in a Feb. 25 report.  The ISE National 100 Index has tumbled 18 percent from its
record high on Nov. 9 as unrest in the Middle East reduced
earnings prospects for Turkish companies operating in the
region.  Tekfen, Turkish Airlines    Tekfen Holding AS , the Istanbul-based company with
construction projects in Libya, has $140 million in unfinished
contracted work that it suspended last month amid escalating
violence in the oil-producing country. The shares have tumbled
17 percent this year.    Turk Hava Yollari  AO, the carrier that gets about 18
percent of its revenue from the Middle East and North Africa,
has lost 17 percent in Istanbul trading. Turkey evacuated more
than 5,000 people in 72 hours using the airport in Tripoli,
Libya’s capital, Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu said Feb. 23.  “Regional political tensions and their upward influence on
oil prices are only going to add to pressure on the country’s
deficit,” said  David Spegel , the global head of emerging-market
strategy at ING Financial Markets in  New York . “We look for
better opportunities elsewhere among emerging markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;  Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 