-- 
Verizon Wireless Will End Unlimited Data Plans for IPhone

-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-03-01T21:04:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/verizon-wireless-to-drop-unlimited-iphone-data-plans-cfo-says.html
  Verizon Communications Inc . will
stop offering unlimited data plans for  Apple Inc .’s iPhone as
soon as this summer and switch to a tiered pricing offering that
can generate more revenue and hold the heaviest users in check.  The carrier, which began selling the iPhone last month, now
offers $30 unlimited data service on the device. Such plans on
the handset are “not a long-term solution,” Chief Financial
Officer Fran Shammo said today at a Morgan Stanley conference.  Verizon Wireless, co-owned by  Vodafone Group Plc  and
Verizon Communications, ended AT&T Inc.’s four-year exclusive
hold on the iPhone in the U.S. Analysts, including Wells Fargo &
Co.’s  Jennifer Fritzsche , estimate Verizon may sell 2 million
iPhones this quarter.  After beginning iPhone sales in February, Verizon said it
may limit the download speeds for some customers, who are among
the top 5 percent in data consumption, in areas where they risk
jamming the network. Verizon also has an opportunity for
additional revenue as customers adopt smartphones, such as the
iPhone, because they tend to use more data than customers with
more traditional devices, Shammo said.  “We have a very big opportunity at  Verizon Wireless 
because 67 percent of our customers are either feature phones or
multimedia phones,” which have optional data plans of about $10
per month, said Shammo. “We see the potential of our customer
base spending in that $30 to $50 range.”  Online iPhone Sales  AT&T in June stopped offering unlimited data plans, except
to those already under contract. The Dallas-based carrier offers
a $15 plan for 200 megabytes of data monthly or a $25 plan for 2
gigabytes of data.  Customers to date have bought 60 percent of their  Verizon
iPhones  online, rather than in stores, Shammo said at the
conference in  San Francisco . He didn’t give details on the
number of units sold or on the planned tiered data-pricing
plans.  Later this month, Verizon will begin sales of the iPhone in
smaller retailers and other storefronts. Today it is available
primarily online, in Verizon and Apple stores and at the largest
retailers, such as Best Buy Co.  Verizon Communications, based in New York, fell 90 cents,
or 2.4 percent, to $36.02 at 4 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading. Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , lost
$3.90, or 1.1 percent, to $349.31 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  