-- 
Vivendi 2010 Profit Rises 4.4%, Aided By ‘Call of Duty’

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-03-01T17:07:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/vivendi-profit-increases-4-4-aided-by-call-of-duty-game-brazil-unit.html
  Vivendi SA  posted a 4.4 percent
increase in 2010 profit, aided by demand for video-games titles
such as “Call of Duty” and “World of Warcraft,” and the
company’s operations in  Brazil .  The owner of the world’s biggest music and video-game
companies said in an e-mailed statement today that adjusted net
income, which excludes one-time items, climbed to 2.7 billion
euros ($3.72 billion) from 2.59 billion euros a year earlier, in
line with analysts’ estimates. Vivendi said it sees a slight
increase in profit this year.  “The guidance is nothing to get too excited about,” said  Conor O’Shea , an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Paris.  Chief Executive Officer Jean-Bernard Levy is looking to take
full control of the Canal Plus pay-TV division and SFR, the
French mobile-phone unit, by buying out minority partners. The
company in January received a $3.8 billion payment for selling
its stake in broadcaster  NBC Universal  from General Electric
Co., money Levy has said may be used to buy  Vodafone Group Plc ’s
44 percent stake in SFR.  “We are maintaining our objective to one day control 100
percent of SFR,” Levy said on a call with reporters, declining
to comment specifically on talks with Vodafone. The unit, which
posted 1.2 percent sales rise to about 12.6 billion euros, faces
a “competitive intensity that’s been strong for years and
that’s compounded by a regulatory and tax environment” that’s
also difficult, he said.  Vivendi shares fell 1.3 percent to 20.39 euros in Paris.  Dividend, Growth  Vivendi proposed a dividend for 2010 of 1.40 euros a share.  The company, based in Paris, has benefitted from growth in
its Activision Blizzard unit, the world’s largest video-game
publisher, as well as Brazilian phone operator GVT. Activision
sales last year climbed 9.6 percent, while Curitiba-based GVT
boosted revenue by 72 percent to about 1 billion euros.  GVT “is a small activity, but it’s not going to be small
for much longer at this rate,” said O’Shea.  Vivendi’s SFR and Activision face competitive challenges,
with the video game company under pressure to keep existing
franchises fresh while delivering new hits.  The SFR unit, Vivendi’s largest, will face a new competitor
next year when  Iliad SA  becomes the fourth French mobile
operator. Iliad’s billionaire founder, Xavier Niel, has pledged
to drag down French mobile prices, which are higher than those
in other European countries according to the Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development.  Canal Plus  Vivendi and  Lagardere SCA  are meanwhile preparing an
initial public offering of the publisher’s 20 percent stake in
Canal Plus France, the country’s largest pay-TV operator. The
two companies last year failed to reach a deal that would allow
Vivendi to take 100 percent control.  Levy today refused to rule out a last-minute deal that
would see Vivendi buying the Lagardere stake before an IPO
begins.  “At any moment Lagardere can interrupt the process,” he
said. “It’s in their hands.”  Vivendi last month marked a victory in the long-running
legal battles left over from the tenure of former CEO Jean-Marie Messier, who nearly bankrupted the company. The company said it
will make a “significant reduction” in the 550 million euros
it set aside to deal with claims in a New York investor lawsuit
after a ruling limiting the size of any award.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 