-- 
Voters Back Christie on N.J. Pension Cuts, Not Millionaire Tax, Poll Says

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-03-01T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/voters-back-christie-on-n-j-pension-cuts-not-millionaire-tax-poll-says.html
Governor  Chris Christie ’s proposals
to cut state pension benefits won support from a majority of  New
Jersey  voters, while 72 percent favored restoring the so-called
millionaire’s tax he vetoed, a Rutgers University poll shows.  Voters surveyed supported cutting pension benefits for
government workers 54 percent to 40 percent opposed, said the
survey released today by the  Eagleton Institute of Politics  at
Rutgers. Respondents divided 48 percent in favor to 48 percent
against proposals to raise workers’ health-insurance costs.  Bringing back a lapsed tax surcharge for residents with
annual incomes of $1 million or more was “strongly supported”
by 52 percent of those asked, the poll said. Another 20 percent
said they were “somewhat” in favor of restoring the levy, the
survey showed. Christie, 48, a Republican who ended a Democrat-
led attempt to reinstate the tax after the one-year surcharge
ended, has said he’d veto it again.  “While voters are more than willing to have public
employees see significant cuts in pension and health benefits,
they also strongly believe the sacrifice should be shared,”
David Redlawsk, the poll’s director, said in a statement
released with the survey. “While the governor uses the mantra
of shared sacrifice, voters specifically believe that costs
should also be paid by those at the top of the income scale.”  Christie, who took office last year after unseating
incumbent Democrat  Jon Corzine , has proposed a $29.4 billion
budget. Among those surveyed, 45 percent said they were somewhat
or very pleased with the proposal while 48 percent were
displeased with it, including 22 percent “very displeased,”
the poll said.  Pension, Health Changes  The spending plan assumes $323 million in savings by
raising the amount state employees pay for health insurance to
30 percent of the premiums by 2014. Christie has said he’ll use
part of the savings to increase residential property-tax
rebates. He also proposed making a $506 million payment into the
state retirement system if his pension changes are passed.  Christie urged legislators in September to roll back a 9
percent pension-benefit increase from 2001, raise the minimum  retirement age  to 65 from 62, increase worker contributions and
freeze cost-of-living raises. The steps would help cut the
retirement system’s projected $53.9 billion unfunded liability.  Researchers at New Brunswick-based Rutgers surveyed 811
registered voters by landline and mobile telephone from Feb. 24-
26. The poll has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.4
percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 