-- 
Blockbuster Sale Attacked by Disney, Universal, Landlords

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-03-02T01:14:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/walt-disney-objects-to-proposed-blockbuster-bankruptcy-auction.html
  Blockbuster Inc .’s proposed sale
benefits a group of lenders at the expense of all other
creditors, said objectors including  Walt Disney Co .,  Universal
Studios , Yahoo! Inc., the U.S. Trustee’s office, landlords and a
committee of unsecured creditors.  The objections, filed yesterday, set up a fight over how
the cash-strapped movie-rental chain should end its bankruptcy.
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  in  New York , in an order
today, adjourned a hearing that was scheduled for tomorrow to
consider a motion to sell the Dallas-based company to a group
including  Monarch Alternative Capital LP . He rescheduled the
hearing for March 10.  Because Blockbuster filed bankruptcy with a partially
outlined reorganization and then became administratively
insolvent, the dispute was inevitable, said Steven Wilamowsky, a
Bingham McCutchen LLP partner who isn’t involved in the case.  “If parties come in expecting a crash landing, they
negotiate with those expectations in mind,” Wilamowsky said.
“‘If they come in with a negotiated plan, they think they’ll
get paid in full and continue to ship.”  Because Chapter 11 isn’t intended for companies that are
administratively insolvent, judges must resolve such conflicts,
he said.  Blockbuster, attempting to reorganize in Chapter 11 since
September, should liquidate under Chapter 7 because it can’t pay
the costs of its own bankruptcy, said the  Office of the U.S.
Trustee , an arm of the  Justice Department  that oversees
bankruptcies.  Creditors’ Arguments  Unsecured creditors, business partner Yahoo and landlords
also objected to Blockbuster’s plan to sell itself under an
offer from lenders.  “This court should not permit the Monarch group to abuse
the Chapter 11 process,” unsecured creditors wrote, saying that
lenders who stepped in with a $125 million loan to fund
operations used a “roll-up” provision to pay themselves back
for pre-bankruptcy debt and get fees and expense reimbursement.  The lenders saddled other creditors with “massive accrued
and unpaid administrative claims in excess of $250 million,”
the creditors claimed.  The “illusory” loan induced landlords, studios and other
creditors to keep supplying Blockbuster with goods, and the sale
process will let the lenders walk away unscathed leaving
“restructuring carnage” behind as the company can’t cover
administrative expenses, the unsecured creditor said.  Blockbuster is proposing an auction using as a baseline the
$290 million “stalking horse” bid from Monarch,  Owl Creek
Asset Management LP , Stonehill Capital Management LLC, and  Varde
Partners Inc.   Cobalt Video Holdco  The stalking horse group, called Cobalt Video Holdco LLC,
holds more than half of Blockbuster’s $630 million debt in 11.75
percent senior secured notes. It made no commitment to continue
the business. A provision in the agreement gives Cobalt the
right to compel a conversion of the Chapter 11 reorganization
case to liquidation under Chapter 7.    Walt Disney , with a $9.2 million claim for merchandise
shipped to Blockbuster after its September filing, said a sale
may still be the best way to maximize assets. The current
proposal is unfair, it said.  Disney “remains hopeful that the debtors’ sale process
yields results favorable for all constituents,” the company’s
lawyers wrote. “Disney objects, however, to the secured lender
apparently having dictated sale terms beneficial to itself and
detrimental to the debtors’ estates.”  No True Financing  Disney said there is no true post-bankruptcy financing, or
“debtor-in-possession” loan, because the lenders, who are pre-
bankruptcy secured noteholders, never advanced any new cash
after the Chapter 11 filing. All there is, Disney says, is
$125 million in pre-bankruptcy notes that were transformed
through the so-called rollup.  Lifland also will consider a motion by  Summit Entertainment
LLC , which wants to be paid $9.4 million for goods supplied
after bankruptcy. Summit wants the case converted to a
liquidation if the judge won’t allow it to reclaim its unsold
goods.  Universal Studios Home Entertainment LLC , owed $6.4 million
for movies including   Scott Pilgrim  vs. the World,” said
Blockbuster accepted its shipments post-bankruptcy without
intending to pay for them.  Blockbuster admits that the studios as business partners
are the “lifeblood of their business,” Universal said in court
papers.  Fox Documents  Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment LLC  asked the
court to protect its collateral. It filed documents outlining
its arguments under seal.  Administrative expenses incurred in the bankruptcy through
Feb. 24 will be frozen, according to court papers. Those
beginning on Feb. 25 will be paid only if provided for in a sale
budget. The sale contract also requires the court to bar
creditors from taking any action to collect on a claim before
June 21.  Blockbuster said in court filings that there is a
possibility it won’t be able to pay all suppliers for goods
provided after the Chapter 11 filing.  The company began reorganization in September with 5,600
stores, including 3,300 in the U.S. and the rest abroad. Among
the U.S. stores, 3,000 were owned. The rest are franchised.
About 200 stores closed before the bankruptcy.  The petition listed assets of $1.02 billion against debt of
$1.47 billion. Blockbuster estimated it owes $57 million in
accounts payable in addition to the secured and subordinated
notes.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York   Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York bankruptcy court at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 