-- 
Frank Lowy Steps Back From Westfield, Hands Day-to-Day Control to His Sons

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-03-02T05:54:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/westfield-s-frank-lowy-to-become-non-executive-chairman-names-joint-ceos.html
Australia’s richest man Frank Lowy
will step down as executive chairman of  Westfield Group  and hand
day to day control of the company he founded in 1959 to his
sons.  Frank Lowy, 80, will become non-executive chairman, while
Peter and Steven Lowy will become joint chief executive
officers, the Sydney-based shopping mall developer said in a
statement to the Australian stock exchange today.  “Frank Lowy’s contribution to the company has obviously
been huge,” said Will Seddon, who helps manage $350 million at
White Funds Management Pty in Sydney. “He has built a very
successful company on a global scale. I wouldn’t expect the
announcement to mark any major change to their strategy. It’s
probably more of a reflection of the stage of life he is at.”  The move to change Peter and Steven Lowy’s current position
of co-managing directors follows the company’s creation of a new
listed property trust that jointly invests in Westfield’s
Australian and New Zealand shopping centers. It comes as the
company seeks further joint ventures for its U.S. and U.K.
operations.  A shareholder who invested A$1,000 in Westfield in 1960,
when the company listed, and reinvested all dividends and bonus
issues, would have made about A$159 million ($161 million) by
2009, according to Westfield’s  website .  Westfield Group shares today fell 0.7 percent to A$9.57 at
the 4:10 p.m. close of trading in Sydney.  Westfield Retail Trust 
added 1.1 percent to A$2.70.  Right Time  In other changes, Chief Financial Officer Peter Allen will
stand for election as a director. David Lowy, Frank’s oldest
son, and director David Gonski won’t seek re-election to the
board, and Brian Schwartz, a director since May 2009, will
replace David Lowy as deputy chairman.  “The time is right for these moves,” Frank Lowy, who
founded the first Westfield center in the Sydney suburb of
Blacktown in 1959 with fellow Hungarian immigrant John Saunders,
said in the statement. “I am healthy and committed and I will
continue to contribute to the group which has been my life for
more than 50 years.”  Frank Lowy emigrated to Australia in 1952 after fleeing the
Nazis in  Hungary  and fighting as a commando in  Palestine . He
built up Westfield into the world’s biggest shopping center
operator by assets with 119 properties in Australia,  New
Zealand , the U.S. and U.K.  Peter Lowy, Frank’s second son, has been at the company for
28 years, starting as assistant treasurer in 1983. Steven, the
youngest, began his career at Westfield as manager of the Garden
State Plaza shopping center in  New Jersey  in 1987, after a stint
as an analyst at First Boston Corp. in  New York . First Boston
merged with Credit Suisse AG in 1988.  Rich List  David Lowy will continue as chief executive of LFG
Holdings, a private business group owned by the Lowys. All the
changes will take effect at the annual general meeting to be
held on May 25, the company said today.  Frank Lowy topped BRW Magazine’s Australian rich list for
the first time last year, with a personal fortune estimated at
A$5.04 billion, according to the annual ranking of the nation’s
wealthiest people published in May. Lowy will continue in his
current role as chairman of the Football Federation  Australia ,
the governing body for soccer in the country, and the  Lowy
Institute for International Policy , a Sydney-based think tank
established in 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 Nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ; 