-- 
Wheat Fluctuates on Dry Weather in U.S., Rainfall in China; Soybeans Rise

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-03-01T11:33:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/wheat-advances-for-a-third-day-as-dry-weather-threatens-china-u-s-output.html
Wheat fluctuated in  Chicago  as
investors waited to see whether dry weather curbed yields in the
U.S., the world’s largest exporter, and if rain improved crop
conditions in China, the biggest consumer.  Rain in drought-affected areas of China will stop after as
much as 49 millimeters (1.9 inches) fell in the past four days,
improving soil moisture, the Meteorological Administration said
today. About 25 percent of the crop in Kansas, the biggest U.S.
grower, was rated good or excellent as of Feb. 27, down from 27
percent a week earlier, government data showed.  “If a production shortfall in China is sustained and their
wheat stocks are drawn down, higher wheat or other grains
imports may be required, lending some support to international
grain prices,” Chen Xin Yi, an analyst at  Barclays Capital ,
said by phone from Singapore today.  Wheat for May delivery was unchanged at $8.17 a bushel at
11:08 a.m.  London  time on the Chicago Board of Trade. Prices
rose as much as 0.8 percent and fell as much as 0.4 percent. The
grain climbed 62 percent in the past year as drought in Russia
and wet weather in Canada and  Australia  curbed global
production.  In  Oklahoma , about 19 percent of the crop was in good or
excellent condition, down from 21 percent at the end of January,
while 40 percent had the highest ratings in  Nebraska , compared
with 41 percent a month earlier.  World Harvests  “Any U.S. wheat-production shortfall may have a larger
impact on international wheat prices, as compared with a
production shortfall in  China ,” Chen said.  Global production of the grain may expand 4 percent to 675
million metric tons in the year starting July 1 as higher prices
encourage farmers to expand planting, the Australian Bureau of
Agricultural & Resource Economics & Sciences said today. That
compares with the International Grains Council’s forecast for a
3.7 percent gain to 672 million tons.  Milling wheat for May delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in
Paris, the contract with the highest volume, added 0.4 percent
to 250 euros ($345.87) a ton.  Soybeans for May delivery rose 0.6 percent to $13.7275 a
bushel in Chicago. Corn for May delivery gained 0.3 percent to
$7.33 a bushel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in  Singapore  at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  