-- 
Women Underrepresented in Heart-Device Studies, Contradicting FDA Rules

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-03-01T21:00:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/women-underrepresented-in-heart-device-studies-contradicting-fda-rules.html
Women are often underrepresented in
studies used to win U.S. approval for medical devices in
contradiction of government requirements, a report today in the  American Heart Association ’s journal Circulation showed.  Two-thirds of participants in studies used to gain Food and
Drug Administration approval for medical devices, including
implantable defibrillators and pacemakers, were men, researchers
found. More than a quarter of the trials didn’t provide the
gender of study participants, according to the research.  Since 1994 the government has required device makers to
provide a gender-bias statement in approval applications,
explaining whether the proportion of women and men in the trial
reflect the gender breakdown of the condition being treated, the
researchers said. The companies must also show the differences
in safety and effectiveness of the device in men and women.  The findings in today’s study raise concerns over the
potential safety of these devices in women,  Rita Redberg , one of
the study’s authors, said. The FDA needs to improve enforcement
of its rules and hold off on approvals for new devices lacking
data on safety and effectiveness for both men and women, she
said.  “There’s a lot that we don’t know about devices on the
market," said Redberg, a professor of medicine and director of
Women’s Cardiovascular Services at the University of  California ,  San Francisco , in a telephone interview today. "Their approvals
are based on data in men.”  “Going forward, we need to include more women in trials
and analyze data specifically by sex, and not approve devices
until we can say how the devices work in women as well as in
men,” she said. “I would like to be able to have the same
confidence in the data when I advise my women patients as when I
advise my men patients. And I can’t do that based on this
data.”  Redberg is a member of the FDA’s Circulatory System Devices
Panel.  123 Studies  Researchers in the study looked at 123 studies of 78 FDA-
approved medical devices between 2000 and 2007. The proportion
of women enrolled in studies didn’t increase over the study
period. They found men made up an average of about 67 percent of
the people who participated in studies used in the applications.
Twenty-eight percent of the studies didn’t provide the genderof
patients enrolled in the trials.  Researchers in the study said that the proportion of women
enrolled in studies didn’t increase between 2000 and 2007, the
period covered by the study. Forty-one percent of the studies
included the required gender-bias statement, the authors said.
Of the studies that included the statement, only 26 percent
reported the differences in device safety or effectiveness
between women and men.  American Heart Association  Lori Mosca, a national spokeswoman for the American Heart
Association and director of preventive cardiology at New York-
Presbyterian Hospital, said in a telephone interview today that
women need to make the effort to participate in clinical trials
and scientists need to understand better why they aren’t
participating.  “We can’t put the blame completely on one or another,”
she said. “There’s a shared responsibility here for women to
participate and for device makers to put the resources in to
help women participate and in the final analysis, to provide all
data both good and bad by gender.”  The FDA is aware that women are under-represented in
clinical trials, said spokeswoman Karen Riley in an e-mail. The
FDA’s Center for Devices and Radiological Health is currently
developing formal guidelines, which will be available this year,
to address the issue.  Women’s Heart Program  Nieca Goldberg, director of the Women’s Heart Program at  New York  University’s Langone Medical Center, said women should
talk to their doctors if they’re concerned about the safety of
their heart devices.  “I don’t think the studies say we should necessarily
withhold procedures from women,” she said in a Feb. 28
telephone interview. “This is just another step in the journey
in improving cardiovascular care to women.”  Wendy Dougherty, a spokeswoman for Minneapolis-based device
maker  Medtronic Inc .,  said the company is concerned about
gender inequity in patients who receive implantable devices.  “Medtronic continues to find ways to ensure the right
percentage of women are enrolled into our trials, based on the
demographics of the underlying disease,” she said in an e-mail
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  