-- 
Women Gain in Job Market, Lag on Pay, White House Report Says

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-03-01T16:54:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/women-gain-in-job-market-lag-on-pay-white-house-report-says.html
Women in the U.S. attend college at
the same rate as men and the number of women in the workforce
is almost equal, yet gains in education and employment over the
last several decades haven’t translated into income equality,
according to a government report released today.  The White House  report  is aimed at showing how women’s
lives have changed since the last comprehensive federal report
on women in 1963, administration officials said. It covers
health, crime and violence as well as economic issues.  “By consolidating our data so that we can learn more
about how services and programs are impacting lives, we can
target our resources to deliver the best results for women,
families, and all Americans,”  Jacob Lew , director of the
Office of Management and Budget, said in a statement.  Among the findings in the 97-page  report : The rate of
adult women working or looking for work rose from about 33
percent in 1950 to 61 percent in 1999 and has held steady over
the last 12 years. At all levels of education, women earned 75
percent of what their male counterparts earned in 2009, it
said.  Women are more likely to live in poverty than adult men.
With single mothers earning lower wages, such families face
particularly high poverty rates, especially among minority
groups. The report says a growing number of women are raising
children without a spouse, and those who marry are doing so
later in life. They also are having fewer children than in the
past and are older when first giving birth.  The share of women between the ages of 18 and 64 without
health insurance has increased, and though women live longer
than men, they’re more susceptible to certain health
conditions, including arthritis, asthma, depression and
obesity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  