-- 
Yen Declines as Asia, U.S. Reports Add to Recovery Signs; Ringgit Advances

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-03-01T05:34:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/yen-falls-as-stocks-gain-on-economic-recovery-signs-dollar-pares-losses.html
The yen weakened against all of its
major counterparts as economic data in  Asia  and the U.S. added
to signs the global recovery is gathering momentum, damping
demand for safer assets.  Japan’s currency fell for a second day versus the euro as
the economic data spurred gains in Asian stocks, boosting the
appeal of higher-yielding securities. Malaysia’s ringgit rose
for a third day after a Chinese report showed manufacturing
expanded more than economists had forecast. The euro held onto
yesterday’s gain versus the dollar on prospects European Central
Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet may indicate this week a
readiness to increase interest rates.  “Economies worldwide like in Asia and the U.S. appear to
be recovering firmly,” said  Marito Ueda , senior managing
director in Tokyo at FX Prime Corp., a foreign-exchange margin
company. “Risk-taking appetite may prevail, with the yen likely
to be sold.”  The yen declined to 113.43 per euro as of 2:31 p.m. in
Tokyo from 112.91 in  New York  yesterday. The Japanese currency
fell 0.5 percent to 82.15 per dollar from 81.78. The euro was at
$1.3807 from $1.3806, after rising as much as 0.2 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares climbed 0.8 percent
and the  Nikkei 225  Stock Average gained 1 percent following a
0.6 percent increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
yesterday.  Japan, Australia, U.S.  The statistics bureau said today in Tokyo that Japanese
payrolls increased by 170,000 in January from a month earlier.
The jobless rate held at 4.9 percent. Australia’s retail sales
gained 0.4 percent in January from a month earlier, the Bureau
of Statistics said in Sydney today. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of economists was for a 0.3 percent increase.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s U.S. manufacturing
index rose to 61.0 in February, the highest since May 2004, a
Bloomberg survey showed before today’s report.  Japan’s benchmark interest rate of as low as zero compares
with  Australia ’s 4.75 percent rate, attracting investors to the
South Pacific nation’s higher-yielding assets.  Malaysia’s ringgit rose toward its highest level in 13
years after the National Bureau of Statistics and Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing said  China ’s Purchasing Managers Index
was at 52.2 in February, higher than the median forecast of 52.1
in a Bloomberg survey.  Overseas Investors  Overseas investors boosted their holdings of ringgit-
denominated debt by 7 percent during January to a record, the
central bank said late yesterday.  “The economic data provides some support for the market
and we see sustained confidence among foreign investors in the
ringgit,” said Mohd Yazid Safuan, head of treasury sales and
trading at Al Rajhi Banking & Investment Corp. in  Kuala Lumpur .  The ringgit advanced 0.1 percent to 3.0469 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency gained 0.4
percent in February and reached 3.0240 on Feb. 21, the strongest
level since October 1997.  The euro completed a third monthly advance versus the
dollar in February before the ECB, which has kept its key
interest rate at 1 percent since May 2009, holds its next policy
meeting on March 3.  ECB, Fed  ECB governing council member  Mario Draghi  said on Feb. 26
that inflation pressures are forcing policy makers to focus more
on the timing of interest rate increases. The euro has gained
3.2 percent against the greenback this year amid prospects the
ECB will precede the  Federal Reserve  in raising rates.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled to deliver a
semiannual report on monetary policy today to the Senate Banking
Committee and is due to testify to the House Financial Services
Committee tomorrow.  “The markets expect the ECB to shift to a hawkish policy
stance and the Fed’s Bernanke to have a mildly dovish
testimony,” said Akira Hoshino, chief manager of the foreign-
exchange trading department in Tokyo at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd., a unit of Japan’s largest lender by market value. “If
this were to happen as anticipated, the euro could be bought.”    Europe ’s shared currency has risen 1.4 percent this year,
while the dollar has lost 2.1 percent, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, which track the
currencies of 10 developed nations. The dollar dropped yesterday
to the lowest in the indexes since August 2008.  The dollar pared losses versus the euro earlier after Hong
Kong Monetary Authority Chief Executive  Norman Chan  told
lawmakers the Fed may raise  interest rates  “sooner than
expected."  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Ron Harui in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 