-- 
Zimbabwe's Tobacco Earnings Rise 33% as Sales Jump Outweighs Drop in Price

-- B y   N e l s o n   G o r e   B a n y a
-- 
2011-03-01T11:16:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-01/zimbabwe-s-tobacco-earnings-rise-33-as-sales-jump-outweighs-drop-in-price.html
  Zimbabwe ’s income from tobacco sales
has jumped 33 percent since the marketing season started last
month compared with a year earlier, as a rise in sales outweighs
a drop in prices, the Tobacco Industry and Marketing Board said.  The southern African nation has earned about $12 million
from sales of the leaf since Feb. 16, up from $9 million a year
earlier, the board said in an e-mailed statement today. About
4.1 million kilograms (9 million pounds) of tobacco has been
sold at an average price of $2.09 a kilogram, compared with 2.5
million kilograms at $3.06 per kilogram last year, it said.  Tobacco production in Zimbabwe is still below peak levels
of about 236 million kilograms achieved in 2000, before
President Robert Mugabe’s Zimbabwe African National Union-Front
party sponsored often-violent seizures of most white-owned
farms. Output slipped to a low of 58.6 million kilograms in
2009, reflecting the effects of a political and economic crisis
that peaked during 2008.  Zimbabwe’s tobacco output may rise 38 percent to 170
million kilograms this season as more farmers grow the crop and
as the nation’s “economic environment” improves, Andrew Matibiri, the board’s chief executive officer, said on Feb. 16.  Small-scale tobacco farmers currently account for more than
half of Zimbabwe’s output, Agriculture Minister Joseph Made said
on the same day. As production rises, farmers should now focus
on improving quality, he said.  Zimbabwe earned $347.8 million from tobacco sales last
year, according to the board, which oversees the industry. China
was the main buyer of Zimbabwe’s crop, replacing Western
companies that were traditionally the biggest buyers, it said.  Zimbabwe is the world’s sixth-largest exporter of the flue-
cured variety of the leaf, which is also known as Virginia
tobacco. It lags behind  Brazil ,  India , the U.S., Argentina and
Tanzania, according to the website of Universal Corp., the
world’s biggest tobacco-leaf merchant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nelson Gore Banya in Johannesburg at 
 ngbanya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  