-- Abbott, J&J, Sanofi Said to Show Bausch & Lomb Interest
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   D a v i d   C a r e y   a n d   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-01-04T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/abbott-j-j-sanofi-said-to-show-interest-in-bausch-lomb-bid.html
Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ,  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ)  and Sanofi have shown interest in Bausch & Lomb Inc.,
the eye-care company Warburg Pincus LLC is seeking to sell, said
people with knowledge of the matter.  Warburg, working with Goldman Sachs Group Inc., is giving
interested parties access to its financial data and seeking
first-round bids by month’s end, said the people, who asked not
to be named because the process is private. Warburg is seeking
at least $10 billion for the business, these people said.
Goldman Sachs contacted some prospective bidders right before
Christmas with information about Bausch & Lomb, said one of the
people.  A sale at $10 billion, including debt, would give  New York- 
based Warburg more than a 200 percent gain on its $1.7 billion
equity investment in Bausch & Lomb, whose products include
 contact lenses  and eye-care solution, a person familiar with the
matter said. That type of windfall may help Warburg win over
investors as Co-Presidents Joseph Landy and Charles Kaye seek
participants for a new investment fund with a $12 billion
target.  Abbott, which officially spun out its drug business earlier
this month, has retained Morgan Stanley as a financial adviser
to consider a  purchase  of Bausch & Lomb, said two of the people.
French pharmaceutical company Sanofi is working with  Evercore
Partners Inc. (EVR)  on a possible bid, said another person.  Representatives at Bausch & Lomb, Warburg, Goldman Sachs,
Abbott,  Sanofi (SAN) , Johnson & Johnson, Evercore and Morgan Stanley
declined to comment on the process.  Other Suitors?  Other parties considering bids and receiving confidential
financial information on Bausch & Lomb include Merck & Co. and
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , said three of the people. Representatives at Merck
and Pfizer declined to comment.  Warburg took Bausch & Lomb private in 2007 in a deal valued
at $4.6 billion, including debt. Since the buyout, Bausch &
Lomb’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and
amortization have risen from about $400 million to just under
$700 million, said three of the people. The company is seeking
to sell for 12 to 13 times projected 2013 earnings of about $800
million, said two of the people.  Warburg had earlier weighed an initial public offering, and
would consider that again if first-round bids don’t meet
expectations, people familiar with the matter said. Some of the
companies, including Sanofi, are less interested in parts of
Bausch & Lomb, such as its cataract surgical unit and might
resist buying the whole company, said one of the people.  Business Breakdown  Bausch & Lomb has three different businesses:
pharmaceuticals, vision care and surgical, according to
documents provided by the company last month. Pharmaceuticals
and vision each account for about 40 percent of sales, with the
rest going to surgical. About 40 percent of its sales come from
 North America , 33 percent from  Europe  and the rest from  Asia  or
 Latin America .  Warburg expects that large companies such as Abbott would
be willing to buy the whole company and swallow the smaller
parts it isn’t interested in or sell those off later, said one
person.  Warburg plans to sell Bausch & Lomb intact because a
breakup could potentially increase its tax burden, two people
said. Splitting the assets would force the eye-care company to
pay capital gains tax on the profits for each unit, with Warburg
and other investors facing taxes on whatever earnings they
pocket as dividends, according to Carl L. Reisner, a mergers and
acquisitions lawyer at Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison
LLP.  By contrast, in a straight cash sale of the entire company,
just Warburg and the current owners would owe taxes, said
Reisner, whose firm isn’t involved in the sale process.  Were Bausch & Lomb to fetch $10 billion, it would be the
third-biggest sale ever by a private-equity-controlled company,
according to researcher Preqin Ltd. The two largest are Alltel
Corp.’s $28.1 billion sale in 2009 and Intelsat Ltd.’s $16.6
billion sale in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
David Carey in New York at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  