-- AbbVie Plans Specialty Drug Focus in Sales Growth Effort
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-01-03T21:44:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/abbvie-plans-specialty-drug-focus-in-sales-growth-effort.html
AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) , the drug unit that split
from parent  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  on Jan. 1, will seek treatments
for unmet medical needs in a push to grow sales in 2015, the
company’s new chief financial officer said.  The competition is less keen to find drugs for conditions
with few current therapies than for primary care, CFO William Chase said today in an interview in New York. AbbVie will focus
on these illnesses, such as Parkinson’s and endometriosis, a
disease of the uterus, where the North Chicago, Illinois-based
company already has treatments under development, he said.  Abbott split off AbbVie as a way to let investors choose
between a medical products company that makes devices,
diagnostics and nutrition products, and AbbVie, a drugmaker
based largely around Humira, a best-selling rheumatoid arthritis
injection that  generated  $7.93 billion in 2011.  “We’re not going to be a primary care company going
forward,” Chase said. “What we’re really looking for is
specialty segments.”  The goal is for those products to come on line in 2015,
Chase said. “In 2015, the pipeline will kick in and at which
point we’re confident AbbVie will return to  growth , Chase said.  Until then, sales likely will be little changed. The
company over the next two years will lose about $2.5 billion of
what it projects will be $18 billion in 2013 revenue as patents
expire, Chase said. The sales loss will be offset by more
revenue from Humira and Androgel, a testosterone product.  AbbVie, which began trading yesterday,  declined  less than 1
percent to $34.83 at the close in New York.  Dividend Growth  The company plans to increase its  dividend , currently $1.60
a share annually, Chase said, without providing a timeline.  ‘‘The way investors should be looking at us, is in the
short term you get a very healthy dividend and a commitment to
maintain and grow that dividend,’’ he said. ‘‘And in the 2015
period, we’re going to have an inflection as the pipeline plays
out that’s going to return this stock to a growth stock. We view
it in its most simple form as a value play with a great
optionality on the pipeline.”  The company doesn’t plan any major acquisitions, preferring
to focus on smaller, single-drug deals that will help boost the
number of treatments in development.  Experimental Drugs  Starting in 2015, the company has four major product
prospects that Chase said would be worth about $4 billion to $6
billion a year in peak sales. Among the leading experimental
drugs is a hepatitis C treatment targeted for the market in
early 2015 that will do away with shots of interferon, the
standard yearlong treatment that has flu-like side-effects.  Levodopa/Carbidopa, a gel used for Parkinson’s, may be on
sale in 2014 and would generate about $1 billion a year, said
Chase. AbbVie also is developing daclizumab, a treatment for
multiple sclerosis in the late stage of clinical trials that may
reach the market by late 2015 or early 2016.  Finally, the company has elagolix, a drug for
endometriosis. The uterine disease affects about 17 million
women, Chase said, and AbbVie’s drug could have fewer side
effects than current therapies. The company is targeting a 2016
approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  