-- Ackman Reaches Deal to Drop Call for General Growth Sale
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-01-03T21:43:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/ackman-drops-call-for-general-growth-sale-after-selling-warrants.html
Investor  Bill Ackman  sold some of his
holdings in General Growth Properties Inc. to the company’s
largest shareholder as part of an agreement that ends his quest
for the mall owner to put itself up for sale.  Pershing Square  Capital Management LP, founded by Ackman,
sold  Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM/A)  its warrants to buy 18.4
million General Growth shares, according to a filing today with
the Securities and Exchange Commission. The New York-based hedge
fund, General Growth’s second-largest investor, also agreed to
keep its stake below 10 percent for at least four years.  Ackman will return to a “passive” shareholder after
Brookfield also agreed to limits on its ownership of Chicago-
based General Growth. He is dropping his call for the No. 2 U.S.
mall owner, which left bankruptcy in November 2010, to explore a
sale to its largest rival,  Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG)   “Both sides got what they wanted,” Alexander Goldfarb, an
analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in New York, said in
an interview. “Brookfield had to pay a premium to buy the
warrants from Pershing Square, so that’s a victory for Pershing.
And Pershing got Brookfield to amend its corporate governance.”  “At the same time, Brookfield got the warrants and got
Pershing Square to agree to be a passive investor, which is a
victory for Brookfield and GGP,” he said.  Ackman wasn’t available to comment on the deal.  David Keating , a General Growth spokesman, declined to comment. Andy Willis, Brookfield spokesman, didn’t return a voice mail.  Shares Decline  General Growth fell 2.9 percent to $19.46 today in New York
trading, the most since June.  Ackman said in August that Indianapolis-based Simon had
shown interest in an acquisition and lobbied for the companies
to begin talks. General Growth rebuffed the idea and Simon Chief
Financial Officer Stephen Sterrett said in September that his
company had “no interest” in a takeover.  Simon had tried to buy General Growth when it was in
bankruptcy but lost a takeover battle to a group led by Ackman
and Toronto-based Brookfield.  “It was never reasonable to think that GGP was going to be
sold,” said Goldfarb, who has a hold rating on the shares.
“Pershing Square passed on that option during the bankruptcy
process, then Simon made offers to buy the company and they were
rebuffed and consequently, Simon was very clear that they had
moved on.”  Pershing is satisfied with the board’s oversight and
believes  General Growth (GGP)  should remain independent, according to
the filing. The fund now holds 8 percent of the common stock.  Warrant Premium  Brookfield agreed to limit its right to vote shares in
excess of 38.2 percent of the common stock, according to a
separate statement. Brookfield and its affiliates also will
participate in future stock repurchases by General Growth so as
not to exceed a 45 percent ownership cap.  Brookfield paid about $271.9 million for the Pershing
warrants, or about $14.75 each. That suggests a premium of about
$4.25 per unit, based on General Growth’s closing stock price of
$19.85 on Dec. 31, the date of the deal, and the warrants’
exercise price of $9.36, according to Goldfarb.  General Growth shares climbed  36 percent last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  