-- Macy’s Trial Over Martha Stewart Rights Set for February
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-01-04T01:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/macy-s-trial-over-martha-stewart-rights-set-for-february.html
Macy’s Inc.’s bid to prevent  Martha
Stewart  Living Omnimedia Inc. from executing a sales agreement
with  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  is set to go to trial Feb. 19.  The case won’t be tried before a jury and there will be no
need to decide damages, Judge  Jeffrey K. Oing  said today in  New
York  state court in  Manhattan .  Any potential damages in the dispute “are going to pale in
comparison to the injunction,” Oing said during a hearing.
“That’s the real big bucks there -- if I stop this deal.”  Macy’s, the second-biggest U.S. department-store chain,
claims it has an exclusive right to sell Martha Stewart Living
products in certain categories. The Cincinnati-based retailer
sued both J.C. Penney and  Martha Stewart Living (MSO)  seeking to halt
their sales agreement, announced in December 2011.  In one of the suits, Macy’s said Plano, Texas-based J.C.
Penney, the No. 4 U.S. department-store chain, caused it to
“incur substantial damages and threatens to inflict
incalculable further harm” and that the Martha Stewart accord
is “transparently designed to eliminate the competitive
advantage that Macy’s enjoys in the area of home products.”  Oing in July granted Macy’s request for an initial
injunction blocking Martha Stewart Living from taking any steps
under the deal on making, marketing, distributing or selling
certain Martha Stewart-branded products. In August, he said he
wouldn’t impose a similar injunction against J.C. Penney because
Macy’s hadn’t proved it was likely to succeed on some claims.  Martha Stewart Living filed a notice in August that it
would appeal Oing’s injunction order.  ‘Strategic Alliance’  J.C. Penney announced in December 2011 that it was entering
into a “strategic alliance” in which it was investing $38.5
million for a 16.6 percent  stake  in Martha Stewart Living. As a
component of the deal, the companies planned to open distinct
Martha Stewart home and lifestyle merchandise stores inside many
J.C. Penney locations starting in February and sell specialty
merchandise online, according to the announcement from J.C.
Penney.  Martha Stewart Living, based in New York, “remains on
track to launch products both in-store and online with JCPenney
in the spring of 2013, as previously planned,” Sarah Brown, a
spokeswoman for Martha Stewart Living, said today in an e-mail.  The case is  Macy’s Inc. (M)  v. J.C. Penney Corp., 652861/2012,
New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan). The old case is Macy’s
Inc. v. Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc., 650197/2012, New
York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  