-- Allot’s Record Stock Drop Emboldens Buy Rating at Needham
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2013-01-03T23:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/allot-s-record-stock-drop-emboldens-buy-rating-at-needham.html
The record tumble in  Allot
Communications Ltd. (ALLT)  is reinforcing Needham & Co.’s buy
recommendation on the shares of the Israeli technology company.  Allot, which develops products to track wireless traffic,
tumbled 24 percent to $13.85, the biggest slide since the
company’s initial public offering in  New York  in 2006, after
Oppenheimer & Co. said sales will miss estimates. The decline
sent the  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest New-
York traded Israeli companies 2.7 percent lower to 86.27.
 Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX)  retreated to the lowest level since
April after cutting its revenue forecast.  Allot, based in Hod Hasharon,  Israel , will report fourth-
quarter sales of $28.6 million and net income of $5 million,
Oppenheimer said in an e-mailed report yesterday, missing the
 mean  estimate for revenue of $31.09 million and profit of $5.5
million by 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The company stands
to gain as wireless carriers such as  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S)  increase spending on services to help manage traffic,
according to Needham, which has had a buy recommendation on the
stock since November.  “Even if Allot is a little soft in the fourth quarter and
even if the visibility isn’t all that great for the first
quarter, the stock is oversold here,” Alex Henderson, an
analyst at Needham who has a buy rating on Allot, said by phone
from New York yesterday. “The outlook globally for wireless
carrier spending in 2013 is a hell of a lot better than it was
for 2012. Allot is very well positioned, and yes, you should buy
it on the weakness.”  Ten out of the 12 analysts who  cover  Allot have the
equivalent of a buy rating on the stock and their average 12-
month price target of $27.6 is double yesterday’s level.  Orders ‘Softened’  Allot lost 10 percent in  Tel Aviv  to 61.01 shekels, or
$16.26, as Israel’s  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  dropped 0.9 percent to 1,210.62.
The shares’ plunge in New York  widened  the discount versus the
stock in Tel Aviv by the most on record.  Trading volume on Allot shares in New York was more than 17
times the stock’s daily average over the past three months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company may report that a measurement of future revenue
known as book-to-bill was below one in the last three months of
the year, indicating that “order patterns have softened,”
 Ittai Kidron , a New York-based analyst at Oppenheimer, wrote in
the report yesterday. He lowered his rating on the shares to the
equivalent of hold from buy.  Spending Outlook  Allot tumbled 33 percent in the fourth quarter in New York
on concern a stalemate in U.S. budget talks could push the
world’s largest economy into a recession and prompt wireless
providers to cut spending on vendor services. U.S. lawmakers
passed a budget on Jan. 1, averting spending cuts and tax
increases threatening a recovery in the world’s biggest economy.  AT&T’s November announcement that it plans to invest $14
billion over three years to improve the networks that deliver
wireless communications, high-speed Internet access and
television services will boost Allot’s sales, Needham’s
Henderson said. He also expects Sprint Nextel to increase its
spending on products offered by Allot following its $20 billion
deal made with  Softbank Corp. (9984)  in October.  “By the second, third and fourth quarter of 2013, this
category is going to be up and running,” Henderson said.  Mellanox plunged 17 percent to $50.7 in New York yesterday,
the lowest since April, after the Yokneam Elit, Israel-based
company lowered its fourth-quarter sales forecast to $119
million to $121 million, below revenue guidance issued in
October of $145 million to $150 million.  ‘Baseline’ Sales  Chief Executive Officer Eyal Waldman said in a conference
call with analysts yesterday that the shortfall was due to
weaker demand and a technical issue related to cabling for
Mellanox’s FDR 56Gb/s InfiniBand product.  Trading volume was seven times the stock’s three-month
daily average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Mellanox
has lost $69 since reaching $119.93 on Sept. 6. Shares in Tel
Aviv sank 17 percent to 190.30 shekels, or the equivalent of
$50.63.  The forecast cut comes less than three months after Waldman
said that $150 million in sales per quarter had become the
company’s “baseline.”  “Mellanox was pretty comfortable with the new baseline
being around $150 million per quarter,”  Shebly Seyrafi , an
analyst at FBN Securities Inc. who cut his rating on Mellanox to
sector perform from outperform yesterday, said by phone from New
York. “The lack of clear statements about fiscal first quarter
leads us to believe that the demand issue is playing a large
part here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 Eobrien6@bloomberg.net  