-- Alstom Transport Orders May Reach Record on Canada Trams
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-01-04T16:59:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/alstom-transport-orders-may-hit-record-on-tramways-deal.html
Alstom SA (ALO)  said a Canadian tram order
may determine whether its train unit will have a record order
intake this fiscal year as a 23 billion-euro ($30 billion)
backlog helps  the French manufacturer  keep competition at bay.  If the Ottawa tram contract worth “several hundreds of
million euros,” for which Alstom is the  preferred  bidder, is
booked before the end of March, the fiscal year ending that
month may be the best ever in terms of orders,  Henri Poupart-
Lafarge , the head of Alstom’s transport unit, said in an
interview. “If it’s booked on April 1, maybe it won’t.”  Alstom, which also makes power-generation and transmission
equipment, had a record order intake of 8.1 billion euros at its
transport unit in the  year  ended March 2009 before the financial
crisis prompted rail operators to delay contracts. The company
and rivals such as  Canada ’s  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  and  Germany ’s
 Siemens AG (SIE)  are benefiting from a rebound in demand for trains,
metros, trams and signaling systems as governments seek to curb
traffic congestion and pollution.  The stock rose 1.7 percent to 31.73 euros today, the
highest in almost 10 months, beating the 0.2 percent gain of the
French CAC 40 index and valuing the company at 9.8 billion
euros. Alstom was the biggest winner in the 15-member Bloomberg
Europe Machinery Index which rose 0.3 percent.  Russia, India  “We’ll have between 5 billion euros and 6 billion euros of
sales, with orders well above that, it’s a very good year,” the
Alstom transport unit head said in his office, which features a
small statue of Buddha and models of locomotives built by Alstom
as well as Russian and Chinese makers.  “We won’t repeat such a year permanently,” he said,
adding that “we may repeat it next year” if the company books
the $5.8 billion  order  for suburban trains in South Africa for
which an Alstom-led group was also named as the preferred bidder
last month, he said.  The global market for rail supply, from rolling stock to
infrastructure to maintenance services, may grow by 2.6 percent
per year to reach 170 billion euros in 2017, led by  Latin
America  and the  Middle East , European rail industry federation
 Unife  and Roland Berger Consultants  said  in September.  “Tendering activity is good,” Poupart-Lafarge said.
Alstom, based in Levallois-Perret near Paris, has recently made
an offer to supply high-speed trains in Switzerland and metro
cars in  New Delhi . The company is also preparing this year’s
tenders such as the Riyadh metro, trams, regional trains and
locomotives in  Russia , and a high-speed rail line in  Brazil , for
which it’s planning to partner with local builders and the
French railways, he said.  New Rivals  While the company is winning business, competition is
rising, Poupart-Lafarge said.  “We’re seeing mid-sized players competing with us in new
countries,” he said, citing Spanish manufacturers,  Italy ’s
AnsaldoBreda SpA,  Switzerland ’s Stadler Rail AG, as well as
Asian rivals. “Competition is intense.”  As orders dwindled during the global crisis, Alstom’s
transport sales  fell  8 percent to a six-year low of 5.2 billion
euros in the year ended March 2012. The unit’s operating margin
fell to 5.1 percent from 7.1 percent a year earlier.  To adapt its global footprint, the French company has
recently cut 1,380  jobs  at its transport unit in Western Europe,
bought a 25 percent stake in Russia trainmaker Transmashholding
for $425 million, and invested in new metro plants in  India  and
locomotive facilities in  Kazakhstan .  Public Investments  The changes, which weighed on Alstom Transport’s
profitability and cash flow last year, will allow the unit to
participate in the company’s plan to lift its  operating margin 
by about 1 percentage point by 2015, Poupart-Lafarge said.
“There’s nothing structural” in last year’s margin drop, he
said, while declining to give targets for the rail division.  As European railways investment rebounded, orders jumped by
11 percent to 6.31 billion euros in the year to March 2012, and
by 72 percent to 4.58 billion euros in the six months ended in
September 2012. Sales also started rebounding in the last fiscal
half, boosting the unit’s margin to 5.3 percent. Alstom
announced at least another 1.35 billion euros of rail contracts
in the last three months of 2012, according to a Bloomberg
tally.  “Alstom’s made efforts to catch up in its urban and
suburban trains which are paying off,” sArnaud Schmit, an
analyst at Natixis in Paris, said in an interview. He predicts
the margin of Alstom Transport to rise to 6.6 percent by March
2015.  Brazilian Market  “We’re making huge progress in terms of geographical
coverage,” Poupart-Lafarge said. The investments of the
transport unit, which amounted to 106 million euros in the last
fiscal year, won’t show “major changes” in coming years as the
company builds and maintains plants, he said.  The company plans to spend 6 million euros on a new metro
assembly line in Brazil and “several tens of million dollars”
to build a plant and a supply chain in  South Africa , Poupart-
Lafarge said. It will also set up tram plants with partners in
Canada and  Algeria , he said.  The company may announce a tram partnership in  China  this
year, depending on tenders, according to Poupart-Lafarge. It’s
not looking at acquisitions for now, and has nothing similar to
the Transmashholding deal “on the table.”  “We must continue to improve quality, reduce lead time,
while remaining competitive vis-a-vis the competition which has
some strengths and weaknesses,” Poupart-Lafarge said. “We’re
very well placed. A lot of things are in our hands.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  