-- Amazon.Com, Macy’s, Sears Settle FTC Mislabelling Claims
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-03T23:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/amazon-com-macy-s-sears-settle-ftc-mislabelling-claims.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , Macy’s Inc. and
 Sears Holding Corp. (SHLD)  agreed to settle U.S. government lawsuits
over claims they misled consumers by selling rayon fabrics
labeled as made from bamboo fiber.  The retailers, without admitting or denying the
commission’s allegations, agreed to make payments to the
government and to accept compliance monitoring and reporting,
according to proposed settlements filed today in federal court
in  Washington . Leon Max Inc. agreed to settle a similar suit.  The companies sold products such as Armani underwear and
baby blankets as containing bamboo when none of the plant’s
unaltered fiber was woven into the fabric, the agency alleged in
complaints filed ahead of the proposed settlement agreements.  “Consumers pay a premium for products labeled and
advertised as being made from bamboo because they believe that
the product is made from a renewable resource and is good for
the environment,” Stuart Delery, who heads the  Justice
Department ’s civil division, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Consumers expect that they will get what they pay for; here,
they didn’t.”  The cases were referred to the department by the Federal
Trade Commission, which investigates violations of the Textile
Fiber Products Identification Act.  The settlements, which need approval by a federal judge,
were filed almost three years after the commission sent letters
to 78 retailers warning them to stop labeling and advertising
rayon products as bamboo.  Amazon, Macy’s and Sears were among the companies that
received the letter, according to the commission.  Sears agreed to pay a $475,000 penalty; Amazon.com,
$455,000; Macy’s, $250,000; and Leon Max, $80,000.  Identification Act  “We cooperated with the FTC in reaching this settlement in
lieu of pursuing further litigation,” Howard Riefs, a spokesman
for Sears, said in an e-mailed statement. “We continue to take
these regulations seriously.”  A message left with Amazon.com’s media relations department
seeking comment on the case wasn’t answered.  Jim Sluzewski , a
spokesman for Macy’s, declined to comment on the settlement.  The cases are U.S. v. Amazon.com, 13-cv-00002; U.S. v.
 Macy’s Inc., (M)  13-cv-00004; U.S. v. Sears, Roebuck and Co., 13-cv-
00005; and U.S. v. Leon Max Inc., 13-cv-00003, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 