-- AMR Sees US Airways Merger Review Concluded Within Weeks
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2013-01-04T00:51:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/amr-sees-us-airways-merger-review-concluded-within-weeks.html
American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ,
now reorganizing in bankruptcy, expects to reach a decision
within weeks on whether to merge with  US Airways  Group Inc. or
remain independent, Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton  said.  The company’s board and unsecured creditors committee asked
unions at  Fort Worth , Texas-based American and at US Airways to
help evaluate the benefits, costs and risks of a deal, Horton
said today in a memo to employees.  “I can assure you we are conducting a collaborative, fact-
based analysis to determine the best path forward for
American,” Horton wrote. “While I cannot give you a precise
date, I can tell you that we expect to bring this to conclusion
within a matter of weeks.”  AMR has a board meeting set for Jan. 9 at which it hoped to
be ready to decide whether to go ahead on a tie-up, people
familiar with the matter said in mid-December.  US Airways (LCC)  has
been pursuing a merger with American, which filed for bankruptcy
in November 2011, to form the world’s largest carrier.  Progress toward a possible tie-up continues.  The board of the  Allied Pilots Association , which
represents 8,000 American pilots, approved an interim labor
agreement last weekend that removes one more hurdle to a merger.  Union Review  The deal is now being considered by the US Airline Pilots
Association, which represents 5,200 US Airways pilots, and
management at both carriers, the APA said on Dec. 29. Approval
would blunt the risk of labor objections to a merger by easing
the two unions toward a joint contract aligning pay and work
rules.  American is assessing that agreement as part of the merger
evaluation, Horton said in his message to employees.  “I have been personally involved in all deliberations
regarding the overall strategic review and focused intently on
creating a framework with the unions and for all our employee
groups that keeps American competitive and allows us to build a
successful future,” Horton said.  A combination of American, the third-biggest U.S. carrier,
and No. 5 US Airways would surpass United Continental Holdings
Inc. as the world’s largest airline, based on passenger traffic.  AMR filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy ahead of a fourth
straight annual loss. Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways began
pursuing a takeover in early 2012.  The case is in re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  