-- Angry at the NRA? That Won’t Reduce Gun Violence
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2013-01-03T22:40:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/angry-at-the-nra-that-won-t-reduce-gun-violence.html
Support for stricter U.S. gun laws
hasn’t jumped as fast or as far in recent weeks as many liberals
had hoped and expected. If you’re wondering why, maybe the
reason is the shakiness of the public’s trust in government
itself.  After the horrific murders three weeks ago at Sandy Hook
Elementary School in Newtown,  Connecticut ,  gun-control  advocates
confidently predicted that a wave of revulsion would sweep the
nation. We would, in the popular argot, “hit the reset button,”
beginning a fresh debate on new terms.  It hasn’t happened that way. Consider a recent  roundup  of
opinion surveys. In the USA Today-Gallup Poll taken just a week
after the shooting, when one would expect the largest emotional
effect, support for “more strict” gun control in the abstract
was at 58 percent, compared with 43 percent about a year
earlier. On specifics, 74 percent opposed a ban on private
ownership of handguns, and 51 percent opposed a ban on private
ownership of assault weapons. (There’s  more support  for posting
armed guards in schools than for limiting access to assault
weapons.)  Sure, advocates can try to twist these polls into policy
preferences. In truth, although the data reflect what might
prove to be temporary majorities for such measures as banning
magazines that hold more than 10 rounds, one searches in vain
for a mandate in support of policies many gun-control advocates
prefer. The urgency seems to have gone out of the argument. Even
the news media seem to have  grown bored  by the whole thing.  No Trust  People will tell pollsters that the widespread
availability of certain types of weapons makes the nation more
dangerous rather than safer, but they don’t support measures to
curtail their use. If Newtown hasn’t pushed the numbers much,
why not? One plausible explanation is a lack of trust in the
people who would be doing the regulating.  The Gallup Organization has been  measuring  Americans’ trust
in their government since 1997. Last year, only half of
Americans said they generally trust the federal government to do
the right thing on domestic policy -- a significant improvement
over the 43 percent figure a year earlier, but nowhere near the
heights of trust one saw in President  Bill Clinton ’s second term
and President  George W. Bush ’s first.  Sad to say, the lack of trust has been well earned.
Consider the recent negotiations over the “fiscal cliff.”
Although the last-minute deal  has its defenders , it nevertheless
showcases the federal government at its least competent. Reform
of entitlements and the  tax code  is left for later. Increasing
the debt limit is kicked down the road. And, as usual, the
legislation was too long for members to read before they were
required to vote. None of this helps to improve the image of
 Washington .  We are now approaching four years since the  U.S. Senate 
enacted a budget. The last was in April 2009. And bear in mind
that federal law requires an annual budget. Imagine the ire of
the senators toward a private firm that treated legal
requirements so casually.  Amid such ineptitude, “Trust us, we’ll protect you,” isn’t
a very persuasive case to make to the tens of millions of
Americans who have guns -- often very powerful ones -- in their
homes. And directing fury at gun owners for their lack of trust
isn’t likely to increase their faith in government.  As a general proposition, arguments born of emotion are not
likely to be well thought out -- or to persuade those not
already on board. Yet anger has been very much the style of the
case for gun control over the past few weeks.  Not Funny  Thus columnist Donald Kaul,  writing in  the  Des Moines 
( Iowa ) Register, has earned harsh but entirely understandable
criticism for this bit of cruel nonsense: “I would tie  Mitch McConnell  and  John Boehner , our esteemed Republican leaders, to
the back of a Chevy pickup truck and drag them around a parking
lot until they saw the light on gun control.” Kaul is trying
without success to be funny, and no doubt the violence of the
imagery is intended as ironic. But the irony fails, probably
because of the anger that the columnist himself admits.  What the polling data teach is that anger isn’t working.
Most people are angry at the shooter and at society. They’re not
particularly angry at supporters of gun rights.  Few groups this side of the now-moribund Moral Majority
seem to excite as much ire and hatred among liberals as the
 National Rifle Association . Most Americans feel otherwise. In a
Gallup poll released last week, the NRA received a  54 percent 
favorable rating. By comparison, as of this writing, the Real
Clear Politics average of President  Barack Obama ’s  approval
rating  stands at 53.4 percent. For Congress, the figure is an
 abysmal 18 percent . In other words: The NRA is as popular as the
president, and three times as popular as Congress.  The Democrats, who read polls very well, have no doubt come
to see that the firearms issue offers less political advantage
than they’d hoped. In a Pew Research Center poll taken two weeks
ago, respondents were asked if either party “could do a better
job reflecting your views about gun control.” Twenty-seven
percent said the Republicans could; 28 percent said the
Democrats could. The same poll asked about the influence of the
National Rifle Association on policy. Some 36 percent said the
NRA had too much influence, and 47 percent said the group had
the right amount or too little.  These numbers suggest that directing hatred and invective
toward either the NRA or the gun owners it represents is not, to
say the least, a winning strategy. Nor should it ever be: In a
democracy, invective is not a proper form of political argument.  There is a reasoned case to be made for reducing access to
certain firearms, as there is a reasoned case to be made for
many a controversial policy. But we don’t live in a reasonable
era. We live in an era of fury and invective, of applause lines
and slogans. Maybe the poll numbers on gun control will serve to
remind us that until our politics are able to rise above the
nonsense, trust in government will continue to fall.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and the
novel “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or  @StepCarter  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 