-- ArcelorMittal Deal Fuels Iron-Ore Rally
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e ,   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t   a n d   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-01-03T13:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/arcelormittal-deal-fuels-iron-ore-rally-corporate-canada.html
The $1.1-billion purchase of a stake
in  ArcelorMittal (MT) ’s Canadian iron-ore unit by  China Steel Corp. (2002) 
and Posco increased interest in  Canada ’s ability to meet Asian
demand for the steelmaking raw material.  Champion Iron Ore Mines Ltd.,  Alderon Iron Ore Corp. (ADV)  and
 Labrador Iron Mines Holdings Ltd. (LIM)  surged yesterday in Toronto
after Taiwan’s  China Steel  and South Korea’s Posco led a group
that agreed to buy 15 percent of ArcelorMittal Mines Canada Inc.  The deal, the second-biggest in the Canadian iron-ore
industry, gives the Asian steelmakers’ group access to deposits
generating about 40 percent of the country’s production of the
commodity, Luxembourg-based ArcelorMittal said on its website.  “It shows you that Canada is an important iron-ore
producer and you’ve got foreign buyers demonstrating an interest
in the product that we have, the infrastructure and the risks
involved in operating here,” said Wojtek Nowak, a Toronto-based
analyst at Fraser Mackenzie Ltd.  Canada is positioning itself as a source of shipments to
compete with Australia and  Brazil , the world’s two largest iron-
ore exporters. Canada’s  Champion (CHM) , Alderon and Labrador Iron plan
to capitalize on the country’s supply of skilled labor and its
lower political risk compared with rival iron-ore regions such
as West Africa.  Labrador Trough  ArcelorMittal, Champion and Alderon have projects in the
so-called Labrador Trough, a geological region straddling
northern  Quebec  and neighboring Labrador.  Champion, which rose 17 percent in Toronto yesterday, had
slumped 54 percent in 2012. Alderon, which gained 8 percent,
dropped 34 percent last year. Labrador Iron, up 32 percent
yesterday, plunged 78 percent in 2012.  The ArcelorMittal transaction creates a floor for iron-ore
assets, William Frohnhoefer, New York-based analyst at BTIG LLC,
said yesterday by telephone.  “The dynamics coming into play are not necessarily related
to the current spot price but long-term supply for guys who are
not in home markets that are conducive to quality long-term
 iron-ore  supply,” he said.  Iron ore delivered at  China ’s Tianjin port, a global
benchmark price, slumped as much as 37 percent in 2012,
according to data from The Steel Index. It touched $86.70 a ton
on Sept. 5, the lowest in more than two years, as China’s
economic growth slowed, before rallying in December as
confidence mounted that growth will accelerate.  ‘Market Validation’  The  price  was $144.90 yesterday. Shipments of iron ore to
China are likely to rise after inventories at local ports fell
to the lowest since 2010, Arctic Securities ASA said yesterday.  “The trend is strengthening with higher prices and tighter
supply,” said Laurence Balter, an analyst at Oracle Investment
Research in Fox Island,  Washington . “Cash-rich buyers hooking
up with debt-laden producers is a matrimony made in heaven.”  The ArcelorMittal deal “is a market validation of the
Labrador Trough,” said Rodney Cooper, president and chief
operating officer at Labrador Iron, whose James mine began full
production in April. “It indicates there are still large global
players who are aware of the Labrador Trough and willing to
invest significant amounts.”  Messages left with Champion and calls to ArcelorMittal’s
office in  Montreal  weren’t immediately returned.  Supply Deals  Cooper says his company is talking with non-Canadian firms,
including steelmakers, who have a “very strong” interest in
forging supply agreements.  Asian steelmakers are already active in Canada with the
objective of securing iron ore. India’s  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)  is
working with Calgary-based New Millennium Capital Corp. to
develop iron-ore deposits in Quebec and Labrador.  China’s Hebei Iron & Steel Group Co. Ltd. acquired a 20
percent stake in Alderon in April for C$194 million ($197
million). Hebei said at the time it will get most of the output
from Alderon’s Kami project as part of the deal.  The Vancouver-based company is in discussions with
steelmakers in Japan, Korea and Taiwan as well as traders in
Europe for the remaining 40 percent of Kami’s production,
Alderon Chief Executive Officer Tayfun Eldem said in a telephone
interview from Montreal.  The ArcelorMittal deal “bodes really well for the region
and confirms the continued interest by particularly investors
from the  Far East ” he said.  Quebec Plan  In 2011, ArcelorMittal and Nunavut Iron Ore Acquisition
Inc. agreed to pay about C$590 million to buy Canada’s
Baffinland Iron Mines Corp. That gave ArcelorMittal control of
the Mary River iron-ore project on Baffin Island, about 600
miles northwest of Iqaluit, the capital of Nunavut.  Last month ArcelorMittal reduced its stake in Mary River to
50 percent from 70 percent, though the company will remain the
project’s operator, according to a Dec. 13 statement.  Canada was the ninth-biggest producer of iron ore in 2011
with 37 million tons, according to U.S. Geological Survey  data .
China, the No. 1 steelmaker, was the largest miner with 1.2
billion. In terms of so-called crude ore reserves, Canada is
sixth, behind Australia, Brazil,  Russia , China and India, the
data show.  In Quebec, Canada’s largest iron-ore-producing province,
ArcelorMittal’s Mont-Wright complex yields about 15 million tons
a year. The company plans to double output there, according to a
presentation on its  website . ArcelorMittal is developing
deposits at Mont-Reed and Fire Lake, which also are in Quebec
and within the Labrador Trough.  Debt Reduction  ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steelmaker, was created
in 2006 when billionaire  Lakshmi Mittal ’s Mittal Steel Co.
acquired Arcelor SA in the industry’s largest takeover. The
company has added mining assets since then in Canada, Brazil,
Russia and Liberia as part of a strategy to increase its raw
materials self-sufficiency. Its goal is to produce 84 million
tons of iron-ore annually by 2015.  The company is selling the stake in the iron-ore unit to
help reduce debt after  Standard & Poor’s  cut its rating on the
steelmaker to junk level in August. ArcelorMittal has already
slashed its dividend and moved output to cheaper sites.  For China Steel and  Posco (005490) , the deal helps them diversify
their sources of high-quality ore, which tends to contain fewer
impurities such as silica and phosphorous, Fraser Mackenzie’s
Nowak said.  “The bulk of iron ore on the seaborne market is coming out
of Australia and Brazil and it tends to be a higher percentage
iron coming out of the ground, but that is starting to decrease
over time,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Sonja Elmquist in  New York  at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  