-- Cameron Rebuffs Argentine Call to Hand Over Falklands
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-01-03T15:48:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/argentine-president-calls-on-cameron-to-return-falklands.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
rebuffed a call by Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  to hand over the Falkland Islands, 31 years after the
two countries went to war over the South Atlantic archipelago.  “The future of the Falkland Islands should be determined
by the Falkland Islanders themselves, the people who live
there,” Cameron told reporters today in Preston, northwest
 England . “They’re holding a referendum this year and I hope the
president of  Argentina  will listen to that referendum and
recognize it is for the Falkland Islanders to choose their
future, and as long as they choose to stay with the  United
Kingdom  they have my 100 percent backing.”  In an open letter to Cameron published today in U.K. and
U.S. newspapers, Fernandez said he should abide by a 1960 United
Nations resolution urging member states to “end colonialism in
all its forms and manifestations.” Britain should begin
negotiations over the sovereignty of the islands, which were
“forcibly stripped” from Argentina exactly 180 years ago, on
Jan. 3, 1833, she told the prime minister.  The two countries went to war in 1982 after Argentine
forces invaded the Falklands, which Argentina calls the
Malvinas. Tensions heightened last year, with Argentina
protesting the U.K.’s deployment of a modern warship to the
region.  ‘Vast Majority’  “The question of the Malvinas is also a cause embraced by
 Latin America  and by a vast majority of peoples and governments
around the world that reject colonialism,” Fernandez wrote. The
Falklands are situated 14,000 kilometers (8,700 miles) away from
London, she wrote.  Fernandez’s letter follows Britain’s decision last month to
name a territory in the Antarctic after  Queen Elizabeth II , as
part of celebrations over her 60 years on the throne. Argentina,
which lays claim to the land, said the decision was a
provocative act.  “The people of the Falklands are British and have chosen
to be so,” the U.K. Foreign Office said in an e-mailed
statement. “There are three parties to this debate, not just
two as Argentina likes to pretend. The islanders can’t just be
written out of history.”  The islands provided the spark for a confrontation between
Cameron and Fernandez at a meeting of Group of 20 leaders in
June. Cameron approached Fernandez at the talks in the Mexican
resort of Los Cabos, telling her that she should “respect the
views” of the islanders, according to Alfredo Scoccimarro, a
spokesman for Fernandez. She responded by trying to hand him an
envelope stuffed with UN resolutions on the islands, Scoccimarro
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  