-- Marusan-Ai Sued in Australia Over Tainted Soy Milk Claims
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-01-03T08:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/marusan-ai-sued-in-australia-over-tainted-soy-milk-claims.html
Marusan-ai Co., (2551)  a Japanese producer
of miso and soy milk products, is one of three companies sued in
connection with the sale of tainted soy milk in  Australia , a  law
firm  said.  Marusan-ai and Muso Co., which exported the soy milk to
Australia, were added to a lawsuit filed on behalf of more than
600 Australians claiming to have been made sick after drinking
tainted products, Australian class-action firm  Maurice Blackburn
Lawyers  said in an amended statement of claim. The Japanese
companies ignored tests showing high levels of iodine, the law
firm said.  Maurice Blackburn sued Spiral Foods Pty, a Melbourne-based
supplier of organic foods, in 2010, claiming its Bonsoy Milk
contained excessive amounts of iodine, which can be harmful to
health. Spiral Foods voluntarily  withdrew  Bonsoy from the
Australian market in December 2009, Maurice Blackburn said.  “These three companies had test results in mid-2006 which
showed that Bonsoy contained extremely high levels of iodine,”
 Maurice Blackburn  said in  statement  on its website today. “They
did nothing.”  Calls to Marusan-ai’s offices in Tokyo and Okazaki City,
Aichi prefecture and Muso’s office in Osaka were diverted to
answering machines on a public holiday in Japan.  The Australian law firm said it will request a trial date
at a preliminary hearing scheduled for Mar. 8.  Excessive iodine consumption can result in heart
palpitations, pain in the muscles and an enlarged thyroid gland,
Maurice Blackburn said.  The case is Between Erin Downie and Spiral Foods Pty.
SCI2010-05318  Supreme Court  of Victoria (Melbourne).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  