-- Japan’s Aso Targets Myanmar Markets Amid China Rivalry: Economy
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2013-01-03T11:51:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/aso-leads-japanese-push-into-myanmar-market-dominated-by-china.html
Japan ’s Finance Minister Taro Aso met
with Myanmar’s president and senior officials today in a sign
the nation plans to tap a market of 64 million people that has
been dominated by  China .  The visit is the first overseas trip by a member of Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s cabinet that took office last month. It
coincides with the U.S. and the  United Nations  expressing
concern over government strikes against ethnic rebels in
Myanmar’s north.  “It sends a message that Myanmar was chosen as the first
overseas country to be visited by officials of the new
government,” Aso told reporters outside the parliament building
in Naypyidaw, the nation’s capital. “We’ll help build an
environment in which economic growth can flourish in Myanmar,”
he said, adding that help depends on democratic reforms.  Japan’s push into the nation bordering  India  and China may
produce trade opportunities for its stagnating economy while
helping Myanmar President Thein Sein meet a pledge to attract
labor-intensive industries to create jobs. Competing Chinese and
Japanese efforts risk further straining relations between  Asia ’s
two biggest economies, already at odds over islands in the  East
China Sea .  “China considers Myanmar as its turf, and China is very
sensitive of the U.S. and Japan making headway,” said  Takuji Okubo , Tokyo-based chief economist at Japan Macro Advisors.
“Myanmar could be another source of conflict.”  Waiving Debt  Japan plans to provide Myanmar with a 50-billion yen ($574
million) loan by the end of March and to continue with
previously announced plans to waive debt that it is owed,
according to three Japanese government officials, who asked not
to be identified in line with procedures for such briefings.  Aso, who is also deputy prime minister, will visit tomorrow
an economic zone south of Yangon, the former capital, that
companies including Marubeni Corp. and  Sumitomo Corp. (8053)  may help
to develop.  The U.S. is “deeply troubled” that the military is using
aerial weapons in the region of Kachin, State Department
spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said yesterday. UN Secretary-General
Ban Ki-Moon said that the government should “desist from any
action that could endanger the lives of civilians” or intensify
the conflict.  Democratic reforms since Thein Sein took power in 2011
prompted Western nations to ease sanctions and galvanized
lawmakers to focus on economic growth after about five decades
of military rule left Myanmar disconnected from the global
financial system.  Foreign Investment  Direct foreign investment into the nation will have risen
40 percent to a record $3.99 billion last year, according to a
forecast from the  International Monetary Fund . Rich resources
span gas, gems and possibly oil, the  World Bank  says.  The  Asian Development Bank  forecasts that Myanmar’s gross
domestic product may expand 6.3 percent this year after an
estimated 6 percent gain in 2012. The country has high potential
for rapid growth and development given its natural resources,
abundant  labor force  and strategic location between China and
India, the ADB said in an August report.  “Myanmar could become one of the next rising stars in Asia
if it can successfully leverage its rich endowments,” the
 development bank  said.  Relations between Japan and China have been strained by a
dispute over sovereignty of uninhabited islands in the East
China Sea. China accounted for about half of the foreign
investment Myanmar has attracted since 2008, according to the
Central Statistical Organization, a government agency in
Naypyidaw.  People’s Will  In 2011,  Thein Sein  halted work on the $3.6 billion
Myitsone hydropower dam across the Irrawaddy River that was
being built with China Power Investment Corp., saying the
project was against the “will of the people.” China Power
called the decision “bewildering” and said it would hold talks
with the government to resume the project.  China National Petroleum Corp., China’s biggest energy
producer, is building pipelines in Myanmar, and China Nonferrous
Metals Co. is developing a nickel mine in the country.  “Myanmar has been a kind of protectorate of China, but
Myanmar is currently seeking alternative sources of investment,
given the excessive presence of China,” said Okubo, who
formerly worked at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Societe Generale
SA.  Aso had planned to visit the Southeast Asian nation before
his ministerial appointment, as a member of the Japan-Myanmar
Association, a group established to boost Japanese business
opportunities. In November,  Barack Obama  became the first
sitting U.S. president to go there.  Bank Ventures  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. said Dec. 28 it would
ally with Myanmar’s Co-Operative Bank Ltd. to tap growing demand
for financial services. Japan’s biggest lender joins Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc. in forming tie-ups with local banks.  China today reported an increase in a services-industry
gauge, adding to signs that the world’s second-biggest economy
is rebounding after seven-quarter slowdown.  The non-manufacturing purchasing managers’ index was at
56.1 in December after a 55.6 reading the previous month, the
National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics
& Purchasing said in Beijing today. A reading above 50 indicates
expansion.  The U.S. will report mortgage applications and initial
jobless claims today and the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is
set to give the latest reading on sentiment in the world’s
biggest economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  