-- Australian Stocks Fall on Fed Minutes; Japanese Futures Rise
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-01-03T23:23:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/australian-stocks-fall-on-fed-minutes-japanese-futures-rise.html
Australian  stocks  fell after Federal
Reserve policy makers said they will probably end their $85
billion monthly bond-purchase program sometime this year.
Japanese equity futures rose ahead of markets reopening today.  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining companies,
dropped 1.1 percent, as metals prices fell. American Depositary
Receipts of Toyota Motor Corp. surged 4.2 percent from the most
recent closing price as  Japan ’s equity markets reopen today
after holidays. Japan Exchange Group will start trading after
the merger between  Osaka  Securities Exchange Co. and Tokyo Stock
Exchange Group.  Australia ’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  declined 0.3 percent to
4,727.90 as of 10:11 a.m. in Sydney, retreating from yesterday’s
highest level since May 2011.  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  futures
were bid in the pre-market at 10,650 in Osaka today. That’s 2.5
percent higher than their most recent close of 10,390 on Dec.
28, according data compiled by Bloomberg. Markets also repoen
today in China.  “The central concern to come out of the Fed minutes is a
call to wind back bond buying,” said Evan Lucas, Melbourne-
based market strategist at IG Markets Ltd., a provider of
trading services in equities, currencies and commodities. “This
takes some of the steam from the market that we’ve seen
recently.”  Four years after cutting the main interest rate to near
zero, U.S. policy makers have been expanding their third round
of so-called quantitative easing to boost economic growth and
cut the jobless rate, now at 7.7 percent.  Fed Minutes  Fed minutes, released yesterday in  Washington , show a
divide among FOMC participants on how long bond purchases should
last. Participants who provided estimates were “approximately
evenly divided” between those who said it would be appropriate
to end the purchases around mid-2013 and those who said they
should continue beyond that date.  Japanese equities begin the first day of trading for 2013.
The benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 23 percent last
year, accelerating in December as the pro-stimulus Liberal
Democratic Party won a general election, boosting optimism that
Japan’s new leaders will do more to fight deflation and spur the
economy. The yen traded at the weakest level against the dollar
since July 2010 today, bolstering the nation’s exporters, amid
speculation new Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will push the central
bank to increase cash infusions.  Chinese Markets  Investors in mainland  China , where the local equity market
reopens today after a holiday, will join those in Japan having
their first opportunity to trade following this week’s deal to
avoid the so-called fiscal cliff in the U.S.  Global equities have climbed in 2013 as U.S. lawmakers
passed a bill averting spending cuts and tax increases scheduled
to come into effect this year. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
yesterday climbed within one point of its highest closing level
in five years before retreating. Futures on the S&P 500 were
little changed today.  The London Metals Exchange Index of six industrial metals
sank 1.2 percent yesterday.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland Chinese
firms trading in Hong Kong has climbed 4.8 percent in Hong Kong
during the past two days, while the  Bloomberg China-US Equity
Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese shares in New York rose 2.2
percent, as data from manufacturing to service-sector growth
signaled the world’s second-biggest economy is rebounding from
its seven-quarter slowdown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  