-- Australia Swelters in Biggest Heat Wave Since 2001
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-01-03T06:46:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/australia-swelters-amid-most-wide-ranging-heatwave-since-2001.html
Australia  is facing its most wide-
ranging heatwave in more than a decade as 80 percent of the
continent is hit by temperatures above 40 degrees Celsius (104
degrees Fahrenheit), the  Bureau of Meteorology  said.  State emergency services have flagged the risk of wildfires
that could threaten homes and farms, while power companies are
bracing for increased demand for electricity. The extreme
weather, caused by a mass of hot air, has spread east from
 Western Australia  and is expected to affect the most populous
states of Victoria and New South Wales in the next week.  “It is a very wide-ranging heatwave,” Blair Trewin, a
climatologist at the Bureau of Meteorology, said by telephone
from Melbourne. The last time such large swathes of the country
experienced comparable heat was in 2001, he said.  Crops in Australia, last year’s second-biggest wheat
exporter, may escape the worst of the heatwave. Harvesting of
winter crops including wheat, barley and canola, is nearly
complete in southern New South Wales and Victoria,  GrainCorp
Ltd. (GNC) , eastern Australia’s largest grain handler, said Dec. 24.
The harvest is all but complete across most of  South Australia ,
according to Viterra Inc.  The hot weather “may have an impact on dryland cotton, but
there’s not much of that around this year,”  Paul Deane , an
agricultural economist at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ) , said by phone from Melbourne. “It can increase the chance
of crop stress, but as long as they’re well irrigated, I don’t
know that it potentially has a massive impact.”  Record Temperature  Temperatures could top 47 degrees Celsius in South
Australia, where a national record of 50.7 degrees Celsius was
recorded in 1960, the weather bureau said.  Rainfall was generally below to very-much-below average
across the southern half of mainland Australia from April, the
bureau said. Southwest Western Australia had the driest July on
record while southern Australia had lowest-on-record October
rainfall, it said.  The  Country Fire Service  in South Australia flagged severe
danger ratings for eight districts and warned that if a blaze
took hold it would be difficult for authorities to bring it
under control.  Australia’s hot, dry climate makes bush fires a major risk
in the southern summer months. The worst fires in Australian
history, the so-called Black Saturday blazes, killed 173 people
as they swept through rural parts of Victoria state in February
2009.  Outback Town  The heatwave will affect much of Victoria state, western
New South  Wales , western Queensland, most of South Australia,
the southern half of the Northern Territory and parts of Western
Australia.  “This is the hottest weather I have ever experienced in my
five years here,” Kyle Hay, an employee at the Opal Inn in the
South Australian Outback town of Coober Pedy, said by telephone.
“The town’s a lot quieter and there is a lot less business.”  While electricity generators are gearing up to meet higher
demand from households, they have enough capacity as many
industries are shut down during the vacation period, said
Malcolm Roberts, chief executive officer of the Energy Networks
Association, which represents the nation’s electricity and gas
network companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net ;
Phoebe Sedgman in  Melbourne  at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  