-- Tax-Rate Boost Sustains Longest Rally in Five Years: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-01-03T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/tax-rate-boost-sustains-longest-rally-in-five-years-muni-credit.html
Income-tax increases for the
wealthiest Americans are poised to sustain the longest
municipal-bond rally in five years, even as U.S. localities are
set to sell the most debt since 2010.  States and cities will issue as much as $386 billion in
2013, according to the average of estimates from Citigroup Inc.,
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan
Stanley and RBC Capital Markets LLC. That would be up from about
 $352 billion  in 2012 and the most since the Build America Bonds
program expired two years ago, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  About 77 percent of U.S. households face higher levies
after Congress this week ended a payroll tax cut, according to
the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center in  Washington . In a Jan. 1
accord to avert most of the $600 billion of tax increases and
spending cuts slated to begin this month, lawmakers also boosted
income-tax rates on households earning $450,000 or more to 39.6
percent, from 35 percent.  “That’s positive for municipals because it makes the tax
exemption more attractive,” said Alan Schankel, managing
director of fixed-income research at Janney in Philadelphia.  Gross’s Pick  Investors betting tax rates would rise as part of steps to
curb the federal deficit pushed yields on 20-year general
obligations to a 47-year low of 3.27 percent last month,
according to a Bond Buyer  index .  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s largest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., included “high-quality”
munis in his December list of picks. He has directed 5 percent
of his $285 billion fund to munis for three straight months.
It’s the longest stretch where local borrowings have been that
high a percentage since at least 2006.  The $3.7 trillion muni market earned 7.3 percent in 2012,
compared with 2.2 percent for Treasuries, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data. Another positive return from tax-
exempts in 2013 would mark the fifth straight year they
delivered gains, the longest stretch since 2007.  As prices on fixed-income assets fell yesterday after the
deal in Congress, yields on benchmark tax-frees due in 10 years
climbed to  1.83 percent , the highest since August, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. For investors in the 39.6 percent tax
bracket, the equivalent taxable yield is 3.03 percent.
Treasuries of that maturity yielded 1.84 percent yesterday.  Banks’ Forecasts  States and cities may sell as much as $415 billion of debt
this year, Michael Zezas, a muni strategist at Morgan Stanley in
New York, wrote in a Dec. 4 report.  George Friedlander , senior
muni strategist at Citigroup, anticipates about $400 billion of
deals. JPMorgan expects $390 billion, analyst Peter DeGroot
wrote in a November report. Janney expects localities will sell
about $400 billion.  Chris Mauro, head muni strategist at RBC Capital in New
York, has a smaller issuance projection of $325 billion.
Localities have already taken advantage of opportunities to
retire debt sold under higher interest rates, he said. Those
deals included refinancings where proceeds sit in escrow until
the original bonds can be repaid -- so-called advance
refundings.  “A lot of issues that would be eligible for current
refunding in 2013 have in fact been already taken out by advance
refunding deals in 2012,” he said.  The debate on munis’ tax exemption may cause his issuance
projection to fall short, he said.  President  Barack Obama  has proposed limiting the value of
the muni tax break for higher earners to 28 percent.  Such a move might prompt municipalities to ramp up
borrowing before any changes take effect, Mauro said.  For now, the higher income-tax rates are driving investors.  The largest exchange-traded fund tracking munis, the
iShares S&P National AMT-Free  Municipal Bond Fund (MUB) , rose 1.1
percent yesterday to $111.80, the biggest gain since February.  Following is a pending sale:  OHIO plans to sell $219 million of general-obligation debt
as soon as Jan. 8, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Proceeds
will help finance capital projects and refund debt, according to
bond documents. (Added Jan. 2)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  