-- Lazard Revenue Seen Jumping as Budget Deal Fuels Mergers
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-01-03T16:12:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/lazard-revenue-seen-jumping-as-budget-deal-fuels-mergers.html
Merger advisers  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and
 Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  will benefit from an increase in
acquisitions fueled by a deal to avoid tax increases and
spending cuts set to take effect this week, JMP Securities LLC’s
 David Trone  said.  “Companies have lots of cash on their balance sheets,
credit is cheap, and industries have pent-up merger demand,”
Trone said today in a note to clients. “The only hold-up has
been executive skittishness, and our new assumption is that fear
is lifted meaningfully, even if not completely.”  The U.S. Congress passed a bill on Jan. 1 making income-tax
cuts started under President George W. Bush permanent for most
workers, while allowing reductions in the rates for top earners
to expire. The legislation averted $600 billion in immediate tax
increases and spending cuts, known as the fiscal cliff, which
risked putting the U.S. economy into a recession.  “While Washington still has issues to resolve, the
avoidance of the cliff means businesses should be more inclined
to merge,” Trone wrote.  Lazard, the largest independent advisory firm, Evercore,
founded by former U.S. Deputy Treasury Secretary Roger Altman,
and  Greenhill & Co. (GHL)  don’t face trading and balance-sheet risks
tied to the European sovereign-debt crisis, giving them an
advantage over their larger, so-called bulge-bracket rivals,
including New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Trone wrote.  “Independent firms have already been growing market share
over time and now they have a bigger opportunity for luring
talent from the bulge firms than ever before,” Trone said in
the note.  Lazard, based in Hamilton,  Bermuda , rose 1.3 percent to
$31.69 at 10:50 a.m. in New York. Evercore, based in New York,
climbed 1.4 percent to $31.85, and Greenhill, also based in New
York, increased 1.3 percent to $54.80.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  