-- Barcelona Water Privatization Deal Faces Legal Action on Appeal
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-01-03T14:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/barcelona-water-privatization-deal-faces-legal-action-on-appeal.html
Acciona SA (ANA)  and Brazilian partner BTG
Pactual said they are preparing legal action after the Catalan
regional government accepted an appeal against a 1 billion-euro
($1.3 billion) contract to privatize Barcelona’s water supply.  The companies, which made a first payment of 299 million
euros to regional authorities on Dec. 27, have officially
managed Barcelona’s water since Jan. 1. They’re seeking a full
refund should the water contract be annulled as Acciona in a
regulatory filing said all conditions of the bid have been met.  The Barcelona-based water utility Sociedad General de Aguas
de Barcelona SA has challenged the contract, with the appeal
accepted yesterday by the regional government, according to the
filing. Catalan President Artur Mas was sworn in for a second
term last month after negotiating a deal with the Catalan
Republican Left known as ERC, which favors independence for
Spain’s biggest regional economy and opposes asset disposals
such as Barcelona’s water.  Acciona is an Alcobendas, Spain-based renewable energy
provider whose water unit Acciona Agua operates from  Africa  to
 Latin America , including desalination plants in  Australia .  ERC leader Oriol Junqueras in November’s regional election
doubled his number of seats as Mas’s support slipped. The
leaders have agreed to prepare Catalonia for a referendum on
independence in 2014. Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  says a
secession vote is illegal and moves would be taken to stop it.  A spokesman for the Department of Territory and
Sustainability didn’t respond to phone calls requesting comment
today on the government’s position.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Laya in Madrid at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles Penty at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net  