-- Barnes & Noble Holiday Nook Sales Falter
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2013-01-04T21:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/barnes-noble-holiday-sales-decline-on-nook-devices.html
Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  posted a decline
in retail sales in the holiday season as the largest U.S.
bookstore chain’s efforts to take on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad with
tablet-style Nooks fell flat with shoppers.  Sales from stores and the website sank 11 percent to $1.2
billion, the New York-based company said yesterday in a
statement. Revenue at the Nook unit, which includes devices,
accessories and content, fell 13 percent to $311 million.  Barnes & Noble’s Nook division is key to the company’s
future as it tries to capture consumers switching to reading
electronic books. The retailer released two new versions of the
Nook tablet for the holidays, around the same time Apple
introduced a smaller version of the iPad designed to keep
customers from buying low-cost tablets from competitors.  “Success of the iPad mini likely pressured sales of Nook
tablets,”  David Schick , an analyst at Stifel Financial Corp.,
wrote in a note yesterday.  Apple introduced the smaller version of the iPad in
October. The device has a 7.9-inch (21 centimeter) screen
diagonally and is priced starting at $329. The 9-inch Nook HD+
went on sale in September for $269. Competition also came from
Amazon.com Inc.’s updated set of Kindle Fires that were
announced in September.  Both Amazon and Barnes & Noble have increased access to
content beyond digital books and touted specifications such as
screen resolution and processing speed as selling points to
expand their customer base beyond readers.  ‘Bleak’ Outlook  “It’s a challenging marketplace for them to compete with
the likes of Apple and Amazon,”  Michael Souers , an analyst at
 Standard & Poor’s  in New York, said today in an interview. “It
looks pretty bleak, long-term.”  Barnes & Noble didn’t break out results for specific Nook
models. Sales of digital content rose 13 percent. They more than
doubled during last year’s holiday season and surged 38 percent
in the quarter ended Oct. 27.  “Nook device sales got off to a good start over the Black
Friday period, but then fell short of expectations for the
balance of holiday,” William Lynch, chief executive officer,
said in the statement.  Barnes & Noble  declined  6.1 percent to $13.35 at the close
in New York. The shares gained 4.2 percent last year.  The retailer has been investing in the Nook at the expense
of profits to gain a piece of the growing market for digital
books. The division, which includes a chain of college
bookstores, also received investments from Microsoft Corp. and
 Pearson Plc. (PSON)  The investment from Pearson, announced on Dec. 28,
values the Nook unit at $1.79 billion, more than twice the
market capitalization of the entire company.  Comparable Sales  “We are examining the root cause of the December shortfall
in sales, and will adjust our strategies accordingly going
forward,” Lynch said.  Last week, Barnes & Noble announced that sales for the
holiday period were below forecasts. So-called same-store sales,
a key measure of a retailer’s growth because only established
locations are counted, dropped 8.2 percent, the retailer said
yesterday.  Barnes & Noble underperformed other retailers, which
reported same-store sales yesterday. Revenue by that measure for
the more than 20 companies tracked by Swampscott, Massachusetts-
based Retail Metrics rose 4.8 percent last month, excluding
drugstores, beating the estimate for a 3.4 percent gain, the
firm said. That followed a 1.6 percent gain in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Renee Dudley in New York at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  