-- Biogen Sinks as ALS Drug Fails to Show Efficacy in Trial
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-01-03T21:09:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/biogen-sinks-as-als-drug-fails-to-show-efficacy-in-trial.html
Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  declined the most in
almost two months after the third-biggest biotechnology company
said its experimental drug for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis
failed to help patients in a clinical trial.  Biogen sank 1.4 percent to $147.86 at 4 p.m. New York time
after saying it will end development of the medicine for ALS,
also known as  Lou Gehrig ’s disease. It was the stock’s biggest
one-day decline since Nov. 8. The shares of the Weston,
Massachusetts-based drugmaker have gained 30 percent in the last
12 months.  Biogen’s drug, dexpramipexole, was in the third and final
stages of clinical trials generally required for approval. It
didn’t show any effectiveness in improving patients’ function or
survival, Biogen said in a statement today.  “We (and most of the Street) had characterized this trial
as a high risk trial that carried more upside than downside,”
 Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with ISI Group in New York, wrote
in a note to clients today. “But the sentiment hit is clearly
real and important for a high-flying company that really has
done no-wrong in years.”  ALS, known as Lou Gehrig’s disease for the New York Yankees
baseball player who died from it more than 70 years ago, has no
cure and no medicine has been shown to slow its advance for
long. It affects about 30,000 people in the U.S., causing nerve
damage that leads muscles to shut down progressively over three
to five years until most patients die from respiratory failure.  Early Excitement  The drug had showed hints of promise in earlier studies,
exciting a community of patients with few medical options.
There’s only one drug on the market for ALS,  Sanofi (SAN) ’s Rilutek,
and it provides only a modest benefit in reducing the disease’s
progression.  Phase 2 trials showed that after 12 weeks, people on the
highest dose of dexpramipexole had about a 35 percent slowing of
ALS progression compared with patients taking a placebo. The
results prompted Biogen Chief Executive Officer George Scangos
to highlight the drug at a presentation to investors last
January at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s annual health-care conference.  “This is far from a long shot,” Scangos told the
audience. “We are genuinely hopeful that we will be able to
provide meaningful therapy for the thousands, tens of thousands,
of ALS patients who right now have very little to help them.”  Fast Enrollment  The phase 3 trial, which enrolled its first patient in
March 2011, was filled within four to five months, half the time
a trial of this size -- 943 patients -- would normally take. It
was the fastest study enrollment in Biogen’s history.  A survey of investors in late December showed 46 percent
expected positive results from the phase 3 study, ISI Group’s
Schoenebaum said today. “Ninety percent expected it to be a
small benefit.”  Schoenebaum estimated the drug would bring $100 million in
2016 revenue, and $400 million in annual sales by the end of the
decade. “Thus the impact on our model of today’s failure is not
material,” he said.  “This is a tough field,” Gilmore O’Neill, vice president
of clinical development at Biogen and a physician who treats ALS
patients, said in a telephone interview today. “We actually
knew that when we went in. We are remaining highly committed to
ALS and developing therapeutics.”  Biogen, which sells the multiple sclerosis therapies Avonex
and Tysabri, is awaiting regulatory approval of its first pill
for the disease, BG-12. The MS medicine could draw as much as $4
billion in revenue if approved, according to an October estimate
from Cowen & Co. analyst  Eric Schmidt .  ALS Commitment  Biogen today reiterated its commitment to ALS research,
having started a partnership with  Duke University  and
HudsonAlpha Institute to sequence the genomes of as many as
1,000 patients in the next five years. The company also started
a research group collaborating with academic centers to identify
new ways to treat the disease.  “We are continuously looking” at ALS compounds being
developed outside the company, in addition to working on efforts
within Biogen, O’Neill said. “Our belief about a disease like
ALS is that you need to have that core effort ongoing and that
you have to look around and be opportunistic. We want to take
the best candidates based on data forward into these trials.”  Further data from the phase 3 study will be reported at a
future medical conference, Biogen said.  “As a physician who has treated people with ALS, I hoped
with all my heart for a different outcome,” Douglas Kerr,
Biogen’s director of neurodegeneration clinical research, said
in the statement. “While these results were not what we
expected, we hope these data will provide a foundation for
future ALS research.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  