-- Blackstone Wins Bid to Block Subpoenas Over Dodgers Sale
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-01-03T16:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/blackstone-wins-bid-to-block-subpoenas-over-dodgers-sale-1-.html
Blackstone Group (BX) , which advised on
the $2 billion sale of the  Los Angeles Dodgers , won an order
blocking subpoenas for information related to a divorce
settlement dispute between former team owner Frank McCourt and
his ex-wife Jamie McCourt.  Jamie McCourt, who claims her $131 million settlement is
unfair, issued subpoenas that seek information related to
valuation of assets, according to papers filed Nov. 5 in New
York State Supreme Court.  Justice Jeffrey K. Oing issued the order today at a hearing
in  Manhattan . The subpoenas over the team’s valuation are
premature, Oing said.  The subpoenas issued to Blackstone and senior managing
director Peter Cohen, who worked on the Dodgers sale, are
“vastly overbroad and seek materials that are completely
irrelevant” to asset valuations, Blackstone said.  Jamie McCourt, in a request filed in September in
California state court in  Los Angeles , said the divorce
settlement was based on fraud and should be set aside. To induce
her to accept the $131 million,  Frank McCourt  claimed the value
of their assets was less than $300 million, according to her
request. The sale of the Major League Baseball team left Frank
McCourt with $1.7 billion, she said.  Jamie McCourt’s attorneys said in court papers that Cohen
is the critical witness about what Frank McCourt knew about the
value of the Dodgers.  “Mr. Cohen is the key witness of the issues most germane
to the most to set aside -- namely what Frank knew about the
value of the Dodger assets and when he knew it,” they said.  The case is In the matter of the application of Blackstone
Advisory Partners, 653823-2012, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in  New York  at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  