-- BOE Says Mortgage Availability Rises ‘Significantly’ on FLS
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-01-03T11:13:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/boe-says-mortgage-availability-rises-significantly-on-fls-1-.html
U.K. lenders increased the
availability of mortgages and company loans “significantly” in
the fourth quarter as the  Bank of England ’s credit-boosting
program began to take effect.  An index of the availability of secured loans to households
rose to 26.2 from 21.9 in the third quarter, the Bank of England
said in its quarterly Credit Conditions Survey in  London  today.
A measure for corporate loans jumped to 29.4 from minus 5.5.
Both are at the highest level since the survey began in the
second quarter of 2007. Availability is expected to increase
again this quarter.  “Lenders noted that the Funding for Lending Scheme had
been an important factor behind this increase, consistent with a
reported easing in wholesale funding conditions, pushing up
significantly on credit availability,” the Bank of England
said. “Market share objectives had also contributed
significantly to the increase.”  The central bank is counting on its FLS to stoke the
economy by giving banks access to cheaper finance in return for
increasing credit. Today’s report showed mortgage demand rose in
the fourth quarter, as did demand for credit from medium-sized
firms, while spreads on home loans tightened “significantly.”  The survey “provides further room for optimism that the
FLS, along with a general reduction in market tensions, is
facilitating an improvement in the availability of lending,”
said  David Tinsley , an economist at BNP Paribas in London.  Default Rates  The BOE report showed that largest increase in corporate
credit availability in the fourth quarter was for large and
medium-sized companies, while there was only a “slight
increase” for small firms. Lenders also reported a reduction in
demand from small companies.  The central bank said that defaults on mortgages fell in
the three months through December, though losses from defaults
rose “slightly.” Both defaults and losses were expected to
remain unchanged in the first three months of 2013. For
companies, lenders reported an increase in default rates in the
fourth quarter and rates were expected to rise “slightly
further” this quarter.  Spreads on loans to large and medium-sized companies
tightened significantly in the fourth quarter and a further
tightening is expected this quarter, according to the survey.
Spreads for smaller companies were “broadly unchanged” in the
past three months, and no tightening is foreseen this quarter.
The BOE conducted the survey between Nov. 20 and Dec. 11.  Separately today,  Nationwide Building Society  said U.K.
house prices declined 0.1 percent last month and may fall
“modestly” over 2013. An index of  construction activity  fell
to 48.7 in December -- a six-month low -- from 49.3.  Data from the central bank tomorrow may show  mortgage
approvals  rose to 54,000 in November, according to the median
forecast of 17 economists in a Bloomberg News Survey. While that
would be the most since January, approvals are still only about
half the monthly average of 103,000 in the decade to 2007 before
the financial crisis struck.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  