-- Bovespa Futures Fall After Biggest Two-Day Gain Since September
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-01-03T11:50:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/bovespa-futures-fall-after-biggest-two-day-gain-since-september.html
Bovespa-index futures fell on
speculation gains in the last two sessions were excessive as a
U.S. budget deal may not reduce the deficit enough to avoid a
ratings downgrade in  Brazil ’s second-biggest trading partner.  Iron-ore producer  Vale SA (VALE) , which has the biggest weighting
on the Bovespa, declined in Frankfurt trading. State-controlled
Petroleo Brasileiro SA may be active after confirming “high
potential of oil flow” in a Carcara well.  Bovespa futures retreated 0.3 percent to 62,870 at 9:26
a.m. in Sao Paulo after advancing 3.5 percent in two sessions,
the biggest two-day gain since September. The real retreated 0.2
percent to 2.0493 per dollar. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index
of 24 raw materials slid 0.4 percent and oil fell for the first
time in three days in  New York .  The bill to undo automatic tax increases and spending cuts
that threatened the U.S.’s economic recovery, which was passed
by lawmakers late on Jan. 1, won’t reduce the country’s deficit
enough to avoid a sovereign-rating downgrade, Moody’s Investors
Service said yesterday.  The ratio of  U.S. government debt  to gross domestic product
will probably peak at about 80 percent in 2014 and may stay at
about that level for the rest of the decade, New York-based
Moody’s said. The ratings company assigns the U.S. its top Aaa
ranking and has a negative outlook on the grade. “Further
measures that bring about a downward debt trajectory over the
medium term are likely to be needed,” Moody’s said.  The Bovespa climbed 7.4 percent in 2012 in its biggest
yearly rally since 2009 as stimulus from central banks around
the world eased economic concern and borrowing costs at a record
low in Brazil boosted equity demand.  Trading volume was 7.3 billion reais ($3.6 billion) in
stocks in  Sao Paulo  yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That compares with a daily average of 7.3 billion reais this
year through Dec. 28, according to data compiled by the
exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  