-- Bovespa Enters Bull Market as B2W Leads Consumer Stock Advance
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-01-03T20:27:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/bovespa-rises-as-petrobras-advance-outweighs-u-s-budget-concern.html
The Bovespa index entered a  bull
market  as record-low  interest rates  boosted Brazilian consumer
stocks and commodities exporters advanced on eased concern that
the global slowdown will deepen.  The gauge rose 1.2 percent today to 63,312.46 at the close
in  Sao Paulo , extending its advance to 21 percent from a June 5
bear market low. Online retailer  B2W Cia. Global do Varejo  led
gains over the past seven months, more than tripling.
Homebuilder Gafisa SA more than doubled. Fibria Celulose SA, the
world’s biggest pulp producer, added 92 percent.  Brazilian policy makers have cut borrowing costs by 5.25
percentage points since August 2011 to a record 7.25 percent in
a bid to stoke consumer demand and boost growth. Commodities
producers, which account for about 43 percent of the Bovespa’s
weighting, benefited while raw-material prices measured by the
 Standard & Poor’s GSCI index  jumped 16 percent since a June 21
low as stimulus measures from central banks around the world
eased concern the global slowdown will deepen.  “Domestic consumption was the strongest portion of the
Brazilian economy in 2012 because of government stimulus,”
 Alvaro Bandeira , a partner at Orama Asset Management, said by
phone from Rio de Janeiro. “Investors are more optimistic about
global growth because of signs that activity in China remains
strong and the budget deal in the U.S., so material producers
benefit.”  President  Dilma Rousseff  last year ordered power and phone
companies to lower rates, capped car imports from Mexico and
lowered taxes on  consumer goods  to boost domestic spending. A
report yesterday showed China’s services industries expanded at
the fastest pace in four months, the latest sign that growth may
be picking up in Brazil’s top trading partner. U.S. lawmakers on
Jan. 1 passed a bill averting spending cuts and tax increases
scheduled to take effect this year.  Petrobras Gains  State-controlled  oil company   Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PBR) , known
as Petrobras, contributed the most to Bovespa’s advance today,
rising 3.6 percent to 20.40 reais after confirming a “high
potential of oil flow” in a Carcara well and declaring that two
areas in Brazil’s Campos Basin have traces of good-quality oil.  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA , the oil company
controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , rose 2.9
percent to 4.90 reais after earlier falling as much as 3.4
percent as crude slipped on concern the U.S. budget deal won’t
reduce that country’s deficit fast enough.  Vale Slides  The ratio of  U.S. government debt  to gross domestic product
will probably peak at about 80 percent in 2014 and may stay at
about that level for the rest of the decade, Moody’s Investors
Service said yesterday. The ratings company assigns the U.S. its
top Aaa ranking with a negative outlook.  Vale SA (VALE) , the world’s biggest iron ore mining company,
retreated 1.2 percent to 42.09 reais today as the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials decreased 0.3 percent.  The Bovespa’s 21 percent gain since June 5 compares with a
27 percent advance among stocks on India’s Sensex Index since
its 2012 low on Jan. 2. Russia’s Micex index is up 18 percent
from a May 23 low, and China’s Shanghai Composite has risen 16
percent from its low on Dec. 3.  The Bovespa  climbed  7.4 percent in 2012, trailing an 11
percent gain by the MSCI BRIC Index of shares in Brazil, Russia,
India and China. The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  rose 13
percent last year.  Trading volume was 7.26 billion reais in stocks in Sao
Paulo today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  