-- BP Spill Defendant Transocean Said to Settle Claims
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k ,   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-01-03T17:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/bp-spill-defendant-transocean-said-to-settle-claims.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  will settle all
federal claims over the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil rig explosion
and spill in the Gulf of Mexico for between $1.4 billion and
$1.5 billion, according to two people familiar with the matter.  The agreement, which will include a plea to criminal
charges, will be announced today, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the matter isn’t public. The plea won’t
include any manslaughter charges related to the 11 deaths in the
explosion, said one of the people.  The company will pay $1 billion to resolve civil claims and
$400 million in criminal penalties, one of the people said. Both
declined to be identified because the matter isn’t public.
Transocean had earlier disclosed that the company was discussing
a $1.5 billion settlement with the U.S.  The blowout and explosion aboard Transocean’s drilling rig
killed 11 workers and sent millions of barrels of crude leaking
into the gulf. The accident prompted hundreds of lawsuits
against  BP Plc (BP/) , owner of the well, and  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which
provided cementing services.  BP had previously agreed to pay $4 billion to the U.S.
Justice Department to resolve charges connected to the spill and
$525 million to settle the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s claim that the company misled investors about the
rate of oil flowing into the gulf.  The case is In re  Oil Spill  by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in  New Orleans , at  allenmct@gmail.com ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at   pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  and;
Steven Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  