-- Budget Deal Lets More Savers Switch to Roth 401(k): Taxes
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-01-03T16:47:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/budget-deal-lets-more-savers-switch-to-roth-401-k-taxes.html
U.S. workers willing to take  tax  pain
today in exchange for tax-free gains on earnings in their 401(k)
retirement accounts later have a new avenue to do so.  The budget legislation passed by Congress Jan. 1 lets
401(k) participants convert any money in their tax-deferred
accounts to a so-called Roth 401(k) account, if their employer
offers one, which can be withdrawn tax-free in retirement. The
change is projected to raise $12.2 billion in revenue over 10
years, according to the Joint Committee on Taxation, and help
defray the cost of delaying spending cuts that had been set to
take effect this month.  “This dramatically expands the number of participants who
can use this provision,” said Bob Holcomb, executive director
of legislative and regulatory affairs for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
retirement plan services. “It will allow any amount to be
transferred.”  The conversion opportunity can benefit people with
significant balances, the up-front money to pay taxes now with
funds outside their retirement account and years of tax-free
earnings ahead of them or their heirs. Conversions to Roth
401(k)s had been limited to certain funds and to plans that
allowed the switches. The law opens the opportunity to more
workers who hold $5 trillion in employer-sponsored defined
contribution plans including 401(k)s.  Deferring Taxes  Contributions to a traditional 401(k) account are tax-
deferred, with taxes paid at ordinary income rates when the
money is withdrawn in retirement. When savers put money into a
Roth 401(k) account, they pay taxes on the money upfront in
exchange for tax-free withdrawals later.  The new conversion opportunity may help wealthy investors
who want to leave their retirement accounts to heirs and younger
savers, said John Olivieri, a partner in the private clients
group at New York-based law firm White & Case LLP.  “This is really a huge benefit to heirs,” Olivieri said.
“Basically you can pay tax now for your kids.”  Younger investors may wish to convert a portion or all of
their account if it’s a small part of their net worth because
they have more time to make back the money they lose in paying
the tax upfront, Olivieri said.  Fund Transfers  A provision in a 2010 law allowed some 401(k) participants
to convert part of the money in their plan to a Roth 401(k)
account, with restrictions: Their employer had to offer a Roth
401(k) and allow conversions. Funds transferred were limited to
money eligible for distribution, such as that held by savers age
59½ and older, and some employer contributions, said Alison
Borland, vice president of retirement solutions and strategies
at Lincolnshire, Illinois-based Aon Hewitt. It is a unit of  Aon
Plc (AON)  that administers 401(k) plans for about 5 million workers.  “Now they are saying you can convert any money,” said Ed Ferrigno, vice president of  Washington  affairs for the Plan
Sponsor Council of America. The Chicago-based group represents
about 1,000 employers that sponsor plans and lobbied for the
2010 law change as another way for participants to diversify
their savings, Ferrigno said. The budget legislation may
encourage more employers to offer Roth 401(k) accounts, even as
questions remain about the logistics, he said.  Plan Guidance  “This isn’t going to happen overnight,” he said.
“Treasury is going to have to issue guidance. Plans are going
to have to make amendments.”  The new provision is more than seven years old and was
recently updated and drafted into legislative form when
lawmakers went looking to fill a revenue shortfall in the bill,
said a Senate aide, who spoke on condition of anonymity to
discuss the idea’s development.  Americans held $5 trillion in defined contribution plans as
of Sept. 30, including $3.5 trillion in 401(k)s, according to
the Washington-based  Investment Company Institute .  About 12 percent of plan sponsors offer and allow
conversions to Roth 401(k) accounts and the majority of them
don’t charge a fee for it, Borland said. Participants should ask
whether there’s a cost for such a transaction, she said.  A taxpayer in the top income bracket with a 401(k) worth $1
million may pay 39.6 percent, or $396,000, in federal taxes this
year when converting the entire account into a Roth 401(k). The
legislation allows all or a portion of funds in an account to be
converted to a Roth within the same plan, Olivieri said. Once
the taxes are paid upfront, all of the additional earnings and
appreciation in the account are tax-free, he said.  Tax Cut  The new opportunity gives a  tax cut  to the wealthy and will
cost the government in the future, Robert Greenstein, founder
and president of the  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities 
 wrote  yesterday. The Washington-based center is a group favoring
policies that benefit low-income households.  “Every dollar of that $12 billion is revenue that the
federal Treasury would have collected in subsequent decades,”
Greenstein wrote in a post on the center’s website.  “The
resulting revenue loss in later decades will be substantially
greater than $12 billion -- probably several times that
amount.”  Congress has turned to Roth accounts before as a revenue
raiser.  Roth IRAs  The government lifted income restrictions on converting an
individual retirement account, or IRA, under a provision of a
2006 law that took effect in 2010. That’s when U.S. taxpayers
making more than $100,000 a year in adjusted income could start
making the transfers. There’s no limit on conversions if an
investor has multiple IRAs, nor a cap on the amount that can be
shifted.  When the Roth IRA conversion rules changed, Internal
Revenue Service regulations allowed taxpayers to choose whether
to pay all the tax in 2010, or split it between tax years 2011
and 2012. The legislation passed this week didn’t include a
similar specification on payment of taxes on conversions.  Fidelity Investments , the largest 401(k) plan provider, saw
more than 355,000 Roth IRA conversions from January 2010 to June
2012, according to Deborah Pont, a spokeswoman for the Boston-
based mutual-fund firm.  Vanguard Group Inc. saw 244,356 in conversions of
traditional IRAs to  Roth IRAs  to in 2010, a 91 percent increase
from 2009 before the income limits were lifted, according to
 Linda Wolohan , a spokeswoman for the  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-
based firm.  Backing Off  The scope of possible conversions may be smaller at the
start for 401(k) plans because only about half of employers in
2011 offered Roth accounts in their plans and most of those
didn’t allow conversions, according to Vanguard.  Fewer than 2 percent of plans administered by Vanguard have
opted to allow Roth 401(k) conversions and about 500
participants have taken advantage of the move since the 2010
legislation, said Jean Young, senior research analyst at
Vanguard’s Center for Retirement Research.  “The thing to keep in mind is that when people do that
type of conversion they have to pay a tax,” Young said. “When
they realize they have to pay the taxes they tend to back off.”  A Roth conversion works best when an investor can pay the
taxes with funds outside the 401(k) so as not to deplete savings
in the account, said John Sweeney, executive vice president of
planning and advisory services at Fidelity.  Educate Savers  While the change is important for investors, Washington may
end up disappointed with the revenue it creates if policy
makers, investment managers, 401(k) plan providers and financial
advisers don’t educate savers.  “Unless there is a clear communication strategy, you may
not see that much change,” Fredrik Axsater, global head of
defined contribution for Boston-based  State Street Corp. (STT) ’s
investment management unit,  State Street Global Advisors .  Investors who are near or at retirement with a 401(k)
balance that is a large portion of their net worth that they
need to spend in their remaining years rather than transfer to
heirs shouldn’t make the conversion, Olivieri said.  “It will take a chunk of your other money and it will take
you awhile to earn it back,” he said.  People also should be aware that there’s a chance, however
slim, the government will lower taxes in the future. They should
consider whether they plan to retire in a place without state
income taxes, which would reduce their total liability, Olivieri
said.  “A lot of blind faith goes into this that if you pay the
tax now you don’t ever pay later,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  