-- Buffett Like Icahn Reaping Tank Car Boom From Shale Oil
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-01-03T21:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/buffett-like-icahn-reaping-tank-car-boom-from-shale-oil.html
Warren Buffett  and  Carl Icahn  are
reaping the benefits of surging demand for railroad tank cars to
haul shale oil from beyond the reach of existing pipelines.  Buffett’s  Union Tank Car Co.  is working at full capacity
and Icahn’s  American Railcar Industries Inc. (ARII)  has a backlog
through 2014.  Trinity Industries Inc. (TRN) , the biggest railcar
producer, began converting wind-tower factories last year to
help meet demand for train cars that can transport the petroleum
product.  All three are getting a boost from a shale-oil boom that’s
poised to make the U.S. the world’s largest crude producer by
2020. Rail carloads of crude tripled last year to more than
200,000, and demand for tanks designed for it soared, helping
both Trinity and American Railcar outstrip the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  “People who want to ship oil can’t get them,” Toby Kolstad, president of the consultant firm  Rail Theory Forecasts
LLC  said, referring to railcars. “They’re desperate to get
anything to move crude oil.”  The shortage is exacerbated by makers who are keeping many
of the tank cars they produce to supply their own leasing
businesses, where rates in some cases have more than quadrupled
to $2,500 a month. The manufacturers also are wary of boosting
production too much and getting caught with unsold cars as they
did in an earlier coal boom.  Costly Pipelines  Rail shipping has become the method of choice at new
production sites because obtaining permits and rights-of-way can
slow pipeline construction and make it more costly, said Brad Delco, an analyst with Stephens Inc. in  Little Rock ,  Arkansas .  Oil produced from hydraulic fracturing allowed the U.S. to
expand oil production last year by the most since the first
commercial well was drilled in 1859. Domestic output grew to the
highest level in 15 years, while carloads carried by  Union
Pacific Corp. (UNP) , the country’s biggest railroad, surged to 140,000
last year from 2,400 in 2010.  “It still feels very much like an emerging market,” said
Beth Whited, vice president and general manager of Union
Pacific’s chemicals business. “There are large numbers of
requests coming in really every week to our crude oil team
here” asking for service to new locations.  The resulting jump in railcar demand helped drive gains of
20 percent at Trinity and 34 percent at American Railcar in the
year through today. Both topped a 14 percent increase in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Failed Bid  Greenbrier Cos. (GBX) , which makes railcars and equipment as well
as freight barges, gained 15 percent since Nov. 12, the day
before American Railcar-owner Icahn disclosed a 9.99 percent
stake and began takeover talks. Those negotiations fell apart in
December.  A combination of American Railcar and Greenbrier would have
created the largest railcar producer in the U.S., surpassing
Trinity, which now accounts for about 31 percent of U.S.
deliveries.  Railcars and leasing comprised more than half of Trinity’s
$3.8 billion of sales for the 12 months ending in September, the
company said in a  November presentation . The Dallas-based
manufacturer began converting factories that made towers for
 wind turbines  to tank-car plants in the third quarter,
executives said in an Oct. 25 conference call.  Order Backlog  “Customers are very anxious to see us increase capacity,
and those who have driving needs for that have been willing to
pay a premium,” Stephen Menzies, group president for Trinity’s
rail and railcar leasing units, said on the conference call. The
company projected full-year earnings would climb as much as 91
percent, and analysts estimate revenue may increase as much as
28 percent to  $3.94 billion .  American Railcar said third-quarter orders for tank cars
reached 8,800 industrywide, almost double deliveries. The
industry’s backlog was about 46,700 at the end of that period,
making up more than 75 percent of its total unfilled orders.  The company’s own backlog of 7,630 total railcars was the
largest since 2008’s second quarter and its production schedule
included tank orders through the first three months of 2014,
Chief Executive Officer James Cowan said on an Oct. 25
conference call. Icahn holds a stake of about  56 percent  in the
St. Charles, Missouri-based company.  Lease Fleets  “The investment thesis of oil by rail will be something
that will continue for many years because of the fact that
infrastructure doesn’t exist in many of these newer areas,”
 Eric Marshall , the director of research at Dallas-based Hodges
Capital Management Inc., said in a telephone interview. He helps
oversee $750 million of assets, including Trinity shares.  Many tank-car makers have been cautious about adding
capacity because they don’t want rates to fall at their leasing
businesses, Arthur Hatfield, a Memphis, Tennessee-based analyst
with Raymond James & Associates, said in a telephone interview.  “All these companies have a lot of lease fleets that have
a lot of value attached to them,” he said. “They don’t want to
add a lot of capacity, flood the market with cars and then have
those cars sit in the marketplace trying to get leased.”  Short-term lease rates have jumped as high as $2,500 a
month, more than four times the normal rate, said Kolstad, of
 Portland , Oregon-based Rail Theory. To limit risk if the boom
doesn’t last, leasing companies are seeking five-year paybacks
on cars instead of 30 years, he said in a telephone interview.  ‘Cyclical’ Industry  “Leasing rates aren’t based on traditional models right
now,” Kolstad said. “They’re basically looking at the
probability of a pipeline and a short-term phenomenon. Nobody is
taking a risk beyond five or six years.”  Union Tank Car, a unit of Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) 
that once formed part of  John D. Rockefeller ’s Standard Oil, is
keeping all the cars it produces and leasing them, rather than
selling to third parties, said Bruce Winslow, a company
spokesman.  The company’s two plants near Houston and in Alexandria,
 Louisiana , are running at full capacity, which is about 6,240 a
year combined, he said. Union Tank Car, whose parent company
also profits from shale-oil shipments through its Burlington
Northern  Santa Fe  railroad, isn’t planning to expand production,
Winslow said.  “We see the industry as very cyclical,” he said. “Within
the memory of most any tank-car guy, he can say, ‘I remember
when we didn’t know where to park them all.’ ”  Excess Production  Railcar makers don’t want to risk repeating the boom in
production of coal cars, which are now gathering dust as energy
producers fuel operations with cheaper natural gas, also found
in shale formations. Coal carloads at the largest North American
rail carriers fell 8.6 percent to 4.89 million in the first
three months of 2012.  Tank cars probably won’t suffer the market downturn that
coal cars now face any time soon,  Salvatore Vitale, a New York-
based analyst with Sterne Agee & Leach, Inc., said in a
telephone interview.  “There’s so much continued demand for crude by rail coming
out of the shale plays, especially the Bakken, we’re years away
from” excess production, Vitale said.  Indeed, demand for crude-carrying cars may surpass an
ethanol-driven surge for tank cars from 2005 to 2007, Kolstad
said. Deliveries peaked at 5,100 cars per quarter during that
period, about double normal demand, he said.  In the third quarter of 2012, deliveries reached about
4,700, he said. Because ethanol production was capped at 10
percent of gasoline consumption, manufacturers could calculate
precisely the demand for tank cars. The opposite is true for
shale-oil production, he said.  “How far does this go?” he asked. “That’s the big
question.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  