-- Builders Lead Philippine Stock Gains on Interest-Rate Outlook
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-01-03T04:26:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/builders-lead-philippine-stock-gains-on-interest-rate-outlook.html
Philippine property stocks rose to a
record, leading gains in the nation’s  equities , as a
BusinessMirror report fueled speculation the government will
keep borrowing costs low.  Megaworld Corp. (MEG) , a builder of residential and office
towers, climbed 2.9 percent to 2.87 pesos as of 12:22 p.m. in
Manila, heading for the highest close since Feb. 4, 2008. The
Philippine Stock Exchange Property Index rose 1.8 percent to a
record, beating a 1.6 percent gain in the broader  Philippine
Stock Exchange Index. (PCOMP)   There are no indicators showing the property industry is
heating up, BusinessMirror reported today, citing Bangko Sentral
ng Pilipinas Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo. Guinigundo can’t
be reached in his office for comment. The central bank approved
on Nov. 28 measures to broaden monitoring of banks’ real-estate
financing to protect against excesses that may lead to a
financial crisis.  “The absence of a property bubble gives further support to
the outlook that the central bank can keep the low interest-rate
environment,”  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market strategist at
Manila-based  BDO Unibank Inc. (BDO) , said by phone today. “Signs of a
bubble could prompt the central bank to siphon liquidity and one
way of doing that is by increasing interest rates.”  The central bank cut its benchmark rate four times in 2012
to a record low 3.5 percent, to boost growth and has said it has
room for more reductions.  Ayala Corp. (AC) , owner of the nation’s biggest developer,
gained 3.4 percent to 542 pesos, heading for a record close
based on prices going back to January 1987.  Ayala Land Inc. (ALI) , its
property unit, rose 1.1 percent to 26.95 pesos.  Ayala Corp., which trades at 22.7 times estimated profit,
is a cheaper alternative than  Ayala Land  as a Philippine
property play, Ravelas said. Ayala Land is  valued  at 34.7 times,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  SM Prime Holdings Inc. (SMPH)  and Sta. Lucia Land Inc. rose at
least 3 percent, the biggest advances in the Philippine property
index.  Century Properties Group Inc. (CPG) , a developer of high-end
residential towers, gained 2.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  