-- Bumi Resources Swings to Loss Amid Rothschild, Bakrie Battle
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i
-- 2013-01-03T12:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/bumi-resources-swings-to-632-million-loss-on-derivative-trades.html
PT Bumi Resources (BUMI) , facing probes into
its finances amid a dispute between  Nathaniel Rothschild  and
 Indonesia ’s Bakrie Group, swung to a loss on derivatives charges
the company said resulted mainly from accounting-policy changes.  Indonesia’s biggest producer of power-station coal reported
a net  loss  of $632.5 million in the nine months to Sept. 30
after a $422 million charge on “derivatives transactions,”
Jakarta-based Bumi Resources said yesterday in a statement. The
result compares with a profit of $175.5 million a year earlier.  Mazars, auditor of the results, was unable to get hold of
audited financial accounts for Bumi associate PT Newmont Nusa
Tenggara supporting a Bumi investment stated at $1.04 billion.
The auditor also said in its report accompanying the earnings
that it wasn’t able to obtain audited financial statements from
some subsidiaries such as Bumi Mauritania SA and Tamagot Bumi SA.  “The losses are ‘book losses,’ largely necessitated by
accounting policy adjustments,” Bumi Director Dileep Srivastava
said in an e-mailed response to questions. “As we de-leverage
and the market improves, they would convert back to gain.”  The derivatives and currency charges reverse earlier gains
on hedging linked to the company’s share price and related to a
loan, he said. Bumi Resources reported a $125 million gain on
derivatives deals during the first nine months of 2011.  Book Losses  “To keep hiding behind derivative transactions time and
time again fools nobody,” Rothschild said by e-mail, responding
to the comments. “Why should a simple coal mining company
experience such swings in profitability due to ‘book losses’?”  Bumi Plc (BUMI) , founded by Rothschild and the Bakrie family in a
$3 billion deal turned sour, is already investigating what it
called “potential financial and other irregularities” at Bumi
Resources. Bumi Resources said Nov. 9 a Jakarta court approved a
separate independent probe into accounts dating from 2010.  Statements for PT Newmont Nusa Tenggara were “reviewed”
by other independent accountants, meaning Mazars wasn’t able to
confirm the carrying value of the investment and equity in the
net income or gauge any necessary adjustments, the auditor said.  Excluding any possible adjustments over the associate and
subsidies, Bumi Resources’ nine-month statements present its
financial position fairly, Mazars said in its report.  “Mazars needs to take a long hard look at the carrying
value of all assets on the Bumi Resources balance sheet starting
with” Bumi Mauritania, Rothschild wrote in his e-mail.  Mazars officials based in  London  weren’t immediately able
to comment before speaking with their colleagues in Indonesia.  Bumi Split  Bumi Plc is seeking to separate itself from Bumi Resources
and the Bakries, a family-owned empire with investments from
 palm oil  to property, the company said last month.  The London-listed company, the largest shareholder in Bumi
Resources, declined by 0.6 percent to 273.5 pence by 12:30 p.m.
in the city, adding to the share’s 69 percent slump last year.
Bumi Resources has slumped 73 percent in the past year and
closed down 4.8 percent at 590 rupiah in Jakarta.  UBS AG kept its sell rating on Bumi Resources on concern
over the company’s ability to service debt in the near-to-medium
term, potentially weak earnings in the fourth quarter and news
reports of the potential “financial irregularities.”  Excluding its derivatives charge, Bumi’s adjusted nine-
month loss of $210.4 million compared with UBS’s estimate for a
full-year loss of $166.7 million, according to analysts
including Andreas Bokkenheuser cited in a UBS report today.  Refinancing Question  “The inability to refinance at least some of the company’s
outstanding $4.5 billion debt significantly increases risks
around its ability to service its debt,” they wrote.  Bumi Resources sales in the nine months slipped 3.1 percent
to $2.77 billion as coal prices declined amid sluggish global
demand. Indonesia’s HBA monthly benchmark coal price declined
23.5 percent in the nine months to $86.20 a metric ton, while
weekly prices at  Australia ’s Newcastle port, a benchmark for
 Asia , dropped 24.3 percent to $84.25 a ton.  Bumi expects coal output to rise 10 percent this year from
a target of 75 million tons in 2012, Srivastava said Nov. 28.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  