-- Buried Treasure Hidden From Soviets Disputed in Berlin
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-01-03T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/buried-treasure-hidden-from-soviets-disputed-in-berlin.html
A Berlin court will tomorrow examine
who is the rightful owner of a 400-year-old gilded chain that
lay buried in an East German graveyard to conceal it from Soviet
authorities and was dug up by stealth 20 years later.  Borghild Niemann, together with her father Robert
Haeussler, crept into the graveyard at dusk to recover the
hidden chain and smuggled it back into  West Germany  in 1965. She
says the treasure should belong to a business association in the
Baltic port of Wismar to which her father later donated it.  The city government of Wismar filed suit against her,
arguing that under Soviet military law the chain should have
been handed in to the occupiers and demanding it be transferred
to public ownership, court documents show.  “This is politically surprising,” said Ulf Bischof of
 Bischof & Paetow Rechtsanwaelte  in Berlin, the lawyer
representing Niemann at tomorrow’s hearing at the Berlin
 regional court . “Our client is naturally annoyed that she has
been invited to appear in court, as though she and her late
father had stolen the chain from the city -- which, from a legal
perspective, never had anything to do with it.”  The gold-plated silver chain, called the Papagoyenkette
because of its parrot pendant, was the insignia of a merchants’
guild founded in the Middle Ages in the Hanseatic League port of
Wismar. Its value is primarily symbolic and historic, Bischof
said, although he estimated it would fetch more than 10,000
euros ($13,250) if sold commercially.  Shooting Contest  Crafted by a local goldsmith in the early 17th century, the
chain was awarded to the winner of a shooting competition where
the targets were wooden parrots. The victor’s privileges also
included an opulent house in Wismar and the right to brew beer
for a year.  The Kaufmanns-Compagnie Wismar guild is known to have
existed at least as early as 1379. Its traditions date back to a
time when citizens were responsible for defending their city,
and skills such as shooting could be a question of survival.  The membership initially comprised Wismar brewers whose
beer was exported to England, Holland and  France . In the 17th
century, the focus of its membership switched to merchants, and
from 1736, all the Baltic port’s merchants were obliged to join.  The Kaufmanns-Compagnie survived until 1945, when the
Soviet military authorities ordered its dissolution and
expropriation. The parrot chain was saved from confiscation by a
guild member who buried it in his family grave, sealed in a tin,
in 1945, according to court documents obtained by  Bloomberg
News .  Clandestine Excavation  Most guild members, having served in World War II, escaped
Soviet rule by fleeing to West Germany. The chain remained
buried until 1965. With the permission of the widow of the guild
member who had hidden it, Haeussler made a clandestine trip
across the border with his then 18-year-old daughter to dig up
the chain, the court documents show. They worked by nightfall,
in fear of being caught by the East German authorities.  Niemann declined to be interviewed before the Jan. 4 court
hearing. In an interview in the Ostsee-Zeitung regional
newspaper in 2008, she recalled driving back across into West
Germany with the chain under her cardigan while her father
carried the parrot on his keyring, stuffed in his pocket, out of
view of the border guards.  “Our client and her father acted without any desire for
personal gain and at great personal risk to protect the
Papagoyenkette and maintain the traditions of the merchants’
guild of Wismar,” Bischof said. Attempts by the city of Wismar
to paint Niemann and her father as grave-robbers are
“dishonorable,” he said.  Unresolved Issue  “There have been a lot of differing opinions over a long
period of time about whom this chain belongs to,” said Frank
Junge, a spokesman for the Wismar city government. Junge said
the federal government office responsible for unresolved
property issues determined in 2009 that it should be in the
ownership of the city.  “Ms. Niemann refused to give us our property back,” Junge
said. “Therefore we had no choice but to take the legal route.
For the Hanseatic city of Wismar, the Papagoyenkette is a piece
of city history. It should be accessible to the wider public in
our city museum.”  After the fall of the  Berlin Wall , Haeussler moved back to
Wismar. He tried to re-establish the merchants’ guild and failed
because of a shortage of surviving members. Haeussler continued
to dedicate his life to Wismar and in 2000 -- at the age of 88 -
- he was elected to the city council.  Business Association  In 2008, Haeussler donated the Papagoyenkette to the
 Wismarer Wirtschaftsgemeinschaft e.V.,  a local business
association, on condition that it should be worn on festive
occasions, should remain in Wismar forever and would revert to
the  city museum  if the association is ever dissolved.  When the city raised doubts about the legality of
Haeussler’s grave-digging operation, the Wismarer
Wirtschaftsgemeinschaft reversed the donation, handing the chain
back to his daughter after Haeussler’s death.  It’s a decision that Ines Raum, the current head of the
association, finds regrettable.  “It was my personal wish at the time that we loan it to
the city museum and use it for certain occasions,” Raum said by
telephone. “That would have been the best solution.”  Muse highlights include Norman Lebrecht on  music ,  Hephzibah
Anderson  on books and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 