-- Buzzfeed Raises $19M for Listicle Empire
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-01-03T15:35:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/buzzfeed-raises-19-3-million-in-funding.html
BuzzFeed Inc., the prolific online
publisher of quirky animal photos, 1990s retrospectives and
autocorrect mishaps, raised $19.3 million in funding from an
investor group led by venture firm  New Enterprise Associates .  Previous investors such as  Lerer Ventures , Hearst Corp. and
 Softbank Corp. (9984)  participated in the funding round, the New York-
based startup said today in a  statement , bringing its total
money raised to $46 million. Michael and Kass Lazerow, co-
founders of Buddy Media Inc., also invested.  The company relies on social networks such as Facebook and
Twitter to spread its posts, videos and list-based articles, or
“listicles,” such as “ Twelve New Year’s Resolutions Inspired
By Justin Bieber .” Revenue increased more than threefold in
2012, fueled by social advertising that BuzzFeed creates for
clients internally, the company said.  “We see a big opportunity to be the leading social
publisher,” Chief Operating Officer Jon Steinberg said in an
interview. “That’s how people are increasingly getting the vast
majority of their media.”  The company is planning to expand its staff of 180
employees with new offices in  Los Angeles  and Europe -- likely
in London, he said. BuzzFeed also will almost double the size of
its team creating social advertisements to 40 people. About 30
percent of revenue comes from ads it runs on websites other than
BuzzFeed, Steinberg said. He declined to give specifics on the
company’s financial results or valuation.  ‘Angriest Babies’  The company also branched out last year into creating
original videos, including clips such as “The Angriest Babies
in the Whole World.”  BuzzFeed has 70 reporters and editors, who are increasingly
delving into weightier topics such as political coverage.
BuzzFeed hired  Ben Smith , a senior political writer for the
Politico site, to be its  editor-in-chief  in December 2011.  Jonah Peretti, BuzzFeed’s founder and chief executive
officer, co-founded the  Huffington Post  with  Arianna Huffington 
in 2005. Huffington Post had raised about $35 million in  venture
capital  before it was acquired by AOL Inc. for $315 million in
2011. Peretti  started BuzzFeed in 2006  while still at the
Huffington Post, aiming to create a site filled with viral
content. In those days, most of the content was delivered via
algorithms, not curated by humans.  Buddy Media, the company started by two of BuzzFeed’s new
investors, was sold to Salesforce.com Inc. for about $689
million last year. Its offers services that help customers sell
advertising through social networks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  