-- California Democrats’ Statehouse Powers Tempt Lawmakers
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-01-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/california-democrats-statehouse-powers-tempt-lawmakers.html
When  California ’s Legislature
convenes with newly elected members next week, Democrats will
hold a two-thirds majority, giving them the power to raise
taxes, boost spending and ask voters to change the constitution.  Not since 1933 has one party held a so-called supermajority
in both chambers. That power, immune to both Republican
opposition and Democratic Governor Jerry Brown’s veto, may last
only until April, as certain lawmakers seek other offices.  The historic opportunity has Democrats dusting off their
most ambitious ideas, previously impossible to pursue because of
firm Republican barriers, such as altering Proposition 13, the
1978 initiative that capped property levies and spurred a
national anti-tax revolt.  “Prop. 13 is not the untouchable third-rail anymore,”
said Assemblyman Tom Ammiano, a Democrat from San Francisco.
“It’s more like the bad guy with the mustache who has tied
California to the rails with the fiscal train wreck coming.”  Kris Vosburgh, executive director of the Howard Jarvis
Taxpayers Association, named for the author of Proposition 13,
declined to comment on the potential for changes.  The November election gave Democrats 29 of 40 seats in the
 Senate  and  55  of 80 in the Assembly. Even with two Democratic
senators giving up their seats to join Congress, that still
leaves their party with enough votes to reach two-thirds.  Temporary Loss  In the  Assembly , two Democrats are seeking to win those
vacated Senate seats in special elections set for April. If both
succeed, the party will be one vote short of a supermajority in
the lower house. A third Democrat may leave the Assembly to run
for the Los Angeles City Council later this year, requiring
another special election to fill that seat. That means
Democrats, even if they win the races, may not have a chance to
summon up the two-thirds majority again until early next year.  “I’m not going to let the little intricacies of the 2013
calendar, where there’s going to be vacancies, affect our
thinking and decision-making,” Senate President Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg, a Democrat from  Sacramento , told reporters Dec. 3.
“It’s better to do it right rather than to hurry because
someone is vacating one house to serve in another house or
another body.”  Until 2010, California’s state budget required approval by
two-thirds of lawmakers, so Democrats who controlled both
chambers had to negotiate for Republican votes. That led to
compromises that papered over deficits exceeding $200 billion in
the past decade.  Two years ago, voters lowered the budget-passage threshold
to a simple majority. Tax and revenue increases, however, still
need a supermajority for approval.  Restraint Promised  Brown has promised restraint as he seeks to repair the
state’s battered finances and take advantage of higher income-
and sales-taxes he persuaded voters to approve in November.  While the governor and lawmakers will need to fill a $1.9
billion deficit through June 2014, that’s down from $13 billion
estimated a year ago, according to the nonpartisan  Legislative
Analyst’s Office . The state may have a surplus of $1 billion by
fiscal 2015 and $9 billion by 2018, the analyst’s office said.  “The voters have trusted their elected representatives,
even trusted me to some extent, and now we’ve got to meet that
trust,” Brown told reporters at a statehouse news briefing the
morning after the Nov. 6 election. “We’ve got to make sure over
the next few years that we pay our bills, we invest in the right
programs and that we don’t go on any spending binges.”  Still, Brown too has indicated he wants to begin taking on
some of the state’s other pressing problems if finances continue
to improve.  Water Project  In July, he unveiled plans for a $14 billion tunnel system
to divert abundant Northern California water to thirsty Southern
California cities, and the farms that grow half of America’s
fresh produce. Redirecting the water has been a long-simmering
dispute between northern Californians and those in the more
populous south, much of which is semidesert. Voters rejected a
similar plan to shift water from the Sacramento-San Joaquin
River Delta in 1982.  The governor has also championed a $68 billion high-speed
rail line to link San Francisco and Los Angeles. Part of the
project would be financed by $10 billion in state bonds.
Lawmakers in July agreed to begin spending $4.75 billion of that
money right away.  Democrats also have said they want to rewrite an $11
billion water-bond proposition voters will decide in 2014. The
debt would finance an overhaul of aging system that depends on
aqueducts, reservoirs and pipelines, some almost 100 years old.  Dam Funding  When Republicans were needed to help put the bond proposal
on the ballot in 2009, they insisted that it include financing
for dams. Now Democrats, who oppose new dams, can change the
proposal without Republican support.  Allan Hoffenblum, a former Republican consultant and
publisher of the California Target Book of political analysis,
said some Democrats who won the seats in November that gave them
a supermajority are centrists who are less likely to vote for
higher taxes, which could temper party ambitions, particularly
on fiscal issues.  “It was more of a psychological victory rather than an
ideological victory,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  