-- Carlyle Said to Seek $2.9 Billion in Loans for DuPont Unit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 2013-01-03T21:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/carlyle-said-to-seek-2-9-billion-in-loans-for-dupont-unit-1-.html
Carlyle Group  LP, the world’s second-
largest private equity firm, is seeking $2.9 billion of loans
backing its purchase of  DuPont Co. (DD) ’s auto-paint unit, according
to a person with knowledge of the transaction.  The financing, which is being arranged for DuPont
Performance Coatings Inc., will include a $2.3 billion seven-
year term loan, a $200 million seven-year term portion
denominated in Euros and a $400 million revolving line of credit
that will mature in five years, said the person, who asked not
to be identified because the information is private.  The deal is poised to be the largest buyout financing to be
raised in the U.S. since Kinetic Concepts Inc. obtained a $2.45
billion loan in November 2011 for its purchase by Apax Partners
Inc., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. More than $637
billion of loans were obtained by speculative-grade rated
companies in the U.S. in 2012, surpassing levels from the
previous year by about 8 percent.  Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG, Credit
Suisse Group AG, Morgan Stanley, UBS AG, Jefferies Group Inc.
and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. are arranging the debt, the
person said. The banks will meet with lenders Jan. 8 at 10:30
a.m. in  New York  and Jan. 9 at 12:30 p.m. in  London .  Leverage, or debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, will be 5.6 times total, said the
person. Funds under the the revolving  credit line  can be
obtained in more than one currency, the person said.  Carlyle Group is acquiring the business from Wilmington,
Delaware-based DuPont for $4.9 billion with the transaction
expected to close during the first quarter, according to an Aug.
30 company statement.  Randall Whitestone, a spokesman for Carlyle Group, and
 Michael Hanretta , a spokesman for DuPont, declined to comment.
Blackstone Group LP is the world’s largest private-equity firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in New York at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  