-- Cemex Latam Gains Most Since IPO on Colcap Bet: Bogota Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2013-01-03T19:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/cemex-latam-gains-most-since-ipo-on-colcap-bet-bogota-mover.html
Cemex Latam Holdings SA (CLH) , a cement
maker with operations in Central and South America, gained the
most since its initial public offering on speculation the shares
may be added to the  Colcap index  of Colombian stocks.  Cemex Latam gained 4.3 percent to 12,100 pesos as of 1:19
p.m. in Bogota. It was the biggest increase since Monterrey,
Mexico-based parent Cemex SAB sold shares in Cemex Latam in
November. The Colcap, which includes about 20 stocks determined
by the Colombian stock exchange, rose 0.5 percent.  Cemex Latam, based in Bogota, may be added to the Colcap in
the next re-weighting, attracting flows from funds that track
the index, the brokerage firm Correval SA wrote today in a
report.  Empresa de Energia de Bogota SA (EEB) , which also may be added
to the index according to Correval,  gained  4.2 percent, the most
in four months.  The next re-weighting of the  Colcap index  will be after the
market close on Jan. 31, according to a statement last month
from the stock exchange. The stocks are weighted based on their
“adjusted market cap value,” according to the exchange. A call
to the exchange seeking comment on possible additions to the
index wasn’t immediately returned.  Cemex Latam Chief Executive Officer Carlos Jacks said he
would like the company to be included in the Colcap, according
to a statement e-mailed today by a spokesman, Jorge Perez.
Inclusion in the index would bring greater liquidity and benefit
shareholders, Jacks said in the statement.  A spokesman for Bogota-based EEB, Juan Felipe Gonzalez,
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  