-- Central African Republic Leader Fires Son After Rebel Threat
-- B y   C r i s p i n   D e m b a s s a - K e t t e   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-01-03T09:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/central-african-republic-president-fires-son-after-rebel-advance.html
Central African Republic’s President
Francois Bozize fired his son from the position of defense
minister and assumed the role himself as rebel fighters
threatened Bangui, the nation’s capital.  Bozize also fired army chief Guillaume Lapo, according to
four presidential decrees read out on state broadcaster Radio
Centrafrique yesterday.  The leader, who won power through a 2003 coup, on Dec. 31
called the army “incompetent and undisciplined” after being
overcome by the northern insurgents, sometimes without a fight.  “If it were disciplined and properly fulfilled its
mission, we would not be in this situation,” Bozize said in a
speech broadcast on Radio Centrafrique.  The so-called Seleka militia, who say Bozize hasn’t honored
the terms of a 2008 peace deal, has been moving toward Bangui
since beginning an offensive on Dec. 10. The rebels paused their
advance and are prepared to negotiate with the government,
Interior Minister Josue Binua said yesterday.  Bozize has asked the rebels to disarm and allow him to
serve out his term, while offering to create a government of
national unity.  A deterioration of the military situation may “plunge the
Central African Republic into a protracted cycle of violence and
adversely affect regional security and stability,” Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, the chairwoman of the African Union Commission,
said in an e-mailed statement today.  Gabon Support  The nation has been dogged by violence since its
independence from  France  in 1960, with at least four armed
battles for Bangui taking place from 1996 to 2003, when Bozize
toppled his predecessor Ange-Felix Patasse, whom he previously
served as army chief.  Gabon sent 120 soldiers to the Central African Republic on
Jan. 1 to provide operational support for a peace mission under
the mandate of the Economic Community of Central African States.
France has also sent 150 troops, adding to the 250 it already
had in the country, to support the mission and to protect the
1,200 French citizens in the country.  The country has a gross domestic product of about $3.6
billion and earns most of its foreign currency from timber and
diamond exports, according to the CIA Factbook.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crispin Dembassa in Abuja at 
 cdembassa@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  