-- Chavez Cancer Imperils $7 Billion Caribbean Oil Funding
-- B y   A n a t o l y   K u r m a n a e v
-- 2013-01-03T15:57:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/chavez-cancer-imperils-7-billion-caribbean-oil-funding-energy.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez ’s
battle with cancer threatens $7 billion of subsidized oil
exports that help prop up Cuba’s economy and contain inflation
in Caribbean nations from  Jamaica  to the Bahamas.  Chavez, hospitalized in  Havana  after a fourth operation,
sent Cuba $3.6 billion of oil in 2011 through the Petrocaribe
program that serves 70 million people across Central America and
the Caribbean. Cuba failed to make discoveries in the first
offshore drilling effort since 2004 as Repsol SA, Petroliam
Nasional Bhd. and  Petroleos de Venezuela  SA reported dry wells.  While Chavez’s avowed “political father”  Fidel Castro 
used guns and medicine to spread his socialist revolution
abroad, the Venezuelan leader relies on the  world’s biggest oil
reserves . If Chavez’s successor ends the funding, Caribbean
economies still struggling to bolster tourism after the 2008
financial crisis would face further budgetary strains.  “Everyone loves Chavez here,” Salvador Rivas, head of
unconventional energy at the  Dominican Republic  Trade and
Industry Ministry, said by telephone Dec. 21. “We are trying to
buy more and more Venezuelan oil because terms are very good.”  The 58-year-old former paratrooper, who suffered renewed
complications from a respiratory infection following surgery
last month, created Petrocaribe in 2005. The alliance’s members
can buy oil from state-owned Petroleos de  Venezuela , or PDVSA,
at market prices, paying as little as 5 percent upfront and the
remainder over 25 years at 1 percent interest rate.  Bolivarian Revolution  U.S. aid to the entire Western Hemisphere represents about
a third of annual Petrocaribe sales, according to  Washington ’s
 Congressional Research Committee .  Membership spans the political spectrum with only Cuba and
 Nicaragua  governed by Chavez’s close allies. Oil producers
Trinidad and Tobago and  Barbados  were the only Caribbean
countries to reject PDVSA’s offer of preferential supplies.  Most Petrocaribe members have chosen to take the oil
without joining Chavez’s self-styled Bolivarian revolution,
which has included the expropriation of more than 1,000
companies since he took office in 1999.  Cheap financing has softened the blow of near $100-a-barrel
crude for the island region, which spends 13 percent of its
gross domestic product on oil imports, according to the  World
Bank . Oil futures fell 0.2 percent to $92.91 today after
rallying 2.6 percent in the past two sessions.  Best Prices  “President Chavez’s health is a very large concern for
us,” Dominican Republic Economy Minister Temistocles Montas
said in a Dec. 4 interview. “The state of his health could
affect the Petrocaribe agreement.”  Montas said Petrocaribe finances about 30,000 barrels per
day in the Dominican Republic, a U.S. political ally with a
quarter of the Caribbean population. PDVSA also has established
joint ventures in 11 member states, buying stakes in local
refineries, oil distributors and power plants.  Petrocaribe  is much more about economics than ideology,
Daniel Sachs, an analyst at London-based Control Risks, said by
telephone Dec. 21. “These countries are concerned with getting
the best possible price and not necessarily with socialist
solidarity,” he said.  In Nicaragua, governed by former guerilla Daniel Ortega,
Venezuela’s oil and aid program totaled  $609 million  in 2011
while Petrocaribe members Jamaica and the Lesser Antilles use
oil to generate about 95 percent of their electricity. The
leaders of Haiti, Nicaragua and  Panama  joined Fidel and his
brother  Raul Castro  in wishing Chavez a speedy recovery.  Revise Contracts  “Left to the marketplace these countries would find
themselves in a difficult economic situation,” Roger Tissot,
managing director of Tissot Associates, said yesterday by
telephone from Vernon, British Columbia. Eventually Petrocaribe
members probably would seek preferential arrangements with
regional exporters such as Mexico and  Colombia , he said.  Chavez’s latest surgery was followed by a respiratory
infection, leading Venezuelan officials to open the door to
delaying a Jan. 10 inauguration of his next term and feeding
speculation of new elections if he doesn’t return in time.  For now Petrocaribe contracts are secure. Chavez beat
Henrique Capriles in October’s presidential election by more
than 10 percentage points and Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  has
vowed to continue Chavez’s policies. Chavez said Dec. 8 that
voters should elect Maduro to protect his legacy if his illness
prevents him from remaining in office.  Even if the opposition wins a new election, Petrocaribe
won’t be disbanded entirely, said Ronald Balza, oil policy
coordinator at the Democratic Unity Table alliance. “We will
revise the contracts to make sure they are profitable rather
than political,” Balza said by phone yesterday.  ‘Very Serious’  PDVSA press officer Alfredo Carquez didn’t return calls or
e-mails seeking comment. Petrocaribe marketing manager Ramon
Herrera didn’t answer calls to his mobile telephone.  Chavez’s withdrawal may accelerate changes in Cuba, said
Peter Hakim, president emeritus of the Washington-based Inter-
American Dialogue policy group, said by telephone Dec. 18.  “If the Venezuelan funding dries up, Castro is going to
have to speed up the pace of reform, allowing the economy to
open up much sooner than he expected,” said Hakim.  ‘Special Period’  Venezuela accounted for 41 percent of Cuba’s foreign trade
in 2011, or $8 billion, four times more than  China , according to
the  Office of National Statistics  in Havana.  The island nation produces about  55,000 barrels  of oil a
day from Soviet-developed fields on the northern coast. Russia’s
OAO Zarubezhneft, the only foreign operator drilling in Cuba,
expects to release results in April.  Cubans are bracing for another “special period,” the name
given to the economic crisis that followed the collapse of the
 Soviet Union  in 1991, Hugo Luis Sanchez, a Cuban novelist and
commentator, said by telephone from Havana Dec. 18.  “Everyone in Cuba understands things will become very
serious if Chavez goes,” he said. “He has given us a measure
of stability for a time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anatoly Kurmanaev in Bogota at 
 akurmanaev1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  