-- Chemring Names Bowers CFO Amid Strategic Business Review
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-01-03T08:29:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/chemring-names-bowers-cfo-amid-strategic-business-review.html
Chemring Group Plc (CHG)  appointed Steve Bowers to become chief financial officer as the defense-
equipment maker reviews plans after cutting earnings forecasts
and failing to complete takeover talks with  Carlyle Group LP. (CG)   Chemring rose to a two-month high after saying that Bowers,
formerly CFO at Umeco Plc, will take over from acting finance
director Nigel Young on Jan. 7. The Fareham, England-based maker
of flares to protect military aircraft from missiles also named
 Jim Devine  as human resources director and member of the
executive committee.  Mark Papworth, who became Chemring chief executive officer
Nov. 5 following the departure of  David Price , is undertaking a
strategic review after private-equity firm Carlyle decided two
months ago against bidding for the manufacturer. The company,
which reduced earnings targets twice for the year through
October 2012, has promised to publish an initial turnaround plan
this month.  The appointment of Bowers “is another important step in
strengthening our executive management team, as we commit to
rebuilding operational and financial performance and delivering
improved returns for shareholders,” Chairman Peter Hickson said
in today’s statement.  Chemring  rose  as much as 5.2 percent to 250.7 pence, the
highest intraday price since Nov. 8, and was trading up 4.9
percent at 8:27 a.m. in  London . That pared the stock’s 12-month
decline to 39 percent.  Bowers, like CEO Papworth, joins Chemring with a background
in reshaping a business through acquisitions and sales of
underperforming units. “He was integrally involved in the
disposal process of Umeco’s supply-chain division,” Chemring
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  