-- Chilean Peso Rises to Two-Month High as Investors Cut Short Bets
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-01-03T15:35:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/chilean-peso-rises-to-two-month-high-as-investors-cut-short-bets.html
Chile ’s peso rallied to a two-month
high as foreign investors cut bets against the currency to the
lowest since February.  The peso climbed 0.3 percent to 473.05 per dollar at 12:30
p.m. in Santiago, the strongest level on a closing basis since
Oct. 18. It had the biggest gain among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Offshore investors reduced net bets against the peso in the
forwards market by $757 million to $4.2 billion on Dec. 28,
according to the data published today by the central bank. It
was the biggest drop in five weeks, The bets are down from $7.2
billion at the end of November.  Inflation in Chile has slowed , and traders are starting to
project increases in  interest rates . The so-called carry trade,
in which investors borrow in dollars and invest in pesos, is
driving the price moves, said Felipe Alarcon, an economist at
Banco de Credito & Inversiones in Santiago.  Local investors  in the forwards market cut their net long
peso positions to a two-month low of $14 billion on Dec. 28 from
$16.6 billion at the end of November. The local investors
category is dominated by pension funds that use long peso
positions to hedge the currency exposure in their offshore
investments. A long is a bet an asset may gain value.  Lower bets on the peso in the local market may indicate
that pension funds reduced investments in other currencies
toward the end of the year.  Traders in Chile’s swaps market projected yesterday a 0.25
percentage point rate increase in the benchmark overnight rate
to 5.25 percent in the next six months and a 0.50 percentage
point boost in 18 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  