-- China Defends Ban on Running Yellow Lights Amid Protests
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-03T08:21:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/china-defends-ban-on-running-yellow-lights-after-drivers-protest.html
China ’s  Ministry of Public Security 
defended new traffic rules that make running a yellow light
illegal, as state-run media and users of the nation’s online
social networks criticized the regulations.  The rules, which took effect Jan. 1, are aimed at reducing
accidents in major cities, and encourage safer and “more
civil” driving, the ministry said yesterday on its website.
Chinese authorities’ decision to change the traffic laws became
one of the most popular topics on Sina Corp.’s Weibo
microblogging service in the last 24 hours, its website showed.  In a commentary published today, the Youth Daily, run by
the Chinese Communist Party Youth League, said the rules are
“against science” and will scare drivers into slowing down,
which could make traffic worse.  The rule is impossible to observe because drivers won’t be
able to brake in time for a full stop, the newspaper said. It
said authorities should have elicited public opinion when
drafting the regulations. More than just a “scratch of the
head” is required to draft regulations, it said.  According to the new rules, drivers who fail to observe
traffic signals get six demerit points, compared with three
points previously. A driver’s license will be suspended after 12
points.  The new laws should have been more “science-based and
human,” the official Xinhua News Agency said on its Weibo
account.  Some estimates  indicate there are more than 250,000 road
traffic fatalities in China every year, a statistic that would
make road accidents the leading cause of death among people
between 15 and 44 years old in the country, according to the
World Health Organization.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net  