-- Chinese Web Gamers at 51% Discount a Buy to Opennheimer
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-01-04T21:28:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/chinese-web-gamers-at-51-discount-a-buy-to-opennheimer.html
Chinese online gaming stocks trading
at a 51 percent discount to the nation’s equities listed in the
U.S. is a signal to buy the shares on prospects the companies
will use cash to pay dividends, according to Oppenheimer & Co.  Web game developers  Shanda Games Ltd. (GAME) ,  Changyou.com Ltd. (CYOU) ,
 Giant Interactive Group Inc. (GA) ,  NetEase Inc. (NTES)  and Perfect World Co.
Ltd. traded at an average 6.7 times estimated earnings
yesterday, compared with a multiple of 13.7 for stocks on the
 Bloomberg China-US Equity Index. (CH55BN)  This gives them one of the most
enticing valuations in the technology and Internet sector, Andy Yeung, a New York-based analyst at Oppenheimer, said by phone
yesterday.  “Valuations are getting very low, and very attractive to
investors,” said Yeung, whose ratings on the companies range
from market perform to outperform. “These companies are
becoming value stocks.”  Once the companies have developed the games they face low
costs to offer them to players, helping boost their cash piles,
according to Jeff Papp, an analyst at Oberweis Asset Management.
That leaves the companies open to paying out shareholders
through dividends and share buybacks, he said by phone from
Lisle,  Illinois  yesterday.  Changyou boosted its cash from operations to $276.6 million
in the fiscal 2011 year, from the $1.7 million in 2006. The
Beijing-based company declared a special cash  dividend  of $3.80
in August for each American depositary receipt, following 14
percent growth in second-quarter profit that beat analysts’
estimates.  ‘Shareholder Value’  NetEase authorized a  share repurchase program  of as much as
$100 million in November, as well as a special cash dividend of
$1 per American depositary share. The Beijing-based company more
than tripled cash from operations through September last year
from 2007.  “They can extract more  shareholder value  by paying out
more recurring dividends,” Papp said. “That’s something that’s
going to happen more often and that can help attract more
attention to the names.” Oberweis holds shares of Giant
Interactive, Changyou and NetEase.  Shares of Shanghai-based Shanda Games are  trading  4.7 times
its estimated profit, the lowest level among the five online
game operators. The valuation of Beijing-based NetEase is 10.2
times its earnings, the highest among the five.  Online game operators are exposed to product-cycle risk and
have come under scrutiny from the Chinese government, which has
restricted the number of hours the games can be played by
minors, Oppenheimer’s Yeung said. These factors have made
investors cautious on the sector, depressing valuations, he
said.  Prices Gain  Perfect World (PWRD)  surged 6.4 percent in New York to $12.68, the
highest level since April 27, after adding 2 percent in 2012,
less than the China-US gauge’s 10 percent advance last year.
Giant Interactive extended its rally to a sixth day, gaining 4
percent to $6.48, after climbing 33 percent last year.  Changyou.com jumped 3 percent to $29.12, the highest price
since October 2011. Shanda advanced 0.6 percent in its third day
of gains to $3.12, while NetEase added 1.4 percent to $43.4.
After today’s close, the stocks were trading at 6.9 times
estimated earnings on average, shrinking their discount to the
Bloomberg China-U.S. gauge to 50 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in  New York  at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  