-- China Service Industries Grow at Faster Pace as Economy Rebounds
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-03T01:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/china-service-industries-grow-at-faster-pace-as-economy-rebounds.html
China ’s services industries expanded
at the fastest pace in four months, adding to manufacturing
gains that may help sustain an economic rebound this year.  The non-manufacturing  purchasing managers’ index  was at
56.1 in December after a 55.6 reading the previous month, the
National  Bureau of Statistics  and China Federation of Logistics
& Purchasing said in Beijing today. A reading above 50 indicates
expansion.  The report highlights the importance of industries
including retail and lodging as the Communist Party’s new
leadership headed by  Xi Jinping  seek to boost domestic demand
and consumption to make  expansion  more sustainable in the
world’s second-largest economy. China’s exports rose less than
forecast in November from a year earlier.  “The Chinese economy and its asset markets will remain in
a sweet spot in the first half of 2013,” Lu Ting, chief  Greater
China  economist at Bank of America Corp. in  Hong Kong , said
before the data. “The Chinese government will continue its pro-
growth policy stance at the moment to withstand weak external
demand.”  A separate services index will be released tomorrow by  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Markit Economics.  China’s official manufacturing PMI was 50.6 in December,
the third month of expansion and equal to November’s level. The
final reading of a manufacturing PMI released by HSBC and Markit
was 51.5, the highest in 19 months.  The nation’s economic growth probably accelerated to 7.8
percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, up from a
three-year low of 7.4 percent in the previous period, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 34
analysts. The government will release its report Jan. 18.  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  