-- Clean Energy Index Rising in 2013 After 5.5% Drop in 2012
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-01-03T21:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/clean-energy-index-rising-in-2013-after-5-5-drop-in-2012.html
The  WilderHill New Energy Global
Innovation Index (NEX) , which tracks 94 clean-energy stocks, has
gained 4.6 percent since the start of the year after a worldwide
slump in the solar industry pulled it down in 2012.  The NEX, as it’s called, rose 1.6 percent to $125.56 at the
close in New York, after a 2.9 percent increase yesterday. It
lost 5.5 percent of its market value in 2012, while the  NYSE
Arca Oil Index (XOI)  rose 1 percent and the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index climbed 13 percent.  Last year was marked by a risk-averse market, and
speculative investments in renewable energy were “inherently
out of favor,” said  Pavel Molchanov , an analyst at Raymond
James & Associates Inc. in Houston. Those sentiments are
shifting, and the index may rise in 2013, he said.  “When risk appetite is stronger, such as the past two
days, the stocks tend to act much better,” Molchanov said today
in an e-mail.  “If the macroeconomic situation gets better, which seems
to be happening,” investors may show more interest in renewable
energy and clean technology.  Falling Prices  Low margins and falling prices for solar companies, the end
of some national stimulus programs and questions about the
future of other incentives all slowed demand for renewable
energy last year, dragging down many NEX companies, said Joseph Salvatore, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in New
York. The same issues may affect shares this year, he said.  “There is still a large degree of uncertainty out there,
especially in  Europe  with what will happen with the evolution of
renewable-energy policy,” Salvatore said in an interview
yesterday.  There were some bright spots among renewable energy and
clean-technology companies last year. The smart-grid system
maker  Itron Inc. (ITRI)  gained 25 percent and  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , which
makes electric cars, increased 19 percent.  Those were the exceptions, Molchanov said. “The vast
majority were down and solars in particular were down.”  Solar manufacturers  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) ,  Trina Solar
Ltd. (TSL)  and  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE)  all closed the year
down more than 30 percent. Solar panel prices have  plunged  60
percent since the start of 2011.  Some of the pessimism is evaporating with the Jan. 1
extension of the U.S. production tax credit that was sought by
wind-energy companies, and “optimism that the solar market is
at the bottom of the trough,” Salvatore said.  This year will be “a stock picker’s market,” Molchanov
said. “There were be some great winners and some terrible
losers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Wade at 
 wwade4@bloomberg.net  