-- Cliff Act Gets Dumb Deal: Bloomberg Businessweek Opening Remarks
-- B y   P e t e r   C o y
-- 2013-01-03T13:11:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/cliff-act-gets-dumb-deal-bloomberg-businessweek-opening-remarks.html
Ordinarily we call a deal in which
neither side gets what it wants a victory for democracy. Shared
sacrifice produces moderation and probity.  But any process in which the speaker of the House tells the
Senate majority leader “Go f--- yourself,” as John Boehner
instructed Harry Reid at the height of fiscal-cliff madness,
deserves just a bit of examination.  The Jan. 1 deal, which Wall Street cheered, moderates tax
increases and spending cuts that would have amounted to more
than $600 billion in 2013. It’s worth noting, though, that the
fiscal cliff was the mooncalf monster-child of Congress itself.
The automatic spending cuts (“sequester”) were invented by an
act of Congress a mere 17 months ago after the 2011 debt-ceiling
showdown. To praise this new deal as an accomplishment is to
praise an arsonist for extinguishing his own fire.  Congress voted to permanently preserve former President
George W. Bush’s tax cuts for roughly 99 percent of taxpaying
households, but the rate increase for the 1 percent has
infuriated anti-tax purists, who vow to exact more spending cuts
in a couple of months, when the U.S. faces the triple threat of
a  debt ceiling , the postponed sequester, and the expiration of
the law that keeps the government funded. The arsonists now have
a new box of matches.  Moral Clash  Why have Americans been sentenced to this years-long cycle
of pettiness, delay, and zero-sum gamesmanship? You could argue
that it’s a crisis of leadership -- that our elected
representatives are examples of our worst, most partisan selves.
That seems unlikely. Rather, the budget conflict, at its
essence, is a clash over something that rarely lends itself to
compromise: morality.  Budgetary puritans believe, ferociously, that too much
government spending isn’t just inefficient, but self-indulgent.
They view the world’s largest economy as an indebted family that
needs to get back to basics.  “The federal government needs to tighten its belt just
like every hardworking American family has had to do during our
economic recovery,” Representative Kurt Schrader, a fiscally
conservative Blue Dog Democrat from  Oregon , said last year.  Flawed Metaphor  The economy-as-family metaphor is familiar, emotionally
intuitive -- and incorrect. It’s a fallacy of composition:
What’s true for the part is not necessarily true for the whole.
While a family can get its finances back on track by spending
less than it earns, it’s impossible for everyone to do that
simultaneously. When the plumber skips a haircut, the barber
can’t afford to have his drains cleaned.  Economist John Maynard Keynes explained the futility of
trying to shrink an economy into prosperity via thriftiness in
his “A Treatise on Money” in 1930: “Mere abstinence is not
enough by itself to build cities or drain fens,” Keynes wrote.
“If Enterprise is afoot, wealth accumulates whatever may be
happening to Thrift; and if Enterprise is asleep, wealth decays
whatever Thrift may be doing. Thus, Thrift may be the handmaiden
of Enterprise. But equally she may not. And, perhaps, even
usually she is not.”  So let’s try a different metaphor. The economy isn’t a
family but an engine that’s stuck in low gear. It doesn’t need a
disciplinarian; it needs a mechanic.  Growth Needed  The primary goal of government should be to get the economy
running at full throttle again. That will restore jobs and
wealth and increase tax revenue, which narrows budget deficits.
Mark Blyth, a Brown University politics professor with a
forthcoming book called “Austerity: The History of a Dangerous
Idea,” says: “Democrats should have said to Republicans,
‘You’re the guys who created the debt. We’ll deal with the debt
when we return to growth. Get lost.’”  That’s a slightly kinder way of rephrasing Boehner’s
instructions to Reid, and there’s economic wisdom beneath the
brushoff. Budgetary puritans may be sincere and they’re
confusing a short-term problem with a long-term one.  In the 2020s and beyond, the country risks an explosion of
debt caused by the aging of the population and rising health-
care costs. That must be dealt with. But in the present, with
the economy still operating 6 percent below its potential, it
emphatically doesn’t need a big dose of deficit reduction.  Best Solution  If Congress were stacked with 535 centrist macroeconomists,
it would have voted to supply more stimulus immediately while
also setting up a mechanism for reducing deficits over the long
term. “If stimulus is part of a credible long-term deal, that’s
the best of all possible worlds,” says Chris Varvares, co-
founder of St. Louis-based Macroeconomic Advisers.  The deal that Congress produced does roughly the opposite.
It subtracts stimulus in the short term while worsening the
long-term budget picture. Bush’s tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 took
a huge bite out of the government’s revenue. At least they had
expiration dates. In contrast, the tax cuts in the budget deal
that passed Jan. 1 are permanent. Theoretically, they can be
ended by a future Congress. Politically, though, it’s much
harder to raise taxes than to let cuts expire.  If it weren’t obvious enough, neither party has a monopoly
on fiscal intelligence. At Democrats’ insistence, Congress did
nothing to “bend the curve” on spending on Medicare, Medicaid,
and Social Security. Entitlement spending -- mostly on the
health-care side -- could derail the U.S. economy in coming
decades if left unaddressed  ‘Missed Opportunity’  A small change in the trajectory of entitlement spending
and taxation would have furthered the goal of “gas now, brakes
later” -- having very little impact in the next few years and
becoming increasingly valuable in coming decades, when the
deficits begin to explode. Alan Simpson and Erskine Bowles, the
co-chairmen of President  Barack Obama ’s deficit-reduction
commission, lamented in a statement that “the deal approved
yesterday is truly a missed opportunity to do something big to
reduce our long-term fiscal problems.”  What complicates efforts to get government policy right is
that the world has changed in a way that most politicians, and
even many economists, fail to grasp.  In ordinary times, steering the economy is best left to the
monetary policy of the Federal Reserve. The Fed, with its
ability to raise and lower short-term interest rates instantly,
can act faster and with more finesse than any legislative body.  Fed’s Limits  But Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke has taken
monetary policy just about as far as it can go. The Fed has
pushed short-term interest rates to the “zero lower bound” and
yields on long-term Treasuries to historic lows. Each fresh
salvo has less impact than the one before.  A study by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York points out
that mortgage rates haven’t fallen as much as they should have,
given the drop the Fed has managed to engineer in rates on
mortgage-backed securities. And businesses aren’t using cheap
long-term funds to expand, as Jeremy Stein, a Harvard University
economist who is a newcomer to the Fed’s Board of Governors,
observed in a Nov. 30 speech. They’re more likely to use the
proceeds to reduce short-term debt or pay dividends.  For  Washington , there’s an opportunity in this unusual
situation. Just as monetary policy loses effectiveness, fiscal
policy has become more potent than ever.  Ordinarily, Congress can’t boost gross domestic product
much through deficit spending because its extra borrowing raises
interest rates, crowding private borrowers out of the market.
Today there’s no risk of crowding out because there are lots of
idle resources -- labor, machinery, and money. The Fed will keep
long-term rates down no matter how much the government borrows.  Debt Elixir  It pains deficit hawks to hear this: Ever since the 2008
financial crisis, government red ink has been an elixir for the
U.S. economy. After the crisis, households strove to pay down
debt and businesses hoarded profits while skimping on
investment. If the federal government had tried to run balanced
budgets, there would have been an enormous economywide deficit
of demand and the economic slump would have been far worse.  In 2009, fiscal policy added about 2.7 percentage points to
the economy’s growth rate, according to calculations by Mark Zandi of Moody’s Analytics. But since then, the U.S. has
underutilized fiscal policy as a recession-fighting tool. The
economic boost dropped to just half a percentage point in 2010.
Fiscal policy curbed growth in the past two years and will again
in 2013, by about one percentage point, Zandi estimates.  Not U.K.  It could have been worse. President Obama has been a
smarter slump-fighter than U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron.
The Tory vowed to reduce deficits by curtailing spending. The
cuts weakened the economy, clipping 2012 growth to roughly zero.
It’s hard to balance the budget when the economy is that weak:
For all its painful austerity, the U.K.’s deficit-to-GDP ratio
is no better than America’s. And you say “trillion-dollar
deficit” like it’s a bad thing!  The Tea Partiers and Blue Dogs who rail against deficits
warn that the U.S. risks becoming another  Greece . The difference
is that for Greece, austerity is a brutal necessity; the
International Monetary Fund and other official sources that are
providing funds to the country insist on it.  The U.S. has no such constraint. Investors are so eager to
lend money to the U.S. that the Treasury can issue 10-year
inflation-protected securities at an interest rate of minus 0.75
percent. The U.S. has the breathing room to spend what’s needed
to raise the economy’s long-run growth potential, whether it be
stepping up government-sponsored research and development,
fixing roads and bridges, or fully funding Head Start.  Point, Counterpoint  Early in 2012, two prominent Democratic economists argued
that when interest rates are at zero, stimulus can actually pay
for itself by increasing economic activity. It was the left’s
counter to the right’s argument that tax cuts can pay for
themselves by juicing up growth.  The case appeared in a Brookings Institution paper byJ. Bradford DeLong of the University of  California , Berkeley, and
Lawrence Summers, who was President Bill Clinton’s Treasury
secretary and was National Economic Council director for part of
President Obama’s first term. Their case for stimulus hinges
partly on the danger of hysteresis -- the idea that weakness
begets more weakness. Fired workers lose skills and become
unemployable, causing joblessness to remain high.  In the presence of hysteresis, there’s a big payoff from
bringing unemployment down as quickly as possible. DeLong and
Summers also said that in today’s weak economy, increased
government spending has a bigger-than-usual bang for the buck.
In technical terms, the “multiplier” is high.  Overoptimistic View  Valerie Ramey, a University of California, San Diego,
economist who was designated to comment on the DeLong-Summers
paper, said that the economists may have used overoptimistic
estimates for hysteresis and the multiplier. In a Jan. 1 e-mail,
DeLong stood by the paper. He was set to discuss his case for
more stimulus on a panel with Ramey and Paul Krugman at an
American Economic Association meeting in San Diego on Jan. 6.  Those who condemned the budget deal, from the left and the
right, focused on its mix of tax increases and spending cuts.
Supply-siders regard raising taxes as a worse method of budget-
balancing than reducing spending because higher levies curb
incentives to work.  Keynesians hold that tax increases are a better choice
because they blunt demand less than would an equivalent dollar
amount of budget cuts. Especially at the high end of incomes,
people keep spending even when their taxes rise.  Cutting Deficit  As a first cut, though, ideology is irrelevant. What
matters most to the economy’s growth rate is the total amount of
deficit reduction, not the means of achieving it.  On that score, things could have turned out a lot worse.
The economy would have fallen into a recession in the first half
if the scheduled fiscal-cliff measures had all taken effect.
Assuming House Republicans don’t achieve big spending cuts in a
few months, economists look for 2013 growth of about 2 percent.  Strangely enough, then, congressional gridlock may have
kept lawmakers from doing even more damage.  Republicans managed to stave off bigger tax increases, and
Democrats prevented greater spending cuts. As a result, the U.S.
was spared a U.K.- or Greek-style dose of austerity.  What’s normally a recipe for irresponsibility is helpful in
this depressed economy, when the greatest danger is being overly
virtuous. The risk of messing things up remains, as long as the
recovery is fragile and austerians are fired up.  As Senator Joe Manchin, a Democrat from West Virginia, put
it shortly before the new year: “Something has gone terribly
wrong when the biggest threat to our American economy is the
American Congress.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Coy in  New York  at 
 pcoy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  