-- Clinton Returns to Office Next Week, No Foreign Travel
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-01-04T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/clinton-returns-to-office-next-week-no-foreign-travel.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  is
making phone calls and reviewing paperwork while recovering at
home and she plans to return to her office next week, State
Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said.  Clinton, who was discharged from New York-Presbyterian
Hospital Dec. 2 after being treated there for a blood clot near
her brain, is at home in  New York  “sounding terrific, upbeat,
raring to go,” Nuland said yesterday at a news briefing in
Washington.  Clinton, 65, spoke yesterday with senior staff, handled
official paperwork, and called in to a meeting of her foreign
policy advisory board, which was discussing the situation in
 Syria  and a number of long-term policy issues, according to
Nuland.  “She’s looking forward to getting back to the office,”
Nuland said. “She is very much planning to do so next week.”  Nuland said Clinton will testify to Congress at some point
on the Sept. 11, 2012 attack on the U.S. mission in Benghazi,
 Libya .  “She is committed to testifying, and we are working with
the committees on an appropriate set of dates,” Nuland said.  Clinton has received a “tsunami” of supportive  messages
from foreign officials, Nuland said.  Clinton won’t do any international travel “for a little
while” under instructions from her doctors, Nuland said.
Because Clinton is already preparing to leave her post once her
successor is confirmed by the Senate, that may mean she will do
no more travel as secretary of state.  A series of ailments, starting with a stomach virus
following her last foreign trip, has kept Clinton out of public
view for almost a month, grounding the woman who has logged
almost a million miles as the U.S.’s most-traveled top diplomat.  Blood Clot  Clinton was hospitalized Dec. 30 for a blood clot found
that day between her brain and skull, according to her aides,
who have said the clot was discovered when an MRI scan was
performed during a check-up before Clinton’s planned return to
work. The secretary had suffered a concussion after fainting at
home from dehydration while ill with a stomach virus, aides have
said.  Kerry’s Nomination  Clinton’s medical team advised that she is “making good
progress on all fronts, and they are confident she will make a
full recovery,” Philippe Reines, deputy assistant secretary of
state for public affairs, said Jan. 2.  President  Barack Obama  last month named Massachusetts
Democrat  John Kerry , chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, as his choice to succeed Clinton.  Some Republican senators have said they won’t consider
Kerry’s nomination to replace her until Clinton appears. Clinton
has said she will testify about the attack on a U.S. mission in
Benghazi that resulted in the death of U.S. Ambassador Chris
Stevens and three other Americans.  Clinton, a former first lady, U.S. senator and presidential
candidate, is one of the world’s best-known figures and ranks in
polls as the early Democratic favorite for president in 2016 if
she chooses to run again. In a Gallup poll of Americans released
over the weekend, she ranked as the most-admired woman in the
world for the 11th consecutive year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  Washington  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  