-- Coinstar Names Di Valerio CEO as Davis Unexpectedly Retires
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-01-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/coinstar-names-cfo-di-valerio-ceo-in-shakeup-as-davis-retires.html
Coinstar Inc. (CSTR) , owner of the Redbox
movie-rental kiosks, named Chief Financial Officer J. Scott Di Valerio to be chief executive officer after the unexpected
retirement of Paul Davis. The shares declined.  Di Valerio will assume the new role after Davis, 55,
retires on March 31, Bellevue, Washington-based Coinstar said
yesterday in a statement. Galen Smith, senior vice president of
finance at Redbox, will succeed Di Valerio as CFO.  The changes come as Redbox and partner  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  prepare for the commercial debut of Redbox
Instant, a service that combines access to Redbox DVD rentals
with the ability to stream movies online. Coinstar also is
rolling out Rubi, a line of gourmet coffee vending machines.
While Davis’s retirement was a surprise, the company’s strategy
is unlikely to change, said  Eric Wold , an analyst at B. Riley
Caris in  San Francisco , who recommends buying the shares.  “It’s somewhat of a disappointment in terms of how strong
Paul Davis was in positioning the company for growth going
forward with new businesses,” Wold said. “I don’t expect any
major changes in their trajectory. They all agreed on the
direction the company was taking.”  Redbox Instant, now in a public beta test, is scheduled to
start in the first quarter.  Completed Deals  Davis decided to retire after completing several key deals,
including the partnership with Verizon and the sale of
underperforming businesses such as one that sold prepaid cards
for mobile phones, Marci Maule, a company spokeswoman, said in
an e-mail.  Coinstar also expanded last year into the sale of tickets
to concerts and sporting events.  “Paul accomplished what he set out to do and decided it’s
the right time to retire,” Maule said.  Coinstar also said fourth-quarter earnings, excluding some
items, will be at or above the high end of its Oct. 25 forecast
of 62 cents to 77 cents a share. Revenue will be within the
previously announced range of $552 million to $602 million.  The stock fell as much as 5.9 percent to $48.97 yesterday
following the announcement, which was released after the markets
closed. Coinstar slipped 0.9 percent to $52.05 yesterday in
regular trading and gained 14 percent last year.  Investors probably are looking for more clarity on any
change in the company’s plans, Wold said of Coinstar’s drop.  Davis, who joined Coinstar in 2008 as chief operating
officer, will leave the company’s board in March when he
retires, according to the statement. Di Valerio, 50, has been
CFO since 2010 and also oversaw the company’s information
technology and supply chain operations.  “Scott’s appointment as CEO is a direct result of the
board’s long-time focus on developing a deep management team and
ensures that Coinstar will continue to benefit from strong
leadership,” Chairman Deborah Bevier said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  