-- Colombian Peso Strengthens on Foreign Investment Outlook
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2013-01-03T21:57:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/colombian-peso-bond-yields-rise-on-inflation-outlook.html
Colombia ’s peso rose for a second day
amid speculation that favorable tax policies and increasing
confidence in the South American country’s security will spur
foreign investment.  The currency advanced 0.1 percent to 1,762.70 per  U.S.
dollar  at the close of trading in Bogota. It touched 1,750.50
yesterday, the strongest level since July 2011.  Traders are betting more money will flow into the country
after Colombian lawmakers last month passed a bill to cut taxes
on foreigners’ bond profits to 14 percent from 33 percent,
according to Diana Guiza, an analyst at Bogota-based brokerage
Corredores Asociados. Colombia’s peso gained 9.7 percent last
year, the most after the Polish zloty and Hungarian forint among
171 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “The peso historically has a tendency to gain in the first
half of the year amid rising foreign direct investment,” Guiza
said in a phone interview. “The  tax cut  should also be a driver
as it attracts portfolio investment.”  The peso strengthened last year as army victories over
guerrillas opened up swaths of countryside to overseas
investment in mining and oil.  Colombia’s central bank Governor Jose Dario Uribe said
yesterday on RCN Radio that the strong peso is a concern and
reiterated that Banco de la Republica will buy at least $20
million a day through at least the first quarter. The central
bank printed pesos to buy a record $4.4 billion last year.  The yield on the government’s 10 percent peso-denominated
debt due in July 2024 was little changed at 5.66 percent,
according to the central bank. That’s the lowest closing level
since the bonds were first issued in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  