-- Copper Advances on Prospects for an Economic Rebound in China
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-01-03T11:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/copper-advances-on-prospects-for-an-economic-rebound-in-china.html
Copper rose for a third day in  London 
as Chinese services industries expanded at the fastest pace in
four months, bolstering prospects for an economic rebound in the
world’s biggest consumer of the metal.  A purchasing managers’ index climbed to 56.1 in December,
 China ’s statistics bureau and its logistics federation said.
Copper advanced the most since September yesterday after
lawmakers in the U.S., the second-largest copper user, passed a
bill to avoid tax increases and spending cuts. Lead reached the
highest price in 16 months today.  “The market will be keen to buy any pullbacks,” Mark Newson-Smith, head of sales at XConnect Trading Ltd. in London,
said by e-mail. “Any gains are likely to be less spectacular
than yesterday.”  Copper for delivery in three months added 0.2 percent to
$8,229 a metric ton by 10:50 a.m. on the London Metal Exchange.
Prices touched the highest level since Oct. 18. Copper for
delivery in March rose 0.2 percent to $3.745 a pound on the
Comex in  New York . Chinese markets are shut for a holiday.  “There is a feeling too that the Chinese may well sell on
their return to trading tomorrow,” Newson-Smith said.  Reports tomorrow may show hiring in the U.S. strengthened
last month and factory orders increased for a third month in
November, according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. A gauge
of U.S. manufacturing from the  Institute for Supply Management 
released yesterday was stronger than analysts estimated.  Inventories of copper tracked by the LME fell for the first
time in 18 sessions, slipping 0.2 percent to 320,000 tons, daily
exchange figures showed. Stockpiles jumped 46 percent in the
fourth quarter, the biggest surge since 2009.  “Copper is going to have a difficult time maintaining
these sorts of outsize gains lately,”  Donald Selkin ,  New York- 
based chief market strategist at National Securities
Corp., said by e-mail yesterday.  Lead for delivery in three months on the LME climbed as
much as 2.8 percent to $2,499 a ton, the highest price since
Sept. 2, 2011. Zinc rose as much as 2.2 percent to $2,187.25 a
ton, the highest level since Jan. 27. Aluminum and nickel gained
as tin dropped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  