-- Curbs to Prevent Stock Volatility May Be Delayed, Bats Says
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2013-01-03T21:56:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/curbs-to-prevent-stock-volatility-may-be-delayed-bats-says.html
New curbs to limit rapid price moves
in individual stocks and changes to rules designed to prevent
market-wide routs may be delayed two months to April, according
to exchange operator Bats Global Markets Inc.  The shift from circuit breakers that pause trading if a
stock rises or falls 10 percent in five minutes to curbs that
limit moves without automatically triggering a halt will take
effect April 8 instead of Feb. 4, subject to regulatory
approval, the Lenexa, Kansas-based company said in a  notice  on
its website. Changes to an  existing program  that stops all
equity-based trading across stocks, options and futures will
also be delayed, Bats said in the statement.  Both measures are meant to protect investors from extreme
price moves. The gauge that will trigger the market-wide circuit
breakers is switching from the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  to
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, while the price drop for
trading to stop is being narrowed and the length of pauses
shortened in most cases. The so-called limit-up/limit-down plan,
which prevents individual stocks from moving outside a rolling
price band, will replace the automatic halts implemented after
the flash crash on May 6, 2010, when the 30-stock Dow average
briefly fell 9.2 percent.  “Sifma has been supportive of the limit-up/limit-down
plan, and the plan should promote investor confidence,” T.R. Lazo, managing director and associate general counsel of the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, which
represents banks, brokers and asset managers, said in an e-mail.
“Because the plan is such an important market development, our
member firms want to make sure they have sufficient time to test
the necessary systems and coding changes so that the
implementation is successful.”  ‘Interpretive Issues’  The trade group said “substantial operational and
interpretive issues” must be addressed before the individual-
stock curbs can be implemented, according to a Nov. 30  letter  to
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Not enough
information is available to brokers to make the software code
changes that are necessary, it said.  “Proceeding with the current implementation schedule would
create a great deal of risk, as well as a situation in which
firms are required to implement significant systems and coding
changes without sufficient time to conduct testing,” it said.  SEC OK Needed  The SEC must approve the request to delay implementation of
the limit-up/limit-down plan by the 13  stock exchanges  and
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, which oversees more
than 4,300 brokers, for it to go into effect. A separate delay
request would have to be submitted by securities exchanges and
Finra for the market-wide circuit breakers, introduced after the
October 1987 market crash.  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC, declined to comment.
Also declining comment were Keara Everdell, a spokeswoman for
 NYSE Euronext (NYX) , Robert Madden of  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and Jim Gorman at Direct Edge Holdings LLC. Dow Jones reported the
planned delay yesterday.  The  Financial Information Forum , a group of brokers,
exchanges and vendors, asked the SEC in a Dec. 13  letter  to
delay the start of both price curbs to late March to give market
participants more time to write the necessary computer code and
test their systems. This was done to reduce systemic risk and
safeguard the market by trying out the individual-stock program
with test or fake security symbols before it’s implemented,
according to Manisha Kimmel, executive director of the group.  ‘More Testing’  “We were concerned about the timing of this whole
process,” Kimmel said in a phone interview. “We said we should
use test symbols in production to be consistent with the SEC’s
roundtable on market technology, and do more testing to reduce
systemic risk. This affects market data, order-routing systems,
trading systems at exchanges and broker-dealers.”  The limit-up/limit-down plan prevents certain stocks with a
previous closing price higher than $3 from moving more than 5
percent from their average price over the previous five minutes.
If prices rise or fall the maximum amount they will enter a 15-
second so-called limit state to allow the market to correct
itself. If prices recover, trading continues. If not, the market
will stop trading the security for five minutes, as is currently
the case for extreme price moves.  Gradual Launch  The new  rules  for individual stocks will be introduced
gradually, first for components of the  S&P 500 , Russell 1000
Index and a group of about 430 exchange-traded products, and
later for all those listed on exchanges, according to the SEC.
Securities with prices up to $3 and those not in the initial
group will have larger trading bands under the planned curbs.
Changes to these volatility restrictions were proposed to avoid
halting a stock when prices move rapidly because of errant
activity, according to the exchanges and SEC.  FIF held three conference calls, each with more than 100
attendees, to discuss changes to the plan for individual stocks
in November and December, Kimmel said. The group is a subsidiary
of New York-based Jordan & Jordan, which specializes in
securities industry information and compliance issues.  The exchanges are also working to update their own rules
for the limit-up/limit-down plan, Kimmel said. These changes
will specify how orders are treated when the market is in a so-
called limit state and how equity and options exchanges will
handle buy and sell requests at that time to ensure consistency
and reduce confusion among investors and brokers, she said.
These rules should be available to individuals writing software
code before testing of the new regulation starts, she said.  The current single-stock circuit breakers would continue
until the new start date for the limit-up/limit-down plan,
according to Bats. On Feb. 4, the existing curbs would be
changed to start at 9:30 a.m.  New York  time instead of 9:45 a.m.
and would end at 3:50 p.m. instead of 3:35 p.m. so they cover
more of the trading day, Bats said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 