-- Debt Ceiling Fight Could Be Train Wreck
-- B y   S e a n   W e s t
-- 2013-01-03T13:55:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/debt-ceiling-fight-could-be-train-wreck.html
As I suggested likely  in these pages , Congress and President  Barack Obama 
managed to find a way to avert the dreaded fiscal cliff with a  good enough deal 
to raise some new  tax revenue  but avoid a massive tax rate increase as well as
automatic spending cuts.  What they didn’t do was create a new form of
bipartisan political interaction that gives reason to be optimistic about how
they will address the debt limit and government spending decisions that loom in
just a few weeks. While lawmakers can be proud that they exceeded the expectations of many by
not allowing a massive growth shock, the real story of the fiscal cliff is one
of opportunity cost. President Obama and Speaker  John Boehner  had a chance to
set in motion a new form of bipartisan cooperation. Even if they failed to agree
to the larger framework deal that keeps escaping them, it would have been a far
better sign for the future if the cliff deal had been brokered directly by the
two people in  Washington  with real power. Instead, it was left to their
respective surrogate and colleague -- Vice President  Joe Biden  and Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  -- to broker a last-minute deal. Trouble is, the Biden-McConnell troupe is likely a one-hit wonder. House
Republicans feel they were fleeced by their Senate counterparts; it’s hard to
see the House abdicating responsibility to the Senate again in the near future.
And Obama -- by letting Biden broker a deal many congressional Democrats dislike
while the president  stoked public support for the administration’s position --
increased bad blood both within his own party and also with  House Republicans ,
with whom he will have to deal in the weeks ahead. In the process, however,
Obama did manage to secure a major tactical victory; the deal satisfied many of
his policy goals. It’s too early to say that the debt limit negotiations will necessarily be a
train wreck, but the last few weeks provide little reason to be too optimistic
that politics will soon change for the better. Obama could upend political
dynamics by taking a different approach to his second term. He could set a new,
more bipartisan tone in his inaugural and  State of the Union  addresses, perhaps
shaking the dynamic of brinkmanship and last minute-ism that has taken hold.
House Republicans -- with a reduced caucus due to the loss of eight seats in
November's election -- may well find themselves approaching budgetary battles
differently than they have in the past. But there’s no evidence either side
intends to follow a new script. So we’re left looking forward to a debt ceiling, sequestration, and
continuing resolution fight that may be nastier than the fiscal cliff imbroglio.
At least in the case of the cliff, both sides had aligned incentives in that
neither actually wanted across-the-board tax increases or spending cuts to take
hold. But the incentives are now much different. Obama wants to break the
Republican desire to extract dollar-for-dollar spending cuts for debt ceiling
increases by refusing to negotiate on the issue. And unless Obama gives House
Republicans significant spending cuts -- or at least a credible illusion of them
-- they are going to hold out until the bitter end on increasing the debt
limit. While I was one of few optimists about the chance of a fiscal cliff deal, I
am cautious about the path forward. (Sean West is head of the United States practice at Eurasia Group, a global
political risk advisory firm.  Follow  him on Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .    