-- Dell Shares Rise as UBS Analyst Milunovich Raises Target
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-01-03T21:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/dell-shares-rise-as-ubs-analyst-milunovich-raises-price-target.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  rose to the highest price
in more than four months, gaining for a third trading day, after
an analyst at UBS AG raised his price target on optimism for the
computer maker’s new offerings for corporate customers.  Dell  gained  2.5 percent to $10.94 at the close in New York,
the highest price since Aug. 27. The stock has risen 9.7 percent
this week.  UBS’s Steven Milunovich said he spoke with executives
including Marius Haas, Dell’s president of enterprise solutions,
whose priority is broadening audience for the company’s business
computing products. Milunovich said Dell’s corporate-product
lineup has improved, and the Round Rock, Texas-based company is
taking market share from  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and International
Business Machines Corp. in some server markets.  “Dell has cobbled together an attractive portfolio of
enterprise technology,” Milunovich wrote in a report today. The
analyst raised his 12-month price target on the shares to $10.50
from $9.75. He has a  neutral  rating on Dell stock.  Dell is securing meetings with companies’ chief information
officers, and has garnered interest in products including
integrated computer servers, networking gear, data-storage
devices and software, wrote Milunovich.  “The most common refrain is, ‘We didn’t know Dell did
that,’” he said. In October, Dell introduced its Active System
computer that combines these functions inside a single chassis.  Dell has spent more than $12.7 billion on 18 acquisitions
since 2009, and will focus on small and medium-size deals to add
tools that complement its personal computers and servers,
founder  Michael Dell  said last month.  Dell is struggling to transform from a supplier of PCs --
which still account for almost half its sales -- into a maker of
more lucrative servers, business software and storage and
networking gear.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jillian Ward at 
 jward56@bloomberg.net  