-- Disney Seeks to Halt Bankruptcy Sale of 3-D Technology
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-01-03T21:12:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/disney-seeks-to-halt-bankruptcy-sale-of-3-d-technology.html
A  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  unit asked a
federal judge to block a bankruptcy court ruling that would
allow another company to sell patents related to three-
dimensional movies.  Walt Disney Studios Motion Picture Production’s rights to
use the technology to convert traditional films into 3-D movies
will be harmed, the company said in its appeal yesterday in U.S.
District Court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  The dispute involves the shell company left in bankruptcy
by the collapse of Digital Domain Media Group Inc., the provider
of special effects for the movies “Transformers” and
“Titanic.” That shell, known as DDMG Estate, held an auction
for the patents last month that was won by  RealD Inc. (RLD)   Disney claims it has the right to use the technology
because of agreements it signed with the original patent holder
in 2008 and 2009. The agreements allowed Disney to use the 3D
conversion patents on the films “Alice in Wonderland” and “G-
Force.”  The “G-Force” agreement granted Disney the right to keep
using the 3D patents, Burbank, California-based Disney claims in
its appeal.  ‘In Perpetuity’  In a Dec. 10 ruling, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Brendan Linehan Shannon disagreed with Disney’s position. The dispute raised the
question of whether Disney could “use that technology, gratis,
in perpetuity,” Shannon said in his ruling. He ruled the
company could not.  After his ruling, RealD won the auction with a bid of $5.45
million and Shannon later approved the sale, which hasn’t yet
closed.  U.S. District Judge Sue L. Robinson agreed to hold a
telephone hearing tomorrow so Disney can try to persuade her to
overturn Shannon’s ruling and temporarily prevent DDMG from
closing the sale.  DDMG lawyer Debra Grassgreen, with the  law firm  Pachulski,
Stang, Ziehl & Jones, declined to comment on Disney’s filing.  The other assets of  Digital Domain (DDMGQ)  were sold at a separate
auction in September for more than $30 million to a partnership
of Chinese and Indian film companies.  Digital Domain’s special-effects artists have won multiple
Academy Awards, including one for the Brad Pitt movie, “The
Curious Case of Benjamin Button.”  The appeal is In re: DDMG Estate, 13-cv-00007, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  