-- Drugmaker Hub Hit as Power Gap at Six-Year High: Corporate India
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2013-01-04T11:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/drugmaker-hub-hit-as-power-gap-at-six-year-high-corporate-india.html
Venkateswarlu Jasti, chairman of an
Indian contract drugmaker, plans to buy electricity from
exchanges to cut the cost of generating his own energy as power
shortages worsen.  Companies in  India ’s Andhra Pradesh state, including
Jasti’s  Suven Life Sciences Ltd. (SVLS) , have been increasingly relying
on diesel generators to fuel plants after the power deficit in
the area surged to 19 percent in the six months ended November,
the biggest gap in at least six years. Suven plans to purchase
50 percent of its energy requirement directly from exchanges to
ensure supply, Jasti said. Power exchanges allow generators to
sell a portion of their production to buyers at a premium.  Diesel use is “going to affect each and every aspect of
the business,” Jasti said in a phone interview. Using
generators that run on diesel almost triples the cost of power
and will probably slice 5 percent from profit in the year ending
March, he said.  India’s drug exports will fall 5 percent short of
projections in the year to March after the power deficit widened
in  Andhra Pradesh , which accounts for 33 percent of India’s $13
billion overseas medicine sales, according to P.V. Appaji,
director general of the  Pharmaceuticals Export Promotion Council
of India . Outages of at least four hours a day contribute to a
shortfall of more than 40 percent.  Widening Gap  The power deficit during peak hours in Andhra Pradesh
widened to 19 percent in the April-November period, compared
with 12.5 percent in the year-earlier period, according to data
on the Central Electricity Authority’s  website . The gap narrowed
to 9 percent for the country as a whole from 10.6 percent, the
data shows.  Power supply to the drug making factories, mostly located
near Hyderabad, is almost completely shut off from 6 p.m. to 10
p.m., according to M.V. Rajeshwara Rao, secretary general of the
Federation of Andhra Pradesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry.
The state has 520 drug exporters, data show.  “Industry faces a heavier burden of the power cuts”
compared with the state average, Rao said. “Even though the
average power shortage is about 15 to 25 percent, industry is
suffering 40 percent to 60 percent power cuts.”  Electricity sourced from the government-run electricity
grid costs about 6 rupees per unit, compared with 18 rupees a
unit from on-site diesel-run generators, according to P. Bhaskara Narayana, chief financial officer of Hyderabad-based
drugmaker  Natco Pharma Ltd. (NTCPH)   The cost of purchasing from power exchanges ranged from 6
rupees to 10 rupees a unit in December in the zone that includes
Andhra Pradesh, according to  Power Exchange India Ltd. , which
provides a marketplace for energy trading.  Power Woes  India has missed every annual target to add electricity
production capacity since 1951, resulting in a peak demand
deficit of about 10 percent. Power cuts are common across
swathes of India as the country battles outages that the
government says shave about 1.2 percentage points off annual
economic growth.  The power supply situation in Andhra Pradesh may not
improve till 2016 when additional capacity of 6,000 megawatts is
expected to be available, K. Ranganatham, joint managing
director for distribution at  Transmission Corporation of Andhra
Pradesh Ltd. , said.  “We acknowledge the fact that industry has suffered due to
the power crisis,” said Ranganatham. “There may not be a
permanent solution to the power woes before 2016.”  Energy Costs  Shares of Suven, based in the Andhra Pradesh capital of
Hyderabad, more than doubled last year, compared with a 26
percent increase in the benchmark Sensitive Index. They rose 3.8
percent to 32.5 rupees at close of Mumbai trading today.  Dealing with the power shortage is a “matter of concern”
for both large drugmakers such as Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd.,
 Aurobindo Pharma Ltd. (ARBP)  and smaller competitors such as Suven and
Natco, said Siddhant Khandekar, an analyst at ICICI Direct.  “It’s a double whammy for the small players,” said
Khandekar. “The shortage is already there, and the government
could increase prices of grid power because of rising demand.”  Running diesel generators continually to meet the power
shortfall isn’t a sustainable option as the costs are “really
prohibitive,” Sudhir Singhi, chief financial officer of
Aurobindo Pharma, said on a Nov. 12 conference call.  Pfizer Supplier  The Pfizer Inc. supplier is the second-biggest drugmaker in
the state after Dr. Reddy’s and recently switched to buying
electricity from power exchanges to lower costs. Smaller
companies’ requirements are often too little to make them
eligible to purchase from these exchanges.  Suven’s net income, excluding units, rose 38 percent in the
year ended March 31, slower than the 49 percent pace in the
year-earlier period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Suven makes medicinal ingredients and other chemicals used
in the manufacture of drugs, according to its website. The bulk
of its sales comes from pharmaceutical outsourcing and the
company is a supplier of chemicals to large multinational
drugmakers.  Natco, which gets half its revenue from finished drugs such
as those to treat HIV and cancer and the rest from supply of
drug ingredients, is also reeling from higher electricity bills
on account of running more expensive diesel generators during
outages.  “Obviously, it is more costly and it is eating into our
profits,” Natco’s Narayana said in an interview. “I guess we
have to put up with this condition for a lot of time to come and
there is no alternative but to live with it.”  Earnings Forecast  Natco’s earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and
amortization margins, excluding units, declined for the second
straight year in the 12 months ended March 31, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Net income  may increase 36 percent to 809
million rupees in the year ending March 31, according to the
median of three analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  About 18 percent of Natco’s power, and 20 percent of
Suven’s came from diesel generators in the year ended March 31,
according to their annual reports.  Drugmakers such as Suven and Natco get a big chunk of their
revenue from exports. Suven gets 65 percent of its revenue from
the U.S. and  Europe , according to its website.  Exports of pharmaceuticals are forecast to rise 17 percent
to $15.5 billion in the year ending March 31, Pharmexcil’s
Appaji said. This target may not be met, he said.  Companies such as  Virchow Biotech Ltd. , the world’s biggest
maker of the antibiotic sulfamethoxazole, said they will need to
pass on the higher costs of using back-up power to the
customers. Competitors elsewhere in the country and overseas may
benefit from the situation, said Narayana Reddy, managing
director of Virchow.  Passing Costs  The higher costs for drugmakers in Andhra Pradesh would
mean that they will be outpriced by competitors from elsewhere
by as much as 8 percent, said Suven’s Jasti.  “Today we are incurring the loss for the company who is
the manufacturer,” Virchow’s Reddy said. “We cannot run all
the time like this and it will be transferred to the customer.”  The drugmakers are concerned the outages will increase in
summer months, when temperatures soar to as high as 44 degrees
Celsius (111.2 degrees Fahrenheit) and power demand surges. It
will put more at risk than just their profitability.  “Falling margins is only a temporary effect,” said
Natco’s Narayana. “But if the situation continues like this,
your ability to compete in the international arena will be
vastly reduced.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  