-- Dubai Islamic to Acquire Mortgage Lender Tamweel Via Share Swap
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-01-03T14:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/dubai-islamic-to-acquire-mortgage-lender-tamweel-via-share-swap.html
Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB)  offered to
take over mortgage provider  Tamweel PJSC (TAMWEEL)  through a share swap,
four days after the United Arab Emirates’ central bank issued
guidelines restricting home loans.  Tamweel shareholders will be offered 10 Dubai Islamic
shares for every 18 held, the bank said in an e-mailed statement
today after the market close. The fair value of Dubai Islamic
and Tamweel shares was set at 2.25 dirhams and 1.25 dirhams,
respectively.  Tamweel shares fell 2.5 percent to 1.19 dirhams at the
close today, valuing the company at 1.2 billion dirhams ($327
million).  Dubai Islamic shares  rose 1.5 percent to 2.06 dirhams.  The offer follows the U.A.E. central bank’s decision to cap
mortgages for foreigners and nationals at 50 percent and 70
percent of the property values. Dubai’s real estate market is
showing some signs of recovery after prices plunged about 65
percent over four years after global credit crisis, bringing the
emirate to the brink of default in 2009. Dubai’s ruler in
November announced developments including a new district that
includes the world’s biggest shopping mall.  Shares of Tamweel and Amlak Finance PJSC, another Dubai-
based Islamic mortgage provider, were halted in 2008 after the
government announced plans to merge the two companies and inject
money to help them cope with the financial crisis. The merger
plan was abandoned after Dubai Islamic increased its stake in
Tamweel to 58 percent.  Tamweel shares , which resumed trading in May 2011, will be
delisted from the Dubai stock market after completion of the
takeover, said Dubai Islamic, the U.A.E.’s biggest lender
complying with Shariah banking laws.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  