-- Dust Bowl Wilting U.S. Wheat as Funds Turn Bearish
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-01-03T16:50:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/dust-bowl-wilting-u-s-wheat-as-funds-turn-bearish-commodities.html
The worst U.S. drought since the
1930s Dust Bowl is damaging wheat crops across the world’s
biggest supplier, at a time when  hedge funds  are the most
bearish on prices in seven months.  About 61 percent of the country is mired in a dry spell
that the government says will last at least until March in
states growing the most winter wheat. With dormant crops already
in the worst condition since records began in 1985 and global
inventories headed for a third annual drop, Chicago futures may
rise as much as 25 percent to $9.50 a bushel this year, the
median of 32 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg shows.  That raises the prospect of prices reversing their 20
percent drop since a July peak, a retreat that spurred hedge
funds to start betting on more declines in December. The
prolonged drought is increasing concern that supplies will
tighten because there is also dry weather in  Argentina  and
 Australia . Heat waves in the  Black Sea  last year curbed cargoes
until the next harvest and a lack of rain is slowing barge
traffic on the  Mississippi , which handles about 60 percent of
U.S. grain exports.  “We don’t see any fundamental reason why the wheat market
should be going down,” said Tom Neher, a vice president at
AgStar Financial Services in Rochester,  Minnesota , who helps
manage the company’s grain investments valued at about $2.1
billion. “We’re looking at Argentina and the Black Sea area and
Australia with smaller-than-normal crops. In the U.S., the crop
isn’t ideal going into the winter stretch.”  Top Gains  Wheat advanced 19 percent to $7.78 in 2012 on the  Chicago 
Board of Trade, having risen as high as $9.4725 in July. It was
the biggest gain in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot gauge of 24
commodities, which rose 0.3 percent. The MSCI All-Country World
Index of equities jumped 13 percent, and the dollar fell 0.5
percent against a basket of six trading partners. Treasuries
returned 2.3 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  About 33 percent of winter-wheat fields were in good or
excellent  condition  by Nov. 25, from 52 percent a year earlier,
U.S. Department of Agriculture data show. Winter wheat, which
goes dormant during the winter and resumes growth in March and
April, is the most common variety grown, accounting for about 70
percent of U.S. production.  Drought is affecting all of  Kansas , the biggest winter-
wheat grower, with conditions in the western counties that can
cause widespread crop losses, according to the U.S. Drought
Monitor. Rainfall was as little as 10 percent of normal in the
past 60 days in parts of Kansas,  Oklahoma  and  Texas , National
Weather Service data show.  Lost Crop  Kenneth Failes, who farms 850 acres near Cherokee,
Oklahoma, said as much as 40 percent of his wheat didn’t emerge
from the dry soil before the start of freezing weather and is
lost. Growers in the southern Great Plains may abandon as much
as 25 percent of their hard, red winter-wheat crop, the most
since 2003, according to Mark Hodges, the executive director of
Plains Grains Inc., a  marketing company  in Stillwater, Oklahoma.  Global production will drop 5.9 percent to 655.11 million
metric tons in the year ending May 31, the USDA estimates.
Inventories are declining for a third year and will be at the
lowest level relative to consumption since 2008, when wheat
prices surged to a record $13.495 in Chicago.  Rain Fix  Rain in the next 60 to 90 days would revive some crops and
prevent further damage, said  Lane Broadbent , a vice president at
KIS Futures Inc., a commodities brokerage in  Oklahoma City .  “Wheat is such a hardy plant, it can look pretty bad and
turn into a crop,” said Broadbent, who also co-owns a 400-acre
wheat farm. “It’s not as catastrophic as if it were the middle
of February or March.”  That may be the view of some of the hedge funds and other
large speculators who expect prices to keep dropping. They held
a net-short  position  of 11,899 futures and options contracts by
Dec. 24, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.
That’s from a record net-long position of 80,827 on Aug. 7.  Chicago futures fell for a third consecutive month in
December, dropping 9.9 percent, before trading at $7.575 today.
Prices for hard, red-winter wheat on the Kansas City Board of
Trade slumped 9 percent last month to $8.31 a bushel. The USDA
raised its estimate for global reserves by 1.6 percent from a
month earlier on Dec. 11, after raising its production estimate
and reducing the demand forecast.  The Dust Bowl that ravaged Great Plains states in 1934,
1936 and 1939 was the result of farming practices that left soil
unprotected from sustained drought. High winds carried loose
dirt into the sky, creating storms referred to as “black
blizzards,” according to the National Climatic Data Center.  Million Bushels  U.S. wheat production plunged 30 percent in 1933 and
dropped another 5 percent the following season to a 38-year low
of 526 million bushels, according to USDA data. Farmers are
expected to collect 2.27 billion bushels in the current season.  The USDA probably is underestimating the drought damage to
crops in Argentina and Australia, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
analysts led by New York-based  Jeffrey Currie  wrote in a report
Dec. 5. Global inventories will be smaller than forecast, partly
because wheat remains an affordable alternative to corn for
feeding livestock, they wrote.  Russian production will fall 32 percent to 38 million tons
and Australian output will drop 26 percent to 22 million tons,
according to the USDA. Argentina has said it will curb exports
until the end of January to protect domestic supply.  Tighter Supply  Investors may not realize the potential problems with wheat
supply,  Abdolreza Abbassian , an economist at the  United Nations ’
Food & Agriculture Organization in  Rome , said in an interview
Dec. 6. He cited concern over growing conditions in  Russia , the
U.S. and Europe, and grain harvests in Argentina, where the
worst dry spell in 85 years, combined with unusually wet weather
in coastal areas, damaged wheat crops and delayed corn planting.  While global food prices tracked by the UN were 2.5 percent
lower than a year earlier in November, the group’s cereals index
was 12 percent higher. Cattle futures rose for a fourth year in
2012 and hog prices for a fifth year as feed costs increased.  Third-quarter profit at Mexico City-based  Grupo Bimbo SAB (BIMBOA) ,
the world’s largest breadmaker, fell 82 percent to 369.5 million
pesos ($28.4 million), partly because of costlier wheat. The
company faces “pressure” on raw materials after the “rapid
rise” in prices, Chief Executive Officer Daniel Servitje Montull told analysts on a conference call in October. Futures
averaged the second-highest on record in 2012.  With drought also damaging U.S. corn and soybeans, crop-
insurance claims for 2012 may more than double to a record $28
billion, according to Doane Advisory Services Co., a farm and
food-company researcher in  St. Louis . With so much of the winter
crop already lost, claims may not subside any time soon.  Farmers Hurt  About 30 percent of the winter wheat in central Kansas has
already failed, with further damage likely unless there is rain,
said Rosie Meier, a grain merchandiser at the Great Bend Co-op
in Great Bend, Kansas.  “There’s a lot of wheat that did not come up,” she said.
“Farmers are going to be hurt. Right now, they’re doing OK
because their insurance checks and the higher grain prices kept
them going. If they don’t get production next year, they’ll have
to rely on just the insurance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  