-- Health Exchanges in Republican States Win Obama Approval
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-01-03T19:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/health-exchanges-in-republican-states-win-obama-approval.html
Medical-insurance markets crafted by
four U.S. Republican governors won conditional approval by the
Obama administration as the federal government nudges states
toward full implementation of the landmark health-care overhaul.  Idaho ,  New Mexico ,  Nevada  and  Utah  are set to meet
Affordable Care Act rules for marketplaces where residents can
buy insurance, the U.S. Health and Human Services Department
said in a statement today. The agency also approved plans in
Democratic-led California, Hawaii and  Vermont , bringing to 18
the number of states scheduled to run exchanges on Jan. 1, 2014.  “In all of these states there’s more work to be done to be
ready for open enrollment in October, but we believe they’ve
made significant progress,” said Gary Cohen, director of the
department’s Center for Consumer Information and Insurance
Oversight, on a conference call with reporters.  The exchanges will enable consumers to compare health plans
and are a linchpin of the 2010 law’s efforts to extend coverage
to millions of uninsured Americans. So far, 22 Republican
governors have said they’ll refuse to participate, leaving it to
the federal government to set up markets in those states.  “One way or another there will be an exchange operating in
every state by October 2013,” Cohen said.  Enrollment in the exchanges must begin by Oct. 1 for plans
that will take effect next year. The U.S. government plans to
give states that run their own exchanges a share of about $2
billion to help get them started. In addition to the 18 states,
 Washington , D.C., is building its own exchange.  State Partnerships  As of now, the majority of the 50 states will either have
to let the U.S. run the markets or choose to provide services
such as consumer assistance in a partnership with the federal
government. States have until Feb. 15 to enter a partnership.  Arkansas was approved today to operate a State Partnership
Exchange. The health agency issued additional guidelines today
on how the joint exchanges will operate.  The department said it was taking no action yet on an
application from  Mississippi , where the Republican insurance
commissioner and governor are fighting over whether to go
forward with an exchange.  Cohen said the department has no deadline for granting
final approvals. States that opt out of running their own
exchanges will have another opportunity to apply in November, he
said. If approved, they’d take over in 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  