-- ECB Says Private Lending Shrank for Seventh Month in November
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-01-03T09:04:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/ecb-says-private-lending-shrank-for-seventh-month-in-november.html
Lending to households and companies
in the euro area contracted for a seventh month in November as
the recession damped demand for credit.  Loans to the private sector fell 0.8 percent from a year
earlier after dropping a revised annual 0.8 percent in October,
the Frankfurt-based  European Central Bank  said today. Loans fell
0.1 percent in the month.  The 17-nation euro area entered its second recession in
four years in the third quarter as the sovereign debt crisis
prompted governments to cut spending. Still, business confidence
in  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy, rose for a second month in
December and financial-market sentiment jumped to a seven-month
high, suggesting entrepreneurs and investors believe that the
worst of the crisis may be over.  “Loans to the private sector reflect the real economy and
that will remain fairly weak for most of the year,” said Tobias Blattner, an economist at Daiwa International in London.
“Still, there should be some light at the end of the tunnel at
the end of the year and demand for credit should pick up.”  The ECB lowered its economic forecasts last month,
predicting a contraction of 0.3 percent this year. The revision
and concerns about the negative signal of a rate cut prevented
policy makers from easing borrowing costs in December, three
officials with knowledge of the council’s deliberations said.  The ECB cut its benchmark  interest rate  to a record low of
0.75 percent in July and reduced the rate it pays banks for
overnight deposits to zero. Policy makers will hold their next
meeting on Jan. 10 in  Frankfurt . Economists predict rates to
remain unchanged, according to a separate survey.  The rate of growth in M3  money supply , which the ECB uses
as a gauge of future inflation, dropped to 3.8 percent in
November from 3.9 percent in October, the ECB said today.  M3 grew 3.4 percent in the three months through November
from the same period a year earlier. M3 is the broadest gauge of
money supply and includes cash in circulation, some forms of
savings and money-market holdings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  