-- Egyptians Fret Over Pound as IMF Backs Dollar Sales: Arab Credit
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2013-01-03T14:29:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/egyptians-fret-over-pound-as-imf-backs-dollar-sales-arab-credit.html
Raya Holding Co. (RAYA)  Chief Executive
Officer Medhat Khalil says he is going for the lesser of two
evils by switching his dollar debt into Egyptian pounds.  The information technology company is opting to pay higher
interest rates on the pound rather than bet how far the
currency, which weakened to a record, will drop as the central
bank seeks to protect dwindling foreign reserves. The average
yield on one-year Treasury bills surged 175 basis points last
year to 13.539 percent, compared with 0.14 percent for similar-
maturity U.S. Treasuries, central bank data show.  The pound’s drop accelerated after the central bank began
daily dollar auctions with a limit on how much each bank can buy
amid a political crisis that disrupted International Monetary
Fund talks. While the IMF welcomed the policy, the measures add
costs to average Egyptians and businessmen such as Khalil are
struggling to hedge against what investment bank EFG-Hermes
Holding SAE called a “mini devaluation.”  “We used to have quite a bit of debt in dollars because we
used to get reasonable interest rates, but in the past couple of
weeks we’ve been changing that,” Cairo-based Khalil said by
phone Dec. 30, declining to give details on the loan size.  Power Struggle  The central bank, whose reserves have plunged almost 60
percent to $15 billion since the 2011 uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak , sold about $300 million in four auctions this week. The
pound depreciated 0.5 percent to 6.4211 a dollar, extending its
decline this week to 3.7 percent, at 4 p.m. in Cairo.  Banks and exchange houses have started charging customers
seeking foreign currencies fees of as much as 2 percent for any
sale. The central bank issued new instructions to lower the fees
to between 0.5 percent and 1 percent for individuals and
companies wishing to buy dollars “for non-commercial
purposes,” according to Al Mal newspaper.  “Egypt’s new exchange rate regime has brought greater
transparency and a depreciation of the pound but also highlights
a serious shortage of foreign exchange,” Fitch Ratings said
today. “For the system to work, confidence needs to be restored
quickly, starting with agreement on an IMF” program, it said.
Forward contracts, which provide guidance for investor
expectations, show the currency may weaken 14 percent in 12
months.  Political Crisis  The drop comes amid a power struggle between Islamists and
opponents of President Mohamed Mursi, who pushed a divisive
constitution through a public referendum and delayed the $4.8
billion IMF loan agreement last month after he suspended tax
increases linked to the program.  The political crisis raised government borrowing costs
after Standard & Poor’s lowered Egypt’s credit rating to the
same junk level as Greece and  Pakistan  on Dec. 24. The Finance
Ministry canceled the sale of 6 billion pounds in one-year and
six-month treasury bills Dec. 27 and missed its target in a bond
sale four days later by 60 percent.  The return of international investors hinges in part on the
government’s ability to secure IMF support, said Stephen Charangwa, London-based associate portfolio manager at Silk
Invest Ltd.  “Obviously, the big elephant in the room remains the
outstanding IMF deal, which would be the catalyst for most
investors,” he said by phone yesterday. “The fact that it has
been agreed, then pushed back, left the market in limbo with no
clarity as to when exactly it would be finalized.”  Inflation Impact  Fitch said an agreement with the IMF “is essential for
more substantial and sustainable external support and for
restoring domestic and external confidence in the pound.” While
the currency’s drop will probably have little fiscal impact, the
effect on inflation “will be more pronounced,” it said.  Raya Holding has based this year’s budget on an average
exchange rate of 7 pounds a dollar, assuming the government
secures the IMF loan at the start of the year, Khalil said. Raya
shares surged 3.4 percent yesterday to 5.85 pounds, valuing the
company at 376 million pounds ($59 million.)  The local currency will “never” weaken to the 7-pound
level, Finance Minister Momtaz El-Saieed said yesterday. Prime
Minister Hisham Qandil said the government will invite the IMF
to Cairo this month to resume talks. The Washington-based lender
also welcomed the central bank’s policy to protect reserves to
“ensure that the country will continue to maintain a level of
international reserves that can support” trade and payments,
according to a Jan. 1 statement.  Stabilizing Pound  “The likely signing of the IMF deal in a few weeks could
act as a potential source for stabilizing the pound in 2013,”
Mohamed Abu Basha, an economist at Cairo-based EFG-Hermes, wrote
in a report Dec. 31.  Egypt  missed its target at a sale of treasury bills today
and yields jumped. The government raised 4.5 billion pounds in
one-year and six-month treasury bills, 25 percent below the
amount it initially sought, according to central bank data. The
average yield on one-year notes surged 78 basis points to 14.32
percent, and on six-month debt it rose 80 basis points to 14.10
percent.  “At the moment we are reviewing what levels present the
appropriate buying opportunity,” Charangwa said. “It will be
interesting to see how yields respond across the curve given the
recent flow of mainly credit-negative news.”  Some businessmen such as Sameh El-Meligy, who imports home
appliances, aren’t taking anything for granted.  ‘Black Market’  “I have a shipment coming soon and I won’t sell it to
retailers until I figure out where the pound is going,” he said
by phone yesterday. “I am also thinking about raising prices
between 5 percent to 10 percent on some products.”  Some exchange houses in Cairo turned away customers seeking
foreign currency, citing lack of supply to meet a surge in
demand.  “I can’t believe what’s going on,” Mohamed Youssry, a 25-
year-old doctor, said after visiting three bureaus in an attempt
to buy 20,000 pounds worth of pounds sterling to fund an unpaid
internship in the U.K. “I am sure there will be people on the
black market selling for a better rate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  