-- Elekta Sinks as U.S. Gamma Knife Sales Seen Hit: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 2013-01-03T10:35:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/elekta-sinks-as-u-s-gamma-knife-sales-seen-hit-stockholm-mover.html
Elekta AB (EKTAB)  fell the most in seven
months in  Stockholm  trading after Handelsbanken Capital Markets
said new  U.S. legislation  will cut reimbursement for procedures
using the company’s  Gamma Knife  radiosurgery equipment.  Elekta dropped 5.7 percent to 95 kronor at 10:30 a.m. The
stock sank as much as 6 percent, the biggest intraday decline
since June 5.  The law passed in the U.S. this week to avert income tax
increases for most workers may lead to a 58 percent decline in
Medicare reimbursement for the company’s Gamma Knife, Hans Mahler, an analyst at Handelsbanken in Stockholm, wrote in a
report today.  “Even though the new rates are not yet implemented, we
expect yesterday’s news to temporarily freeze new U.S. GK orders
and potentially postpone planned installations,” Mahler said.
He lowered his rating on the stock to reduce from accumulate.  Mahler cut his estimate for 2014 sales by 3.5 percent and
lowered his estimate of earnings before interest and tax at
Stockholm-based Elekta by 7 percent.  Elekta’s competitors,  Accuray Inc. (ARAY)  and  Varian Medical
Systems Inc. (VAR) , have complained about higher U.S. reimbursement
for Gamma Knife procedures compared with those using a linear
particle accelerator, because they say the clinical outcome is
the same, Mahler wrote. The new U.S. law will erase that
advantage for Gamma Knife and favor Varian’s Edge and Accuray’s
Cyberknife, both of which are cheaper than the Elekta product,
he wrote.  Elekta spokesman Johan Andersson Melbi didn’t immediately
respond to phone messages seeking comment.  Gamma Knife procedures are reimbursed at $7,910, while the
government health plans pay $3,300 for patients treated with the
other machines, Handelsbanken wrote. The new law calls for the
two rates to be the same, meaning a 58 percent drop in Gamma
Knife reimbursement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  