-- Mellanox Falls to Eight-Month Low After Sales Forecast Cu
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f   a n d   R o b e r t   L a k i n
-- 2013-01-03T22:43:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/mellanox-falls-to-9-month-low-in-tel-aviv-on-4q-forecast.html
Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX)  tumbled to
the lowest level since April in  New York  after the Israeli
developer of data-management technology cut its fourth-quarter
revenue forecast on weaker demand and a product glitch.  Shares sank 17 percent to $50.7 at the close of trading in
New York on volume that was seven times the stock’s three-month
daily average, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Mellanox had the
second-steepest decline on the  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN) 
of the largest U.S.-traded Israeli stocks, which fell 2.7
percent. Mellanox dropped 17 percent in Tel Aviv to 190.3
shekels, or the equivalent of $50.76.  Mellanox, based in Yokneam Elit,  Israel , said in a
statement released after U.S. markets closed yesterday that
sales for the last three months of 2012 would be $119 million to
$121 million, below guidance issued in October for revenue of
$145 million to $150 million. Chief Executive Officer Eyal Waldman said in a conference call with analysts that the
shortfall was due to weaker demand and a technical issue related
to cabling for Mellanox’s FDR 56Gb/s InfiniBand product.  “The demand issue is playing a large part here,”  Shebly Seyrafi , an analyst at FBN Securities Inc. who cut his rating on
Mellanox to sector perform from outperform today, said by phone
in New York. “It’s becoming clear that this window for 2013
isn’t going to be as robust as we we’re hoping for.”  ‘Significant Competition’  Mellanox was the biggest decliner on the Bloomberg Israel-
US gauge last quarter, dropping 42 percent on concern sales of
its products used to transfer and store data will slow as  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  introduces similar technology. The stock fell 22 percent
on Oct. 18 after the fourth-quarter revenue forecast issued that
day missed the mean of 13 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The issue for investors is what’s going to happen in 2014
when Mellanox faces more significant competition from Intel,”
Seyrafi said.  The technical problem with InfiniBand “is not expected to
impact revenue in the future,” Waldman said today.  Santa Clara, California-based Intel acquired  QLogic Corp. (QLGC) ’s
InfiniBand business on Feb. 29 to help the world’s largest
semiconductor maker compete with Mellanox. The InfiniBand
technology is used to transfer and store data in high-end
computing and data centers.  “Until this profit warning, the company had consistently
met its guidance,”  Joseph Wolf , a Tel Aviv-based analyst at
Barclays Plc, wrote today in an e-mail.  UBS AG reduced its 12-month price target on Mellanox to $56
from $70.  Adjusted gross margin in the fourth quarter will still be
between 68.5 percent and 69.5 percent, Waldman said on the call.
Earnings results are scheduled to be released Jan. 23, Mellanox
said in a statement yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Lakin in  Tel Aviv  at 
 rlakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  