-- Embraer’s Delta Order Loss Signals New Margins Pressure
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-01-03T21:23:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/embraer-s-delta-order-seen-signaling-new-margin-pressure.html
Embraer SA (EMBR3) ’s surprise loss of a $1.85
billion regional-jet order from  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  signals the
planemaker needs to sweeten incentives such as buyback
guarantees and maintenance deals to fend off  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)   AMR Corp.’s American Airlines and  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL)  revived the prospect of U.S. sales for Embraer by
winning new labor contracts last month that would allow their
commuter carriers to fly larger planes, according to
Philadelphia-based Drexel & Hamilton LLC.  Landing those sales would be a boost for Embraer after
Bombardier’s Dec. 6 deal with Delta, the only big U.S. carrier
ordering regional planes last year. Sao Jose dos Campos, Brazil-
based Embraer fell 5.7 percent, third-most in the benchmark
Bovespa index, in the seven trading days after Delta opted for
Bombardier models over Embraer’s E-jets line.  “Each manufacturer will become more creative in ways to
attract business,” said Brian Foley, a former marketing
director at Dassault SA’s Falcon business-jet unit who is now an
aviation consultant. “I’m sure whatever happened between
Embraer and Delta was a learning experience.”  North America -- where United, Delta and  American (AAMRQ)  are the
three biggest airlines -- will be the top regional-jet market in
the 20 years ending in 2031, according to an Embraer forecast.
The company projects global demand for 6,795 planes, with 32
percent in North America, at a list value of $315 billion.  Market Duopoly  Embraer and Montreal-based Bombardier’s regional-jet
dominance is so pronounced that winning new business can pivot
on planemaker tactics such as offering long-term maintenance or
pledging to repurchase used planes, Foley said.  “The cost equation is much more complicated than just the
purchase price,” said Foley, who runs Brian Foley Associates in
 Sparta , New Jersey. “With that kind of duopoly, it’s just a
matter of time for one to take some sales from the other.”  Embraer’s regional jets carry catalog prices from $37.8
million to $47.8 million with a standard setup, and airlines
typically negotiate discounts.  The Brazilian planemaker’s press office declined to comment
about its order prospects for this year. Chief Executive Officer
Frederico Pinheiro Fleury Curado said on an Oct. 24 conference
call he expected to “achieve sales in the next few months.”  The  shares  have rebounded since their post-Delta slide.
They closed yesterday at 14.73 reais, the highest since May 23,
before a 1.2 percent drop today to 14.56 reais. That price was
5.7 times estimated 2013 earnings, compared with a multiple of
8.1 for Bombardier, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ebitda Margin  Embraer reported a third-quarter margin for earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of 11.8 percent.
Ebitda will be 11.5 percent for all of 2012, before “gradually
increasing to 12.5 percent by 2014,” Marcus Fernandes, a
Standard & Poor’s credit analyst in Sao Paulo, said in a Dec. 26
report.  Demand could be in the “hundreds” of planes in future
orders tied to United and AMR, said Raymond Neidl, an
independent aviation analyst based in  Connecticut .  Interest in regional jets is increasing because new, larger
versions can handle longer routes more efficiently, Neidl said
in a phone interview. U.S. carriers are shifting to planes with
76 seats or more from Embraer and Bombardier models with as few
as 37 seats.  “The Embraer products seem to meet their needs,” Neidl
said. “Long-term, I think they’ve got the right product, right
time, right place, right cost.”  Order Prospects  United and AMR, which is restructuring in bankruptcy,
aren’t discussing specifics of their fleet plans, spokesmen said
yesterday. Pilots at both companies ratified contracts last
month giving the airlines the right to fly larger regional
planes at their commuter partners, where labor costs are lower.  Embraer planes accounted for 198 of the 245 regional jets
in AMR’s American Eagle fleet as of Sept. 30, according to the
airline’s latest filing. Embraer had 307 jets in service at
regional partners for United through July, compared with 190 for
Bombardier, a filing from the carrier showed.  CEO Curado told analysts in October that there was
“growing activity” building toward possible sales to U.S.
airlines.  “Probably 2013 there will be a much more intense activity
and maybe -- I’ll say probably -- some decisions happening in
that regard,” Curado said on the call. He said at the
Farnborough air show in  England  in July that Embraer was
counting on U.S. orders to make up for a demand slump in  Europe .  Buy Rating  Peter Skibitski, a Drexel Hamilton analyst, said in a Dec.
27 report that he is keeping his buy rating on Embraer, citing
reasons that included anticipated United and American orders and
expectations for growth in the business-jet and defense
segments. Embraer had firm  orders  of $12.4 billion through the
third quarter, while Bombardier’s backlog was $26.1 billion.  The Brazilian company is spending about $2 billion to
reconfigure its E-170 and E-190 jets with a new engine and new
wings by 2018.  Embraer also is awaiting a decision that may come early
this year on a U.S. military contract for light-attack aircraft,
after losing an initial order following an appeal from a U.S.
rival, and has invested in business jets at a time when
competitors have pulled back.  Regional jets are still “a big part of the business and
they have to continually improve the business because airlines
demand it and competitors are doing so,” said Foley, the
consultant. “It’s a pretty small universe. While it wasn’t
their turn this time, next time it probably will be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  