-- Emerging Stocks Post Longest Rally in 14 Months After China Data
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-01-03T22:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/emerging-stocks-post-longest-rally-in-14-months-after-china-data.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
ninth day, the longest stretch of gains in more than 14 months,
as data showing expansion in Chinese  service industries  and U.S.
consumer sentiment bolstered confidence in the global economy.  China International Marine Containers Group Co. Ltd. (2039) , the
world’s biggest container maker, surged 15 percent, while  Shimao
Property Holdings Ltd. (813)  jumped the most in 13 months in Hong Kong
as financial companies led gains on the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index.  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4)  climbed to a record in  Sao Paulo  as
Brazil’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  Index entered a bull market.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) 
fell in  Seoul  on bets a stronger won may weigh on profits.  The developing-nations gauge added 0.4 percent to 1,082.68
in  New York  after rising to a 10-month high yesterday and
entering a bull market.  China ’s services industries grew at the
fastest pace in four months in December, boosting prospects the
nation’s CSI 300 Index will also rally to a  bull market  when it
resumes trading tomorrow. In the U.S., improving consumer
sentiment and data showing companies added more workers than
projected signaled the world’s largest economy picked up.  “There’s been an incredible turnaround in China sentiment
and this data helps that,” John-Paul Smith, an emerging market
strategist at Deutsche Bank AG, said by phone from  London  today.
“People’s confidence toward the Chinese economy is almost as
high as its ever been.”  ‘Steady Path’  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has risen 23 percent from a
June 4  low . A bull market is defined by a rally of 20 percent or
more from a low.  “Economic indicators in China and the U.S. are raising
optimism that the global economy is on a steady path of
recovery,” said Budsares Yunniyom, a  fund manager  at Asset Plus
Fund Management Co. in Bangkok, which oversees about $800
million of assets. “That may support further gains in emerging-
market equities as most investors are willing to raise holdings
in risky assets.”  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, fell 0.7
percent to $44.90. The  Vanguard MSCI Emerging Markets ETF (VWO)   slid
0.6 percent to $45.20. The  Chicago Board Options Exchange
Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options
prices on the fund and expectations of price swings, dropped 4.9
percent to 18.78, a record low.  Brazil’s Bovespa climbed 1.2 percent, extending its advance
to 21 percent from a June 5 bear market low.  Banco Bradesco ,
Brazil’s second-biggest bank by market value, jumped 5.9
percent, leading gains in Sao Paulo.  Petrobras, as state-owned oil producer  Petroleo Brasileiro
SA (PETR4)  is known, climbed 3.6 percent after confirming “high
potential of oil flow” at a Carcara well and declaring that two
areas in Brazil’s Campos Basin have traces of good-quality oil.  Emerging Asia  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese companies 
listed in  Hong Kong  rose 0.8 percent to its highest level since
August 2011. The BSE India Sensitive Index climbed 0.3 percent
to the highest level in two years. Markets in Shanghai and
Moscow were closed today.  The Jakarta Composite Index rose 1.2 percent to a record
high led by food exporter and importer  PT Cahaya Kalbar Tbk (CEKA)  with
a 25 percent gain. The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  rallied
1.2 percent, the biggest advance among Asian benchmark gauges.
South Korea’s  Kospi index  dropped 0.6 percent.  The Czech PX Index slipped 0.3 percent, the first decline
in three days. Turkey’s ISE National 100 Index rose 0.5 percent
and Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  added 0.9 percent.  Industrials Advance  The Philippine peso reached its strongest level since March
2008 against the U.S. currency and Taiwan’s dollar rose to the
highest level since Nov. 12. The Polish zloty fell 0.7 percent
versus the euro, leading declines in  emerging markets , after the
government failed to sell the maximum amount of bonds offered at
an auction today.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Financials Index rose 0.9
percent, making it the best performer among 10 industry groups,
while utility shares lost 0.1 percent. The broader emerging
markets index has climbed 7.4 percent in the past month,
outpacing a 3.8 percent increase by the  MSCI World Index. (MXWO)  The
emerging-markets index trades at 11 times estimated earnings,
compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of 13.1, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s non-manufacturing purchasing managers’ index rose
to 56.1 in December from 55.6 in November, the National Bureau
of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing
said today. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  OCI Gains  Shimao Property, a developer that gets all its  revenue from
China , surged 9.6 percent in Hong Kong to lead gains among
financial companies. The company’s contract sales in December
jumped 70 percent from a year earlier.  Ruentex Development Co.
Ltd. (9945)  climbed 6.9 percent to a record in Taipei. The company has
stakes in China’s largest hypermarket operator.  China International Marine Containers rallied for a fifth
day, surging 15 percent to a record high as industrials
companies gained 0.5 percent.  OCI Co. Ltd. (010060) , South Korea’s biggest maker of polysilicon
used in solar panels, jumped 6.9 percent in Seoul, its third day
of gains. Prices of polysilicon climbed to $15.38 per kilo, its
first weekly increase in 11 months, from $15.35, SK Securities
Co. said in a report today, citing data from research firm PV
Insights.  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800) , a maker of solar-panel
wafers, surged 6.7 percent in Hong Kong.  Hyundai Motor, South Korea’s biggest automaker, fell 4.6
percent in Seoul, the most in two months on speculation a
stronger won may weigh on profits. The Korean won strengthened
to a 16-month high today, and a stronger currency hurts
exporters because it cuts the value of repatriated earnings.
Hyundai Glovis Co. Ltd., the logistics unit of Hyundai Motor
Group, was the worst performer on the emerging markets gauge,
falling 6.6 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries narrowed 10 basis points, or 0.1
percentage point, to 244, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  