-- EU to Examine Bank Rules as Germany Limits Capital Flows
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 2013-01-03T12:24:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/eu-to-examine-bank-rules-as-germany-limits-capital-flows.html
The European Union is examining
whether national banking regulators are hindering the free
movement of capital after  Germany  limited the flow of funds from
units of foreign lenders in the country to their parents.  “We’re looking at what various different supervisors have
been doing, including what’s being done in Germany,” Stefaan De Rynck, spokesman for EU Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier , told reporters in Brussels today. “There is a
substantive issue, which is free movement and completion of the
single market.”  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis has eroded cross-border
lending to clients and prompted depositors to transfer funds to
markets that are considered safe within the 17-member euro area.
German financial regulator BaFin has curtailed the amount of
funds foreign banks can pull out of the country on concern that
it may leave their local units under capitalized.  The European Commission and London-based European Banking
Authority are conducting the examination, De Rynck said. The EBA
can play a “mediating role” in the event of disagreements
between national regulators, he said.  “There’s a procedural issue as well -- the requirement
that different national supervisors have to cooperate,” De
Rynck said. “We have different national supervisors here who
are obliged to cooperate with each other if they want to adopt
certain measures.”  Sven Gebauer, a spokesman for Bonn-based BaFin, declined to
comment on De Rynck’s comments when contacted by phone today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  