-- Ex-Citadel Securities Head Gets Hong Kong License for Fund
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-01-03T02:31:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/ex-citadel-securities-head-gets-hong-kong-license-for-fund.html
Patrik Edsparr, the former head of
Citadel LLC’s securities unit, received a license to start an
 asset management company , according to  information  posted on the
 Hong Kong  Securities and Futures Commission’s Web site.  Tor Investment Management (Hong Kong) Ltd.’s two other
responsible officers are Christopher Mikosh, formerly a managing
director of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Asian Special Situations
Group, and James Sweeney, previously chief executive officer of
Asian hedge fund Boyer Allan Investment Management LLP,
according to the information. Mikosh didn’t immediately reply to
an e-mail seeking comment, while Sweeney didn’t answer a call
made to his mobile phone today.  Tor is one of the  hedge funds  being set up to take
advantage of opportunities in credit market as European banks
scale back lending and sell assets to withstand writedowns
following the region’s debt crisis, and to comply with new
regulatory requirements, two people with knowledge of their plan
told Bloomberg in July. The license was dated Dec. 12, according
to the information on the SFC’s website.  Swedish-born Edsparr joined Citadel as global head of fixed
income and head of the firm’s European business in July 2008. He
was ousted as CEO of Citadel Securities in May 2010 after
disagreement with the management team and Citadel founder  Ken
Griffin  on strategy and culture, Griffin said in a letter to
employees at the time.  Edsparr, who has degrees in Russian, mathematics, business
and finance, previously worked at JPMorgan Chase & Co., where he
ran businesses including foreign exchange, securitized products
and principal investments. He joined the New York-based bank in
1996 and ran the bank’s fixed-income business as well as markets
including foreign exchange and securitized products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  