-- Ex-Deutsche Bank Employee Parse Loses Bid for New Trial
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-01-03T20:33:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/ex-deutsche-bank-employee-david-parse-loses-bid-for-new-trial.html
Former  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  employee
David Parse, convicted in 2011 of helping run an illegal tax-
shelter scheme, was denied a new trial on the ground that his
lawyers didn’t properly represent him.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley in  Manhattan  granted a
new trial for Parse’s three co-defendants in June, after a juror
disclosed she had lied about her past as an alcoholic and a
suspended attorney. Parse worked as an accountant for Deutsche
Bank’s Alex. Brown unit.  Pauley let Parse’s conviction stand, ruling that his
lawyers, from the New York firm Brune & Richard LLP, failed to
reveal information they had about the juror, Catherine Conrad,
whom the judge called a “pathological liar.”  The judge said in a ruling issued today that before jury
deliberations began in the case, Parse’s defense team was
suspicious that Conrad was a suspended lawyer yet didn’t
investigate further. The judge said the defense lawyers made a
“strategic decision” to allow Conrad, as Juror No. 1, onto the
panel and that Parse can’t now claim their work was ineffective.  “Parse’s attorneys doubled down on their strategic
decision when they filed a misleading motion for a new trial,”
Pauley said today. “Brune & Richard’s serial disclosures led
this court to conclude that Brune & Richard sought to prevent
discovery of the strategic decision they made to keep an
imposter on the jury.”  Lawyers’ Actions  Pauley also said today that Parse didn’t fare worse at his
trial as a result of his lawyers’ actions, noting that evidence
showed that Parse participated in backdating of tax shelter
transactions and concluding that he “would have been convicted
even if his counsel behaved unimpeachably.”  Parse was convicted in May 2011 along with Paul Daugerdas,
a former lawyer at the defunct law firm Jenkens & Gilchrist, and
two others in a 10-year tax shelter scheme that generated more
than $1 billion in phony losses.  The defendants claimed Conrad wouldn’t have been permitted
to serve on the jury if she had told the truth about her
background. Her presence on the panel deprived them of a fair
trial, they said.  Paul Shechtman, a new lawyer for Parse, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message left at his office seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. Daugerdas, 09-cr-0581, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  