-- FCC Approves Liberty Media Control of Sirius XM Licenses
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-01-03T21:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/fcc-approves-liberty-media-control-of-sirius-xm-licenses-1-.html
John Malone’s Liberty Media Corp. won
U.S. regulatory approval to assume broadcast licenses from
 Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI) , a step needed for Liberty to finish its
takeover of the satellite radio provider.  The Federal Communications Commission, in a posting today
on its website, said it approved the transfer of control of
licenses to Liberty, which in March told the agency it was
seeking control of New York-based Sirius.  Sirius uses satellites licensed by the FCC, and approval by
the agency is a prerequisite for asserting control, Liberty has
said.  Today’s approval by the FCC is a step in the transition
from Mel Karmazin, 69, who took over at Sirius in 2004 after
quitting as president of  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  Four years later, he guided
Sirius to its merger with XM Satellite Radio, combining the two
pay-radio providers just before a slump in U.S. auto sales cut
demand for pre-installed radios in cars.  After clashing with Malone, Karmazin in October said he
would quit as chief executive officer and Sirius last month
named James E. Meyer as interim chief while it seeks a
replacement.  Malone, 71, helped Sirius avoid bankruptcy in 2009, lending
the company $530 million. That deal earned Liberty billions,
gave it a 40 percent stake in Sirius and put Malone on a path to
control.  Taking Control  Liberty in filings said it will convert preferred
securities and buy enough shares to own more than 50 percent of
Sirius common stock within 60 days of gaining approval for the
license transfers, the FCC said in today’s order.  Malone said in July he planned to spin off Sirius after
gaining control of the company.  “There is no question eventually Sirius will be an
independent company,” he said. “The question is, in what time
frame and in what circumstances?”  Sirius has 23.4 million subscribers and became a profitable
company in 2010 after more than a decade of losses. It has
satellite radios installed in about two-thirds of all new
automobiles.  Liberty Media rose 5 cents to $119.84 at the close in New
York. Sirius rose 6 cents, or 2 percent, to $3.08.  Patrick Reilly, a Sirius spokesman, and Courtnee Ulrich, a
spokeswoman for Englewood, Colorado-based Liberty, didn’t
immediately respond to e-mails and telephone calls.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  