-- Fiat Exercising Options to Increase Chrysler Stake to 65%
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-01-03T19:55:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/fiat-exercises-options-to-increase-chrysler-stake-to-65-.html
  Fiat SpA (F) , the Italian carmaker that
controls Chrysler Group LLC, plans to boost its stake in the
U.S. company to 65 percent by exercising its option to purchase
an additional 3.3 percent from the United Auto Workers’ retiree
health-care fund.  Fiat calculated it has to pay $198 million for the second
tranche of the voluntary employees beneficiary association’s
holding based on “a market multiple” applied to Chrysler
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
according to a statement.  Fiat, which in July exercised its option to purchase a
first 3.3 percent tranche of the remaining VEBA holding, in
September asked a U.S. court to confirm the price it has to pay
to increase its controlling stake in the Auburn Hills, Michigan-
based carmaker after failing to reach an agreement with the
VEBA, which owns 41.5 percent of the company. Turin, Italy-owned
Fiat owns the rest.  Chief Executive Officer Sergio Marchionne has said Fiat’s
ability to complete a full merger with Chrysler is limited by a
turnaround plan for Fiat announced in October. The 60-year-old
executive, who leads both automakers, has said Fiat still plans
to use call options that were part of Chrysler’s 2009 bankruptcy
and now are in dispute.  Fiat must pay at least $342 million to boost its ownership
stake to almost 62 percent, the U.S. automaker’s minority
shareholder said in a court filing in November. The amount
sought by VEBA is 145 percent more than the Italian carmaker
said the holding should be worth.  Fiat said today it expects a determination by the court
“within the next several months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  