-- France to Re-Introduce Millionaires Tax in 2014, Belkacem Says
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-01-03T13:52:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/france-to-re-introduce-millionaires-tax-in-2014-belkacem-says.html
French President Francois Hollande’s
government plans to re-introduce a millionaires’ tax of 75
percent next year, addressing objections by the constitutional
court that struck down the levy last week.  Hollande told a cabinet meeting today that he wants the tax
in next year’s budget, though the exact adjustments and how many
years it will last haven’t been decided, government spokeswoman
Najat Vallaud-Belkacem said in a press conference.  The surcharge on incomes over 1 million euros ($1.3
million), one of Hollande’s campaign promises, was rejected by
the country’s top judges on Dec. 29 because it applied to
individuals and not households. As a result, two households with
the same total income could end up paying different rates,
contravening equal-tax treatment, the Paris-based court said.  “The tax remains a part of the government’s aim of
reviving  France  with justice,” Vallaud-Belkacem said.  The millionaires’ tax has become a focal point of
discontent among entrepreneurs and well-paid French citizens,
some of whom have quit French shores as a result. Actor Gerard Depardieu, France’s highest-profile tax exile, has been engaged
in a war of words with the government over his decision to move
to a Belgian town just across the border. Billionaire  Bernard Arnault , chief executive officer of  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA (MC) , filed an application for Belgian nationality in
September.  Russian President Vladimir Putin signed an order today
granting Depardieu Russian citizenship, according to a statement
posted on the Kremlin website. A spokeswoman for the actor
declined to comment as did Vallaud-Belkacem.  The Dec. 29 ruling also lowered maximum tax rates on stock
options, a form of retirement benefit, and bearer bonds.
Overall, it cut about 500 million euros from the government’s
expected receipts in 2013, Vallaud-Belkacem said, rejecting
reports in some French newspapers that lost revenue could be as
much as 1 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  