-- FTC Is Right to Spurn Regulation of Google
-- B y   N e a l   K a t y a l   a n d   J .   R o b e r t   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2013-01-03T23:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/ftc-is-right-to-spurn-regulation-of-google.html
The Federal Trade Commission has
reached a  landmark resolution  of its long investigation into
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s business practices.  The FTC’s settlement -- to drop its antitrust inquiry after
the company agreed to make voluntary commitments to change its
practices -- has provoked criticism that Google is getting off
easy. These objections are wrongly placed. The FTC’s approach to
resolving the Google case is innovative and pro-consumer. It
skillfully uses the commission’s  enforcement powers  in a manner
geared to fast action, flexible thinking and enforceable
commitments, rather than to burdensome litigation and sclerotic
consent orders. (We have represented Google, but not in this
case.)  Since 1998, Google has gone from a fledgling startup --
built around an insight into how best to organize the vast
quantities of information on the Internet -- to a successful
public company that is worth more than  $230 billion  and employs
at least 30,000 people.  Google didn’t rest complacently on its success as a search
engine; it reinvented itself many times over, giving us Gmail,
Google Calendar and Google Docs, even as it has improved and
refined its search technology. Users value the product Google
offers: The search engine answers almost 5 billion  queries  a
day.  Protect Innovation  The company’s success inevitably attracted the attention of
regulators. A business that must change rapidly and innovate
constantly in a field of quick and agile competitors presents a
challenge. Old regulatory tools must be adapted to the fast-
moving realities of the technology industry.  The FTC has done precisely that. Critics, however, have
seized on the supposed voluntary nature of the arrangement, and
argued that the commission should have insisted on a formal
consent order or decree.  A lot was at stake in that legalese. A consent order would
have required the FTC or a federal judge to monitor changes that
Google wants to make to its  business . Just imagine what a
consent decree would have done to the dizzying speed with which
the company has innovated over the past decade -- and what it
could have done to new technologies, from cars that drive
themselves to virtual-reality displays mounted on eyeglasses.
The last thing consumers and the  U.S. economy  needed was an
order from the federal government freezing such a technology
innovator in place.  This is particularly so because consent orders can last for
decades. Even the most clairvoyant commissioner couldn’t have
designed a consent decree in 1992 that could intelligently
regulate the technology industry now. Back in the age of the
dial-up Internet and floppy disks, it would have been impossible
to have foreseen the immense changes on the horizon -- Wi-Fi,
 Facebook , Google, YouTube and  Twitter , to name just a few. There
is no reason to think we are better prophets now.  Furthermore, consent orders often generate a flood of
follow-up lawsuits by competitors and plaintiffs’ lawyers, even
when the order has no admission of liability or evidentiary
value in the subsequent suit. For example, in 2010, a few months
after Transitions Optical Inc., which makes eyeglasses with sun-
activated tints, entered into a consent order with the FTC, a
total of 16 class-action lawsuits were filed against the company
across the country. Insisting on a consent order in Google’s
case could have unnecessarily subjected it to years of
burdensome litigation. Google should be spending its resources
on  innovations  that benefit us all, not on defending itself
against such lawsuits.  Commitments Enforced  One argument raised against the idea of voluntary
commitments by Google was the supposed threat that the company
would simply renege on its commitments to the FTC. But the
resolution allows the agency to enforce Google’s public
commitments under  Section 5  of the Federal Trade Commission Act,
which is used to hold companies accountable for their statements
to the public, such as their advertising claims and privacy
policies. If Google breaks its promises, it will surely face an
enforcement action by the FTC.  Moreover, if Google reneges, it will wind up back in the
very same place it is now -- with an investigation. And the FTC
would have every option available to it at that point; the
commission gives up not even a single arrow in its quiver as a
result of this deal. It has used voluntary commitments rather
than formal orders to conclude investigations before; for
example, in 2001 it declined to take action against the merger
of  General Mills Inc. (GIS)  and Pillsbury Co. based on voluntary
commitments the parties made.  The only beneficiaries of an onerous consent decree would
have been plaintiffs’ lawyers and competitors intent on winning
business advantage by slowing Google’s innovations. As the
 Supreme Court  has repeated many times, however, antitrust law is
meant to protect competition, not competitors. The FTC’s
innovative approach is the essence of smart regulatory
intervention in a dynamic industry and is faithful to the
commission’s ultimate purpose.  (Neal Katyal was acting solicitor general of the U.S. from
May 2010 to June 2011. J. Robert Robertson is a former chief
trial counsel at the Federal Trade Commission. They are partners
at  Hogan Lovells , where they serve as outside counsel to Google.
The opinions expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers of this article:
 Neal Katyal  at  neal.katyal@hoganlovells.com  and J. Robert
Robertson at  robby.robertson@hoganlovells.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 