-- Garanti Rising to Record ’Knocks Out’ Exotic Short-Sellers
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-01-03T12:39:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/garanti-rising-to-record-knocks-out-exotic-short-sellers.html
Investors who bet that shares in
 Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  would decline using an exotic trading
instrument called a “turbo certificate” suffered losses today
as it led the  stock exchange  to a new record.  A turbo certificate on Garanti issued by  Erste Group Bank
AG (EBS) , with Erste’s Istanbul unit serving as market maker, was
“knocked out” today, according to a filing with the Istanbul
Stock Exchange. The certificate hit a preset barrier price of
9.75 liras as Garanti, the bank that’s Turkey’s most valuable
company by market value, rose to an intraday record of 9.8 liras
at 9:59 a.m. in Istanbul.  “Everybody who is shorting Garanti is at a loss,” Erkan Kilimci, chief executive officer of Istanbul-based Erste
Securities, said in a phone interview today. An investor who
purchased the certificate on the day of issue on Nov. 8 under
the EGAPA ticker would have lost 85 percent of the investment,
as Garanti stock rose 15 percent in the period, Kilimci said.  The barrier serves as a stop-loss in turbo certificates.
Erste defines the instruments as “securitized derivatives that
are based on the performance of an underlying asset or gauge.”
When the price of a security hits the barrier, the trade is
immediately closed, according to a presentation by Erste, which
says it’s the sole issuer of such products in  Turkey .  Investors betting on price volatility may prefer to invest
in warrants, while those who bet on the direction of equities or
gauges choose turbo certificates, Kilimci said. Some investors
are using them to bet on a correction in Turkish equities, he
said.  Turkish stocks gained 53 percent last year after a 22
percent decline in 2011. Their dollar-based gain of 61 percent
in 2012 was the world’s second-best among major indexes behind
the main equity gauge in  Venezuela .  Garanti rose 0.4 percent to 9.68 liras at 2:37 p.m. in
Istanbul today, bringing its two-day gain to 4.5 percent. The
main ISE 100 index also rose 0.4 percent to 79,928.75 after
earlier breaking the 80,000 threshold for the first time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  