-- German Stocks Decline as Focus Shifts to U.S. Deficit
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-01-03T09:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/german-stocks-decline-as-focus-shifts-to-u-s-deficit.html
German stocks retreated from a five-
year high as investors shifted focus from the U.S. budget deal
averting most scheduled tax increases to upcoming negotiations
on lowering the nation’s deficit.  K+S AG (SDF) , Europe’s largest potash maker, lost 3.1 percent
after Citigroup AG lowered its recommendation on the stock.
Fresenius Medical Care AG fell 0.9 percent.  Infineon
Technologies AG (IFX)  rose 1.2 percent.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  declined 0.2 percent to 7,765.47 at 10:35
a.m. in Frankfurt. The measure rallied 29 percent in 2012, its
best annual performance since 2003, as the  European Central Bank 
and the  Federal Reserve  expanded asset purchases. The broader
 HDAX Index (HDAX)  dropped 0.1 percent today.  “When you look at the actual details of the deal struck,
it just doesn’t look as if we’re doing anything more than a
short-term kicking of the can down the road,” Stewart Richardson, chief investment officer at RMG Wealth Management
LLP said on “On the Move” with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg
Television.  German stocks rose the most in  six weeks  yesterday after
the  U.S. Congress  agreed a budget bill that avoids most
scheduled tax increases threatening a recovery in the world’s
largest economy. Still, the package won’t reduce deficits enough
to avoid a sovereign-rating downgrade, Moody’s Investors Service
said yesterday.  Republicans are planning to use the need to raise the
nation’s $16.4 trillion debt ceiling to try to force President
 Barack Obama  to accept spending cuts. Congress must act as early
as mid-February to prevent a default.  Fraught Months  “The next several months are going to be potentially
fraught in terms of the spending cuts negotiations, the debt
ceiling, and it’s just the cold reality of the day that there is
a lot of work to be done,” said Richardson.  Unemployment in Europe’s largest economy increased less
than economists forecast in December. The number of people out
of work rose a seasonally adjusted 3,000 to 2.942 million, the
Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency said today. Economists
predicted an increase of 10,000, the median of 19 estimates in a
 Bloomberg News survey  showed. The  adjusted jobless rate  held
steady at 6.9 percent, close to a two-decade low.  K+S dropped 3.1 percent to 34.05 euros. Citigroup cut its
recommendation on the shares to neutral from buy after potash
producers agreed to sell to China’s Sinofert Holdings Ltd. at a
price that’s $70 a ton below a March agreement.  Fresenius Medical Care, the world’s biggest supplier of
 kidney dialysis , lost 0.9 percent to 51.69 euros.  Infineon, Europe’s second-biggest semiconductor maker,
climbed 1.2 percent to 6.47 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Soughley at 
 asoughley@bloomberg.net  