-- Gold-Loan Companies Surge on Central Bank Report: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   A m e y a   K a r v e   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-01-03T06:57:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/gold-loan-companies-surge-on-central-bank-report-mumbai-mover.html
Manappuram Finance Ltd. (MGFL)  surged the
most in more than two years and  Muthoot Finance Ltd. (MUTH)  rallied to
a record after a central bank report eased uncertainty about
Indian gold-loan companies’ business.  Asset quality, bad loans, capital adequacy and borrowing
sources of these companies aren’t a cause for concern, a panel
set up by the  Reserve Bank  of India said in a report released
after markets closed yesterday. Manappuram soared by the 20
percent limit, the steepest climb since August 2010, to 40.60
rupees at 12:14 p.m. in Mumbai. Muthoot jumped 16 percent to a
record 242.15 rupees.  “The report provides legal status to the gold loan
business,” Espirito Santo analysts Santosh Singh and Nidhesh Jain wrote in a report today. The panel report “removes the
regulator uncertainty and overhang.” The analysts maintained
their Nov. 26 recommendation to buy Manappuram shares with a
target of 45 rupees. Muthoot isn’t tracked by the brokerage.  Assets at non-bank lenders such as Manappuram and Muthoot
have increased 20 percent annually for the past five years to
$670 billion, according to a November  report  by the Basel,
Switzerland-based Financial Stability Board. That makes India
the world’s fastest-growing market after  Indonesia  for lending
outside the banking system, according to the report. It also
poses risks for a country where 65 percent of the population and
92 percent of small businesses don’t have access to banks,  World
Bank  and government data show.  “The report clears all negative perceptions that lending
against gold is not a socially useful function,” Oommen K Mammen, chief financial officer of Muthoot Finance, said in a
phone interview. “The report saying that there is no systemic
risk due to the gold-loan business is the biggest takeaway for
us.”  The report comes even as the Indian government plans to
increase taxes on gold imports to tackle the nation’s record
current-account deficit, 80 percent of which is due to overseas
purchases of the metal, according to the central bank.  India  is the world’s largest buyer of the precious metal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ameya Karve in Mumbai at 
 akarve@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  