-- Gross Says Government Financing Schemes Such as QE End Badly
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-01-03T13:56:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/gross-says-government-financing-schemes-such-as-qe-end-badly.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said
investors should be alert to the longer-term inflationary risks
of stimulus programs such as quantitative easing.  “Ultimately, government financing schemes such as today’s
QE’s or England’s early 1700s South Seas Bubble end badly,”
Gross wrote in his monthly investment  outlook  released today on
the  Newport Beach , California-based company’s website.  The risk of the combined $6 trillion expansion of the
balance sheets of the world’s six largest central banks through
debt-buying programs since the beginning of 2009 “comes in the
form of inflation and devaluation of currencies either relative
to each other, or to  commodities  in less limitless supply such
as oil or gold,” Gross said.  Investors should avoid longer-maturity debt, as
inflationary effects of  Federal Reserve ’s actions are likely to
be felt many years in the future, and focus on short to
intermediate securities that are supported by central bank
policies, Gross said. Central banks’ debt purchases though
initially supportive of higher-risk assets, such as stocks, may
ultimately harm them as quantitative easing proves
“increasingly ineffective” with regards to bolstering the real
economy, he wrote.  The Fed this month added $45 billion of  Treasury securities 
to the $40 billion in mortgage debt it has been buying it its
third round of quantitative easing. The central bank also last
month for the first time linked the outlook for its main
 interest rate  to unemployment and inflation targets.  Fed Targets  The concern that Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s policies
threaten  price stability  has led some Republicans over the last
year to seek a change in the Federal Reserve Act that would
restrict the Fed’s focus solely to that goal, stripping the
central bank of its jobs mandate.  The Fed has kept its benchmark  interest rate  close to zero
since December 2008. The central bank said last month the rate
would stay low “at least as long” as unemployment remains
above 6.5 percent and inflation projections are for no more than
2.5 percent.  Growth “now is to be measured each and every employment
Friday via an unemployment rate thermostat set at 6.5 percent,”
Gross wrote in the note. “We at Pimco would not argue with that
objective. Yet we would caution as Bernanke himself has
cautioned, that there are negative consequences.”  Jobs Report  The benchmark 10-year  yield  rose less than one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.84 percent at 8:55 a.m.  New York 
time, based on Bloomberg Bond Trader data.  The economy gained 150,000 jobs in December, versus 146,000
in November, according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts
regarding a Labor Department report scheduled to be released
tomorrow. The jobless rate held at 7.7 percent, the least since
2008, according to a separate survey.  The firm’s $286 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  has gained 10.2
percent over one year, beating 94 percent of its peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Pimco, a unit of the
Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,  managed  $1.92 trillion as of
Sept. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  