-- GrowthGate of Dubai May Invest $200 Million More in Mideast
-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 2013-01-03T20:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/growthgate-of-dubai-may-invest-200-million-more-in-mideast.html
GrowthGate Capital Corp., a Dubai-
based  private-equity (PEY)  firm with investments in companies that are
valued at $1.4 billion, said it may invest an additional $200
million in businesses in the  Middle East  that weren’t hurt by
the turmoil of the Arab Spring as difficulties raising funds
abate.  “The markets that we like the most, the Gulf Cooperation
Council, plus Jordan and  Morocco , have gained more prominence
after the Arab Spring and we think that they hold the most
promise for private equity,” Karim Souaid, managing partner of
Dubai-based GrowthGate, said in an interview on Dec. 31. “The
private-equity ecosystem in these countries is at its best, and
that’s political stability, economic prospects, middle class,
demographics, purchasing power and rule of law.”  Fundraising by private-equity firms in the Middle East and
North Africa fell to $672 million in 2011, less than half the
$1.5 billion of 2010, according to a study published in June by
the MENA Private Equity Association, a Dubai-based lobby group.
The industry gathered about $6 billion in 2008. Firms struggled
to attract investors as uprisings toppled governments in  Egypt ,
Tunisia and  Libya  and  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis worsened.  GrowthGate deployed $200 million of the money it raised
since its inception in 2007 in  Saudi Arabia , where about half
its investments are, as well as the United Arab Emirates and
Jordan, Souaid said. The firm’s investments grew at an annual
compound rate of 18 percent from 2007 to 2012 and it may start a
fresh round of capital raising in mid-2013, he said.  “GrowthGate intends to duplicate its existing private-
equity investments of $200 million into new targets in 2013 and
beyond,” said Souaid, 48, a former investment banker.  Nothing ‘Fancy’  Souaid, who coined the term “MUST” to designate what he
calls the key markets of Morocco, U.A.E,  Saudi Arabia (SABIC)  and
 Turkey , has spent money buying into services that are not
capital intensive and which he calls “middle market,”
including logistics, waste management, and food. He’s
considering investments in property management and oil-field
services.  “We’re generalists,” Souaid said. “Our investments
depend upon a number of criteria, including good management,
usually founders’ management. We don’t buy into distressed. We
only invest in properly managed old-economy type of businesses.
We don’t look at fancy stuff.”  Typically the firm invests $20 million to $25 million in
companies that have a value of $50 million to $200 million.  ‘One Priority’  “Every single company that we’ve invested in outside of
Saudi Arabia had only one priority in mind: to get into the
Saudi market,” Souaid said. “And Saudi has the beauty of not
only having the financial strength but it also has the
demographic power. Within the Gulf Cooperation Council, it’s the
largest.”  GrowthGate’s companies include Gama Aviation Ltd., an
aircraft leasing company; Averda, a waste-management company;
and Roots Steel, a Saudi Arabia-based company. “We get hands-on
not in managing but monitoring these companies, in assisting
them, in supporting their development, in giving them access to
the regional markets -- but we only invest in well-managed and
strongly managed companies,” said Souaid.  GrowthGate has a few exits on track, though is waiting,
like many private equity firms that have extended their holding
horizon, for the right time to divest, Souaid said. Markets in
the region have underperformed  emerging markets (EEM) , with the
Bloomberg GCC 200 Index of the biggest Gulf Cooperation Council
stocks up 3.7 percent in 2012, lagging behind the 15 percent
rally in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index.  “Surely we would like to put certain assets on the exit
path and the  capital markets  have not been the most conducive,”
Souaid said. “2013 is a promising year for the region and we
look forward that some of these investments will be realized.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mahmoud Kassem in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  