-- Shooter Kills Three Women in Swiss Mountain Village Spree
-- B y   L e i g h   B a l d w i n
-- 2013-01-03T17:59:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/gunman-shoots-dead-three-people-injures-two-in-swiss-village.html
A gunman shot dead three people and
injured another two in a mountain village in southern
Switzerland, police said.  Officers were alerted to the shootings in Daillon, near the
city of Sion in the Valais canton, at 8:50 p.m. yesterday by a
caller, who reported seeing “several wounded people lying on
the ground,” the regional police force said in a  statement 
posted on its website late yesterday.  An elite police unit deployed to the village opened fire on
the gunman after he threatened them, later arresting him,
according to the statement. He was shot in the chest and
remained on life support until the afternoon, when he recovered
enough to breathe unassisted, and will be questioned at the
earliest opportunity, cantonal authorities said later on their
website.  “The 33-year-old man was armed with an old army rifle and
a shotgun of the type commonly used for shooting birds,” Valais
police spokesman Markus Rieder said in a telephone interview
today. “All three killed were women. The injured were both
men.”  The women, 32, 54 and 79 years old, died at the scene and
the two injured men were hospitalized, Rieder said. The shooter
knew the victims and is not related to them, the Valais cantonal
government said today in an online statement.  He had been drinking heavily before the deadly spree, the
 20 Minuten  website reported, citing a local cafe owner, Marie-
Paul Udry, who turned off the lights at his premises and
prevented diners from leaving as shots echoed in the street.  Motive Unknown  The 32-year-old victim was the partner of one of the
wounded men, aged 33, who remains in “life-threatening”
condition with a wounded pelvis, and the two have young
children, according to the canton. A second injured man, 63
years old, is in “stable” condition after an operation on his
shoulder, it said.  “We do not yet know the motive of the killer,” according
to the statement. Police did not name the attacker.  An eyewitness, Nathalie Frizzi, was walking her dog when
she heard the shots, a local newspaper,  Le Nouvelliste ,
reported.  “There were people running everywhere,” she was quoted as
saying. “I thought children were shooting at cats and shouted
at them to stop. I’m still shocked to think I might have been
hit.”  Police had previously confiscated weapons from the man in
2005, when he was placed in a psychiatric ward, the Valais
administration said.  Gun Deaths  “The entire population is shaken,” Christophe Germanier,
president of the municipal district of Conthey that Daillon is
part of, said in an  interview  with Swiss radio broadcaster  RTS .  Switzerland had the world’s third-highest rate of gun
ownership in 2007, with an average of 45.7 weapons per 100
people, compared with 88.8 in the U.S., according to a report by
the  Small Arms Survey  published that year.  There were 241 deaths in Switzerland by shooting in 2010,
compared with 408 in 2001, according to the most recent  data 
available from the Swiss government. Ninety-two percent of those
deaths in 2010 were suicides.  In February 2011, Swiss voters rejected in a referendum a
proposal to ban citizens from keeping  guns at home  and require
all guns to be registered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leigh Baldwin in Zurich at 
 lbaldwin3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jim Silver at 
 jsilver@bloomberg.net ;
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  