-- Liberals Nip Obama as He Battles Republicans
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2013-01-03T23:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/liberals-nip-obama-as-he-battles-republicans.html
You can already hear the rumbling in
the distance -- a train of noisy liberal Democrats barreling
straight for the White House. They should arrive just in time
for President  Barack Obama ’s second inauguration.  The president already has his hands full dealing with angry
and unrealistic Republicans. Now he’s getting reacquainted with
their counterparts on the left -- a less ideologically
inflexible bunch but not necessarily any more susceptible to
reason.  Recognizing the enormous stakes in the 2012 election,
liberals took the advice of Dr. Evil and “zipped it” during the
entire campaign. They refrained from any criticism of the
president, lest it help Republican challenger  Mitt Romney .  For a party famous for its lack of discipline, that was
impressive. So was the Obama campaign field organization.
Humorist  Will Rogers  once said, “I’m not a member of any
organized political party. I’m a Democrat.” Lately, given the
disarray on the Republican side, Rogers might have swallowed
hard and seen fit to declare himself a Republican.  If Democrats are better organized than in the past, they
still have their foibles. Recall the crowd at the Democratic
National Convention in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , loudly booing
Los Angeles Mayor  Antonio Villaraigosa  as he left the stage.  Scant Support  Villaraigosa, chairman of the convention, had just claimed
that two-thirds of the delegates had approved by voice vote the
reinstatement in the party platform of a provision supporting
 Jerusalem  as the capital of  Israel . It was more like two
delegates and maybe a third -- about the same tiny level of
support that welcomed Obama’s insistence that “God” be put back
in the platform, too.  Before the campaign, liberals were hardly hesitant to
express their disappointment with the president. Recall the
liberal unrest of 2009 when Obama, bowing to congressional
pressure, failed to close the prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and
neglected to support a public option in the Affordable Care Act.  Liberals  crying  “kill the bill” came dangerously close to
derailing landmark health-care reform for which they had been
fighting since the Progressive “Bull Moose” Party Convention of
1912. Obama rightly complained in response that too many of his
supporters were letting “the perfect be the enemy of the good.”  Now we’re about to see such imperfection under assault
again. While Obama won strong Democratic backing for the so-
called fiscal-cliff deal in both the Senate and the House, a
chorus of liberal critics rose up to condemn his compromises.  They were particularly incensed that he agreed to raise the
threshold on income subject to a higher  tax rate  from his oft-
stated preference of $250,000 per family to $450,000 per family.
Some news stories  reported  that Obama broke a campaign promise
by abandoning the $250,000 level.  A few liberals  even complained  that Obama violated his
principles by compromising. They must not have listened to him
all year. One of his most important -- and most frequently
stated -- principles is that compromise is essential to
governing.  Having  said  that “not everybody gets a hundred percent of
what they want” from negotiations, Obama surely would have
doomed these and future negotiations by clinging to every jot
and tittle of his opening offer.  Perhaps Republicans, too, have now been forced to take the
plunge into pragmatism. One achievement of the fiscal-cliff deal
was that it violated the “Hastert Rule,” named for former House
Speaker Dennis Hastert, that required “a majority of the
majority” Republican caucus to proceed on legislation. Instead,
Republicans split on the vote and the bill passed with
Democratic support.  Entitlement Adjustment  Just as Republicans must learn to live with tax increases,
Democrats must learn to live with -- and vote for -- changes in
entitlements. They should keep in mind that reforms such as a
chained  consumer price index , which alters the inflation
calculation applied to  Social Security , and means testing the
benefits of wealthy retirees, do not threaten the social safety
net.  Neither  Franklin Roosevelt  on Social Security nor  Lyndon Johnson  on Medicare was wedded to any of the particulars of
those programs -- only the principle of guaranteed support from
the government.  The road ahead is paved with compromises that many
Democrats won’t like. The president will stick to his refusal to
negotiate with Republicans who want to hold an increase in the
debt ceiling hostage to spending cuts. But he will have to
negotiate over the sequester -- the $1.2 trillion in cuts to
defense and domestic programs scheduled to take effect in two
months.  Decoupling the debt ceiling from the sequester will be
daunting, if not impossible. Even if Obama succeeds, he will
have to agree to cuts to entitlements or discretionary programs,
a course many liberals oppose. They haven’t forgotten how Obama
almost betrayed their interests in the failed “Grand Bargain”
talks in July of last year.  If liberals are disappointed in Obama’s fiscal-cliff deal,
imagine how they will feel in late February when he starts
making tough choices on spending cuts. Liberals need to think
harder about what their own long-term deficit reduction plan
would be. Raising more revenue is necessary. It’s not
sufficient.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this article: Jonathan Alter
 alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 