-- IMF’s Blanchard Defends Findings on Impact of Budget Cuts
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-01-03T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/imf-s-blanchard-defends-findings-on-impact-of-budget-cuts.html
International Monetary Fund Chief
Economist  Olivier Blanchard  defended findings that budget cuts
caused a deeper-than-expected reduction in European growth,
reflecting the fund’s milder fiscal policy prescription in
recent months for countries such as Greece and  Portugal .  The working paper published today by Blanchard and
colleague Daniel Leigh followed a study included in the IMF’s
World Economic  Outlook  in October, which they said “generated
many comments, criticisms, and suggestions.” The paper finds
that so-called fiscal multipliers, which gauge the impact of
budget consolidation on growth, were “substantially higher”
than anticipated by analysts during the debt crisis.  While the authors said their findings should not be seen as
arguing for specific country policies, recent IMF advice in
 Europe  suggests they have been influential. Greece and Portugal
received more time to meet fiscal targets under international
bailout packages and the fund says Latvia’s spending cuts have
gone too far.  “The results do not imply that fiscal consolidation is
undesirable,” Blanchard and Leigh wrote. “The short-term
effects of fiscal policy on economic activity are only one of
the many factors that need to be considered in determining the
appropriate pace of fiscal consolidation for any single
country.”  The October report had been criticized by the  European
Central Bank  and the European Commission, the other two members
of the so-called troika of creditors in the euro region.  “The current debate appears to be too narrowly focused on
the size of the short-term fiscal multiplier,” the ECB wrote in
its December  bulletin . “ Fiscal consolidation has a favorable
impact on the path of the debt-to-GDP ratio, which, at present,
is more important than ever to restore trust in fiscal
sustainability in the euro area and beyond.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  