-- InterDigital, Tiffany, Amazon, GM: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-01-03T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/interdigital-tiffany-amazon-gm-intellectual-property.html
InterDigital Inc. (IDCC)  said it filed a new
patent-infringement complaint against Huawei Technologies Co.,
 ZTE Corp. (000063)  and  Samsung Electronics Co., (005930)  claiming they are using
its technology related to the latest mobile-phone standards.  The complaint, filed with the U.S. International Trade
Commission in Washington, builds on one that InterDigital lodged
against Huawei, ZTE and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  in 2011, which is scheduled
for a hearing in February.  InterDigital claims Huawei, ZTE, Samsung and Nokia products
including mobile phones, USB sticks,  laptop computers  and
components infringe as many as seven of its patents. It’s
seeking an order that would prevent imports of the products into
the U.S. The company said it filed a companion lawsuit in
federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware , seeking cash compensation
for the unauthorized use of its inventions.  “While the vast majority of our dozens of licensees
recognize our contributions and choose to license our portfolio
based on discussions alone, in some cases we’re forced to resort
to legal action,” Lawrence Shay, president of InterDigital’s
patent holding units, said in a statement.  Earlier yesterday,  King of Prussia , Pennsylvania-based
InterDigital announced it had extended a patent license with
BlackBerry maker  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  to ensure it covers 4G
technology.  Huawei and ZTE are  China ’s two largest makers of phone
equipment. Both are based in Shenzhen, China. Samsung, based in
Suwon, South Korea, is the world’s largest maker of mobile
phones.  The first patent case against Huawei prompted the Chinese
company to file an antitrust complaint with European Union
regulators. Huawei claims InterDigital has made “unreasonable
and discriminatory demands” for licensing fees.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Tiffany Keeps Exclusive Rights to Peretti Jewelry After Deal  Tiffany & Co. (TIF) , the luxury jeweler whose profit has trailed
analysts’ estimates for four straight quarters, reached an
agreement to continue selling jewelry by Elsa Peretti, which
accounts for about 10 percent of its sales.  Peretti will receive a one-time payment of $47 million and
royalties as part of the 20-year licensing contract, the New
York-based company said yesterday in a filing. Tiffany has been
Peretti’s sole licensee since 1974.  The accord allows Tiffany to retain exclusive rights to
Peretti’s designs, which include pieces such as “Diamonds by
the Yard” and iconic heart- and bean-shaped pendants. Tiffany,
the world’s second-largest luxury jeweler, recorded revenue of
$3.64 billion in its fiscal 2011.  Tiffany, the second-largest largest luxury jewelry maker,
said last year that failing to reach an agreement with Peretti
may “adversely” affect earnings. Peretti expressed interest in
ending her accord with Tiffany, and the two sides were
discussing a phased wind-down of sales of the designer’s
products as an alternative to buying her trademarks.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA is the world’s largest luxury
jewelry maker.  Amazon Wins Dismissal of Apple’s App Store False-Ad Claim  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  won dismissal of Apple Inc.’s claim that
the online retailer’s use of the term “app store” for Android
device software is false advertising.  U.S. District Judge Phyllis Hamilton in Oakland,
 California , yesterday granted Amazon’s request to throw out one
claim in Apple’s lawsuit alleging trademark infringement and
unfair competition over the Amazon Appstore for Android, a
service begun in March that sells applications for the Kindle
Fire and devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software.  Apple is seeking a court order to block Amazon from using
the term. Amazon has argued the words are a generic term that
Apple doesn’t have exclusive rights to use. A trial is scheduled
for Aug. 19.  The iPhone maker, which started its APP STORE in 2008, said
Amazon’s use of the term was false advertising because it
deceives customers into believing that Amazon’s service has the
qualities of Apple’s applications store, Hamilton said in her
ruling. Apple maintained this could divert its revenue to
Amazon.  Apple hasn’t shown that Amazon’s advertising attempt to
mimic Apple’s, failed to show that Amazon made any false
statement, and presented no evidence that customers were misled
by Amazon’s use of the term, Hamilton said.  She ruled only on Amazon’s request to eliminate the false
advertising claim.  In 2008, Apple applied to the U.S. Patent and Trademark
office to register APP STORE, according to the order.  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  opposed the registration, saying the term is generic. Last
year the Trademark Trials and Appeals Board put an opposition
proceeding on hold pending the outcome of the lawsuit before
Hamilton.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, declined to comment on the ruling. A call to
Seattle-based Amazon’s media line seeking comment on the ruling
wasn’t immediately returned.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Amazon.com Inc., 11-01327, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  Nestle’s KitKat’s Shape Ruled Entitled to European Protection  The shape of  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s KitKat chocolate bar is entitled
to protection, European trademark regulators ruled and Food
Product Design  reported .  The shape had originally been registered in 2006, and
challenged by  Mondelez International Inc. (MDLZ) ’s Cadbury unit,
according to Food Product Design.  Nestle then argued successfully that it had used the design
for so long that the public accepted the shape as an indicator
of origin, Food Product Design reported.  Cadbury hasn’t yet indicated whether it will appeal this
ruling, according to Food Product Design.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Doe Defendant Granted Right to Seek Identity of Company Official  A federal judge in  Los Angeles  has granted an unnamed
defendant’s request to find out the identity of the alleged head
of a company suing him for copyright infringement.  In a Dec. 26 order, U.S. District Judge Otis D. Wright gave
a John Doe defendant the right to take discovery in efforts to
find out who is the actual principal of Ingenuity 13 LLC, a
provider of adult-themed videos.  In a Dec. 18 filing, counsel for the unnamed defendant told
the court that it’s possible that the alleged head of the
company may have been named as such in legal papers without his
knowledge or consent.  According to a letter included with that filing, an Alan
Cooper of  Minnesota  is a caretaker for a property in that state
owned by a Chicago attorney. In the letter, Cooper says he was
told by the attorney that if anyone contacted him about various
corporations, he was to let the attorney know.  Cooper said he’d learned that someone with his name was
listed as the principle for a company pursuing numerous
copyright suits, and that the firm that filed those suits had an
office address with the lawyer for whom he worked as a
caretaker.  The caretaker wants the court to determine whether his name
is being used without his knowledge and against his will.  Wright granted the discovery request and at the same time
put a stay on the plaintiff’s request for the identity of the
John Doe defendant.  The case is Ingenuity 13 LLC v. John Doe, 2:12-cv-08333-
ODW-JC, U.S. District Court, Central District of California (Los
Angeles).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Business Aviation Trade Group Head Says GM Needs Private Planes  The head of a trade group representing individuals and
companies that use private aircraft is arguing that  General
Motors Co. (GM)  needs to be able to have its own private planes as a
way of preventing industrial spying, Forbes magazine  reported .  In an opinion piece in the magazine, Ed Bolen of the
 National Business Aviation Association  said that GM needs to be
able to use private planes so that employees can meet and
discuss proprietary information “in a secure environment and
without fear of industrial espionage.”  The automaker was barred from using private planes as part
of the 2009 government subsidy and that restriction has now been
lifted, according to Forbes.  Bolen said in his Forbes piece that studies have repeatedly
shown that using a business airplane “is a sign of a well-
managed company” and that such companies “outperform those
without aircraft.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 