-- Iran Wraps Up 6-Day Wargame in Southern Waters, Says Goals Met
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-01-03T07:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/iran-wraps-up-6-day-wargame-in-southern-waters-says-goals-met.html
Iran ’s navy wrapped up a six-day
military drill around the Strait of Hormuz aimed at displaying
the country’s readiness to defend the waterway.  Navy spokesman Rear Admiral Amir Rastegari praised
operational units’ swift response after the military exercise
ended yesterday, according to a report published by state-run
 Press TV . The drill covered an area extending to the Sea of Oman
and the north of the  Indian Ocean  and involved testing defensive
and missile systems, combat vessels and submarines, Rastegari
said in a state-run  Fars  news agency report yesterday.  Iran, which regularly announces military procedures, is
entangled in a dispute with western powers over its nuclear
program, which they allege may be aimed at developing atomic
weapons, a charge the Persian Gulf country rejects.  Israel  has
said “all options are on the table,” including military
strikes, to prevent Iran from building a bomb.  Iran said it successfully test-fired the locally-built Rahd
surface-to-air-missile and the short-range cruise missile Nasr
on Dec. 31, the fourth day of the drill. The Navy also test-
fired the Ghader coast-to-sea cruise missile and the Nour
surface-to-surface missile the following day,  Press TV  said.  The country’s latest combat helicopter, Toufan II, which is
equipped with precise targeting, digital firing control and
night vision, was unveiled yesterday, the state-run  Mehr  news
agency said.  The  Strait of Hormuz  between Iran and Oman is a transit
point for about 20 percent of the world’s traded oil. Iranian
officials have at times threatened to close down the waterway if
their country’s national security was endangered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  