-- Iran May Import India Drugs Amid Shortage, Sanctions: Pharmabiz
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-01-03T11:47:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/iran-may-import-india-drugs-amid-shortage-sanctions-pharmabiz.html
Iran’s Health Ministry is seeking to
import medicines from neighboring  India  as financial sanctions
against the country restrict its access to them elsewhere,
 Pharmabiz  reported, citing unidentified sources.  Iranian ministry officials are keen to import some 28 types
of medications including capsules, solutions and injectable
drugs from Indian suppliers, according to a report by the
Mumbai-based portal on India’s pharmaceutical industry published
yesterday.  Possible deals would follow a trip last month by a 26-
member Indian delegation to the Iranian capital, Tehran, aimed
at exploring opportunities in the pharmaceutical sector,
Pharmabiz said.  Due to western-led sanctions, only a handful of
international banks are willing to transfer currencies on behalf
of Iran to purchase medicine, which is leading to a shortage of
imported drugs, Rasoul Khazari, a member of the Iranian
parliament’s health committee, said in November. He called on
authorities to act to prevent a crisis.  Costs of medical equipment have also soared, rising an
average of 245 percent due to the decline in the value of  Iran ’s
national currency, Hossein-Ali Shahriari, the health committee’s
head, said Nov. 10. The rial has dropped as much as 40 percent
against the dollar since August, as tighter U.S. and European
sanctions curb Iran’s oil exports and access to hard currencies.  The complications prompted Health Minister Marzieh Vahid
Dastjerdi to warn last year that an increase in the price of
certain medicines was “inevitable” unless the government
provided assistance. She was fired last week.  Iran is under financial, trade and energy sanctions over
its nuclear program, which the U.S. and its allies say may
include the development of atomic weapons. Iran rejects the
accusation and says its program is designed to secure energy for
a growing population and for medical research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  