-- Third Point Rose 21% in 2012 After Bet on Greek Bonds
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-01-03T14:02:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/third-point-rose-21-in-2012-after-bet-on-greek-bonds.html
Daniel Loeb ’s $9.3 billion hedge fund
 Third Point  LLC ended 2012 up 21 percent, boosted by its bet
that European policy makers would keep  Greece  in the euro by
continuing to support the indebted country.  Third Point gained 3.6 percent in December, its second-best
month of the year, the New York-based hedge fund said in a
statement today. Third Point’s bet on Greek sovereign debt was
its top-performing investment for a third straight month in
December, according to the statement.  Loeb, 51, started buying Greek debt in July and August,
concluding that a pledge by European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  to defend the euro at all costs made an exit from
the currency unlikely, Third Point told clients in October. The
assets fell as low as about 13 percent of face value in May,
before surging at the end of the year ahead of a plan by Greece
to buy back bonds to erase some of its debt.  Other “top winners” for Third Point in December included
 Yahoo! Inc., (YHOO)  and American International Group Inc., according to
the statement. Third Point in May forced out Yahoo Chief
Executive Officer  Scott Thompson  after criticizing the Web
portal’s strategy.  Greek government bonds are no longer one of Third Point’s
five-biggest investments, the statement shows. The debt had been
its second-biggest position after Sunnyvale, California-based
Yahoo in November, indicating the hedge fund sold Greek bonds
during last month’s buyback.  Measures Approved  The bond repurchases were part of a package of measures
approved by euro-area finance ministers to cut Greece’s debt to
124 percent of gross domestic product in 2020 from a projected
190 percent in 2014. Aid from the latest round of rescue funds
from the European Union and  International Monetary Fund  was
contingent on the buyback going through.  Greece ended up purchasing bonds with a face value of 31.9
billion euros ($41.8 billion), paying an average of about 33.8
percent of face value to retire the bonds. The buyback was aimed
at the 62 billion euros of new bonds issued when Greece
restructured its privately held debt in March.  Third Point’s 21 percent gain in 2012 compares with a 6.9
percent average  increase  through November for other event-driven
 hedge funds , used by traders try to predict triggers for stocks
and bonds such as corporate restructurings and mergers,
according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc. Hedge funds
rose 1.59 percent on average last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  