-- Irish Union to Meet RBS as Bank to Close 20 Ulster Branches
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-01-03T13:33:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/irish-union-to-meet-rbs-on-concern-20-ulster-branches-to-close.html
Irish labor union officials will meet
executives at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ’s Irish unit next
week amid concerns that the lender plans to close about 20
branches, or a twelfth of its network.  An  Ulster Bank Ltd.  executive detailed the lender’s plans
to shut offices on a conference call with some staff last month,
the Dublin-based Irish Bank Officials Association said in a
letter to its members at the bank, obtained by  Bloomberg News .
 Larry Broderick , the union’s general secretary, confirmed the
note’s contents. RBS will provide more detail on the closures in
coming weeks, the bank said in an e-mailed statement.  “I’m shocked that an announcement like this was made
during a teleconference with no prior consultation with our
union,” Broderick said by phone today. “In light of this, the
bank has agreed to meet us next week.”  Branch closures at Ulster would mirror moves by lenders
such as  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , the nation’s largest mortgage
lender, Lloyds Banking Group Plc, which withdrew from the market
in 2010, and  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  following the collapse of a real-
estate bubble. RBS has injected at least 10.8 billion pounds
($17.6 billion) into its unprofitable Ulster Bank unit since
2008 to shore it up against real-estate losses and
said last year it would eliminate 950 jobs at the operation.  Loss Widens  Ulster Bank’s operating loss widened in the first nine
months of last year to  797 million pounds  from 751 million
pounds for the year-earlier period, as a fall in interest income
offset stabilizing loan losses. The bank controls 146 branches
in the  Republic of Ireland  and 90 in  Northern Ireland , according
to its  website .  “We continue to keep our branch network under review to
ensure that we are operating in the correct locations for our
customers,” the bank said.  A separate IBOA notice to Ulster Bank members in November
said that  Jim Brown , the unit’s chief executive officer, told
the union that Edinburgh-based RBS remains committed to its
Irish unit. Brown also indicated that a branch review hadn’t
been completed and that it continues to examine outsourcing
possibilities, according to the note.  RBS  acquired  Ulster Bank in 2000 as part of its purchase of
National Westminster Bank Plc and expanded three years later
through the acquisition of First Active Plc, Ireland’s oldest
building society.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  