-- James Dinan, Cowboys’ Jones Catch Debs Ball: N.Y. Scene
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-01-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/james-dinan-cowboys-jones-catch-debs-ball-n-y-scene.html
“Some people love tradition,” said
Margaret Hedberg, general chairman of the 58th annual
International Debutante Ball.  “There’s a niche for everything. This gets you out of your
jeans and sweat suits.”  For billionaire James Dinan, founder and chairman of York
Capital Management LP, one young woman stood apart from the 47
floating through the Waldorf-Astoria ballroom in white gowns and
long gloves on Saturday night.  That was his only daughter, Katherine, a Harvard freshman
who was escorted by her younger brother, Zachary.  The debutantes began the event in a circle around the Astor
Salon, where they greeted the 600 guests. Then the crowd
gathered in the ballroom for lobster rolls, grilled tournedos of
beef with potato souffle, and coffee-cream profiteroles. Dancing
followed.  Once regarded as a husband safari for young women and
socially ambitious parents, the event has changed with the
times. Michelle Quick, daughter of former American Stock
Exchange President Peter Quick, said the ball gives her an
opportunity to make new friends from different countries.
Scotland and China were among the others represented.  Dinan said he recently made Katherine a trustee of the
family’s philanthropic foundation. Alabama’s Courtney Walls
works for South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley.  Dallas Cowboys  Among the other debs were Amanda Crown, great granddaughter
of U.S. industrialist and philanthropist Henry Crown, and Haley
Anderson of  Texas  whose father is Shy Anderson, chief operating
officer of Blue Star Investments and a vice president of the
 Dallas Cowboys . Her mother,  Charlotte , is executive vice
president of brand management for the team.  Haley Anderson was presented with her cousin Jessica Jones.
Looking on were their grandparents  Jerry Jones , owner of the
Cowboys, and his wife, Gene. (The following day the Cowboys lost
to the  Washington Redskins .)  Most debutantes paired pearls with their white ensembles,
though Jenness Gough of Texas wore a tiara along with diamonds
and emeralds that have been in her family for generations.  Each debutante was responsible for $16,000, which covered
12 tickets to the event and access to the pre- and post-ball
parties.  “What fiscal cliff?” one spectator asked as he took in
the glittering scene.  The proceeds of the ball go to the International Debutante
Ball Foundation, which benefits a number of charities.  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Norman Lebrecht on  music , Catherine
Hickley on  art .  To contact the writer on this story:
 Stephanie Green  in  Washington  at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 