-- Jet in Talks to Sell Stake to Etihad as India Eases Rules
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-01-03T11:04:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/jet-in-talks-for-etihad-stake-after-india-eases-rules.html
  Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN) , the
nation’s largest publicly traded carrier, said it’s in talks
with Etihad Airways PJSC for selling a stake after the South
Asian nation eased airline ownership rules.  “The discussions are in progress but no terms have been
firmed up at present,” Mumbai-based Jet said in a stock
exchange  filing  today. The carrier didn’t give a timeline for
the talks to conclude.  An agreement with Jet will make Etihad the first foreign
carrier to buy into an Indian airline after Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh’s government announced the new rules in
September.  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , which has halted flights
because of a cash crunch, is also in talks with the Abu Dhabi-
based operator to sell a stake.  Etihad is in talks to buy 24 percent of Jet for about 16
billion rupees ($294 million), an Indian government official
said last month. Etihad is in due diligence with a “couple” of
Indian carriers, Chief Executive Officer  James Hogan  said Dec.
3. The carrier already has stakes in  Virgin Australia Holdings
Ltd. (VAH) , Aer Lingus Group Plc and  Air Berlin Plc. (AB1)   Shares of Jet Airways rose 4.7 percent to 607.3 rupees at
close of trading in Mumbai, while Kingfisher fell 2.3 percent to
14.80 rupees. The benchmark BSE India Sensitive Index gained 0.3
percent.  In December, Jet agreed to expand a codeshare pact with
Etihad, which operates services to nine Indian cities, including
New Delhi and Mumbai. The Indian carrier flies to 125 cities,
including Bahrain, Doha, Dubai, Jeddah, Kuwait and Muscat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  