-- JPMorgan to BofA Get Delay on Rule Isolating Derivatives
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-01-04T21:36:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/jpmorgan-and-bofa-get-two-year-delay-in-dodd-frank-swaps-pushout.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  Bank of America Corp.  won a delay of Dodd-Frank
Act requirements that they wall off some derivatives trades from
bank units backed by federal  deposit insurance .  Commercial banks including the Wall Street firms may get as
long as an additional two years -- until July 2015 -- to comply
with the rules, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
said in a notice yesterday. The so-called pushout provision was
included in the 2010 financial-regulation law as a way to limit
taxpayer support for risky derivatives trades.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission and other
regulators need to complete swap rules to allow “federal
 depository institutions  to make well-informed determinations
concerning business restructurings that may be necessary,” the
OCC said in the notice. Dodd-Frank requires that equity, some
commodity and non-cleared credit derivatives be moved into
separate affiliates without federal assistance.  Regulators including  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  had opposed the provision, saying it would drive
derivatives to less-regulated entities. In February, the House
Financial Services Committee approved with bipartisan support
legislation that would let banks keep commodity and equity
derivatives in insured units by removing part of the rule.  The OCC is prepared to “consider favorably” requests for
transition, the regulator said in the six-page notice. The
agency said delays could be extended for a third year based on
consultations with other regulators.  OCC Report  JPMorgan had 99 percent of its $72 trillion in notional
swaps trades in its commercial bank in the third quarter of
2012, according to the OCC’s  quarterly derivatives report . Bank
of America had 68 percent of its $64 trillion in its commercial
bank, according to the report.  Banks including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  will be given as long as two
years beyond the July 16 deadline to move their swaps
businesses, the OCC said. They must submit written requests
describing how a transition period would reduce harmful effects
on mortgage lending,  job creation  and capital formation. The
requests, which must be submitted by Jan. 31, also must weigh
how the transition period would affect insured depositors.  Other Regulators  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. expects to release
rules or guidance in coordination with other regulators that
apply to different types of banks,  Andrew Gray , the agency’s
spokesman, said today in an e-mail. None of the 65 firms that
registered as swap dealers with the CFTC by the end of last year
are directly overseen by the FDIC, Gray said.  The Federal Reserve has primary oversight of swap dealers
that have registered with CFTC including  Bank of New York Mellon
Corp.  and Goldman Sachs Bank USA. The pushout provision’s impact
on uninsured U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks is also
unresolved by the OCC’s guidance and lack of guidance from the
FDIC and the Fed.  The uninsured branches of foreign banks should be given the
same treatment as U.S. insured depository banks, Sally Miller,
CEO of the Institute of International Bankers, said in an e-mail
today. “It is imperative that this disparity of treatment be
addressed quickly,” said Miller, whose organization represents
banks including  Credit Suisse AG (CSGN)  and Deutsche Bank AG.  Eric Kollig, a Fed spokesman, declined to comment on the
Fed’s approach to the issue.  ‘Pretty Amazing’  “The procrastination of both regulators and the banks on
this portion of Dodd-Frank has been pretty amazing,” Marcus Stanley, policy director for Americans for Financial Reform, a
coalition including the AFL-CIO labor federation, said yesterday
in a telephone interview. “The swaps-pushout provision is a
really important part and something that absolutely should be a
central part of the regulatory framework.”  Blanche Lincoln , an Arkansas Democrat who led the Senate
Agriculture Committee during talks leading to Dodd-Frank,
sponsored the original provision in 2010. It applied to more
more types of derivatives before it was scaled back amid
objections from Bernanke and former FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair .  “I never myself thought it made a great deal of sense,”
 Barney Frank , the Massachusetts Democrat who helped draft the
Dodd-Frank law and whose last day in Congress was yesterday,
said on Feb. 16 when he backed changes to the pushout provision.  Ken Bentsen , executive vice president of public policy and
advocacy at the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association, said Congress should still seek changes.  “We continue to believe that the underlying swaps push out
provision is bad policy,” Bentsen said yesterday in an e-mail,
noting that regulators haven’t proposed how the provision would
work. “Given this uncertainty, it is impractical to require
compliance by July 2013,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  