-- Nazi Past, Female Phobia Afflict Vienna Philharmonic
-- B y   N o r m a n   L e b r e c h t
-- 2013-01-03T21:46:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/nazi-past-female-phobia-afflict-vienna-philharmonic.html
It’s billed as the biggest classical-
music concert of the calendar, which starts the New Year with
two hours of sweet, innocent waltzes.  And this year especially, the orchestra at the heart of the
show is facing persistent and increasing charges of illegal
discrimination against women and minorities, along with ugly
secrets that keep arising from its distant Nazi past.  The  Vienna Philharmonic’s  concert is watched on television
by as many as 60 million viewers in 81 countries, the totals
rising year by year. Rather than being uplifting, for many
viewers it’s depressing to note how few women can be seen.  Out of 126 members of the VPO, just six are women. On
stage, for most of this week’s concert, only three or four could
be counted, with two more coming on for cameos -- one of them a
debutante flautist, Karin Bonelli.  The bigger the show, the greater the public scrutiny. The
VPO, which owns and plays the event, is one of the world’s
signature ensembles, commanding top ticket prices in  China ,
Japan and Carnegie Hall.  Made up of peer-picked players from the  Vienna State Opera ,
the Philharmonic was the last orchestra in the world to admit
women, maintaining an all-male membership until as recently as
February, 1997. Today, it still has the fewest female musicians
of any major classical ensemble.  It has given any number of excuses for practicing
discrimination, from claiming that women with babies would not
be suitable for long overseas tours, to arguing that they would
destabilize its singular sound.  Sexist Policies  Almost all VPO players are Austrian trained, ensuring a
stylistic homogeneity in core symphonic repertory, much of it
composed in or around Vienna.  A radical change of personnel might, it is argued, imperil
the orchestra’s authority in Beethoven, Brahms, Bruckner and all
the Strausses.  Sex discrimination, however, is against the law. In July
2011, the Austrian government cut VPO funding by 2.29 million
euros ($3.03 million) after facing parliamentary objections to
its blatant imbalance. Still, nothing changed.  Challenged once more at a news conference last week, the
VPO chairman professor Clemens Hellsberg said: ‘In art, you
cannot impose quotas.”  At 11 a.m. on the first day of the year, critics
automatically scan the Musikvereinsaal stage to see how many
women have been permitted to join the main event. In January
2012, there were just two, an apparent act of defiance against
public punition.  No Asians  The VPO operates a similar barrier against ethnic
minorities. There are no Asian or non-white members, even though
one third of the students at Vienna’s University of Music come
from the Far East.  A tuba player from the New  Japan  Philharmonic, Yasuhito
Sugiyama, won an audition to play at the State Opera in 2003,
but was refused membership of the Philharmonic. After three
years, Sugiyama quit Vienna to join the world-class  Cleveland
Orchestra .  Merit, in the VPO, has little to do with membership, which
often passes from father to son. (VPO spokesmen deny racial
exclusion, noting that two present players have a parent of
Asian extraction.)  Franz Welser-Most , music director of the State Opera and
conductor of the 2013 New Year’s Day concert, voiced a
widespread fear when, in a speech, he demanded: “Are we faced
with a phenomenon of ‘Asianization,’ much like the
‘Americanization’ of a century ago?”  Viennese Xenophobia  Xenophobia, the fear of foreigners, is rooted in the
Viennese DNA. Foreign, in Vienna, means anyone from beyond the
Danube Basin. Rumanians are tolerated in the VPO, Russians not.  Last February, two trombonists resigned. Ian Bousefield,
the principal, is British. Jeremy Wilson is American. Although
each gave personal reasons for his departure, there was no
ignoring the congruity: these were the first players in the VPO
from English-speaking countries and the atmosphere in their
section was described as “hostile” (two Australian brothers,
Benedict and  Tobias Lea , play in the strings).  Charges of racial discrimination revive memories of the
orchestra’s role under seven years of Nazi rule. As the 75th
anniversary of Hitler’s Anschluss approaches in March 2013,
Austrian historians have reminded newspaper readers that 25 VPO
players were full-blown Nazis before 1938 and almost half the
band joined the party soon after.  Genocide Reward  Fifteen players -- Jewish or politically on the left --
were sent to concentration camps. Seven died. In 1966, 21 years
after the Nazi defeat, an unrepentant VPO gave its highest honor
to Baldur von Schirach, the Vienna Gauleiter in charge of
genocide.  To its credit, the VPO published many of its misdeeds in a
1992 history by its present chairman, titled “Democracy of
Kings.” Professor Hellsberg this week promised to provide more
Nazi-era information on the orchestra’s website, before the
Anschluss anniversary.  He will be pressed to come clean on the closely-guarded
origins of the New Year’s Day concert, an event devised in 1939
with Nazi consent. The Reich aimed to reduce  Austria  to
provincial status.  The VPO, fighting to save its international reputation,
used Nazi connections to win a vital concession to assert what
it did best -- the irresistible 3/ 4 dances of the Strauss
dynasty, a step the plodding Berliners could never emulate.  Julie Andrews  The New Year’s Day concert is rooted in the orchestra’s
complicity with Nazism. That historical fact, along with
continued discriminatory practices, could not be overlooked this
week as Welser-Most waved his baton and show host Julie Andrews
beamed from your screens. Her presence served as a strange
reminder that almost 50 years have passed since she escaped the
Austrian Nazis with the baron and his brood in “The Sound of
Music,” a musical Austrians have never much liked.  Next year, the conductor will be Daniel Barenboim, who is
Jewish by origin and egalitarian in outlook. There will be
tension in the rehearsal room if, by then, the VPO has not come
clean on the shady origins of its show and improved its record
on sexual and racial equality.  (Norman Lebrecht’s most recent book is “Why Mahler.” He
is an occasional contributor to Muse, the arts and culture
section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Hephzibah Anderson  on books and
 Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the writer on the story:
Norman Lebrecht in London at  norman@normanlebrecht.com .
 Norman@normanlebrecht.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 