-- Next Raises Profit Target as Christmas Sales Beat Estimates
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-01-03T08:57:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/next-raises-profit-guidance-as-christmas-sales-beat-expectations.html
Next Plc (NXT) , the U.K.’s second-largest
clothing retailer, said full-year profit will at least be at the
higher end of its forecast after Christmas sales beat estimates.  The  shares  gained as much as 4.3 percent, the most in five
months, as the Leicester, England-based company said sales rose
3.9 percent in the 54 days ended Dec. 24. That beat the 3.5
percent median estimate of seven analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Pretax profit for the fiscal year ending this month will be
611 million pounds ($992 million) to 625 million pounds, Next
said, tightening the range from 590 million pounds to 620
million pounds. The retailer refrained from offering discounts
until after Christmas to maintain profitability and reduced the
amount of inventory in its clearance sale by 8.2 percent.  “The company was one of the winners over Christmas helped
by a strong range geared to the colder weather,” said Freddie George, an analyst at Seymour Pierce in  London . He has a hold
recommendation on the stock.  Next rose 3.3 percent to 3,898 pence at 8:25 a.m. in London
trading, heading for the highest close since at least 1988. The
shares surged 36 percent last year, more than the 5.8 percent
gain in the U.K. benchmark FTSE 100 Index.  Sales growth was led by the Directory home-shopping unit,
which increased holiday revenue by 11 percent.  Subdued Outlook  Sales in the retailer’s stores rose 0.6 percent, helped by
a 2.2 percent increase in selling space.  Next expects the consumer climate to remain “subdued, but
steady” in the year ahead.  “Employment is holding up, so overall people have still
got money, but the value of the money they are earning is
falling relative to prices,” Chief Executive Officer Simon Wolfson said in a telephone interview. “As long as inflation is
rising faster than earnings, which we think it will for at least
a year so, one way or another consumers will have to find ways
to save money.”  The overall level of discounting over the holiday “was
less than the same point last year,” Wolfson said.  Next has been opening stand-alone home-furnishings stores,
improving online delivery times and offering more higher-priced
aspirational fashion.  Regardless of the economic climate, the CEO said Next will
continue to expand the Directory unit and open more new stores
in the U.K. Online is much less capital intensive, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  