-- Nikkei Candle Pattern Portends Gains: Technical Analysis
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 2013-01-03T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/nikkei-225-candle-pattern-portends-more-gain-technical-analysis.html
Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY) ,
which capped its biggest yearly advance since 2005, may extend
its gains this year, according to candlestick chart analysis by
Tachibana Securities Co.  The index ended its last trading day for 2012 at the year’s
highest close, creating 12-month  white candlestick pattern  with
almost no upper wick, a bullish signal to some analysts. A wick
shows the highest or lowest price. If the gauge’s close is
higher than the open, the body is white. The Nikkei 225 failed
to rise on the past two occasions when a similar pattern was
formed, in 1999 and in 1989, tumbling at least 27 percent the
following year.  “It’s very natural to expect this may be third-time
lucky,” said  Kenichi Hirano , general manager and a technical
analyst at Tachibana Securities in  Tokyo . “In recent years the
pattern wasn’t working well. But it’s very possible that it will
regain its true form. A buy signal is a buy signal, it comes
from history. The pattern shows a year-end rally, indicating
people are expecting a good year the following year.”  The benchmark index rose 23 percent last year, accelerating
in December as the pro-stimulus  Liberal Democratic Party  won a
general election, boosting optimism that Japan’s new leaders
will do more to fight deflation and spur the economy. The yen
weakened to a 28-month low versus the dollar on Jan. 2,
bolstering the nation’s exporters, amid speculation new Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe will push the central bank to increase cash
infusions.  Deflation Fight  “This chart pattern is rare,” said Koji Toda, chief  fund
manager  at Resona Bank Ltd. in Tokyo, which oversees about $174
billion. “Japanese shares have been underperforming. With Abe
indicating the government’s will to fight deflation, there isn’t
much reason anymore to ignore stocks. If shares do end up
falling, that will probably be because European shares tumble
because of a global economic crisis and Japan gets dragged
down.”  The Nikkei 225 gained 37 percent through Dec. 28 from the
start of March 2009, the month in which global equity markets
bottomed after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and
the ensuing financial crisis. By  contrast  the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index in the U.S. rose 91 percent while the  MSCI All Country
World Index (MXWD)  advanced more than 80 percent.  Technical analysts study charts of trading patterns and
prices to predict changes in a security, commodity, currency or
index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 