-- Novartis’s Lucentis Wins U.K. Backing as Drug’s Price Cut
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 2013-01-03T12:56:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/novartis-s-lucentis-wins-u-k-backing-as-drug-s-price-cut.html
Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Lucentis eye drug won
the backing of the U.K.’s health-cost agency for treatment of a
diabetes-related condition after the company agreed to discount
the price and provided added evidence the medicine was effective
in some patients.  Lucentis, also known as ranibizumab, is recommended for
impaired sight in some patients with diabetic macular edema, the
 National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence  said in an
e-mailed statement today. The decision reverses a 2011 ruling by
the agency, known as NICE.  NICE, which advises the state-run  National Health Service 
on which treatments represent value for money, rejected Lucentis
in 2011 because the drug didn’t provide enough benefit to
justify the cost.  Diabetic macular edema is caused by leaky blood vessels in
the eye. Lucentis, an injection, prevents the buildup of a
protein called vascular endothelial growth factor that
contributes to the leakage. NICE already  recommends  Lucentis for
a separate eye condition, wet age-related macular degeneration.  The drug costs 742.17 pounds ($1,210.18) for each
injection, according to NICE. Lucentis is given monthly until a
patient’s vision is stable over three consecutive months, and
treatment may resume if sight later becomes impaired, the agency
said.  Novartis will reduce the price, and the size of the
discount is confidential, NICE said. The Basel, Switzerland-
based company also provided updated analyses showing the drug
was more effective in patients with a central retinal thickness
greater than 400 micrometers.  NICE’s draft recommendation on Lucentis is now open for
public comment, and final guidance should be published next
month, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  