-- Loblaw Buying Canada Safeway No Pipe Dream in Spinoff
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2013-01-03T21:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/loblaw-buying-canada-safeway-no-pipe-dream-real-m-a.html
Loblaw Cos. (L) ’s planned real-estate
spinoff is giving  Canada ’s largest grocery chain leeway to do
acquisitions.  Loblaw plans to put more than C$7 billion ($7.1 billion) of
property into a real estate investment trust that will be sold
through an initial public offering by mid-2013. While Loblaw
will still own more than 80 percent of the REIT, it may receive
C$670 million from the deal, according to Toronto-Dominion Bank.  Buying  Safeway Inc. (SWY) ’s Canadian unit is logical as Loblaw
faces more competition from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Target
Corp. (TGT) , said Veritas Investment Research Corp. Safeway, a grocer
that got 15 percent of its $44 billion of  sales  in 2011 from
Canada, is undervalued after falling 14 percent last year, Bank
of Montreal said. Safeway trades at the cheapest price relative
to revenue and earnings among North American food retailers
larger than $1 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Edward Jones  & Co. said closely held Overwaitea Food Group, the
western Canadian chain, is another option for Loblaw.  “The REIT will free up a lot of cash that the company
could inject into an acquisition,” Kathleen Wong, a Toronto-
based analyst at Veritas, said in a telephone interview. Loblaw
“said the priority of the cash is going to grow the business,
but we speculate that if Canada’s Safeway or Overwaitea are for
sale, maybe Loblaw will be interested.”  CEO Retiring  Julija Hunter, a Loblaw spokeswoman, declined to comment on
how the company would spend the proceeds from the REIT sale.
Teena Massingill, a spokeswoman for Safeway, declined to comment
on whether it would entertain an offer from Loblaw for the
Canadian division. Safeway announced yesterday that Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Steve Burd will retire in May. An
Overwaitea representative declined to comment on Loblaw.  Today, shares of Safeway fell 1 cent to $18.34, while
Loblaw’s stock declined 0.9 percent to C$41.64.  Loblaw said Dec. 6 that it will transfer about 35 million
square feet (3.3 million square meters) of property to a REIT
that it will take public this year.  “The REIT will have a mandate to explore opportunities
outside of Loblaw as part of its growth strategy,” Sarah Davis,
Loblaw’s chief financial officer, said on a conference call with
analysts last month. “We don’t plan on sitting on the money for
five years or an extended period of time.”  Wal-Mart, Target  Loblaw would raise C$670 million by selling 20 percent of
the REIT, according to Michael Van Aelst, a Montreal-based
analyst with Toronto-Dominion. It could use the money to buy
Safeway Canada as U.S. discount retailers expand in the country,
boosting competition for traditional supermarkets, according to
Veritas,  Raymond James  Financial Inc. and Edward Jones.  Wal-Mart, the world’s biggest retailer, will double its
Canada grocery  sales  by 2016 from the 2011 level, Veritas’s Wong
estimates. Target spent C$1.83 billion in 2011 to buy store
leases from Toronto-based Hudson’s Bay Co.’s Zellers unit. Wal-
Mart of Bentonville,  Arkansas , planned to add 4,000 workers in
the country last year, while Minneapolis-based Target will hire
as many as 27,000 people there in 2013.  Buying Safeway Canada, a unit of the $4.4 billion publicly
traded company that’s headquartered in Pleasanton,  California ,
would give Loblaw more than 200  stores  that generated $6.7
billion of revenue in 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Rewards Program  “Safeway is the one name that keeps popping up because
that’s the one most people feel is available in the marketplace
and makes the most sense,” Brian Yarbrough, a St. Louis-based
analyst at Edward Jones, said in a phone interview. “From a
geographic standpoint, it makes sense” for Loblaw, he said.
“It’s an opportunity to gain some quick market share, which is
tough to come by up in Canada right now.”  Safeway Canada has been shielded from some of the new
competition because of its rewards program for customers, which
awards airline miles for spending money at its stores, said
Karen Short, a New York-based analyst at BMO. Loblaw said in
February that it’s planning to start a new  loyalty program  in
2013, the Globe and Mail  reported  at the time.  Unlike some other grocery chains, “Safeway’s not broken,”
Short said in a phone interview. “It has great assets, great
locations, great brand equity, a very strong loyalty program.
They have a lot of things that are valuable, and the stock has
done nothing. They pretty much look cheap on any metric.”  Safeway shares closed yesterday at $18.35. At that price,
Safeway had a cheaper valuation based on sales, earnings and
free  cash flow  than every other food retailer in  North America 
larger than $1 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Its
price-sales ratio of 0.1 compares with the industry median of
0.4, the data show.  Takeover Speculation  In April, options traders bet that Safeway was a takeover
candidate as calls priced 10 percent above its stock price rose
to the highest level on record versus comparable put contracts.  While a takeover makes sense, it may be difficult to
convince Safeway to sell its stores, and doing so could require
too high of a price, according to Raymond James’s Kenric Tyghe.  “There’s no question around the merits strategically or
otherwise of a Safeway acquisition,” the Toronto-based analyst
said in a phone interview. “The question is, because the merits
are attractive as they are, would the incumbents overpay? The
chance of prying it out of their hands is very, very remote.”  Loblaw could instead use the IPO proceeds to pay off  debt
maturing  in the next few years. It has a C$200 million note
coming due in November and C$450 million of bonds that mature
next year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Credit Rating  Maintaining its investment-grade credit rating is another
factor Loblaw should consider if pursuing an acquisition, said
Marc Goldfried, a Toronto-based  money manager  at Aegon Capital
Management Inc., which oversees C$8.5 billion including Loblaw
shares.  “Otherwise, they’re going to take themselves out of the
debt financing market,” he said in a phone interview. Loblaw’s
debt is  rated  BBB by  Standard & Poor’s , two rungs above junk.
Loblaw said Dec. 6 that the REIT spinoff isn’t expected to
affect its credit rating.  Still, Loblaw’s best defense against Wal-Mart and Target is
to gain scale, which an acquisition would give, said Raymond
James’s Tyghe.  “In a market that is so competitive, every little basis
point of market share is worth its weight in gold,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  