-- Crude Oil Drops From Highest in Three Months
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-01-03T13:09:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/oil-slips-from-highest-in-three-months-on-signs-gains-excessive.html
Crude slid for the first time in
three days in New York on speculation that this week’s gains
were unjustified as the U.S. budget deal is insufficient to
ensure growth in the world’s biggest oil-consuming country.  Futures lost as much as 0.7 percent after rallying 2.6
percent in the past two sessions as U.S. lawmakers passed a bill
to undo automatic tax increases and spending cuts that
threatened the nation’s economic recovery. The accord won’t
reduce deficits enough to avoid a sovereign-rating downgrade,
Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday. Technical indicators
showed crude may have risen too quickly, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’re seeing short-term jitters on the back of Moody’s
comments of a potential downgrade in the pipeline if things are
not improved in the coming months,” said Michael Poulsen, an
analyst at Global Risk Management Ltd. in Middelfart,  Denmark .  West Texas Intermediate for February delivery dropped as
much as 63 cents to $92.49 a barrel in electronic trading on the
New York Mercantile Exchange and was at $92.76 as of 1:05 p.m.
London time. The contract yesterday climbed 1.4 percent to
$93.12 a barrel, the highest settlement for a contract nearest
to expiration since Sept. 18.  Brent for February settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange fell as much as 84 cents to $111.63.
Prices advanced 3.5 percent in 2012, a fourth annual gain. The
North Sea crude was $19.37 a barrel more than WTI.  Trading volume in WTI was 26 percent below the 100-day
average for the time of day, while Brent was 6 percent above.  Debt Ratio  The ratio of U.S. government debt to gross domestic product
will likely peak at about 80 percent in 2014 and may stay at
about that level for the rest of the decade, New York-based
Moody’s said yesterday in a statement. The ratings company
assigns the U.S. its top Aaa ranking and has a negative outlook
on the grade.  “Further measures that bring about a downward debt
trajectory over the medium term are likely to be needed,”
Moody’s said.  WTI yesterday settled higher than the 30-day upper
Bollinger Band for the fourth time in a week, signaling the
market is overbought, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Prices decreased in mid-September after closing above the same
indicator, about $92.49 a barrel today.  The crude’s 14-day relative strength index for front-month
prices rose to 68.1 yesterday, the highest level since Sept. 14.
A reading above 70 is a signal to investors that price increases
may have been excessive. It is at 64.9 today.  “We’re getting a mild sell signal and the coincidence of
those levels mean that some traders will be bailing out,” said
Michael McCarthy, a chief strategist at CMC Markets in Sydney.
“What we’re seeing is longs closing out, taking some profit.”  Oil Inventories  U.S. crude stockpiles probably fell by 500,000 barrels to
370.6 million in the seven days ended Dec. 28, according to the
median estimate of nine analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg before an
Energy Department report tomorrow. A drop of that size would
leave supplies at the  lowest level  since the week to Oct. 12.  The Energy Department is scheduled to release its weekly
report in  Washington  two days later than usual because of the
New Year holiday. The industry-funded American Petroleum
Institute will publish its inventory data later today.  Stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , America’s largest storage
hub and the delivery point for the New York contract, increased
2.21 million barrels to a record 49.2 million in the seven days
ended Dec. 21, the Energy Department reported on Dec. 28.  Seaway Expansion  WTI slid 7.1 percent in 2012 as the U.S. shale boom
deepened a supply glut at Cushing. That left it at an average
$17.47 barrel below Brent last year, compared with a premium of
about 95 cents in the 10 years through 2010.  “Final work is being performed” on the Seaway pipeline
that was reversed in May to carry crude from Cushing to the Gulf
Coast, owners  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  and  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) 
said yesterday. Capacity is being expanded to 400,000 barrels a
day from 150,000 and operations will start at full rates by the
end of next week, according to a joint statement.  The U.S. House vote to pass legislation avoiding the so-
called fiscal cliff capped a final push as Republicans balked at
a bipartisan Senate bill. House Speaker John Boehner ordered a
vote even as 151 of 236 Republicans, including Majority Leader
Eric Cantor, ultimately voted no. President  Barack Obama  said
he’d sign the bill into law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  