-- Monti Says Bersani May Need to Drop Allies to Govern Italy
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-01-03T15:03:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/monti-says-bersani-may-need-to-abandon-allies-to-govern-italy.html
Italy ’s caretaker Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  said  Democratic Party  head Pier Luigi Bersani, who
leads in opinion polls, may need to cut ties to some of his
allies to form a post-election coalition that can govern.  Election rules make it difficult for any party to win a
Senate majority. Should Bersani fail to gain control of both
houses of Parliament and need to strike an alliance with Monti,
the premier’s pledge to further reform the labor market may
prove to be a sticking point for some core Bersani supporters.  “I think it’s always a good thing to cut the wings, if by
that ugly expression one means cutting extreme positions,”
Monti told state-owned television network RAI in an interview
today when asked whether he would consider an alliance with
Bersani after elections on Feb. 24-25.  Bersani, a former communist who opened up Italy’s energy
market as industry minister under former premier  Romano Prodi ,
is backed by Italy’s biggest union and by Apulia governor Nichi Vendola, who opposed Monti’s austerity policies. The leader of
the Democrats has already said his party supports only some of
the measures outlined by Monti in a 25-page  political manifesto 
published last month.  “I confirm my respect, but I also urge to respect the
Democratic Party as a whole,” Bersani told reporters in  Rome 
when asked about Monti’s remarks. “We are a liberal party which
will never shut anyone’s mouth.”  Labor Market  Monti said today that during his 13 month-term he noted
resistance to his policies from both the Democratic Party and
his predecessor  Silvio Berlusconi ’s People of Liberty party.
Both parties backed his government.  The former European commissioner said politicians from both
parties are now endorsing his political bloc. “They are coming
toward us,” he said.  “Monti’s decision to participate in the election is a
poisoned chalice and one which turns the campaign into a
referendum on his economic program,” Nicholas Spiro, managing
director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in  London , said in a note
to clients yesterday. “Indeed, it is likely to accentuate left-
right divisions in Italian politics.”  A center bloc, including Monti’s list, the Union of
Centrists and Future for Italy, would win 12 percent of the
vote, according to a Dec. 31 poll by the Istituto Piepoli for
Affariitaliani.it published yesterday.  A center-right alliance, including Berlusconi’s party
though not the  Northern League , would get 24 percent. Bersani
and his allies lead with 42 percent, according to the same poll.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at o
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  