-- Moody’s, S&P, Fitch Must Face Fraud Claims in SIV Suit
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-01-04T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/moody-s-s-p-fitch-must-face-fraud-claims-in-subprime-suit-1-.html
Moody’s Corp. (MCO) , Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch Inc. must face fraud claims in an investor lawsuit over
their ratings of a structured investment vehicle called
Rhinebridge that collapsed in 2007, a judge ruled.  Morgan Stanley, which helped set up the investment, also
lost a bid to dismiss claims of aiding and abetting fraud in a
ruling yesterday by U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin in
 Manhattan . Scheindlin narrowed the suit, dismissing other
claims.  Many of Scheindlin’s rulings yesterday are similar to ones
she made last year in a related case over Morgan Stanley’s
“Cheyne” structured investment vehicle. In both cases,
Scheindlin said the ratings services could be found liable if
they misstated their opinions about the investments and if the
ratings were false or misleading. Fitch Inc. wasn’t sued in the
Cheyne case.  “Plaintiffs must provide evidence that the rating agency
issued a rating that it knew was unsupported by facts or
analysis -- that the rating agency did the equivalent of issuing
a restaurant review despite never having dined at the
restaurant,” Scheindlin wrote in an opinion yesterday.  Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for New York-based
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , declined to comment on yesterday’s rulings. Ed
Sweeney, a Standard & Poor’s spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a phone message seeking comment.  “We are confident that Moody’s will ultimately prevail on
the claims in this litigation,” Michael Adler, a spokesman for
the company, said in a phone interview. Adler said the
Rhinebridge ratings represented the honestly held views of the
analysts involved.  “We respectfully disagree with the court’s decision and we
will continue to vigorously defend ourselves against these
allegations,” Dan Noonan, a spokesman for Fitch, said in an e-
mail.  The Rhinebridge case is King County,  Washington  v.  IKB
Deutsche Industriebank AG (IKB) , 09-cv-08387, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The Cheyne case is
 Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank (ADCB)  v. Morgan Stanley & Co., 08-cv-07508,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  