-- TOP Oil Market News: Crude Drops From Highest in Three Months
-- B y   R o b   V e r d o n c k
-- 2013-01-03T12:19:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/top-oil-market-news-crude-drops-from-highest-in-three-months.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Oil Drops From Highest in Three Months on Signs Gains Excessive  Crude slid for the first time in three days in  New York  on
speculation that this week’s gains were unjustified as the U.S.
budget deal is insufficient to ensure growth in the world’s
biggest oil-consuming country.  TOP OIL MARKET NEWS  Oil Supplies Fall to Three-Month Low in Survey: Energy Markets  U.S. crude inventories probably declined to a three-month
low as refineries bolstered fuel output to meet export demand
and to build domestic heating-oil supplies, a Bloomberg survey
showed.  Yemen Issues Tender to Sell Masila Crude for March Loading  Yemen issued a tender to sell 2.1 million barrels of Masila
crude for loading in March, according to a document obtained by
Bloomberg.  Asia Shuts Fewer Crackers in First Half 2013 as Supply Tightens  Asian ethylene producers will shut fewer crackers for
maintenance in the first half of this year compared with the
same period in 2012 to gain from a forecast decline in  Middle
East  exports of the plastics feedstock.  Seaway Oil Pipeline to Start Service at Full Rates Next Week  Enterprise Products Partners LP and Enbridge Inc. plan to
resume service on the 500-mile Seaway oil pipeline at full rates
by the end of next week after finishing work that will more than
double the line’s capacity.  WTI Crude to Re-Align With Global Markets in 2013: Credit Suisse  Bank’s commodity analysts recommend buying West  Texas 
Intermediate crude contracts or buying time spreads between
monthly WTI futures as the market is set to strengthen, e-mailed
report says.  Credit Suisse Cuts WTI Oil 2013 Forecast to $102.75/B From $106  Bank issues commodity price forecast changes in e-mailed
report.  Essar Said to Offer Vacuum Gasoil Cargo for Loading in January  Essar Oil Ltd., operator of India’s second-largest
refinery, offered to sell 65,000 metric tons of vacuum gasoil
for loading in January, said two traders who asked not to be
identified because the information is confidential.  Natural Gas Drops Most in 5 Weeks on Forecasts of Warmer Weather  Natural gas futures in New York tumbled the most in five
weeks on forecasts of moderating temperatures that may reduce
demand for the power-plant fuel.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Bharat Petroleum Restarts Kochi Refinery Crude Unit After Work  Bharat Petroleum Corp., India’s second-biggest state
refiner, restarted a crude distillation unit at its Kochi plant
late last month after completing planned maintenance work,
according to two company officials.  Gulf Coast Gasoline Advances on Process Upsets, Alon Big Spring  Gasoline gained on the U.S. Gulf Coast after a process
upset at Phillips 66’s Borger refinery and as a unit of Alon USA
Energy Inc.’s Big Spring plant is shut for repair.  Motiva Said to Plan Restart of Port Arthur Crude Unit Tomorrow  Motiva Enterprises LLC once again will try to restart the
325,000-barrel-a-day crude unit at its Port Arthur, Texas,
refinery tomorrow, a person familiar with operations said.  Exxon Mobil Reports Emissions From Baytown Facility in Texas  Exxon Mobil Corp. reported emissions after a flow loss of
flexicoker fractionator bottoms at its Baytown facility in
Texas, according to a filing with state regulators.  Alon USA Shuts Fluid Catalytic Unit at Big Springs Refinery  Alon USA Energy Inc. was shutting down a fluid catalytic
cracker at its Big Spring, Texas,  oil refinery  to repair a leak
at the unit, according to a filing with the Texas Commission on
Environmental Quality.  Motiva’s Port Arthur, Texas, Refinery Has Emissions Release  Motiva Enterprises LLC’s Port Arthur, Texas, refinery
released hydrogen sulfide, nitrogen oxides and sulfur dioxide
when a wet-gas compressor on the delayed coking unit shut down
unexpectedly.  Phillips 66 Releases Sulfur Dioxide Gas at Illinois Refinery  Phillips 66 released sulfur dioxide gas at an oil refinery,
according to a filing with the Illinois Emergency Management
Agency.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Ghana Adds One Jubilee Crude Cargo to January Loading Program  Ghana will ship one more cargo of Jubilee crude in January,
bringing total exports for this month to four, according to a
revised loading program obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Singapore Residue Fuel Stockpiles Fall to Lowest in Three Months  Residual-fuel inventories in  Singapore , Asia’s largest oil-
trading and storage center, fell 3.3 percent to the lowest in
three months, according to a unit of the Ministry of Trade and
Industry.  Asia Naphtha Crack Rebounds; Vitol Sells Gasoline: Oil Products  Asia’s naphtha crack spread rose for the first time in four
days, signaling increased profit for refiners. Vitol Group sold
gasoline and fuel oil in Singapore, the region’s biggest oil-
trading center.  U.S. West Coast Gasoline Weakens After Increase in Inventories  Spot gasoline on the U.S. West Coast weakened after
supplies in the region increased.  Crude Official Selling Prices and Formulas by Country (Table)  The following table shows official prices, formulas and
relative values for crudes from the Middle East,  Africa  and the
Americas. Figures represent outright prices in dollars a barrel,
or premiums and discounts to regional benchmarks where plus and
minus symbols appear.  Indonesia Raises Minas December Crude Price to $109.01 a Barrel  Indonesia  raised the official selling price of its Minas
crude for December by 0.7 percent to $109.01, according to a
document from the country’s Directorate General of Oil and Gas,
at the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources, obtained by
Bloomberg News.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Buffett Utility Buys SunPower Projects in $2.5 Billion Bet (2)  Warren Buffett ’s MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co. agreed to
spend as much as $2.5 billion to build two solar projects in
 California  that are set to be the world’s largest photovoltaic
development.  How the Jones Act Blocks Natural Disaster Relief: View (Correct)  To get gasoline flowing in the New York area after
 Hurricane Sandy , President  Barack Obama  temporarily suspended
the Jones Act, a statutory relic of the post-World War I era
that bars foreign ships from carrying freight between U.S.
ports.  KKR’s Energy Future Bolsters Unregulated Unit: Corporate Finance  Derivatives traders have cut the perceived default risk by
almost half at Energy Future Holdings Corp.’s unregulated unit
as the Texas electricity producer signals it may keep the
division out of bankruptcy this year.  Coast Guard Effort to Save Shell Oil Rig Hampered by Weather (1)  The U.S. Coast Guard and Royal Dutch Shell Plc were
fighting 70 mile-per-hour winds and 40-foot swells as they tried
to assess damage to a floating oil drilling ship that ran
aground on a remote Alaskan island.  Buffett Like Icahn Reaping Tank Car Boom From Shale Oil: Freight  Warren Buffett and  Carl Icahn  are reaping the benefits of
surging demand for railroad tank cars to haul shale oil from
beyond the reach of existing pipelines.  Chavez Cancer Imperils $7 Billion Caribbean Oil Funding: Energy  Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez ’s battle with cancer
threatens $7 billion of subsidized oil exports that help prop up
Cuba’s economy and contain inflation in Caribbean nations from
 Jamaica  to the Bahamas.  Bumi Resources Swings to $632M Loss on Derivative Trades (2)  PT Bumi Resources, the coal company at the heart of a
dispute between Indonesia’s Bakrie Group and  Nathaniel
Rothschild , swung to a loss in the first nine months after a
$422 million charge on derivatives transactions.  Tax Turmoil Sends H&R Block Swaps Off Cliff: Corporate Finance  The risk of owning H&R Block Inc. debt is the lowest in
more than two years as the tax preparer gets ready to help
customers navigate changes resulting from Congress’s effort to
avert more than $600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts.  OTHER MARKETS  U.S. Stock-Index Futures Fall as Yen Gains; Natural Gas Drops  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell after the
gauge rallied the most in a year yesterday and stocks in the
euro area retreated as speculation increased the U.S. budget
deal won’t reduce the deficit fast enough. The yen strengthened
and natural gas declined.  Dollar Advances to 3-Week High Versus Euro on Debt-Limit Concern  The dollar rose to its strongest level in almost three
weeks against the euro on speculation U.S. policy makers will
struggle to reach agreement on raising the nation’s debt limit,
underpinning demand for the safest assets.  Koruna Tops Worst Lists as Intervention Threatened: Currencies  The Czech central bank’s threat to weaken the koruna by
intervening in foreign-exchange markets for the first time since
2002 is increasingly being seen as credible by the world’s
biggest currency trading firms.  Euro-Area Stocks Slip on U.S. Deficit Concern; Swiss Shares Jump  Euro-area stocks declined from a 17- month high amid
concern a budget deal will fail to reduce the U.S. government’s
fiscal deficit. Swiss shares rallied after the New Year holiday,
U.S. index futures fell and Asian shares outside Japan advanced.  Europe Volatility Sinks Most Since 2009 as Stocks Rally: Options  The cost of options protecting against European stock
losses slid the most since 2009 last year as the central bank’s
commitment to stimulus helped drive the region’s equities to a
19-month high in December.  Dust Bowl Wilting U.S. Wheat as Funds Turn Bearish: Commodities  The worst U.S. drought since the 1930s Dust Bowl is
damaging wheat crops across the world’s biggest supplier, at a
time when  hedge funds  are the most bearish on prices in seven
months.  Gold Declines on U.S. Budget-Deal ‘Hangover’ as Dollar Rallies  Gold fell in London with stocks and oil after reaching a
two-week high yesterday and as a stronger dollar curbed demand
for bullion as an alternative investment.  Chavez Foes Call for Ailing Venezuelan President to Cede Powers  Venezuela’s opposition said cancer- stricken President Hugo
Chavez is unable to fulfill his duties and that the government
should temporarily hand his full powers over to Vice President
 Nicolas Maduro .  SPORTS  Louisville Upsets Florida 33-23 in College Football’s Sugar Bowl  Teddy Bridgewater threw two touchdown passes as the
University of Louisville upset the third-ranked University of
Florida 33-23 in college football’s Sugar Bowl.  Nets Down Thunder for Third Win in Four Under Carlesimo in NBA  Joe Johnson  scored 33 points to lead the Brooklyn Nets to a
110-93 victory over the Oklahoma City Thunder.  Lewis Says He’ll Retire at End of Baltimore Ravens’ Season (1)  Ray Lewis , the Baltimore Ravens’ seven-time National
Football League All-Pro linebacker, announced that he will
retire at the end of the postseason.  ENERGY PRICES  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----   ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)       92.53  -0.59  -0.6  Nymex     Feb.
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    111.87  -0.60  -0.5    ICE     Feb.
Gasoil ($/Ton)         937.00  -6.50  -0.7    ICE     Feb.
Gasoline (c/Gal)       278.74  -0.77  -0.3  Nymex     Feb.
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.22  -0.02  -0.5  Nymex     Feb.
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    111.97  -0.35  -0.3    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            302.25  -2.38  -0.8  Nymex     Feb.  Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            80.10  +0.3
Gold ($/Oz)          1,688.80  +0.8
MSCI World Index     1,365.01  -0.2  Prices as of 12 p.m. London time  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss in London at   sev@bloomberg.net  