-- OPEC to Boost Supply for Final Winter Demand, Oil Movements Says
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-01-10T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/opec-to-cut-crude-exports-on-demand-trough-oil-movements-says.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will increase crude shipments this month to
meet the final phase of peak winter demand in the northern
hemisphere, according to tanker tracker Oil Movements.  The group that supplies about 40 percent of the world’s oil
will export 24.15 million barrels a day in the four weeks to
Jan. 26, up 210,000 barrels, or 0.9 percent, from the previous
period, the researcher said today in an e-mailed report. The
figures exclude  Angola  and  Ecuador .  “Winter demand is still strong in the east, near the tail-
end but not quite there,”  Roy Mason , the company’s founder,
said by phone from Halifax, England. “We’ve got another two or
three weeks to go before we’re at the peak.”  Brent crude  rose as high as $113.29 a barrel on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in London today, its strongest level in
almost three months, amid signs of economic recovery and lower
production by Saudi Arabia. The kingdom cut output by 465,000
barrels a day, or 4.9 percent, in December to 9.025 million,
according to a Gulf official who declined to be identified.  “It’s probably the right time to put the brakes on,” said
Mason. “Looking ahead, they must be able to see a price decline
in the spring” because OPEC is currently supplying more than
the market needs, he said.  Middle East shipments will increase 1.3 percent to 17.83
million barrels a day in the period, compared with 17.6 million
in the four weeks to Dec. 29, according to the report. That
figure includes non-OPEC members Oman and Yemen.  Crude on board tankers will average 476.1 million barrels,
down 2 percent on the previous period, the data show. Oil
Movements calculates the volumes by tallying tanker bookings.
Its figures exclude crude held on vessels for storage.  OPEC comprises  Algeria , Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
 Kuwait , Libya, Nigeria, Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. The organization is next scheduled to
meet in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  