-- Morgan Stanley Said to Lead Banks Prepping $8 Billion of CMBS
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-01-03T17:50:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/morgan-stanley-said-to-lead-banks-prepping-8-billion-of-cmbs.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  are marketing $1.4 billion of commercial-mortgage backed
securities as sales surge to the highest in five years.  The lenders plan to sell the bonds, linked to 123
properties spanning the U.S. from Manhattan to Riverside,
California, as soon as next week, according to people familiar
with the deal who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
public.  Wall Street  is planning as much as $8 billion in deals
for January, the highest monthly volume since Dec. 2007,
according to Deutsche Bank AG.  Banks are selling off commercial mortgages accumulated
during the fourth quarter as investor demand for risky assets
surges with the  Federal Reserve  holding  interest rates  at almost
 zero  for more than four years. The debt got a boost yesterday
after lawmakers reached an agreement to avert tax increases on
most Americans, with the relative yield on a benchmark issue
offered by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in 2007 narrowing 15 basis points to 123 basis more
than the benchmark swap rate, according to  Stephen Schwartz , who
trades the debt at  RBC Capital Markets  in New York.  “CMBS joined in the significant rally seen across risk
markets on the back of the fiscal cliff deal,” Schwartz said.
“With more policy risk on the immediate horizon, increased
volatility in broader markets is anticipated. However, given the
strong technical tone underlying CMBS, volatility in this sector
should be reduced.”  The legislation passed this week doesn’t address spending
cuts or the debt ceiling, meaning U.S. politicians are likely
headed for battle during the next two months.  ‘Strong Outlook’  Top-ranked securities linked to commercial mortgages are
yielding 103 basis points, or 1.03 percentage point, more than
Treasuries, according to a Barclays Plc index. The spread fell
to 87 basis points on Dec. 14, the lowest since at least 2007,
before climbing as Congress and President  Barack Obama  sparred
over a budget compromise. The spread was 247 basis points a year
ago, the index shows.  “The markets are starting off with a strong outlook, but
there is a lot less room for error than in prior years,”
Schwartz of RBC said.  Sales of bonds tied to shopping malls, skyscrapers and
hotels are poised to climb 50 percent to $60 billion in 2013 as
yield-starved investors chase bonds tied to everything from
commercial real estate to speculative-grade companies. Sales of
 junk bonds  in the U.S. market were a record $354.3 billion last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The CMBS market is recovering after shutting down when
credit markets froze in 2008, Bloomberg data show. A record $232
billion was sold in 2007, the data show.  Late payments on commercial mortgages contained in bonds
climbed to records this year as property owners that piled on
debt during the boom failed to find financing for maturing
loans, though the rate has fallen in the past six months,
according to Trepp LLC. The delinquency rate was unchanged last
month at 9.71 percent, the New York-based commercial-mortgage
data provider said in a statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  