-- Mortgage-Bond Yields Soar to Highest in Four Months on QE Doubt
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-01-03T20:53:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/mortgage-bond-yields-soar-to-highest-in-four-months-on-qe-doubt.html
Yields on mortgage securities that
guide U.S. home-loan rates jumped to the highest in almost four
months as the minutes of a Federal Reserve meeting signaled the
central bank’s bond buying may end this year.  A  Bloomberg index  of yields on Fannie Mae-guaranteed
mortgage bonds trading closest to face value rose 0.07
percentage point to 2.34 percent as of 3 p.m. in New York, the
highest since Sept. 12. That was the day before the central bank
announced plans to add $40 billion more of government-backed
home-loan securities to its balance sheet each month.  Fed policy makers said they will probably end their
purchases of the debt and $45 billion of Treasuries each month
sometime in 2013, with Federal Open Market Committee members
divided between a mid- or end-of-year finish, according to the
record of its Dec. 11-12 gathering released today in  Washington .
That assessment of its so-called quantitative easing, or QE,
program was a “big surprise” to the  bond market , according to
Jim Vogel, a debt analyst at FTN Financial in Memphis, Tennessee  Higher bond yields “point to the Fed’s very real QE
dilemma,” Vogel said in a note to clients. “When it signals an
end to QE, higher rates could endanger the very recovery that is
improving the labor market conditions. Look no further than how
many bullish economic forecasts for 2013 lead with a better
 housing  market.”  Yields on the Fannie Mae bonds widened about 0.03
percentage point relative to an average of five- and 10-year
Treasury rates, to 0.99 percentage point, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s 0.01 percentage point less than
the average during the past three months, and up from a record
low of 0.55 percentage point on Sept. 25.  The Fed minutes were “somewhat bearish” for spreads and
an end to its buying in the third quarter may mean they “find a
floor at current levels,” Nomura Securities International
analysts led by Ohmsatya Ravi wrote in a note.  “Most” traders
and investors had been “expecting the Fed’s purchase program to
continue at least until the end of 2013,” they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  