-- Most FOMC Participants Saw QE3 Ending in 2013
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-01-03T20:51:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/most-fomc-participants-see-qe3-buying-end-in-2013-minutes-show.html
Federal Reserve policy makers said
they will probably end their $85 billion monthly bond purchases
sometime in 2013, with members divided between a mid- or end-of-
year finish.  “A few members expressed the view that ongoing asset
purchases would likely be warranted until about the end of
2013” while a few others specified no time frame, according to
the record of the Federal Open Market Committee’s Dec. 11-12
gathering released today in  Washington . “Several others thought
that it would probably be appropriate to slow or stop purchases
well before the end of 2013, citing concerns about financial
stability or the size of the balance sheet.”  Four years after cutting the main interest rate to near
zero, policy makers are expanding their third round of so-called
quantitative easing to boost economic growth and cut the  jobless
rate , now at 7.7 percent. In prior rounds of bond purchases, the
central bank bought $2.3 trillion in securities.  The minutes show a divide among FOMC participants on how
long the purchases should last. Participants who provided
estimates were “approximately evenly divided” between those
who said it would be appropriate to end the purchases around
mid-2013 and those who said they should continue beyond that
date.  “They’re willing to do more QE on the premise that the net
benefits outweigh the costs,” said  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S.
economist at Deutsche Bank AG in New York. “But they’re more
willing to entertain the thought that these actions are going to
lose a bit of their efficacy.”  Erased Gains  U.S. stocks erased gains after the release of the minutes.
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  fell 0.4 percent to 1,456.37 at
3:39 p.m. in New York after rising today as much as 0.2 percent.
The yield on the 10-year Treasury rose 0.06 percentage point to
1.9 percent, the highest level since May.  Economic reports today showed the world’s largest economy
picked up even as U.S. lawmakers clashed over fiscal policy. The
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to minus 31.8 in the
period ended Dec. 30, its highest since April, from minus 32.1 a
week earlier. ADP Research Institute data showed a 215,000
increase in employment, the largest since February.  At its December meeting, the FOMC announced Treasury
purchases of $45 billion a month in addition to $40 billion a
month of mortgage-debt purchases begun in September, bringing
the total pace of bond buying to $85 billion a month. The FOMC
hadn’t set a limit on the program’s size or duration and said
last month the purchases will continue “if the outlook for the
labor market does not improve substantially.”  Operation Twist  The new bond buying follows the expiration at the end of
last year of Operation Twist, in which the Fed swapped about $45
billion in short-term Treasuries each month for an equal amount
of long-term debt. That kept the total size of the balance sheet
unchanged. The new buying will expand the  Fed’s total holdings ,
which are currently $2.91 trillion.  Officials discussed the possible risks of new bond buying,
with “a number” expressing concern the purchases “could
complicate the Committee’s efforts to eventually withdraw
monetary policy accommodation” by causing inflation
expectations to rise, according to the minutes.  When the time comes to exit from the record accommodation,
higher interest rates may mean that the Fed’s “remittances to
the Treasury could be significantly affected,” participants
said. They also said the FOMC must “continue to assess whether
large purchases were having adverse effects on market
functioning and financial stability,” according to the minutes.  Revamped Communications  Policy makers last month also revamped their communications
strategy by linking the central bank’s interest rate outlook to
unemployment and inflation. The Fed said its target interest
rate will stay low “at least as long” as unemployment remains
above 6.5 percent and inflation is projected to be no more than
2.5 percent. The FOMC had said previously that rates would stay
near zero at least through the middle of 2015.  “They wanted to really explain their policies better,”
said Bluford Putnam, a former economist at the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York and now chief economist at  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the
Chicago-based owner of the world’s largest futures market, said
before today’s release. “What they’re really saying is they’re
still going to give this economy a boost after it gets going.”
Fed officials last month saw signs of improving fundamentals in
the economy.  Officials in their discussion of replacing calendar date
guidance with economic thresholds said the change would give the
public a better understanding of how and when the Fed will begin
to raise its main interest rate. Most participants favored the
switch, and several said doing so at the December meeting would
allow a “smooth transition.”  Debt Levels  “Many” officials noted that household balance sheets were
improving as debt levels fell and home prices recovered while
“net worth was approaching levels seen before the financial
crisis,” the minutes said. Fed officials cited higher loan
costs and standards for some households and the uncertainty
surrounding U.S. fiscal policy as “headwinds.”  “A number of participants suggested that the business
sector was well positioned to expand spending and hiring quickly
upon a positive resolution of the fiscal cliff negotiations,”
the minutes said. “In a few regions, contacts reported concerns
about the expense associated with new regulations, including
those related to health care, and in some cases indicated a
shift to the hiring of part-time workers in order to avoid these
costs.”  Fiscal Cliff  The Fed’s December meeting took place while U.S. lawmakers
and President  Barack Obama  were negotiating a budget plan to
avoid the so-called fiscal cliff of scheduled tax increases and
spending cuts. An agreement, which was passed and sent to the
White House Jan. 1, delays spending cuts by two months and
undoes income tax increases for more than 99 percent of
households.  The accord lifted U.S. stocks yesterday to a three-month
high, extending last year’s 13 percent rally in the S&P 500 that
was the best annual gain since 2009. The benchmark gauge for
American equities rose 2.5 percent to 1,462.42 yesterday.  Shares maintained gains  last year  even as data reports gave
mixed signals about prospects for the world’s largest economy.
The recovery in housing prices hasn’t been substantial enough to
cut the jobless rate.  Housing Gains  Housing prices, which began to collapse in 2006 sparking
the longest and deepest recession since the Great Depression,
are rebounding and providing a boost to consumer’s balance
sheets. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of home prices in 20 cities
increased  4.3 percent  from October 2011, the biggest 12-month
advance since May 2010.  A rebound in auto sales is another bright spot.  General
Motors Co. (GM) , Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Group LLC posted
December U.S. vehicle sales gains that exceeded analysts’
estimates, completing a year of surprising growth.  U.S. deliveries of cars and light trucks climbed 10 percent
for Chrysler, 4.9 percent for GM and 1.6 percent for Ford,
according to company statements. The automakers topped analysts’
average projections for gains of 7.6 percent by Chrysler, 2.1
percent by GM and 1.2 percent by Ford in a Bloomberg survey.  Still, hiring remains short of what Fed officials have said
they want to see before reducing their unprecedented easing
measures. Payrolls expanded by 146,000 in November and 138,000
in October. Bernanke said in a September press conference that
payrolls growth in the prior six months, in which it averaged
119,000 a month, isn’t the kind of “ongoing, sustained
improvement” in the labor market policy makers want to see.  Little Change  Economists expect little change when the Labor Department
releases its report for December at 8:30 a.m. tomorrow. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey projects that employers
added 150,000 jobs and the unemployment rate remained at 7.7
percent.  Joblessness has fallen to a four-year low from a 26-year
high of 10 percent in 2009. Still, that compares with an average
of 5.8 percent since the government began collecting  the data  in
1948, and a rate as low as 4.4 percent in 2007. Almost 4.8
million Americans have been out of work for six months or more,
and they account for  40 percent  of the total number who are out
of work, Labor Department data show.  “The conditions now prevailing in the job market represent
an enormous waste of human and economic potential,” Bernanke
said at a Dec. 12 press conference. “A return to broad-based
prosperity will require sustained improvement in the job market,
which in turn requires stronger economic growth.”  GDP Expanded  Gross domestic product expanded by 3.1 percent in the third
quarter, rebounding after growth slowed to 1.3 percent in the
second quarter from 2 percent in the first quarter, according to
Commerce Department data.  The U.S. economic expansion probably will be crimped
without being halted by Congress’s budget deal, which
permanently reinstates the income tax cuts for most workers that
ended Dec. 31, continues expanded unemployment benefits and
delays automatic spending cuts for two months. It would let a 2
percentage-point payroll-tax cut expire.  The elimination of the payroll-tax cut, coupled with higher
income taxes on the wealthy, will help clip growth in the first
quarter to 1 percent, from 3.1 percent in 2012’s third quarter,
the latest data available, according to economists at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp.  “The U.S. consumer continues to be stronger and housing
gets better,” Jeffrey Immelt, chairman and chief executive
officer at General Electric Co., said at a Dec. 17 investor
meeting. “But there’s no doubt that the fiscal uncertainty
slowed activity in the fourth quarter of the year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  