-- OUE Puts Pressure Back on Thai Billionaire in F&N Bid
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-01-03T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/oue-puts-pressure-back-on-thai-billionaire-in-f-n-bid.html
Overseas Union Enterprise Ltd. (OUE)  put
the burden back on  Thailand ’s richest man in a bidding war
for  Fraser & Neave Ltd. (FNN)  by extending the deadline for its S$13.1
billion ($10.7 billion) offer for the Singapore property and
drinks company.  OUE, headed by Executive Chairman Stephen Riady, and its
partners moved the expiry date on its S$9.08 per share bid to
Jan. 14, according to a stock exchange statement yesterday. Thai
billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi’s TCC Assets this week
delayed the closing date on its S$8.88 per share offer until
Jan. 10.  “The ball is actually on TCC’s court to improve
their offer before OUE needs to react,”  said Jason
Hughes, head of premium client management at IG Markets in
Singapore.  Fraser & Neave shares have traded above both offers in a
sign investors expect the takeover battle to escalate. Charoen
agreed to buy a 22 percent stake in F&N in July, setting off a
fight for the company’s soft drink and property assets and
prompting the sale of its beer unit to  Heineken NV. (HEIA)   Fraser & Neave shares dropped 0.1 percent to close at
S$9.66 yesterday.  Group Breakup  OUE, a Singapore-based property company, has enlisted  Kirin
Holdings Co. (2503) ,  Japan ’s largest drinks maker, in its bid. OUE
would get the company’s property business and Kirin would take
the food and beverage unit.  Kirin has agreed to tender its 14.8 percent stake in F&N,
OUE has said. The Japanese brewer will offer S$2.7 billion for
F&N’s food and beverage business if OUE wins enough support to
complete the takeover.  Fraser & Neave on Dec. 31 said its independent financial
adviser JPMorgan Chase & Co. had found Kirin’s offer “fair but
not reasonable, from a financial point of view,” partly because
the Japanese brewer’s bid was based on a negotiated sale rather
than an auction.  “For OUE, they now need to work through how a sale of
F&N’s food and beverage business is going to happen as the
JPMorgan report has cast uncertainty on Kirin’s ability to buy
those assets,” said Jonathan Foster, Singapore-based director
of global special situations at Religare Capital Markets. “For
TCC, it’s more straightforward in that they have to decide how
much they are willing to pay while making sure they don’t
overpay.”  F&N has said it had committed to pay the OUE consortium a
break-up fee of as much as S$50 million if a competing offer is
successful.  F&N’s board has said an independent adviser has found both
offers “not compelling but fair.”  Chang Beer  Charoen’s unlisted business, TCC Group, has a real estate
unit. His  Thai Beverage Pcl (THBEV) , which sells the Chang brand of
beer, gets almost all its revenue from its home market. Charoen,
68, has a net worth of about $8.9 billion based on current
calculations from the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  The Thai billionaire in July agreed to pay S$2.78 billion
for an initial stake in F&N by acquiring the stock held by
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. and its partners. He later
acquired more shares to take him near the threshold to make a
bid.  Charoen’s offer for F&N valued the rest of the company at
about S$8.9 billion on Sept. 13, the day TCC offered S$8.88 a
share for the 69.6 percent of F&N it didn’t already control.  OUE Executive Chairman Stephen Riady is a son of Mochtar
Riady, who controls  Indonesia ’s Lippo Group, with businesses
ranging from real estate and financial services to food across
Asia. If successful, it would be the biggest ever acquisition of
a Singapore-based company, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  OUE, which gets about 65 percent of its revenue from hotel
operations, plans at least one investment a year in  Singapore  to
boost property holdings that include office towers, luxury
apartments and malls, Riady said in an interview in August.  Heineken won control of F&N’s brewery unit, the maker of
Tiger beer, in a  deal  that closed in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  