-- Housing Lobby’s Win Costing U.S. $600 Billion: Mortgages
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-01-03T21:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/housing-lobby-s-win-costing-u-s-600-billion-mortgages.html
Congressional efforts to reduce the
U.S. deficit revived tax breaks for mortgage insurance and
extended interest deductions for homeowners that will cost the
government $600 billion over five years.  “This is a meaningful win for the housing lobby generally
and more specifically the mortgage insurance industry,” said
Isaac Boltansky, an analyst for Compass Point Research & Trading
LLC in  Washington . “The mortgage finance establishment fared
relatively well.”  Congress raced to pass the fiscal bill on Jan. 1 to avoid
sweeping spending cuts and tax increases that jeopardized the
economic recovery. Legislators also left in place a 2007 tax
break for homeowners whose debt is forgiven by lenders and
preserved exemptions for profits on home sales, while
maintaining mortgage-interest deductions that Compass Point
estimates will cost $600 billion over the next five years.  The moves could help a  housing market  that last year
started to reverse a five-year slump that pushed the U.S.
economy into the longest recession since the 1930s.  Homebuilders were little changed in New York today after
rising 2.7 percent yesterday and 84 percent in 2012. Mortgage
insurer  MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG)  jumped 5 percent after surging 12
percent yesterday and rival  Radian Group Inc. (RDN)  rose 1.4 percent
today.  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) , the life insurer which also
backs mortgages, rose 2.9 percent, the biggest advance in the
80-company Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials Index.  2013 Savings  Homeowners will save about $100 billion this year from
mortgage interest deductions, according to Compass Point,
helping to make buying more affordable relative to renting.
Congress, meanwhile, allowed payroll tax cuts to lapse, which
will pull more than $100 billion from the economy, the primary
reason why 77.1 percent of U.S. households face higher taxes in
2013, according to the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center.  “What it seems to have come down to is trying to do as
little damage to the nation’s housing market as they possibly
could,” said Keith Gumbinger, vice president of HSH.com, a
mortgage-data firm in Riverdale, New Jersey.  Borrowers with mortgage insurance, from private guarantors
or the U.S. government, will be able to deduct their premiums.
That perquisite had expired at the end of 2011.  The change will apply retroactively to 2012 for homeowners
making less than $110,000 a year and will remain in force this
year, according to a summary of legislative changes from the
National Association of Realtors.  Industry Clout  “The industry’s ability to close on this priority
demonstrates its clout on Capitol Hill, which will be needed in
2013,” Boltansky wrote yesterday in a report.  Almost 3.6 million taxpayers claimed the deduction for
mortgage insurance in 2009, the most recent year for which
Internal Revenue Service data is available. They deducted almost
$5.5 billion in premiums, for a total tax benefit of more than
$700 million, according to the  National Association of
Homebuilders  in Washington.  Banks often require buyers who make a down payment of less
than 20 percent to get mortgage insurance, which pays lenders
when homeowners default or foreclosures fail to recoup costs.  A surge in claims during the housing crash led companies
including PMI Group Inc. and Triad Guaranty Inc. to cease
writing new coverage and limit payouts. Some of those that
remain in business have suffered  years of losses  and had to get
waivers from regulators after they breached mandatory capital
thresholds.  Washington Help  The weakened industry will need help from Washington this
year as regulators consider lessening its role with changes to
bank capital rules and new mandates for lenders to retain some
of the debt they package into bonds. Policy makers have
considered treating loans with insurance the same as those
without, which would reduce its value.  “What happens with housing reform is a huge issue for
us,” said Teresa Bryce Bazemore, president of Philadelphia-
based Radian’s mortgage insurance unit as well as the Mortgage
Insurance Companies of America, a trade group. As reforms are
weighed, “it’s important to make sure there’s a role for” the
private mortgage insurance industry.  The bill also extended the ability for homeowners to avoid
taxes when their debt is written off by lenders in so-called
short sales, in which properties are sold for less than loan
amounts, and in loan modifications meant to keep borrowers in
houses. The forgiven amounts were treated as income before 2007
until the Mortgage Debt Relief Act was passed. That had been set
to expire this week before the extension.  Limiting Foreclosures  Keeping the provision helps housing by limiting
foreclosures, according toJaret Seiberg, senior policy analyst
at Washington Research Group, a unit of Guggenheim Securities.  Repossessions since March have slowed to fewer than 60,000
a month, according to RealtyTrac, compared with 87,542 a month
in the peak year of 2010. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property
values in 20 cities increased 4.3 percent in October from a year
earlier, the biggest 12-month advance since May 2010, after a
crash that cut prices by 35 percent between mid-2006 and last
February.  “It’s only another year, and I think there needs to be a
more permanent and comprehensive solution, but for now short
sales can proceed as well as principal reductions,” said Julia Gordon, director of housing finance and policy at the Center for
American Progress in Washington.  Consumer advocates still want a provision that excludes
loans in which borrowers tapped their home equity while
refinancing to be dropped because it creates a large paperwork
burden for everyone who claims an exemption, Gordon said.  Limit Deductions  This week’s bill will also limit some mortgage-related
deductions by reviving so-called Pease limitations for itemized
filers including individuals earning more than $250,000 and
couples with more than $300,000 in adjusted gross income.
Taxpayers will gradually lose the value of deductions, reducing
them to as little as 20 percent of what they had been, according
to the NAR summary.  Limiting itemized deductions will have “far less impact”
on the use of the interest deductions relative to other
potential changes that could have been introduced, the Realtors
group said. Congress otherwise left unchanged interest breaks
and exclusions for capital gains on sales of owner-occupied
homes of as much as $250,000 for individuals or $500,000 for
couples.  Lawmakers will eventually have to touch the “third rail”
of mortgage-interest deductions, because the benefits are viewed
as disproportionately helping wealthier people, HSH’s Gumbinger
said. Borrowers with loans larger than limits for government-
backed programs are more likely to face changes than those with
second homes, he said.  Unfinished Business  While congress has resolved the so-called fiscal cliff that
could have triggered more than $600 billion in spending cuts and
tax increases, it’s left unfinished business, according to
Seiberg. This includes the need to increase the $16.4 trillion
U.S.  debt ceiling  and expected wrangling over it --which leaves
a “threat to banks and housing,” he wrote in a note yesterday.
The “biggest threat” is that a U.S. default “could cause
interest rates to spike.”  Mortgage rates may already be headed higher after bond
prices declined yesterday on the budget deal, easing concern
that the economy will weaken. A  Bloomberg index  of yields on
Fannie Mae securities used by lenders to package loans rose 0.04
percentage point, to 2.26 percent, up from as low as 2.14
percent last month.  Rates for conventional 30-year refinance transactions rose
0.01 basis point from last week to 3.47 percent, according to a
Deutsche Bank AG report today. Quicken Loans Inc. raised its
rate by 0.125 percentage point to 3.5 percent as did SunTrust
Banks Inc., moving 0.59 percentage point higher to 3.99 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ; 