-- Lower Saxony Opposition Lead Shrinks in Poll Amid Gains by FDP
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-01-03T15:51:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/lower-saxony-opposition-lead-shrinks-in-poll-amid-gains-by-fdp.html
Support for a possible alliance of
 Germany ’s Social Democrats and Greens is shrinking in the state
of  Lower Saxony  less than three weeks before an election, an
Infratest Dimap monthly poll for NDR television  showed .  Combined support for the opposition parties, which seek to
replace a coalition government of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
Christian Democrats and the Free Democrats, fell one percentage
point to 47 percent while backing for the CDU and the FDP rose
one point to 44 percent, the poll showed. While the FDP gained
one point to 4 percent, that would still leave it below the 5-
percent threshold for parliamentary representation, NDR said.  Still, 42 percent of respondents said they would like to
see the FDP back in parliament after the Jan. 20 election, an
increase of 2 percentage points. Support for a future SPD-Green
government dropped 4 points to 52 percent, while 32 percent said
they would like the current CDU-FDP government to continue, a 4-
point gain from a month ago.  FDP chairman Philipp Roesler’s political career may hinge
on the party’s election result in Lower Saxony, his home state
with more than 6 million voters. The FDP leader, who rules
together with Merkel at national level,  declined  to tell Bild-
Zeitung, Germany’s biggest-selling newspaper, whether he’ll run
again for party chairman at a May 3-5 congress in Nuremberg,
saying he wants to await the Lower Saxony result.  Seventy-six percent of FDP voters said the party’s caucus
chief in the country’s lower house of parliament,  Rainer Bruederle , would be a better leader than Roesler, Stern magazine
 reported  this week, citing a poll it commissioned together with
RTL television.  Outcome Open  The outcome of the state election is open as 56 percent of
respondents said they have decided which party to vote for while
16 percent are undecided. Twenty-eight percent said they may not
vote. Infratest interviewed 1,000 people between Dec. 28 and
Jan. 2. The poll had a margin of error of as much as 3.1
percentage points.  In the last Lower Saxony election in 2008, the CDU garnered
42.5 percent, compared with 30.3 percent for the SPD, 8.2
percent for the FDP, 8 percent for the Greens and 7.1 percent
for the Left party.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  