-- Panetta Lets Ex-Missile Defense Chief Keep His Rank
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-01-03T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/panetta-lets-ex-missile-defense-chief-keep-his-rank.html
Defense Secretary Leon Panetta
allowed the former director of the U.S. Missile Defense Agency
to retire at his current rank rather than demoting him after the
Pentagon’s inspector general criticized his management style.  Lieutenant General Patrick O’Reilly stepped down Nov. 19 as
agency head and after 38 years of Army service, including four
as a West Point cadet, at the three-star rank.  “Secretary Panetta has determined that LTG Patrick J.
O’Reilly” served “satisfactorily in the grade of lieutenant
general and should be retired at the grade,” Pentagon spokesman
Navy Lieutenant Commander Nathan Christensen said yesterday in
an e-mailed statement.  O’Reilly “was transferred to the retired rolls effective
Jan. 1,” and Army Secretary John McHugh “concurred with this
decision,” Christensen said.  Panetta wrote a letter of reprimand for O’Reilly’s file
saying the defense secretary disapproved of his management and
conduct at the Missile Defense Agency, according to a defense
official who asked not to be identified discussing the personnel
matter.  Missile Defense Agency spokesman Richard Lehner said in an
e-mail that O’Reilly has “said he would not talk with any
reporters.”  The Missile Defense Agency is responsible for developing,
fielding and upgrading the nation’s ground- and sea-based
missile defense programs. Its top contractors are  Boeing Co. (BA) ,
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ,  Raytheon Co. (RTN) ,  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  and
 Orbital Sciences Corp. (ORB)   ‘Low Morale’  O’Reilly’s treatment of subordinates hurt the agency,
according to a May report by the Pentagon’s inspector general.
Witnesses testified that his “leadership style resulted in a
command climate of fear and low morale,” it said.  Demoting O’Reilly from three-star to two-star status would
have been a career embarrassment and reduced his retirement pay.  The law requires that in order to retire at the three- and
four-star level the secretary of defense must certify to
Congress that an officer has served on active duty
satisfactorily.  The inspector general recommended that McHugh consider
“appropriate corrective action” against O’Reilly, because he
“engaged in a leadership style that was inconsistent” with
military ethics regulations, according to the report by the
watchdog office dated May 2 and released in July.  In comments contained in the inspector general’s report,
O’Reilly disputed its findings, questioning the objectivity and
accuracy of witness testimony and denying that he engaged in
many of the practices described.  The inspector general said “multiple witnesses testified
that LTG O’Reilly yelled and screamed at subordinates in both
public and private settings, such as video teleconferences and
staff meetings.”  Although one employee told investigators O’Reilly’s
approach “helped ensure people were prepared and had their
facts straight” during meetings, his style “was detrimental
because staff could not withstand that type of pressure for long
periods,” the inspector general’s investigators were told.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  