-- Qualcomm Sued by N.Y. for Records of Political Donations
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2013-01-03T23:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/qualcomm-sued-by-n-y-for-records-of-political-donations.html
Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , a maker of microchips
for communications equipment, was sued by  New York  State
Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  for information about how the
company spends investors’ money for political purposes.  The lawsuit, made public today in Delaware Chancery Court
in Wilmington, was filed by the New York State Common Retirement
Fund. It is seeking access to books and records that might shed
light on whether contributions are in the best interests of
shareholders.  The pension fund, which holds stock in public companies,
“has a right to be properly informed about the use of corporate
funds to influence the political process,” DiNapoli said today
in a statement. DiNapoli said he sued after San Diego-based
Qualcomm refused to turn over the data.  The fund is the third-largest public institutional investor
in the U.S., managing $150 billion in assets, and the largest
public pension fund investor in Qualcomm stock, with a
$378 million stake, according to the complaint.  “Qualcomm was surprised by this lawsuit seeking the
company’s records relating to political contributions,”
Christie Thoene, a Qualcomm spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed
statement. “As the plaintiff knows from conversations we have
had in the past, Qualcomm was already in the process of
enhancing our shareholders’ ability to access Qualcomm’s
political contributions on our website.”  Restraints Removed  Since the U.S. Supreme Court in 2010 “removed statutory
restraints” on corporate support for political activities, the
use of shareholder monies for such purposes “has increased
significantly” and needs oversight, fund lawyers said in the
complaint.  Even without legal obligations, dozens of major companies
“voluntarily disclose their use of corporate funds” for state
and federal candidates, political action committees, lobbyists,
trade associations and other endeavors, according to the
complaint.  Qualcomm spent more than $4.5 million on lobbying in 2012,
DiNapoli said. Data from  OpenSecrets.org , which tracks political
donations, shows the company spent more than $6 million on
lobbying each year from 2007 to 2011.  PAC Spending  The Qualcomm Inc. Political Action Committee, based in
 Washington , contributed $166,500 to federal candidates in 2012,
53 percent to Democrats and 48 percent to Republicans, according
to OpenSecrets.org. The PAC raised a total of $342,483 last year
through Nov. 26 and spent $261,737, according to the website.  The top individual recipient listed for 2012 was U.S.
Senator  Orrin Hatch , a Utah Republican, with $7,000. He was
followed by U.S. Representative Greg Walden, an Oregon
Republican, who received $6,500, according to OpenSecrets.org.  Qualcomm fell 30 cents to $64.45 today in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading.  The case is New York State Common Retirement Fund v.
Qualcomm Inc., CA8170, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  