-- Rambus Barred From Enforcing Chip Patents in Micron Case
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-01-03T22:41:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/rambus-barred-from-enforcing-chip-patents-in-micron-case-1-.html
Rambus Inc. (RMBS) , the designer of high-
speed memory chips, was barred by a judge from using 12 of its
patents to demand royalties from Micron Technology Inc. because
it improperly destroyed documents tied to intellectual-property
litigation.  U.S. District Judge Sue Robinson in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
said yesterday the patents are unenforceable as a sanction
against Rambus officials who engaged in a document-destruction
campaign designed to “gain a litigation advantage” in a
patent-infringement  lawsuit  over technology for high-speed
memory chips. Robinson made her ruling after an appeals court
sent the case back for her consideration.  “Rambus’s destruction of evidence was of the worst type:
intentional, widespread, advantage-seeking and concealed,”
Robinson concluded in a 46-page ruling. The judge said the
“only appropriate sanction” was to find the patents
unenforceable.  The ruling comes after a California judge found in
September that Rambus should be sanctioned for destroying
documents in a patent case involving  SK Hynix Inc. (000660) , a South
Korean company that is the world’s second-largest maker of
computer memory chips.  “Despite this result, we remain confident in the strength
of our technology and will move beyond this matter to reach
reasonable agreements,” Carolyn Robinson, a Rambus spokeswoman,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Rambus Falls  Rambus fell 34 cents, or 6.5 percent, to $4.90 today in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares earlier dropped as much
as 8.4 percent. Micron rose 27 cents, or 4.1 percent, to $6.90
in Nasdaq trading.  Daniel Francisco, a Micron spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment yesterday.  Rambus sells memory-chip designs and claims its patents
cover the fundamentals of technology used by memory chipmakers
such as South Korea-based  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and Boise,
Idaho-based Micron. Rambus has been involved in litigation
spawned by its efforts to assert those patents against producers
for a decade.  Micron sued Rambus in 2000, alleging it tried to control
the market for dynamic random access memory chips. The Delaware
case is one of a series in which Rambus demanded royalties on
its patents and chipmakers claim the company wrongly obtained
the patents on an industry standard for so-called DRAM chips.  Earlier in the case, Judge Robinson flagged Rambus’s
document-destruction practices as a concern and sanctioned the
chip designer by ruling the dozen patents unenforceable.  ‘Bad Faith’  Rambus appealed that ruling and the appellate court sent it
back to Robinson so she could more fully explain her conclusions
that company officials acted “in bad faith” by moving to ditch
documents and backup tapes.  The judge found Rambus officials set up “shredding days”
during which employees destroyed as many as 400 boxes-worth of
documents at a time, according to the decision.  Company lawyers also specifically “cleared out” more than
60 patent files and the company destroyed more than 1,200 backup
tapes containing copies of documents, Robinson found.  Despite Rambus’s arguments that the document destruction
was part of routine operations, Robinson found company officials
“acted in bad faith and caused prejudice to Micron” by
destroying the files.  Industry Standards  Rambus’s cases against Micron and SK Hynix are over the
companies’ use of interfaces that are part of dynamic random
access memory that acts as the main memory in computers. DRAM is
built to industry standards and is interchangeable by product.  SK Hynix and Micro claimed Rambus destroyed records that
would have proved Rambus misled the board that sets that
standard, among other things.  The case is  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  v. Rambus Inc., 00-
cv-00792, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  