-- Rig Grounding Revives Debate Over Shell’s Arctic Drilling
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-01-04T01:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/rig-grounding-revives-debate-over-shell-s-arctic-drilling.html
This week’s grounding of a rig off
the coast of  Alaska  adds to a series of mishaps in  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s seven-year quest to tap the vast oil reserves of the
Arctic and emboldened critics who say it can’t be done safely.  The drill ship Kulluk broke free of a tow boat in a storm
Dec. 31 and remained upright though stranded last night on the
coast of Sitkalidak Island, about 60 miles (97 kilometers)
southwest of the town of Kodiak. The crew was evacuated and
there were no signs the vessel was leaking diesel or drilling
chemicals it carried, according to the U.S. Coast Guard.  The Kulluk’s grounding caps a series of episodes that have
dogged Shell’s effort to tap Arctic oil. Environmental groups
today said they would ask President  Barack Obama  to suspend all
current and pending Arctic drilling permits until operators
prove they can work safely in the region’s harsh conditions.  “This string of mishaps by Shell makes it crystal clear
that we are not ready to drill in the Arctic,” Charles Clusen,
director of National Parks and Alaska Projects for the  Natural
Resources Defense Council , said on a conference call. “Shell is
not Arctic-ready. We are asking the Obama administration to
immediately put a hold on all permitting activities.”  The U.S. Coast Guard is sending investigators to start a
probe of the incident, Coast Guard Capitan Paul Mehler said at a
press conference today in Anchorage, Alaska. Mehler is the
federal on-scene coordinator for the Unified Command, a response
group that includes federal agencies and industry
representatives.  Dome Damage  Shell’s drilling setbacks include a containment dome
designed to cap oil spills that was damaged during tests in
September, and another drill ship, the Noble Discoverer, that
slipped its mooring in July and drifted toward shore in the
Aleutian Islands. The troubles forced The Hague-based company to
abandon plans to begin drilling wells last year and perform only
preliminary work.  “It’s just another of the long line of incidents that have
bedeviled Shell throughout the year that prove that operating in
the Arctic safely is a misnomer,” Ben Ayliffe, head of the
Arctic campaign for the environmental group Greenpeace, said in
an interview. “You wonder how much more the U.S. authorities
have to see before it’s clear to everyone that Shell shouldn’t
be operating there.”  Experts Onboard  A team of experts was on board the rig today to conduct
structural assessments, Shell Alaska Operations Manager Sean
Churchfield said at the press conference today. Water breached
some hatches, damaging emergency generators. Additional power
sources may need to be brought on board the rig, he said.  The company cannot yet provide a timeline for removing the
rig from the shoreline, Churchfield said.  Shell said it’s reviewing the accident with an eye toward
improving the safety of the venture.  “We have already begun a review -- working with our marine
experts, partners and suppliers -- of how this sequence of
events, including the failure of multiple engines on the MV
Aiviq towing vessel led to this incident,” Shell said in a
statement. “We intend to use lessons from that review to
strengthen our maritime fleet operations, globally.”  A spill on Sitkalidak Island, which has no docks, air
strips, permanent residents or paved roads, would be difficult
to clean, Andy Schroeder, executive director of the Island
Trails Network in Kodiak, Alaska, and a former Coast Guard
officer, said on today’s call. The island has 20 salmon streams
and is home to the Kodiak Bear.  ‘Futile’ Attempts  “Attempts at oil containment are futile in typical winter
conditions,” said Schroeder as he pointed out the rig is being
lashed by 14-foot seas and 25-knot winds. “A break up of the
rig or a spill in this area would dramatically impact the island
and surrounding environment.”  Shell has spent about $4.5 billion preparing to drill in
the Chukchi and Beaufort Seas on Alaska’s Arctic coast,
including procuring leases and $250 million a year just to
maintain the ability to operate there, according to Tad Patzek,
a former Shell researcher who chairs the Petroleum and
Geosystems Engineering Department at The  University of Texas  at
Austin.  Shell rose 15.50 pence to 2,139.00 pence at the end of
trading today in  London . The shares fell 11 percent last year.  Inhospitable Environment  Patzek said the Arctic is “the most difficult and
inhospitable environment on the planet,” where the ocean can
freeze all the way to the sea floor in places, requiring that
pipes and wellheads be buried. Most drilling equipment must be
delivered by ship from the lower 48 states, increasing the risk
of an accident that can foul the fragile ecosystem.  It’s home to about 240 fish species, 12 species of marine
mammals, 4 species of whales, the polar bear, the walrus, and 6
species of seals. There are 64 species of seabirds that breed in
the Arctic while about 50 million seabirds nest on Alaska’s
coast each summer, Patzek said.  Shell and other operators are willing to take on those
risks to develop what Patzek called the world’s largest untapped
oil reserve.  Still, it may take 10 to 15 years before oil
begins flowing from the region, he said in an interview.  “Shell doesn’t do it because it’s neat to do it but
because there’s an expectation of a very large find of oil,”
Patzek said. “What’s in order in my mind is the go slow
approach. We take our sweet time and develop suitable technology
to produce the resource.”  End Drilling  That is still too fast for Greenpeace and other
environmental groups that renewed calls to end oil drilling in
the Arctic in the wake of the Kulluk mishap. If Shell,  Europe ’s
largest energy producer, can’t get it right, it’s unlikely that
other companies can, Ayliffe said.  A spokesman for the U.S. Bureau of Safety and Environmental
Enforcement, which regulates offshore drilling, declined to
comment on whether it was reconsidering its approval of drilling
in the region.  “All equipment Shell proposes to use in drilling
operations must first satisfy rigorous inspection and testing
standards,” said the spokesman, Nicholas Pardi, in an e-mail.
“Any approved drilling activities will be held to the highest
safety and environmental standards.”  ‘Serious Questions’  U.S. Representative  Edward Markey , a Democrat from
 Massachusetts , wrote that the accident raises “serious
questions” about Shell’s “ability to conduct these operations
safely and in a way that protects the environment” in a letter
to  Marvin Odum , president of Shell Oil’s U.S. unit.  In August, Shell received a permit to begin preparatory
work in the  Chukchi Sea . It announced Sept. 8 that drilling had
started -- the first time in two decades that the U.S. Arctic
sea floor had been touched by a drill bit -- though was forced
the next day to disconnect its rig from the well to avoid
encroaching sea ice.  Days later, the company said it would abandon oil drilling
in Alaska’s Arctic waters for the year.  “This latest accident put lives at risk and created the
risk of significant environmental harm,” Michael LeVine, senior
Pacific counsel for the environmental group Oceana, said in an
interview. “It must be a wake-up call to the government to
reconsider the approvals it’s granted Shell.”  Rig Adrift  The Kulluk has approximately 139,000 gallons of ultra-low-
sulfur diesel and 12,000 gallons of combined lube oil and
hydraulic fluid on board. Shell owns the vessel while  Noble
Corp. (NE) , a rig contractor, provides crew members and manages its
drilling operations, John Breed, a spokesman for Geneva-based
Noble, said in an interview.  The Kulluk was en route to  Seattle  for maintenance after
preliminary drilling in the  Beaufort Sea  off the Alaska coast.
The rig had been adrift and then was temporarily brought back
under control before it went aground. The crew was evacuated
Dec. 29 as a precaution.  The team of salvage experts was lowered onto the rig
yesterday morning by helicopter after severe weather held up
efforts to conduct an assessment earlier this week. The Coast
Guard helicopter and crew also delivered a state-owned emergency
towing system, according to the Unified Command.  Smit Salvage , a unit of  Koninklijke Boskalis Westminster
NV (BOKA) , is heading the salvage operation. The rescue company was
involved in the recovery of the Costa Concordia, which struck a
reef off  Italy  last January.  “In 10, 15 years we should be able to develop much better
and safer technology that will actually allow us to produce some
of the Arctic,” Patzek said. “The key in my mind is not to
make a large mistake on the way there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  