-- Romanian Leu Retreats as Companies, Citizens Cover Euro Loans
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2013-01-03T15:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/romanian-leu-retreats-as-companies-citizens-cover-euro-loans.html
Romania ’s leu retreated after posting
the biggest gain among eastern European currencies in December
as companies took advantage of a cheaper euro to cover their
foreign-currency needs.  The leu dropped 0.3 percent to 4.4189 per euro by 5 a.m. in
Bucharest. The currency strengthened 0.9 percent yesterday,
reaching the highest since May, with local markets closed for
New Year holidays.  “With local markets closed, the relatively large volumes
on which the leu was traded yesterday were provided almost
entirely by foreign players,” Mihai Tantaru, an economist at
ING Bank Romania SA in Bucharest, said in a note today. “The
leu failed to hold on to gains and we think the potential
commercial demand for hard currency will provide a headwind for
any significant leu advance.”  The leu gained 1.5 percent last month, the third-best
performer among emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
in the period. Romanian companies and citizens are buying the
single currency to benefit from that appreciation as they seek
to cover their loan repayments in euros. About 63 percent of
private loans are in foreign currencies, according to central
bank data.  “The stronger leu is great news” for companies and
citizens with loan repayments in euros, Prime Minister Victor Ponta said Dec. 27.  Yields on Romania’s 2016 euro-denominated bonds declined
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point to a record low 2.92
percent today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stability Accord  Investors’ appetite for Romanian assets increased after
political uncertainties eased last month as Ponta was appointed
for a second mandate and his new government won a confidence
vote in parliament on Dec. 21. Ponta is counting on a two-thirds
majority in the legislature to pass a 2013 budget and start
talks with the International Monetary Fund and the European
Union in January to renew the nation’s stability accord.  A joint mission of the international lenders will visit
Romania between Jan. 15 to Jan. 29 to conduct the seventh and
the eight reviews of the country’s current 5 billion euros ($6.6
billion) precautionary accord and discuss the details of this
year’s budget, the IMF said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  