-- Safeway CEO Burd to Retire After 20 Years at Grocery Chain
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-01-03T21:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/safeway-ceo-burd-to-retire-after-20-years-at-supermarket-chain.html
Safeway Inc. (SWY) , the second-largest U.S.
grocery-store chain, said Chief Executive Officer Steven Burd,
63, will retire in May after 20 years at the company.  The board will begin a search for a successor and will
consider candidates from inside and outside the company,
Pleasanton, California-based Safeway said yesterday in a
statement. Burd, who is leaving to have more personal time and
pursue his interest in health care, will retire at the company’s
annual meeting on May 14.  Safeway’s  revenue  growth slowed to about 1.3 percent in
2012 from about 6.3 percent the previous year, while net income
fell for a second straight year, based on analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The food retailer, along with other
traditional supermarkets, is facing more competition from big-
box discounters such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and  Target Corp. (TGT) 
and higher-end stores such as  Whole Foods Market Inc. (WFM)   While Burd helped turn around the business, he’s “come
under a little fire in recent years,” said  Joe Feldman , a New
York-based analyst at Telsey Advisory Group. “There’s still
opportunity to drive improved performance within the core
supermarkets.”  Robert Edwards, Safeway’s chief financial officer, and
Larree Renda, executive vice president, are possible CEO
candidates, Feldman said.  Burd started at Safeway in 1992 as president and was
promoted to CEO the next year. He became chairman in 1998. He
also serves on the  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  board.  Safeway  fell  0.1 percent to $18.34 at the close in New
York. The shares dropped 14 percent last year.  Kroger Co. is the biggest U.S. grocery-store chain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  