-- Samsung to Sell Tizen-Based Handsets After Motorola Deal
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2013-01-03T09:52:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/samsung-to-sell-tizen-based-handsets-after-google-motorola-deal.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
largest seller of mobile phones, said it will start selling
smartphones this year featuring the Tizen operating system
backed by  Intel Corp .  “We plan to release new, competitive Tizen devices within
this year and will keep expanding the lineup depending on market
conditions,” Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung said in an e-
mailed statement today. The company didn’t elaborate on model
specifications, prices or timeframe for their debut.  The new handsets will come as Samsung looks to reduce its
reliance on  Google (GOOG)  Inc.’s Android operating system after the
Internet search company  acquired  handset maker Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc. for $12.5 billion in May. Executives from Intel,
Samsung,  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437)  and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  formed the Tizen
Association last year to  support  the open-source software.  “The Tizen was born as Samsung hoped to lighten its
growing dependence on Google on concerns that its top position
in the smartphone market may weaken following the Google-
Motorola tie-up,” Byun Han Joon, an analyst at KB Investment &
Securities in Seoul, said by phone today. “Intel always wanted
to boost its presence in the mobile CPU market.”  Japan’s Yomiuri Shimbun newspaper reported Dec. 31 that
Samsung will release a Tizen-based smartphone through wireless
carrier NTT Docomo later this year. The newspaper cited sources
it didn’t identify.  Google, Apple  Mountain View, California-based Google, operator of the
world’s most-popular search engine, plans to devote more
attention to mobile devices as its rivalry with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
accelerates. Samsung is the biggest seller of devices running
Android in the $219 billion global smartphone market.  Samsung reported record profit in the three months ended
Sept. 30 amid surging sales of its Galaxy smartphone. More than
two-thirds of the earnings were generated by the
 telecommunications business , according to the company.  Samsung shipped 56.9 million smartphones in the third
quarter, giving it a record 35 percent market share, compared
with 17 percent for Apple, researcher  Strategy Analytics  said in
October. In total handset sales, including basic types, Samsung
remained the top seller, researcher IDC said separately.  The LiMo Foundation and Linux Foundation said in September
2011 they would jointly develop Tizen for use in devices
including mobile phones and TVs.  Chase Perrin, an official with the  San Ramon , California-
based  Tizen Association , said the group wouldn’t be able to
immediately respond to an e-mail sent after regular business
hours.  In 2009, Samsung released its Bada platform, which is
mainly used in lower-end smartphones sold in Europe and emerging
markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  