-- Singh Steel Revival Boosts Tata-to-SAIL Outlook: Corporate India
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-01-03T11:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/singh-steel-revival-boosts-tata-to-sail-outlook-corporate-india.html
India ’s steel ministry forecast
demand for the alloy will quicken after Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  eased infrastructure investment rules to revive an economy
that’s expanding at the slowest pace in a decade.  Consumption will probably increase 8 percent in the three
months to March 31 and in the year from April 1, Sayan Sen,
manager at the ministry’s Joint Plant Committee, which forecasts
demand, said in an interview. He declined to estimate sales in
the final quarter of last year, pending an official release.
Deliveries probably expanded 4 percent in the period, said
Abhisar Jain, an analyst at Mumbai-based Centrum Broking Ltd.  The nation’s biggest producer,  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) , had the
slowest sales growth since 2009 in the three months to Sept. 30,
while  Steel Authority of India Ltd. , the second-largest,
reported a decline. Singh last month unveiled plans to
accelerate infrastructure approvals and make it easier to
acquire land for factories, aiming to garner $1 trillion of
investments in roads, ports and  power plants  by 2017.  “The reforms will provide a fillip to the economy,” Tata
Steel Managing Director H.M. Nerurkar said in an e-mail. “A
single-window clearance for mega projects will generate activity
in the power and roadways sectors” which coupled with the
predicted reduction in borrowing costs this month will provide
impetus to manufacturing and consumer durables, he said.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao forecasts
the $1.8 trillion economy will slow to 5.7 percent in the year
ending March, the weakest pace since 2002. That may prompt the
central bank to cut borrowing costs by 50 basis points by March
31, according to 11 of 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Share Performance  Optimism about the policy changes and lower interest rates
has driven up steel shares in the past month. Tata Steel shares
increased 11 percent in December, the biggest monthly  gain  since
January, while Steel Authority, the nation’s second-largest
producer, jumped 12 percent.  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL) , which is facing an
iron ore shortage at its main factory in South India, increased
9.3 percent in the period. Tata Steel and Steel Authority don’t
face raw material shortages because they own iron ore mines.  Tata Steel rose 1 percent to 442.30 rupees, the highest in
six months, at close in Mumbai. Steel Authority fell 0.9 percent
to 95.15 rupees, while JSW Steel gained 0.5 percent to 831.10
rupees.  Industrial Production  India’s cabinet on Dec. 13 approved changes clarifying a
century-old law governing purchase of land for industry and
highways, making it mandatory for the buyers to win the approval
of 80 percent of landholders, Parliamentary Affairs Minister
Kamal Nath said on Dec. 13. For public-private partnership
projects, 70 percent need to give consent, he said.  “Investment expenditure has really dried up,” said Jayant Acharya, director at Mumbai-based JSW Steel, the nation’s third-
largest steelmaker. “If the government’s and the central bank’s
measures come together, it’ll be good for investment
expenditure.”  The nation’s  industrial production  recovered to grow at the
fastest pace in more than a year in October after the government
overhauled policies to boost growth in  Asia ’s third-largest
economy. The rebound suggests an improvement in the economy next
year,  Jonathan Cavenagh , a strategist in  Singapore  at Westpac
Banking, said on Dec. 19.  India Demand  Steel demand in India will probably outpace the World Steel
Association’s October forecast of a 3.2 percent increase in
global steel consumption. World demand grew 2.1 percent last
year, compared with a 6.2 percent increase in 2011.  Mumbai-based Tata Steel, which started a 3 million ton unit
in the eastern state of Jharkhand in November, plans to produce
an additional 1 million metric tons from its factory in
Jamshedpur in east India by March. India’s steel demand may rise
by about 5 percent this fiscal year and may surge to 7 percent
in the year starting April 1, Nerurkar said.  State-run Steel Authority is in the final stages of adding
4 million tons of capacity this quarter. The New Delhi-based
company plans to more than triple production to 45 million tons
of hot metal in the next eight years, Chairman C.S. Verma said
on Nov. 1.  In November, the environment ministry approved a plan for a
JSW Steel unit to raise capacity by 67 percent to 5 million tons
and build an adjacent pellet facility. Parent JSW Steel plans to
triple capacity to 40 million tons by 2020.  ‘Investor Confidence’  “It appears that the worst is over for the steel sector,”
said A.S. Firoz, chief economist at the nation’s steel ministry.
“While the measures being taken now will show up in investments
with a time lag, such actions generate lot of confidence among
investors and are good for steel.”  JSW Ispat Steel Ltd. (JSWI) , a unit of JSW Steel that mainly
produces flat steel products used in cars and electronic
appliances, is expecting a surge in demand as buyers replenish
stocks following a rise in consumption, Ashok Agarwal, joint
chief executive officer said on Dec. 28.  “After an  interest rate  cut, there’s bound to be higher
demand -- both pent-up and new,” said Centrum’s Jain. “That’ll
drive volumes and prices.” Prices may rise about 3 percent this
quarter, he said.  Domestic use of flat steel products, which surged 20
percent before the 2008 global recession, should grow by at
least 10 percent this calendar year, Ankit Miglani, director at
 ArcelorMittal (MT) ’s Indian unit  Uttam Galva Steels Ltd. (UTTM) , said on
Dec. 28. No price increases are expected this month as
production will rise following the start of new units, he said.  Homes, Malls  DLF Ltd. (DLFU) , India’s largest builder of homes and shopping
malls, will accelerate projects around the nation’s capital in
the next three to four months to benefit from higher demand,
Senior Executive Director Sriram Khattar said on Dec. 21. A
spurt in real estate activity will raise demand for long steel
products that comprise more than half of local consumption.  “The last few years have been a period of lost
opportunities for the housing sector, which is the engine of
growth,” Lalit Kumar Jain, president of the Confederation of
Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India, said in a phone
interview. “This fiscal year has been bad and any improvement
in demand will depend on government measures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  