-- CapitaLand to Exit U.K., India Projects, Reassess Australand
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-01-03T09:50:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/singapore-s-capitaland-realigns-into-four-main-businesses.html
CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL) , the Southeast  Asia 
developer that is reorganizing into four main units to help
focus on its key markets, said it will look to exit some
projects in the U.K.,  India  and the  Middle East , and reassess
its investment in  Australia ’s Australand Property Group.  The Singapore-based developer,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest,
will exit commercial and residential investments in the U.K.,
India and Gulf Cooperation Council nations, Chief Executive
Officer Lim Ming Yan told reporters in  Singapore  today. It also
is re-examining its 59 percent in Sydney-based Australand. The
exits planned in India, U.K. and the Middle East won’t include
the company’s serviced residence and malls businesses, Lim said.  CapitaLand, which in the past year announced top management
changes and the retirement of its founder, is focusing on  China 
and Singapore, and seeking to exit businesses where it doesn’t
have a significant presence. The group will be realigned into
four divisions: CapitaLand Singapore, CapitaLand China,
CapitaMalls Asia and The Ascott Ltd., the developer said in a
statement to the Singapore stock exchange today.  “We are realigning our core businesses along geographic
lines, Singapore and China,” Lim said at a briefing. “We will
do a strategic review for our position in Australand and a
review on the rest of the investments we have in the region.”  CapitaLand has an investment in an office and information
technology park project in the suburbs of Mumbai and an office
building in London, according to its 2011 annual report.  It didn’t make sense for the developer to “fully engage”
in India at this time and it will get out of one “small”
project there as well as an office building in  London , Lim said
without identifying the developments.  New Roles  The company’s shares gained 2.1 percent to S$3.84 at the
close of trading in Singapore, while CapitaMalls Asia Ltd. rose
3.5 percent to S$2.06, its biggest gain since Nov. 22.  CapitaLand named Lim as president and chief executive
officer of the group after Liew Mun Leong retired last year from
the company he helped create almost 12 years ago. Lim, 49, who
was the chief operating officer at CapitaLand, started in his
new role on Jan. 1. Lim was the CEO of CapitaLand China Holdings
for nine years until 2009, where he helped build the developer’s
China unit, which contributes more than a third to the
developer’s assets. Lim returned to Singapore to helm The Ascott,
CapitaLand’s serviced residence business.  CapitaLand Singapore, which will include the group’s
residential and commercial business in the island-state, will be
helmed by Wen Khai Meng, while Jason Leow will be responsible
for the group’s China business, the developer said.  Australand rejected an offer from Sydney-based GPT Group
last month.  Mirvac Group , a property trust also located in
Sydney, said it was considering making a takeover offer for
Australand, two people with knowledge of the matter said Dec. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  