-- Skadden Arps, Linklaters, Hughes Hubbard: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-01-03T19:36:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/skadden-arps-linklaters-hughes-hubbard-business-of-law.html
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom
LLP regained the lead among mergers and acquisitions legal
advisers in 2012, which had a 7.8 percent drop in deal volume.  The  law firm , based in  New York , ranked No. 1 last year
with $294.5 billion in transactions, up from $287.4 billion
reported in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
firm participated in 13 percent of global mergers and
acquisitions by market value.  London-based Linklaters LLP was second, up eight spots from
2011, with $210.3 billion in transactions for 9 percent of the
market. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP was third with $204.7
billion in transactions. Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, which ranked
first in 2011, fell to fifth place.  The total volume of M&A transactions fell to $2.22 trillion
in 2012 from $2.41 trillion in 2011, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Recession fears in  Europe , the cooling of
developing economies such as  China  and uncertainty about $600
billion in automatic U.S. government spending cuts and tax
increases, known as the fiscal cliff, weighed on decision makers
and damped the pace of deals through much of last year.  “Simple year-over-year comparisons aren’t necessarily
perfect when looking at recent M&A cycles,” Matt Herman, head
of Freshfields’s U.S. corporate practice, said in an e-mail.  “For example, 2011 was influenced by a very strong first
four months, carried over from a spike that woke a dormant
market in August 2010. Similarly, while the general assumption
was that 2012 was going to start off strong, it didn’t pan
out.”  Skadden Arps  worked on 241 completed and pending deals for
the year including Tokyo-based Softbank Corp.’s planned purchase
of a stake in Sprint Nextel Corp. and Anheuser-Busch InBev NV’s
$20.1 billion purchase of half of Grupo Modelo SAB that it
didn’t already own.  The law firm was in the top spot most recently in 2010.  Eight of the top 10 legal advisers are U.S. firms, and
purchases of companies in the Americas accounted for roughly
half the global deal volume.  The Americas accounted for $1.37 trillion in deals compared
with $891.7 billion in Europe, and $531.6 billion in the  Asia 
Pacific region, excluding Japan.  Japan accounted for $207.1 billion in deals followed by the
 Middle East  and  Africa  with $85.4 billion, according to the data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP led in deals involving private-
equity dollars. The law firm was fourth overall with $183.7
billion in transactions.  Deals  Shearman, Norton Rose Advise on ArcelorMittal Unit Stake  Shearman & Sterling LLP is advising  ArcelorMittal (MT)  Mines
Canada Inc., which is selling a 15 percent interest in its
company to a group led by  China Steel Corp. (2002)  and Posco for $1.1
billion. Norton Rose LLP also acted for ArcelorMittal and
ArcelorMittal Mines Canada.  The Shearman & Sterling team included mergers and
acquisitions partners George Casey and George Karafotias.  Norton Rose, with a team led by Dawn Whittaker and
including Eric Reither, Robert Eberschlag, Janet Howard and
Jeremy Grushcow, mergers and acquisitions and mining; Barry
Segal, tax; Denis Gascon and Kevin Ackhurst, investment Canada,
is representing ArcelorMittal in connection with the mergers and
acquisitions, joint venture and off-take transactions.  A  Norton Rose  team led by Robert Borduas and including
Mario Caron and Miguel Manzano, real property/mining; Derek
Chiasson, tax; Richard Desgagnes, infrastructure; Jean Piette,
environmental; Francois Cote, employment and labor; Martin
Rochette, pension and benefits, assisted ArcelorMittal Mines
Canada with the joint-venture transaction and a reorganization
of its Quebec iron ore and infrastructure operations.  China Steel  will take 3.68 percent for $270 million, Steve
Lee, executive vice president at Taiwan’s biggest steelmaker,
said yesterday by phone. Posco didn’t say how much it will pay.  The deal gives the group access to mines producing about 40
percent of Canada’s iron ore, according to ArcelorMittal’s
website, as the cost of the raw material rises faster than steel
prices. ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steelmaker, is
studying selling about 30 percent of the unit to try to reduce
its debt, a person familiar with the matter said on Oct. 20.  Posco (005490)  and China Steel will agree long-term iron ore off-
take agreements proportionate to their interests in the venture,
Kaohsiung, Taiwan-based China Steel said yesterday in a
statement on its website. Other members of the group are
“financial investors,” the company said without elaborating.  Kim Ji Young, a spokeswoman for Posco, the largest South
Korean steelmaker, didn’t say how much the company will invest.  For more, click here.  Avis Embraces Car-Sharing Trend With $491 Million Zipcar Deal  Kirkland & Ellis LLP is advising  Avis Budget Group Inc. (CAR) , on
its agreement to buy short-term rental pioneer  Zipcar Inc. (ZIP)  for
$491 million, signaling a shift in the industry to embracing
drivers who don’t want to own cars. Latham & Watkins LLP advised
Zipcar.  The Kirkland team was led by mergers and acquisitions
partners David Fox and Daniel Wolf and included mergers and
acquisitions partner Michael Brueck.  Latham & Watkins’s Boston-based corporate team was led by
partners John Chory and Philip Rossetti. Advice was also
provided on tax matters by partner David Kahn in  Boston ; on
benefits and compensation matters by partner David Della Rocca
in Washington; and on antitrust matters by partner Karen
Silverman in  San Francisco .  With the Zipcar deal, Avis Budget becomes the latest
company to pursue the fast-growing market for young, urban
customers who want to rent cars by the hour, rather than owning
their own vehicles. Enterprise Holdings Inc. and  Hertz Global
Holdings Inc. (HTZ) , the two largest U.S. car-rental companies, have
already rolled out offerings for such customers.  Avis Budget Chief Executive Officer Ron Nelson said he’d
been “somewhat dismissive of car sharing in the past,” in a
call with analysts today. He said he had a change of heart when
he realized how much growth and profit potential there is in
providing hourly rentals to “younger, more wired consumers” in
big cities and on college campuses worldwide.  For more, click here.  Moves  Products Liability Partner Cruz-Alvarez Joins Hughes Hubbard  Rafael Cruz-Alvarez, a litigator who has handled tobacco
litigation defense as well as other products liability defense
cases, is leaving Shook, Hardy & Bacon LLP to join the Miami
office of Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP.  Cruz-Alvarez has worked on the Engle progeny smoking and
health cases filed throughout the state of  Florida  and acted as
lead counsel for Lorillard Tobacco Company and  Philip Morris USA 
in smoking and health cases, the firm said.  He has handled other types of product liability defense
cases as well, such as cases in the pharmaceutical sector
including Redux/Pondimin (Fen-Phen) diet drug claims and
Accutane claims, the firm said.  “I look forward to working with him closely on the Hughes
Hubbard team serving Lorillard Tobacco Co. as national
coordinating counsel, including the thousands of cases here in
Florida,” Nicolas Swerdloff, managing partner of Hughes
Hubbard’s Miami office said in a statement. “He will also add
additional depth to our already strong international litigation
practice in Miami.”  Hughes Hubbard has lawyers at eight offices in the U.S.,
Paris and Tokyo.  Goldman Sachs Equities Lawyer Joins Morgan Lewis in New York  Equity derivatives and equity sales and trading attorney
Will Iwaschuk, has joined the New York office of  Morgan Lewis  &
Bockius LLP as a partner in the investment management and
securities industry practice. He was most recently Vice
President and associate general counsel at Goldman Sachs & Co.,
covering equities and options market making and specialists
businesses, and equity derivatives sales and trading businesses,
the firm said.  At Goldman Sachs, Iwaschuk helped plan for and implement
changes under Title VII of Dodd-Frank and the Volcker Rule
globally. He also represented the company before the Securities
and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission.  “Few lawyers have worked as closely with equity
derivatives trading desks, particularly in the delta-one space,
as Will has, or have as much experience advising on difficult
Dodd-Frank derivatives and Volcker Rule issues,” Steven Stone,
leader of Morgan Lewis’s investment management and securities
industry practice said in a statement.  Morgan Lewis has more than 1,600 legal professionals and
specialists in 24 offices across the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Insurance and Reinsurance Lawyer Joins Edwards Wildman  Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP hired Aileen Meehan as a new
partner in the firm’s insurance and reinsurance department in
the New York office. She was previously with Day Pitney LLP, the
firm said.  Meehan focuses her practice on public and private mergers
and acquisitions, stock and asset acquisitions, purchases and
sales of private companies, and offerings of debt and equity
securities, primarily in the insurance, retail and health-care
sectors. She also counsels clients on matters related to SEC
filings and corporate governance matters.  Edwards Wildman has 650 lawyers in 15 offices in the U.S.,
 London  and Asia.  Firm News  Blank Rome’s Steinman Elected New York Supreme Court Justice  Blank Rome LLP partner Leonard D. Steinman has been elected
to the New York state Supreme Court for the 10th Judicial
District. His 14-year term as a New York state Supreme Court
Justice began Jan. 1.  Steinman was a partner in Blank Rome’s corporate litigation
group. He has practiced for more than 28 years, handling high-
stakes litigation in business fraud disputes, contract claims,
governmental investigations, and family trust and estate
disputes, the firm said.  “Len has been a valued and respected partner at the firm
and we wish him great success as he embarks on his new and
admirable role of serving the people of New York as a member of
the judiciary,” Alan J. Hoffman, Blank Rome co-chairman and
managing partner said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  