-- South Korea Cites Bias in Move to Ban Japanese Ship Lines
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2013-01-04T08:15:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/south-korea-cites-bias-in-move-to-ban-japan-ship-firms-freight.html
South Korea’s government is moving to
bar foreign shipping lines from contracts in the state-run
energy sector as it supports domestic companies struggling to
recover from the global downturn.  State-controlled  Korea Electric Power Corp. (KEP)  on Dec. 21 held
an auction for its five units that effectively restricted
participants to domestic shipping lines for the first time. The
contracts, worth about $2 billion, require bidders to partner
with another South Korean company and build nine ships in local
shipyards that will carry coal from such countries as  Australia .  South Korea’s biggest shipping lines may be set to benefit
from the restrictions after  Hanjin Shipping Co. (117930) ,  Hyundai
Merchant Marine Co. (011200)  and  STX Pan Ocean Co. (028670)  posted losses in the
first nine months of 2012. The move also threatens to further
heighten economic tensions with Japan, whose carriers hauled
about 25 percent of South Korea’s coal shipments in 2011.  “State generators are making these restrictions for the
first time upon demand from domestic shipping companies,” said
Yun Hee Do, a shipping and utility analyst at  Korea  Investment &
Securities Co. in Seoul. “Domestic shipping companies are very
desperate, and state firms have given in as talk of the country
giving away its wealth is gaining momentum.”  The Dec. 21 bid, which involves delivering coal to
electricity producers over 18 years, also comes as South Korea’s
transportation ministry says it’s looking into whether Japanese
companies in general have excluded South Korean shipping lines
from contacts to haul coal and other materials. The ministry is
considering formally asking South Korean power companies to
exclude Japanese shipping firms in reciprocity, said Jung Kyu
Sam, a deputy director of the ministry’s shipping division.  Unfavorable Treatment?  “There’s suspicion that our shipping companies are treated
unfavorably in Japan, and we are checking the facts through our
embassy in Japan and the Korea Shipping Association,” Jung said
in a telephone interview. “We are mapping out related
enforcements, and we will request that our power generators
apply restrictions if the suspicion is true.”  A shipping spat would follow flaring diplomatic tensions
between Asia’s second- and fourth-largest economies. The two
sides failed to renew a currency swap deal after  Lee Myung Bak 
in August became the first South Korean president to visit an
island chain claimed by both nations. Japan’s new Prime
Minister, Shinzo Abe, has vowed to secure sufficient funds for
the armed forces and coast guard to defend Japan’s territory.  South Korea’s parliament in November approved a revised law
for the shipping industry that says authorities can ban South
Korea units of foreign firms from bids if their countries
violate reciprocity in dealings with South Korean shipping
lines. The new  guidelines  take effect in March.  Japanese Shipping  Japanese shipping lines such as  Nippon Yusen K.K. (9101) ,  Kawasaki
Kisen Kaisha Ltd. (9107) , and Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. could bid for
long-term contracts with Korea Electric in international
auctions until 2009, when the utility required foreign
participants to have an offshore business license registered in
South Korea.  No locally registered unit of a shipping company outside of
South Korea participated in the Dec. 21 bid, which collapsed
because one of the two South Korean consortiums didn’t meet
requirements, said Kim Heo Jin, the senior manager of fuel
procurement at Korea Southern Power Co. It is in charge of the
auction process for Korea Electric’s power generators.  The auction will be held again on Jan. 9. STX Pan Ocean and
Hanjin Shipping are reviewing whether to participate, according
to e-mailed responses to a Bloomberg News query.  ‘Thin Orders’  “We hope that the contract helps the country’s shipping
and shipbuilding industries, which are facing thin orders,” Kim
said.  Hyundai Merchant and Hanjin Shipping, which have Japanese
units, declined to comment on auction practices in Japan.  Korea Electric’s five power generators have picked Japanese
shipping companies to build 18 vessels so far since 2007,
according to data from the Korea Shippers Association. Japanese
shipping lines shipped 16.54 million metric tons, or 25 percent
of Korea’s thermal coal imports, in 2011, and the fares paid to
Japanese shippers have totaled $2.26 billion since 2007,
according to the association.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) , Japan’s biggest power operator,
doesn’t have rules in place that restrict the participation of
South Korean shipping lines, spokesman Masateru Araki said by
telephone.  ‘Doesn’t Matter’  “When we seek companies for fuel transportation, we take
into consideration conditions such as securing safety in
transportation, the company’s financial stability and
possibility of long-term relationship with the contractor,”
Araki said. “If those conditions are satisfied, it doesn’t
matter for us whether the company is from Japan or not.”  Tepco doesn’t disclose which shipping lines are used for
fuel transportation, Araki said. The company uses both public
and private tenders, he said.  The Japanese Shipowners’ Association will consider taking
action if Korea Electric officially bans Japanese shipping lines
from contracts, said Takashi Ishikawa, a general manager in the
planning division of the organization, by phone in  Tokyo .  South Korean shipping companies such as STX Pan Ocean and
Hanjin Shipping, as well as shipbuilders including Hyundai Heavy
Industries Co., stand to benefit from the new restrictions, said
Um Kyung A, an analyst at Shinyoung Securities Co. in  Seoul .  Securing Business  “In a tough environment, securing business that assures
earnings for several years is good,” said Um, who has a buy
recommendation on Hanjin Shipping and a neutral recommendation
on Hyundai Merchant.  Shares of Hanjin Shipping fell 1.2 percent at the close
today in Seoul, paring this year’s gain to 5.9 percent. Hyundai
Merchant dropped 1.1 today and is down 4.5 percent for the year.
Korea’s benchmark  Kospi index  is up 0.8 percent so far in 2013.  Japanese state companies have excluded Korean shipping
companies from auctions, raising questions of fairness, Kwon Eun
Hee, a lawmaker from South Korea’s ruling  New Frontier Party ,
told Korea Electric executives during an Oct. 17 parliamentary
audit, according to a statement distributed to reporters.  Japanese units of Korean shipping companies have never
received an order from a Japanese electricity company, the  Korea
Shipowners Association , which has more than 190 members, said in
an e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg.  “There’s no regulatory barrier in  Japan , but it’s true
there are invisible barriers,” said Lim Jae Kook, director of
the Institute of Distribution & Logistics with the Korea Chamber
of Commerce & Industry, one of the country’s top business lobby
groups. “In contrast, many of our consignors are selecting
shipping companies, driven by cost factors. This allows non-
Korean shipping companies to take orders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  