-- Spain Deposits Rose in November, Easing Pressure on Bank Funding
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-01-03T14:35:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/spain-deposits-rose-in-november-easing-pressure-on-bank-funding.html
Spanish  deposits  gained in November,
suggesting pressure on bank funding is easing as the country’s
second-largest lender is raising money from bond investors.  Corporate and household deposits climbed 0.7 percent from
October to 1.46 trillion euros ($1.9 trillion), the Bank of
Spain in Madrid said on its website today. Retail and corporate
 deposits  rose 2 percent in November from the previous month,
according to separate data from the  European Central Bank .  Spain’s banks have been able to start stabilizing their
 deposits , a core source of funding, since ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s July pledge to do everything necessary to defend the
euro, said  John Raymond , an analyst at CreditSights Inc. in
 London . That’s key for banks to keep funding costs under control
and continue supplying  credit  to companies, he said.  “It’s another piece of good news,” Raymond said. “It’s
still hard to know whether it’s sustainable.”  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , Spain’s second-biggest
bank, helped the resumption of bond sales in Europe after the
holiday period. The bank is selling 1.5 billion euros of five-
year bonds priced to yield 295 basis points more than the
benchmark swaps rate, according to people familiar with the
transaction who declined to be identified before it’s completed.  Concerns about the future of the euro and the cost of
Spain’s banking cleanup helped accelerate the outflow of
deposits from the country’s banks last year. Core company and
household deposits slumped 5.3 percent between June and August,
according to Bank of Spain data.  While Spain’s banks have since been able to restore
confidence, core deposits were down 7.2 percent in November from
a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  