-- Spain Registered Unemployment Falls for 1st Month in Five
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-01-03T09:29:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/spain-registered-unemployment-falls-for-1st-month-in-five.html
Spain ’s  registered unemployment  fell
for the first time in five months in December as  service
industries  boosted hiring over the holiday season.  The number of people registering for jobless benefits fell
by 59,094 from November to 4.8 million, the Labor Ministry in
 Madrid  said today. That’s the best result on record for
December.  The figures suggest an interruption in the retrenchment of
the euro area’s fourth-largest economy, which the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development predicts will  shrink 
for a second straight year in 2013. Economists have forecast an
index of service industry activity due to be published tomorrow
will show a contraction in December.  “This is quite unique for a December,” Martin Van Vliet,
an economist at ING Bank in Amsterdam, said in a telephone
interview. “The recession could end in the second half but I’m
not holding my breath. With the sheer scale of fiscal tightening
in the pipeline I’m still a bit cautious.”  The number of service-sector workers registered as jobless
fell by 49,438. At the same time, 4,325 more construction
workers and 2,794 more manufacturing workers were unemployed.  Companies are seeking to reduce costs as the deepest
austerity measures in the nation’s democratic history undermine
domestic demand amid a recession that has spread to the 17-
nation euro region.  IAG (IAG)  is in talks with unions to shrink
Spanish airline Iberia’s fleet by 4,500 jobs, while nationalized
lender Bankia group pledged to axe 6,000 after securing European
aid.  The OECD sees unemployment in Spain, already the highest in
the European Union, reaching 27 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  