-- Statoil, Det Norske Report ‘Very Good’ Well Results at Sverdrup
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-01-03T11:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/statoil-det-norske-report-very-good-well-results-at-sverdrup.html
Statoil ASA (STL)  and partner  Det Norske
Oljeselskap ASA (DETNOR)  said an appraisal well confirmed “good
reservoir properties” at their Johan Sverdrup oil discovery,
which may be the biggest off  Norway  in almost 40 years.  “The well results are very good,” Trondheim-based Det
Norske said today in a statement. The well, in the Kvitsoey
Basin off the coast of Stavanger, proved a 30-meter (100-foot)
gross oil column, it said.  The North Sea Johan Sverdrup find, which may hold 1.7
billion to 3.3 billion barrels of oil equivalent, has helped
rekindle interest in Norway’s energy industry after the nation’s
oil output fell by half in a decade as deposits aged. The state
statistics bureau expects investments to reach a record 208
billion kroner ($37 billion) this year.  Statoil, which operates the PL 265 license, will publish
new resource estimates for Johan Sverdrup in the fourth quarter,
when the partners will decide on a development plan, spokesman
Ola Anders Skauby said by phone. The Stavanger-based company had
previously said updated estimates would be given this quarter.  Today’s result “reduces the downside risk for the updated
resource estimate,” Teodor Sveen Nilsen, an analyst at Swedbank
First Securities, said in a note to clients. “This well
indicated higher probability for a midpoint estimate above the
current 2.5 billion barrels of oil equivalent.”  A reserves figure at the top end of the range would make
Sverdrup the third-biggest find off Norway since oil was first
found in 1969 and the largest since the Statfjord field in 1974.  Reduce Uncertainty  Skauby declined to comment on the impact of the well
results on reserve estimates, saying only that “we see a need
to continue working on the appraisal program” to reduce the
uncertainty of the forecast.  Statoil will drill one to three appraisal wells this year
at the PL 265 area, where it’s “satisfied” with the appraisal
program so far, the company said in a separate statement. It
owns 40 percent of the permit, Det Norske has 20 percent, Petoro
AS 30 percent and  Lundin Petroleum AB (LUPE)  10 percent.  Lundin operates the other license at Sverdrup, PL 501, with
a 40 percent stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  