-- Swaps Registry, Prepaid Cards, Goldman Stock: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-01-03T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/swaps-registry-prepaid-cards-goldman-stock-compliance.html
Units of JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  are among banks that
registered as swap dealers under the Dodd-Frank Act that
requires higher capital, collateral and trading standards.  The list of firms referred to as “ provisionally
registered ” included  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , Macquarie Bank Ltd.,
Newedge USA LLC,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Standard Chartered Bank (STAN) ,
according to the website of the  National Futures Association . No
firms were listed as major swap participants, a lower threshold
under Dodd Frank for activity that may capture energy companies
or hedge funds.  The rules, more than two years in the making, will improve
oversight of a market that for three decades has largely escaped
federal regulation, Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Chairman Gary Gensler said Oct. 10.  The financial firms that dominate swap dealing generate
more than $30 billion in annual profit, according to an estimate
from consulting firm Oliver Wyman, a unit of  Marsh & McLennan
Cos. (MMC)  Companies with $8 billion or more in dealing business must
register with the CFTC.  The biggest swaps dealer in the U.S. is JPMorgan, followed
by  Bank of America Corp.   Compliance Policy  ‘Too Big to Fail’ Benefits Face Congressional Watchdog Scrutiny  U.S. banks’ benefits from being “too big to fail” will be
examined by congressional watchdogs in response to a bipartisan
request from senators who say the government hasn’t done enough
to prevent future bailouts.  The Government Accountability Office said yesterday that it
plans to study the “economic benefit” banks such as JPMorgan
Chase & Co.,  Bank of America  Corp. and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in
response to a request from Senators David Vitter, a Louisiana
Republican, and Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democrat.  Vitter and Brown made the request that the GAO look at bank
holding companies with assets more than $500 billion after
leaders in the Republican-controlled House refused to take up
their Senate bill, which passed unanimously.  Lawmakers and regulators have said that Dodd-Frank, the
2010 measure enacted in response to the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression, ended too-big-to-fail by creating
ways to unwind complex banks without taxpayer assistance.  The study sought by Vitter and Brown would look at whether
the pricing of the banks’ assets relative to their risk profile
results in a perception that they would get bailouts if needed,
whether they get favorable funding as a result of increased
credit ratings based on the view that they are too big to fail
and how they benefit from access to the Federal Reserve’s
discount window.  Nine systemically important banks got a total of $125
billion in taxpayer aid from the Troubled Asset Relief Program
after a credit freeze following the September 2008 collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Egypt Religious Scholars to Review Draft Sukuk Law, MENA Says  Egypt ’s Grand Sheikh of Al-Azhar, Ahmed el-Tayeb, asked a
panel of senior religious scholars to issue its opinion about a
new draft law for sukuk, the state-run Middle East News Agency
reported. President Mohamed Mursi has referred the draft to el-
Tayeb to determine how compliant it is with Islamic law, MENA
said.  The  Finance Ministry  has asked for the quick implementation
of the law after it’s approved, according to MENA.  Compliance Action  LSE’s Regulatory News Service Resumes Operation Following Glitch  London  Stock Exchange Group Plc’s Regulatory News Service
resumed operation after a technical issue that disrupted
dissemination of company information to investors and traders.  Mark Wisken, an RNS executive at LSE, described it
“connectivity issue.” RNS didn’t publish any release between 5
a.m. and 8:36 a.m. in London yesterday, the first trading day of
2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The service carries almost 175,000 statements each year via
data vendors such as Thomson Reuters Corp. and Bloomberg LP, the
parent of Bloomberg News. LSE  says  it features more than 70
percent of price-sensitive U.K. announcements. Companies and
public-relations agencies pay to publish releases.  The disruption yesterday came as LSE was considering
charging banks and brokers for the service. Data providers
already pay to redistribute it. As part of a  consultation  last
year on the workings of RNS, LSE asked to be provided with
users’ details, sparking concern it will start charging them
because it’s unlikely to need the data for any other purpose.  Publicly listed companies in the U.K. must disseminate
statements through one of the  seven  approved Regulated
Information Services, or RISs, to ensure that investors receive
market-moving news at the same instant.  The RNS had a monopoly for regulatory statements until
2002, when the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority introduced
competition. At that point, LSE started to charge companies to
publish announcements, having previously provided the service
for free.  Niche Players and Big Banks Vie for Prepaid Debit Card Market  The allure of the fast-growing U.S. market for prepaid
debit cards is pitting niche players against financial giants
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  American Express Co. (AXP)   Both factions want to sell more of the cards, a part of the
financial services business that holds as much as $1.7 billion
in potential fees for banks seeking new revenue streams as they
face growing competition and regulation. The Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau may write new rules for the cards. It sought
public input about the prepaid market in May.  Myriad players, including a firm catering to recovering
drug addicts and alcoholics, are stepping up with their own
products on the theory that some consumers may pay a slight
premium for a card with novel functions, such as pictures of
celebrity investors.  Players also face more regulation and small firms will
encounter pressure to consolidate as competition squeezes fees,
Madeline Aufseeser, senior analyst with the Boston-based Aite
Group, said in an e-mail.  JPMorgan and American Express are testing whether their
sheer size and efficiency can bring greater market share by
offering lower fees. Smaller players hope to fill smaller market
niches and leave the nuts and bolts of the cards to others.  Prepaid cards can take different forms, though they share
the quality that consumers usually can’t spend more than has
been deposited onto the cards. One type of prepaid card mimics a
checking account, allowing consumers to load and reload funds,
have paychecks deposited directly, make purchases and withdraw
money from ATMs. Employees can also get paid on a separate
employer-issued card.  Americans are projected to increase purchases made with
prepaid cards by 5.3 percent annually to $139.4 billion in 2017,
according to Beth Robertson, director of payments research at
Pleasanton, California-based Javelin Strategy & Research Inc.
Aufseeser of Aite said the market, including general purpose and
payroll cards, could reach $168 billion by 2016, with about 1
percent of that going to fees.  For more, click here.  OFI AM Fined by AMF For ‘Madoff Risk,’ CityWire Global Says  OFI Asset Management  was fined EU300,000 by Autorite des
Marches Financieres, the French market regulator, for “failings
in its due diligence” leading it to hold funds linked to
convicted con artist  Bernard Madoff , CityWire Global reported.  AMF began an investigation in mid-2009 and found that at
the time the Madoff Ponzi scheme had been discovered in 2008,
“four funds from OFI’s alternative multimanagement division
were invested in Madoff vehicles,” the newspaper said.  The regulator determined that AMF showed a “lack of
professionalism and diligence” in monitoring the funds,
according to CityWire. The AMF also fined two directors at the
time of the events, the paper reported.  Comings and Goings/Executive Pay  Goldman Sachs Sped Up $65 Million in Stock Awards to Dec. 31  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. accelerated delivery of $65
million in stock awards to 10 executives, including Chief
Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, helping them avoid higher
tax rates that take effect this year.  The awards are of restricted stock granted for years prior
to 2012, according to 10 separate  filings  made public at about 8
p.m.  New York  time on Dec. 31. Each executive sold between 45
percent and 50 percent of their stock in order to pay taxes,
according to the filings.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets,
typically delivers executives’ restricted stock during the month
of January. The decision to speed up this year’s awards came as
the U.S. Congress debated and ultimately passed a bill that
would increase tax rates on capital gains and on individuals who
make taxable income of $400,000 or more.  “The December delivery of shares went to a wider group of
employees than the named executive officers” who were included
in the filings,  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for the New York-
based firm, said. He declined to comment on the reason for the
accelerated delivery.  The filing included a table showing the stock delivered to
each of the executives and the amount sold for withholding
purposes, according to company filings.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 