-- Swedish November Household Lending Accelerates After Rate Cuts
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-01-03T09:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/swedish-november-household-lending-accelerates-after-rate-cuts.html
Swedish  household borrowing growth 
accelerated in November after the central bank cut benchmark
rates to support economic growth.  Lending to households rose an annual 4.6 percent in
November, compared with growth of 4.5 percent in both October
and September, Statistics Sweden said today in a  statement . That
surpassed the average 4.5 percent growth estimate of six
economists surveyed by Bloomberg and represents the fastest
growth since August, Statistics Sweden data show.  “In November, household lending rates continued to
decrease,” Statistics Sweden said, adding that the average
interest rate from banks for new agreements with households was
3.29 percent in November, compared to 3.38 percent in October.
“The falling lending rates can be explained by decreases in
both short-term and long-term interest rates.”  The central bank last month delivered its  fourth rate cut 
in 12 months to boost growth as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis
hurts Swedish exports. At the same time, the bank is trying to
stem an increase in household debt, which has risen to 170
percent of disposable incomes compared with 90 percent in 1996,
driven by mortgage growth. Household debt by that measure
mustn’t exceed 200 percent, Riksbank Governor Stefan Ingves said
in November.  Record Levels  Record indebtedness has prompted the Riksbank to discuss
the possibility of introducing loan limits relative to household
incomes, or forcing amortization of mortgages to ease
imbalances. While an 85 percent cap on loans relative to
property values that was introduced in October 2010 has slowed
household borrowing growth from levels above 10 percent between
2004 and 2008, more measures could be needed to curb debt levels
further, the central bank has said.  Sweden should target annual household borrowing growth of
no more than 4 percent, Finance Minister Anders Borg has said.  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , Sweden’s biggest mortgage lender, has been
deliberately losing market share in an effort to protect itself
from impairments,  Michael Wolf , the bank’s chief executive
officer, said in an interview on Dec. 4. Sweden’s housing market
probably faces “some sort of adjustment,” Wolf said. The CEO
is “not concerned about a house bubble -- I am more concerned
about the debt level,” he said.  Other Nordic lenders have also indicated they’re wary of
developments.  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , which is cutting 3,000 jobs after
enduring housing busts in Denmark and Ireland, said in November
that it’s bracing for a possible adjustment in Sweden’s housing
market. SEB AB will require new mortgage clients to amortize on
their housing loans in order to reduce risk and ensure they have
buffers in case times get tough.  Sweden ’s central bank on Dec. 18 reduced its benchmark
interest rate for a fourth time in a year to revive growth,
cutting the repo rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 1
percent. The bank also signaled it will probably keep the
benchmark rate unchanged until the end of next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  