-- Swiss Stocks Surge to Four-Year High on U.S. Budget Deal
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-01-03T16:56:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/swiss-stocks-jump-on-first-day-after-u-s-budget-deal.html
Swiss stocks  rose to their highest
level in more than four years on their first trading day after
U.S. lawmakers passed a budget that avoided most scheduled tax
increases threatening a recovery in the world’s largest economy.  Transocean Ltd. climbed 11 percent after a person familiar
with the situation said the company will settle the 2010 oil
spill dispute with U.S. regulators for $1.5 billion. Schmolz &
Bickenbach AG soared 8.4 percent after Handelsblatt reported the
company may be a takeover target.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s largest lenders, each rose at least 4 percent.  The benchmark  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  added 2.9 percent to
7.020.46 at the close in Zurich, its highest level since
September 2008. The gauge gained 15 percent in 2012, its biggest
annual rally in three years, as the  European Central Bank 
announced an unlimited bond-buying plan and the  Federal Reserve 
expanded asset purchases. The broader Swiss Performance Index
also advanced 2.9 percent today.  “The deal wasn’t perfect but at least we avoided the
fiscal cliff, so for the moment the market is happy,” Peter Braendle, who helps manage about $60 billion at Swisscanto Asset
Management in Zurich, said in an interview. “Swiss stocks are
catching up with what  Europe  did yesterday, but I do wonder what
will happen in two months’ time when the discussions start
again.”  All 20 SMI members gained, as Novartis AG,  Roche Holding AG 
and Nestle SA contributed the most to the Stoxx Europe 600
Index’s advance. The number of shares changing hands in SMI
companies today was 47 percent higher than the average of the
past 30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  European Rally  European stocks rallied yesterday to their highest since
February 2011 after the U.S. House of Representatives passed
budget legislation, breaking an impasse over how to prevent more
than $600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts from coming
into force. President  Barack Obama  signed the bill into law.  Swiss  manufacturing  output contracted less than economists
forecast in December. The procure.ch  Purchasing Managers ’ Index
advanced to 49.5 from 48.5 in November, when adjusted for
seasonal swings, Credit Suisse said. A reading below 50
indicates contraction. Economists forecast a decline to 48.4,
the median of 10 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Transocean Jumps  Transocean climbed 11 percent to 44.62 francs. The world’s
largest offshore rig contractor will settle all federal claims
over the Deepwater Horizon explosion for $1.5 billion, according
to a person familiar with the situation. The agreement may be
announced today, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the matter isn’t public.  Schmolz & Bickenbach soared 8.4 percent to 3.10 Swiss
francs. German newspaper Handelsblatt reported yesterday that
suitors such as Apollo Group Inc. or Triton Beteiligungsberatung
GmbH may buy the maker of steel for the car industry for as much
as 500 million euros ($657.8 million).  UBS rose 4.1 percent to 14.85 francs, while Credit Suisse
jumped 5.4 percent to 23.46 francs, for the biggest gains on a
gauge of European banks.  Swatch Group AG, which gets about half its revenue from
 Asia (UHR) , rose 6.4 percent to 490.5 francs as  Hong Kong ’s government
said sales of goods including jewelry and watches jumped 13.7
percent in November from a year earlier after falling the
previous month.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) , the world’s
second-largest luxury-goods company, added 5.7 percent to 75.5
francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  