-- Swiss Bank Wegelin & Co. Pleads Guilty in U.S. Tax Probe
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-01-04T12:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/swiss-bank-wegelin-co-to-plead-guilty-in-u-s-tax-case.html
Wegelin & Co., Switzerland’s oldest
private bank, may pay U.S. authorities as much as $74 million
after pleading guilty to helping American taxpayers hide assets
from the  Internal Revenue Service .  Otto Bruderer, a managing partner at the St. Gallen-based
bank, entered the plea yesterday to one count of conspiracy in
 Manhattan  federal court. Wegelin in February became the first
Swiss lender  indicted  in a crackdown on offshore firms suspected
of helping Americans evade taxes.  “From about 2002 through about 2010, Wegelin agreed with
certain U.S. taxpayers to evade the U.S. tax obligations of
these U.S. taxpayer clients, who filed false tax returns with
the IRS,” Bruderer, reading from a statement, told U.S.
District Judge Jed S. Rakoff.  Under a proposed plea agreement, the bank will pay $20
million in restitution to the U.S., forfeit $15.8 million that
represents fees on undeclared accounts and pay a fine of more
than $22 million. The agreement requires Rakoff’s approval.
Sentencing is set for March 4.  Taken together with the $16.2 million Wegelin forfeited
from a U.S. correspondent bank account in April, the government
would receive a total of about $74 million, Manhattan U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara said yesterday in a statement.  ‘Symbolic Significance’  “It has an important symbolic significance in that you
have a bank that has no branches in the U.S., but the U.S.
government was able to reach them and get them to plead
guilty,” said  Robert Fink , a tax attorney at Kostelanetz & Fink
LLP in New York. “It puts other banks on notice as to the long
arm of the U.S. law.”  Prosecutors said that more than 100 U.S. taxpayers
conspired with Wegelin and with Swiss bankers Michael Berlinka,
Urs Frei and Roger Keller to hide income from the IRS. The
individual defendants, who live outside the U.S., were first
indicted in January 2012 and haven’t appeared in court to answer
the charges. The bank held more than $1.2 billion in assets not
declared to the IRS, according to the indictment.  The U.S. said Wegelin and the three bankers wooed U.S.
clients fleeing  UBS AG (UBSN) , the largest Swiss bank. UBS avoided U.S.
prosecution in 2009 by admitting it aided  tax evasion , paying
$780 million and handing over data on 250 accounts. It later
disclosed information on about 4,450 more accounts.  Ex-UBS Clients  By attracting ex-UBS clients, Wegelin opened new undeclared
accounts for at least 70 U.S. taxpayers, according to the
indictment. Most of those accounts were given an internal code
of “BNQ,” indicating the accounts were undeclared.  “Wegelin became a haven for U.S. taxpayers seeking to
circumvent the  tax code  by hiding their money in secret offshore
accounts, and the bank willfully and aggressively jumped in to
fill a void that was left when other Swiss banks abandoned the
practice due to pressure from U.S. law enforcement,” Bharara
said.  The effort to woo UBS clients was backed by Wegelin’s
senior management, according to the indictment.  Earlier in the case, Wegelin declined to answer the charges
or appear in court, prompting Rakoff to declare the bank a
“fugitive.”  “The  Justice Department  is sending a message that not
every bank gets a deferred-prosecution agreement,” said  Larry
Campagna , a Houston tax attorney at Chamberlain, Hrdlicka,
White, Williams & Aughtry. “A deferred-prosecution agreement
essentially says that if you keep your nose clean going forward,
we won’t prosecute you for what you did in the past.”  U.S. Probe  The U.S. and Switzerland are in talks to resolve a U.S.
probe of offshore tax evasion. Wegelin was one of at least 11
banks under criminal investigation by the Justice Department’s
tax division.  Wegelin, founded in 1741, “will cease to operate as a
bank” once the matter has concluded, the firm said in a
statement yesterday. The managing partners spent 2012 focusing
on the legal proceedings.  Wegelin, which had $25 billion in assets in December 2010,
announced on Jan. 27 it agreed to a sale to  Switzerland ’s
Raiffeisen Group. In the announcement, Wegelin said any
liability for the firm’s U.S. business would remain with the
current partners. Wegelin didn’t disclose the sale price.  “Wegelin believed that, as a practical matter, it would
not be prosecuted in the U.S. for this conduct because it had no
branches in the U.S. and because of its understanding that it
acted in accordance with, and not in violation of, Swiss law and
that such conduct was common in the Swiss banking industry,”
Bruderer told Rakoff in yesterday’s hearing.  The case is U.S. v. Wegelin, 12-cr-00002, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in  New York  at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  