-- U.A.E. Banks Said to Meet on Central Bank 50% Expat Mortgage Cap
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-01-03T08:07:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/u-a-e-banks-said-to-meet-on-central-bank-50-expat-mortgage-cap.html
Chief executive officers of lenders
in the United Arab Emirates plan to hold a meeting with the
central bank next week to discuss the regulator’s plan to cap
 mortgage loans , a person familiar with the matter said.  Heads of retail from members of the  Emirates Banks
Association , which includes lenders such as  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) 
and HSBC Holdings Plc, will meet on Jan. 6, three people
familiar with the matter said, declining to be identified
because the details are private. The CEOs meeting with the
regulator will follow, one of the people said.  The U.A.E., where foreigners make up more than 80 percent
of the population, issued guidelines on Dec. 30 to restrict
mortgages for expatriates to 50 percent of the value of a first
home, according to central bank guidelines obtained by  Bloomberg
News . Home loans to U.A.E. citizens can be as much 70 percent of
the value, according to the circular. There were no loan-to-
value limits earlier.  Banks will request the central bank to raise mortgage
limits for expatriates to 75 percent of the value of a first
home and the U.A.E nationals to 85 percent,  Al Khaleej  reported
earlier today, without saying where it got the information.
Lenders will agree to central bank limits on mortgages for
second homes, the newspaper reported.  According to the central bank circular Dec. 30, foreigners
could obtain mortgages of as much as 40 percent of the value of
a second property, while U.A.E citizens could get 60 percent.  The restrictions follow a nascent recovery in  home prices 
in Dubai and government plans for projects including a district
boasting the world’s biggest shopping mall and five theme parks.
The plans evoked memories of the debt-fueled drive to turn Dubai
into a regional tourism and financial hub before property prices
crashed more than 65 percent during the global recession,
bringing the emirate to the brink of default in 2009.  The central bank’s public relations department declined to
comment when contacted by Bloomberg News today. A spokesman for
HSBC declined to comment, while a spokesman for Emirates NBD
wasn’t immediately available. The Emirates Banks Association
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail from Bloomberg News.  The U.A.E., the second-biggest Arab economy, comprises
seven sheikhdoms including  Abu Dhabi  and Dubai.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  