-- U.K.’s Paterson Says GM Crops Represent an Opportunity
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-01-03T00:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/u-k-s-paterson-says-gm-crops-represent-an-opportunity.html
Genetically modified crops offer
“great opportunities” for meeting the world’s growing food
demand, while the public needs to be reassured that varieties
are safe, according to Owen Paterson, the U.K.’s secretary of
state for environment, food and rural affairs.  Genetically modified, or GM, crops should go through the
“rigorous processes” put in place by the European Union to
screen varieties for safety, Paterson said in an e-mailed copy
of prepared statements before a speech today at the Oxford
Farming Conference. GM crops were grown on 160 million hectares
(395 million acres) in 29 countries in 2011, on about 11 percent
of the world’s arable land, according to the statement.  “GM needs to be considered in its proper overall context
with a balanced understanding of the risks and benefits,”
Paterson said. “We should not, however, be afraid of making the
case to the public about the potential benefits of GM beyond the
food chain, for example, reducing the use of pesticides and
inputs such as diesel.”  The U.S. is the world’s biggest  grower  of GM crops,
according to the nonprofit group the International Service for
the Acquisition of Agri-biotech Applications. Some varieties
grown in the North American country, the world’s largest corn
and soybean exporter last season, are not approved for
cultivation in the EU.  “I believe that GM offers great opportunities but I also
recognize that we owe a duty to the public to reassure them that
it is a safe and beneficial innovation,” Paterson said.  The U.K. invests more than 410 million pounds ($666 million)
annually on research in the agriculture, food and drink sector,
Paterson said. The country is 78 percent self-sufficient in food
products capable of being grown in the U.K.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  Chicago  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  