-- U.S. Lied to Get Search Warrants, Megaupload Claims
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-01-03T03:13:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/u-s-lied-to-get-search-warrants-megaupload-claims.html
The U.S. government lied to a court
to get search warrants for computer servers in  Virginia 
belonging to Megaupload.com., which is accused of orchestrating
the biggest copyright-infringement conspiracy in U.S. history,
the file-sharing website said.  The U.S. government had sought Megaupload’s cooperation in
the investigation and the company agreed, unaware it was the
target of the investigation, Megaupload said in a filing
yesterday in federal court in Alexandria, Virginia.  “The government then came before this court, ex parte,
with a selective, distorted account” to obtain the search
warrants, Megaupload said in the filing. “The government
deliberately misled the court that signed the search warrants
and failed to disclose material exculpatory information.”  Kim Dotcom, 38, the founder of Megaupload, was indicted in
what U.S. prosecutors dubbed a “mega conspiracy,” accusing his
file-sharing website of generating more than $175 million in
criminal proceeds from the exchange of pirated film, music, book
and software files. If convicted, he faces as long as 20 years
in prison for each of the racketeering and  money-laundering 
charges in the indictment.  Megaupload filed the documents in a request to be allowed
to take part in a hearing in Alexandria addressing the validity
of the U.S. warrants.  A  New Zealand  judge ruled warrants used by police in that
country to search Dotcom’s home were overly broad and invalid.  Megaupload Shut  The U.S. shut down Megaupload without notice after charges
against seven individuals, including Dotcom, were unsealed in
court on Jan. 19.  A Feb. 17 revised indictment includes charges of
racketeering, money laundering, copyright infringement and  wire
fraud . The copyright-infringement charges carry a maximum five-
year prison term.  The U.S. had notified Megaupload in June 2010 that its
leased servers at Carpathia Hosting Inc. in Virginia had 39
infringing copies of copyrighted motion pictures. By Nov. 18,
2011, 36 of the films were still present on the servers,
according to the U.S.  The U.S. paints Megaupload “as a brazen scofflaw,” that
refused to remove the infringing content, the file-sharing
company said. “The truth, as the government well knows, is
quite different.”  Megaupload kept the files on the servers because the
government told it to take no action that could disclose the
existence of the investigation, the company said.  German-born Dotcom was arrested at his residence in an
Auckland, New Zealand, suburb, in January last year and spent
four weeks in jail before being released to await an extradition
hearing, which is scheduled for March.  The case is USA v. Dotcom. 12-cr-00003. U.S. Distrcit
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria). The
extradition case is between Kim Dotcom and Attorney-General. Civ
2012-404-1928.  High Court  of New Zealand (Auckland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  