-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Climb; Ford Issues $2 Billion of Bonds
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-01-03T22:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-little-changed-as-employment-grows.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
rose after Federal Reserve policy makers said they will probably
end their $85 billion monthly bond purchases sometime in 2013.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, climbed 0.6
basis point to a mid-price of 85.7 basis points at 5:04 p.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Minutes from the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s Dec. 11-12
gathering released today in  Washington  showed a divide among
participants on how long the purchases should last, stoking
investor concern that a reduction of economic stimulus might
make it more difficult for companies to repay debt obligations.
The central bank’s comments offset a private survey based on
payrolls that showed the biggest gain in employment in 10 months
in December.  “Markets are very disappointed, because they thought they
had the low rate policy plus quantitative easing ad infinitum,”
Noel Hebert, chief investment officer at Bethlehem,
Pennsylvania-based Concannon  Wealth Management , said in a
telephone interview. “The important thing is that the cessation
of QE has a lot to do with prognostications of when we
accelerate into a sustainable growth path. If by mid-year growth
looks tepid, you’re just going to get a renewal of a more dovish
tone from the Fed.”  ADP Employment  Earlier, the index fell as low as 84 basis points as
companies added 215,000 workers last month, the Roseland, New
Jersey-based ADP Research Institute showed today. The increase
was the largest since February and followed a revised 148,000
gain in November that was larger than initially reported.  Applications for jobless benefits rose 10,000 to 372,000 in
the week ended Dec. 29, the Labor Department showed today in
Washington. Economists forecast 360,000, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  “The ADP report easily trumped the weekly initial
claims,”  Andrew Wilkinson , senior market analyst at Miller
Tabak & Co. in New York, said in a telephone interview. “Nobody
was forecasting strength into the end of the year, and yet we
got two very strong reports in November and December.”  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Ford Motor  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest U.S. automaker, sold $2
billion of bonds in its first sale of fixed-rate debt maturing
in at least 30 years since 1999. The 4.75 percent securities due
January 2043 were priced to yield 180 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Proceeds from the sale will be used to refinance debt
and to fund its  pension plan . The notes may be rated Baa3, the
lowest level of investment grade, by Moody’s Investors Service.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index climbed 5.8 basis points to 444.4 basis points,
according to Bloomberg prices.  Credit swaps protecting against losses on the debt of
 Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  for five years rose 13.9 basis points to 263.9
basis points as of 3:30 p.m. in New York, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The third-largest U.S. department store chain reported a
3.4 percent rise in same-store sales, compared with an average
projection for a 1.3 percent gain. The retailer also cut its
fourth-quarter earnings forecast to as much as $1.62 a share,
from a maximum of $2.08 a share. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
estimated $1.89, on average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  