-- CSI 300 Nears Bull Market After ADR Jump: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-01-03T22:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/huaneng-leads-slump-on-u-s-concerns-china-overnight.html
Chinese shares listed overseas
rallied over the three-day break in mainland trading, boosting
prospects the  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  will enter a bull market amid signs
 Asia ’s largest economy is recovering.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  has climbed 4.8
percent in Hong Kong during the past two days, while the
 Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese
shares in  New York  rose 2.2 percent, as data from manufacturing
to service-sector growth signaled the economy is rebounding from
its seven-quarter slowdown. Insurers led the  Hang Seng  advance
after the regulator said they can set up mutual funds, while
solar stocks jumped in New York amid the U.S. budget deal.  The CSI 300, a gauge of 300 yuan-denominated A shares
listed in Shanghai and Shenzhen that resumes trading today, has
soared 19.6 percent since reaching a three-year low Dec. 3, on
speculation spending on infrastructure will stoke a recovery in
the world’s second-biggest economy. Chinese  manufacturing 
expanded for a third month in December, data released Jan. 1
showed, and the deal forged over the U.S. budget also boosted
the outlook for the nation’s exports.  “The Chinese economy is in the process of turning the
corner, and its equities had some positive contagion because of
the U.S. tax deal,”  Timothy Ghriskey , chief investment officer
at Solaris Group LLC, which manages about $2 billion, said by
phone yesterday in New York. “The outlook for Chinese equities
is improving. Our best guess is the domestic markets will move
higher when they reopen.”  Coal Stocks  The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises gauge rose for a sixth
trading day yesterday, adding 0.8 percent, while the China-US
measure dropped 0.6 percent in New York, slipping for the first
day this year. An advance of 20 percent or more from a low
signals a bull market to some investors, while a decline of that
magnitude signals a  bear market .  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (1171) , China’s fourth-largest producer of
the fuel, has climbed 10 percent in the past two days in  Hong
Kong , the biggest jump among stocks listed on the Hang Seng, as
China canceled temporary price intervention measures on thermal
coal. Yanzhou’s American depositary receipts have increased 7.3
percent in the same period, while China Coal Energy Co. added
6.2 percent in Hong Kong over the past two trading days.  Chinese insurers on the Hong Kong gauge have surged since
Dec. 30, when the nation’s securities regulator said they will
be allowed to set up mutual funds. New China Life Insurance Co.
and China Pacific Insurance (Group) Co. advanced more than 9
percent over the past two days, while PICC Property and Casualty
Co. Ltd., Ping An Insurance (Group) Co., and China Life
Insurance Co. also gained.  Soaring Valuation  The CSI 300’s last  bull-market  rally began in July 2010 and
lasted until November that year with the stock gauge jumping 41
percent. The index entered a bear market in August 2011 as the
government raised  interest rates  and ordered banks to set aside
more funds as deposit reserves to slow inflation.  Companies on the CSI 300 trade at an average 12.1 times
estimated earnings, the highest valuation in 13 months, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a multiple of 9
for the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index and 13.7 for the
 China-US measure  of U.S.-traded companies, the data show.  In the U.S., Chinese solar makers  led gainers  on the China-
US index, after HSBC Holdings Plc said in a report that China
will become the world’s largest solar market in 2013.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the second-largest maker of wafers globally,
surged 33 percent over the past two days after slumping 66
percent in 2012. LDK’s ADRs jumped 22 percent yesterday to
$1.92, the highest price since July 6.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , China’s
third-largest solar maker, jumped 18 percent to $5.29 yesterday,
the highest price since July 27.  GDP Data  China Lodging Group Ltd. (HTHT) , which runs the nation’s fourth-
largest economy hotel chain, dropped 4.9 percent yesterday,
bringing its two-day slump to 5.9 percent and leading the China-
US measure’s decline. East Leader International Ltd. sold
100,000 ADRs in the hotel chain Dec. 21 for $1.53 million, a
 regulatory filing  released Jan. 2 showed. The company also
reduced holdings in November and August, according to the
document.  China’s  gross domestic product  probably expanded 7.8
percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, from a three-
year low of 7.4 percent in the previous three months, according
to the median estimate of 34 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
last month. The GDP data is scheduled to be released Jan. 18.  In China, “you’ve avoided the hard landing, there’s not
much inflation and earnings will probably rebound,” Geoffrey Dennis, a New York-based global emerging-markets strategist at
Citigroup Inc. said by phone yesterday.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., declined 0.6 percent to $41.59
in New York yesterday, after climbing 3.5 percent Jan. 2. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  fell 0.2 percent to 1,459.37.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  