-- Uganda Leaves Benchmark Rate Unchanged at 12%
-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 2013-01-03T10:11:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/uganda-leaves-benchmark-rate-unchanged-at-12-as-inflation-jumps.html
(Corrects spelling of acting deputy governor’s name in
second paragraph.)  Uganda’s central bank left its
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged for the first time since May,
even after inflation accelerated last month, to spur lending and
support the currency.  The Bank of Uganda kept the central  bank rate  at 12
percent, Justine Bagyenda, the acting deputy governor, told
reporters today in the capital, Kampala.  The bank cut rates nine times last year as it seeks to
stimulate an economy whose growth slowed to 3.2 percent in
2011-2012, less than half the previous year’s pace. Inflation
accelerated to 5.5 percent last month from 4.9 percent, driven
by higher energy costs, and the shilling has slid to the lowest
in more than a year.  The central bank was unlikely to raise the rate because
inflation accelerated only “marginally” and it is “focused on
stimulating private sector borrowing to boost growth,” Robert
Katabaire, a researcher at the Kampala-based Dyer & Blair  Uganda 
Ltd., said by phone before the decision was announced.  The central bank expects growth of between 4 and 4.5
percent in the 12 months through June. It trimmed the forecast
from 5 percent because of slow credit growth and an aid freeze
by donors including the U.K. and Scandinavian countries, which
have cited embezzlement of funds.  The central bank raised its benchmark rate as high as 23
percent in 2011 to halt a plunge in the shilling and a surge in
inflation. Its reductions since then haven’t been matched by
commercial lenders.  Stanbic Uganda Ltd. (SBU) , the biggest bank, said last month it
would cut its prime lending rate by 50 basis points to 20
percent this month. Barclays Bank Plc’s local unit said it cut
its rate by 120 basis points this month to 19.8 percent.  The shilling fell 8 percent against the dollar last year,
making it Africa’s fifth-worst performing currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at   fojambo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 