-- Hungary Bond Yields Fall to 7-Year Low on Rate-Cut Speculation
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-01-03T10:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/hungary-bond-yields-fall-to-7-year-low-on-rate-cut-speculation.html
Hungary’s government bond yields fell
to the lowest in more than seven years on speculation slowing
inflation and rising risk appetite will allow the central bank
to cut  interest rates  further this year.  Yields on 10-year notes fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage points, to 6 percent by 10:37 a.m. in Budapest, the
lowest since September 2005. The forint weakened 0.1 percent to
291.32 per euro.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank cut its benchmark rate by a
cumulative 1.25 percentage points in five monthly meetings last
year to 5.75 percent. Traders in interest rate derivatives are
pricing in the same amount of easing for 2013. The rate’s
“equilibrium” level is 4.5 to 5 percent, policy maker Ferenc
Gerhardt said in a Nov. 5 interview.  “We still see cuts progressing meeting by meeting” of the
rate-setting Monetary Council, Peter Attard Montalto, a London-
based strategist at Nomura International Plc, wrote in a
research report today.  The central bank last month lowered its inflation forecast
for 2013 to an average 3.5 percent, from a projection of 5.8
percent in September, as a result of the government cutting
household energy prices by 10 percent from January and delaying
a rise in excise taxes.  The Cabinet plans two further round of price cuts for
heating, natural gas and electricity, Magyar Hirlap reported
today. The Development Ministry declined to comment in an e-
mailed response to questions from  Bloomberg News .  “The central bank will probably continue rate cuts, which
may further push down the shorter end of the yield curve,”  Akos Kuti , a Budapest-based analyst at broker Equilor Befektetesi
Zrt., wrote in an e-mailed report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  