-- Vivendi’s SFR-Iliad Deal May Be Prohibited, BFM Reports
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-01-03T10:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/vivendi-told-by-regulator-sfr-iliad-merger-not-allowed-bfm-says.html
Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s SFR unit and  Iliad SA (ILD) 
have been told by competition regulators that their competing
French phone businesses wouldn’t be allowed to merge,  BFM
reported , citing unidentified people in the industry.  In separate consultations, the two companies were told that
a hypothetical merger of SFR and Iliad would be rejected as the
market share would be too big, television station BFM said on
its website. Iliad spokeswoman Isabelle Audap and a Vivendi
representative declined to comment. French Competition Authority
spokeswoman Virginie Guin didn’t immediately respond to requests
for comment.  SFR had 20.9 million mobile customers and 5 million fixed-
line subscribers as of  Sept. 30 , while Iliad had  5.3 million 
fixed subscribers and 4.4 million mobile clients. Former
monopoly  France Telecom SA (FTE)  had  26.6 million  mobile clients and
17.8 million fixed-line subscribers.  Iliad’s entry into the French mobile market one year ago,
with packages starting at 2 euros ($2.63) a month, prompted
competitors to lower prices and cut costs and jobs. Vivendi is
looking to refocus on media and content. It is considering the
sale of some telecommunications assets and has been exploring
options for SFR.  Vivendi shares dropped 1.4 percent to 17.20 euros at 10:57
a.m. in Paris, while Iliad fell 0.3 percent to 132 euros.  Vivendi informally discussed a sale to former co-owner
Vodafone Group Plc, though the two companies were widely
divided on a valuation, people with knowledge of the plans said
in October.  Concerns over valuation and deal structure also stood in
the way of a potential tie-up with Numericable, the French cable
operator owned by private-equity firms including Carlyle Group
LP that has approached Vivendi about a potential merger with
SFR, the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  