-- Vodafone Sells Used IPhones in U.K. to Build Data Revenue
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-01-03T16:58:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/vodafone-sells-used-iphones-in-u-k-to-build-data-revenue.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  is offering its
U.K. customers discounts on used smartphones for the first time,
in a new-year push to increase sales of data and stem service-
revenue declines.  The “Nearly New” plan provides savings -- of as much as
155 pounds ($251) off the 405-pound price for an iPhone 4 -- for
pay-as-you-go users, as well as cheaper plans for monthly
subscribers, who already get reduced handset prices. Other
devices include those made by  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  HTC
Corp. (2498)  that have been returned by customers for resale.  The world’s second-largest wireless carrier is targeting
higher data consumption as Britain’s weak economy drives
declines in call revenue. Vodafone’s sales from U.K. phone plans
fell 2.1 percent in the six months through September, partially
offset by a 5 percent growth in data revenue.  “Nearly New is designed to make it even more affordable
for people, especially those who prefer pay-as-you-go services,
to get their hands on a smartphone,” Newbury, England-based
Vodafone said in a statement today. “It is part of our ambition
to get the Internet into the hands of our customers.”  The phones went on sale in stores yesterday and will be
available online next week.  Samsung Galaxy  Devices will vary monthly based on what customers return.
Samsung’s Galaxy SIII and HTC’s One X are available for contract
customers this month, while  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone 4 and iPhone 3GS
are available for pay-as-you-go users. The handsets come with a
12-month warranty for customers without a contract and 24 months
for monthly subscribers, Vodafone said.  Vodafone fell 0.03 pence to 157.40 pence in London trading.
The stock lost 14 percent in 2012, compared with an 11 percent
decline for the 23-company Bloomberg Europe Telecommunication
Services Index.  Separately, U.K. telecommunications watchdog Ofcom has
started a consultation to explore ways to protect consumers
against carriers raising prices during the term of contracts, it
 said  in a statement today. Ofcom said it is considering an
option to let people drop out of contracts without a penalty in
the event of a price increase.  Telefonica Deal  Ofcom’s suggestions may drive up prices, Vodafone said in
an e-mailed statement.  “The regulator’s proposals risk generating significant
confusion and potentially increasing the cost of getting a
mobile-phone contract for millions of people,” Vodafone said.
New customers “could find themselves paying different prices
for different services depending on which third party has
recently increased its prices.”  Vodafone said it has little control over third parties’
decisions to raise prices. The company cited the example of BT
Group Plc’s charges for calls to premium-rate numbers, and said
it would have to pass on price changes to consumers.  Vodafone has been working to cut costs in the U.K. In June,
the company and  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s U.K. unit said they would share
network infrastructure to improve coverage and cut the cost of
expansion. Vodafone has similar agreements in Spain, Ireland,
the Netherlands and  Australia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  