-- Wacker Jumps on Polysilicon Price, UBS Upgrade: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-01-03T11:08:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/wacker-jumps-on-polysilicon-price-ubs-upgrade-frankfurt-mover.html
Wacker Chemie AG (WCH) , a German maker of
polysilicon used in solar panels, rose to the highest in more
than three months after prices of the material gained and UBS
added it to its list of most preferred European chemical stocks.  Wacker advanced as much as 7 percent to 54.43 euros, its
highest intraday value since Sept. 18. The price of polysilicon
climbed to $15.38 per kilo from $15.35, its first weekly
increase in 11 months, SK Securities Co. said in a report today,
citing data from research firm PV Insights. The price had been
falling due to oversupply.  “While the increase is marginal, I think it’s worth noting
because this could be an indicator of the future price
direction,” Sohn Ji Woo, an SK Securities analyst, wrote in the
report.  Polysilicon makers such as Wacker and  GCL-Poly Energy
Holdings Ltd. (3800)  raised output in 2011, producing more than needed
by solar-panel developers and creating a glut that sent prices
below output costs for most manufacturers. The overcapacity has
hurt margins at solar-cell and panel makers as governments
across  Europe  scaled back support for the industry.  Market optimism can be found in  Germany , where unabated
growth in solar installations despite subsidy cuts should cause
fourth-quarter results to be “less terrible” than previously
expected, Jenny Chase, an analyst with Bloomberg New Energy
Finance, said by phone.  Warren Buffett ’s MidAmerican Energy
Holdings Co. is also spending as much as $2.5 billion in the
secondary market for solar power projects, she said.  “While demand may well be slightly up over the year, we
expect the polysilicon price to come back to $20 to $25 by the
end of 2013 only if there’s consolidation in the market,” Chase
said.  Wacker was up 5 percent at 53.40 euros at 11:52 a.m. in
 Frankfurt .  OCI Co. (010060) , South Korea’s biggest maker of polysilicon,
rallied the most in eight months in Seoul. GCL-Poly rose 6.8
percent at the close in  Hong Kong .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  