-- Hyundai, Samsung Boost Order Target on Offshore Demand
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-01-03T05:29:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-03/hyundai-samsung-boost-order-target-on-offshore-demand.html
Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. (009540)  and
Samsung Heavy Industries Co., the world’s two biggest
shipbuilders, forecast a jump in orders this year, helped by
rising demand for offshore drilling and production units.  Hyundai Heavy is targeting annual orders for ships,
offshore products and plant construction to surge 52 percent to
$29.7 billion, according to a regulatory filing. Smaller rival
Samsung Heavy aims to win orders worth $13 billion, 35 percent
more than last year, its spokesman I Chan Hwang said.  The South Korean shipbuilders, who failed to meet their
2012 targets, are boosting the outlook as Petroleo Brasileiro
SA, Exxon Mobil Corp. and other energy companies develop new
fields amid dwindling oil reserves at existing wells. The
increased exploration may spur spending of more than $335
billion by 2016, according to Canterbury, U.K.-based researcher
 Douglas-Westwood .  “Demand for offshore facilities, including drill ships and
floating production units, will continue to increase this
year,” Ko Jae Ho, chief executive officer of  Daewoo
Shipbuilding (042660)  & Marine Engineering Co., said in a speech today.
“Demand for vessels may recover in the second half.”  Daewoo Shipbuilding, the world’s third-largest, didn’t
disclose its order target for this year. The Seoul-based company
won $14.3 billion in contracts in 2012, exceeding its projection
for $11 billion, it said in a Dec. 26 statement.  Slumping Demand  Hyundai Heavy and Samsung Heavy failed to meet their order
targets last year as overcapacity and economic uncertainties
caused demand to slump. Hyundai Heavy will “aggressively
market” their products to secure more work, Chief Executive
Officer Lee Jai Seong said in a speech to employees today.  Hyundai Heavy dropped as much as 0.6 percent to 247,000 won
and traded at 248,000 won as of 12:59 p.m. in  Seoul . Daewoo
Shipbuilding advanced as much as 1.8 percent and Samsung Heavy
fell as much as 1.3 percent.  Ulsan, South Korea-based Hyundai Heavy raised a record 1.2
trillion won in bond sales last year as it sought cash amid the
slump in new orders. Securing funds will be a top priority for
the company this year as well, the CEO said without elaboration.
The shipbuilder received applications for early retirement from
workers last year for the first time, and also reduced the
number of its executives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  