-- 
Chinese Companies Abandoning U.S. Listings

-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-05-18T00:59:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/abax-global-seeks-chinese-companies-abandoning-u-s-listings.html
Abax Global Capital , a Morgan
Stanley-backed manager of $900 million of hedge and private
equity funds, is seeking to profit from Chinese companies
abandoning U.S. listings for higher valuations in Hong Kong.  Abax has invested in companies including  Harbin Electric
Inc. (HRBN)  and  Fushi Copperweld Inc. (FSIN) , which are seeking delisting from
the U.S. in leveraged management buyouts and may go public in
Hong Kong later, Donald Yang, Abax’s Hong Kong-based managing
partner, said in an interview yesterday.  Valuations of smaller Chinese manufacturing companies
listed in the U.S. have plummeted after the global financial
crisis, with the collapse of their traditional investor base of
smaller U.S.-based  hedge funds  and individuals, said Yang. U.S.
regulatory investigations since last year into accounting
practices of Chinese companies that gained listing on American
exchanges through reverse mergers also damped share prices.  “Their traditional investor base is gone,” he said. “But
you can pick out quite a few companies in the space where the
business fundamentals are very solid.”  One hundred and twenty-nine Chinese companies listed in the
U.S. trade at an average eight times their estimated 2012
earnings, against 11 times for 276 peers traded in  Hong Kong 
because of a lack of research coverage, high concentration of
shares among their major shareholders, and limited trading
volume, according to data compiled by Citigroup Inc.  More than 3,200 hedge funds have been liquidated between
2008 and last year, 36 percent more than new starts, according
to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Reverse Mergers  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission last year
started a probe amid concerns that some Chinese companies listed
in the U.S. were doctoring their financial statements. U.S.
exchanges have frozen or delisted shares of more than a dozen
China-based firms since March amid the probes centered on those
that have obtained listings through reverse mergers -- deals in
which a closely held firm goes public by acquiring a traded one,
thereby avoiding the scrutiny of an initial public offering.  Abax is making the investments through Abax Global
Opportunities Fund and separate accounts for clients which
together oversee $350 million using the same strategy. The fund
bets on companies in  Asia , especially mainland China, whose debt
and equity prices will move as a result of mergers, hostile
takeovers, asset sales and large share buybacks.  Attractive Returns  “I think this is going to be the focus for the next couple
of years at least,” Yang, 45, said. “It’s a good investment
thesis.”  These companies provide more attractive returns than the
traditional Chinese targets of private equity funds because they
are larger in scale, have more established business operations
and better internal controls. They are also valued cheaper and
investors could recoup their money sooner, Yang said.  Abax is focusing on companies that it has provided
financing to before and is therefore familiar with, Yang said.
It expects to recoup such investments in less than two years,
including the typical six-month ban on sales of pre-IPO
investments after trading starts, he said. It can also sell the
investments to private equity companies.  Abax Global Opportunities Fund returned just more than 2
percent this year, and 20 percent in 2010, Yang said. It exited
about 80 percent of pre-2008 investments with about 12 percent
annual returns, either when the loans matured or when the
companies paid it back before maturity after obtaining
alternative sources of funding at lower rates, he said.  Fund Restructure  Abax earlier this year restructured its special situations
fund by creating two share classes, one with a two-year ban on
withdrawals in exchange for fee discounts, and one that allows
quarterly redemption that charges higher fees.  Investors were subject to a one-year outright ban on
withdrawals and penalties for redemptions in the next two years
when the fund was set up in 2007, said Yang.  The more frequent redemptions are to help attract U.S. and
European investors who have been reluctant to put money into
less liquid funds since the crisis while allowing Abax to make
longer-term private investments with higher returns, he said.  Chinese individuals and institutions now account for the
majority of its assets, Yang said.  Abax started a 500 million yuan ($77 million) private
equity fund denominated in the Chinese currency early last year,
with  China  Development Bank Corp. as its anchor investor.  It is also setting up a venture with the Chinese bank to
manage another private equity fund that is expected to receive
as much as 4 billion yuan of commitments from mostly
institutional investors, Yang said. The venture, which has
received government approval and is going through the
registration process, may become operational in the next two
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  