-- 
Labor Unions, Nonprofits Seek Curbs on Corporate Tax Breaks

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-05-18T15:34:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/labor-unions-nonprofit-groups-seek-u-s-corporate-tax-increase.html
U.S. labor unions and nonprofit
groups, including the  Service Employees International Union  and
the National Education Association, called on Congress to raise
corporate taxes by eliminating “tax subsidies” and to resist
calls by business groups to reduce the corporate tax rate.  That position puts the groups in opposition to the Obama
administration, which is seeking an overhaul of the corporate
 tax code  that would remove deductions and credits and cut the
top corporate rate of 35 percent.  “In contrast, we strongly believe most, if not all, of the
revenue saved from eliminating corporate tax subsidies should go
towards deficit reduction and towards creating the healthy,
educated workforce and sound infrastructure that will make our
nation more competitive,” wrote the groups, which included the
Children’s Defense Fund and Citizens for Tax Justice.  Lawmakers are considering a broad overhaul of the U.S. tax
code. Last week, chief financial officers from  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ,
 Zimmer Holdings Inc. (ZMH) ,  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  and Kimberly-
Clark Corp. told the House Ways and Means Committee that the top
35 percent rate and the U.S. tax on repatriated offshore profits
hamper them against foreign competition.  In today’s letter, the groups wrote that competitiveness
depends more on public investments in education and
infrastructure than on  tax policy . They urged Congress to
examine the ways in which companies often pay less than the 35
percent rate.  ‘Tax Loopholes’  “These tax loopholes often subsidize corporations for
engaging in activities that do not make economic sense and some
may even subsidize corporations for moving jobs offshore,”
wrote the groups, which include the AFL-CIO and the National Low
Income Housing Coalition. “Some U.S. corporations use these
loopholes to avoid U.S. income taxes entirely.”  The Treasury Department is working on a corporate tax
overhaul proposal. Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said yesterday
that he hoped to make progress on the issue this year or next.  “We’d like to take a run at doing this ahead of the
election,” he said in response to questions following a speech
at the Harvard Club in New York.  Labor unions, which have supported President  Barack Obama ,
have resisted some Democratic tax proposals, including attempts
during the health care debate in 2009 and 2010 to impose a tax
on the most expensive health care plans. Their efforts led
Congress and the administration to scale back the proposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  