-- 
Abu Dhabi’s ATIC Investing in Chip Plant, Sees Acquisitions

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-05-18T15:58:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/abu-dhabi-s-atic-investing-in-chip-plant-sees-acquisitions-1-.html
Abu Dhabi ’s Advanced Technology
Investment Co. is expanding microchip production facilities from
 New York  to Singapore and is seeking to buy companies in other
businesses to boost returns for the Persian Gulf sheikhdom, a
company official said.  “There are a couple of potential investments” the company
is evaluating to diversify beyond semiconductors,  Daniel Durn ,
ATIC’s executive director of investments and strategy, said in
an interview in the emirate today. “We are looking for another
foundational investment in another sector.”  Abu Dhabi, capital of the  United Arab Emirates , is
expanding in industries including technology, metals and health
care, seeking to reduce its reliance on oil revenue over the
next two decades. The emirate entered the semiconductor market
in 2009 when ATIC joined U.S.-based  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) 
in chip venture Globalfoundries Inc. and then purchased
Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Ltd.  ATIC, an arm of Abu Dhabi’s government-run investment
vehicle Mubadala Development Co., will continue to invest in new
semiconductor technologies that will help growth at
Globalfoundries, Durn said. Those acquisitions of technologies
at an early stage of development will be in the range of
hundreds of millions of dollars each, he said.  Increasing Investment  Another investment would establish the company in a new
technology segment, he said, without providing detail on what
areas it’s targeting. ATIC has already evaluated and rejected
three acquisition opportunities in the range of
$3 billion to $10 billion, he said.  Globalfoundries will invest about $5.5 billion this year,
almost double last year’s outlay, to expand plants in  Singapore ,
Dresden,  Germany , and New York state, Durn said. ATIC’s share of
the spending will be about $3 billion, he said. As the Abu Dhabi
investor continues to spend, it will raise its stake in
Globalfoundries to 90 percent by the end of the year and
increase it later to as much as 95 percent, Durn said.  Globalfoundries plans to invest $6 billion to $8 billion in
a semiconductor plant in Abu Dhabi, ATIC’s  Sami Issa , executive
director in charge of operations in the emirate, said today. The
company is on schedule to break ground on the facility in 2012
and to begin producing microchips there in 2015, he said.  Durn and Issa spoke at an Abu Dhabi presentation by
Advanced Micro Devices of its new Llano semiconductor. The chip
combines normal personal computer functions with high-quality
video, Rick Bergman, AMD’s senior vice president and general
manager for products, said in an interview today. There is “no
shortage of demand” for the chip among customers, Bergman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  at   sev@bloomberg.net . 