-- 
Lady Gaga’s Disco-Crazy ‘Born This Way’ Debuts Online: Review

-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 
2011-05-18T07:54:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/lady-gaga-s-disco-crazed-album-born-this-way-debuts-online-review.html
Lady Gaga’s new album “ Born This
Way ” today made its debut online in  Europe , five days before
the official release. The hour of nonstop dance unashamedly bids
to outdo anything by Britney Spears, Rihanna and Katy Perry.  Stefani Germanotta gets off to an unlikely start, sounding
like Bonnie Tyler’s “Holding Out for a Hero,” before the disco
beats kick in as she blasts into opener “Marry the Night.”  That’s followed by the title track, with a Madonna-ish
sound on the line “don’t be a drag, just be a Queen.”  “Government Hooker” and “Judas” keep the Euro disco
party going and “Americano” adds a Latin lilt. “Hair” starts
slowly before Gaga reverts to her default dance mode. “Bloody
Mary” slows the pace with a few Madonna-style religious double
entendres, though Gaga assures us that she’s still dancing.  The ever-pulsating keyboards drive “Highway Unicorn (Road
to Love)” with references to top-down driving that will sound
good played in the Boxster parked near Venice Beach.  Like the last recordings by Spears and Perry, this comes
with catchy tunes, expensive production and a sound that’s
relentlessly radio and dance-floor friendly.  Before its release, Gaga immodestly declared it would be
“the greatest album of the decade.” Sorry, this isn’t an
insightful classic that will redefine music.  “Born This Way” will sell millions, and make millions for
Interscope and Gaga, who was the top-selling rock artist of
2010. The album was written months ago and held back because of
the continuing success of the “The Fame” and its versions
“The Fame Monster” and “The Remix.”  Rating: ***.  “Born This Way” will be released on May 23.  The CD is streaming on  Spotify  in some mainland European
countries and on  Metro.Co.Uk  in the U.K.  Download fees vary across services. The CD will be priced
from $12.98 in the U.S. and 9 pounds in the U.K.  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  London  at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or Mark_Beech on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 