-- 
Lagarde May Stake French Claim as First Female IMF Chief

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-05-19T13:41:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/lagarde-s-imf-chances-hinge-on-euro-crisis-expertise-trumping-nationality.html
France may have to rely on  Christine Lagarde ’s track record as a euro crisis fighter if she’s to
become the International Monetary Fund’s first female chief
after the resignation of her compatriot  Dominique Strauss-Kahn .  Lagarde, 55, has the negotiating skills and an
understanding of Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis needed for the
post, say analysts including Charles Grant at the Centre for
European Reform. IMF shareholders will assess if those qualities
are enough to allow France to keep the job for itself after
securing four out of the 10 managing directors since 1946.  “We should choose the best candidate, whether European,
Antarctican or Uruguayan,” said Grant, executive director of
the London-based research group. “The French have a record of
strong candidates and the obvious one now would be Lagarde.”  The next IMF chief will be at the center of debates on
determining a course for the euro region out of the sovereign
debt crisis that still threatens to push the likes of  Greece ,
Ireland and  Portugal  into default. Strauss-Kahn’s successor will
also have to restore the Washington-based fund’s image after the
former French finance minister was forced to quit today after
being charged with attempted rape and other offenses in  New
York .  Strauss-Kahn, 62, finance minister from June 1997 to
November 1999, was arrested May 14 on sexual-assault charges and
is currently detained at Rikers Island prison in New York. He
denies the allegations.  Jockeying Begins  Jockeying for Strauss-Kahn’s succession has already begun.
European officials have closed ranks to defend their region’s
65-year hold over the top job of the fund, which has never had a
female chief. Finance ministers from  Sweden  to  Spain  say the
region needs one of its own to get a handle on its debt crisis.  “Christine Lagarde has outstanding credentials,” Swedish
Finance Minister Anders Borg said today in an interview with
Bloomberg Television. “She has a lot of experience in these
matters.”  Borg also said the IMF may benefit from having a
woman at the helm. “The fact that half of the world has not
been represented as managing director” gives Lagarde’s
candidacy an additional “advantage.”  Lagarde declined to address her own candidacy today,
telling reporters in Paris that the next IMF chief should come
from Europe.  “Any candidate needs to come from among the Europeans,”
she said.  Lagarde is among those with the “truly extraordinary
profile” needed for the IMF job, especially for Europeans, said
Jacob Kirkegaard of the Peterson Institute in  Washington . She
may be “brought into play not as a northern European candidate
but as the first female head.”  Bridging Divides  A lawyer who became the first female chairman of Chicago-
based firm Baker & McKenzie LLP, Lagarde was appointed as
finance minister by French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  in 2007,
just before the onset of the financial crisis.  Lagarde’s negotiating abilities helped clinch agreement on
the euro area’s sovereign bailout fund announced in the early
hours of May 10 last year, according to a person who was there.
The 16-member group’s finance ministers worked through the night
to create a 750 billion-euro fund ($1.07 trillion) to support
financially distressed governments and hold the bloc together.  A fluent speaker of English, Lagarde attended a year of
high school as an exchange student at Holton Arms, a private
girls’ school in Bethesda,  Maryland . An avid swimmer, she was
selected for the French national synchronized swim team when she
was 15 and competed internationally for two years.  Judicial Inquiry  Lagarde is the favorite for the job, according to odds at
London-based bookmaker William Hill Plc said today. It is
offering six pounds ($9.71) for every four bet that Lagarde will
be the next IMF head, down from odds of 20-1 previously.  Lagarde still faces legal challenges of her own that could
overshadow any candidacy. Jean-Louis Nadal, the public
prosecutor attached to  France ’s highest appeals court, this
month requested a judicial inquiry into whether she abused
powers in reaching a settlement with businessman Bernard Tapie.
Lagarde says the allegations are without foundation.  Her potential candidacy faces opposition from nations
including  South Africa  and  Russia . Trevor Manuel, head of South
Africa’s National Planning Commission, is “highly respected in
the world,” Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said in  Pretoria 
yesterday. Russian central bank Deputy Chairman Sergei Shvetsov
said a developing country should be given the chance to run the
IMF to better reflect their role in global trade.  ‘Disproportionate’  “For a long time people have been saying there have been a
disproportionate number of Frenchmen at the top of international
organizations,” said John Llewellyn, a researcher at Chatham
House in  London  and a former official at the Paris-based
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  Former U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Alistair Darling,
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  and Kemal Dervis, an ex-
Turkish economics minister, would be other possible candidates,
economists said.  Emerging nations have nevertheless failed to indicate they
will rally behind one candidate. That may leave the way open for
 Europe  to get a lock on the position again.  “The way should be open to everybody,” said Uri Dadush,
director of international economics at the Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace in Washington. Still, “Christine
Lagarde would be also an outstanding candidate. She should be
put up on her own merits and may even prevail.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  