-- 
Ageas Drops as Rising Bond Yields Deplete Solvency Cushion

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-05-18T15:58:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/ageas-insurance-profit-rises-as-equity-drops-on-bond-yields-1-.html
Ageas (AGS) , the majority owner of
Belgium’s biggest life insurer, declined the most in a month in
Brussels trading after saying rising bond yields depleted the
cushion available to absorb losses in its insurance business.  Ageas fell 3.6 percent to 1.946 euros at the 5:35 p.m.
close of trading on Euronext Brussels, the lowest price since
Jan. 14. The market value of government and corporate bonds held
by Ageas insurance businesses fell by about 1.2 billion euros
($1.7 billion) in the first quarter, the insurer, based in
Brussels and Utrecht, said today in a statement.  The slide reduced  shareholders’ equity  by 9.7 percent in
the quarter to 7.45 billion euros and cut the combined solvency
of the insurance operations to close to Ageas’s lower threshold
of twice the regulatory minimum. Unlike most banks and insurers,
Ageas uses the market value of debt securities to calculate its
ability to absorb losses when that value is lower than the
amortized cost of the bonds.  The solvency drop raises the risk Ageas will have to put up
additional capital for its Belgian unit AG Insurance as most
short-term bond yields have risen further since the end of
March. At the same time, Ageas said today the available cash on
its balance sheet dropped to about 200 million euros from 500
million euros. Solvency at AG Insurance, where the bulk of the
sovereign-bond holdings are concentrated, dropped to 1.77 times
the regulatory minimum from 1.98 times at the end of last year.  ‘Pretty Comfortable’  “In  Belgium , we’re pretty comfortable with the current
position and we understand that our regulator is so as well,”
Chief Risk Officer Kurt De Schepper said on a conference call
with analysts and investors today.  De Schepper pointed out that the Belgian regulator
calculates solvency at AG Insurance differently from the way
Ageas does. Based on the regulator’s calculations, solvency at
AG Insurance dropped to 1.95 times the minimum level from 2.23
times at the end of last year, according to the quarterly report
published on Ageas’s website.  The insurer reported a net loss of 153.6 million euros for
the quarter, down from 201.1 million euros a year earlier, after
raising its estimate of the fair value of future interest
payments due to its former Belgian banking unit by 257 million
euros to 722 million euros.  Ageas pays quarterly interest to Fortis Bank SA/NV to
compensate its former banking unit for the decline in the value
of Ageas shares the bank owns to reimburse its floating-rate,
undated convertible bonds sold in November 2007. Fortis Bank,
which is controlled by Paris-based BNP Paribas SA, also holds a
25 percent stake in AG Insurance.  Deputy Chief Executive Officer Bruno Colmant said on the
call that Ageas may exclude the fair value of the future
interest payments when giving an estimate of available cash in
the future.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  