-- 
Thai Raw-Sugar Premiums Rise as Brazil Supplies Remain Limited

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-05-18T13:07:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/thai-raw-sugar-premiums-rise-as-brazil-supplies-remain-limited.html
Raw-sugar premiums in  Thailand , the
world’s second-largest exporter of the sweetener, climbed to the
highest level in two weeks as supplies from top producer Brazil
remain limited due to falling production and shipping delays.  The Thai raw-sugar premium is 1.8 cents a pound above the
New York futures price, according to Sucden Financial. As many
as 58 vessels are waiting to load sugar at Brazil’s main ports,
according to ICAP Futures LLC. The line-up is a result of a lack
of the sweetener, Luis Rangel, a broker at ICAP wrote in a
report yesterday.  “Raw-sugar premiums in Thailand have been rising in recent
days as traders continue to face delays in loading cargo out of
Center-South  Brazil ,” Peter de Klerk, an analyst a broker C.
Czarnikow Futures Ltd. said by phone from  London  today.  “The Thai raw sugar premium for nearby delivery was
reported to have traded at 180 points over July New York, the
highest in two weeks,” Nick Penney, an analyst at Sucden
Financial in London, wrote in a report today.  Sugar production in Brazil’s Center-South, the country’s
main producing region, dropped 69 percent from a year earlier at
the beginning of the harvesting season, industry association
Unica said on May 12. Production fell due to lower yields,
harvest delays and a higher percentage of sugarcane being
directed to ethanol production.  Output fell to 795,000 metric tons between the start of the
harvest in mid-March and the end of April, Unica said. In the
same period a year earlier, production was 2.56 million tons.  Raw sugar for July delivery rose 0.43 cent, or 2 percent,
to 22.36 cents a pound by 9:04 a.m. local time on ICE Futures
U.S. in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 