-- 
Alex Rodriguez Hits Two Home Runs as Yankees End Six-Game Losing Streak

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-05-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/alex-rodriguez-hits-two-home-runs-as-yankees-end-six-game-losing-streak.html
Alex Rodriguez  hit two home runs to
help the  New York Yankees  beat the Tampa Bay Rays 6-2 and end a
six-game losing streak.  Rodriguez took his home-run tally to eight this year with
his 59th multi-homer game and first this year. It was the second
time since April 23 he had more than one hit. With 621 career
home runs, Rodriguez needs 10 more to move past Ken Griffey into
fifth place in Major League Baseball’s all-time list.  The result ended the Yankees’ longest losing streak since
they dropped seven in a row from April 20-27, 2007. The skid
began with back-to-back losses to the Kansas City Royals. The
Yankees then lost 3-0 at home to the  Boston Red Sox  for the
first time in seven years before a 6-5 defeat to Tampa Bay two
days ago.  The win lifts the Yankees to 21-19, two games behind the
Rays, who lead the American League East Division standings with
a 24-18 record.  Elliot Johnson gave the Rays the lead with a home run in
the third inning last night at Tropicana Field in  St. Petersburg ,
 Florida .  Rodriguez then made it 2-1 to the Yankees with homers in
the fourth and sixth innings.  In the seventh, Chris Dickerson hit a one-run single and
Brett Gardner scored on a throwing error by second baseman Ben Zobrist to make it 4-1.  Gardner hit another run-scoring single in the ninth and
scored on  Derek Jeter ’s infield single to give the Yankees a 6-1
advantage.  Tampa Bay rounded out the scoring in the ninth when Zobrist
scored Sean Rodriguez on a ground-rule double.  Yankees starter Ivan Nova (4-3) gave up four hits and one
run while striking out four in 5 1/3 innings. James Shields (4-
2), got the loss, allowing eight hits and four runs in seven
innings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  