-- 
All Blacks’ Carter Stays With New Zealand Rugby, Gets Flexible 4-Year Deal

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-05-18T02:16:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/all-blacks-playmaker-carter-signs-4-year-contract-with-new-zealand-rugby.html
Dan Carter  signed a four-year
contract with the New Zealand Rugby Union that gives the All
Blacks’ playmaker the option of another sabbatical overseas.  Carter, his country’s leading scorer with 1,188 points in
79 Tests, will play in New Zealand until the end of the 2015
season and will stay with his Canterbury Crusaders Super Rugby
team, the NZRU said in a statement.  Carter, 29, said he had been tempted by “significant
offers” from overseas clubs before committing to his country.
Fellow fly-halves Stephen Brett, Luke McAlister and Mike Delany
are due to leave New Zealand at the end of the season for teams
in  Japan  and  Europe .  “This has been an incredibly important decision for me
personally,” Carter said in the statement. “But in the end the
overriding factor for me was the All Blacks jersey.”  Carter’s future beyond this year’s  Rugby World Cup  in New
Zealand has been the subject of media speculation in recent
months. Paris-based Racing Metro offered him a three-year deal
worth almost 4 million pounds ($6.5 million) that would have
made Carter the highest paid player in the world, the U.K.’s
Daily Mail  reported  on April 17.  While the NZRU wouldn’t disclose financial details of
Carter’s contract, the Wellington-based governing body said it
had “thought outside the square” to retain his services.  ‘Very Flexible’  “We’ve been very flexible,” said Steve Tew, the NZRU’s
chief executive officer. “We’ve built in options for Dan to
take an extended break from the game if he so wishes -- whether
that’s to take a break from rugby or play overseas.”  Carter was granted leave for six months to play for French
club Perpignan in 2009, though his time on the field was limited
by an Achilles injury. He said afterward that he’d like to
return to  France  one day.  Carter has set a raft of records since making his Super
Rugby and All Blacks debut in 2003. As well as being New
Zealand’s highest Test  points scorer , he’s tallied a record
1,174 points in Super Rugby, the southern hemisphere’s elite
provincial competition. He was voted the International Rugby
Board’s Player of the Year in 2005.  All Blacks coach Graham Henry said Carter’s decision to re-
sign was a fillip before New Zealand tries to win its first
Rugby World Cup title since 1987 in September and October.  “Daniel is the best player in the world in his position,
one of the best to have ever worn the All Blacks jersey and the
vice-captain and on-field navigator of the All Blacks,” Henry
said. “Fans both here in  New Zealand  and overseas will be
celebrating his re-signing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  