-- 
Manchester City Passes Arsenal; Reading Gets Closer to Premier League Spot

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-05-18T01:04:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/manchester-city-passes-arsenal-reading-gets-closer-to-premier-league-spot.html
Manchester City  beat Stoke 3-0 to
take third place from Arsenal in the Premier League, while
Reading defeated Cardiff by the same score to move to within one
win of rejoining English soccer’s elite division.  Carlos Tevez  scored twice and Joleon Lescott got the other
goal in Manchester last night.  City also beat Stoke four days ago in the F.A. Cup final to 
end a 35-year trophy drought. The club owned by  Abu Dhabi ’s Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed al Nahyan can clinch an automatic place in
next season’s Champions League by beating Bolton in the last
round of league games on May 22.  “We have a very good chance of finishing third which would
be perfect,” City manager  Roberto Mancini  told his club’s
website. “There is a big difference between finishing fourth
and having to qualify for the Champions League and third, where
you go straight into the group stage.”  A victory at Bolton would secure City’s highest English
league finish since 1977, when it was the runner-up. City holds
a one-point advantage over Arsenal, which visits London rival
Fulham on the final day. The fourth-place team enters a two-game
playoff for a spot in the Champions League group stages.  Tevez opened the scoring last night with a 14th-minute
strike after exchanging passes with  James Milner  and beating two
Stoke defenders. Lescott made it 2-0 with a header in the 53rd
minute and Tevez added the third 12 minutes later by bending in
a 30-yard (27 meter) free kick.  Transfer Request  Tevez, who had a transfer request rejected in December, will
probably stay at City next season, Mancini said. The striker is
torn between remaining at the club and being closer to his
daughters, who live with his estranged partner in his native
 Argentina , the  Daily Express  reported May 16.  “He has told me he wants to stay,” Mancini said. “He has
a five-year contract at this football club and I don’t think
there are any problems. I have spoken with him many times over
the last three weeks and it’s my opinion he will remain a
Manchester City player.”  Reading will face Swansea on May 30 for a place in the
Premier League after winning at Cardiff in the second game of
their Championship playoff semifinal.  Republic of Ireland striker Shane Long scored two first-
half goals, the second coming from the penalty spot, before Jobi
McAnuff sealed a 3-0 victory over the two matches following last
week’s 0-0 draw.  $146 Million Match  Winning the playoff final at  London ’s Wembley Stadium is
worth about 90 million pounds ($146 million), accountant
Deloitte LLP estimates. The winner benefits from at least 40
million pounds in additional revenue and is guaranteed payments
of at least 48 million pounds in the following four seasons if
relegated straight away.  Reading last played in the Premier League in the 2007-08
season, while Swansea is seeking to return to  England ’s top
division for the first time in 28 years.  “The target at the beginning of the season has always been
promotion, whether that be automatic or through the playoffs,”
Long told Reading’s website. “We go into the game as underdogs
again. That is exactly what we want -- we do well from that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  