-- 
Egypt Corruption Probes Rattle Moguls As Land Deal Creates Whistle Blower

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 
2011-05-19T10:18:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/land-deal-turned-one-egyptian-into-a-corruption-buster.html
Hamdy El Fakhrany didn’t set out to
strike a blow against Egyptian government corruption when he
traveled to a state land auction in 2007. All he wanted was a
quarter of an acre to build a house.  The auction was canceled, as were the others he tried to
attend over the next six months, the 53-year-old engineer said
in an interview in Cairo. Finally, a housing ministry employee
took him aside and told him how things worked in President  Hosni Mubarak ’s Egypt.  “‘You are not Hisham Talaat Moustafa’ he told me,”
referring to the billionaire whose family founded the country’s
biggest property developer, Talaat Moustafa Group Holding. “‘If
you were, you would have been given 33 million square meters
(355 million square feet) of land without an auction, and for
nearly nothing.’”  El Fakhrany left the meeting determined to keep coming back
to learn as much as he could about the Talaat Moustafa purchase.
He said he was barred from reading the contract and relied on
handwritten notes slipped to him by someone else at the ministry
to build a case that persuaded a court to annul the land sale
underpinning the 120,000-home Madinaty project on Cairo’s
outskirts. An appeals court is set to review the ruling May 24.  Publicity surrounding Madinaty,  Egypt ’s biggest property
development, prompted other people with knowledge of land sales
to provide El Fakhrany with evidence of suspicious deals. He
says he’s now the plaintiff in more than a dozen lawsuits
targeting state officials and developers.  ‘Looting’ Egypt  “I’m not against private companies working, but why can’t
they pay fair prices,” he said. “Those companies should not be
an excuse to loot Egypt.”  A court reversed a 966,000-square-meter land sale to  Palm
Hills Developments SAE (PHDC) , Egypt’s second-biggest publicly traded
developer, based on another suit by El Fakhrany that claimed the
price was significantly less than the market value.  Former Housing Minister Ahmed El Maghraby signed the Palm
Hills sale document, said a panel of judges who annulled the
transaction on April 26. El Maghraby owned a 4.6 percent stake
in Mansour & Maghraby Investment & Development Co., which in
turn holds 55 percent of  Palm Hills , according to a company
filing. He faces prosecution on charges of squandering public
funds and profiteering in connection with the case.  Shares of Talaat Moustafa Group fell 0.7 percent to 4.2
pounds at 11:51 a.m. in Cairo today. Palm Hills declined 2
percent to 1.92 pounds, trimming the stock’s slump to 63 percent
in the past 12 months. Six of October Development & Investment
Co., known as Sodic, lost 3.3 percent to 63.1 pounds.  Dozens of Cases  El Fakhrany is preparing further lawsuits based on the
information he has received, saying he already has enough
documents to file 76 cases that challenge 126 projects. The
contracting-business owner said he is working with his daughter,
Yasmin, a practicing dermatologist, and using his own income to
cover legal costs. El Fakhrany said he only hires lawyers for
appeals cases, when they are required by law.  “If I had to pursue all those cases, I would spend all my
time in the courts and parliament,” he said. “I would have to
live there.”  His efforts have won him criticism as well as admiration. A
Facebook page superimposes his face on a picture of a pirate and
says “Together, let’s sue Hamdy El Fakhrany.” More than 400
people have indicated they like the page.  The size of the Madinaty deal and the government’s attempts
to override the court ruling became a focus of criticism of
Mubarak, his family and corruption in Egypt. A popular uprising
that started in January forced he president to resign after 30
years in power.  Sweetheart Deal  El Fakhrany already knew some details of the Madinaty
contract before a court order finally allowed him to view it.
Even so, he said, he was still shocked by the terms.  Talaat Moustafa Group (TMGH)  received 33 million square meters of
land, which it pledged to develop over 25 years under the 2005
deal, which was completed without a public auction, El Fakhrany
said. In return, the state was entitled to 7 percent of the
residential properties built, while the developer would get 93
percent, he said. Madinaty is designed to house 600,000 people
and include a golf course, hotels, commercial space, a shopping
center and schools.  The government also agreed to fully exempt the developer
from all taxes and fees incurred during construction, including
imports of construction materials, and relinquished rights to
any commercial or retail space developed on the land, El
Fakhrany said.  Like an Enemy  “The deal couldn’t have been any more slanted on the side
of the developer and against Egypt,” he said. “It was like it
was drafted by an enemy of the state.”  Jihad Alsawaftah, chief financial officer at Talaat
Moustafa Group, didn’t return calls made to his mobile phone and
two e-mails sent to him seeking comment.  Housing Minister El Maghraby insisted the court’s decision
last June to cancel the contract wouldn’t derail the Madinaty
project. Almost two months later, Egypt’s public prosecutor
ended an investigation into the land purchase without pressing
any charges.  An appeals court upheld the earlier court ruling canceling
the sale. A committee formed by Prime Minister Ahmed Nazif
responded by revoking the sale and reallocating the same land to
the Talaat Moustafa under a new contract, saying the law allows
it to allocate land by a direct order to “protect the public
interest.”  On Nov. 23, an appeals court ruled on the case again,
saying the state must respect an initial verdict canceling the
land sale. The government then said it would change the law to
allow the project to go ahead.  Exit Mubarak  Before that could happen, Egyptians swept Mubarak’s
government from power. Housing Minister Maghrabi was arrested on
corruption charges, along with Mubarak himself and his sons Alaa
and Gamal.  “All the companies that benefited had at their helm people
who were close to Mubarak,” El Fakhrany said. “There was a
culture of looting. Everyone saw people around them plunder and
thought: ‘why not me?’”  While investigating the Madinaty case, El Fakhrany
discovered that a Cayman Islands-based fund called Horus
Investments III was a shareholder in Talaat Moustafa Group and
lists Mubarak’s son Gamal as one of its owners.  Shareholders in High Places  Egypt-based investment bank EFG-Hermes said in a February
filing that  Gamal Mubarak , the president’s son and former head
of  National Democratic Party ’s policy committee, owned 18
percent of its EFG Private Equity subsidiary. Of the two current
funds at EFG Private Equity, both Horus Private Equity Fund II
and Horus Private Equity Fund III have invested in Talaat
Moustafa Group Holding, according to information on EFG-Hermes’s
website.  Hisham Talaat Moustafa, who was elected to the Egyptian
parliament’s shura council in 2004, was convicted in May 2010 of
paying a former police officer to kill his former girlfriend,
Lebanese pop singer Suzanne Tamim. His sentence was reduced from
death to 15 years in prison after a retrial that ended in
September.  During the interview with El Fakhrany, in the cafe of the
journalists syndicate in Cairo, a woman approached and asked if
she could contact him and provide some documents to review. She
thanked him for his work.  “All the land, which was acquired through corruption, must
be returned to the country or those companies must pay the fair
value for it,” El Fakhrany said. “Only then, we will settle
and let the projects go on.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net 
Mahmoud Kassem at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 