-- 
Manhattan Prosecutor Quits Strauss-Kahn Case Due to Conflict of Interest

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-05-19T03:00:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/manhattan-prosecutor-said-to-withdraw-from-strauss-kahn-case-over-conflict.html
A top New York prosecutor
disqualified herself from the case of  Dominique Strauss-Kahn 
because her husband works for the International Monetary Fund
chief’s defense lawyer.  Executive Assistant District Attorney Karen Friedman Agnifilo, chief of the trial division at the Manhattan District
Attorney’s office, won’t work on the case, said  Erin Duggan , the
chief spokeswoman for Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr., in a statement.  Agnifilo recused herself from the case “as soon as the law
firm of Brafman & Associates, with which her husband is
associated, was engaged as counsel for the defendant,” Duggan
said in today’s statement. “This is consistent with routine
practice.”  Agnifilo is married to Marc Agnifilo, an attorney at New
York-based Brafman & Associates PC. Benjamin Brafman has been
hired as defense counsel for Strauss-Kahn and has said his
client will plead not guilty to the charges that he sexually
assaulted and attempted to rape a New York hotel housekeeper.  Strauss-Kahn, denied bail at a May 16 hearing, filed a new
request today to be released while awaiting trial and will
return to court tomorrow.  “It’s a loss for the DA’s office not to have Karen
involved,” said Tom Curran, a New York defense attorney and
former Manhattan assistant district attorney. Curran, who isn’t
involved in the case, said that the office has highly qualified
prosecutors to take her place.  “In crimes where sexual misconduct is alleged, the
Manhattan District Attorney’s office wrote the book,” he said.  The office established the country’s first Sex Crimes Unit
in the 1970s.  Karen Friedman Agnifilo and Marc Agnifilo didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  