-- 
Brazil Dollar Flows ‘Reasonable’ Again on Government Steps, Mantega Says

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 
2011-05-18T17:27:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/mantega-says-brazil-dollar-flows-slowed-to-a-reasonable-level.html
Brazil  received nearly six times more
currency flows in the first 13 days of May than it did in the
whole of April, as investors seek to profit from higher  interest
rates .  Inflows rose to $8.8 billion in May 1-13 period, from $1.5
billion for all of April, according to the central bank. Policy
makers increased borrowing costs by 125 basis points, or 1.25
percentage point in 2011, in a bid to contain inflation
currently running above the government’s target for the first
time since 2005.  “You can’t swim against current -- while you have this
level of interest rates, capital will continue to be
attracted,”  Francisco Carvalho , head of  currency trading  at
Liquidez DTVM Ltda, said in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo 
today. “The interest rate differential remains so big that it’s
still better to bring money to Brazil, even with interest rate
increases in other economies.”  Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  last year accused
rich nations of provoking a “global currency war” by keeping
interest rates at near-zero levels. The real last month
strengthened to a 32-month high and is up 44 percent against the
 U.S. dollar  since 2008, the best performance among seven Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The currency erased
losses to rise 0.2 percent at 1:06 p.m. New York time to 1.6119
per dollar after today’s inflow report was released, according
to Bloomberg data.  ‘Tough Measures’  Brazilian President DilmaRousseff’s administration on
March 29 increased to 6 percent a tax on new corporate loans and
debt sales abroad by banks. A few days later, Rousseff applied
the higher tax to renewed, renegotiated, or transferred loans of
up to two years in length.  Companies previously paid a 5.38 percent tax on loans up to
90 days and zero tax when the operation exceeded three months.
In October, Mantega tripled to 6 percent a tax on foreign
investors’ fixed-income purchases.  Mantega, in an interview yesterday with Globo News
television, said dollar inflows into the country have returned
to a “reasonable” level, after the government took steps to
stem a flood of foreign money.  “In March, we had a torrent of dollars,” Mantega said in
an interview yesterday with Globo News television. “We took
tough measures, the IOF tax, and we succeeded in stemming the
flow. In May it returned to a reasonable level.”  ‘Water on the Fire’  Brazilian inflation is being stoked by the country’s tight
labor market, and the service sector, Mantega said. Emerging
markets with heated economies, such as Brazil, India and  China ,
risk inflation from commodity price inflation spreading to other
areas, Mantega said.  Annual consumer price inflation breached the upper limit of
its target range in April, accelerating to 6.51 percent, the
fastest pace since 2005.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini raised the
benchmark Selic by 25 basis points to 12 percent on April 20
after 50 basis-point increases in January and March. The central
bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two
percentage points.  Brazil is trying to cool the economy, without slowing
growth too much, Mantega said.  “We want to throw water on the fire, without putting it
out,” Mantega said. “We want the economy to keep growing.”  Job Growth  Brazil added 272,225 registered jobs in April, the second-
fastest pace in almost a year, the Labor Ministry reported
yesterday.  Brazil’s unemployment rate reached a record low of 5.7
percent in December before rising to 6.5 percent in March, the
lowest ever for that month. The economy is near full employment,
Rousseff said last month.  The country’s high interest rate is necessary for the time
being, Mantega said.  Brazil will seek to cut to payroll taxes that firms pay, to
help businesses remain competitive, Mantega said. The government
also wishes to cut the state sales taxes, Mantega added. The
 Finance Ministry  will propose the cuts by June, he said.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
October 2011, the most traded in Sao Paulo today, rose three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 12.22 percent at 1:16
p.m. New York time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net 
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  