-- 
Apple IPad’s ‘Buzz Saw’ Success Cuts PC Sales at HP, Dell

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-05-18T20:25:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/apple-ipad-s-buzz-saw-success-cuts-into-pc-sales-at-hp-dell.html
The iPad is wreaking havoc on the
personal-computer market.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s consumer PC sales plunged 23 percent
last quarter, and the company lopped $1 billion off its annual
sales forecast. And while rival  Dell Inc. (DELL)  beat analysts’
estimates because of corporate demand, its sales to consumers
slumped 7.5 percent. More than 70 million tablets like the  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  iPad will be sold in 2011, a total that will balloon to 246
million in three years, Jefferies & Co. said yesterday.  “You’re walking into a buzz saw,”  Jane Snorek , a senior
 research analyst  at Nuveen Asset Management in  Milwaukee , said
of the iPad. Her firm manages more than $200 billion in assets.
“The tablet is going to replace at least the home computer.”  At 7.3-inches  across  with a color screen and an array of
popular downloadable games like “Angry Birds,” applications
for watching movies and reading magazines, and software for word
processing and spreadsheets, the iPad has siphoned off more PC
sales than analysts and executives predicted.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , and run by  Steve Jobs , sold 4.69 million iPads last quarter, for a total of about
20 million since the April 2010  debut . Apple shares increased
$3.73, or 1.1 percent, to $339.87 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading, for the biggest gain in
almost four weeks.  The PC market, by contrast, declined last quarter. Global
shipments fell 3.2 percent, hurt in part because some consumers
bought tablets instead, research firm IDC reported last month.  While rivals including  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co. have begun
selling tablets, the devices have yet to gain wide traction.  Microsoft, Intel Impact  The lack of viable competitors was felt across the PC
industry in the first quarter. Microsoft Windows sales fell 4.4
percent to $4.45 billion. Its net income of $5.23 billion was
eclipsed by the $5.99 billion reported by Apple, which topped
its rival in that measure for the first time in 20 years.  At Intel, whose processors run more than 80 percent of the
world’s personal computers, growth in the PC-chip division came
mainly from emerging markets and corporate sales.  Hewlett-Packard, the top PC maker, yesterday cleaved 20
cents a share from its annual earnings forecast, to $5,
excluding items. The revised outlook sent the shares tumbling
7.3 percent on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday and left
the stock down 12 percent since the last business day before
Nov. 1, when  Leo Apotheker  took over as chief executive officer.  “Leo comes in just as the tablet is taking off, and the
consumer PC market is waning,” Snorek said.  ‘Bifurcated Market’  In a conference call yesterday, Apotheker bemoaned a
“bifurcated” PC market, where companies are spending and
consumers aren’t. Sales in the company’s personal systems group
fell 5.4 percent to $9.42 billion last quarter.  At Hewlett-Packard, full-year sales will be $129 billion to
$130 billion. In February, HP had predicted full-year sales of
$130 billion to $131.5 billion and earnings of at least $5.20 a
share. Third-quarter forecasts from HP also missed analysts’
estimates.  Dell was able to top analysts’ estimates with its quarterly
results yesterday because of demand from businesses. Its sales
to consumers fell partly due to competition with the iPad and
other tablets, said Brian Gladden, chief financial officer of
the  Round Rock , Texas-based company.  “It’s clearly a topic of discussion and it’s a factor
that’s impacting the weak consumer demand,” he said in an
interview.  The success of the iPad, along with the iPhone and new
versions of the Mac, helped Apple supplant Microsoft as the
world’s most valuable technology company last year.  Apple’s Gains  “In terms of the rise of tablets and Apple doing extremely
well, that clearly impacts all the stakeholders in the space,”
said Abhey Lamba, an analyst at International Strategy &
Investment Group in  New York .  Hewlett-Packard plans to deliver a tablet called the
TouchPad this summer. The device will run the WebOS operating
system, which the company acquired when it bought Palm Inc. last
year. WebOS also runs on smartphones and will appear on Hewlett-
Packard PCs next year.  Intel is redesigning its chips to use less power and work
better with tablets, the company told analysts yesterday.  CEO  Paul Otellini  said the company will design future
products to make its chips more appealing for use in smartphones
and tablets. He’s trying to lessen his company’s dependence on
the PC market and have it profit more directly from demand for
tablets and phones, a market where Intel’s chips have lost out
to rival designs.  Microsoft plans to release version of Windows optimized for
touch-screen tablets next year.  Companies that aren’t selling tablets risk getting left
behind, said Tony Ursillo, an analyst at Loomis Sayles & Co.  “Most of the growth is going to come on the tablet side,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  