-- 
Harper Keeps Flaherty as Canadian Finance Minister as New Cabinet Named

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-05-18T20:54:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/harper-keeps-flaherty-as-canadian-finance-minister-as-new-cabinet-named.html
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper kept  Jim Flaherty  as his finance minister in announcing
his cabinet in Ottawa today, and also named new ministers of
industry, trade and foreign affairs.  Christian Paradis replaces Tony Clement at industry, taking
over reviews of foreign ownership and takeover rules, including
London Stock Exchange Group Plc’s bid for  TMX Group Inc. (X) ,
Canada’s main bourse. Ed Fast replaces Peter Van Loan at trade,
and will lead efforts to negotiate trade accords with the
European Union and  India  that Harper has pledged by 2013.  John Baird , holder of four major portfolios since 2006, becomes
foreign affairs minister after Lawrence Cannon was defeated in
the election.  Harper won a majority of seats in Parliament for the first
time in the May 2 election, giving him a mandate to bolster the
economic recovery with additional tax cuts and erase the deficit
with spending reductions. The Conservatives’ victory ended seven
years of minority governments that fueled spending and put the
party in control of the political agenda for the first time
since the early 1990s.  “The new ministry is fundamentally about stability,”
Harper, 52, said in Ottawa today after a swearing-in ceremony.
“Our low-tax plan for jobs and growth will strengthen the
financial security of hard-working Canadians and help ensure
 Canada  continues to be one of the top-performing advanced
economies.”  Similar Budget  Flaherty, 61, said today the government will present a
budget very similar to one he introduced in March that wasn’t
passed before the election campaign. Parliament is scheduled to
re-open June 2.  The March budget had C$7.6 billion ($7.8 billion) in new
measures including money for seniors and energy-saving home
renovations. Flaherty also rejected opposition demands to roll
back corporate tax cuts worth C$6 billion annually for
businesses such as Royal Bank of Canada.  “The question is, are Canadians going to get a fair deal
from this cabinet?” opposition leader  Jack Layton  of the  New
Democratic Party  said outside Parliament, citing the need for
improved pensions, more health care workers and  job creation .
The NDP won a record 103 seats in the election, compared with
166 for Harper’s party.  Projected Deficits  The Conservatives’ platform projected a deficit of C$30.3
billion this fiscal year and a surplus of C$2.8 billion in the
fiscal year that begins April 2014. The Canadian dollar rose
after the election in part because of optimism about deficit
reduction and spending restraint, and today traded at 97.07
cents versus the  U.S. dollar  at 4:10 p.m. in Toronto, compared
with 97.21 cents yesterday.  Today’s shuffle may mean some initiatives will be delayed,
including at the industry ministry where Paradis needs time to
be briefed about a proposed auction of new airwave space for
telecommunication companies, UBS Securities analyst Phillip Huang wrote in a note to clients.  “We continue to believe the government will move to relax
telecom foreign ownership restrictions,” he wrote in the
report, adding “the cabinet shuffle may delay the process and,
tied to that, the release of 700MHz spectrum auction rules.”  Paradis takes over from Tony Clement who was named
president of the Treasury Board, responsible for implementing
the government’s spending reduction plan estimated at C$4
billion a year. Clement succeeds  Stockwell Day , who retired
before the last election.  Quebec Ministers  Before the election, Baird was the government leader in the
House of Commons, responsible for managing the legislative
process. That role now goes to Van Loan, who was international
trade minister before the election.  Joe Oliver, the former Merrill Lynch banker and chief
executive of the Investment Dealers Association of Canada, was
named natural resources minister.  Harper named four out of his five Quebec members of
Parliament to the 39-member cabinet, including Paradis and
Maxime Bernier, who lost his post at foreign affairs in 2008
after leaving sensitive documents at his girlfriend’s apartment.
Ontario, which has the most seats in Parliament, is represented
in cabinet by fifteen ministers including Flaherty, Clement and
Baird. Flaherty has been Harper’s only finance minister since
the two came to power in 2006.  Open Process  Flaherty said today Canada supports an open process for
naming managing directors of the  International Monetary Fund ,
and reiterated that he has confidence in the IMF’s acting
managing director  John Lipsky .  Harper said he didn’t want to comment on the arrest of
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn . Asked if Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  would be a good IMF chief, Harper said Carney is “doing
a wonderful job as Governor” and “I have great confidence in
him.”  Harper today also said today he will appoint three defeated
Conservative candidates to fill vacancies in the country’s
Senate. He will name Larry Smith and Josee Verner of  Quebec , and
Fabian Manning of Newfoundland and Labrador.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 