-- 
Asian Currencies Strengthen, Led by Malaysia’s Ringgit, on Growth Outlook

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-05-18T08:37:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/asian-currencies-strengthen-led-by-malaysia-s-ringgit-on-growth-outlook.html
Asian currencies rallied, led by
Malaysia’s ringgit and  Singapore ’s dollar, on speculation
investors took advantage of recent declines in stocks and
currencies to boost holdings of regional assets.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia  Dollar Index advanced from a
one-month low as optimism about the region’s growth outlook
offset concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen. Asian
stocks rose, snapping a four-day decline. Data due this week
will show Malaysian economic growth and Taiwanese export orders
accelerated, according to Bloomberg surveys.  “Investors are still positive on the Asian currency
outlook in the medium term,” said Sim Moh Siong, a foreign-
exchange strategist at Bank of Singapore Ltd. “After the sell-
off there’s some value in Asian currencies. Stock markets are
rallying. That really helps Asian currencies as well.”  Singapore’s dollar climbed 0.8 percent from May 16 to
S$1.2425 against its U.S. counterpart as of 4:07 p.m. local
time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The ringgit
strengthened 0.8 percent to 3.0335 and  Indonesia ’s rupiah
appreciated 0.5 percent to 8,558. Financial markets in the three
countries were shut yesterday for public holidays.  The Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-
traded currencies excluding the yen, rose 0.1 percent. The gauge
touched 117.58 on May 16, the weakest level since April 18.  Domestic Demand  Emerging-market economies in Asia will expand 8.4 percent
this year, compared with 2.4 percent growth in the world’s
developed economies, according to forecasts made by the
 International Monetary Fund  in April.  The ringgit advanced from a two-month low before a report
that will show first-quarter gross domestic product rose 4.9
percent from a year earlier, compared with 4.8 percent in the
previous three months, according to the median estimate of
economists before data due around 6 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur .  “Domestic demand remains strong and there’s also the
benefit of higher prices from commodity exports,” said Choong Yin Pheng, manager for economic and fixed-income research at
Hong Leong Bank Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur.  Taiwan’s dollar gained for a second day before reports this
week that economists forecast will show the domestic economic
recovery is intact.  The island’s economy expanded 6.20 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, compared with 6.92 percent in the
previous three months, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey before data due tomorrow. A report on May 20
will show export orders rose 14.7 percent from a year earlier in
April, from 13.4 percent in March, according to a separate poll.  Baht Drops  “Economic growth is there and the  Taiwan dollar ’s
appreciation will continue,” said  Henry Lin , a Taipei-based
foreign-exchange trader at Taiwan Shin Kong Commercial Bank.  The Taiwan dollar gained 0.1 percent to NT$28.850 against
its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc.  Elsewhere, Thailand’s baht fell 0.1 percent to 30.25 from
the end of last week as financial markets re-opened after two
days of public holidays. The Philippine peso rose 0.1 percent to
43.235 from yesterday and  South Korea ’s won gained 0.1 percent
to 1,087.90.  China ’s yuan advanced 0.03 percent to 6.5039, while
Vietnam’s dong added 0.7 percent to 20,621.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  