-- 
AstraZeneca’s Olaparib Prolongs Remission in Ovarian Cancer, Study Finds

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-05-18T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/astrazeneca-s-olaparib-prolongs-remission-in-ovarian-cancer.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s experimental pill
olaparib prolonged remission rates in women with ovarian cancer,
slowing progression of the deadly disease, researchers said.  The medication, designed to prevent tumor cells from
repairing damage caused naturally or by chemotherapy, helped
women with  serous ovarian cancer  live for 8.4 months before the
tumor resumed growing, compared with 4.8 months for those given
a placebo. All 264 women were in remission when they started the
company-funded study, a time when no drugs are typically taken.  The findings reveal a broader range of patients who may
benefit from olaparib, known as a  PARP inhibitor , said senior
author Ursula Matulonis, medical director of gynecological
oncology at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in  Boston . The medicine
has mainly been studied in a small group of women with  BRCA gene
mutations  that put them at increased cancer risk, she said. The
latest trial wasn’t limited to women with the gene mutation.  “This is expanding the population that may be amenable to
therapy with a PARP inhibitor,” Matulonis said in a telephone
interview. “We are starting to hone in on where PARP inhibitors
may have the most efficacy, so you don’t give a drug to a
patient who wouldn’t have a chance at response.”  The excitement surrounding the novel class of medicines
dissipated in January when Sanofi’s BSI-201, the lead compound
in the category, failed to help patients with a hard-to-treat
 breast cancer  live longer,  Michael Leacock , an analyst at Royal
Bank of  Scotland  in  London , said in an e-mail. He gives the drug
from London-based AstraZeneca a 40 percent chance at success
with a first filing for regulatory approval in 2015, and
estimates sales of $130 million in 2017.  Medical Meeting  The findings of the study from the second of three stages
needed to win regulatory approval will be presented at the
 American Society of Clinical Oncology  meeting, which starts June
3 in  Chicago .  AstraZeneca canceled a phase 3 breast cancer trial after a
study last October showed olaparib failed to benefit women with
BRCA-related ovarian cancer more than chemotherapy and said it
was waiting for additional results before moving forward.  Patients in AstraZeneca’s trials have had to take numerous
capsules to get the correct dose of olaparib, said Jane
Robertson, the company’s medical science director. The company
won’t move to the next phase of testing for the drug until it
develops a tablet that can hold a higher dose, she said.  The company hopes to have additional data on olaparib in
combination with chemotherapy for ovarian cancer and a tablet to
take forward by the end of the year, she said in a telephone
interview.  Abbott PARP Inhibitor  A separate study showed  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ’ ABT-888, a
rival PARP inhibitor, may help patients with advanced  colon
cancer  who have no other treatment options. Cancer growth was
halted for about six months in 23 percent of the 49 patients
given ABT-888 plus Merck & Co.’s Temodar chemotherapy, and two
had their tumors shrink.  The study was funded by the  Ruesch Center for the Cure of
Gastrointestinal Cancers  in  Washington . Abbott, based in  Abbott
Park ,  Illinois , provided the ABT-888 pills free of charge. The
class of medicines is called PARP inhibitors because they block
the enzyme that helps repair damaged DNA.  “This is a classic one-two punch: the chemotherapy damages
the cancer cells and the PARP inhibitor prevents it from fixing
itself, leaving the cell to die,” said lead researcher Michael
Pishvaian, an assistant professor at Georgetown University
Medical Center’s Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center.  The researchers are analyzing tissue samples to see if they
can discern why the remaining 39 patients didn’t respond, he
said in a telephone interview. The findings will help identify
patients for future studies that may get the best results.  Ovarian Cancer Potential  More than 21,000 women in the U.S. are  diagnosed  with
ovarian cancer each year, and almost 14,000 die from it,
according to the  American Cancer Society .  About 60 percent have serous ovarian cancer, a tumor type
that often already has problems fixing damaged DNA. Using a PARP
inhibitor to block an enzyme needed to carry out such repairs
can further accelerate cancer cell death, even when given alone,
Robertson said.  “If the cell already has a deficiency in this area, it’s
like an Achilles heel where the PARP inhibitor can move in and
have a chance at efficacy,” Matulonis said. “It predisposes
the tumor cell to respond.”  Once the cancer returns, it’s much less likely to be cured,
Robertson said. While patients get treated again, fewer respond
and the benefit isn’t as long-lasting. Existing chemotherapy
drugs are too toxic for patients to get while in remission, she
said.  “This will be embraced because we know the outcome is grim
for women with ovarian cancer,” said  Karen Lu , professor of
gynecologic oncology at MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston.  The remaining question is whether the drug prolongs overall
survival, Lu, who wasn’t involved in the trial, said in a
telephone interview. “If we can continue to stretch out
survival with a drug that has relatively minimal side effects,
that is a gain for us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  