-- 
Australia’s Power Spending Faces Carbon Plan Test, Report Says

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-05-18T03:35:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/australia-s-power-spending-faces-carbon-plan-test-report-says.html
Planned electricity and energy
investment in  Australia  of more than A$240 billion ($255 billion)
in the next two decades faces an unprecedented challenge from a
proposal to cut  greenhouse gases , a government report said.  The nation’s electricity providers, including Macquarie
Generation and Delta Electricity, need to increase spending and
replace ageing networks in the world’s longest interconnected
power grid, according to an Investment Reference Group report
released by Resources Minister Martin Ferguson in Sydney. He
also issued a report from Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Ltd.  The government’s plan to charge polluters for emissions to
reduce greenhouse gases from the world’s largest coal shipper
poses an “unprecedented challenge” to the sector, the report
said. Prime Minister Julia Gillard wants to start an emissions
trading system next July with a fixed per-ton charge for the
first three to five years before an open market begins.  “With the introduction of carbon pricing policies, the
electricity sector is facing an unprecedented investment
challenge,” the Investment Reference report said. “Project and
market risks are compounded by the policy uncertainty.”  The Greens, who helped Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  form
government, want a price of more than A$40 a ton. Climate Change
Minister  Greg Combet  has said it would be “well south” of that
target as a Multiparty Climate Change Committee works to develop
the plan. Details will be released by early July and legislation
is due to be debated in parliament this year.  Price Rises  There was no recommendation from today’s reports for a A$40
a ton charge, Ferguson said today in a speech. Electricity
prices for consumers would rise 30 percent in the next three
years, slower than the 40 percent rate in the past three, he
said.  Gillard wants to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at
least 5 percent by 2020 and has set a target of generating 20
percent of the country’s energy from renewable sources such as
wind and solar power.  A Newspoll opinion survey on May 4 said some 60 percent of
voters opposed the government’s plan to implement carbon trading.
Companies including  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , Rio Tinto Group and
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  have called for changes to the plan and
have warned of job losses.  Opposition Liberal-National leader  Tony Abbott  has vowed to
fight the law, saying it will increase electricity prices in an
economy where families are already struggling with high living
costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  