-- 
Consumer Confidence in Australia Falls to Lowest Level Since June 2010

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-05-18T00:30:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/australia-consumer-confidence-falls.html
Australian  consumer confidence 
declined in May to the lowest level in almost a year after the
government announced a budget that will end 23 years of
inflation-adjusted spending growth.  The sentiment index fell 1.3 percent to 103.9 from a month
earlier, according to a  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and Melbourne
Institute survey of 1,200 consumers taken May 9-15 and released
today in Sydney.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens this month
held the overnight cash rate target at 4.75 percent, after seven
increases from October 2009 to November last year that helped
spur the currency to a record. Reports this month showed retail
sales stagnated in the first quarter and employment dropped in
April by the most since 2009, while the RBA said higher rates
will likely be needed “at some point” to contain inflation.  “The result is still sending a subdued message about the
state of the consumer today,”  Bill Evans , Westpac’s chief
economist, said in an e-mailed statement. “Responses to a
special question in this survey pointed to the budget being
poorly received with respect to respondents’ assessments of
their own finances.”  Evans said the central bank’s indication in a May 6
statement that it will need to tighten monetary policy prompted
him to forecast the RBA will raise rates by a quarter percentage
point to 5 percent at its June 7 meeting.  The Australian government forecasts mining investment of
A$76 billion ($81 billion) next fiscal year as companies
including BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s No. 1 mining company,
expand output to meet demand from China and India. The buildup
has spurred hiring and prompted the RBA to predict the
 unemployment rate  will fall to 4.25 percent by December 2013.  Australia recorded its biggest annual job growth on record
last year before hiring cooled in the first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  