-- 
Aussie Weakens Versus New Zealand’s After Wages Rise Less Than Expected

-- B y   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-05-18T02:50:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/australian-dollar-is-little-changed-after-wages-climb-less-than-expected.html
The Australian dollar fell for the
first time in four days versus  New Zealand ’s after a government
report showed that wages in the larger nation rose at a slower
pace than economists had estimated.  The so-called Aussie weakened versus 10 of its 16 major
counterparts as the wages data prompted traders to cut bets on
interest-rate increases by the  Reserve Bank  of Australia over
the next 12 months. New Zealand’s dollar advanced for a second
day versus the greenback after a report showed producer prices
rose in the first quarter.  “Nothing in today’s data, in particular the wages data,
has really introduced any sense of urgency, so I’m comfortable
that they aren’t going to hike rates before August,” said
Roland Randall, senior strategist of fixed income and foreign
exchange at TD Securities Inc. in Singapore. “Every leg up we
get in the Aussie, we’re probably going to get two steps down.”  Australia ’s dollar declined to NZ$1.3488 as of 12:28 p.m.
in Sydney from NZ$1.3538 in  New York  yesterday. The Aussie was
at $1.0632 from $1.0627 and bought 86.41 yen from 86.52 yen. New
Zealand’s currency rose to 78.84 U.S. cents from 78.49 cents.
The so-called kiwi was at 64.07 yen from 63.90 yen.  Australia’s wage price index, which measures hourly pay
rates excluding bonuses, increased 0.8 percent in the first
quarter from the prior three months, the statistics bureau said
today. That compares with the 1.1 percent gain predicted by the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 22 economists.  ‘Disappointed Market’  “The wages data probably disappointed market participants
who had been hoping for a higher figure,” said Lee Wai Tuck, a
currency strategist at Forecast Pte in Singapore. “This may
diminish the likelihood of further RBA rate increases and is
likely a negative for the Aussie.”  The RBA will raise its 4.75 percent benchmark interest rate
by 32 basis points over the next 12 months, a Credit Suisse
Group AG index based on swaps showed after the release of the
report. The prediction yesterday was 34 basis points.  New Zealand’s dollar advanced after  Statistics New Zealand 
said today producer input prices gained 2.2 percent in the first
three months of the year from the prior quarter, and output
prices advanced 1.7 percent.  New Zealand may cut pension subsidies and review other
social payments to return the fiscal position to a surplus.
Prime Minister John Key has said he may lower contributions to a
workplace savings program and review entitlements to family
payments in the budget, a four-year plan starting July 1.  The ANZ-Roy Morgan confidence index was 101.4 in April,
Wellington-based ANZ National Bank Ltd. said on April 21. The
bank is scheduled to release May data tomorrow. A number of more
than 100 shows that optimists outnumber pessimists.  “The kiwi-Aussie showed choppy trading overnight, with the
kiwi creeping higher relative to the Aussie in the early hours
of this morning,” Kymberly Martin, markets strategist in
Wellington at Bank of New Zealand Ltd., wrote in a research note
today. “All eyes, however, will be on tomorrow’s budget and to
a much lesser extent the ANZ-RM consumer confidence indicator.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ron Harui in  Singapore  at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 