-- 
Mavericks Beat Thunder 121-112 Behind Record-Setting Nowitzki Performance

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-05-18T05:02:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/mavericks-beat-thunder-121-112-behind-record-setting-nowitzki-performance.html
Dirk Nowitzki scored 48 points in a
record-setting performance as the  Dallas Mavericks  beat the
Oklahoma City Thunder 121-112 in the opening game of the
National Basketball Association Western Conference finals.  Nowitzki hit all 24 of his free-throw attempts to set a new
mark for the most foul shots without a miss in a postseason game.
Paul Pierce of the  Boston Celtics  set the previous record at 21
against the  Indiana Pacers  in April 2003.  “I made the first couple of shots and that’s always big
for a shooter,” Nowitzki said in a televised courtside
interview last night. “After that I just kept attacking. My
team was feeding me and feeding me and I had some matchups with
some smaller guys and I was able to take advantage.”  It’s the sixth time Nowitzki has scored at least 40 points
in a postseason game. His tally was two fewer than his record in
the playoffs and was achieved with no 3-point attempts on 12-
for-15 shooting. Nowitzki also tied  Michael Jordan  for the most
free throws made in a quarter in a playoff game, with 13.  Nowitzki’s performance overshadowed Kevin Durant’s
contribution of 40 points, including 18-of-19 from the free-
throw line, for the Thunder.  The win takes Dallas’ postseason winning streak to a
franchise-record seven games. The teams return to the American
Airlines Center in Dallas -- where the Mavericks are unbeaten in
six playoff games this year -- tomorrow for Game 2.  Youth vs. Experience  Oklahoma City came into last night’s matchup after a seven-
game series against the Memphis Grizzlies that included four
overtimes. While the Thunder had one day to prepare for the
Mavericks, Dallas had eight days off after sweeping the two-time
defending champion  Los Angeles Lakers .  The series pits the youth of Oklahoma City against the
experience of the Mavericks. While nine of Dallas’ 15 players
are in their thirties, 11 of Oklahoma City’s 15-man roster are
26 or younger. The top four postseason scorers for the Thunder
are aged 22 or under, while Dallas’ three highest scorers are 32
and 33.  Jason Terry had 24 points and Jose Juan Barea added 21 for
the Mavericks, whose bench outscored Oklahoma City’s 53-22.  The winner of the best-of-seven-game series will play the
 Miami Heat  or  Chicago Bulls . That series resumes in  Chicago 
tonight, with the Bulls leading 1-0 in games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  