-- 
Baidu Sued in New York Court for Censoring China Internet Search Results

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-19T10:02:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/baidu-com-accused-in-u-s-lawsuit-of-aiding-chinese-internet-censorship.html
China , responding to a lawsuit in the
U.S. that accused the Chinese government and local search engine
Baidu Inc. of censoring Internet information, said Web users are
free to express themselves.  China guarantees “freedom of speech” on the Internet,
Jiang Yu, a Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, said today in response
to questions about the case. Eight Chinese residents in New York
filed a lawsuit in the city yesterday against Baidu, saying the
Chinese company helps the government censor political expression
in violation of the U.S. constitution.  Foreign courts have no jurisdiction in China, Jiang said
today at a regular press briefing in Beijing.  China requires websites to self censor pornography,
gambling and content critical of the ruling Communist Party, a
rule that led  Google Inc. (GOOG)  to pull its search engine out of the
country last year. The world’s largest Internet market by users
blocks Google’s YouTube video-sharing site as well as social
networking services run by Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc.  The plaintiffs seek $16 million in damages from the company
and the Chinese government after their “writings, publications
and coverage of pro-democracy events” were censored and banned
from Baidu’s search engine, according to the complaint filed in
 Manhattan  federal court. They also charge Baidu and China
violated New York State civil rights laws.  Kaiser Kuo, a spokesman for Baidu, declined to comment. The
Beijing-based company, which operates China’s most popular
search engine, trades on the Nasdaq Stock Market, where its
American depositary receipts rose 3 cents to $131.84 yesterday.  “China will be required to answer the complaint or there
will be a default judgment against them,” Stephen Preziosi, the
New York-based lawyer representing the plaintiffs, said in a
telephone interview.  Baidu has enjoyed a “near monopoly” in Internet searches
in China since Google Inc. cut back on operations there,
according to a presentation this month by brokerage CLSA Ltd.  Nasdaq Trading  The complaint refers to the plaintiffs as “promoters of
democracy in China through their writings, publications,
reporting.”  “They put their stuff on the Internet,” Preziosi said.
“Now you have a foreign state using a private corporation as
its arm, agent and enforcer in suppressing and censoring
political speech.”  Two of the plaintiffs list addresses in Flushing, a
neighborhood in Queens,  New York , that has a large concentration
of Chinese-speaking Americans.  The case is Zhang v. Baidu.com Inc., 11-3388, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  