-- 
Banks Say Simpler Mortgage Form Could ‘Stifle’ New Products

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-05-18T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/banks-say-simpler-mortgage-form-could-stifle-new-products.html
For  Elizabeth Warren , the Obama
administration adviser setting up the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, simpler mortgage paperwork is a “regulatory
sweet spot” that will cut lender costs and borrower confusion.  That view hasn’t stopped battle lines from forming around
the prototype “mortgage shopping sheet” the agency is planning
to publish today. Industry groups say the revisions may lead to
limits on innovation and variety in lending, while consumer
advocates are resisting changes that might limit borrowers’
right to sue to stop a foreclosure.  The consumer bureau, created by the Dodd-Frank Act and set
to begin work on July 21, is required to propose the simplified
form by a year after its start date. Warren has said the goal is
to have a document that succinctly shows the costs of a loan and
gets to borrowers early enough to allow for comparison shopping.  “The papers come too late and are too complicated to be
helpful to consumers,” she  told  the House Financial Services
Committee at a March 16 hearing in comments about the current
system. “By the time they see most of the papers, they are at
the closing table being told ‘sign here, sign here.’”  Consumer bureau officials yesterday began showing bankers,
mortgage brokers, realtors and consumer groups two prototypes
that will be published today, according to two people present at
the meetings. The prototypes reflect different design choices
that the agency will test with consumers, rather than
alternative policies on mortgage disclosure, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the meetings weren’t
public.  The forms are based on current law and regulations
regarding what lenders have to disclose, the people said. The
consumer bureau will not address when consumers should get the
forms when it unveils the prototypes, they said.  Lack of Coordination  Until now, simplification of disclosures has been impeded
by a lack of coordination between the  Federal Reserve , which
oversees the Truth in Lending Act, and the Department of Housing
and Urban Development, which oversees the Real Estate Settlement
Procedures Act, according to Warren. That obstacle will be
removed when the consumer bureau takes over enforcement and
regulation writing under both laws in July.  The changes have been touted by Warren as a way to improve
service to consumers while helping community banks compete in a
market dominated by lenders such as  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Lenders, however, may face billions of dollars in costs if
the type and timing of documentation are changed and those costs
could be passed on to consumers, according to David Stevens, the
former Federal Housing Administration Commissioner who leads the
 Mortgage Bankers Association .  ‘Expensive’ Changes  “Changes are expensive to operationalize,” said Stevens,
who joined the Washington-based trade group this month as
president and chief executive officer. “We are not against
this, but we want to study the forms,” he said in an interview.  Warren’s plan could affect “everyone throughout the
chain” of home finance, from title firms and loan originators
to risk-hedging systems, said Stevens. The changes “could
involve lawyers and create a class-action nightmare,” he said.  Warren explicitly touted regulatory simplification as a way
to cut down on litigation during a question-and-answer session
after a March 30 address to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in
 Washington . The complexity of rules “produces people who
allegedly do not comply and therefore the opportunity for a
lawsuit,” she said.  Industry groups say the current paperwork burden in
mortgage lending stems in part from the need to provide
disclaimers designed to protect them against borrower lawsuits.
An explicit safeguard against such suits, the groups argue, is a
reasonable exchange for agreeing to use simpler documentation.  ‘Safe Harbor’  Alex Pollock, an American Enterprise Institute fellow who
has met with Warren to discuss his own model mortgage disclosure
form, has urged her to include a “safe harbor” to protect
lenders from litigation if the terms of the completed loan match
what was presented to the borrower.  “If they are telling you on the form the same thing they
are using in the underwriting, then that should be a safe harbor
for them,” he said in an interview. “You don’t want to create
new ways for rapacious plaintiffs’s lawyers to go after
lenders.”  That idea has drawn criticism from consumer advocacy groups
who say it could eliminate the option of bringing a lawsuit
based on a significant misstatement in mortgage documents.  Binding and Usable  “My concern is that we would lose the causes of action
that we use to protect people who are being foreclosed on,” Ira Rheingold, executive director of the  National Association of
Consumer Advocates , said in an interview. “The tradeoff is if
home buyers get something that is binding and usable.”  Pollock said homebuyers would benefit from getting the
documents in time to compare the proposed terms before agreeing
to a loan. Determining the correct timing will be a challenge
for the consumer bureau, he said.  “You need the form as early as possible but not so early
that you don’t have the data needed to fill out the form,”
Pollock said.  Richard Thaler, a professor at the  University of Chicago ,
has urged Warren to offer protection against lawsuits as a way
to entice lenders to offer “plain vanilla” products instead of
complex loans more likely to be misunderstood by consumers.  “Disclosure has limits if we allow products to be
complicated,” Thaler, who had a March 22 meeting with Warren,
said in an interview. “If you allow for lots of innovation,
then the disclosure problems become insurmountable.”  Provisions requiring banks to offer “plain vanilla”
products were dropped from the Dodd-Frank legislation during
negotiations in the  House of Representatives .  Banking-industry groups have expressed concern that safe
harbor protection for loans with particular characteristics --
30-year fixed-rate loans, for example -- would limit their
ability to provide products such as adjustable-rate loans.  “It’s not clear to me if disclosure is about simplifying
the documents or simplifying the product,” Bob Davis, executive
vice president at the  American Bankers Association , said in an
interview. “If you simplify the product, you stifle
innovation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 