-- 
Biggest Merger Profit Seen in Demag as Terex Spurned: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-05-19T17:19:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/biggest-merger-profit-seen-for-demag-cranes-after-spurning-terex-real-m-a.html
No company in the world can enrich
its owners more by demanding a higher takeover price than  Demag
Cranes AG. (D9C)   Demag, which almost doubled in the past year as it spurned
approaches from two potential buyers, rose 12 percent above an
unsolicited bid this month of 41.75 euros a share by  Terex
Corp. (TEX) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gap is the
widest of any all-cash proposal over $1 billion, indicating that
arbitragers are betting Dusseldorf, Germany-based Demag, the
world’s largest maker of mobile cranes used to lift cargoes from
 container ships , will get a better offer, the data show.  With more than 80 percent of the world’s trade  carried by
sea , a rebound in global demand is helping to boost returns for
shareholders in Demag, which has cranes installed in four of the
world’s busiest ports. While Terex Chief Executive Officer Ron Defeo says he won’t enter a bidding contest and “significant
overlaps” will keep away potential suitors, his bid may attract
interest from  Konecranes Oyj (KCR1V)  and  Cargotec Oyj (CGCBV) , according to
Bankhaus Lampe KG. That may boost the cost to buy Demag to 52
euros, Norddeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale said.  “People are expecting not only a bump from Terex, but also
an interloper like Konecranes for example to come in here and
make a rival offer,” said  Sachin Shah , a merger arbitrage
strategist at Capstone Global Markets LLC in New York. “Terex’s
willingness to press on demonstrates that they’re willing to pay
something higher. It seems to me Terex is aware that it’s not
41.75 euros that’s going to get this done.”  Cranes, Backhoes and Loaders  “This is a full and fair offer,” Tom Gelston, a spokesman
at Terex of Westport,  Connecticut , said yesterday. “We wanted
this deal to be friendly, but haven’t had that friendly contact
with management, so we’re working on public information alone.”  Terex, which makes cranes used at construction sites, as
well as backhoes and wheel loaders, said in a statement today it
was starting its tender offer to Demag’s shareholders of 41.75
euros for each share owned. The proposal values Demag at 1.04
billion euros ($1.5 billion) including net debt and requires at
least 51 percent of Demag’s owners to accept, Terex said.  Demag’s management and supervisory board are studying the
proposal and will provide a detailed response that will include
a recommendation to shareholders, the company said today.  Defeo, 59, is taking his offer directly to shareholders
after saying that Demag’s management refused to negotiate a deal
on friendly terms. Demag, which was taken public by New York-
based private equity firm KKR & Co. and  Siemens AG (SIE)  of Munich in
2006, is run by 54-year-old Aloysius Rauen.  Independent Streak  Rauen said on an earnings conference call May 4 that “on
several occasions in the past year, personal contact at the
highest levels” had taken place between Demag and Terex.  Terex’s approach was reviewed and “on the whole not in the
interest of the company and its stakeholders,” he said.  “They want to remain independent,” Defeo said at an
analyst meeting on May 16. “That’s the position they took last
year. That’s the position they took as recently as late March
when I spoke to their CEO, who refused additional conversations
with me.”  Terex said that buying Demag will “substantially”
increase its earnings.  Shares of Demag closed at 46.62 euros in Xetra trading
yesterday, 4.87 euros higher than Terex’s proposal. Before Terex
announced its unsolicited offer, Demag traded at 36.30 euros. A
year ago, the stock was worth less than 25 euros.  Demag slipped 1.1 percent to 46.10 euros today, while Terex
was little changed at $29.65 at 1:14 p.m. in New York.  Potential Suitors  Demag’s largest shareholder, Cevian Capital AB’s Lars Foerberg, said in an e-mail last week that Terex’s proposal is
“completely inadequate” and doesn’t reflect Demag’s value.
Stockholm-based  Cevian  owned about 10 percent of Demag as of
January, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Raising the bid by 5 euros a share to 46.75 euros would
boost Terex’s total cost by about $150 million, the data show.  Thomas Wybierek, an analyst at NordLB in Hanover,  Germany ,
says Demag may command as much as 52 euros in an acquisition, or
about 25 percent higher than Terex’s current offer.  The bid may reignite interest from Hyvinkaa, Finland-based
Konecranes, the world’s largest supplier of industrial cranes,
which approached Demag last year, according to Gordon Schoenell,
an analyst at Bielefeld, Germany-based  Bankhaus Lampe .  Helsinki-based Cargotec, the biggest maker of container-
lifting gear, may also step in with an offer, he said.  Bidding Contest  In October, Konecranes said in a statement that it
contacted Demag a month earlier to “discuss a potential
combination of the two companies.” Konecranes dropped its plan
in February after Demag showed no interest.  “The next step in the takeover battle that we expect is a
counterbid from Konecranes,” Hans-Joachim Heimbuerger, a
Frankfurt-based analyst at Credit Agricole SA’s Cheuvreux unit,
wrote in a report to clients dated May 12.  Mikael Wegmuller, a spokesman at Konecranes, and Cargotec’s
Pauliina Koivunen didn’t respond to telephone calls and e-mails
requesting comment.  Thomas Wissler, a Hamburg-based analyst at Hauck &
Aufhaeuser, says Terex may not be willing to raise their bid as
much as investors want and Demag’s rivals may be dissuaded by
regulatory hurdles designed to prevent one company from gaining
too much market share.  “The current price targets contain too much hope for a
counterbid,” he said. Wissler recommends selling the stock and
estimates Demag is worth 39 euros a share. That would represent
a 16 percent loss for investors who bought the shares at
yesterday’s closing price.  Shareholder Value  Terex, sitting on $1.1 billion in cash, is pursuing Demag
after its own shareholders lost 60 percent of their money in the
past three years through yesterday. In that span, industrial
companies in the Standard & Poor’s MidCap 400 Index returned 13
percent to owners including dividends.  The deal would boost sales at its own mobile harbor crane
business, which Defeo called a “big loser” in the company’s
analyst meeting this week. Demag, which has more than 660,000 of
its cranes and hoists currently  installed  around the world, this
month reported a 64 percent jump in second-quarter earnings as
global trade spurred demand for its harbor cranes.  Demag is profiting as global commerce increases 6.5 percent
this year after expanding a record 14.5 percent in 2010,
according to the  World Trade Organization . Emerging economies
such as  China  will lead the growth, Geneva-based WTO said.  The company has equipment installed in some of the world’s
largest container ports including  Hong Kong , Busan in  South
Korea , Dubai and Rotterdam, according to Demag’s Britta Heyn.  Global Reach  The proportion of revenue generated in emerging markets
will increase to 40 percent by the fiscal year ending Sept. 30,
2013, versus 36 percent last year, Demag said in its second-
quarter earnings  presentation . The forecast doesn’t include the
company’s option to buy a majority  stake  in China’s  Weihua Group
Co. , a maker of container cranes, Demag said.  “Terex is betting world trade will rise, and as it does,
companies like Demag will benefit,” said NordLB’s Wybierek.
“Terex’s offer for 41.75 euros does not reflect the company’s
value if factoring in its future growth rates.”  Terex is still recovering from the first global recession
since World War II. Analysts estimate Terex will have sales this
year of $5.5 billion, 45 percent less than in 2008, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Demag’s  services  division, which performs repairs,
maintenance and inspections on cranes and hoists, would cushion
Terex’s earnings, which are more vulnerable to economic
slowdowns, Hauck & Aufhaeuser’s Wissler said.  Trade and Repairs  The unit, which generates a third of Demag’s revenue,
accounted for 92 percent of operating income from its three main
businesses last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The businesses Terex are in are highly cyclical,”
Wissler said. “That’s why they want Demag -- their services
business is a buffer in times of weak demand.”  That may ultimately force Terex to offer more, according to
Ulrich Scholz, a Munich-based analyst at UniCredit SpA. He
estimates a “fair value” bid would equal about 50 euros.  “Demag has built a very strong position in services, that
makes it an interesting target,” he said. “Terex will raise
their offer, 41.75 euros is not the last thing we’ll see.”  Overall, there have been 9,503 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $940.8 billion, a 22 percent increase from
the $771.4 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Weiss in  Frankfurt  at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 