-- 
BOE Panelists Voted 6-3 to Hold Key Rate on Risks to Consumer Confidence

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-05-18T08:58:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/boe-voted-6-3-to-keep-interest-rate-on-hold-on-risk-to-consumer-confidence.html
Bank of England  policy makers voted
6-3 to keep interest rates on hold this month as the majority
warned that tightening policy now could dampen consumer spending
and hamper the recovery.  Andrew Sentance  maintained his call for a half-point
increase in the key rate from a record low of 0.5 percent while
Chief Economist Spencer Dale and  Martin Weale  continued a push
for a quarter-point increase. Governor  Mervyn King  and the other
five members of the Monetary Policy Committee voted for no
change.  Adam Posen  kept up a call for more bond purchases.  “An increase in bank rate in current circumstances could
adversely affect  consumer confidence , leading to an exaggerated
impact on both spending and firms’ perceptions of their desired
productive capacity,” the majority of the MPC said, according
to minutes of the May 5 meeting published today in  London .
“Were the downside risks to household spending to materialize,
a path for policy weaker than that implied by market prices
might become appropriate.”  A report today showed jobless claims unexpectedly jumped
the most in more than a year in April, underlining the pressure
on consumers. Inflation accelerated to 4.5 percent last month,
the fastest since October 2008, forcing King to write his sixth
consecutive open letter of explanation to the government saying
why the bank has refused to raise  interest rates .  Rate Bets  The pound remained lower against the dollar after the
minutes and the unemployment report and traded at $1.6206 as of
9:58 a.m. in London.  For the two officials arguing for a quarter-point rate
increase, the case for a move now was “finely balanced,”
according to the minutes. Sentance saw the balance of inflation
risks skewed “significantly to the upside.”  “For Weale and Dale, the case for tightening policy seemed
to lose momentum,” said  Philip Shaw , an economist at Investec
Securities in London. “Rates appear set to remain on hold for
at least a while longer.”  Investors are betting on a quarter-point rate increase in
January, according to forward contracts on the sterling
overnight interbank average, or Sonia, compiled by Tullett
Prebon Plc. Bets have wavered between November and January since
last week.  The jobless report showed that benefit claims increased by
12,400 in April to 1.47 million. The median forecast of 24
economists in a Bloomberg News Survey was for no change.
Unemployment measured by International Labour Organization
methods fell by 36,000 to 2.46 million people in the quarter
through March.  Inflation Expectations  King said in the letter to Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  yesterday that the surge in inflation is being
driven by higher sales tax and increases in energy prices.  “Continued robust growth in emerging economies or an
intensification of political instability in key oil-producing
regions might put further upward pressure on the prices of
energy,” today’s minutes said. “The sustained period of above-
target inflation might cause expectations of inflation to drift
upwards.”  Still, the bank saw “few material signs” that the level
of inflation had stoked price expectations. “Under the
assumption that  bank rate  rose in line with market yields,
inflation was still likely to fall back in the medium term, as
the temporary impacts of the factors currently raising inflation
diminished,” it said.  “Overall, the balance between the upside and downside
risks to the outlook for inflation in the medium term had not
changed sufficiently over the month for the committee members to
change their views,” the minutes said.  Risks  The U.K. economy grew 0.5 percent in the first quarter,
after a similar contraction in the previous three months. The
Bank of England said there are risks to growth from the euro-
area debt crisis and that the contribution from next trade
remained “disappointing.”  The bank’s quarterly inflation forecasts published last
week showed inflation may exceed 5 percent this year as
commodity prices rise and a weaker pound stokes import costs.  Posen maintained his call for more bond purchases, arguing
that the  consumer spending  may be weaker and the margin of spare
capacity larger than the central bank assumed. While he also saw
a risk that a “persistent increase in inflation expectations or
global price pressures could outweigh the forces pushing down on
inflation,” this risk was not material.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Jennifer Ryan} in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  