-- 
Brazil to Create Finance Stability Committee to Evaluate System-Wide Risks

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-05-18T21:55:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/brazil-to-create-finance-stability-committee-to-evaluate-system-wide-risks.html
Brazil ’s central bank created a
committee to evaluate risks to the financial system after a
fraud investigation of Banco Panamericano SA last year raised
investor concerns about the strength of the country’s mid-sized
lenders.  Bank director Anthero Meirelles said the creation of the
committee, which will have an advisory role, was not in response
to the probe of Panamericano or the central bank’s takeover last
month of Banco Morada SA. The committee, which will meet every
two months, will seek to improve monitoring of credit conditions
as Brazil adopts stricter global banking standards, he said.
Brazilian banks are “extremely solid,” with capital levels
higher than many developed nations, Meirelles added.  Sao Paulo-based Panamericano was bailed out by Brazil’s
deposit guarantee fund in November and federal police began
investigating executives at the bank for accounting fraud from
the sale of its loan portfolios. On April 28, the central bank
took control of Morada because the Rio de Janeiro-based lender
didn’t comply with  capital requirements  or provide viable
recovery plan to stay solvent.  Brazil’s central bank raised  interest rates  three times
this year and increased bank reserve and capital requirements to
slow inflation and prevent a credit bubble. The committee, which
will meet every two months, will seek to improve monitoring of
credit conditions as Brazil adopts stricter global banking
standards.  Credit Performance  “The creation of the committee transcends individual
events,” Luiz Pereira da Silva, a central bank director who
will oversee the group along with Meirelles, told reporters in
Brasilia. “The way credit influences the performance of the
economy is certainly a constant concern for the board.”  Brazil’s larger banks “severely” reduced purchases of
loan portfolios from smaller lenders since the Panamericano
probe, Rafael Guedes, managing director of the Brazilian unit of
 Fitch Ratings , said in a May 11 interview. These transactions
were an “important” source of funding for smaller banks, he
said.  Morada and Panamericano both had less than $2 billion in
assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  