-- 
Broody Danes, Dog Perk Up Quirky Met Show: Manuela Hoelterhoff

-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 
2011-05-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/brooding-danes-unloved-dog-perk-up-quirky-met-show-manuela-hoelterhoff.html
A lot of melancholy Danes and Germans
appear in the  Metropolitan Museum  of Art’s charmingly off-beat
show, “Rooms With a View: The Open Window in the 19th
Century.”  The best known is Caspar David Friedrich (1774-1840), who
painted brooding pictures of ruined churches, shipwrecks and
solitary people contemplating the moon.  A portrait of the somber artist, who would die a poor
recluse, shows him staring at his easel in a bare studio in
Dresden. In this room he painted the catalogue’s cover picture:
his slim wife, her back to us, looking through a window over the
Elbe.  A sense of longing and unspecified regret fills many
pictures.  I spoke with curator Sabine Rewald as we walked through the
exhibition.  Hoelterhoff: These folks are so quiet and well-behaved,
unlike the whores and bankers in your last show on the  Weimar
Republic .  Rewald: No drug addicts! The sitters are seen from the back
or profile. They read, write, or think in rooms filled with
light and silence.  Hoelterhoff: Unsurprisingly, the rooms feature a window.
Tell me about the window theme.  Near and Far  Rewald: The open window was a motif treasured by the
Romantics. The juxtaposition of near and far provided a fine
metaphor for unfulfilled longing.  Hoelterhoff: Everything in the distance becomes desirable.
Who created the vogue for these pictures?  Rewald: Friedrich inaugurated the motif with two famous
sepia drawings showing the views of the Elbe from his studio.  They were widely hailed and admired by critics.  Hoelterhoff: Friedrich studied in Copenhagen like so many
including Georg Friedrich Kersting, who painted the portrait of
Friedrich with his formidable sideburns and comfy slippers. One
forgets the importance of the academy there and also that these
were difficult times, thanks to Napoleon.  Rewald: The Napoleonic Wars didn’t end until 1815 and
caused great misery. Copenhagen, for example, was bombarded by
the English, though that sense of upheaval isn’t reflected in
these pictures.  Look at this domestic scene by Emilius Baerentzen. It’s a
typically modest get-together at a time when entertainment
opportunities were few. Father reads, mother embroiders.  Russian Embargo  Hoelterhoff: Some of the prettiest views, though, are of
 Rome  as seen from the Villa Medici, where lucky artists got to
stay and study.  Or Naples, especially this striking little picture by Franz
Ludwig Catel. That’s a nice dog looking down from the balcony.  Rewald: I really hate that dog and would like to paint him
out.  Hoelterhoff: I also like this picture of Louise Seidler.
Wasn’t she a painter and a friend of Goethe? Why is she shown
embroidering, not painting?  Rewald: French artists show women drawing. But in a small
city like Dresden that was against the conventions of the time.  Hoelterhoff: What happened to the Russian pictures you have
in the catalog?  Rewald: They’re not here. I had to cut an entire room.
Russia since January has canceled all loans to the U.S. because
of a World War II-related lawsuit.  Hoelterhoff: At least there are some gorgeous interiors by
Adolph Menzel, much adored by Hitler.  Rewald: Please! Maybe he liked the big history pictures of
Frederick the Great playing the flute. Not these.  A Nice Plaque  Hoelterhoff: Did you check how many of his views still
exist?  Rewald: Very few. Menzel’s Ritterstrasse exists in Berlin,
but where his house once stood there is a modern building
complex in yellow orange brick with a supermarket and fast food
shops.  Someone put up a plaque, however.  “Rooms With a View: The Open Window in the 19th Century”
runs at the  Metropolitan Museum of Art  until July 4. 1000 Fifth
Ave. Information: +1-212-535-7710;  http://www.metmuseum.org .  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse,
Bloomberg’s arts and leisure section. Any opinions expressed are
her own. This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at 
 jburke21A@bloomberg.net  