-- 
Bullard Says Fed Tightening Likely to First Allow Balance Sheet to Decline

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   M i c h a e l   M c K e e
-- 
2011-05-18T13:21:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/bullard-says-fed-tightening-likely-to-first-allow-balance-sheet-to-decline.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said the central bank may tighten policy
this year by allowing its balance sheet to decline even with
inflation showing signs of slowing in recent weeks.  “I still think it is reasonable” to expect tightening by
year end, Bullard said today in a Bloomberg Television interview
in  New York . “I like a balance-sheet-first policy and I think
the Fed will take a balance-sheet-first policy,” he said,
referring to the central bank’s option of allowing its total
assets to shrink as its bonds mature.  Fed officials are discussing how quickly to begin
withdrawing record stimulus after completing the purchase of
$600 billion in U.S. Treasuries by the end of June. Federal
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said
this month he favors raising the target interest rate this year,
while Philadelphia’s  Charles Plosser  urged a pull-back in the
“not-too-distant future.” New York Fed President William C. Dudley said the recovery hasn’t met the central bank’s goals.  “Some of the inflation numbers have been higher and it
does concern me,” Bullard said. “I do think expected inflation
has drifted back down on the TIPS market,” a reference to
investor expectations measured through prices of Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities.  “If the economy improves in the second half of the year,
then we have to keep an eye on that and watch it closely, and
expected inflation would bounce back up,” he said.  The yield on the Treasury 10-year note this week fell to
3.09 percent, the lowest level this year.  ‘Lot of Inflation’  “It seems like you could get a lot of inflation out of”
the balance sheet “if you don’t handle it correctly,” Bullard
said in reference to the Fed’s record amount of assets.  Bullard’s concern about inflation represents a turnabout
from last year, when he urged purchases of  U.S. Treasuries  to
avert a broad-based decline in prices. He was the first Fed
official to support a second round of bond purchases. Policy
makers approved the so-called quantitative easing in November.  Bullard, 50, said the Fed is likely to go to a position of
“hold” in June, then take time to assess the economy.  “The end of QE2 is high tide of easy monetary policy,” he
said, referring to the second round of bond purchases known as
quantitative easing. “It is very natural for the committee to
go on hold” and then decide what to do.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his policy-making
colleagues last month cut their forecasts for growth this year
after the economy slowed in the first quarter. They increased
estimates for inflation excluding food and energy prices.  ‘Very Strong’  If the first quarter growth had been “very strong, then I
think you would be in more of a hurry” to tighten policy,
Bullard said.  The Fed is expected to raise its target fed funds rate by a
quarter point in the first quarter of 2012, according to the
median of 68 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News this month.
The rate has been near zero since December 2008, and since March
2009 the Fed has pledged to keep it “exceptionally low” for an
“extended period.”  Bullard said he expects 3 percent to 4 percent growth the
remainder of the year.  “I am pretty optimistic the hiring will continue
throughout this year” as “you have got a lot of lean firms
that have cut what they could cut” during the recession, he
said.  Private Sector  The Labor Department said May 6 the economy added 244,000
jobs in April with non-government employers adding 268,000 jobs,
the best month for the private sector of the economy since 2006.
Other job market data remain weak, as the  unemployment rate  has
been stuck near 9 percent or higher for 25 months.  The consumer-price index increased 3.2 percent in the 12
months ended in April, the biggest year-over-year gain since
October 2008, figures from the Labor Department showed this
month. The index excluding food and energy rose 1.3 percent from
April 2010, the most since February 2010.  Bernanke said last month he expects inflation resulting
from higher commodities prices to be “transitory.”  The economy grew at a 1.8 percent pace in the first quarter
of 2011, according to Commerce Department data.  Growth will pick up to 3.3 percent in the current quarter
and 2.7 percent for the year, according to the median of 67
economists surveyed this month by Bloomberg News.  Bullard has rotated this year into an annual non-voting
position. He joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department in
1990 and became president of the bank in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  