-- 
Bullard Says Fed Should Adopt Headline Inflation Target

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-05-19T01:31:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/bullard-says-fed-should-adopt-target-based-on-headline-inflation.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said the central bank should adopt a
target for headline inflation, which includes food and energy
prices, in order to safeguard its credibility.  “It is time to drop the emphasis on core inflation as a
meaningful way to interpret the inflation process in the U.S.,”
Bullard said in a speech in  New York  today. “Many of the old
arguments in favor of a focus on core inflation have become
rotten over the years.” Core inflation excludes prices of food
and energy.  Bullard’s concern this year over inflation represents a
change from last July, when he urged purchases of Treasuries to
head off the risk of deflation. He was the first Fed official to
support a second round of so-called quantitative easing. Policy
makers in November approved the asset purchase plan.  “One immediate benefit of dropping the emphasis on  core
inflation  would be to reconnect the Fed with households and
businesses who know price changes when they see them,” Bullard
said. “With trips to the gas station and the grocery store
being some of the most frequent shopping experiences for many
Americans, it is hardly helpful for Fed credibility to appear to
exclude all those prices from consideration in the formation of
monetary policy.”  The consumer-price index increased 3.2 percent in the 12
months ended in April, the biggest year-over-year gain since
October 2008, figures from the Labor Department showed this
month. The index excluding food and energy rose 1.3 percent from
April 2010, the most since February 2010.  Rising Inflation ‘Transitory’  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last month he expects
inflation resulting from higher commodities prices to be
“transitory.” The Fed’s preferred inflation measure excludes
food and energy prices.  “The headline measures of inflation were designed to be
the best measures of inflation available,” Bullard said. “The
Fed should respect the construction of the price indexes as they
are and accept the policy problem it poses. To do otherwise may
create the appearance of avoiding responsibility for
inflation.”  Bullard said in response to audience questions after the
speech that there has been “less emphasis” on core inflation
by Bernanke in recent speeches.  “The de-emphasis part has come because if you talk too
much in terms of core inflation you’re going to get pushback
because people are” experiencing rising prices at the grocery
store and gas station, Bullard said in response to questions
from reporters after the speech. “There’s widespread agreement
that headline inflation is the goal variable for the
committee.”  Begin Tightening  Fed officials are discussing how quickly to begin
tightening policy after completing the purchase of $600 billion
in  U.S. Treasuries  by the end of June. They are also discussing
a strategy for how to remove stimulus, with a majority favoring
ending the policy of reinvesting proceeds from maturing
securities first before raising  interest rates  or selling
assets, minutes of their April 26-27 meeting showed today.  Bullard said in an interview today that the central bank
may tighten policy this year by allowing its balance sheet to
decline even with inflation showing signs of slowing in recent
weeks.  “I still think it is reasonable” to expect tightening by
year end, Bullard said today in a Bloomberg Television interview
in New York. “I like a balance-sheet-first policy and I think
the Fed will take a balance-sheet-first policy,” he said,
referring to the central bank’s option of allowing its total
assets to shrink as its bonds mature.  ‘Very Weak’ Demand  Bullard said in response to audience questions today that
the bank executives he speaks with are “very willing to lend”
and say that loan demand is “very weak.”  The St. Louis Fed president said in an interview at
Bloomberg News headquarters that any tightening campaign should
begin by shrinking the Fed’s balance sheet, which could be done
“passively” by not reinvesting maturing mortgage-backed
securities or by outright asset sales.  “Some of the inflation numbers have been higher and it
does concern me,” Bullard said in an interview. “I do think
expected inflation has drifted back down on the TIPS market,” a
reference to investor expectations measured through prices of
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities.  Watch Closely  “If the economy improves in the second half of the year,
then we have to keep an eye on that and watch it closely, and
expected inflation would bounce back up,” he said in the
interview.  The U.S. central bank should move ahead with a formal
inflation target now because of rising doubts in “parts of
financial markets” about its commitment to stem price gains, he
said.  “I and many others are determined to get this done,” he
said in an interview. “It is the best of times to make a
decision on this.”  Bullard has rotated this year into an annual non-voting
position. He joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department in
1990 and became president of the bank in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  