-- 
Bullard Says Fed to Hold on Rates Until Late This Year With ‘Softer’ Data

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   M i c h a e l   M c K e e
-- 
2011-05-18T20:14:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/bullard-says-fed-to-hold-on-rates-until-late-this-year-with-softer-data.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said the central bank may keep its
monetary-policy unchanged until late this year, and that
declining inflation expectations have curbed the need to begin
withdrawing record stimulus.  “It does take some pressure off the Fed,” Bullard, 50,
said in an interview at Bloomberg News headquarters in New York.
“I take it seriously that market indicators of inflation have
come down. The data has been softer, and these global
uncertainties have weighed on markets.”  Fed officials are discussing how quickly to begin
tightening policy after completing the purchase of $600 billion
in U.S. Treasuries by the end of June. They are also discussing
a strategy for the exit, with a majority favoring ending the
policy of reinvesting proceeds from maturing securities first
before raising  interest rates  or selling assets, minutes of
their April 26-27 meeting showed today.  “We will get some more data through the summer, have some
meetings in the fall and by that time we will have more
information of how things are moving along,” he said to
response to a question on how long the Fed would “hold” policy
after June.  Policy makers have differed in public comments on the
timing of an exit. Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis President
 Narayana Kocherlakota  said this month he favors raising the
target interest rate this year, while Philadelphia’s  Charles Plosser  urged a pull-back in the “not-too-distant future.” New
York Fed President William C. Dudley said the recovery hasn’t
met the central bank’s goals.  Key Indicator  Bullard said he sees  Treasury securities  as a key indicator
of the public’s views on inflation. The difference between
yields on 10-year notes and Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, a gauge of trader expectations for consumer prices
over the life of the debt, shrank to as low as 2.26 percentage
points today from 2.67 points April 11.  Bullard said his and other Fed members’ forecasts for as
much as 4 percent growth over the remainder of this year are
more optimistic than most private forecasts, and the central
bank would be slower to tighten policy if Fed forecasts aren’t
met. Growth will be 2.7 percent for the year, according to the
median of 66 economists surveyed this month by Bloomberg News.  “We need to see a bit stronger data,” he said. “If we
don’t, we are going to have to mark down a little bit.”  “If it is a little weaker, you could stay on hold
longer,” Bullard said. “If it is stronger, you could take a
move toward a tighter policy sooner.”  Change From July  Bullard’s concern this year over inflation represents a
change from last July, when he urged purchases of Treasuries to
head off the risk deflation. He was the first Fed official to
support a second round of so-called quantitative easing. Policy
makers in November approved the asset purchase plan.  The St. Louis Fed president said any tightening campaign
should begin by shrinking the Fed’s balance sheet, which could
be done “passively” by not reinvesting maturing mortgage-
backed securities or by outright asset sales.  “Allowing the runoff to occur seems to be a likely first
step,” he said. “Whether you would supplement that with actual
sales is controversial and undecided at this point.” Interest
rate changes would represent “bringing out the big guns” and
likely come later, he said.  “If you could get away with it, it would make sense to
shrink the balance sheet a fair amount and then come with
interest rate increases,” he said.  Balance Sheet  Asked how long it would take to return the Fed to a normal
balance sheet, Bullard said “five years is a reasonable
number.” Many participants in the April Federal Open Market
Committee Meeting agreed with that timetable, according to
today’s minutes.  “Obviously we would not dump a lot on the market at any
one time,” he said. “You would sell in a controlled way.”  Bullard said signs of job growth are among the reasons he’s
more optimistic than many economists. The Labor Department said
May 6 the economy added 244,000 jobs in April, more than
forecast by economists, while the  unemployment rate  climbed to 9
percent.  The U.S. central bank should move ahead with a formal
inflation target now because of rising doubts in “parts of
financial markets” about its commitment to stem price gains.  “I and many others are determined to get this done,” he
said. “It is the best of times to make a decision on this.”  European Crisis  In other comments, Bullard said the European debt crisis
has overtaken rising oil prices as the top risk for the  U.S.
economy , and he urged politicians in  Washington  to reach
agreement on reducing budget deficits.  “I’m a little more worried about  Europe  than anything
else,” Bullard said. Any move to restructure Greek debt, an idea
floated by European Union finance ministers for the first time
this week, “has the potential to rock global financial markets,
so it has to be handled very carefully,” he said.  In the U.S., lawmakers and investors shouldn’t take
comfort in low borrowing costs because markets are often
“complacent” about the risk from excessive deficit spending, he
said. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was 3.18
percent at 4:07 p.m. in  New York  today, below its average of
4.08 percent during the last decade, Bloomberg data show.  “You cannot take too much comfort from the fact that ‘Oh,
nobody is worried about this today,’ because when the crisis is
upon you it will really hit,” Bullard said. “It’s like the
markets are almost asleep about the whole issue until one day
you wake up and it becomes the primary issue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  