-- 
California, Ohio Use Reserves for Tobacco Bonds

-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-05-19T21:32:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/california-ohio-to-tap-reserves-to-pay-tobacco-bonds-sims-says.html
California, Ohio and Virginia will
use reserve funds to pay interest and principal on bonds backed
by tobacco company payments under a 1998 health-care settlement,
according to a report by Herbert J. Sims & Co.  Payments to the states by  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s Philip Morris
unit,  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI)  and other companies have declined
on lower U.S. cigarette sales and as the companies lose market
share to tobacco manufacturers that didn’t participate in the
settlement, according to Richard Larkin, director of credit
analysis at Sims in Iselin,  New Jersey .  “Any time you see a municipal bond go to their reserve
fund, it’s a significant sign of trouble,” Larkin said in a
telephone interview. “It’s not an imminent default, but it’s a
sign that  cash flow  is certainly far weaker than any of us
thought.”  U.S. states have more than $107.6 billion in outstanding
bonds backed by the 1998 settlement, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Under the settlement,  tobacco companies  agreed to
reimburse states $246 billion for treating smoking-related
illnesses. The companies make annual payments each April.  The amounts paid to the states declined 5.6 percent this
year, mostly because Altria’s Philip Morris decided for the
first time to withhold disputed payments, Larkin said, citing
data from the National Association of  Attorneys General . In
2010, the payments fell 16 percent after the federal government
raised cigarette excise taxes 61 cents.  Payments in Escrow  Since 2005, Reynolds and  Lorillard Inc. (LO)  have put a portion
of their payments into an escrow fund, arguing that they’re
entitled to refunds because they’ve lost market share to other
producers such as National Tobacco Co. LP, which didn’t sign the
1998 accord.  Philip Morris  made its full payments to the states, even
though the tobacco company disputed them, until this year, when
it withheld $267 million, Larkin said. Philip Morris disclosed
the escrow payment in an April 15 statement.  California’s Golden State Tobacco Securitization Corp. and
Ohio’s Buckeye Tobacco Settlement Financing Authority may use
debt-service reserves to meet the minimum required interest
payments on Dec. 1, according to bond filings.  The Virginia Tobacco Settlement Financing Corp. will need
to use debt reserve funds for its Dec. 1 payment, he said.  Issuers such as Golden State are special entities set up to
sell debt backed by the tobacco-settlement money. The states
don’t guarantee interest and principal payments on the bonds.  California Reserve Plan  California plans to draw $5.35 million from reserves to
help make a $68.3 million interest payment on series 2005 bonds
and $7.7 million to make a $87.9 million interest payment of
series 2007 bonds, both due Dec. 1, said  Tom Dresslar , a
spokesman for Treasurer Bill Lockyer.  “Like any other issuer, the state doesn’t relish, to say
the least, being forced to draw on reserves,” Dresslar said.
“Hopefully, we won’t have to be in that position again.”  Kurt Kauffman,  Ohio ’s debt manager, said his state expects
to use $6 million to $8 million in reserves in December, based
on current projections.  “We have a $389 million funded reserve so that offers a
significant degree of protection to investors,” Kauffman said
in a telephone interview.  Virginia’s director of debt management, Evelyn Whitley,
said her state will draw $3.6 million from reserves to make a
Dec. 1 interest payment.  “I don’t think it should come as any great surprise,”
Whitley said. The state filed a notice when it didn’t make
sinking-fund payments last year, she said, and investors
“realized it was cutting it close then.”  Lower Investment Returns  Besides payment declines, California and Virginia also
received lower-than-expected investment returns on their debt-
service reserves, Larkin said. Both states put the money in
investment contracts with  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , which
filed for bankruptcy in 2008, he said.  While it’s unlikely that more Americans will take up
smoking, the outlook for tobacco bonds may improve if U.S.
states win a legal challenge to the companies that are
withholding payments, Larkin said. About $2 billion held in
escrow would go to the states, he said.  “That boost in cash flow would be significant,” Larkin
said. “If the states lose, it will look a lot worse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 