-- 
Cameron Declines to Fire Justice Secretary Ken Clarke Over Rape Comments

-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 
2011-05-18T15:48:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/cameron-told-to-sack-clarke-urges-clarity-on-u-k-rape-sentencing-terms.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  gave his
backing to Justice Secretary Ken Clarke, rejecting calls to
dismiss him after criticism that he underplayed the seriousness
of rape as a criminal offense in media interviews.  Clarke today proposed cutting prison sentences for rape
offenders who plead guilty at an early stage. One rape victim
broke down in tears on a BBC Radio 5 show this morning when
asked about his idea. The unnamed woman caller said she suffered
two years of trauma before her attacker pleaded guilty and told
Clarke his plans are a “disaster.”  “This morning the justice secretary was on the radio
suggesting there was ‘serious rape’ and other types of rape,”
the opposition  Labour Party  leader,  Ed Miliband , told Cameron at
the prime minister’s weekly question-and-answer session in
Parliament in London at midday. “The justice secretary should
not be in his post by the end of today.”  A spokeswoman for Cameron then said Clarke should clarify
his position. The justice secretary embarked on a round of media
interviews to say he’d never seen rape as anything but a serious
crime and that his plans had been misunderstood.  “If people have been offended by those comments then
that’s clearly regrettable,” Cameron’s spokesman, Steve Field,
told reporters this afternoon, announcing the premier’s support
for Clarke. “The prime minister thinks it was important, as
does the justice secretary, that the justice secretary went out
and clarified the position.”  Clarke’s plans could see rapists having their sentences
halved if they plead guilty before a case goes to trial. That
may mean a sex attacker could serve as little as 15 months.  ‘Ordeal’  After a spokeswoman for Cameron said the proposals weren’t
yet government policy, the justice secretary said in his
afternoon interviews there would be a public consultation on the
plans, which would also apply to other serious crimes.  “The reason for giving a discount for pleading guilty is
so the victim doesn’t have to be put through the ordeal again,”
Clarke told Radio 5. “We’ll give you credit if you put your
hands up, stop messing about and don’t make it worse for the
victim.”  The crying woman told Clarke: “I wouldn’t wish what I went
through, fighting the criminal-justice system for 688 days, on
my worst enemy. I’d gone through the trauma of it, for the 688
days and then on that 688th day he pleads guilty and gets out
early.”  It is not the first time Clarke has caused controversy in
government. The justice secretary, 70, who served under former
Conservative Prime Ministers  Margaret Thatcher  and John Major,
has been outspoken on the risks to the U.K. economy.  Prison Parties  Last year, he allowed a junior minister in his department
to announce that prisoners would be allowed to hold taxpayer-
funded parties, prompting attacks in tabloid newspapers.  “I have not heard the justice secretary’s interview, but
the position of the government is very clear -- that there is an
offense called rape and anyone who commits it should be
prosecuted, convicted and punished very severely,” Cameron told
lawmakers in reply to Miliband’s demand.  Cameron’s government has come under a series of attacks
this week. Yesterday, a leaked letter from Defense Secretary
 Liam Fox  objected to spending on foreign aid, highlighting a
split in Cabinet opinion. Today, Home Secretary Theresa May
shared a platform with police officers angry at budget cuts.  ‘False Indignation’  In one of his later appearances, Clarke said the
controversy over his comments amounted to “false indignation.”  “What is happening, which is always happening in politics
-- I’m not surprised by this -- is slightly spinning and loading
of what I said in order to get what I regard as false
indignation,” Clarke told the  BBC ’s Politics Show. “The
proposal I’m making, a discount on an early plea, applies to
every criminal offense in the book, it has good reasons for
it.”  Asked in an interview with Sky News if he would apologize
for his morning comments, Clarke said he would examine the
transcript of the original radio interview to see if he had
caused offense.  “I’ll have a look when I get the chance,” he said. “If
I’ve given the impression that I do not regard all rape as a
serious crime, I’ll sit down and have a look at it and see how
on earth I gave that impression. I’ll make sure I give my views
more clearly in future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 