-- 
Canada’s Dollar Erases Losses, Gains for Second Day as Commodities Advance

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-05-18T21:21:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/canadian-currency-trades-near-seven-week-low-on-reduced-rate-boost-wagers.html
Canada ’s dollar strengthened versus
its U.S. counterpart for a second day as commodities including
crude oil climbed, fueling demand for higher-yielding assets.  The loonie, as Canada’s currency is sometimes known for the
image of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, erased earlier losses
versus the greenback as the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index
of 19 raw materials gained as much as 2.6 percent and crude oil
topped $100 a barrel. Raw materials including oil account for
about half of Canada’s export revenue.  “The CRB has rallied; it’s had a huge move today,” said
 Andrew Busch , a global currency strategist at Bank of Montreal’s
BMO Capital Markets unit in  Chicago . “People are saying,
Australia and Canada, the guys who export a lot of this, are
going to benefit.”  The Canadian currency appreciated 0.2 percent to 97.01
cents versus the  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, after falling
as low as 97.59 cents in earlier trading. Yesterday the loonie
touched 97.94 cents, the weakest level since March 28. One
Canadian dollar buys $1.0308 U.S. cents.  Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit has moved back
its forecast for the next Bank of Canada interest-rate increase
to September, from July, according to  David Tulk , chief Canada
macro-strategist at TD Securities, in a comment on the outlook
for borrowing costs in a report sent to clients yesterday. The
central bank’s target rate for overnight loans between
commercial banks has been 1 percent since September.  Not in ‘Hiking Mode”  “I don’t think people are really viewing the  Bank of
Canada  in hiking mode just yet,” said Brian Kim, a currency
strategist at UBS AG in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , referring to the
likelihood of the Bank of Canada raising interest rates.  UBS predicts the Canadian dollar will depreciate to C$1.05
versus the U.S. currency by the end of the year.  The Bank of Canada will wait longer because policy makers
are “concerned with the risks of fiscal contraction in the
 United States  and a deceleration in growth across emerging-
market economies,” the note said.  The yield on September 2011 bankers’ acceptances ended
yesterday at 1.46 percent, matching the lowest level on a
closing basis since March 16, when it was also 1.46 percent. The
contract was at 1.47 percent today.  So-called Bax contracts average about 18 basis points, or
0.18 percentage point, above the central bank’s overnight
target, Bloomberg data since 1992 show.  Jeremy Stretch , executive director and head of currency
strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC World
Markets unit in  London , said the firm is maintaining its
forecast for the central bank to raise rates in July, “but
obviously as the global backdrop deteriorates, the burden of
proof for central bankers gets higher.”  Carney’s View  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said in Ottawa earlier
this week that “while many emerging economies have begun
raising  interest rates  and applying other restrictive measures,
monetary policies remain quite stimulative.”  Underlying inflation remains “subdued,” though increases
in energy and food prices will keep the rate as measured by the
consumer price index above 3 percent for the “short term”
before it slows to the bank’s 2 percent target in the middle of
2012, Carney said in the speech.  Inflation accelerated to a 3.4 percent annual pace last
month from 3.3 percent in March, according to the median
forecast of 27 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The report from
Statistics Canada on consumer prices is due May 20.  Oil Gains  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, rose as much
as 4.2 percent to $100.99 a barrel in  New York  after dropping
yesterday to $96.91, the lowest settlement since Feb. 22. The
MSCI World Index of developed-nation stocks gained 1 percent
after falling 1.2 percent last week.  Government bonds  dropped for the first time in four days,
driving the five-year yield up six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 2.54 percent. The price of the 2 percent
security due in June 2016 dropped 29 cents to C$97.49.  Canada sold C$3.5 billion ($3.6 billion) of five-year debt
today, drawing an average yield of 2.567 percent. The government
received bids of C$9.1 billion for the 2.75 percent securities
maturing in September 2016, according to a statement on the Bank
of Canada’s website.  Canadian wholesale sales and  Statistics Canada ’s index of
leading economic indicators both advanced, with gains tempered
by weakness in  consumer spending .  Wholesale sales rose 0.1 percent in March, the Ottawa-based
agency said, below all 18 responses in a Bloomberg News survey
of economists that had a median forecast of a 1.2 percent
advance. The agency’s index of leading economic indicators
increased 0.8 percent in April, compared with the 0.6 percent
gain that economists had forecast.  “We had a weak wholesale sales number, and that hurt” the
loonie, Busch said in a telephone interview. “That’s maybe why
it’s been a laggard.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia, at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  