-- 
Canadian Natural Gas Prices Rise as U.S. Cooling Demand Climbs

-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 
2011-05-18T16:06:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/canadian-natural-gas-prices-rise-as-u-s-cooling-demand-climbs.html
Canadian natural gas prices rose as
forecasts of warmer weather in the U.S. Midwest and Northeast
signaled increased air conditioner use and demand for the fuel
from  power plants .  Cooling demand in  New York  and Chicago will be above normal
at least until May 25, according to Belton, Missouri-based
forecaster Weather Derivatives. Chicago will have a high of 81
degrees Fahrenheit (27 Celsius) on May 22, 9 degrees above
normal, according to AccuWeather Inc. Power plants use 30
percent of U.S. gas supplies.  “It’s a recovery from the lows that we saw yesterday,”
said Peter Linder, investment manager at DeltaOne Capital
Partners in Calgary. “We’re getting very shortly into the
summer cooling season, the rig count in the U.S. is down from a
week ago because they are drilling fewer gas wells and it’s in
sympathy with the oil price, which is up.”  Alberta  gas for June delivery rose 3 cents, or 0.8 percent,
to C$3.605 per gigajoule ($3.51 per million British thermal
units) as of 11 a.m. New York time, according to  NGX,  a Canadian
Internet market. Gas traded on the exchange goes to users in
 Canada  and the U.S. and is priced on TransCanada Corp.’s Alberta
system.  Natural gas for June delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  rose 0.8 cent to $4.19 per million Btu.  Alberta System  Volume on  TransCanada’s  Alberta system, which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 16.2 billion cubic
feet as of 10 a.m. in New York, 125 million below its target
level. Some Alberta producers have been forced to shut gas wells
because of forest fires raging in the northern portion of the
province.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.36 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the  Chicago  area, the
daily flow rate was 1.62 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 555 million cubic feet. The system was forecast
to carry 1.43 billion cubic feet today, about 72 percent of its
capacity of 1.98 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 