-- 
Canada March Wholesale Trade Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-05-18T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/canada-march-wholesale-trade-report-text-.html
The following is the text
of  Canada 's wholesale trade report for March from
 Statistics Canada .  Wholesale sales edged up 0.1% to $46.8 billion in
March, following a 0.9% decline in February.  Gains in the miscellaneous and the motor vehicle and
parts subsectors in March were offset by declines in the
machinery, equipment and supplies and the food, beverages
and tobacco subsectors, amongst others.  In volume terms, wholesale sales rose 0.4% in March.  The results in March were mixed, with three of the
seven subsectors reporting higher sales.  The miscellaneous subsector (+2.3%) posted the largest
increase, following a 3.4% decline in February. Most of
the industries in this subsector registered gains in
March.  Sales in the motor vehicle and parts subsector rose
0.6%. The 2.6% increase in the motor vehicle industry was
almost cancelled out by the steep decline in the new motor
vehicle parts and accessories industry (-5.8%).
Wholesalers in this industry sell mainly to retailers and
dealers.  Sales in the machinery, equipment and supplies
subsector were down 0.6%, mainly because of weaker sales
in the computer and communications equipment and supplies
industry (-3.0%).  Wholesale sales of food, beverages and tobacco fell
0.4%, the second consecutive decline.  Sales up in half of the provinces  Wholesale sales were up in five provinces in March.  Wholesalers in  Alberta  contributed the most to the
increase, followed by wholesalers in Saskatchewan. On the
other hand, decreases were concentrated in Ontario and
 Quebec .  In Alberta, wholesale sales increased 1.9% to $5.6
billion in March. This increase was mainly a result of
higher sales in the construction, forestry, mining, and
industrial machinery, equipment and supplies industry.  In Saskatchewan, wholesale sales rose 5.9% in March,
reflecting higher sales in the agricultural supplies
industry.  Wholesale sales fell for a second consecutive month in
Ontario and Quebec. Ontario, which accounts for more than
50% of all wholesale sales, registered a 0.4% decline in
March, while sales in Quebec decreased 0.6%.  Inventory levels up  Inventories rose 0.8% in March to $54.9 billion, a
third consecutive increase. Since December, inventories
have climbed 3.5%, following a relatively stable period in
the second half of 2010.  In March, increases were reported by wholesalers in 16
of the 25 industries, led by the construction, forestry,
mining, and industrial machinery, equipment and supplies
industry (+3.6%) and the pharmaceutical and pharmacy
supplies industry (+2.9%).  The inventory-to-sales ratio remained unchanged at
1.17, which is comparable to the level observed throughout
2010.  The inventory-to-sales ratio is a measure of the time
in months required to exhaust inventories if sales were to
remain at their current level.  Note to readers  All the data in this release are seasonally adjusted
and in current dollars, unless otherwise noted.  Wholesale sales expressed in volume are calculated by
deflating current dollar values using import and industry
product price indexes. Since many of the goods sold by
wholesalers are imported, fluctuations in the value of the
Canadian dollar can have an important influence on the
prices of goods bought and sold by wholesalers.  The wholesale sales series in chained (2002) dollars is
a chained Fisher volume index with 2002 as the reference
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  