-- 
CBS Plans to Add Three Dramas, Two Comedies on TV’s Most-Watched Network

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-05-18T13:14:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/cbs-adds-3-dramas-2-comedies-next-season-on-tv-s-most-watched-network.html
CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s TV network will add three
dramas and two comedies to a schedule that is already home to 13
of broadcast television’s most-watched shows.  “Person of Interest,” from producer J.J. Abrams, and “A
Gifted Man,” featuring Patrick Wilson, will air in the season
starting in September, New York-based CBS said today in an e-
mailed statement. The network canceled “$#*! My Dad Says” and
“The Defenders” after one season.  CBS is adding the fewest shows compared with rivals NBC,
Fox and ABC after its audience shrank the least of any of the
big four U.S. broadcast networks.  Ashton Kutcher  will join the
cast of “Two and a Half Men,” the most-watched comedy on TV,
after CBS fired the show’s star,  Charlie Sheen .  Freshman programs “Blue Bloods,” starring Tom Selleck,
and the comedy “Mike & Molly,” will return for a second
season, CBS said.  The network averages 11.7 million prime-time viewers
nightly, 1.3 percent fewer than last season, according Nielsen
Co. data. CBS averages 3.82 million viewers ages 18 to 49, a
group targeted by advertisers, the second most after  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox, which averages 4.55 million.  Advertising Commitments  CBS, controlled by Chairman  Sumner Redstone , gained 57
cents, or 2.2 percent, to $26.06 yesterday in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares had climbed 37 percent
this year before today.  Broadcast and cable networks are releasing television
schedules this week ahead of meetings with marketers on
advertising commitments for the next TV season.  Advertisers will make about $9.02 billion in advance
commitments this year, a 5 percent increase from the $8.61
billion made in 2010,  Spencer Wang , an analyst at Credit Suisse,
estimated in a May 9 report.  CBS is expected to gain $2.72 billion in advance sales, the
most of any network, Wang wrote. That is 10 percent more than
the $2.5 billion CBS received in 2010 and it’s the biggest
increase of the broadcast networks, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  