-- 
China April Home Prices Gain as Smaller Cities Defy Curbs to Cool Market

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-18T08:56:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/china-april-home-prices-gain-as-smaller-cities-defy-efforts-to-curb-prices.html
China ’s home prices rose in 67 of 70
cities monitored by the government in April from last year, led
by smaller cities that are defying efforts to control property
prices nationwide.  Housing prices increased at a faster pace in smaller cities
and slowed in major ones, data posted on the statistics bureau’s
website today showed. New home prices in Urumqi, capital of far
western Xinjiang province, posted the biggest gain, up 9.3
percent last month from a year earlier, while prices in northern
Mu Danjiang climbed 8.7 percent. In the capital Beijing, prices
rose 2.8 percent in April, compared with 4.9 percent in March,
while those in Shanghai slowed to a 1.3 percent gain.  The government said last week it doesn’t plan to ease
property curbs, ordering local governments to continue to
implement existing measures. The government raised the minimum
down payment for second-home purchases this year and introduced
residential taxes in  Shanghai  and Chongqing. Beijing and
Guangzhou also imposed restrictions on housing purchases.  “It means speculators are shifting from major cities to
shield from government curbs,” said Liu Li-Gang, a Hong Kong-
based economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in
a phone interview today. “The property measures are only
working in some cities but not nationwide. It’s raising new
challenges for the government.”  The measure tracking property stocks on the benchmark
Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.7 percent at the 3 p.m. local
time close. The gauge gained 9.6 percent this year compared with
a 2.3 percent advance in the benchmark.  Beijing, Shanghai  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said May 1 that the nation is
“determined” to bring down housing prices in some cities to a
“reasonable” level.  New  home prices  in Beijing rose 0.1 percent last month from
March, while Shanghai posted a 0.3 percent monthly gain.  Existing home prices in Beijing fell 0.7 percent last month
from a year earlier and were up 0.1 percent from March, while
those in Shanghai jumped 0.2 percent from a year ago and climbed
0.6 percent from the previous month.  Growth of real estate companies’ new bank accounts used for
settlements in so-called first-tier regions including Beijing
and Shanghai, and the provinces of Guangdong and Jiangsu, slowed,
suggesting the government’s property policies are starting to
take effect, the central bank said in a statement on its website
today.  “Home prices remained strong in smaller cities because
government policies are difficult to implement there,” said Yao
Wei, a Hong Kong-based economist with  Societe Generale  SA, in a
phone interview, before today’s release.  Sales Value  Nine cities had monthly declines compared with 12 in March,
while home prices in 32 cities rose more than 5 percent in April
from a year earlier, according to today’s numbers.  China’s home sales value fell 21 percent to 324.9 billion
yuan ($50 billion) in April from the previous month after the
government expanded the measures to tackle risks of asset
bubbles, the statistics bureau reported last week.  “With the sales volume shrinking, home prices will fall;
it’s just a matter of time,” said Johnson Hu, a Hong Kong-based
property analyst at CIMB-GK Securities Research Pte, who said he
expects big developers to cut prices first.  China Vanke Co., the nation’s largest publicly traded
developer, said on May 3 that contracted sales rose 1.3 percent
from a year ago to 7.9 billion yuan.  “The government’s measures have had a very clear impact on
the market,” Tan Huajie, Vanke’s board secretary, said in a May
3 statement.  Rising Rates  Raising  interest rates  may help the property measures take
effect nationwide, ANZ Bank’s Liu said. The central bank raised
rates twice this year and increased the amount banks need to set
aside as reserves five times.  China stopped releasing nationwide average property prices
and changed the methodology of the survey starting this year,
the statistics bureau said on Feb. 17, as the government is
facing pressure to rein in rising housing values.  “China’s property measures will remain tight this year
given Premier’s repeating pledges and a tightening monetary
policy environment we are in,” Societe Generale’s Yao said.  Private data has showed that the country’s housing market
remains robust. China’s home prices rose for an eighth month in
April,  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , China’s biggest real estate website,
reported on May 3.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Andreea Papuc,  Malcolm Scott   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  