-- 
China’s Stocks Rise to One-Week High; Banks, Consumer Staples Shares Gain

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-18T07:53:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/china-s-stocks-rise-to-one-week-high-banks-consumer-staples-shares-gain.html
China ’s stocks rose to the highest
level in a week, led by consumer staples producers and banks, on
speculation their earnings will be better sheltered from a
slowdown in the world’s second-biggest economy.  Kweichow Moutai Co., the nation’s biggest producer of
baijiu liquor by value, advanced to a five-month high after
Huatai United Securities Co. recommended food and beverage
companies. China Merchants Bank Co. rebounded after falling to a
two-month low this week. China Shenhua Energy Co. led gains for
coal producers after Citic Securities Co. said demand for the
fuel may exceed estimates this year.  “Consumer stocks are the best bets now amid the economic
slowdown and they will offer very stable earnings growth for a
long period of time,” said  Zhang Ling , general manager at
Shanghai River Fund Management Co. “With tightening measures
unlikely to be relaxed for now, the broader market is expected
to trade in a range.”  The Shanghai Composite Index gained 20 points, or 0.7
percent, to 2,872.77 at the 3 p.m. close, the highest since May
11. Companies trade on the gauge at 13.2 times estimated profit,
compared with a multiple of 19.9 over the past four years,
according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg. The  CSI 300
Index (SHSZ300)  rose 0.8 percent to 3,139.38.  The Shanghai Composite has slid 6 percent from a five-month
high on April 18 amid concern government measures to cool
inflation will slow corporate earnings growth. The central bank
has raised the reserve-requirement ratio for banks 11 times
since the start of 2010 and boosted  interest rates  four times.
The decline has pared this year’s gain to 2.3 percent.  Inflation Outlook  Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said China’s central bank was
focused on controlling prices, without mentioning threats to
growth, an indication that he has been more concerned about
inflation than any risk of a growth slowdown.  The central bank will “control the monetary conditions
behind excessively rapid gains in prices,” Zhou said in
comments dated April 18 and released yesterday in the central
bank’s annual report. The comments tally with a monetary policy
report released May 3 and were before data showing industrial
output growth weakened last month.  Home prices  rose in China’s 67 of 70 cities monitored by
the government in April from last year, led by smaller cities
that are defying efforts to control property prices nationwide.
Housing prices increased at a faster pace in smaller cities and
slowed in major ones, data posted on the statistics bureau’s
website today showed.  Consumer Stocks  A gauge of 19 consumer staples producers in the CSI 300
gained 1.6 percent, the most among 10 industry groups. Kweichow
Moutai jumped 3.9 percent to 194.95 yuan, the highest close
since Dec. 20. Wuliangye Yibin Co., China’s second-biggest maker
of white liquor by market value, advanced 2.4 percent to 33.84
yuan.  Food and beverage companies will have “solid” earnings
growth this year and are very good “defensive” stocks,
analysts led by Hong Ting at Huatai United Securities wrote in a
report dated yesterday.  Merchants Bank  rose 1.7 percent to 14.30 yuan. Huaxia Bank
Co., partly owned by Deutsche Bank AG, advanced 3 percent to
12.22 yuan. China Minsheng Banking Corp., the nation’s first
privately owned bank, climbed 2.7 percent to 6.02 yuan.  Inflation and interest rates will be “peaking soon” in
some emerging markets such as China and India which tightened
monetary policy early, according to  RBC Capital Markets .  “Inflation may be approaching a tentative peak in a number
of emerging-market economies,” RBC said in a note to clients.
This may allow central banks “room to pause, stop or scale down
their rate-hike plans in the second half of the year,” the note
said. RBC cited China,  India  and  Brazil  as nations that have
been “at the front end of the growth/inflation cycle in
emerging markets.”  Rising Coal Demand  Shenhua, the nation’s largest coal producer, rose 0.9
percent to 28.53 yuan. Yanzhou Coal Mining Co., the fourth
biggest, advanced 0.9 percent to 32.99 yuan.  Demand for thermal and coking coal may increase between 8
percent and 10 percent this year as less rainfall curbs supplies
of hydropower and boosts demand for coal-fired electricity, Luo Zeting, an analyst at Citic Securities, wrote in a report today.  Shanghai Zen Investment Management Co., a hedge fund that
beat 99 percent of its rivals this year by betting on
commodities, is cutting its allocation in raw materials by 30
percent and likely to buy China and U.S. stocks.  The Zen Macro Strategic Fund may purchase equities in  Asia 
including  Hong Kong  and India because falling commodity prices
will reduce inflationary pressure, Jacky Cheung, chairman of Zen
Investment, said in an interview at its offices in  Shanghai  on
May 16. China’s financial and power companies are attractive
because of valuations, he said, without naming any.  “With the decline in investors’ risk appetite, the
commodities market may not have hit bottom yet,” said Cheung,
41. “Equities will be very good investments in the second half
and next year.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  