-- 
China’s AIDS Fight Misses Drug Users, Sex Cases

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-05-18T22:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/china-s-aids-fight-misses-drug-users-sex-cases-study-finds.html
Drug users and those infected with
HIV through sex in  China  are more than twice as likely to die
than those who got the virus from a blood transfusion, according
to the nation’s first  report  on the death toll from AIDS.  Among those infected by blood transfusion, there were 6.7
deaths in every 100 people, compared with 15.9 deaths for
injecting drug users and 17.5 for those infected through sex,
researchers from the  Chinese Centre for Disease Control and
Prevention  wrote in the medical journal The Lancet today. Deaths
in China fell by almost two-thirds between 2002 and 2009 as the
number of patients receiving treatment jumped, they found.  China began offering free treatment for HIV patients in
2002 after thousands of people in  Henan province  were infected
through a government-run blood donation program. More than 80
percent of those patients now have access to treatment, the
study found, compared with 43 percent of injecting drug users,
and 62 percent of those infected sexually.  “Too many people are found too late,” said Ray Yip, a
Beijing-based director of the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation .
“One clear area that China can do better is to move to improve
their ability to test and diagnose people with HIV earlier, so
they can benefit from the treatment.”  About 740,000 people in China are estimated to have HIV, of
which 323,252 were officially reported as having the AIDS-
causing virus as of 2009, the study said. The world’s deadliest
pathogen killed 14.2 in every 100 infected people in China in
2009, compared with 39.3 in 2002, the researchers wrote. In the
same period, the number of people receiving treatment increased
from “almost zero” to 63.4 percent, they said.  Less Contagious  Drug users, prostitutes, gay and bisexual men, ethnic
minorities, migrants and the elderly were at the greatest risk
for missing out on treatment, the researchers wrote.  The drugs used to combat HIV reduce the virus to
undetectable levels in the blood, making carriers less
contagious and reducing their chances of transmitting it. Most
countries, including China, recommend deferring treatment until
a person’s CD4 cells -- the immune-system cells the virus
attacks -- fall below a certain level to avoid the side effects
and costs associated with the pills.  That may change after the results of a trial released May
13 showed that treating HIV patients as soon as they’re
diagnosed can reduce their chances of infecting others by 96
percent.  “Part of our program with the Chinese government is
working with them to recognize that if they treat HIV patients
early and more aggressively, they will actually save a lot more
money in the long run because those that they treat late may
have transmitted the disease to others already,” Yip said.  People living with HIV and AIDS in China are routinely
denied treatment in hospitals and face medical discrimination
because of fear and ignorance about the disease, the People’s
Daily reported today, citing a study by the  United Nations ’
International Labour Organization.  The study was funded by China’s  National Centre for
AIDS/STD Control and Prevention .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  