-- 
China Unlikely to Allow ’Jump’ in Yuan, Former Central Bank Adviser Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-18T13:00:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/china-unlikely-to-allow-jump-in-yuan-value-former-pboc-adviser-fan-says.html
China  is unlikely to allow a “jump”
in the value of the yuan because it needs to protect jobs, said
 Fan Gang , a former adviser to the country’s central bank.  There is also still “very strong” opposition in China for
even a small revaluation, he said at a forum in Beijing today.  “Big fluctuations in the exchange rate regime and big
volatility will really kill China’s industries,” said Fan, who
now heads the National Economic Research Institute of the China
Reform Foundation. “A gradual approach will give Chinese
companies some room, some time for adjustment.”  Policy makers in the world’s second-biggest economy agree
the yuan should rise although they are split over what pace of
gains would be optimal, Vice Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  said
last week in  Washington  during economic talks between Chinese
and U.S. officials. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said
May 10 the Chinese economy is strong enough to withstand the
pressures of appreciation.  People’s Bank of China officials have said a rising yuan
may help damp inflation while Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said
at the Washington talks that exchange-rate reform has been
“robust” from a trade perspective.  The central bank allowed the yuan to climb 0.9 percent
against the dollar last month, the fastest pace this year, to
help curb pressure on inflation from higher prices of imported
commodities. Consumer prices rose 5.3 percent in April from a
year earlier, exceeding the government’s 2011 target of 4
percent for the fourth month.  Excess Liquidity  The current bout of inflation is “not that serious,” Fan
told reporters at today’s forum. While the pace of price
increases may not have peaked, it will ease in the second half
of the year, he said.  China currently has “too much”  money supply  and excess
liquidity, he said.  The People’s Bank of China has since mid-October raised
interest rates four times and boosted banks’ reserve requirement
ratio eight times to a record 21 percent to rein in lending and
prevent inflows of capital from overseas flooding the financial
system.  The central bank may raise interest rates further, although
such a move would be difficult as the U.S. Federal Reserve and
the  European Central Bank  have moved “little,” Fan said today.  Capital Inflows  The ECB last month raised its benchmark refinancing rate
from a record low of 1 percent while the Fed has kept its
benchmark interest rate at a range of zero to 0.25 percent since
December 2008. China’s benchmark deposit rate is 3.25 percent
and its lending rate is 6.31 percent.  Interest rate differentials with other countries may
contribute to boosting capital inflows, China’s State
Administration of Foreign Exchange said last month.  Fan said that for China, the reserve requirement has turned
out to be a more effective tool to curb lending than raising
borrowing costs.  “Interest rate in lots of cases has not been effective,”
he told reporters. “For state companies, they don’t care very
much. For some developers, they don’t care very much. So I would
argue quantitative policy will still be the major policy.”  China’s measures to cool inflation and growth have avoided
a “hard landing” for the economy and asset bubbles have
stabilized, Fan said. They may re-emerge and could be “very
dangerous” if not well handled, he said.  Lower Target  China’s exchange rate is a “secondary issue” for the
country and the “real issue” that needs tackling is its
domestic imbalance reflected in a high savings rate and low
consumption, Fan said at the forum.  The government’s decision to lower its annual economic
growth target to 7 percent over the next five years shows the
focus of policy makers has shifted away from chasing growth, he
said.  China is likely to maintain a “high” growth rate over the
next 20 years, Fan said. The nation will face challenges
including low urbanization, a high savings rate, labor shortages
and income disparities, he said.  --Victoria Ruan. Editors: Nerys Avery, Sunil Jagtiani  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570 or
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  