-- 
Christie Disapproval Rating Rises as New Jersey Residents Get to Know Him

-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-05-18T20:51:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/christie-s-disapproval-rating-increases-to-49-in-new-jersey-survey-shows.html
Governor  Chris Christie  gained
detractors among  New Jersey  residents who previously were
undecided about the first-term Republican, a poll showed.  Christie scored a 49 percent disapproval rate in a Monmouth
University poll released today. The finding was 9 percentage
points higher than the figure in the most recent Monmouth poll,
in February. The governor’s approval rating was unchanged, at 47
percent.  Less than half of those surveyed, 46 percent, were familiar
with the town-hall meetings Christie has been holding to explain
his budget, his 2 percent property-tax cap and his attempt to
reduce pay and benefits for New Jersey’s unionized public
employees. The governor, 48, is scheduled to make his 17th-such
appearance of 2011 today in  Middlesex County .  “Efforts to sell his reform agenda at town-hall meetings
generate a lot of media attention, but it appears that New
Jerseyans who are paying the most attention to these events have
already made up their minds about the governor’s proposals,”
 Patrick Murray , director of the Monmouth University Polling
Institute, said in a statement.  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie, said the
administration typically doesn’t comment on poll results.  “They’re snapshots in time,” Drewniak said in a telephone
interview. “Polls move in both directions.”  Union Ads  On May 4 the  New Jersey Education Association , the union
representing 200,000 school employees and retirees, released a
television commercial criticizing Christie for giving “a  tax
cut  to millionaires -- a back-door deal to reward the people who
put him” in office.  The ad is part of the union’s campaign of billboard, radio
and television spots to counter the governor’s attempts to
change teacher tenure rules and cut pay and benefits. The union
last year spent $6.6 million on all advertising, the most of any
state lobbying group, according to the Election Law Enforcement
Commission in Trenton. The expenditure included the anti-
Christie messages.  Christie’s $29.4 billion New Jersey budget for fiscal 2012
was familiar to 86 percent of respondents, and 33 percent said
they had heard a lot about it. About one in four residents said
they were satisfied with the governor’s budget proposal.  Revenue Estimates  The poll was conducted prior to yesterday’s release of
revised tax-revenue projections, which some Democratic lawmakers
said should go toward a mandated surplus, restoring some school-
aid cuts or increasing property-tax rebates.  David Rosen , a
forecaster for the nonpartisan Office of Legislative Services,
estimated the extra revenue to be $914 million through June
2012. Treasurer Andrew P. Sidamon-Eristoff said his figure was
$511 million.  Approval ratings for the Assembly and Senate, the two
legislative houses controlled by Democrats, remained negative,
with 47 percent disapproving and 33 percent approving. Twenty
percent said they didn’t have an opinion.  The telephone poll of 807 adults was conducted May 12-16.
The margin of error was plus or minus 3.5 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in N.J. Statehouse at 
 Eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  