-- 
Citigroup’s Hedge-Fund Returns Jump as Volcker Rule Looms

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-05-18T13:45:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/citigroup-hedge-fund-returns-jump-as-ban-on-prop-trading-looms.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , which took a $45
billion U.S. bailout after losses on subprime home loans, is
boosting profits from a hedge fund that bets the bank’s money on
mortgage debt -- a practice regulators plan to restrict.  Citigroup’s Mortgage/Credit Opportunity Fund climbed 16
percent in the first four months of 2011, almost doubling its
pace last year, according to internal reports obtained by
Bloomberg News. About 90 percent of the $395 million invested in
the fund is the bank’s own capital, said a person with direct
knowledge of the matter.  The fund, run by Rajesh Kumar, 41, has posted profits every
year since it began in 2008, letting New York-based Citigroup
benefit from an asset class that almost caused its collapse. The
firm may seek new investors for the vehicle before regulators
implement the Volcker rule, which Congress passed last year to
force bank holding companies to cease bets with their own money.  “If the Volcker rule gets defined the way it was
originally intended to be defined, then they’re probably going
to need to divest their interest,” said Charles Whitehead, an
associate professor of law at Cornell Law School in New York.
“But why kill the goose before you have to?”  Citigroup, led by Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit ,
54, himself a former hedge-fund manager, invested the initial
$200 million when Kumar started the Mortgage/Credit fund. Kumar
had joined the bank in 2008 from New York-based Halcyon Asset
Management LLC, where he was a managing principal.  Profits Every Year  He oversees investments for the bank in commercial and
residential mortgage bonds, including those tied to subprime
loans. His team also bets company money on real estate
investment trusts,  government bonds  and derivatives, internal
reports show.  The fund returned 17 percent for the eight months of 2008
after its inception, 23 percent in 2009 and 26 percent last
year, according to the documents, which include estimates for
this year’s performance. Annualized, the 2011 return through
April was about 47 percent.  “We remain bullish on the growth prospects of the overall
 U.S. economy  and on the commercial real estate sector in
particular,” Kumar wrote in a March report. “Mortgage product
looks like a great relative value!”  Hedge funds  worldwide have gained 3.5 percent this year
through April, and those focused on fixed-income products rose
3.2 percent, according to May 11 estimates by researcher
HedgeFund.net. Last year, the HFRI Weighted Composite Index,
which tracks the performance of more than 2,000 hedge funds that
manage at least $50 million, climbed 10 percent.  Patel, Franklin  Kumar’s hedge fund is part of  Citi Capital Advisors , which
oversees about $16 billion in so-called alternative funds,
including private equity and venture capital funds, according to
a person familiar with the matter. The division, led by Jonathan Dorfman, 49, and James O’Brien, 51, manages about $5 billion of
Citigroup’s own money, said the person, who spoke on condition
of anonymity because the figures aren’t public.  The Mortgage/Credit fund is outpacing Citigroup investment
vehicles including the Event Driven Fund, managed by Mukesh Patel, a risk-arbitrage trader. That fund gained 7.1 percent
this year through April, according to estimates in the internal
reports. The  Emerging Markets Special Opportunities Fund ,
managed by  Mark Franklin , a former Salomon Smith Barney
emerging-markets executive, is up 4.2 percent, the records show.  Fund Declines  The Global Macro Fund, managed by Kevin Bespolka, dropped
6.9 percent this year through April, according to the estimates.
Managers of so-called macro funds seek to gain from global
trends, and Bespolka’s fund uses “nimble” strategies to bet on
government bond and currency markets, according to the bank’s
website. Macro funds have gained 2.8 percent this year through
April, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The documents don’t list any of the funds’ sizes or
indicate what share of their capital belongs to the bank. An
April 2010 marketing brochure for the Event Driven Fund said
that it “consists of only proprietary capital.”  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a bank spokeswoman, declined to
comment on the funds’ performance.  Citigroup slipped 30 cents to $41.24 at 9:40 a.m. in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock is down 13
percent this year, after surging 43 percent last year.  The bank posted losses totaling almost $30 billion for 2008
and 2009, much of it linked to subprime mortgages. It repaid the
taxpayer bailout last year, giving the Treasury Department a
profit of about $12 billion, including dividends and proceeds
from stock sales.  Kumar’s team separately managed two collateralized debt
obligations tied to subprime bonds which were liquidated in 2008
and 2009 and “have lost most of their economic value,”
according to the April 2010 brochure. CDOs package assets such
as mortgage bonds into new securities with varying risks.  Goldman,  Morgan Stanley (MS)   U.S. lawmakers passed the Volcker rule last year to curb
risk-taking by banks that get federal assistance, such as
 deposit insurance . Regulators are set to release a final
proposal in October for implementing the proprietary-trading
ban, which is named after former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker . The Fed said in February that banks would generally
have two years to comply once the rule takes effect.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is among firms that already have
wound down some proprietary funds in advance of the Volcker ban.
Morgan Stanley said in January it would turn one such unit into
an independent firm by the end of 2012, while retaining an
option to buy a preferred stake in the business. Both companies
are based in New York.  “Citi wants to leave all the long-shot bets on its
plate,” said Edward Kane, a finance professor at  Boston
College . “The riskier the investment, the more valuable it is
to the shareholders of Citigroup.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 