-- 
Cleveland Cavaliers Get First Pick in NBA Draft; Timberwolves, Jazz Follow

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-05-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/cleveland-cavaliers-get-first-pick-in-nba-draft-timberwolves-jazz-follow.html
The  Cleveland Cavaliers  got the top
pick in next month’s draft after posting the second-worst record
in the  National Basketball Association  in their first season
since  LeBron James  left.  The Minnesota Timberwolves, who were last in the regular-
season standings, will choose second in the first round,
followed by the  Utah Jazz .  The Cavaliers went 19-63 last season. A year earlier, they
topped the NBA with a 61-21 record in James’s last campaign
before he joined the  Miami Heat  as a free agent.  Cleveland  also
will have the fourth selection at the June 23 draft after
securing the Los Angeles Clippers’ lottery pick through a trade
that also sent Baron Davis to Cleveland.  “Shocking events took place last summer and it was a slow,
long, painful haul to get through it,” Cavs owner  Dan Gilbert 
said after the televised lottery. “Maybe this will be the final
straw in getting over the hump, getting to the other side, and
having a lot of hope for the future.”  The New York Knicks (42-40) will have the 17th pick in the
first round, while the New Jersey Nets (24-58), who gave up
their spot in the lottery to the Jazz, will choose 27th in place
of the Los Angeles Lakers.  The Timberwolves went 17-65 during the regular season,
giving them a 25 percent chance to earn the top pick. Minnesota
has never won the top selection in the 14 times it has
participated in the lottery.  The Jazz, who went 39-43 for the 10th-worst record in the
NBA this season, also get the 12th pick from the Nets following
a trade that sent guard Deron Williams to  New Jersey .  Top Prospects  Duke University point guard Kyrie Irving and University of
 Arizona  forward Derrick Williams are considered the top
prospects this year, according to scouts at  ESPN  and
 NBAdraftnet.com .  The 6-foot-2 Irving was limited to 11 games during his
freshman season at Duke because of a foot injury, averaging 17.5
points and 4.3 assists.  The 6-foot-8 Williams averaged 19.5 points and 8.3 rebounds
as a junior at Arizona this past season and was voted the
Pacific-10 conference’s player of the year.  “Williams is going to make a pretty big impact in the
NBA,” ESPN analyst Jay Bilas said. “It is going to be a
transition for him because he doesn’t really have an accepted
position -- he’s a tweener. But he plays above the rim, he can
knock down the standstill shot and he’s got that great
athleticism to be able to get around you.”  Turkish forward/center Enes Kanter, San Diego State forward
Kawhi Leonard, University of  Kentucky  guard Brandon Knight and
University of Connecticut guard Kemba Walker are among the other
top players available in the draft.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 