-- 
Commodities Advance as Drought, Reduced Inventories May Eat Into Supplies

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   K i m   K y o u n g w h a
-- 
2011-05-18T22:12:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/commodities-advance-on-outlook-for-stronger-demand-from-emerging-markets.html
Commodities gained the most in a week
as drought in  Europe  and the U.S., lower energy stockpiles and
crop delays in Brazil revived speculation that supplies of food
and raw materials will tighten.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials gained
2.7 percent to settle at 691.04 at 3:47 p.m. in  New York , the
biggest advance since May 9. Wheat led the rally, jumping 6.9
percent, while sugar surged 4.2 percent, crude oil climbed 3.3
percent and copper rose 3 percent.  Commodities are up for a third straight year since the
recession of 2008, fueled by demand in  China  and  India  and
disruptions of supply from mines to farms. France’s soft-wheat
harvest, the largest in the European Union, will decline 12
percent as drought hurts yields, farm adviser Agritel said
today. U.S. gasoline supplies fell last week, the  American
Petroleum Institute  said yesterday.  “Given the fundamentals in a lot of these markets, it’s
probably a good time to come in and buy,” said Keith Flury, an
analyst at Rabobank International in  London . “There are worries
that supply isn’t sufficient to meet demand.”  The GSCI index fell 11 percent in the first week of this
month, the most since December 2008, as speculators reduced
their positions in everything from copper to oil on mounting
concern that global growth is slowing. At least two dozen
nations and the  European Central Bank  raised rates this year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  JPMorgan Outlook  “In the short term, the macro landscape seems to have
taken a turn,” said Ray Eyles, the chief executive officer of
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s commodity business in  Asia . “Ultimately,
the long-term fundamental supply and demand of commodities is
still pointing to higher prices.”  Copper for delivery in three months rose $266 to $9,065 a
metric ton on the London Metal Exchange. Inventories of the
metal in warehouses monitored by the Comex in New York have
dropped for 13 days in a row, the longest streak since Dec. 20.  Crude oil gained $3.19 to $100.10 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Gasoline demand advanced 2 percent to the
highest level in a month, a report showed.  “Yesterday’s API numbers signal that things aren’t so bad
after all,” said Carl Larry, director of energy derivatives and
research at Blue Ocean Brokerage LLC in New York. “The demand
numbers were healthy.”  Gold for immediate delivery rose as much as 0.9 percent to
$1,499.95 an ounce, halting three days of declines, and settled
at $1,496.97. Silver futures for July delivery jumped 4.8
percent to $35.097 an ounce, the biggest gain since May 9.  Sugar Climbs  Raw sugar climbed 0.92 cent to close at 22.85 cents a pound
on ICE Futures U.S. in New York. Production in  Brazil ’s Center
South, the country’s main growing region, dropped 69 percent
from a year earlier at the beginning of the harvesting season,
industry association Unica said on May 12. Production fell due
to lower yields, harvest delays and a higher percentage of sugar
cane being directed to ethanol production.  Smaller-than-expected harvests may boost wheat prices that
already rose 75 percent in a year after crops were hurt in the
last growing season by floods in  Canada  and drought in  Russia .
This year, China is contending with drought while U.S. farmers
are facing dry weather in some areas and too much rain in
others. The U.S. Department of Agriculture is forecasting a
second consecutive annual decline in global stockpiles.  Corn futures for July delivery climbed 4.1 percent to
settle at $7.4975 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, after
rising by the 30-cent exchange limit, and wheat jumped 53 cents
to settle at $8.17 a bushel. Milling-wheat futures traded in
Paris jumped 4.6 percent to 240.5 euros ($342.69) a ton.  In the U.S., corn  planting  was 63 percent complete as of
May 15, behind the 75 percent average for that date in the past
five years, as soggy fields hindered fieldwork, mostly east of
the  Mississippi River  and in northern states, government data
show. Spring-wheat, soybean and rice sowing also were behind the
pace of recent years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;
Glenys Sim in Singapore at   gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  