-- 
Conconcreto Rises on Building Surge, Intercoastal Purchase

-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-05-18T20:36:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/conconcreto-rises-to-highest-in-four-months-on-building-surge.html
Conconcreto SA, a Colombian builder,
rose to its highest price in more than four months on a surge in
the nation’s construction licenses and after it agreed to buy a
part of Panama’s Intercoastal Marine Inc.  Colombia  granted licenses for 2.2 million square meters of
construction in March, a 79 percent increase from a year
earlier, the country’s statistics agency reported on its website
yesterday.  “The performance of license approvals reaffirms our
perception that during 2011, construction will surely be the
most dynamic sector after mining and oil,” Bogota-based
brokerage Correval SA said in an e-mailed report today.  Construction output will grow as much as 10 percent this
year as the government invests in reconstruction of housing and
infrastructure after a year of heavy rains, Daniel Velandia,
head of research for Correval, said in a phone interview.  The government might spend more than the $800 million it
had planned for reconstruction this year if tax collections and
campaign-season public spending rise, Velandia said.  Conconcreto rose 5.1 percent to 1,665 pesos at 4 p.m. New
York time, to its highest price since Jan. 4. The stock rose as
much as 5.4 percent earlier, the most since Dec. 23.  Rains since the second half of 2010 have caused damage to
the homes or property of 3.3 million people, and 450 have been
killed, according to government figures.  Intercoastal Acquisition  Conconcreto and Salfacorp SA,  Chile ’s largest engineering
and construction company, agreed to pay $32 million for 80
percent of Panamanian builder Intercoastal Marine Inc. The
acquisition will be done through a Colombian joint venture
between Salfacorp and Conconcreto, according to a filing posted
on the website of Chile’s securities regulator May 16.  “The market perceived the purchase with Salfacorp as a
positive,” Velandia said, adding that the acquisition has been
a factor in the company’s three-day gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David  Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  