-- 
Credit Agricole Plans to Boost Uridashi Bond Team on Investor Yield Hunt

-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 
2011-05-18T00:58:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/credit-agricole-plans-to-boost-uridashi-bond-team-on-yield-hunt.html
Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  plans to expand a
team that manages bond sales denominated in high-yielding
currencies designed to attract individual investors who control
Japan’s 820 trillion yen ($10 trillion) of household assets.  The corporate and investment banking unit of France’s
third-largest lender by market value plans to grow a Tokyo-based
team of six bankers after underwriting its first sale of so-
called Uridashi bonds, according to Benjamin Lamberg, global
head of MTNs and private placements, in a telephone interview
from  London . Notes are typically denominated in currencies such
as South Africa’s rand and the Australian dollar.  The strategy will “further strengthen our Uridashi
platform,” Lamberg said. The Paris-based bank will seek to use
its relationships with governments and supranational borrowers
that form the bulk of issuance in the market, he said. He
declined to elaborate further on hiring plans.  Japanese households controlled a record 820 trillion yen of
financial assets as of Dec. 31, according to  Bank of Japan  data
going back to 1997. The 7.6 percent coupon on Kommunalbanken
AS’s rand-denominated due May 2016 Uridashi notes sold last
month compares to a 0.52 percent coupon on Japanese  government
bonds  due April 2016 sold to individual investors, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  About 2 trillion yen of government bonds owned by
individual investors are expected to mature this year, including
1.2 trillion yen of 1.3 percent bonds due on July 15 and 812
billion yen of 1.13 percent notes due Oct. 15, the data show.  “ Credit Agricole  has been pricing swaps denominated in
exotic currencies for a very long time to our Japanese investor
base,” said Lamberg. “We have now beefed up our game.”  The bank, rated the fourth highest investment grade by
 Standard & Poor’s  at AA-, was ranked second last year in
underwriting medium-term notes denominated in yen excluding
structured notes, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Last month’s 160 million rand ($23 million) sale of due May
2016 notes for Kommunalbanken was the first Uridashi deal
managed by Credit Agricole, according to the French bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 