-- 
Cuba Deep Water Wells May Boost Oil Output Six-Fold, Pinon Says

-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-05-18T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/cuba-deep-water-wells-may-boost-oil-output-six-fold-pinon-says.html
Cuban deepwater exploration projects
that will begin this year have a high probability of success and
may increase the island nation’s oil output by more than 500
percent, said Jorge Pinon, energy fellow at the University of
Miami Center for Hemispheric Policy.  If successful, the new round of exploration may lead to
production of 200,000 to 300,000 barrels of oil a day, Pinon
said in an interview yesterday in  La Jolla ,  California . Cuba
imported 96,000 of oil a day in 2009 while it produced 47,500
barrels daily, according to a presentation from Pinon.  “The probability of success in finding hydrocarbons is
great,” said Pinon, a former head of BP Plc’s operations in
 Latin America  who recently visited Cuba. The communist nation
would own about 60 percent of crude produced from projects
resulting from the exploratory wells, he said.  The exploration projects will be the first conducted in
Cuba since 2004 and they may start as soon as September, when
the rig Scarabeo 9 is expected to arrive to the Caribbean
island. The first project will be headed by Madrid-based  Repsol
YPF SA (REP)  and  Statoil ASA (STL)  will also participate, Pinon said. The
deepwater Cuban blocks to be explored are located about 60 miles
south of Florida, he said.  The blocks are part of 22 concessions awarded by the Cuban
government to foreign  oil companies . In 2004, Repsol did not
find enough oil in a deepwater project to make it commercially
viable.  “The fact that five years after the 2004 non-successful
exploration, Repsol and Statoil continue there is telling us
there must be something there,” Pinon said. The next 18 months
will be “key” for the exploration projects, he said.  Oil & Natural Gas Corp.,  India ’s biggest energy explorer,
Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd., and Venezuela’s Petroleos de
Venezuela SA are other companies that are involved in the seven
upcoming exploratory projects.  Optimistic Scenario  Under an optimistic scenario, Cuba may produce enough oil
to meet its own consumption needs, Pinon said.  The U.S. trade embargo on Cuba is a key reason why offshore
drilling hasn’t developed in the communist island’s waters, the
Cuban government has said. The embargo caps the amount of U.S.
parts on any rig that may operate in Cuba at 10 percent.  The Scarabeo 9 platform being built by Italy’s  Saipem SpA (SPM) 
is the only rig that complies with the U.S. embargo limits,
Pinon said.  The  U.S. Geological Survey  estimates that Cuba’s North
Basin region holds 4.6 billion barrels of oil, according to a
2004 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  