-- 
Da Mata Plans Second Ethanol Plant in Brazil as Demand Surpasses Supply

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-05-18T15:16:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/da-mata-plans-second-ethanol-plant-in-brazil-as-demand-surpasses-supply.html
Da Mata SA - Acucar e Alcool , the
Brazilian sugar-cane processor, will build its second ethanol
plant, the first new manufacturing project announced in almost a
year in a country where demand is exceeding supply.  The Santa Marina plant in  Sao Paulo  state will initially be
able to produce about 100 million liters (26.4 million gallons)
of ethanol a year, according to Jorge Hatem, superintendent of
the company’s existing Usina da Mata mill.  Sugar-cane processors in Brazil have made few investments
in production capacity in the past two years, and Hatem said the
industry can’t meet demand for the renewable fuel. He expects
other companies to follow Da Mata’s lead.  “Today, there aren’t enough mills online to provide what’s
required by the domestic market,” he said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “I’ve no doubt that at the start of next
year we’ll see big companies investing here again, and they’ll
be welcome.”  Brazil  is expected to produce 25.5 billion liters of
ethanol in the current harvest season, which is “lower than the
expected growth in demand,” the Sao Paulo-based trade
association Uniao da Industria de Cana-de-Acucar  said  March 31.  Increasing Demand  Demand is increasing from Brazil’s growing fleet of flex-
fuel cars that can run on pure ethanol. The country is expected
to consume 52.4 billion liters of ethanol in 2019, up 81 percent
from 29 billion liters last year, according to the government’s
10-year  energy plan  published last year.  Part of the reason the industry can’t meet demand is that
sugar-cane companies have been investing in acquisitions instead
of infrastructure, according to Jose Carlos Grubisich, president
of the ethanol producer ETH Bioenergia SA  “Over the last two years the mood has been market
consolidation,” said Grubisich. Later this year, “companies
will start prioritizing expansions and new greenfield projects
once again.”  ETH Bioenergia plans to quadruple annual production to
handle 40 million tons within two years, by expanding operations
at three existing mills and bringing two new facilities online
in the second half of this year, the Sao Paulo-based company
said in an e-mail. The company acquired last year a majority
stake in Brenco, a Brazilian cane-mill developer backed by
foreign investors including the U.S.-based venture capital
executive Vinod Khosla.  Expanding Existing Mills  Jacyr Costa, chief executive officer of Guarani SA,
Brazil’s third-largest cane processor, said companies are more
likely to expand existing facilities for the next three years
because it “requires less investment” than building new ones.  Guarani plans to boost the amount of cane it processes by
16.7 percent in four years, according to regulatory filings, and
Brazil’s biggest ethanol producer  Cosan SA Industria e Comercio (CSAN3) 
expects to double its annual ethanol output to 5 billion liters
in five years.  Investments in Brazil’s biofuels industry peaked at $10
billion in 2008 before falling to $3.5 billion in 2009 and $3
billion in 2010, according to data compiled by New Energy
Finance. Most of the money that entered the industry last year
was spent on consolidation, as companies acquired existing mills
instead of expanding facilities or building new ones.  That was a shift from prior years. Between 2007 and 2008,
sugar-cane companies announced plans to build 48 ethanol plants,
according to New Energy Finance.  Single New Project  There’s been only one new project announced in the past
year, according to according to data compiled by the London-
based research company Bloomberg New Energy Finance. Via Vida
Biocombustiveis SA said in June it would  build a mill  in the
state of  Rio Grande  do Sul.  Jose Luiz Oliverio, vice president of technology and
development at Dedini SA Industrias de Base, the Brazilian maker
of ethanol manufacturing equipment, does not expect new
manufacturers to expand production significantly this year.  “Investors are currently asking for updates on quotes”
for equipment needed at projects they shelved in 2008, he said
in a telephone interview, “but probably won’t start putting in
orders” until the end of this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  