-- 
Defense Budget Review May Question Two-War Strategy, Secretary Gates Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-05-18T20:49:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/defense-budget-review-may-question-two-war-strategy-secretary-gates-says.html
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said
the Pentagon’s budget review will help the president and
Congress weigh the risks of cutting weapons programs and the
size of the armed forces.  Gates, in opening remarks to reporters at a Pentagon press
conference, said the review may include changing basic tenets of
Pentagon planning, including the core assumption that the
military must be prepared to fight two major regional wars
simultaneously, and maintain a “triad” of nuclear arms.  President  Barack Obama  in April announced a 12-year deficit
reduction plan, including a goal of holding growth in Pentagon
spending, not including Iraq and  Afghanistan , below inflation,
for an estimated $400 billion in savings. That’s on top of $78
billion the White House earlier directed be saved through 2016
for deficit reduction.  “I want this review to provide the substance for making
those kinds of conscientious decisions where the political
leadership of the country says we are prepared to accept this
risk in return for reduced investment in defense,” Gates said.  Gates today fleshed out how the Pentagon over the next few
months will draft the options for achieving the $400 billion
goal. The review will include looking for management
efficiencies, and a “serious examination” of policies that
“drive dramatic” increases in health care, compensation,
retirement and infrastructure.  The review will also craft options to reduce or “eliminate
marginal missions and capabilities” and specialized or costly
programs “that are useful in only a limited range of
circumstances,” Gates said without elaboration.  Hardest Category  These assessments will feed into the “hardest category” -
- a reexamination of the broad strategies guiding the U.S.
military “that translate into options for reductions in force
structure or capability needed to execute the strategy,” Gates
said.  “We can’t afford to have anything that’s off the table,”
he said, including the review of basic military strategy, the
nation’s nuclear triad of missiles, submarines and aircraft, and
the  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-35 fighter, the Pentagon’s largest
program.  “It has been our strategy for many years now to be able to
fight two major regional conflicts simultaneously” but “if you
were to tell yourself the likelihood of having two such fights
simultaneously is low and you can plan to fight sequentially,
that would have huge implications,” Gates said.  Then there is the risk “if you are wrong,” he said.  “That’s the kind strategy and risk we want to surface for
the president and Congress.”  Quadrennial Review  Gates said the assessment, which is intended to influence
the 2013 plan to be released in February, will use a starting
point the assumptions and scenarios contained in the February
2010  Quadrennial Defense Review .  The review will allow policy makers to see the impact of
changing QDR strategy on force structure, missions, and
capabilities, he said.  Gates said the F-35 program will be assessed as part of the
broader context.  “Obviously, if you’re going to change strategies or
missions, that has implications for the amount of equipment that
you buy and I would expect that to apply across the board, not
just to the F-35,” he said.  Gates reiterated his support for the F-35 program as well
as the new aerial refueling tanker to be made by  Boeing Co. (BA) , a
replacement for the nation’s ballistic submarines, and the need
to repair billions of dollars in worn out Army equipment and
vehicles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  