-- 
Delta Air’s New York LaGuardia Swap Makes American ‘Vulnerable’

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-05-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/delta-air-s-new-york-laguardia-swap-makes-american-vulnerable-.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  is poised to
take over about half of the flight slots at New York’s LaGuardia
airport, widening its advantage over  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American
Airlines  in the world’s busiest aviation market.  Delta may double its daily LaGuardia departures under a
trade giving it most of the slots held by  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) ,
which has said a final agreement may come within weeks. The move
would help Delta win more full-fare corporate passengers, for
whom frequent flights are important.  “For the first time in perhaps its 80-year history,
American is facing a truly serious contender for the business
traveler at LaGuardia,” said  Henry Harteveldt , a  Forrester
Research Inc. (FORR)  analyst in  San Francisco . “American Airlines is
vulnerable.”  More New York growth would amplify Atlanta-based Delta’s
gains from the 2008 purchase of Northwest Airlines, which helped
push its share of LaGuardia passengers to 29 percent at the end
of 2010, from 22 percent five years earlier. American slid to 21
percent from 24 percent in the same period.  Airlines prize corporate fliers because they typically buy
last-minute tickets at the highest prices. A first-class, round-
trip flight today from New York to Chicago is $668, according to
Delta’s website, more than twice the price of a discounted coach
seat next month.  American is trying to counter Delta with $30 million in New
York terminal upgrades, mostly at LaGuardia. That compares with
the $1.3 billion spent on the new American terminal that opened
in 2007 at John F. Kennedy airport for international flights and
the $1.2 billion project under way there for Delta.  ‘Win  New York ’  “The charge to me was, ‘You win New York,’” said Art Torno, who was named American’s vice president for New York last
year. “That means win a disproportionate share of high-value,
premium customers. I believe we’ll win New York.”  The region lacks a dominant carrier, with traffic spread
among LaGuardia, Kennedy and  New Jersey ’s Newark. United and
Continental airlines, which merged in October, led the area with
27 percent of passengers in 2010, according to the  Port
Authority of New York and New Jersey . Delta had 20 percent, and
Fort Worth, Texas-based American had 13 percent.  Delta has ramped up daily departures from the New York area
by 55 percent since 2005, while American’s departures are down
7.3 percent.  Regulators Balk  The LaGuardia push began evolving in August 2009, when
Delta proposed ceding slots at  Washington ’s Reagan National to
 US Airways  in exchange for more New York flight rights from the
Tempe, Arizona-based carrier. U.S. regulators balked, forcing
new talks among the airlines and federal officials.  US Airways President Scott Kirby told employees this month
an accord may be close. Delta declined to comment on the timing
of any deal, said Joseph R. Perone, a spokesman.  “We’re confident our position will continue to
strengthen,” Perone said.  Completing the slot exchange as originally proposed would
as much as double Delta’s share of LaGuardia departures to 51
percent, counting regional partners, and push its portion of
flight slots to 49 percent, according to a U.S. Transportation
Department assessment in May 2010.  “ Nobody has had that at LaGuardia in years,” said Daniel Petree, dean of Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University’s College
of Business in  Daytona Beach ,  Florida .  Delta’s original proposal envisioned spending $40 million
to link its current terminal to one now housing US Airways,
gaining as many as 11 gates.  ‘Fill Them Up’  A successful swap won’t necessarily give Delta an
insurmountable advantage, said Jay Sorensen, a former Midwest
Airlines executive who now runs consultant IdeaWorks in
Shorewood,  Wisconsin . Flight limits at LaGuardia ensure that
supply always trails demand, helping all its carriers, he said.  “I don’t know that anyone can really hurt someone else at
LaGuardia,” Sorensen said. “Whoever operates flights at
LaGuardia will fill them up handily and at a better-than-average
price.”  Delta shareholders have suffered less than AMR investors,
with the stock sliding 46 percent through yesterday from its
bankruptcy exit on April 30, 2007. AMR fell 74 percent in that
period, the most among the six biggest U.S. airlines. It is the
only large carrier projected by analysts to post a 2011 loss.  American identified New York as one of its most important
U.S. markets in 2009, along with  Chicago , Dallas-Fort Worth,
Miami and  Los Angeles , for its effort to attract premium
passengers.  “Competition for American became pretty significant, and
the folks in Dallas took a long time to really react,” said
Sunil Mahtani, executive vice president at  Ovation Corporate
Travel  in New York. “Now that they see they’ve lost ground and
that they no longer are the 800-pound gorilla in this market,
they are looking to make big strides in winning New York back.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Dallas at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  