-- 
Detroit Mayor Bing Uses NBA Drive to Fight Withering of City

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 
2011-05-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/detroit-mayor-bing-uses-nba-drive-to-fight-withering-of-city.html
Eleven stories above the city that
shrinks beneath him,  Detroit  Mayor Dave Bing chops at the
conference table with his right hand, extending his fingers to
emphasize his point that Detroit can be saved, if only people
would listen to him.  “People don’t like to hear the truth if it’s not what they
want to hear,” Bing said in an interview this month, sounding
like the auto-parts company CEO he once was. “They’re not
receptive to change.”  More than four decades have passed since Bing, 67, a Hall
of Fame guard with the  National Basketball Association ’s  Detroit
Pistons , heard the cheers of adoring fans. At 6-foot-3 and 200
pounds -- just 10 above his playing weight -- he still looks as
though he could sink a jump shot. Now, Bing performs in a new
game, trying to force ledger-book discipline on a city in danger
of being taken over by the state of Michigan.  Bing shuns the politician’s inclination to please and
instead preaches a vinegar gospel of economy, efficiency and
sustainability. In his first elective office, he practices the
political math of subtraction.  “If we don’t do the things that need to be done, the state
will take over. I mean, that’s a fact,” Bing said, thumping the
table. “If you don’t believe it, here are the consequences.
It’s pretty simple for me.”  ‘The Ruins’  Industrial cities built on the fortunes of steel and
automobiles have seen their economies struggle as plants closed
and imports eroded domestic production. Detroit, once dotted
with plants belonging to  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  General Motors Co. (GM) ,
Chrysler Group LLC and their suppliers, is now marked by what
Bing calls “the ruins” of industrial demise -- abandoned
neighborhoods, empty factories, and boarded-up businesses.  What was the nation’s fifth-largest city when Bing was
playing with the Pistons in the 1960s and 1970s has fallen to
18th. Almost a quarter million people left in the past decade,
dropping the population to 713,777, behind  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina ;  Fort Worth ,  Texas ; and Columbus,  Ohio .  About 100,000 dwellings are vacant, according to the
Citizens Research Council of Michigan. The median home sale
price in March was $8,505. And that’s up from March 2010, when
it was $7,725, according to Realcomp II Ltd., a multiple-listing
service in suburban Farmington Hills.  Going Into Deficit  While the Big Three automakers are poised to return to the
employment levels of 2008, Detroit, which had a population of
nearly 2 million in 1950, is headed to a budget deficit of $1.5
billion by 2016, Bing said.  A state takeover is no idle threat.  Michigan ’s new
governor, Republican Rick Snyder, pushed a bill through the
Legislature in March giving the state powers to oversee the
financial operations of cities, including the cancellation of
union contracts. Michigan appointed an emergency financial
manager to run Detroit public schools in 2009.  The city’s bonds are below investment grade, rated Ba3 by
Moody’s Investors Service, the third-highest junk rating; BB by
 Standard & Poor’s , the second-highest; and BB+ by Fitch, the
highest noninvestment-grade rating.  A November report from S&P said that police, fire, debt and
pension and benefit obligations account for about 63 percent of
expenditures and that “a severe loss of revenues without
spending adjustments could pressure Detroit’s ability to make
debt service payments.”  Warding Off Michigan  Bing’s formula to fend off the state: cut spending, turn
over some services to private operators and squeeze living space
from 139 square miles to 70. Detroit’s population is spread
across an expanse the size of  San Francisco , Boston and Buffalo
combined. Bing wants to lure people from shrinking neighborhoods
to more populous areas, offering better services as an
incentive.  Among many residents on the east side, where the population
in some neighborhoods fell by more than 50 percent in the past
decade, the idea of relocation is anathema.  “People should live where they want to live,” said
Charles Williams, a caterer who was barbecuing ribs and hotdogs
along East Warren Avenue. “Nobody took him from his house and
put him someplace else.”  Left unanswered is what would happen to the 70 square miles
once it is cleared out. While there’s been talk of  urban farming 
on the east side, Bing said he is not convinced the idea can pay
off economically.  Rats Take Over  “I don’t see him doing a damn thing,” said Michelle
Allen, sitting on the front porch of her east-side home, eating
oxtail soup and staring at a battered garage across the street.
Allen sees drug deals all around and rats “run amok.”  “And he’s talking about moving people? What did he do? He
played basketball,” said Allen, 51.  Basketball paved the way for Bing to escape the poverty of
 Washington . The son of a bricklayer and a domestic worker, Bing
became a basketball star at  Syracuse University  and was a first-
round draft choice of the Pistons in 1966.  He played guard for the team for nine years and retired in
1978, finishing his career with the  Boston  Celtics.  After retiring from basketball, he became a bank teller,
working three branches in Detroit. Using his connections with
then-Pistons owner Bill Davidson, Bing got into the steel
stamping business, eventually running The Bing Group, a
privately held collection of small manufacturers and suppliers
that made steel for the  auto industry . Bing sold the company in
2010.  Stepping In  Running for mayor “never crossed my mind,” Bing said,
until 2008, when then-mayor Kwame Kilpatrick resigned before
being pleading guilty to corruption charges. He said he thought
he had the skills “to make a difference.”  Bing won the race in May 2009 to complete the final months
of Kilpatrick’s term in office and was re-elected for a four-
year term the following November.  This is not a job that pays long-term dividends. Kilpatrick
is in prison. The last businessman to run Detroit, Albert Cobo,
in the 1950s, died in office.  “In his defense, he’s taken on probably the hardest job in
America,” said Maggie DeSantis, president of the Warren/Conner
Development Corp., an east-side neighborhood group. “There’s no
precedent for a city this large emptying out so quickly.”  On a Journey  “But I’m not convinced that business skills are the right
match for running a city the shape Detroit is in. What is needed
is consensus-building skills, leadership skills,” she said.  While  past mayors  have talked of returning Detroit to
industrial glory, Bing is measured in his assessment. A
television ad for Chrysler aired during the  Super Bowl  described
Detroit as a “town that’s been to hell and back.”  “I don’t think it’s back,” said Bing. “We’re on our way
back.”  Bing has given the city’s 48 public employee unions until
Sept. 1 to agree to pension and health-care concessions that
would save the city an estimated $120 million annually. If they
don’t agree, Bing said, the state will appoint an emergency
manager.  That is the consistent message from Bing, who is at work by
7 a.m. and rarely home before 9 p.m., he says. He hasn’t played
basketball in 25 years and said he doesn’t miss the cheers.  “This administration has the responsibility and the
backbone to tell people the truth because I’m not worried about
getting re-elected,” Bing said, gesturing between the
memorabilia from another life and time -- a framed Detroit
Pistons jersey and the ball he shot to score his  18,000th point .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  