-- 
Ex-Diamondback Capital Manager Guilty in Galleon-Linked Case

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-05-19T19:58:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/diamondback-capital-s-scolaro-pleaded-guilty-in-2010-unsealed-papers-show.html
A former Diamondback Capital
Management LLC portfolio manager, Anthony Scolaro, pleaded
guilty to insider-trading charges in November, according to a
plea agreement unsealed yesterday in  Manhattan  federal court.  The charges against Scolaro make public for the first time
the connection between the federal insider-trading probe of
Galleon Group LLC and a series of raids by the U.S. Federal
Bureau of Investigation of hedge funds in November.  The searches were carried out as part of an insider-trading
investigation of hedge fund and expert networking firms.  “In October of 2007, as a portfolio manager at Diamondback
Capital Management, in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , I received a phone
call from Franz Tudor, who then worked at Schottenfeld
Securities, and he told me that he had learned that Axcan
Pharmaceuticals was going to be acquired by TBG Capital,”
Scolaro said in a hearing before U.S. District Judge William Pauley on Dec. 10, according to a transcript of the hearing made
public today. “In subsequent conversations, he told me that the
source of the information was a lawyer who was working on the
deal.”  Scolaro admitted to conspiring with Tudor from October 2007
to sometime in 2008. Tudor, who had worked at Galleon, pleaded
guilty to  securities fraud  in October 2009 and agreed to
cooperate with prosecutors. The Axcan acquisition was announced
on Nov. 29, 2007, according to the criminal charges.  Incriminating Statements  According to the hearing transcript, Scolaro’s lawyer told
Pauley that his client was captured on government recordings of
phone conversations making incriminating statements.  Scolaro’s lawyer,  William Brodsky , didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment.  Steve Bruce , a spokesman for Stamford, Connecticut-based
Diamondback, declined to comment. Roger Jassie, chief compliance
officer at Schottenfeld, didn’t return a voice-mail message
seeking comment.  The plea agreement, dated Nov. 12, requires Scolaro to
cooperate with the government’s investigation and to testify as
a prosecution witness at any trial in the matter.  On Nov. 22, FBI agents from New York and  Boston  executed
search warrants at the offices of Level Global Investors LP as
well as Diamondback, firms founded by alumni of SAC Capital
Advisors LP. Agents that day also searched the offices of Loch
Capital Management in Boston.  Raj Rajaratnam, co-founder of Galleon, was convicted by a
federal jury May 11 of all 14 conspiracy and securities fraud
counts against him.  Zvi Goffer, a Rajaratnam deputy who had worked for
Schottenfeld and founded his own firm, went on trial this week,
along with his brother, Emanuel Goffer, and Michael Kimelman.
They are charged with securities fraud and conspiracy in a case
that prosecutors have tied to Galleon.  The case is U.S. v. Scolaro, 11-cr-429, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in Manhattan at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in U.S. District Court in Manhattan at
   pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  