-- 
Tourists Splurge at Mall of America as Dollar Drop Boosts Buying

-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-05-18T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/dollar-drop-boosts-tourist-spending-in-u-s-.html
The price is right for foreign
shoppers in the U.S. as the sagging dollar boosts their
purchasing power on everything from jewelry to vitamins.  “When I come to  New York , it feels like I am getting great
deals,” said Molly Lewis, a 40-year-old nurse from Manchester,
 England , who spent an afternoon last week hunting down bargains
on Louis Vuitton handbags in  Manhattan . “Things are much
cheaper here than back home.”  The British pound had climbed 13 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  in the past year, along with gains in the euro and
Canadian and Australian dollars. That’s given travelers a zest
for spending, which may help U.S. retailers make up sales as
budget-wary U.S. consumers stick to the sidelines. Travelers
from abroad spent $8.9 billion on food, lodging, gifts and
entertainment in the U.S. in February, up 7 percent from last
year, according to the  Department of Commerce .  The Mall of America, the biggest shopping center in the
U.S. with 520 stores, is reporting a surge in international
visitors, hitting retailers from  Columbia Sportswear Co. (COLM)  to
Coach Inc. in search of American goods.  The dollar has weakened by about 4 percent this year,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indices.
The measure of 10 developed-nation currencies has fallen 15
percent in the past year amid concern the  Federal Reserve ’s
accommodative monetary policy will debase the value of the
dollar and spur inflation.  Visitor Surge  International visitors to the  Mall of America  jumped 10
percent in 2010 and climbed through the first four months of the
year, said Doug Killian, the director of tourism at the
Minnesota shopping complex. Those visitors spend about 2.5 times
more than people from the U.S., he said.  The Mall of America aims to take advantage of that by
increasing its international marketing budget 20 percent this
year. Non-U.S. visitors who book with certain tour groups also
get free coupon books that normally cost $10 apiece.  Upscale retailers also have followed suit. Macy’s Inc.’s
Bloomingdale’s chain offers a 10 percent discount for foreign
shoppers with photo identification, spokeswoman Marissa
Vitagliano said. Chains like Bloomingdale’s and  Saks Inc. (SKS)  helped
make New York a top shopping destination last year, followed by
 Los Angeles  and  Las Vegas , said Rosemary McCormick, president of
Shop America Alliance, a travel trade organization.  Already Shopping  “I’ve been in New York for less than two hours, and I am
already shopping,” Daniel Kremerh, a 33-year-old from Berlin,
said during a trip to Bloomingdale’s. “I can afford the real
name-brand stuff here, where in Berlin, I get knockoffs.”  The dollar’s sluggishness may last through the year because
of slowing U.S. growth and the widening interest-rate gap
between the country and the rest of the world, according to
strategists at Barclays Plc and Morgan Stanley. Economic growth
slackened more than anticipated last quarter, prompting the
Federal Reserve to say record-low rates are needed to foster
growth.  Typically, Shop America Alliance’s McCormick said,
international visitors are spending about one-third of their
outlay on shopping. They also have to eat: International
customers at restaurants owned by Alicart Restaurant Group in
New York grew by about 65 percent in the first quarter, with an
“explosion” of after-theater diners at its Virgil’s Real BBQ,
said Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Bank.  Many remain focused on deals. Young Choi scoured  San
Francisco  for goods from  Nike Inc. (NKE) , J. Crew Group Inc. and Coach
on a family visit last week. The 63-year-old retired teacher
expected her load to be a little heavier on the way back to
 Seoul .  “Basically she’s going to buy a really big large suitcase,
so she can put all her stuff in and bring it home,” said her
son, Yong Park.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  