-- 
Drug Spending Growth Drops as Brands Are Replaced by Generics

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-05-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/drug-spending-growth-drops-as-brands-are-replaced-by-generics.html
The annual growth rate in spending on
drugs may be cut in half over the next five years as people opt
for less expensive generic medicines over brand-name treatments,
a health-care research group said today.  While global expenditures for medicines will still reach
almost $1.1 trillion by 2015, the annual compounded growth rate
may be reduced to 3 to 6 percent through 2015, compared with 6.2
percent over the last five years, according to the  IMS Institute
for Healthcare Informatics  in Parsippany,  New Jersey . Still,
emerging markets will double their purchases to as much as $315
billion, the institute said in a report.  Expiring patents on branded medicines will yield $98
billion in net savings to government health plans and commercial
insurers during the next five years, with the U.S. providing the
biggest increase in spending for generic alternatives, the
institute said. Market share for branded drugs will drop to 53
percent from 64 percent last year, according to the report.  “This patent dividend may actually be coming as a surprise
to payers and not yet fully worked into their own estimates,”
 Murray Aiken , the institute’s executive director, said in a
conference call yesterday. “It’s a reasonably significant
slowdown.”  The 2008 global financial recession and recent government
actions to control drug prices in nations such as China, Italy
and  Japan  also are reasons for the slowing growth rate, Aiken
said. Rebates and discounts offered by drugmakers aren’t
reflected in IMS audits and may add as much as $75 billion by
2015, the report said.  Productivity Focus  While the pharmaceutical industry’s research and
development spending has increased, “everyone is focused on
trying to raise the productivity of the R&D investment and that
continues to be a struggle,” Aiken said.  Last year, U.S. regulators approved 21 medicines for sale,
the fewest since 2007.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , Merck & Co.,  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) 
and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. all failed in 2010 to gain approval
for new drugs.  Already this year, New York-based Bristol-Myers won U.S.
marketing approval for its skin cancer treatment Yervoy,
Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based Merck gained approval for
the first hepatitis C medication, Victrelis, in more than a
decade and Indianapolis-based Lilly was cleared with German
drugmaker Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH to sell the drug linagliptin
to help improve blood sugar control in people with  Type 2
diabetes .  “This comes back to ‘innovation wins out’ and if you have
the innovative products, the global market is only getting
larger,” Aiken said. “If not, you’re competing against an
ever-more aggressive set of generic producers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pat Wechsler in  New York  at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net 
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 