-- 
Dubai Shares Rise to Week High as Oil, Global Stocks Rebound; Emaar Gains

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-05-18T13:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/dubai-shares-rise-a-second-day-as-oil-global-stocks-rebound-emaar-gains.html
Dubai shares rose to the highest in
almost a week, led by developer  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , as  oil
prices  jumped and stocks rebounded globally.  Emaar, builder of the world’s tallest skyscraper, increased
a second day. Air Arabia, the Middle East’s biggest low-cost
airline, jumped 1.4 percent. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  advanced 0.7
percent to 1,589.73 at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai, the highest
since May 12. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  rose 0.3 percent and
the MSCI Emerging Markets Index jumped 0.8 percent.  “There seems to be a higher correlation between the Dubai
Financial Market and global markets lately,” said Ahmed Talhaoui, the Abu Dhabi-based head of investment at Royal
Capital. The increased correlation has been driven by growing
concern about complications of the European crisis,  U.S. debt 
reaching its ceiling and the sell-off in commodities, he said.  European and Asian shares climbed for the first time in
five days. Crude for June delivery gained for the first time in
three days, advancing as much as 2 percent to $98.80 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The six
nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council, including the U.A.E.
and Qatar, supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  ‘Magical Thinking’  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said that  Greece  must step up its economic-policy
overhaul, including the sale of state-owned companies, before
the EU offers any further financial aid to the country.
Yesterday, U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said
budget deficits threaten to erode the nation’s economy and
security and can’t be reduced with “magical thinking.”  Emaar gained 1.3 percent to 3.20 dirhams, the highest close
since May 12.  Air Arabia (AIRARABI)  jumped the most since April 20 to 73.4
fils.  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  advanced 0.3 percent and
Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  increased 0.5 percent.
Kuwait’s measure slipped less than 0.1 percent and Oman’s gauge
slid 1.4 percent, its ninth day of losses. Qatar’s QE Index
dropped 0.1 percent and Bahrain’s BB All Share Index decreased
0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  