-- 
Dubai Developer Damac Sues Egypt for Seizing Land, Sentencing Chairman

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 
2011-05-18T10:30:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/dubai-s-damac-sues-egypt-for-seizing-red-sea-land-sentencing-chairman.html
Damac Properties Co., a Dubai-based
private developer, filed an arbitration lawsuit in Washington
against Egypt after the government seized land purchased in 2006
and sentenced its chairman to five years of hard labor.  Damac is contending that it followed regulations that were
valid at the time of the purchase under the government of ousted
President  Hosni Mubarak , according to Ken Fleuriet, a lawyer
from King & Spalding LLP, who is representing Damac and Chairman
Hussain Sajwani. The $1 per square meter the company paid was
the “going rate,” he said.  “Any international investor going to a country to invest
relies on the regulatory framework,” Niall Mc Loughlin, Damac’s
senior vice president, said in a May 17 interview in  London .
“What cannot and should not happen is the next government
challenges the processes of the previous government after the
fact and sweeps up investors who did deals.”  The court stripped the developer of 30 million square-
meters (322.9 million square-feet) of land on the Red Sea coast
and fined Sajwani and former Tourism Minister Zoheir Garranah,
according to a copy of the May 10 judgment.  Developers with projects in Egypt are facing legal
challenges to land purchases made under Mubarak, who was ousted
in February after 30 years in power. On May 24, an appeals court
is set review a ruling reversing a 33 million square-meter
purchase of land on the outskirts of Cairo by  Talaat Moustafa
Group (TMGH)  Holding, the country’s biggest developer.  Luxury Homes  Tourism Minister Garranah agreed to sell the land on Gamsha
Bay near Hurghada for $30 million, Fleuriet said. Damac planned
to build 50,000 luxury homes on the land as well as marinas,
hotels, a golf course, a shopping center, offices and an extreme
sports adventure theme park, according to the company’s website.  Garranah is facing charges of profiteering and enabling the
theft of public funds for selling land in Hurghada at below-
market prices to businessmen Sajwani and Hesham el-Hatheq,
state-run Middle East News Agency said on March 26. Popular
protest forced Mubarak to step down and led to the arrest of
several ministers and businessmen on corruption charges. Mubarak
and his two sons are currently in jail.  The Cairo court ruled that the former tourism minister
didn’t form a committee to evaluate the price of the land and
sold it at $1 a square meter even though the tourism authority
valued it at $3 a square meter, according to a copy of the
judgment.  The ruling is the result of “a public outcry in  Egypt  to
bring to trial former Mubarak ministers,” Fleuriet said.
“There was never any detailed explanation of the charges, it
was just this general ‘you did business with the former
regime.’”  No Auction  The land was bought through a direct allocation rather than
a public auction. Damac has four developments in Cairo, which
were purchased through a mix of public auctions and private
sales. The company has not received a copy of the charges
brought against it and has relied on reports in the Egyptian
press for information, Fleuriet said.  Damac is seeking damages for harm to its reputation,
goodwill and loss of projects. It will continue to operate in
Egypt and continue construction at sites there, excluding Gamsha
Bay.  Mc Loughlin declined to specify the damages sought. Damac
lodged the lawsuit at the  International Centre for Settlement Of
Investment Disputes , in  Washington  on May 13, Fleuriet said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 