-- 
ECB’s Constancio Says Greek Debt Restructuring Would Be ‘Dire’

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-05-18T13:00:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/ecb-s-constancio-says-greek-debt-restructuring-would-be-dire-.html
European Central Bank Vice President
 Vitor Constancio  said the consequences of a possible Greek debt
restructuring would be “dire,” heightening ECB warnings over
such a step.  “You just have to look to all the historical examples of
countries that have had to, in the end as a last resort,
restructure their debt,” Constancio told reporters today in
Brussels. “The consequences were dire in terms of further
downgrades of the whole debt of the country, in terms of
difficulties of the banking sector to finance itself and to
finance the economy.”  ECB officials are seeking to counter signals by European
Union politicians that a Greek debt restructuring is a
possibility as the EU considers further financial assistance to
the country. Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said
this week that a “soft restructuring,” which would include a
voluntary extension of the maturities of bonds held by private
investors, is an option after the Greek government takes extra
steps to narrow the  budget deficit .  “Deep recessions followed” previous restructurings by
other countries, Constancio said. “Contagion effects also,
which would be even more important in the case of  Europe  in view
of the fact that we are in a monetary union with very much
intertwined financial sectors.”  The best approach for Greece is to step up its economic-
adjustment program begun last year, according to Constancio.  New Measures  “We should stick with the program as long as it is
working,” Constancio said. “Right now it needs new measures
from the part of the Greek government because that’s the best
approach.”  In that context, he urged private investors to maintain
their holdings of Greek debt a year after  Greece  received 110
billion euros ($156 billion) in emergency aid from euro-area
governments and the  International Monetary Fund .  “Initially, when the problems started with Greece,
financial institutions promised to keep their exposures,”
Constancio said. “That’s something that could be helpful and
relevant in the present situation. Any other path can lead to
more negative consequences.”  The key is for Greece to take measures that ensure debt
sustainability, Constancio said. A Greek restructuring would set
a post-World War II precedent, he said.  “These cases have been mostly in emerging economies,”
Constancio said. “There has not been any sort of restructuring
in advanced economies since at least World War II and the
consequences in an advanced economy can be even more negative
than in other cases.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at at
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  