-- 
Medvedev Rebukes BP, Rosneft Dealmakers on Shareholder Rights

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-05-18T15:05:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/medvedev-says-bp-rosneft-should-have-done-more-due-diligence.html
The dealmakers behind  BP Plc (BP/)  and
state-run OAO Rosneft failed to pay sufficient attention to
shareholder rights while seeking to form an alliance that
collapsed yesterday, Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  said.  “Those who prepared the deal should have paid more
attention to the nuances of the shareholder agreement” between
BP and AAR, Medvedev told reporters near Moscow today, in
response to a question about mistakes made by Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin ’s government. “They should have had better due
diligence inside the government.”  Igor Sechin , Putin’s deputy in charge of energy, was
chairman of Rosneft as the deal was being prepared and flew to
London on Jan. 14 for the signing. He stepped down from his post
at Rosneft last month after Medvedev told eight senior officials
to quit the boards of state-owned companies in industries they
oversee.  BP and Rosneft’s planned swap of $7.8 billion stakes and an
Arctic exploration project fell apart after a legal challenge
from AAR, which represents the U.K. company’s billionaire
partners in TNK-BP,  Russia ’s third-largest oil producer. The
deal would have been the first of its kind between an
international  oil company  and a state producer.  Sechin’s support couldn’t save the alliance after the AAR
billionaires blocked the deal in court, arguing their
shareholder agreement gave TNK-BP sole rights to pursue
opportunities in Russia for BP.  Miscalculated Strength  “The biggest failure was to miscalculate AAR’s relative
strength against the government,” Ivan Mazalov, director of
Prosperity Capital Management, said May 16, the last day of BP
and Rosneft’s agreement. “The government doesn’t have the power
to push AAR into this deal.”  Rosneft let the deal lapse, following a one-month
extension, after BP and AAR put forward new proposals that fell
outside the framework of the initial alliance, the state-run
company said today in a statement. BP said the companies have
been in contact.  To salvage the deal BP and Rosneft agreed on an offer worth
about $32 billion to buy out AAR’s half of TNK-BP, said two
people familiar with the plan. Half of TNK-BP was valued at $22
billion at the close of trading on May 16.  An arbitration panel ruled on May 6 that BP could swap 5
percent of its stock for about 9.5 percent of Rosneft, as long
as the Russian company agreed to bring TNK-BP in its partner in
the Kara Sea exploration project. Rosneft had said it didn’t
want TNK-BP, which has no Arctic offshore experience.  ‘Completely Unaware’  Putin pledged the government wouldn’t get involved in the
dispute between BP and AAR, distancing himself from the Rosneft
deal that he had blessed during talks with BP Chief Executive
Officer Bob Dudley on Jan. 14 hours before it was signed in
 London . He later said about the meeting that Dudley had left him
“completely unaware” of a potential dispute with the TNK-BP
partners.  Sechin said he didn’t consider the collapse of the deal to
be a personal failure or the fault of Rosneft, RIA Novosti
reported today from Purpe, in northern Siberia.  The BP-Rosneft alliance itself is “interesting if one can
distance oneself from the difficulties that arose,” Medvedev
said, adding that he’d be happy if it “works out in the end,”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  