-- 
Egypt Property Companies Surge for Second Day on Proposed Law

-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-05-18T11:29:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/egypt-property-companies-surge-for-second-day-on-proposed-law.html
Talaat Moustafa Group (TMGH)  Holding led a
second day of gains for  Egypt ’s real-estate developers after the
government said it is preparing a law to protect investors from
prosecution on dealings with the former regime.  Talaat Moustafa, Egypt’s biggest publicly traded real-
estate developer, surged as much 8.8 percent to 4.35 Egyptian
pounds in Cairo and traded at 4.26 pounds as of 1:22  p.m.,
bringing its two-day gain to 16 percent, the most in almost a
year.  Six of October Development & Investment (OCDI)  Co. traded at
65.97 pounds, bringing its two-day gain to 13 percent.  Palm
Hills Developments SAE (PHDC)  traded at 1.98 pounds, taking its two-day
gain to 15 percent.  Egypt’s government is preparing a law to protect investors
from criminal prosecution, Cabinet spokesman Ahmed El Simman
said yesterday. It will be presented in “days” and will
include the creation of a committee to settle investment
disputes, he said.  “Since a large portion of businessmen are involved in
housing and real estate, the sector is on fire led by Talaat
Moustafa and Palm Hills as they were the hardest hit after the
revolution,” said Omar Darwish, equity sales trader at Cairo-
based Commercial International Brokerage Co.  Egyptian courts have annulled land purchases agreed under
the government of former President  Hosni Mubarak  without a
competitive bidding process. An appeals court is scheduled to
rule on May 24 on a 33 million square-meter (355 million square-
foot) purchase by Talaat Moustafa for its  Madinaty development .  The company reported first-quarter profit of 169.4 million
pounds, exceeding the 140.7 million pound average estimate of
three analysts on Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  