-- 
Lehman Suit Belongs in District Court, Michigan Agency Says

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-05-18T15:22:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/lehman-suit-belongs-in-district-court-michigan-agency-says-1-.html
The Michigan State Housing
Development Authority, which sued  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) 
in  bankruptcy court  over derivatives transactions, said it is
seeking to move its suit to a higher court.  The Lehman bankruptcy judge’s interpretation of swap
contracts is “surpassingly broad” and requires U.S. District
Court review because it has ramifications for international
securities markets, the authority said yesterday in court
papers. The global over-the-counter  derivatives market  is valued
at $601 trillion by the  Bank for International Settlements .  The Michigan agency is “one of many” derivatives trading
partners of Lehman disputing who gets paid first on a swap
agreement as a result of a previous ruling by U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge James Peck, it said in the filing. While that case
involving a  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  trustee unit was
settled, Peck’s ruling stands, it said.  “The bankruptcy court continues to adhere to the reasoning
of BNY Trustee -- while the correctness of that decision remains
very much unresolved,” it said, referring to Peck’s ruling.  In the BNY case, Peck ruled in Lehman’s favor, saying that
a swap agreement written to protect both parties from default by
the other party didn’t apply under bankruptcy law. He used a
similar principle earlier this month when he refused to dismiss
a Lehman suit against an entity known as Ballyrock ABS CDO 2007-
1 Ltd., the Michigan agency said.  Housing Agency’s Work  The authority sells bonds to raise money to help fund home
mortgages and rental housing developments. It struck a swap
agreement with a Lehman unit in 2000 to offset its interest rate
risk as a borrower, according to the filing. The agreement
allowed either party to end the transaction if the other
defaulted, it said.  After the Lehman unit filed for bankruptcy, the state
agency terminated the agreement by wiring the $36.3 million owed
to the unit. Lehman later made an “improper demand” for
payment of a $2.4 million semi-annual premium from the agency’s
bank and failed to return the money even though it admitted the
transfer was a mistake, according to the filing.  Peck put on hold the housing agency’s lawsuit -- and a
Lehman countersuit -- making it impossible for the agency to
defend itself, it said.  The lawsuit is Michigan State Housing Development Authority
v. Lehman Brothers Derivative Products, 09-01728,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ). The
bankruptcy case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-
13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 