-- 
Emerging Stocks Climb From Two-Month Low on Earnings Outlook, Commodities

-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-05-18T21:39:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/emerging-stocks-climb-from-two-month-low-on-earnings-outlook-commodities.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, lifting
the benchmark index from a two-month low, as commodity prices
climbed and speculation mounted that corporate earnings can
withstand tighter monetary policy in developing nations.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained the most since April
21, climbing 0.8 percent to 1,142.47 as of 4:45 p.m. in  New
York , after yesterday closing at the lowest level since March
23.  South Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  jumped 1.6 percent, the most in
 Asia .  Russia ’s Micex Index gained 1.1 percent, and  Mexico ’s IPC
index surged 1.6 percent.  Commodities producers led stock market gains in Moscow and
Warsaw as oil jumped more than 2 percent in New York and copper
for three-month delivery rose for a fifth day, surging 2.4
percent. OAO Novatek, Russia’s second-largest gas producer,
added 2.9 percent in Moscow and OAO Gazprom, the world’s biggest
natural-gas producer, climbed 1.8 percent.  “Present share prices are attractive because of the recent
decline,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market strategist at
Manila-based Banco de Oro Unibank Inc. “It’s a good time to
bargain hunt stocks which will show resilient earnings.”  The MSCI’s developing nation gauge dropped for five
straight days through yesterday, the longest losing streak since
Feb. 10. The index has retreated 5.1 percent this month, erasing
this year’s gains, amid a slump in raw materials, interest-rate
increases in emerging markets and renewed sovereign-debt
concerns in the euro area. Stocks on the index trade at 11.2
times estimated profits, down from a multiple of 13.4 at the end
of last year.  Rand, Ruble  The South African rand strengthened by 0.6 percent against
the dollar and the ruble appreciated by 0.9 percent.  Poland ’s WIG20 Index rallied 0.7 percent, buoyed by copper
producer  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH) , which rose by 2.8 percent.
Hungary’s BUX Index gained 0.3 percent.  Brazil’s Bovespa index dropped 1.3 percent as increased
bets for the nation’s higher borrowing costs and concern about
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis offset higher commodity prices.
Homebuilder PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos & Participacoes led
declines by companies that depend on credit growth, while Vale
SA followed metal prices higher.  Grupo Mexico SAB, Mexico’s largest mining company, surged 5
percent and Minera Frisco SAB soared 5.8 percent. Industrias
Penoles SAB, the country’s largest silver producer, climbed 2.1
percent.  Turkey ’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  declined 2.5 percent on
speculation that possible government regulations aiming to curb
loan expansion would hurt bank profits.  Inflation and interest rates will be “peaking soon” in
some emerging markets such as China and  India  which tightened
monetary policy early, according to  RBC Capital Markets .  ‘Room to Pause’  “Inflation may be approaching a tentative peak in a number
of emerging-market economies,” RBC said in a note to clients.
This may allow central banks “room to pause, stop or scale down
their rate-hike plans in the second half of the year.” RBC
cited China, India and  Brazil  as nations that have been “at the
front end of the growth/inflation cycle in emerging markets.”  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  narrowed 10 basis points to 295,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  