-- 
Leonard Green Getting No Respect With Too-Low 99 Cents Only Bid: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 
2011-05-18T20:10:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/leonard-green-gets-no-respect-with-99-cents-only-bid-real-m-a.html
Leonard Green  & Partners LP is trying
to buy  99 Cents Only Stores (NDN)  on the cheap, and almost no one says
it will succeed unless the deal is valued at least 10 percent
more than what is now the lowest bid for a discount retailer in
five years.  99 Cents, which carries everything from flip flops to
potatoes and balloons, this month traded 7.6 percent above the
takeover bid of $19.09 a share from the Los Angeles-based buyout
firm, indicating investors expect a higher offer. Including net
cash, the acquisition values the company at $1.1 billion, or 7.9
times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, the cheapest for a discount retailer since October
2005, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Leonard Green, which is working with the City of Commerce,
California-based company’s founding family, made the offer in
March after shares of 99 Cents posted the biggest drop among
U.S. discount retailers in the prior 12 months. While the chain
has yet to expand beyond  California ,  Nevada ,  Arizona  and  Texas ,
it has the second-highest profit margin and the most sales per
square foot among rivals and may draw a sweetened offer of
$21.09, according to Wall Street Strategies Inc.  Dollar Tree
Inc. (DLTR)  may also bid, BB&T Capital Markets and MKM Partners said.  “Clearly, 99 Cents Only is in play,” said Anthony Chukumba, a New York-based analyst at BB&T. "$19.09 is not going
to get it done, and that’s what the market’s telling you.”  Angela Thurstan, a spokeswoman for 99 Cents, and
Chesapeake, Virginia-based  Dollar Tree ’s Timothy Reid didn’t
return phone calls requesting comment. Michael Gennaro with
Leonard Green declined to comment.  Going Private  Leonard Green and the Schiffer-Gold family, which owns
about a third of 99 Cents’ outstanding shares, offered on March
11 to take the company private for $19.09 a share in cash. The
deal to buy the 67 percent of the stock not already owned valued
99 Cents at about $1.3 billion, excluding net cash of about $203
million.  The deal’s Ebitda multiple is the cheapest among discount
retailers greater than $100 million since private equity firm
Sun Capital Partners Inc. agreed in 2005 to buy ShopKo Stores
Inc. of  Green Bay , Wisconsin, for 6.1 times Ebitda, or $1.1
billion including net debt, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  99 Cents has climbed 21 percent since the deal was
announced and has traded at an average of 82 cents, or 4.3
percent, above the offer price. The spread reached its widest on
May 10 when it closed at $20.54, or 7.6 percent higher than the
joint bid, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Satisfying Shareholders  “The current group of people who made the offer are going
to raise it up in order to satisfy shareholders,” said  Brian Sozzi , an analyst with Wall Street Strategies in  New York .  Leonard Green, the private equity firm founded in 1989 by
Leonard I. Green, has acquired companies from Budget Rent-a-Car
Corp. to J. Crew Group Inc. Green died in October 2002 at age
68, less than a year after formally handing over the reins of
his firm.  FBR Capital Markets Corp. (FBCM) , 99 Cents’ largest non-affiliated
investor with about 3.8 million shares, opposed the offer in an
April 8  letter  to the board, saying it undervalues the retailer.  “The bid that the family made is simply way too low,”
Brian Macauley, who oversees $750 million as co-manager of the
FBR Focus Fund, part of the firm’s $1.6 billion in client
assets, said in an interview.  U.S. Recession  Billionaire investor  Nelson Peltz ’s Trian Fund Management
LP offered 8.5 times to 9.3 times 2012 Ebitda for rival discount
retailer  Family Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO)  in February, implying a
takeout price for 99 Cents of $21.75 to $23.50 a share,
Arlington, Virginia-based FBR said in the letter. Family Dollar
rejected the $7.7 billion bid in March, and Peltz has since
asked the Matthews, North Carolina-based retailer to reconsider.  Discount retailers are luring buyout firms after sales and
profits withstood the 18-month U.S. recession that ended in June
2009, the longest since the Great Depression. Shoppers are still
seeking lower-priced goods during the recovery.  99 Cents’ board formed a special committee of three
independent directors to consider the offer last month, and the
Schiffer-Gold family assured investors that they will consider
any proposals that may arise.  David Gold  is the chairman of 99
Cents, and Eric Schiffer is chief executive officer.  Founded in  1982 , 99 Cents operates 285 stores, about three-
quarters of which are in California, with the rest in Texas,
Nevada and Arizona, according to an April statement. In addition
to brand-name general merchandise, the store offers perishable
groceries, such as tomatoes, eggs and deli meat.  Selling Groceries  Dollar Tree would be the only strategic buyer for 99 Cents
because both chains sell the majority of their items at a single
price point, unlike Family Dollar and  Dollar General Corp. (DG)  of
Goodlettsville,  Tennessee , according to BB&T’s Chukumba and
Patrick McKeever, an analyst at MKM Partners. Dollar Tree, which
had 4,101 U.S. stores as of January, could support almost twice
that many, Chukumba said.  “99 Cents Only has much more grocery exposure, not just
dry goods but perishable groceries as well, more frozen and
refrigerated, and they even sell produce,” said McKeever, who
is based in Grosse Pointe,  Michigan , and rates 99 Cents “buy”
and Dollar Tree “neutral.”  99 Cents makes $289 in revenue per square foot, the most
among U.S. dollar stores, according to Wall Street Strategies’
Sozzi. The company also generated 5.3 cents of profit per dollar
of revenue in the last 12 months, the second most in the
industry, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That means
Dollar Tree with a 6.8 percent profit margin may be the only
strategic acquirer that could easily boost efficiency.  Higher Margins  “In retail, sales per square foot is perhaps the key
metric,” FBR’s Macauley said. “Given 99 Cents’ historical
margins, given their same-store sales in relation to where
everybody else is, it makes sense that their future margins
could be quite a bit higher. That needs to be recognized by
anyone that’s selling or buying this company.”  Leonard Green stepped in after 99 Cents’ shares had fallen
almost 2.9 percent in the previous 12 months. Rival retailers’
stock performances ranged from Family Dollar’s gain of 42
percent to Minneapolis-based  Target Corp. (TGT) ’s drop of 2.8 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. 99 Cents rose 23 cents, or 1.1
percent, to $20.49 today in New York.  “The  stock trading  up above $19.09 is just recognition
that the market sees the value that’s inherent in the
business,” FBR’s Macauley said. “This is a deal that makes a
lot of sense for strategic and financial buyers. As long as
there’s a good process run here, then we think the stock will be
taken out at a much higher price.”  Overall, there have been 9,332 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $913.2 billion, a 22 percent increase from
the $749.6 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 