-- 
Tepco Misleading Public Over Nuclear Crisis

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-05-18T05:41:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/tepco-misleading-public-over-nuclear-crisis.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. has made
misleading statements about when it will stabilize its nuclear
reactors crippled by the March 11 earthquake and tsunami, said
Tetsuo Ito, head of the Atomic Energy Research Institute at
Kinki University in western Japan.  The company, known as Tepco, yesterday reiterated the
schedule on its so-called road map announced a month ago to
achieve cold shutdown of the three radiation-leaking reactors as
early as October. Setting a timetable without knowing
the condition of the reactor cores doesn’t make sense, Ito said
in a phone interview from  Osaka .  “Only after understanding what’s going on inside the
buildings and reactors, will it be clear what parts of the
timetable are achievable,” Ito said. “Devising a road map
without that will give the public a false sense of security.”  On May 15, or more than two months after the disaster at
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, Tepco said conditions were worse
than expected in reactor No. 1 when it found all uranium
fuel rods had melted. Today it sent four workers into reactor
No. 2 for the first time since March 14 to measure radiation
levels and assess whether work can be done to fix gauges that
will show the condition of the core.  “It’s highly likely No. 2 and No. 3 reactors are worse
than thought,” Ito said. “Tepco devised the first (road map)
before fully grasping the situation inside the reactor
buildings; a scientist wouldn’t do such a thing.”  Ito has headed the  institute , which started running  Japan ’s
first university-based nuclear reactor in 1961, for more than
five years. He has spent 35 years in nuclear engineering
research.  Targets Achievable  Tepco officials believe the targets remain achievable,
spokeswoman Ryoko Sakai said by phone today. She declined to
comment on Ito’s other remarks.  When asked whether Tepco has sought the advice of nuclear
engineering academics, Vice President Sakae Muto said yesterday
the company has talked to experts, nuclear companies and
government bodies around the world.  Tepco has also been criticized by government officials for
responding too slowly to the crisis that unfolded at Fukushima
after the tsunami washed ashore.  The utility plans to build self-circulating cooling systems
in reactor buildings damaged by explosions after the earthquake
and tsunami knocked out power and pumping equipment to cool fuel
rods and spent pools.  This is to achieve a cold shutdown, where the core
temperature in the three damaged reactors falls to below 100
degrees Celsius (212 degrees Fahrenheit).  Forced Evacuations  Beside radiation leaks into the atmosphere forcing about
50,000 families near the plant to evacuate, more than 10 million
liters (2.6 million gallons) of contaminated water have leaked
or been released into the sea.  Millions of liters of radiated water have also filled
basements and trenches at the station from leaking reactor
vessels and piping.  Since the accident, Tepco shares have lost 82 percent of
their value. They traded at 392 yen at 2:32 p.m. in  Tokyo  today
compared with 2,153 yen on March 10.  Japan’s government in April raised the severity rating of
the Fukushima crisis to the highest on an international scale,
the same level as the Chernobyl disaster in 1986. The station,
which has withstood hundreds of aftershocks, may release more
contamination than Chernobyl before the crisis is contained,
Tepco officials have said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  