-- 
Hershey CEO West Leaves to Take Helm at KKR’s Del Monte Foods

-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 
2011-05-18T15:37:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/hershey-names-john-bilbrey-interim-president-ceo-on-david-west-departure.html
Hershey Co. (HSY)  Chief Executive Officer
David West is departing to head Del Monte Foods Co. after
clashing last year with the Trust that controls the maker of
Kisses candy.  Operations chief John Bilbrey will take the helm
temporarily, the Hershey, Pennsylvania-based company said today
in a statement. The board will “work quickly” to find a
permanent replacement, Hershey said.  Bilbrey became operations chief last year, and helped
establish Hershey brand products around the world, according to
the statement. The company got about 15 percent of its $5.7
billion in revenue from outside the U.S. last year.  “This is a significant negative development for Hershey
given high loyalty to former CEO West throughout the
organization,” Eric Katzman, an analyst with Deutsche Bank in
 New York , wrote in a note to clients today. “It will be
difficult for Hershey to recruit as capable a CEO near to
intermediate term.”  Hershey will lack leadership during a difficult period
including increased competition and high costs for ingredients,
wrote Katzman, who rates the shares a “hold.”  Hershey shares fell $1.62 to $55.46 at 11:08 a.m. today in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. They had gained 21
percent this year before today.  West and the Hershey Trust clashed in 2009 and 2010 over
how to respond to  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) ’s bid for Cadbury Plc.
Members of the Trust pushed an aggressive counter-offer, while
West urged caution, people familiar with the matter said last
year. Kraft completed the 11.7 billion pound ($18.9 billion)
acquisition last year.  Lost Title  Hershey lost the title of biggest U.S. confectionery maker
with Mars Inc.’s $23 billion takeover of Wm. Wrigley Jr. Co. in
2008.  Company founder Milton Hershey gave the Trust his stock in
1918 to fund a school for disadvantaged children. The Trust held
30 percent of the economic value of Hershey and 80 percent of
the voting power.  The Trust removed six Hershey directors in 2007, saying it
was displeased with the company’s performance. That year then-
CEO Richard Lenny retired, and West was elevated from chief
operating officer to succeed him.  West, 48, will join San Francisco-based Del Monte Foods
Aug. 15, the company said today in a statement.  “After 10 years with the company, Mr. West felt it was the
right time to take on the next challenge,” said Kirk Saville, a
spokesman for Hershey. He declined to elaborate on the reasons
for West’s departure.  A group led by KKR & Co. bought Del Monte Foods in March
for about $5 billion, including debt. The company’s pet-food
brands include Meow Mix, Kibbles ‘n Bits and Milk Bone dog
treats, while the consumer products division sells fruits,
vegetables and broth products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  