-- 
Hershey Interim CEO May Get Permanent Job If Outsiders Balk

-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e   a n d   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 
2011-05-19T20:24:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/hershey-names-bilbrey-interim-ceo-as-west-joins-kkr-s-del-monte.html
Hershey Co. (HSY) ’s newly named interim
chief executive officer, John Bilbrey, may emerge as the best
candidate for the permanent job because the trust that controls
the candy maker could scare off outsiders.  The Hershey trust, which has 80 percent of the voting
power, clashed with Bilbrey’s predecessor, David West, and the
board in recent years. The most recent battle happened when West
resisted the trust’s entreaties to counter  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) ’s
successful bid to acquire Cadbury Plc.  It’s hard to recruit outsiders when the CEO lacks
independence, said Joel Koblentz, senior partner at the Koblentz
Group, an Atlanta-based recruiting firm.  “If they cross the line between governance and infringe on
leadership, they can’t attract the best candidates,” he said.
“The best-qualified CEOs want to run the show.”  Bilbrey, who became operations chief last year and has
helped establish Hershey brand products around the world, is a
leading contender for the permanent job, according to Eric Serotta, an analyst with Wells Fargo Securities in  New York .  The board will “work quickly” to find a permanent CEO,
the Hershey, Pennsylvania-based company said yesterday.  “We thank David West for his leadership during a period of
growth for the Hershey Company and express our confidence in
J.P. Bilbrey who was also essential to that growth,” Leroy S. Zimmerman, the trust’s chairman, said in a statement.  The trust has been playing an active role since at least
2007, when it removed six directors, saying it was displeased
with the company’s performance. That year, then-CEO Richard Lenny retired, and West was elevated from chief operating
officer to succeed him.  Badgered  For months in 2009, Robert Reese, then managing director of
the trust, badgered West to merge with Cadbury. West and his
bankers argued at the time that a takeover might undermine
Hershey’s financial stability. West was concerned Reese was
negotiating behind his back as he finally tried to make a deal
in  London , according to people who participated in the merger
discussions.  In the end, Kraft acquired Cadbury for 11.7 billion pounds
($18.9 billion), and Hershey missed its best chance to quickly
attain the U.K. candy maker’s global scale and its foothold in
such fast-growing emerging markets as  Latin America  and  India .  While some analysts said at the time that West would be
pushed out, Reese left first, in October, after the trust
declined to reappoint him. Reese, a former Hershey general
counsel and scion of the clan behind Reese’s Peanut Butter Cups,
filed a lawsuit, later withdrawn, alleging trust members
violated their fiduciary duty in the purchase of a golf course.  Stagnant  Before he decided to leave, West managed to goose stagnant
sales growth; last year, Hershey generated a 7 percent gain.
Annual net income per share, at 93 cents in his first year on
the job, will be $2.79 this year, analysts estimate on average.  West’s departure won’t change much at Hershey, said Kevin Dryer, assistant vice president at Gabelli & Co., which manages
about $20 billion in assets, including Hershey shares.  “It still will have great brands, a leading position in
the U.S. market,” said Dryer, who is based in Rye, New York.
“They have been driving margin growth in the last few years
and, going forward, they have pricing power.”  Hershey shares fell 39 cents to $55.09 at 4:21 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. They have gained 17
percent this year.  West, 48, will join San Francisco-based Del Monte Foods on
Aug. 15, the company said yesterday in a statement.  “After 10 years with the company, Mr. West felt it was the
right time to take on the next challenge,” said Kirk Saville, a
spokesman for Hershey. He declined to elaborate on the reasons
for West’s departure.  A group led by KKR & Co. bought Del Monte Foods in March
for about $5 billion, including debt. The company’s pet-food
brands include Meow Mix, Kibbles ‘n Bits and Milk Bone dog
treats, while the consumer products division sells fruits,
vegetables and broth products.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in New York at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  