-- 
European Union Delays Vote on Carbon Trade, Sales From $7 Billion Reserve

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-05-18T13:06:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/eu-delays-vote-on-co2-registry-to-june-debate-seen-tomorrow.html
The European Union said it will
discuss proposed changes to carbon-registry rules with member
states tomorrow and will call a vote on the issue in June, a
month later than originally planned.  The regulation designed by the European Commission, the EU
executive in Brussels, will improve protection against abuse and
fraud in the region’s carbon market and facilitate the creation
and transfer to the  European Investment Bank  of permits from a
special post-2012 reserve valued at around 5 billion euros ($7
billion). The EIB will sell the permits and the proceeds will be
used to support low-emission technologies.  Permits for December delivery in the EU emissions trading
system, known as the ETS, dropped as much as 1.2 percent today
to an eight-week low of 16.44 euros. The EU Climate Change
Committee, composed of representatives from national
governments, was previously scheduled to vote on May 19 on the
commission draft presented earlier this month.  “The commission welcomes the support by member states that
the amendments to the EU ETS registries regulation should be
decided as soon as possible,” Isaac Valero-Ladron, spokesman
for the commission, said in an e-mailed statement today. “Given
the broad range of proposals it has decided to debate the
amendments tomorrow but call the vote on the proposals in mid-
June in the next Climate Change Committee meeting.”  Infrastructure Security  The EU is tightening carbon trading rules and upgrading
infrastructure security after thieves stole in January more than
2 million allowances from three national registries that track
emissions transactions. The draft regulation includes a 24-hour
delay in the transfer of emission permits that may be
fraudulent, establishing a harmonized alert mechanism in case of
emergency, exchange of information on suspected fraud and a two-
factor identification of users.  While most of the measures will be applicable to the single
registry, which will replace national carbon centers in the next
trading period that starts in 2013, some may become mandatory in
the current phase from 2008 to 2012, Yvon Slingenberg, head of
the emissions unit at the commission, said in March.  The commission has said the single registry will become
operational next year. The draft regulation also includes a
provision a provision that would allow the delivery to the EIB
of the allowances from the special post-2012 reserve of 300
million permits before the common registry becomes fully
functional.  NER300 Permits  A contest launched by the commission in November for the
first portion of aid from the reserve, known as NER300,
attracted 78 bids for subsidies to store carbon dioxide
underground and promote renewable energy.  The EIB is due to begin selling the allowances one month
after receiving them and sales will take place in regular
intervals and at least every second week. The commission said
yesterday it will be able to deliver the NER300 permits to the
EIB when the draft regulation on registries enters into force.  Following an approval in the Climate Change Committee, the
commission proposal would require three months of scrutiny by
the EU nations and the European Parliament before formal
adoption. Decisions taken under this regulatory procedure, often
referred to as comitology, usually take four or five months.  The market has starting assuming phase-three supply may
start earlier than the middle of 2012 on the commission plan,
said  Emmanuel Fages , a Paris-based analyst for Orbeo, the carbon
venture of Rhodia SA and Societe Generale SA.  “Now we are seeing they are putting the plan into
action,” he said today from Paris.  Carbon-Dioxide Allowances  EU carbon-dioxide allowances for delivery in December
traded 0.7 percent lower at 16.53 euros as of 1:35 p.m. on
London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Under an agreement with the commission, the EIB will sell
the first tranche of 200 million allowances before the first
award decisions are made, with the verdicts to be announced in
the second half of 2012. The maximum period for the sales is
nine months. The remaining 100 million allowances will be sold
before the next phase of the ETS begins in 2013.  “Before sales start we will provide information about the
selling method or methods to be used,” Nick Antonovics, an EIB
spokesman in Brussels, said yesterday by e-mail.  The volume to be sold from the reserve is about 15 percent
of the ETS average annual ceiling of 2.08 billion metric tons in
the 2008-2012 trading period. The EIB said on April 4 that it is
considering the sale of permits through auctions, on an
exchange, in over-the-counter transactions or “a combination of
channels.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  