-- 
Naked Short-Sale Ban, N.Y. Bank Probe, Barclays: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-05-18T12:42:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/eu-naked-short-sale-ban-n-y-bank-probe-barclays-maerks-compliance.html
European Union governments agreed to
curb so-called naked short-selling of  government bonds  and
stocks, while Germany said the group should have gone further
and banned credit default swaps tied to the debt.  Finance ministers from the region’s 27 countries endorsed
restrictions on speculation at a meeting in Brussels yesterday,
insisting traders must have at least a  “reasonable
expectation”  that they can obtain the underlying securities
which they agree to sell short. Ministers didn’t back a last-
minute German request for a ban on so-called naked credit-
default swaps tied to sovereign debt.  Politicians including German Chancellor Angela Merkel and
French President Nicolas Sarkozy have claimed that naked short-
selling and naked CDS worsened the euro area’s sovereign-debt
crisis, and have called for EU curbs. Michel Barnier, the EU’s
financial-services chief, said last year that such trades could
lead to “disorderly markets and systemic risks.”  Yesterday’s deal concerns changes to proposals from the
 European Commission  last year. Governments will now work out the
final version of the law with the  European Parliament .  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  EU Stress Test Results to Be Published in June, Matolcsy Says  European Union bank stress test results will be published
in June,  Hungarian Economy  Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  told
journalists in Brussels yesterday.  Banks and regulators should aim to find “private-sector
solutions” to reinforce the capital of lenders that fail this
year’s round of EU stress tests, finance ministers of the 27-
nation EU said yesterday after a meeting in Brussels.  “The use of public funds will be available only as a last
resort, in case of need and subject to strict conditionality,”
the finance ministers said in an e-mailed statement. ‘Any public
support will be contingent on the submission of a restructuring
plan.”.  Ninety banks will be expected to maintain a Core Tier 1
capital ratio of at least 5 percent under the stress-test
scenarios, the  European Banking Authority , which is carrying out
the tests, said earlier this month. This year’s exams will
include a review of how lenders would handle a 0.5 percent
economic contraction in the euro area in 2011, as well as a 15
percent drop in European equity markets.  The EU’s stress tests on banks’ capital are unlikely to
lead to ratings changes, Standard & Poor’s Rating Services said
in a statement yesterday.  Banks Say Simpler Mortgage Form Could ‘Stifle’ New Products  For  Elizabeth Warren , the Obama administration adviser
setting up the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, simpler
mortgage paperwork is a “regulatory sweet spot” that will cut
lender costs and borrower confusion.  That view hasn’t stopped battle lines from forming around
the prototype “mortgage shopping sheet” the agency plans to
publish today. Industry groups say the revisions may lead to
limits on innovation and variety in lending, while consumer
advocates are resisting changes that might limit borrowers’
right to sue to stop a foreclosure.  The consumer bureau, created by the Dodd-Frank Act and set
to begin work on July 21, is required to propose the simplified
form by a year after its start date. Warren has said the goal is
to have a document that succinctly shows the costs of a loan and
gets to borrowers early enough to allow for comparison shopping.  Consumer bureau officials yesterday began showing bankers,
mortgage brokers, realtors and consumer groups two prototypes
that will be published today, according to two people present at
the meetings.  The forms are based on current law and regulations
regarding what lenders have to disclose, the people said. Until
now, simplification of disclosures has been impeded by a lack of
coordination among federal agencies and laws. That obstacle will
be removed when the consumer bureau takes over enforcement and
regulation writing in July.  Lenders, however, may face billions of dollars in costs if
the type and timing of documentation are changed and those costs
could be passed on to consumers, according to David Stevens, who
leads the  Mortgage Bankers Association .  For more, click here.  Loan Renewals to Become Harder on Basel Rules, UniCredit Says  Speculative-grade companies may find it harder to refinance
loans as new regulations hamper bank liquidity, prompting a turn
in the credit cycle, according to  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  analysts.  Banks under Basel III are seeking long-term funding at a
time when insurers are favoring short-term securities as a
result of new solvency rules. That’s draining liquidity for
banks by limiting appetite among insurers for their bonds,
Christian Weber, a Munich-based strategist at UniCredit, wrote
in a note to clients yesterday.  Speculative-grade issuers in  Europe  cut debt to an average
4.9 times cash flow from a peak of 6.4 times in 2007, according
to Fitch Ratings, while the amount of net debt held by borrowers
in the euro region has fallen 8 percent this year, CreditSights
Inc. said yesterday.  A change in the credit cycle “is definitely going to come
sooner or later,” Weber said.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision last year made
it more expensive for banks to lend to riskier borrowers by
raising the cost of the capital they’re required to set aside
against the loans. The new rules follow regulations known as
 Basel II , which are being adopted now and require lenders to
allocate more capital against higher-risk loans.  Banks Asked FSA to Cut PPI Claims Interest Rate, FT Reports  U.K. lenders that have to repay billions of pounds of
improperly sold payment-protection insurance failed in a bid to
have the interest rate on compensation claims reduced, the
Financial Times reported.  The banks approached the Financial Services Authority
before pursuing an unsuccessful court case to block the claims,
the FT said, citing a previously unreported section of a
consultation paper published by the FSA in March 2010.  Compliance Action  Goldman Sachs, BofA Said to Meet in Attorney General Probe  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Morgan
Stanley will meet with  New York  Attorney General  Eric
Schneiderman  as part of an investigation into mortgage
securitization, according to a person familiar with the matter.  The meetings, which will take place in coming weeks, were
requested by Schneiderman, 56, said the person, who didn’t want
to be identified because the discussions aren’t public.
Schneiderman, who took office in January, is examining mortgage
practices and the packaging and sale of loans to investors, the
person said.  Federal regulators and all 50 state attorneys general are
scrutinizing how the biggest U.S. financial firms handle home
loans. Last month, as states coordinated settlement talks with
banks over foreclosure practices, Schneiderman said that any
joint accord shouldn’t preclude individual states, such as New
York, from continuing their own inquiries.  Lauren Passalacqua, a spokeswoman for his office, declined
to comment on the planned meetings.  Michael DuVally , a spokesmen
for New York-based Goldman Sachs, and Lawrence Grayson, a
spokesman for Bank of America in Charlotte,  North Carolina , also
declined to comment. Mark Lake, a spokesman for  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
didn’t return e-mails and phone calls seeking comment after
normal business hours.  Barclays Pays Top Staff 7% Interest on Deferred Cash Bonuses  Barclays Plc (BARC)  will pay 7 percent interest annually to senior
employees on cash bonuses deferred for at least five years under
the bank’s plan to link compensation with long-term performance.  The final cash payment would be forfeited if the bank’s
core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial strength,
falls below 7 percent or if the staff member leaves, Simon
Hodges, a director in the bank’s compensation and benefits team,
said in a speech in  London  yesterday. The bank’s highest return
for customers is a 4.25 percent rate on a four-year bond.  The program, which started in February, is targeted only at
“very senior people,” Hodges said. The so-called contingent
capital plan features instruments that behave like bonds which
convert into a bank’s ordinary shares when a specific trigger
event occurs.  European Union  regulators approved rules to curb incentives
for excessive risk-taking last year, imposing limits on cash
payouts and the size of bankers’ bonuses.  A spokesman for Barclays wasn’t immediately available to
comment.  Maersk, CMA CGM Raided by EU in Shipping Antitrust Probe  AP Moller-Maersk A/S, owner of the world’s largest
container shipping company, CMA CGM SA and Hapag-Lloyd AG were
among companies raided by European Union antitrust officials
over possible collusion.  The  European Commission  made unannounced inspections at the
offices of companies active in “container liner shipping in
several member states,” it said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. It didn’t name the companies involved.  EU regulators said they had “reason to believe” that the
companies may have breached EU cartel or monopoly-abuse rules.
The raid doesn’t mean that the companies are guilty of anti-
competitive behavior, the commission said.  Maersk will “fully cooperate with the Commission’s
employees to investigate the matter thoroughly,” Christian
Kledal, the head of Maersk’s legal group, said in an e-mailed
statement. The company’s “practices are in compliance with EU
competition legislation,” he said.  Hapag-Lloyd, the shipping company owned by  TUI AG (TUI1)  and
Albert Ballin GmbH, said it is also under investigation.  Hapag said in a statement that regulators were checking
whether companies have breached antitrust rules since October
2008, when the EU ended immunity to deals, known as liner
shipping conference agreements, which fixed prices for almost
two decades.  CMA CGM, the world’s third-largest container shipping
company, is also part of the EU probe, it said in an e-mailed
statement. The closely held Marseille-based company said it is
cooperating with regulators.  For more, click here, click here, and click here.  Edmond de Rothschild Says Lisbon Office Inspected  Banque Privée Edmond de Rothschild Europe said its Lisbon
office was inspected by supervision and judicial authorities May
16 as part of an inquiry directed at two former clients of the
wealth manager.  A government prosecutor directed the investigation, which
involves two clients, and not the bank itself, the Portuguese
Attorney General’s Office said in an e-mailed statement. It
didn’t specify if they were current or former clients. Materials
were seized as part of the search, the office said.  The bank provided all the “legally required” cooperation,
Edmond de Rothschild said in its own statement. The company said
its business continues “in full normality.”  OTC Derivatives Cash at Risk Dropped to $21 Trillion, BIS Says  The amount of cash at risk in the global over-the-counter
derivatives market dropped at the end of 2010 as the value of
interest-rate swaps declined. Overall trading totals rose 3
percent.  Banks and large investors held $601 trillion of swaps,
forwards and options, up from $583 trillion as of June, the  Bank
for International Settlements  said  yesterday . The total is on a
notional basis, an amount used to calculate payments between
traders, and doesn’t represent money that changed hands.  The amount outstanding for contracts on interest-rates,
currencies, credit-default swaps and commodities has fallen from
a high in June 2008. The financial crisis exposed broad risks in
the unregulated market and the September 2008 bankruptcy of
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , one of the largest swaps dealers,
made it more expensive to trade as banks and money managers
feared losing other large trading partners.  The Dodd-Frank Act, passed in the wake of the credit
crisis, requires most swaps to be processed by a clearinghouse
and traded on exchanges or similar systems.  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  Canellos Says U.S. ‘Attuned’ to Insider-Trading  George Canellos, director of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission’s New York regional office, discussed the
government’s use of wiretaps in insider-trading cases.  Canellos spoke with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness.”  For the video, click here.  Deutsche Bank CFO Says Concerned About Shadow Banking System  Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  Chief Financial Officer Stefan Krause said
Germany’s largest bank is “greatly concerned” about the
“shadow banking system.”  New rules such as higher capital requirements haven’t
affected the shadow banking sector and regulators should address
non-financial companies to ensure a “level playing field,”
Krause said during a panel discussion at a financial conference
in Frankfurt yesterday.  Global regulators said in April that information gaps may
undermine their efforts to limit risks to the financial system
from so-called shadow banks. Authorities have warned that shadow
banks such as structured investment vehicles, hedge funds and
money market mutual funds, could be used to evade attempts by
regulators to clamp down on excessive risk-taking in the wake of
the crisis.  Comings and Goings  Madoff Trustee’s Ex-London Lawyer Fired for Padding Expenses  A London lawyer who had represented the U.S. trustee
liquidating Bernard Madoff’s assets was fired by his law firm
for padding his expenses. He had been retained to help recover
assets in Europe.  Christopher Grierson, a partner at  Hogan Lovells  LLP who
advised on asset-tracing and fraud, claimed more than 1 million
pounds ($1.62 million) in false expenses over a four-year
period, according to the Lawyer, a trade magazine.  “Christopher acted entirely on his own,” the firm said in
a statement yesterday. “He was a long-standing partner in the
firm and highly regarded. We are very saddened and concerned by
these events, which represent a major breach of trust.”  No clients were affected and Grierson agreed to repay the
money within 14 days, Hogan Lovells said. The firm conducted an
internal investigation and referred the matter to the  Solicitors
Regulation Authority , which oversees lawyer conduct. The
Authority launched an investigation after the firm notified it,
spokesman Colin Clark said.  Grierson declined to comment through a spokesman.  Kohn ‘Deeply Regrets’ Pain Caused in Banking Crisis  Former Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Donald Kohn said he
“deeply regrets” the impact on consumers of the financial
crisis unleashed by a credit market boom and the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Kohn is being considered for a seat on a committee of the
Bank of England.  “I placed too much confidence in private market
participants to police themselves,” Kohn told U.K. lawmakers in
London yesterday when asked whether he wanted to apologize for
the Fed’s role in the crisis. “I also agree that cops weren’t
on the beat. The regulators were not alert to the risks as they
could have been.”  Kohn, 68, retired in September and was a close ally of Alan
Greenspan and Ben S. Bernanke, presiding over a housing boom,
the worst U.S. financial slump since the Great Depression and
the Fed’s deployment of unprecedented weapons to stem the
turmoil. While Greenspan was lauded as one of the best central
bankers in history when he retired in 2006, the Fed has
subsequently been criticized for not seeing the crisis coming.  Kohn is now a nominee to join the Bank of England’s
proposed Financial Policy Committee, which will meet quarterly
on how to ensure banking stability. Its first meeting, which
will be chaired by  Mervyn King , is on June 16.  Kohn said yesterday he was fit to be on the Financial
Policy Committee given his experiences, saying, “I believe I
will not make the same mistake twice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 