-- 
Europe Aims to Keep IMF Job as Strauss-Kahn Faces Exit Call

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-05-18T22:47:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/europe-seeks-to-keep-top-imf-post-as-strauss-kahn-starts-facing-exit-calls.html
European officials closed ranks to
defend their hold on the  International Monetary Fund’s  top job
as pressure mounted on the agency’s jailed leader,  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , to step down.  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said the IMF
needs to name an interim leader because Strauss-Kahn is
“obviously not in a position” to run the fund. Austrian
Finance Minister Maria Fekter told reporters in Brussels
yesterday that Strauss-Kahn “risks damaging the IMF.” Senator
Mark Kirk, a Republican from  Illinois , sought his resignation.  At stake is leadership of an institution that approved a
record $91.7 billion in emergency loans last year and provides a
third of bailout packages in Europe. Strauss-Kahn’s arrest may
give emerging markets, the drivers of global growth, momentum to
their push to end a postwar deal under which a European heads
the fund and the U.S. picks the World Bank president.  “There is no lack of talent -- whether in  Europe  or the
emerging markets -- to replace Strauss-Kahn,” said Joseph Tan,
the Singapore-based chief economist for  Asia  at Credit Suisse
Group AG’s private-banking division. “There has been a gradual
shift of economic power and representation to emerging markets
but institutions like the IMF and the World Bank are still
centered heavily in the West.”  The charges that Strauss-Kahn, 62, sexually assaulted a
maid in a midtown Manhattan hotel over the weekend started the
rounds of speculation on a possible successor. His lawyer denies
the claims and says the IMF chief will plead not guilty.  Geithner’s Call  “It’s important that the board of the IMF formally put in
place for an interim period somebody to act as managing
director,” Geithner, who previously worked at the fund, told an
audience in  New York  yesterday. He said “you want the IMF to
have the capacity to be helpful” on global financial issues,
particularly in Europe.  Jean-Francois Cope, the head of France’s Union For a
Popular Movement ruling party, today said Strauss-Kahn was no
longer in the capacity to do his job.  “I don’t see how he can do his job of IMF chief,” he told
reporters in Paris. “So, consequently, the issue will have to
be solved in the coming days.”  Finance ministers from Sweden to  Spain  say there’s a need
for a European as Strauss-Kahn’s potential successor as the
region contends with a sovereign-debt crisis.  South African, Russian and South Korean officials have
called for a candidate from an emerging market, while  Brazil 
indicated it won’t push for the switch.  China ’s government asked
for a “fair and transparent process.”  Christine Lagarde   “If they are serious about this and they really think it’s
time for them to put forward a candidate and get the job, then
they have to get moving,” said Morris Goldstein, a fellow at
the  Peterson Institute  for International Economics in  Washington 
who was an IMF official for 24 years. “If they do nothing and
wait and wait and wait it will again be a European.”  The name most frequently cited for a European candidacy is
 France  Finance Minister Christine Lagarde, Goldstein said.
Former U.K. Prime Minister Gordon Brown has told friends he has
global support for his candidacy, the Financial Times reported.  Brown hasn’t asked the British government to back him for
the IMF role, Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said
yesterday. Prime Minister David Cameron said last month that
Brown might not make the “most appropriate” IMF head because
the job needs someone who “understands the danger of excessive
debt.”  Not ‘Right Man’  Sweden’s Finance Minister Anders Borg today said Brown “is
not the right man” for the position.  Lagarde may face legal challenges of her own. Jean-Louis Nadal, the public prosecutor attached to France’s highest
appeals court, this month requested a judicial inquiry into
whether Lagarde abused her powers in reaching a settlement with
businessman Bernard Tapie. Lagarde pledged cooperation while
saying the allegations are without foundation.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said May 16 there are
“good reasons” for Europe to keep the top job. She was echoed
that day by Belgian Finance Minister Didier Reynders, and by his
counterparts Borg of  Sweden , Jan Kees de Jager of the
Netherlands and Elena Salgado of Spain yesterday.  Strauss-Kahn, a former finance minister and possible
contender for the French presidency, was arrested May 14 and
later ordered held without bail as a flight risk. A bail hearing
is scheduled for tomorrow. The next court date had initially
been expected to take place on May 20.  Brussels Meeting  The IMF chief had been scheduled to attend a meeting of
European finance ministers in Brussels addressing the euro-area
debt crisis. Ministers approved May 16 a 78 billion-euro ($111
billion) bailout for Portugal and stepped up pressure on  Greece 
to narrow its deficit and sell assets to win improved aid terms.  “We are in a very difficult European situation and it’s
quite natural that we would have a strong European influence in
the IMF,” Sweden’s Borg told reporters in Brussels.  For the first time since the arrest, officials started
suggesting he should resign. Salgado said Strauss-Kahn should
show “his best judgment” when asked whether he should step
down.  The U.S. currently accounts for 16.8 percent of votes at
the IMF.  Germany , France and the U.K. together have 14.4
percent.  Lack of Unity  Officials in developing nations showed little sign of unity
to back a single candidate, even after BRIC countries have
pushed in recent years to boost the input of emerging markets in
the IMF and  World Bank . BRIC members are Brazil,  Russia ,  India 
and China.  The process to select Strauss-Kahn’s replacement should be
“fair, transparent” and aimed at finding the best person for
the job, China’s Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Jiang Yu said.  Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff’s administration has no
intention of using the current crisis to push for an emerging
market candidate to lead the fund, according to two government
officials who couldn’t be named because they’re not authorized
to speak publicly on the matter.  “I am rooting so that this situation resolves itself in a
positive way” for Strauss-Kahn, Brazilian Finance Minister
Guido Mantega said in an interview yesterday on Globo
television.  Mantega, in a letter to Group of 20 nations, said that IMF
members shouldn’t make a “precipitated” decision about who
will succeed Strauss-Kahn at the helm of the IMF, and whoever is
chosen should represent the “greatest number” of member-
nations and continue the work of giving a bigger voice to
emerging market nations.  South Africa   South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  in an
interview today said Trevor Manuel, his predecessor, is “highly
respected in the world” and that the country is already in
talks with other developing economies on a possible candidate.  Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo in Seoul today said
he hoped “this will be an opportunity for a country in the
emerging economies to take the post.”  Emerging markets “have every right to compete for leading
positions in international organizations,” Russia’s central
bank Deputy Chairman Sergei Shvetsov said. His country in 2007
nominated a former Czech prime minister to counter Strauss-
Kahn’s candidacy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  