-- 
Euro Climbs Against Dollar, Swiss Franc on Higher Stocks, Growth Optimism

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-05-18T09:19:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/euro-climbs-against-dollar-swiss-franc-on-higher-stocks-growth-optimism.html
The euro rose against the dollar and
the Swiss franc as rising stock markets reduced demand for the
safest assets amid optimism that  Europe ’s economic recovery will
be sustained.  Europe’s common currency had its first back-to-back gains
against its Swiss counterpart this month. The Dollar Index
dropped for a third day before the  Federal Reserve  releases
minutes from its April 26-27 meeting, after which Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled the economy still requires monetary
support. The pound fell against the euro as minutes of the Bank
of England’s May 5 policy meeting showed the majority of
officials said tightening policy could hurt the recovery.  “There’s clearly some degree of relief and that’s being
shown in the euro,” said Jane Foley, a senior currency
strategist at Rabobank International in London. “There are
certainly signs of stability, though there are still jittery
undertones, which are going to make the market vulnerable.”  The euro gained 0.2 percent to $1.4270 at 9:43 a.m. in
 London . It appreciated to 1.2550 Swiss francs, from 1.2531
yesterday in New York. The dollar weakened 0.4 percent to 81.06
yen. The euro fetched 115.65 yen, from 115.91.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 0.6 percent, rebounding
from a four-week low. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index increased 1.1
percent today, snapping a four-day decline, while Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index futures rose 0.4 percent.  Recovery ‘Undeterred’  Europe’s recovery is becoming more solid and is undeterred
by tensions in sovereign-debt markets, European Union Economic
and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said. The base of the
expansion is “broadening from exports to domestic demand, and
thus the recovery is becoming more solid and self-sustaining,”
he said at a conference in Brussels today.  The British pound declined 0.3 percent to 87.84 pence per
euro and was little changed versus the dollar at $1.6250.  Andrew Sentance  maintained his call for a half-point
increase in the key rate from a record low of 0.5 percent. Chief
Economist  Spencer Dale  and  Martin Weale  continued a push for a
quarter-point increase, the Bank of England statement showed
today in London. Governor  Mervyn King  and the other five members
of the Monetary Policy Committee voted for no change.  Adam Posen 
kept up a call for more bond purchases.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which
measures the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, fell 0.3 percent to 75.200. The dollar has
lost 4.3 percent this year, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes. The yen has weakened 4.3 percent,
while the euro is 2.7 percent stronger, the gauges show.  U.S. Stimulus  “We don’t hear any talk about rate increases in the U.S.,
while such expectations are supporting the euro,” said  Tsutomu Soma , a bond and currency dealer at Okasan Securities Co. in
 Tokyo . “The Fed is printing dollars aggressively, but we have
yet to see inflation concerns rise. That means the U.S. is far
away from exiting stimulus measures.”  Bernanke, at his first press conference following a policy
decision last month, said the economy still requires monetary
support while the need to contain inflation means further easing
is unlikely. Fed policy makers kept the target rate for
overnight lending between banks at zero to 0.25 percent. The
rate has remained at that level since December 2008. The euro
region’s refinancing rate is at 1.25 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  