-- 
Dollar Weakens Versus Currencies of Commodity Exporters; Sterling Slumps

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-05-18T21:02:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/euro-gains-for-a-third-day-versus-dollar-strengthens-against-swiss-franc.html
The dollar dropped against currencies
of commodity exporters including Norway and  New Zealand  as raw-
material prices and stocks rose, fueling investor appetite for
higher-yielding assets.  The greenback fluctuated versus the euro after minutes of
the  Federal Reserve ’s last meeting showed officials began to
coalesce on a strategy to reverse record monetary stimulus by
ending their reinvestment policy and later raising interest
rates. Sterling was the worst performer among major currencies
as minutes of the  Bank of England ’s May 5 meeting showed most
policy makers said higher rates might hinder recovery.  “Commodities are driving what is happening in the foreign-
exchange market today,” said  Mary Nicola , a New York-based
currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA. “The kiwi, the krone and
the krona, the high-beta currencies, are outperforming against
the dollar.” Beta measures risk relative to a market.  South Africa ’s rand rose versus all of its 16 major peers,
strengthening 0.6 percent to 6.9113 per dollar at 5 p.m. in New
York. Gold and platinum are South Africa’s biggest exports. New
Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, gained 0.5 percent to
78.90 U.S. cents. Norway’s krone and Sweden’s krona rose.  The dollar was little changed versus the euro at $1.4249,
compared with $1.4237 yesterday. It earlier weakened 0.3 percent
and gained 0.3 percent. The yen fell 0.3 percent to 81.64 per
dollar after gaining earlier as much as 0.6 percent. It touched
81.77 yesterday, the weakest since April 28. The Japanese
currency dropped 0.3 percent against the euro to 116.30 yen.  Commodity Index  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
climbed 2.3 percent in its first gain in four days. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index of stocks, which slid to its lowest level in
almost four weeks yesterday, advanced 0.9 percent.  The Swedish krona appreciated 0.4 percent to 6.2996 per
dollar, while  Norway ’s krone strengthened 0.5 percent to 5.5416
to the greenback.  New Zealand’s currency also advanced as the nation’s
statistics agency said producer input prices gained 2.2 percent
in the first quarter and confidence grew.  The ANZ-Roy Morgan consumer confidence index climbed to
103.2 from 101.4 in April, ANZ National Bank Ltd. said in an e-
mailed statement. A number greater than 100 shows optimists
outnumber pessimists.  Fed Minutes  Minutes released today of the Fed’s policy meeting on April
26-27 showed that almost all officials agreed the “first step
toward normalization” should be ceasing reinvestment of
principal payments on mortgage debt that began in August. A
majority preferred to sell the Fed’s securities after raising
short-term interest rates.  Talks over the exit strategy don’t mean tightening “would
necessarily begin soon,” the minutes said.  “The market is not liking this, as far as the currencies
are going,” said Joseph Trevisani, chief market analyst at FX
Solutions Inc. in Saddle River,  New Jersey . “If the market had
taken this as a new pronouncement in something that answered its
concerns, then you would have had a strengthening dollar, and
you have not.”  Policy makers are discussing how quickly to begin
withdrawing record stimulus after completing the purchase of
$600 billion in  U.S. Treasuries  by the end of June. They have
held the benchmark interest rate at zero to 0.25 percent since
December 2008.  St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said earlier in a
Bloomberg Television interview in New York that “it is
reasonable” for the central bank to tighten policy by year-end
by allowing its balance sheet to decline.  Pound Drops  Sterling declined 0.6 percent to 88.10 pence versus the
euro and slid 0.6 percent to $1.6161 as minutes of the British
central bank’s last meeting published today indicate Governor
 Mervyn King  and five other members of the nine-member Monetary
Policy Committee voted for no change in the record low 0.5
percent target lending rate.  Andrew Sentance  maintained his call for a half-point
increase, Chief Economist Spencer Dale and  Martin Weale 
continued a push for a quarter-point advance, and  Adam Posen 
kept up a call for more bond purchases.  “There has been nothing to change our view that there is
going to be no hike to rates coming out of the U.K. through the
rest of the year, and any reinforcement to that is a big deal to
the pound,” said  David Mann , regional head of research for the
Americas at  Standard Chartered  in  New York .  The pound has lost 0.4 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a gauge of 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar has fallen 4.1 percent,
while the euro has risen 2.7 percent.  European Recovery  Europe ’s recovery is becoming more solid and is undeterred
by tension in sovereign-debt markets, European Union Economic
and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said. The base of the
expansion is “broadening from exports to domestic demand, and
thus the recovery is becoming more solid and self-sustaining,”
he said at a conference in Brussels today.  European Central Bank officials ruled out a Greek debt
restructuring, clashing with political leaders over a solution
to the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  