-- 
Levin Backs Requiring U.S. Banks to Share Customer Data With IRS

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-05-18T19:43:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/levin-backs-requiring-u-s-banks-to-share-customer-data-with-irs.html
Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan
Democrat, is urging the  Internal Revenue Service  to impose
information-sharing requirements on U.S. banks similar to those
proposed for overseas institutions.  The IRS is considering two proposals as part of an effort
to crack down on  tax evasion . One proposal would require U.S.
banks to report to the IRS the identities of all customers who
aren’t U.S. citizens. The other calls for overseas banks to
inform the IRS of their U.S. customers.  Testifying today at an IRS hearing on behalf of Levin,
chairman of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations,
Elise Bean said the proposal directed at non-U.S. customers
would prevent the U.S. from becoming a tax haven. Bean, staff
director of the subcommittee, said it is fair to call on U.S.
banks to identify their non-U.S. customers if overseas
institutions might be required to disclose information about
their U.S. depositors.  “The United States and the IRS are going to have to get
cooperation from foreign tax authorities,” Bean said. “To get
that cooperation, we need to give cooperation as well.”  The proposal focused on the U.S. customers of overseas
banks is opposed by financial institutions including  Canada ’s
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  Allianz SE (ALV)  of  Germany  and  Aegon NV (AGN)  of the
Netherlands.  IRS Proposals  It is unclear when the IRS will approve either proposal.
Officials from the IRS and Treasury Department listened for
almost two hours today as a dozen representatives of banks,
regulators and non-profit organizations testified on the
proposal aimed at U.S. banks.  That measure, which could take effect as soon as Jan. 1,
2012, would require U.S. banks to report the identities of non-
U.S. citizens who receive more than $10 in interest during a
calendar year. Banking representatives told the IRS it would
cause their depositors to send their money to institutions in
countries that won’t report their identities to the IRS.  Tom Cardwell,  Florida ’s commissioner for the  Office of
Financial Regulation , said such a proposal would create safety
and soundness concerns for banks in his state.  “There is a real  liquidity risk ,” he said. “This does
not make me sleep easily at night.”  Alex Sanchez, president of the Florida Bankers Association,
said overseas depositors often park their money in U.S. banks to
avoid political persecution in their countries.  “People are concerned about kidnappings back home,” he
told the IRS.  Bean said those concerns are “misplaced.”  “We have never heard of a case -- ever -- where a
dissident has had their tax information turned over to a
government that is oppressing them,” she said. “We have very
careful procedures and policies to prevent that from
happening.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Steven Sloan in
Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  