-- 
Exelixis Pill Slows Prostate Cancer and Ovarian Tumors in Study

-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 
2011-05-18T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/exelixis-pill-slows-prostate-cancer-and-ovarian-tumors-in-study.html
Exelixis Inc. (EXEL) ’s experimental pill
reduced malignant growths in the bones of 86 percent of men with
prostate cancer and cut the spread of tumor cells in one-fourth
of women with ovarian cancer in a company study.  The research sought to gauge the effect of the drug called
XL184 on nine cancer types. Based on the findings released
today, Exelixis plans to conduct larger studies in ovarian and
prostate cancer, said Michael Morrissey, the South San
Francisco-based company’s chief executive officer.  Shares of Exelixis, which doesn’t have any marketed
products, have more than doubled since researchers announced on
Nov. 17 that the pill at least partly cleared bone masses in 19
of 20 men with prostate cancer. Slowing the spread of cancer may
lengthen their lives and ease their pain, Morrissey said.  “We have a lot to learn about this drug but it does have
an extremely exciting property -- it appears to resolve bone
metastases,” said  Eric Schmidt , an analyst for Cowen & Co. in
 New York , in a phone interview “That’s not something that’s
ever been observed in prostate cancer patients before.”  XL184, also known as cabozantinib, aims to halt the growth
or spread of tumors by blocking three enzymes that fuel cancer
cell growth and help bring blood to the tumor. A previous study
showed the drug reduced tumor size in 30 percent of patients
with thyroid cancer, Gisela Schwab, the company’s chief medical
officer, said in a telephone interview.  Year-End Application  Exelixis plans to release results from a larger trial in
thyroid cancer patients in the middle of the year and to file an
application for U.S. regulatory approval by the end of the year,
Schwab said.  Today’s findings will be presented in greater detail at a
meeting of the  American Society for Clinical Oncology  starting
June 4 in  Chicago .  Among 65 prostate tumor patients who took XL184 for 12
weeks and received bone scans, cancerous bone growths were gone
or reduced in 56 of them, the study found.  “The benefit we’re seeing to individual patients with
prostate cancer is very exciting,” said  Michael Gordon , a
medical oncologist at  Pinnacle Oncology Hematology  in
Scottsdale,  Arizona , and the study leader.  Ovarian cancer  tends to spread from the ovaries to nearby
soft tissue and small tumor deposits begin to appear on the
intestine and in the stomach, Gordon said. About a quarter of 51
patients had at least a 30 percent shrinkage of their growths, a
result he called “impressive” because the spread of ovarian
cancer is very hard to control.  Exelixis plans to stop testing XL184 in small-cell lung,
gastric and pancreatic cancers and to keep evaluating the
therapy against melanoma, breast, liver and non-small-cell lung
cancers, Gordon said.  Side effects included diarrhea, fatigue and redness and
tenderness on hands and feet, each in fewer than 10 percent of
patients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in  San Francisco  at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 