-- 
Exxon Sees Nuclear Demand Unchanged Post-Fukushima, Gardner Says

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-05-18T10:38:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/exxon-sees-nuclear-demand-unchanged-post-fukushima-gardner-says.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  said the Fukushima
nuclear disaster in  Japan  in March won’t affect the growth of
atomic power in the next 25 years.  Nuclear power will be unchanged at 8 percent of the total
energy mix in 2030 compared with 6 percent in 2005 as forecast
in the company’s annual energy outlook which was published in
early January.  “Nuclear is going to be an important power generation fuel
for the future, it is a low carbon energy source and we believe
diversification of energy sources is important,” said Rob Gardner, manager for the energy and economics division of Exxon
Mobil’s Corporate Strategic Planning department, at a media
briefing in Dubai today.  Countries including the U.S.,  China  and  Germany  are
reassessing their use of atomic power after a March 11
earthquake and tsunami destroyed  power lines  and flooded diesel
generators at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant, depriving its cooling systems of electricity. Fuel rods
in four of the plant’s six reactor buildings overheated, causing
fires, explosions and radiation leaks in the world’s worst
nuclear incident since the 1986 Chernobyl disaster.  Utilities in Britain don’t need to shut down or reduce
output at reactors after Fukushima, the U.K.’s chief inspector
of nuclear installations said. In an interim report, Mike
Weightman recommended 25 areas for review by mid-June, including
the layout of existing plants and emergency response.  Exxon Mobil expects 19 percent of power to be generated by
nuclear energy by 2030 compared with 17 percent in 2005,
according to its outlook.  Editors: Raj Rajendran, Stephen Cunningham.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  