-- 
Facebook to Tell Senate It Has ‘Robust Privacy Protections’

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-05-18T22:37:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/facebook-to-tell-senate-it-has-robust-privacy-protections-.html
Facebook  Inc. will tell U.S.
lawmakers that it has “robust privacy protections” during a
Senate hearing tomorrow on mobile privacy, according to a
summary of testimony released today by the company.  Facebook Chief Technology Officer Bret Taylor is scheduled
to testify before a Senate Commerce subcommittee about consumer
privacy and mobile devices. Executives from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  are also on the panel’s witness list.  Technology companies are facing increasing scrutiny from
Congress over how they collect, use and store customer
information, including data gathered from mobile devices. Apple
and Google, makers of software used in millions of smartphones,
defended their handling of user-location data at a Senate
Judiciary subcommittee hearing on May 10.  Taylor will tell senators tomorrow that mobile technology
“plays an increasingly important role” in how people use
Facebook, the world’s largest social networking site, according
to the summary. The company is “engaging with users on a new
transparent privacy policy that communicates about privacy in a
simple, interactive way,” the summary says.  Facebook “expects and requires” developers of
applications and websites that connect to its service to be
“responsible stewards” of user information, according to the
summary.  Along with Taylor, the witness list for tomorrow’s hearing
includes Catherine Novelli, vice president of worldwide
government affairs for Apple, and Alan Davidson, director of
public policy for Google.  Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat who
chairs the Senate Commerce Committee,  said  today he sent letters
to Apple and Google asking them whether applications that run on
their mobile platforms comply with online privacy laws for
children.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  