-- 
Falcao Lifts Porto to Europa League Final Win Over Portuguese Rival Braga

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-05-18T23:11:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/falcao-lifts-porto-to-europa-league-final-win-over-portuguese-rival-braga.html
Radamel Falcao capped a record run
through the Europa League as Porto defeated Portuguese rival
Braga 1-0 in the final in Dublin.  Falcao scored the only goal last night at the Dublin Arena
to give Porto its second title in European soccer’s second-tier
club competition. It was the Colombian striker’s 17th goal of
the tournament, extending his single-season record.  “My 17 goals were a bonus but the most important thing is
that we won,” Falcao said in comments on  UEFA ’s website. “The
key was the unity of the team.”  Porto’s Andre Villas-Boas, at 33 and 213 days, becomes the
youngest manager to win a European title. The first-year coach
has also gone unbeaten in winning the league, has captured the
Portuguese Super Cup and will lead Porto into the Portuguese Cup
final against Vitoria in four days.  Villa-Boas, who worked as a scout for  Jose Mourinho  at
Porto, Chelsea and  Inter Milan , was 95 days younger than
Gianluca Vialli when the Italian led Chelsea to the Cup Winners’
Cup title in 1998.  “I’m only sad because we could have played better,” said
Villas-Boas. “It wasn’t a good show after all. Both teams were
not calm. It was not representative of Portuguese foootball.”  Porto scored near the end of a defensive first half that
produced one attempt on target from each team.  Fredy Guarin made a run down the right flank in the 44th
minute before lofting a ball into the area. Falcao broke free
from his defender and headed past goalkeeper Artur from 12 yards
(11 meters) out.  Mossoro Miss  Braga midfielder Mossoro missed a chance to tie the game in
the opening minute of the second half when he went one-on-one
against Porto goalkeeper Helton, who saved with his right foot.  “It happened very quickly,” Mossoro said. “I wasn’t
happy. The frustration is magnified because we didn’t win.”  Braga’s next chance came with 15 minutes left, when Albert
Meyong scuffed a shot from the edge of the area. After Porto’s
Fernando Belluschi hit the crossbar in the 85th minute, Braga
pushed forward for the tying goal without producing another
scoring chance.  Braga was playing in a European final for the first time.
It was the final game for its coach Domingos Paciencia, who said
last week he would step down after the season.  “Porto were not as dominant as everyone expected,”
Paciencia said. “They scored in the 44th minute after we
slipped up. In the second half we tried and it was a pity
Mossoro couldn’t score.”  It was the eighth time teams from the same country met in
the final. The last occasion was four years ago, when Sevilla
beat Spanish rival Espanyol in a penalty shootout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  