-- 
Fed’s Bullard Says U.S. Must Fix Deficit Before Crisis Strikes

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 
2011-05-18T17:02:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/fed-s-bullard-says-u-s-must-fix-deficit-before-crisis-strikes.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said the U.S. needs to address its
 budget deficit  before investors lose confidence in the nation’s
ability to repay its debt.  “When it does blow up it will be too late,” Bullard said
today in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York .
“When markets lose confidence in the U.S. and say that they
don’t trust us anymore, rates will skyrocket and the crisis will
be upon you, all the debt and deficit figures will look all that
much worse, and you won’t be able to do anything about it
because these are problems that take a long time to fix.”  Lawmakers and investors shouldn’t take comfort in current
U.S. borrowing costs because markets are often “complacent”
about the risk from excessive deficit spending, as evidenced by
the unfolding of the sovereign debt crisis in  Europe , Bullard
said.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note climbed
three basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.15 percent at
12:50 a.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
Prices. That’s below its average of 4.08 percent during the last
decade, Bloomberg data show.  “You cannot take too much comfort from the fact that ‘Oh,
nobody is worried about this today,’ because when the crisis is
upon you it will really hit,” Bullard said. “It’s like the
markets are almost asleep about the whole issue until one day
you wake up and it becomes the primary issue.”  Bipartisan Accord  Lawmakers and the Obama administration are trying to reach
a bipartisan accord on cutting long-term deficits as part of a
plan to raise the legal limit on the national debt. Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Republican from  Kentucky ,
said his party wants “significant” cuts in spending and no tax
increases as a condition for lifting the limit.  “It really is important to get on this right now,”
Bullard said. “If you look at  U.S. debt  and deficit numbers,
we’re worse than some of the worst offenders in Europe.”  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said yesterday the U.S.
should get its deficit below 3 percent of gross domestic
product, from 10.9 percent of GDP projected for the current
fiscal year ending Sept. 30.  Bullard said that while it’s “helpful” that the issue is
being debated, it’s a “very dangerous thing” to allow
negotiations to “go right up to the deadline.”  On the debt ceiling, the U.S. was $25 million under the
$14.294 trillion limit as of May 16, according to  Treasury data 
released yesterday. Geithner said this week he had taken
measures to stay below the limit until Aug. 2.  “This is a cloud that’s hanging over the  U.S. economy  and
as long as it’s there I think it does reduce growth and hurts
the U.S. situation,” Bullard said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  