-- 
Fiat Said to Target $2 Billion Loan After Chrysler Stake Buy

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-05-18T12:43:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/fiat-said-to-seek-50-expansion-in-credit-after-raising-stake-in-chrysler.html
Fiat SpA (F)  will seek to expand a  credit
line  to as much as 1.5 billion euros ($2.14 billion) after
raising its stake in Chrysler Group LLC, three people familiar
with the matter said.  Fiat will start negotiations with banks after completing
the purchase of an additional 16 percent of Chrysler for $1.27
billion, said the people, who declined to be named because the
talks are private.  The loan will replace a 1 billion-euro revolving credit
line that expires in February 2012. On the new facility, Fiat
plans to work with  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) , which arranged the existing loan, and may also
bring in other lenders, two of the people said.  The Italian carmaker aims to complete the deal by July,
though a transaction could take longer depending on market
conditions, one person said.  A spokesman for Fiat, based in Turin,  Italy , declined to
comment on the company’s financing plan.  After gaining earlier today, Fiat fell as much as 8 cents,
or 1.2 percent, to 6.80 euros and was down 0.5 percent as of
2:36 p.m. in Milan, valuing the company at 8.4 billion euros.  Bolstering Finances  Fiat, which had 13.1 billion euros of liquidity at the end
of March, has been bolstering its finances in preparation of
taking a majority stake in Chrysler. The Italian carmaker sold 1
billion euros of five-year bonds last month, in its first public
transaction since 2009. Fiat is rated Ba1 by Moody’s Investors
Service, the highest non-investment grade.  Fiat Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  is set to
gain control of the American carmaker two years faster than
planned. He aims to increase Fiat’s stake to 46 percent in the
second quarter after completing transactions to repay Chrysler’s
$7.5 billion of U.S. and Canadian government loans.  Marchionne, 58, who is also the CEO of Chrysler, aims to
boost Fiat’s stake to 51 percent by the end of 2011 as he
prepares the Auburn Hills, Michigan-based company for an initial
public offering. Marchionne is pushing Chrysler to post its
first net income this year since emerging from bankruptcy.  Chrysler increased a planned bond offering, making it the
biggest high-yield offering in two years after lenders balked at
the automaker’s proposed loan. The bond may price as soon as
tomorrow.  Chrysler Revival  The Obama administration tapped Marchionne, who now runs
both automakers, to revive Chrysler after it emerged from
bankruptcy in 2009. In exchange for sharing technology,
management and reaching operating milestones, the U.S. and
Canadian governments are granting Fiat 35 percent of Chrysler
without paying any cash. The original deal was for Fiat to buy
the final 16 percent stake in 2013.  Fiat received an additional 5 percent in Chrysler from the
U.S. government last month, giving it a 30 percent holding, by
reaching targets that included opening Fiat’s dealerships in
 Brazil  to the American automaker’s vehicles.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  