-- 
Fisher Sells $1 Billion of Emerging Stock ETFs in Contrarian Bet

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-05-18T11:02:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/fisher-sells-more-than-1-billion-of-emerging-stock-etfs-in-contrarian-bet.html
Billionaire  Kenneth Fisher  said a
surge in investor optimism toward developing nations spurred his
money-management firm to sell more than $1 billion of emerging-
market exchange-traded funds last quarter.  Fisher Investments sold 20.6 million shares of the iShares
MSCI Emerging Markets Index fund and about 2 million shares of
the Vanguard MSCI Emerging Markets ETF, according to regulatory
filings. The Woodside, California-based firm, which had held
more than 20 million shares in the iShares fund since at least
September 2008, cut its stake by 99 percent and was the top
seller among more than 400 investors that reduced holdings in
the period ended March 31, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “This is about sentiment having gotten too ebullient, too
sanguine,” Fisher, who oversees about $44 billion as chief
executive officer of Fisher Investments, said in a phone
interview yesterday. “Things that lead a  bull market  early on
reach a period at some point, which we think is about now, where
they start to run out of steam.”  Fisher said his “underweight” position in emerging
markets is the biggest in several years, meaning he holds fewer
of the shares than are represented in benchmark indexes. By
contrast, developing-nation countries are global money managers’
most-favored investment destination for equities, with a net 29
percent owning “overweight” holdings, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch survey released yesterday.  ‘Always Dangerous’  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has climbed 152 percent
from its 2008 low, compared with a 60 percent gain in the MSCI
World Index, as economic growth of more than double the pace in
advanced nations lured investors. The emerging-market gauge rose
0.9 percent to 1,143.50 at 10:48 a.m. in  London , trimming the
retreat since March 31 to 2.3 percent. The index is down 0.7
percent for the year.  “People were seeing this as a near-certain place for
success, which is always dangerous,” said Fisher, who was
ranked number 252 on the Forbes list of the 400 richest
Americans this year.  The 60-year-old investor said 2011 will likely be a
“resting period” for the global equity rally. He said
investing in individual companies may be a more successful
strategy than regional or sector bets using ETFs, and he’s been
shifting money into technology and energy stocks.  “ETFs are a perfectly marvelous tool, but 2011 is more of
a year when they’re less useful,” Fisher said. “You can’t be
as picky with them.”  Biggest ETFs  Fisher Investments reported increased positions in
emerging-market companies with U.S.-listed securities including
LG Display Co., the South Korean maker of flat screens, and
 Banco Bradesco SA (BBD) ,  Brazil ’s second-biggest bank by market value,
according regulatory filings compiled by Bloomberg.  The money-management firm cut its holdings of the iShares
emerging-market ETF to 234,690 shares from about 20.8 million on
Dec. 31, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Its stake in the
Vanguard ETF was reduced to 75,966 shares from more than 2
million, the data show. The iShares ETF traded at an average
price of $46.53 in the first quarter, while the Vanguard ETF
averaged $47.02.  The funds, which change hands throughout the day like
stocks, are the biggest ETFs dedicated to emerging markets in
the U.S., with combined holdings of about $86 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Money managers who oversee more than $100 million in
equities must file a Form 13F with the Securities and Exchange
Commission within 45 days of each quarter’s end to show their
U.S.-listed stocks, options and convertible bonds. The filings
don’t show non-U.S. securities or how much cash the firms hold.  Underperformance  The MSCI emerging markets index has underperformed the MSCI
World index of advanced-country stocks by 2.3 percentage points
since March 31 as tighter monetary policy in countries including
 China ,  India  and Brazil raised concern that economic growth will
slow. Fisher said his reduction of emerging-market holdings was
driven mostly by the view that sentiment had become too bullish,
not a negative outlook for economic and earnings growth.  “There’s always little things going wrong, but this is not
about the economies,” Fisher said. “We’ve looked for the
beginning of shifts to somewhat different leadership” in the
markets, he said. 