-- 
Ford Sells Fuel-Tank Business to Plastic Omnium Unit

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-05-20T12:27:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/ford-sells-fuel-tank-factory-to-unit-of-france-s-plastic-omnium.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  is selling its fuel-
tank production to Inergy Automotive Systems LLC, a unit of
 France ’s Cie.  Plastic Omnium SA (POM) , as the automaker exits its
parts businesses.  The transaction is scheduled to close June 1, Ford said in
a statement. The tanks are made in a factory in Milan,  Michigan ,
that will be closed and replaced by a plant Inergy will build in
southeast Michigan, Ford said. Most of the plant’s 500 workers
will be offered jobs with Inergy or with Ford, said Della DiPietro, a spokeswoman for the second-largest U.S. automaker.  The factory was one of five remaining plants of the 17 that
Ford took back in the 2005 bailout of its former parts
subsidiary Visteon Corp. Ford will close an Indianapolis
steering-parts factory within 12 months and has three other
former Visteon plants for sale, said Della DiPietro, a company
spokeswoman. Ford, which retains ownership of the Milan plant,
said it sold the fuel-tank business for a price that “is not
material and will not be disclosed,” DiPietro said.  “We are delighted to announce the sale of our blow-molded
fuel tank business to Inergy,” Mark Blair, president of
Automotive Components Holdings, the unit Ford created for the
former Visteon plants, said in the statement. “This is another
important step in our strategic plan.”  Job Offers  The plant employs about 500 workers, DiPietro said. About
200 of the plant’s 430 hourly workers belong to the United Auto
Workers union and are eligible for jobs at Ford factories,
DiPietro said.  The “vast majority” of the plant’s 70 salaried employees
will receive job offers “on a transitional basis or a permanent
basis with the buyer,” DiPietro said.  Plastic Omnium is at least the second buyer that emerged
for the fuel-tank operations. In December 2006, Ford said it had
reached a memorandum of understanding to sell the business to
Flex-N-Gate, which the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker
described as an “international and privately held company with
numerous manufacturing operations in several countries.”  The Flex-N-Gate deal fell through in early 2009 because
“economic conditions at that time were not favorable,”
DiPietro said.  Fuel Tanks  Ford in 2000 spun off Visteon, once the second-largest U.S.
auto-parts maker. Even with Ford’s attempt to rescue its former
unit in 2005,  Van Buren Township , Michigan-based Visteon filed
for Chapter 11 protection in 2009. Visteon emerged from
bankruptcy Oct. 1, 2010, after paring debt by $2.1 billion.  By returning plants and offices to Ford in 2005, Visteon
eliminated responsibility for 18,000 workers represented by the
UAW. That allowed Visteon to lower its average hourly wage to
$18 from $38.  The company closed or divested 30 factories or units from
2006 to 2008 and trimmed its reliance on Ford to 28 percent of
sales in 2009 from 88 percent in 1999. Visteon has reported one
annual profit as an independent company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at   korland@bloomberg.net  