-- 
GE’s Immelt Sees ‘Positive’ 2011 Accelerating Into 2012

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-05-18T21:04:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/ge-s-immelt-sees-2011-industrial-growth-solidly-positive.html
General Electric Co. (GE) ’s operating
profit growth will accelerate in this year’s second half and
revenue may rise as much as 5 percent amid improvements in the
health-care, aviation, transportation and finance units.  “Our 2011 framework is turning positive and we see when we
look at incoming orders and things like that, there’s nothing to
derail that on a global basis,” Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  said today at the Electrical Products Group conference in
Longboat Key,  Florida . “We think we’re very well positioned for
2012 and beyond.”  GE should have about $30 billion in free  cash flow  over a
three-year period to buy back stock, boost dividends and pursue
“smart and strategic infrastructure deals,” Immelt said. He
said his priorities are to reduce the shares outstanding, known
as the float, restore the dividend to pre-financial crisis
levels and integrate purchases already made.  “We’ve done some deals,” Immelt said. “It’s much more
important to me that they get integrated well than doing new
deals.”  Sales of energy-efficient products such as gas turbines
will accelerate in the second half of this year, helping to
drive GE’s profit growth into 2012, Immelt said.  GE rose 17 cents to $19.76 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, snapping a string of three declines.  Industrial Focus  Immelt, 56, has reshaped Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE
over the past decade by focusing on industrial units and making
more than $12 billion in acquisitions since October, mostly in
energy, as he sold most of  NBC Universal .  Immelt, who has more than doubled the amount spent on
research and development in his tenure to about $6 billion this
year, said he plans to keep overall levels in a range of 5
percent to 6 percent of industrial sales.  The energy division should post profit growth in the second
half and expand more quickly in 2012 as demand for natural gas
turbines picks up with the discovery of more fields and
increased scrutiny of nuclear energy worldwide. GE has broadened
its product line and global reach in natural gas, where it was a
leader in the U.S.-driven market of the late 1990s, he said.  “We see the formation of a natural-gas power-generation
cycle forming,” Immelt said. “A year ago we thought heavy-duty
gas turbine shipments would be flat. Now we see growth this year
and next year.”  GE Capital , which the company expects to be regulated by
the  Federal Reserve  under new financial oversight laws, is well
prepared for the process. The unit expects to have capital
levels above so-called U.S. Tier I requirements and
international requirements under Basel III, he said.  Margins in the industrial divisions will stay in a range of
16 percent to 17 percent a year and probably accelerate in 2012,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  