-- 
Geithner Says U.S. Can’t Rely on ‘Magical Thinking’ to Fix Budget Deficit

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-05-18T01:49:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/geithner-says-u-s-can-t-use-magical-thinking-to-tackle-budget-deficit.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said budget deficits threaten to erode the nation’s
economy and security and can’t be reduced with “magical
thinking.”  “Neither Congress nor the administration should be able to
use unrealistic assumptions about future economic growth or
future political courage, or other forms of magical thinking, to
minimize the magnitude of the reforms that will be necessary,”
Geithner said today in a speech at the Harvard Club in  New York .  Geithner said U.S. “fiscal problems are so pressing that
they threaten to undermine the foundations of our future
economic strength” and the country’s ability “to protect our
national security interests.”  Lawmakers and the Obama administration are trying to reach
a bipartisan accord on cutting long-term deficits as part of a
plan to raise the legal limit on the national debt. Senate
Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  said his party
wants “significant” cuts in spending and no tax increases as a
condition for lifting the limit.  In response to a question, Geithner said the U.S. benefits
from global confidence in the dollar, especially during times of
financial and economic stress when investors turn to the
currency as a safe haven.  “That is an important thing we want to preserve and
protect about the  United States ,” he said. He declined to
comment on recent investment trends for the dollar and other
currencies.  Debt Ceiling  On the debt ceiling, the U.S. was $25 million under the
$14.294 trillion limit as of yesterday, according to Treasury
data released today. Geithner said yesterday he had taken
measures to stay below the limit until Aug. 2.  The ceiling “relates only to commitments we have made in
the past,” Geithner said today. “Rather than debating whether
we should pay our past bills and whether default would in fact
be so bad; rather than designing schemes to allow us to continue
to make interest payments by breaking our commitments to seniors
and veterans, we should be working together to narrow our
differences on how to solve the causes of future deficits.”  Geithner wrote lawmakers to say he had declared a “debt
issuance suspension period,” which allows him to free up
borrowing room from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability
Fund and the Government Securities Investment Fund. The steps,
widely expected as Republicans and Democrats argue over when and
how to raise the debt cap, won’t affect retirees or government
operations.  ‘Not an Option’  Geithner reiterated today that “the debt limit must be
increased. It is simply not an option for Congress to evade the
basic responsibility to protect America’s creditworthiness.”  In his first public comments related to the arrest over the
weekend of International Monetary Fund Managing Director
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn  on sexual assault and attempted rape
charges, Geithner said the IMF needs to get its leadership in
place because its chief is “obviously not in a position” to
run the lender. Geithner also said  John Lipsky , the IMF’s acting
managing director, is competent and capable.  On fiscal issues, Geithner said the administration’s effort
to overhaul the corporate  tax code  to reduce deductions and
loopholes likely won’t be completed in the next two months
because it is trying to tackle broader budget issues.  “We’d like to take a run at doing this ahead of the
election,” he said.  Geithner said the U.S. should get its deficit below 3
percent of gross domestic product, from 10.9 percent of GDP
projected for the current fiscal year ending Sept. 30. The U.S.
also needs a “debt cap so that politicians cannot choose to
live with unsustainable deficits,” he said.  Speaking later on a panel after a screening of the HBO film
“Too Big to Fail,” Geithner said  Europe  has the capability to
handle the region’s debt crisis. “They just have to do it,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  