-- 
General Mills Agrees to Acquire Yoplait for $1.15 Billion

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 
2011-05-18T20:07:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/general-mills-to-buy-yoplait-for-1-15-billion.html
General Mills Inc. (GIS) , the maker of
Cheerios cereal, agreed to buy a controlling stake in French
yogurt maker Yoplait SAS for about 810 million euros ($1.15
billion) to expand the brand into  developing countries .  General Mills will acquire 51 percent of Yoplait and 50
percent of the entity that controls the Yoplait brand from
French private-equity firm PAI Partners, according to a
statement today. French dairy cooperative Sodiaal will hold the
remaining stakes in both.  General Mills, which began exclusive negotiations with PAI
and Sodiaal to buy the yogurt maker in March, plans to build
Yoplait’s market share and accelerate expansion in emerging
countries. The company, led by Chief Executive Officer Ken Powell, jockeyed with rivals such as  Nestle SA (NESN)  for Yoplait,
people familiar with the matter have said.  Minneapolis-based General Mills has had the U.S. license
for Yoplait since 1977. Sodiaal had aimed to end the license in
September 2012, according to a September regulatory filing.
General Mills had sought arbitration on the matter. When the
deal is completed, both companies will end the arbitration,
according to today’s statement.  Yoplait, whose products are sold in 70 countries, dates
back to 1964, when French farmers joined together to sell their
products nationally, according to Yoplait’s  website .  Barclays Capital  and Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer advised
General Mills, according to the statement.  General Mills rose two cents to $39.89 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have advanced
12 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Boyle at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net  