-- 
German Defense Minister Warns Against Cuts as Army Overhauled

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-05-18T15:16:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/german-defense-minister-warns-against-cuts-as-army-overhauled.html
German Defense Minister Thomas de Maiziere warned that the military shouldn’t be “burdened” by
budget cuts as he announced an overhaul that transforms the
country’s Cold War-era conscription army into a smaller force.  De Maiziere declined to say whether he would press ahead
with the 8.3 billion euros ($12 billion) in defense cuts by 2014
agreed on by the government last year. Details of the reductions
will be negotiated by coalition lawmakers in July, the minister
said.  “The army has for a long time been structurally
underfinanced for the tasks that it’s being asked to do,” de
Maiziere said in a speech today in Berlin.  Germany , whose 5,000 troops in  Afghanistan  make it NATO’s
third-largest contributor there, is undertaking one of its
biggest military revamps since World War II even as  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s government seeks to narrow the  budget deficit .
De Maiziere said Germany’s military needs to become a smaller,
voluntary fighting force to confront 21st-century challenges.  The military will shrink from its current level of more
than 200,000 soldiers to no more than 185,000. The overhaul
began under De Maiziere’s predecessor, Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg, who resigned in March after a plagiarism scandal.  The changes will require making a career in the military
more attractive in a country whose population is skeptical of
military interventions. Germany failed to back the international
campaign in  Libya . The overhaul will also call for base
closures, a politically fraught scenario that will be detailed
later this year, de Maiziere said.  The minister plans to streamline the military’s leadership
structure, saying there there’s “too much supervision over too
little work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  