-- 
Greek Bonds Lead Peripheral Debt Decline as Restructuring Concern Persists

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-05-18T15:55:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/german-government-bonds-decline-as-stocks-gain-damping-demand-for-safety.html
Greek 10-year bonds fell on concern
the Mediterranean nation won’t avoid restructuring its
borrowings, curbing demand for securities from indebted nations
on the European Union’s periphery.  The spread, or yield difference, between benchmark Greek
debt and German bunds widened for a third day, even as gains in
Asian and European equities suggested investors’ appetite for
risk was improving.  Germany  sold 4.91 billion euros ($7 billion)
of five-year notes at auction. Portuguese bonds fell even as the
nation successfully sold 1 billion euros of two-month bills and
two days after European finance chiefs endorsed a 78 billion-
euro bailout for the Iberian nation. Spanish debt also fell,
while German bunds reversed gains.  “The periphery is underperforming, but it’s not a massive
blowout,” said Norbert Aul, a strategist at Royal Bank of
Canada in London. “The key topic is the concern about Greek
restructuring in the market, which combined with the increased
supply is making people a bit jittery.”  Yields on 10-year Greek debt rose 17 basis points to 15.79
percent as of 4:13 p.m. in  London . Two-year note yields dropped
10 basis points to 24.88 percent.  Swaps on  Greece  signal a 67 percent likelihood the nation
will default within five years, even as European Central Bank
officials today ruled out the possibility. Their stance clashes
with European Union finance ministers, who for the first time
this week floated the idea of extending Greece’s debt-repayment
schedule as the nation struggles to meet the terms of last
year’s 110 billion-euro ($156 billion) rescue.  Restructuring ‘Catastrophe’  “A Greek debt restructuring is not the appropriate way
forward -- it would create a catastrophe,” ECB Executive Board
member Juergen Stark said today in Lagonissi, Greece. Fellow
board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said in Milan that “a solution
for reducing debt but not paying for it will not work.”  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  this week
proposed the “reprofiling” of Greek bonds, extending their
maturities rather than forcing bondholders to take losses.
European governments have thus far favored taxpayer-funded
bailouts to stamp out the region’s sovereign-debt woes.  “The market has come to the conclusion that there has to
be some form of restructuring at some point,” said  Michael Markovic , a senior fixed-income strategist at Credit Suisse
Group AG in Zurich. “That’s already priced into the market.”  Credit-default swaps on Greece surged 66 basis points to
1,335, those on Ireland rose 20 to 630 and swaps for  Portugal 
jumped 20.5 to 626, according to CMA. The Markit iTraxx SovX
Western Europe Index of swaps on 15 governments climbed 7 basis
points to 185.  Portuguese Yields  Portuguese bonds fell for a second day, pushing 10-year
yields up 17 basis points to 9.17 percent. Two-year Portuguese
note yields increased 16 basis points to 10.63 percent.  “Yields have come up quite a bit in the ten-year
segment,” said Viola Stork, a fixed-income analyst at Helaba
Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in  Frankfurt . “They’ve got the
bailout, but it remains to be seen how well they use the money,
and whether they can successfully implement the financial
reforms.”  Portugal’s unemployment rate rose in the first quarter,
reaching the highest since at least 1998. The nation’s economy
entered a recession amid government spending cuts that are being
implemented to narrow the country’s budget deficit. The jobless
rate climbed to 12.4 percent from 11.1 percent in the fourth
quarter, the Lisbon-based National Statistics Institute said.  Spanish bonds fell for a second day, raising 10-year yields
by four basis points to 5.35 percent. Yields on 10-year Italian
debt rose two basis points to 4.62 percent.  German Reversal  German bunds fell, reversing earlier gains, with the 10-
year bund yield climbing two basis points to 3.11 percent. It
reached 3.07 percent on May 16, the lowest level since March 16.
Yields on two-year notes were also two basis points higher at
1.81 percent.  German  government bonds  have handed investors a loss of 0.7
percent this year, according to indexes compiled by the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg, while
Treasuries have returned 2.2 percent. Portuguese debt has lost
12.8 percent, Greek debt 10 percent, while Irish debt dropped
6.7 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London at 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  