-- 
Glaxo’s Diabetes Drug Avandia Pulled From U.S. Pharmacies

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-05-18T21:45:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/glaxo-s-diabetes-drug-avandia-pulled-from-u-s-pharmacies.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s diabetes drug
Avandia will be pulled from U.S. pharmacies in November and
available only through a special program, the  Food and Drug
Administration  said.  The restrictions are part of a risk mitigation strategy
established in September with a medication guide to limit the
use of Avandia after data suggested patients had a higher chance
of heart attacks. The drug and combination therapies containing
it will no longer be available in retail pharmacies starting
Nov. 18, according to the FDA, which is requiring doctors and
patients to enroll in a program to prescribe or take them.  Avandia, once the world’s best-selling diabetes bill at $3
billion in annual revenue, generated $680 million in sales last
year for London-based Glaxo. About 460,500 patients filled a
prescription for Avandia, Avandamet or Avandaryl at a retail
pharmacy from January to October 2010, the FDA said in a  safety
announcement  posted today on its website.  “Healthcare providers and patients must be enrolled in the
Avandia-rosiglitazone Medicines Access Program in order to
prescribe and receive rosiglitazone medicines,” the agency
said, using the chemical name for the drug. Patients will
receive their medicines through specially certified mail order
pharmacies, the agency said.  Glaxo plans to start telling pharmacists and physicians
about the new program within the 60 day window allowed by the
FDA, and implement the changes at or before that time, said Mary Anne Rhyne, a company spokeswoman, in an e-mailed statement.
Patients shouldn’t abruptly stop taking their diabetes medicines
without first discussing it with their doctors, she said.  The drugs can be used only by patients who are already
taking them successfully and who can’t control their blood sugar
levels with other diabetes drugs, including Actos from  Osaka ,
Japan-based Takeda Pharmaceutical Co., the agency said.  Use of the medication has fallen by half during the year,
with 235,500 patients filling a prescription in January and
119,000 getting the drugs in October, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  