-- 
Glencore Said to Price Initial Share Sale at 530 Pence, Midpoint of Range

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-05-18T18:37:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/glencore-said-to-price-initial-offering-at-530-pence.html
Glencore International Plc, the Swiss
commodities company, plans to set the final price for its
initial public offering at the middle of its original range,
according to a person with knowledge of the sale.  The company intends to price the shares at 530 pence
apiece, said the person, who declined to be identified before a
public announcement. The company’s initial May 4 range of 480
pence to 580 pence was revised May 16 to 520 pence to 550 pence,
according to a term sheet obtained by Bloomberg News that day.  Demand for the IPO weathered a commodities rout in the week
ended May 6 that wiped $99 billion off raw materials’ market
value, the biggest weekly decline in two years. Glencore is
seeking to raise about $11 billion through the share sale,
including a so-called overallotment option, valuing the Baar,
Switzerland-based company at about $61 billion.  The IPO, the biggest since General Motors Co. sold stock in
November, has attracted so-called cornerstone investors
including BlackRock Inc. and  Abu Dhabi ’s sovereign wealth fund,
according to the company’s prospectus published May 4.  Most other investors who requested the shares may only get
about 25 percent of what they asked for because the order book
is oversubscribed, said a person familiar with the sale, who
declined to be identified because the information is private.
The stock is scheduled to start conditional trading in  London 
tomorrow at 8 a.m. under the ticker GLEN LN.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff St.Onge at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net . 