-- 
Glencore Shares Stick to Offer Price After $10 Billion IPO

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-05-19T16:57:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/glencore-ipo-to-raise-10-billion-as-investors-defy-market-rout.html
Glencore International Plc, the
commodities company that sold $10 billion of stock in the
world’s biggest initial share sale this year, ended its first
trading day in  London  at the same price offered to investors.  Shares in Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore closed at 530
pence, giving the company a market value of 36.5 billion pounds
($59 billion). They earlier rose as much as 3.8 percent to 550
pence and never traded below the offer price. More than 550
million shares were traded during the day.  “Nothing would’ve done sentiment worse than if there was
an immediate mark-down,” James Bevan, London-based chief
investment officer at CCLA Investments, said in an interview
with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television’s “On The Move.”
Bevan said he didn’t buy stock in the offer. “I’m absolutely
confident the share price goes up in the immediate term, but I’m
very uncomfortable about what happens thereafter.”  The initial public offering, the biggest since General
Motors Co. sold stock in November, attracted investors including
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and  Abu Dhabi ’s sovereign wealth fund. Glencore,
ending three decades of operating as a closely held partnership,
announced the sale three weeks before a commodities slump wiped
$99 billion off raw materials’ market value in five days.  Commodities Slide  “Commodity prices are heavily down but still I think
investors are looking for the longer term,”  Eugen Weinberg ,
head of commodity research at Commerzbank AG, told Maryam Nemazee in an interview in London on Bloomberg Television’s
“The Pulse” yesterday. “Commodities are still in a very long-
term upward move.”  Glencore’s market value positions it behind  Anglo American
Plc (AAL)  as the world’s seventh-largest mining company. Four analyst
reports last month from banks advising Glencore on the IPO
estimated the company’s value at an average range of $52.3
billion to $68.7 billion.  Glencore sold 1.14 billion shares in its offering in London
and  Hong Kong , the company said in an earlier statement. The
final sale price of 530 pence a share is at the midpoint of
Glencore’s announced May 4 range of 480 pence to 580 pence.
Stock in the Hong Kong portion of the offering was sold at
HK$66.53 apiece ($8.56), Glencore said today.  A total of 2.7 percent of the offer was sold to investors
in Hong Kong and some institutional investors elected to take
shares on the Hong Kong branch of Glencore’s register, it said.  ‘Amazing Deal’  “They could have priced this much higher, there is very
strong demand there,”  John Meyer , an analyst at Fairfax IS in
London, said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “This is an
amazing deal, it’s a great company, it’s got consistent long-
term growth.”  Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg, 54, is seeking
funds for growth. The CEO said last month there’s “good value”
in a potential merger with 42 billion-pound miner  Xstrata Plc (XTA) ,
in which Glencore already owns 34.5 percent. He said last week
he’s also seeking to expand Glencore’s grains unit in the U.S.
and may acquire oil refineries.  “Glencore’s offer has seen substantial interest from
investors around the world and was significantly oversubscribed
throughout the price range,” Glasenberg said in the statement.  Glasenberg is the largest shareholder, with a 15.7 percent
stake, which is valued at about $9.3 billion. The listing also
makes billionaires of directors Telis Mistakidis, Daniel Mate,
Tor Peterson and Alex Beard, the company’s prospectus shows.  Shareholder Lock-Ups  Glencore’s directors and employees will own about 83.1
percent of the company after admission, according to today’s
statement. Holders are subject to various lock-ups, it said.  The listing follows an 11 percent decline in the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities in the first week of May,
the biggest slide since December 2008, as U.S. service-industry
growth slowed and German manufacturing orders fell. The 19-
company  FTSE 350 Mining Index (F3MNG) , including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and
Rio Tinto Group, has declined 6.4 percent this month.  Gold investors including billionaire  George Soros  and
Touradji Capital Management LP, founded by Paul Touradji, exited
all or most of their assets in the SPDR Gold Trust in the first
quarter. Eric Mindich’s Eton Park Capital Management LP, a so-
called cornerstone investor in Glencore, cut its stake in the
trust by 48 percent in the period, a government filing shows.  Business Model  Still, Glencore’s business model, combining commodities
trading and raw-materials production, allows it to profit as
prices rise and fall, according to Tim Huff, a director of
mining research at  RBC Capital Markets  in London.  “A lot of people try and correlate pricing of an IPO with
the commodity pricing during the period,” Huff said by phone.
“The difference for Glencore is that it’s a very unique
business model amongst the mining companies that are listed in
London. Companies like Glencore with its trading business tend
to benefit from the volatility of the market. For a company like
Glencore, 2011 is an ideal year to be listing.”  Demand for the stock has also likely been bolstered by so-
called index-tracking funds, which may buy about 13 percent of
the shares on offer in the IPO,  Paul Galloway , a London-based
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd., wrote in a May 6 report.
Glencore is eligible as a “fast entrant” to the FTSE U.K.
Index Series and will be included in the FTSE-100 Index on May
25, FTSE said in a May 6 statement.  “It’s oversubscribed, it’s part of the index and the index
guys aren’t going to get all of their allocations, so I think
it’s fairly expected that you’re going to get demand on this in
the opening couple of weeks,” RBC’s Huff said.  Aabar, BlackRock  The IPO attracted 12 cornerstone investors, including Abu
Dhabi’s Aabar Investments PJSC and BlackRock, which committed a
combined $3.1 billion, the prospectus shows. Those investors are
locked into their holdings for six months, Glencore said.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
are managing the IPO as global coordinators, along with  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  as joint bookrunners. Barclays
Plc, Societe Generale SA and UBS AG are co-bookrunners.  Glencore, which trades materials including coal, oil and
metals, sold $7.9 billion of new stock, while existing holders
sold an additional $2.1 billion in shares for tax purposes and
to repay loans, the company said today. The IPO includes an
overallotment option, known as the greenshoe, of 10 percent of
the offer, which may boost proceeds from the sale to as much as
$11 billion.  About $5 billion will be allocated to  capital spending  over
the next three years, Glencore said April 14. The company is
also paying $3.2 billion to increase its stake in Kazakhstan-
based metals producer TOO Kazzinc to 93 percent from 50.7
percent. The purchase will be funded by $2.2 billion in cash and
$1 billion in new Glencore shares, the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 