-- 
Global Regulators Quiz Banks on Remuneration, Bonus Policies

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-05-18T14:47:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/global-regulators-quiz-banks-on-remuneration-bonus-policies.html
Banks are to be quizzed by global
regulators on how they have put in place international
guidelines on pay and bonuses, following a review last year that
showed implementation was incomplete.  The  Financial Stability Board  plans to “assess the
different approaches to implementing” its principles by
surveying “a sample of major firms directly” as well as
national supervisors, the FSB said in a  statement  on its
website. The FSB also intends to examine the impact of country-
level measures to curb excessive pay.  Financial watchdogs and politicians across the world have
sought to overhaul bonus policies in the wake of the financial
crisis to prevent bankers from taking excessive risks in order
to reap short-term gains.  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s
financial services commissioner, has said further action may be
needed in the 27-nation region to prevent bonus payouts at
“unjustifiable levels.”  The  Financial Stability Forum , the FSB’s predecessor,
published a set of  principles  in 2009 including that bonus
payments should be deferred to take account of the lenders’
exposure to risk.  Under EU rules, as much as 60 percent of a bonus payout for
risk-takers and senior managers must be deferred for at least
three years, and half of the remaining amount must be in the
form of shares.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s third-largest bank by assets, said
yesterday it will pay 7 percent interest annually to senior
employees on cash bonuses deferred for at least five years under
the bank’s plan to link compensation with long-term performance.  The FSB brings together regulators, central bank governors
and finance ministry officials from the Group of 20 countries,
as well as international standard setting bodies such as the
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .  The European Banking Authority will conduct a separate
review of how effectively pay guidelines have been implemented
by banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  