-- 
Goffer Passed Tips to Galleon to Impress Rajaratnam, Prosecutor Tells Jury

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-05-18T19:27:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/goffer-passed-tips-to-galleon-to-impress-rajaratnam-u-s-says.html
Zvi Goffer, a former deputy of
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, employed corrupt
lawyers who passed tips on deals and used disposable mobile
phones to communicate, a prosecutor told a jury in  New York .  “This is a case about corruption, about traders who bribed
lawyers to get secrets from companies,” Assistant Manhattan
U.S. Attorney Andrew Fish told federal court jurors today in his
opening remarks. “Traders who then used this information to buy
stock and make millions of dollars.”  Goffer, 34, who left Galleon to work at Schottenfeld Group
LLC and then founded his own firm, Incremental Capital LLC, went
on trial with his brother, Emanuel Goffer, 32, and Michael Kimelman, 40, both ex-traders at Incremental.  All three men are charged with securities fraud and
conspiracy, stemming from one of three overlapping rings tied to
Galleon, prosecutors said. They face as long as 20 years in
prison if convicted of fraud.  “This man,  Zvi Goffer , was the ringleader of that
scheme,” Fish said, pointing to Goffer. “He paid tens of
thousands of dollars in cash bribes for inside information.”  Passing Tips  Fish told jurors they would hear wiretaps of telephone
calls Goffer made discussing the scheme with his co-defendants
that were secretly recorded by the U.S. He also said the jury
would hear from three cooperating witnesses who were
participants in the scheme, including Brien Santarlas, one of
two former Ropes & Gray LLP lawyers who pleaded guilty to
passing tips to another co-defendant.  Fish said that when Goffer sought to get a job at Galleon,
he passed inside information he had learned about a transaction
involving 3Com Corp. and Axcan Pharma Inc. to Craig Drimal, a
former Galleon trader. Drimal earned more than $6 million on the
deal, Fish said.  “Goffer wanted Galleon management to see that he had
access to inside information,” Fish said. Jurors will hear a
wiretap of Goffer giving the lawyers credit for helping him get
a job at Galleon, he said.  Zvi Goffer’s lawyer, William Barzee, said in his opening
statement to jurors that his client was actually fired by
Rajaratnam for his failure as a trader.  ‘You’re Fired’  “‘Zvi Goffer, you’re fired,’ that’s what  Raj Rajaratnam 
told Zvi Goffer after he went to work at Galleon,” Barzee said.  Barzee said Goffer based trades on research and by speaking
to analysts and listening to rumors prevalent on Wall Street.  “He was like one of those gold prospectors with a tin pan,
searching for gold in a river, and the river was the stream of
information and gossip blogs,” Barzee said. “Zvi Goffer’s job
was to listen to all these rumors and find this one gold nugget
of information.”  Barzee told jurors that the government will play less than
1 percent of the telephone conversations actually recorded by
the U.S. during the investigation. He called his client a
“braggart” and said Zvi Goffer liked to exaggerate what he
knew.  “This kind of exaggeration is a cottage industry on  Wall
Street . On Wall Street this is what people do. They pretend they
have an edge,” he said. “Why? Because if you do, you’re more
likely to invest with them.  ‘It’s Stupid’  “It’s stupid, it’s immoral, it’s probably wrong,” he
said. “But it’s certainly not insider trading and it’s not
illegal. It’s what happens every single day.”  Fish said that at one point, the two Ropes & Gray lawyers
mistakenly saw papers in a room they believed involved the
closing of a deal involving Clear Channel Communications Inc.
and Bain Capital LLC, when instead it was documents in
preparation for a lawsuit over the financing of the deal by six
banks.  Barzee argued this was an example of his client’s ability
to exaggerate what he knew.  “In Clear Channel he lost so much money that Raj
Rajaratnam took him into the conference room and said, ‘You’re
fired,’” Barzee said. “That’s  insider trading ?”  Michael Ross, a lawyer for Emanuel Goffer, told jurors
today that his client had been a successful trader before
joining his brother at Incremental. He said his client had no
way of knowing if the information given to him was improperly
obtained.  “Not everyone who trades stock is a thief or a crook,”
Ross said.  Disposable Phone  Kimelman’s lawyer,  Michael Sommer , told jurors in his
opening statement that his client didn’t use a disposable phone,
never paid for inside information and wasn’t recorded trading on
insider tips.  “Thank God they made all these recordings,” Sommer said
about the government. “There’s not a single recording --
not one -- in which you will hear Michael Kimelman buying stock
on the basis of insider information that came to him.”  The scheme netted at least $20 million, the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission alleged when it filed a related civil
lawsuit.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 