-- 
Goldman Lowers Dollar Forecasts Versus Euro on Weak U.S. Growth Prospects

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-05-19T14:13:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/goldman-lowers-dollar-forecasts-versus-euro-on-weak-u-s-growth-prospects.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the U.S.
bank that lost money from trading on only one day in the first
quarter, cut its dollar forecasts saying growth in the world’s
largest economy is lagging behind other nations.  The greenback will weaken to $1.45 per euro over three
months from an earlier projection of $1.40, analysts led by
 Thomas Stolper  in  London  wrote in a note to clients yesterday
The dollar will decline to $1.50 in six months and $1.55 in a
year, the analysts forecast. They also cut their three-month
target for the currency to 82 yen from 84 yen.  “For the dollar to stabilize or even to rally, investors
need to be convinced of the case for additional long-term
investments in the U.S.,” the Goldman analysts wrote. “With
unemployment still high, fiscal consolidation looming and
continued weakness in the real estate sector, the growth outlook
remains less compelling in the U.S. than in many other regions
or countries.”  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, has dropped 4.9
percent in 2011 on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will lag
behind most other central banks in raising  interest rates . Fed
Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said yesterday
officials may keep policy unchanged until late this year.  The dollar traded at $1.4279 per euro as of 10:10 a.m. in
 New York , having fallen 6.2 percent this year. The currency was
at 81.92 yen, up 1 percent since Dec. 31.  Declining inflation expectations have curbed the need to
begin withdrawing record stimulus from the economy, Bullard said
in an interview yesterday.  ‘Pressure Off’  “It does take some pressure off the Fed,” said Bullard,
who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year. “Market
indicators of inflation have come down. The data has been
softer.”  The Fed has kept its target for overnight lending in a
range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 to sustain the
economic expansion. Central bank rates are 1.25 percent in
Europe, 1 percent in  Canada , 0.5 percent in the U.K. and 4.75
percent in  Australia .  “Interest rate differentials will remain negative for the
dollar,” Stolper said in a conference call with investors
today. “Growth is becoming slightly slower. There’s
decelerating momentum.”  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices over the life of the debt, has narrowed to 2.37
percentage points from 2.67 percentage points on April 11, the
widest in three years.  Spending Cuts  U.S. unemployment has been more than 8 percent since
February 2009. President Barack Obama and lawmakers are debating
how to cut spending, raising concern the economy will suffer as
government support wanes.  The  U.S. economy  grew 2.3 percent in the first quarter,
compared with 2.5 percent in  Europe  and 9.7 percent in  China .  The Fed probably won’t raise borrowing costs until 2013,
Goldman Sachs said in its report.  “There is still considerable downside potential” for the
dollar, the note said. “We therefore are revising our forecasts
to reflect this ongoing trend.”  Goldman Sachs reduced its 12-month prediction for the
dollar to 86 yen from 90 yen, and reduced its target versus the
pound to $1.85 from $1.79.  The company’s first-quarter trading performance was its
best since posting zero days of losses a year ago, according to
a filing the New York-based firm made with the Securities and
Exchange Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  