-- 
Google’s Schmidt Pledges Europe Privacy Controls to Fight ‘Elephant’ Image

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-05-18T22:00:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/google-pledges-europe-privacy-controls-to-fight-elephant-image.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  is trying to rehabilitate
its image in Europe after years of rankling regulators, artists,
publishers and privacy advocates in the region.  The owner of the world’s largest search engine is pledging
increased hiring, more respect for intellectual property and
improved privacy safeguards to win over critics. The efforts
appear to be working, with politicians including French
president Nicolas Sarkozy and German chancellor  Angela Merkel 
softening their stances toward the  Mountain View , California-
based company.  “When an elephant enters a crystal room, you have to be
cautious, and we realize that we’re an elephant now,” Carlo
d’Asaro Biondo, the French-Italian head of Google’s southern
European operations, said in an interview in Paris. The company
had to change, or “long-term, we would have paid for it.”  Europe is home to some of Google’s most loyal customers.
Its search engine had an 88 percent market share in March,
compared to 66 percent in the U.S., where Yahoo! Inc. and
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Bing are stronger competitors, according to
comScore Inc. Governments have been less welcoming, with the
European Union investigating Google’s advertising practices and
Germany threatening a fine over the Street View mapping program.  Chairman  Eric Schmidt  is leading the outreach, appearing at
events in Berlin and the U.K. since stepping down as chief
executive officer in April. At a “Google Zeitgeist” event
outside London yesterday, he said the company has made changes
to ensure privacy.  Reining In Engineers  “We’ve learned to the let the engineers build but not
launch without a long conversation,” which includes consulting
with public policy specialists and advocacy groups, Schmidt
said. “You should be able to delete information about you that
we can control. You should own your data and we should be
transparent.”  In  Germany , Google suspended Street View photography after
giving residents the right to remove their homes from its images
and is planning an “institute for internet and society” in
Berlin, part of an expansion that will see 1,000 European
staffers hired in 2011.  Google has signed agreements in France and seven other
countries to give artists and copyright holders a cut of
revenues from material on YouTube, and is making similar deals
for content on the Google Books project to scan the contents of
the world’s libraries. Sarkozy had warned in 2009 his country
could be “deprived of our heritage” by Google Books and
suggested the government would block the effort.  World View  By being proactive on issues like rights for artists and
homeowners, Google is trying to “avoid a situation where people
get resentful, and governments fill the hole with new laws to
respond,” said Alice Enders, an economist at  London  technology
consultancy Enders Analysis. “It’s no longer sufficient to view
the world from the West Coast of the U.S.”  The most significant challenge may be in Brussels, where
the European Commission is investigating whether Google’s search
results and third-party advertising services discriminate
against competitors like Microsoft. Google has said its
practices are fair, and that it’s cooperating with the
investigation.  If Google is found to have broken European Union rules,
fines could total up to 10 percent of global revenues.  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  was fined more than 1 billion euros ($1.42 billion) in a
2009 antitrust probe.  ‘Positive Relationship’  “Google had to put some water into their wine, as we say
in  France ,” said Hervé Rony, the head of France’s 28,000-strong
SCAM artists’ syndicate, which signed a copyright holders’
agreement with Google in November. “It’s possible now to work
with them, and to have a positive relationship.”  The bond was on display on May 9, when Google invited 250
French artists, writers, and government dignitaries to a dinner
of foie gras, sea bass and Champagne in the Chateau de
Versailles outside Paris. The company is paying for the
restoration of a wing of the Baroque castle, a symbol of French
royal history that dates to the 17th-century reign of Louis XIV.  Google is also opening a “European Cultural Center” this
year near Paris’s Saint-Lazare train station. An exhibition
space will showcase the company’s partnerships with
organizations like the Chateau de Versailles, with adjacent
offices housing Google’s Paris operations, which will grow to
500 staff from the current 250 in the next two years.  Google is courting companies as well as governments. A
program in  Poland  to help small businesses go digital has put
40,000 online for the first time, and is being rolled out in
other European countries.  Skeptical Regulators  Google still faces considerable skepticism from regulators.
Officials in Germany view the company with caution after the
introduction last year of Google Buzz, a social-networking
feature that automatically mined e-mail contacts in its initial
version, Peter Schaar, Germany’s federal commissioner for data
protection, said in an interview.  Another service, Google Analytics, prompted a showdown with
German officials over tracking IP addresses that wasn’t resolved
until “we showed our muscle,” and threatened to fine
participants, said Ulrich Kuehne, a member of the data privacy
bureau in Hamburg, home to Google’s German headquarters.  While disagreements remain between Google and  Europe ’s
governments, communication has improved, company executive
Biondo said. “To me, a big success is being allowed to sit at
the table and talk. I’m not sure we would have been allowed to
sit at the table some years ago.”  Whatever the regulatory challenges, Google is betting its
unique digital brawn will prove essential on a continent that’s
eager to keep up with the U.S. and  Asia  in technology. A French
Senate report on that country’s national book-scanning project
suggested as much last year, recommending that the National
Library team up with Google to speed work. The report’s estimate
of the time required to put collections online without Google’s
help? 375 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  