-- 
Governor Christie Faces Potential $2.3 Billion Bill for Schools, Tunnel

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-05-18T14:33:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/governor-christie-faces-potential-2-3-billion-bill-for-schools-tunnel.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
may face about $2.3 billion in unplanned costs next fiscal year
to pay for schools, Medicaid and his decision to scrap a
commuter-train tunnel to New York.  The first-term Republican warned of “unthinkable” cuts if
the state  Supreme Court  rules that his $1.7 billion of
education-aid reductions are unconstitutional. He may need to
find another $300 million in savings if the U.S. government
rejects his budgeted Medicaid changes and at least $271 million
if he is forced to repay money spent on the canceled tunnel.  Christie isn’t alone in proposing a budget that banks on
cost savings that haven’t been secured. In New York, Governor
 Andrew Cuomo ’s budget assumes he will win union concessions and
Medicaid reductions. Christie may have to choose between
abandoning his no-tax-increase pledge and making deeper cuts
that could hobble state government if those $2.3 billion of
costs materialize, said Daniel Solender, director of municipal-
bond management at Lord Abbett & Co. in  Jersey City .  “He has to balance his budget,” Solender, who oversees
$14 billion, said in a telephone interview. “So far, he’s tried
to avoid doing anything with higher taxes, but with this amount
of money involved, this will make it that much more difficult to
do that.”  Budget Hole  Christie, 48, faced a deficit of as much as $10.5 billion
in crafting his $29.4 billion spending plan for the fiscal year
that begins July 1, according to the Office of Legislative
Services. That gap emerged even after Christie slashed $10
billion of expenses last year to balance his first budget.  The Christie administration got a little leeway yesterday,
when the legislative services office reported that revenue may
exceed his projections by $914 million over two years because of
rising income-tax receipts. Christie’s treasurer, Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff, said the excess may be about $511 million for
that period. The higher forecasts echo revised estimates in
California, where Governor  Jerry Brown  said May 16 that revenue
will be $6.6 billion higher than forecast through June 2012.  “Caution and discipline must temper revenue forecasts,”
Sidamon-Eristoff told lawmakers yesterday. “The state risks
building expectations for higher spending that cannot be
sustained and opens itself to yet another potential  budget
crisis  that would have to be addressed under the worst possible,
emergency situations.”  Fruit Picked  The legislative revenue estimates just for next fiscal year
are $429.6 million above the projections in Christie’s budget.
That’s about one-fourth of the amount he would need if the state
Supreme Court orders him to restore school aid he cut. A ruling
may come before June 30.  “It’s not easy to cut a budget, especially after all of
the low-hanging fruit has been picked,” said  Richard Ciccarone ,
a managing director at McDonnell Investment Management in  Oak
Brook ,  Illinois . “He’s doing some tough things right now, and
some of them may not stick.”  Christie’s budget also proposes saving $300 million by
closing the Medicaid health-care plan for the poor to new
adults, increasing the use of managed care and raising co-
payments. In  New York , Cuomo included $337 million in assumed
Medicaid savings among reductions designed to close a $10
billion budget gap. In both cases, the U.S. government still
must approve changes to the state-federal program.  New Poll  “I’m very concerned not only that we’re not going to get
that money, but I can’t separate what happens to the elderly and
vulnerable from the budget impacts,” Senate Majority Leader
Barbara Buono, a Democrat from Metuchen, said in an interview.  The portion of New Jersey residents who disapprove of
Christie’s job performance climbed 9 percentage points from
February to 49 percent, his highest negative rating since taking
office in January 2010, according to a Monmouth University poll
released today. His approval rating was unchanged at 47 percent,
while only one-fourth said they are satisfied with Christie’s
budget plan.  Another potential cost for Christie is the $271 million
bill he is fighting from the Federal Transit Administration,
which ordered him to repay money spent on the planned tunnel
under the  Hudson River . Christie killed the $8.7 billion project
in October, citing possible cost overruns of as much as $5
billion.  Legal Fight  Christie’s administration has been billed $950,000 so far
from Patton Boggs LLC, the Washington-based law firm it hired in
December to contest the tunnel bill, Paul Wyckoff, a spokesman
for  New Jersey  Transit, said May 17. New Jersey also is being
charged about $52,000 a week in interest by the FTA.  The potential higher costs loom as New Jersey copes with an
April 27 decision by Moody’s Investors Service to downgrade its
general-obligation bonds amid concern the state’s economic
recovery is lagging behind the nation. A lower rating may boost
New Jersey’s borrowing cost by leading investors to ask for
higher  interest rates  to compensate for increased risk.  New Jersey’s budget has more than doubled from $12 billion
in fiscal 1990. Pension, health-care and other fixed expenses
may rise to 30 percent of the state’s budget in eight years,
from the current 13 percent, Moody’s said.  “It’s not just New Jersey, it’s also states like
 California  and Illinois where the size of government has gotten
out of control over the past 20 years,” said Michael Pietronico, who oversees $455 million as chief executive officer
of Miller Tabak Asset Management in New York. “It’s hard for
any one person to change that in just a year or even one term.”  Skipped Payments  Christie cut $1.3 billion from aid to schools and towns,
skipped a $3 billion pension payment and suspended property-tax
rebates to balance the current budget. New Jersey also lost $400
million in education money after Christie’s administration made
an error on an application for a federal grant last year.  The state’s pension deficit increased 18 percent to $53.9
billion as of June 30 as the state failed to make contributions
for most of the past decade. Christie will make a $759 million
payment once lawmakers pass his plan that would have all public
workers pay 30 percent of the cost of their health-insurance
premiums by 2014, Sidamon-Eristoff said.  ‘Draconian’ Cuts  Assemblyman  Louis Greenwald , a Democrat from  Cherry Hill 
who heads the budget committee, said Christie went too far with
spending cuts and has put the state in a dangerous situation.  “If things don’t break his way, there’s not enough there
to cover it,” Greenwald said during a Statehouse interview.  Christie proposed keeping municipal funding unchanged in
his budget for next fiscal year. He said in April he may cut aid
to towns, hospitals and prescription-drug programs if he is
ordered to restore his education-funding cuts.  “People think there have been Draconian cuts before?”
Christie said. “The kinds of things we will have to cut if the
court makes this ruling are unthinkable.”  The governor said he won’t support a Democratic proposal to
reauthorize a tax surcharge on the state’s wealthiest residents.
His refusal may force Christie to make more cuts at the same
time his party is fighting to win control of the Legislature
from Democrats in the November election.  “He’s obviously been intransigent in a number of areas
that have put the state at great risk,” Buono said. “He plays
fast and loose with the numbers and hopes for the best with the
peoples’ money, and that’s not the way you should govern.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Nj Statehouse at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  