-- 
Government Prays a Bigger Sucker Is Out There: Jonathan Weil

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 
2011-05-18T23:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/government-prays-a-bigger-sucker-is-out-there-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
Look through the footnotes in
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s latest annual report, and
you will see a long section analyzing the company’s ability to
use past losses to offset future income-tax obligations.  The gist: AIG’s executives have gazed into their crystal
ball and concluded that the company’s prospects don’t look good.
That dim outlook may help explain why the U.S. Treasury
Department seems so anxious to begin reducing its 92 percent
 stake  in the bailed-out insurance company, after a 36 percent
drop in AIG’s stock price this year.  The disclosures to watch here have to do with an item known
as  deferred-tax assets . Typically these consist of tax-
deductible losses and expenses carried forward from prior
periods. Companies can use these to lower future tax bills.  Under generally accepted accounting principles, such carry-
forwards are valuable only to companies that are profitable and
paying income taxes. If a company doesn’t expect to fully use
these assets, it’s required to record what’s called a valuation
allowance on its balance sheet to reduce their carrying amount.  In AIG’s case, the company has set up a full valuation
allowance against its deferred-tax assets. AIG said it did so
based on management’s conclusion that the assets  “more likely
than not”  won’t be used. Forward-looking indicators don’t get
much more bearish than this.  Here are the numbers: AIG said it had net deferred-tax
assets of $24.5 billion as of Dec. 31, before factoring in the
allowance. With the allowance, which was $25.8 billion, AIG
finished last year with a $1.3 billion net deferred-tax
liability -- in effect, a future tax obligation.  Wipe Out  In other words, the allowance more than wiped out the net
assets. This wasn’t the case a year earlier. At the end of 2009,
AIG showed net deferred-tax assets of $5.9 billion, including
the allowance. AIG hasn’t disclosed what its tax assets were as
of  March 31 , and a company spokesman, Mark Herr, wouldn’t say.  The footnotes also show a breakdown of the different types
of AIG’s carry-forwards on a tax-return basis. For example, as
of Dec. 31, AIG said it had $11.3 billion of net operating loss
carry-forwards that expire from 2028 to 2030. It would need
about $32.3 billion of taxable income from its operations over
20 years to fully reap those benefits, assuming a 35 percent tax
rate. AIG concluded it likely won’t realize any of them.  “The implication is there are significant questions about
future profitability,” says Charles Mulford, an accounting
professor at Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta, who
reviewed AIG’s disclosures at my request. “It should give
investors pause.”  Going Bust  A full allowance is something you normally see only at
companies in huge trouble. Over the past decade, Delta Air
Lines, Bethlehem Steel and General Motors, among others, all
took big charges to earnings to boost their deferred-tax
allowances -- before filing for bankruptcy. Other companies,
such as Citigroup, have drawn criticism for taking the opposite
approach: Even when they were on death’s door, they still hadn’t
recorded any such allowance.  AIG executives lately have been spinning the company’s tax
assets as a good thing. The company is trying to complete a big
stock sale, after all.  During a May 6 conference call with investors, AIG Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  called the company’s deferred
taxes a “source of funds” that the company could use to buy
back stock someday. David Herzog, AIG’s chief financial officer,
referred to the company’s tax assets as “very valuable.” In a
slide-show presentation for investors this month, AIG said it
has “substantial deferred tax assets that are available to
offset future tax obligations.”  No Change  Yet for these assets to be valuable, AIG will need an
opportunity to use them. Chances are it won’t be able to, if
we’re to believe what the company said in its annual report.
That position hasn’t changed. In the  prospectus  it filed May 11
for its stock offering, AIG said it still holds a full valuation
allowance on its balance sheet.  It’s conceivable that AIG’s forecasts might prove too
conservative, reflecting an overabundance of caution. In that
case part of the allowance might be reversed later, boosting net
income. Yet we probably should take management at its word that
the full allowance is needed. This isn’t the kind of stance a
company would adopt unless it had to.  Public Offering  This month AIG and the Treasury Department said they plan
to offer 300 million common shares to the public, two-thirds of
which would come from the government. Most companies that repaid
their taxpayer-bailout funds, such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , did so in cash. Not AIG.  AIG paid back the $47.5 billion that the Treasury injected
into the company by converting its stake into common stock.
Those shares were worth about $51 billion based on AIG’s $30.83
closing price yesterday.  It stands to reason that AIG would have repaid Treasury in
cash if it could have afforded to do so. That its executives, at
least for accounting purposes, hold such a gloomy view of the
insurer’s prospects only reinforces the notion that AIG still is
an unhealthy company. Anyone looking to buy the stock now had
better hope they know something management doesn’t.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  