-- 
Greek Restructuring Rejected by ECB Officials in Clash With EU Politicians

-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-05-18T14:46:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/greek-restructuring-rejected-by-ecb-officials-in-clash-with-eu-politicians.html
European Central Bank officials ruled
out a Greek debt restructuring, clashing with political leaders
over a solution to the sovereign financial crisis.  “A Greek debt restructuring is not the appropriate way
forward -- it would create a catastrophe” because it would
damage the banking system, ECB Executive Board member Juergen Stark said today in Lagonissi,  Greece . Fellow board member
Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said in Milan that “a solution for reducing
debt but not paying for it will not work.”  European Union finance ministers for the first time this
week floated the idea of extending Greece’s debt-repayment
schedule as the nation struggles to meet the terms of last
year’s 110 billion-euro ($156 billion) rescue. EU officials say
that Greece won’t be able to return to markets and sell 27
billion euros of bonds next year as scheduled under the bailout,
leaving them searching for alternatives to avoid a default.  The yield on Greece’s 10-year bond rose 17 basis points
today to 15.8 percent, more than twice the rate at the time of
the bailout a year ago. The country’s two-year bond yields
almost 25 percent.  The cost of insuring the debt of  Europe ’s most-indebted
nations against default rose today on concern they will have to
restructure. Credit-default swaps on Greece surged 66 basis
points to 1,335, Ireland rose 20 to 630 and Portugal jumped 20.5
to 626, according to data provider CMA.  ‘Soft Restructuring’  Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, said a “soft restructuring” is
possible for Greece after the government in Athens takes
additional steps to cut the budget, such as state-asset sales.
He spoke in an interview with  Austria ’s ORF, according to a
transcript posted on the state broadcaster’s website today.  Soft restructuring, also referred to by EU officials as
“reprofiling,” is a “pure extension of maturities of existing
bonds without changing the principal and the  interest rates ,”
German Deputy Finance Minister Joerg Asmussen said in Brussels
yesterday. Such a setup would be designed to avert a chain
reaction of claims linked to credit-default swaps.  Extra Measures  Getting bondholders to voluntarily accept delayed payments
won’t be considered until Greece makes additional budget cuts
and begins asset sales worth 50 billion euros, EU Economic and
Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said in Brussels today.  Deutsche Bank AG and National Bank of Greece SA will advise
the Greek government on asset sales, including extending the
concession of gambling company Opap SA and the sale of a further
stake in it, the Athens-based  Finance Ministry  said in an e-
mailed statement today. Nine Greek banks were retained to advise
on investment options for the country’s real-estate holdings.  “Privatization makes a real difference,” said  Poul Thomsen , head of the IMF’s Greek mission, which is in the
process of reviewing the country’s progress on the bailout
conditions. “If targets can be met, it will make a change to
debt sustainability.”  Stark said any restructuring would undermine the collateral
Greek banks use to gain loans from the ECB and “this holds true
for all kinds of restructuring.”  Bank Capital  “It’s an illusion to think that a debt restructuring or
haircut or rescheduling would help resolve Greece’s problems,”
he said. “A restructuring would wipe out part or all the
capital of the Greek banks.”  Greek banks’ reliance on ECB liquidity dropped for a third
straight month in March to 87.9 billion euros, the country’s
central bank said on May 11. Greece’s government and central
bank will extend 30 billion euros in additional guarantees,
which will be contingent on banks detailing how they will wean
themselves off ECB money.  The consequences of a Greek debt restructuring would be
“dire,” leading to further credit-rating cuts and harming the
country’s banks and economy, ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio 
told reporters today in Brussels.  The Frankfurt-based ECB is also concerned that allowing
Greece to renege on some of its obligations would create similar
expectations for other indebted euro-area nations such as
 Portugal  and Ireland, which followed Greece in accepting
bailouts. The ECB has bought 76 billion euros of bonds of
fiscally stressed countries in the past year and may suffer
along with private investors in any restructuring.  More Time  Still, Greece would have more time to carry out structural
changes if its debt maturities were extended, Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development Secretary-General Jose Angel Gurria said in an interview in Brussels today. “Greece
hasn’t had enough time to implement these steps,” he said.  Greece will detail more than 6 billion euros in spending
cuts and revenue measures to meet the 2011 deficit target of 7.4
percent of gross domestic product over the next few days,
Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said in  Athens  today.  Eighty-five percent of international investors surveyed by
Bloomberg last week said Greece will probably default on its
debt, with majorities predicting the same fate for Ireland and
Portugal. The European Commission said on May 13 that Greece’s
debt will reach 166 percent of gross domestic product next year,
the highest for any country in the euro’s history.  Bini Smaghi said dealing with the public finances of
Greece, Ireland and Portugal is Europe’s “biggest challenge”
in the years ahead.  “Time has been lost talking about how to come up with a
way to reduce the debt, but if we accept this, we’ll jeopardize
all of Europe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Attica at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 