-- 
Greek Debt Restructuring Would Jeopardize Rest of Europe, Bini Smaghi Says

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-05-18T08:49:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/greek-debt-restructuring-would-jeopardize-rest-of-europe-bini-smaghi-says.html
European Central Bank Executive Board
member Lorenzo  Bini Smaghi  rejected any debt restructuring for
nations such as Greece as it would “jeopardize all of  Europe .”  A debt restructuring, whether “hard or soft,” would
require a recapitalization of banks, which would be hard to
carry out in a country that has defaulted, Bini Smaghi said in a
speech in Milan today.  “The state of public finances in Greece, Ireland and
 Portugal  represents the biggest challenge of the coming years,”
he said. “Time has been lost talking about how to come up with
a way to reduce the debt, but if we accept this we’ll jeopardize
all of Europe. A solution for reducing debt but not paying for
it will not work.”  European finance ministers for the first time this week
floated the idea of talks with bondholders over extending
 Greece ’s debt-repayment schedule, saying that last year’s 110
billion-euro ($156 billion) rescue has failed to restore the
country to financial health. Eighty-five percent of
international investors surveyed by Bloomberg last week said
Greece will probably default on its debt, with majorities
predicting the same fate for Ireland and Portugal.  Bini Smaghi’s opposition to restructuring was echoed by
fellow ECB Executive Board member  Juergen Stark , who said in
Greece today it would be a “catastrophe” and undermine the
collateral the nation’s banks use to gain loans from the ECB.  Central Bank Opposition  Central bankers are putting up the most vocal opposition to
restructuring. The Frankfurt-based ECB has bought 76 billion
euros of bonds of fiscally struggling countries in the past year
and would suffer with private investors in any restructuring.  Greece, which under its bailout is due to return to
financial markets next year to sell about 27 billion in bonds,
“must convince its citizens to pay taxes” and “retire at age
65 as everyone else does in the Western world,” Bini Smaghi
said. “Greece in a few years can carry out state-asset sales
equal to 25 percent of gross domestic product.”  Bini Smaghi also said he sees “upward inflation risks”
and the ECB is continuing to monitor the price situation. “We
can’t ignore price tensions just because some countries are in
difficulty. The ECB is helping these countries with liquidity.”  The ECB raised its benchmark for the first time in almost
three years in April to stem rising inflationary pressures.
Euro-area economic growth accelerated to 0.8 percent in the
first quarter from 0.3 percent in the previous three months,
data showed on May 13, when the European Commission also raised
its 2011 inflation forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 