-- 
Li & Fung Names Rockowitz Chief Executive, Driving Up Shares in Hong Kong

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-05-18T09:13:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/li-fung-names-executive-director-bruce-rockowitz-as-ceo.html
Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the biggest supplier
to retailers including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Esprit Holdings
Ltd. (330) , named President Bruce Rockowitz as chief executive officer, 
driving up the company’s stock.  Chairman  Victor Fung  will step down by 2012, to be
replaced by his brother William Fung, the Hong Kong-based
company also said in a statement to the stock exchange today.
“Our focus in the next three years will be on organic growth”
instead of acquisitions, William Fung said.  Li & Fung gained 3.5 percent, the most in six weeks, to
HK$37.30 at the 4 p.m. close of trading in Hong Kong, paring
its loss this year to 17 percent. The outsourcer’s annual
profit has grown about 250 percent in the seven years that
 Rockowitz  has been president and its shares have more than
tripled in value since the end of 2003.  “The stock price gain today is likely to be a combination
of a technical correction and market hopes of increased organic
growth,” said  Matthew Marsden , a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Samsung Securities Co. “Li & Fung has been an underperformer
year-to-date,” said Marsden, who recommends selling the stock.  Three-Year Target  The outsourcer had dropped the most in a year in Hong Kong
trading after reporting on March 24 that last year’s profit
gained 27 percent to HK$4.28 billion ($551 million), missing
analyst estimates. William Fung today said the company needs to
invest in distribution within  Asia , particularly China, to meet
its three-year target of doubling operating profit for its main
business to $1.5 billion by 2013.  “I will beat the three-year plan,” said  Rockowitz , who
has been president of Li & Fung since 2004 and boosted earnings
through acquisitions and supply agreements. The company will
have nine presidents who will report to him, he said. He will
also hold the title of group president.  “The biggest challenge ahead for Li & Fung will be the
economy,” said Gabriel Chan, a Hong Kong-based analyst for
Credit Suisse Group AG who has an “outperform” rating on the
stock. “U.S. economic data are not that perfect. Inflation
could be an issue if it continues to worsen to a point that
affects consumer-end demand.”  Li & Fung's U.S. revenue last year was 65 percent of the
HK$124 billion total.  Front Man  Victor Fung will focus on compliance, risk management and
sustainability after stepping down next year, he said at a
briefing in  Hong Kong  today. He will remain a non-executive
director.  “We are now moving on to really structure the company
properly for the long-term development of the group,” he said.  The billionaires are the biggest shareholders of Li & Fung
and control closely held  Li & Fung Group .  “Bruce Rockowitz has become more and more the front man
for Li & Fung over recent years,” Samsung Securities’ Marsden
said in a phone interview. “The Fung brothers are still the
controlling shareholders and it is sure that they will still be
leading the strategy for the group.”  The supplier of Inditex SA’s Zara and Marks & Spencer Plc
completed 16 purchases and “a number” of outsourcing and
licensing deals last year, some of which weren’t announced,
Rockowitz said in March. Announced deals last year were worth
at least $1.24 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Li & Fung bought out Integrated Distribution Services
Group Ltd. last year to gain a network in  China  and other Asian
nations. The purchase was its biggest in at least the past
decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The three-year plan won’t be easy,” William Fung told
reporters after the company’s annual general meeting in Hong
Kong today. “We have added a strong logistics business through
acquiring IDS. We have also started distributing in China and
Asia. We have confidence in the next three years.”  Li & Fung, founded as a porcelain and silk trader in
southern China in 1906 near the end of the Qing dynasty, also
signed a supply agreement with Wal-Mart last year. The deal may
contribute $2 billion in revenue this year, Rockowitz has said.  Victor and William Fung  ranked  No. 5 on Forbes’ Hong Kong
rich list with an estimated combined wealth of $8.6 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  