-- 
Iberdrola Says Falling Suzlon Energy Turbine Blades Were One-Time Accident

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-05-18T06:33:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/iberdrola-says-falling-suzlon-energy-turbine-blades-a-one-off-accident.html
Iberdrola SA (IBE) , the world’s biggest
renewable energy producer, has found that falling blades from a
 Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL)  generator at a U.S. wind farm was a one-off
accident unrelated to the turbine’s history of cracked blades.  “This type of failure is a singular event,” said an
Iberdrola report, a copy of which was mailed by Suzlon to Bloomberg
News, on a joint investigation by the two companies into the
incident.  Iberdrola suspended operations at the 150-megawatt wind
farm in Rugby,  North Dakota  after blades from a Suzlon S88
turbine fell from their mount, the company said on March 21. The
same model suffered cracked blades starting in 2007, which had
prompted a $100 million global retrofit program by  India ’s
largest maker of windmills for power production.  The accident at Rugby was caused by the failure of a bolt
connecting the rotor assembly to the nacelle, the report said.
Stress may have been put on the bolt because of a misalignment
of the connecting surfaces between the rotor hub and mainshaft
flange, it said.  All 70 turbines and 3,360 bolts were inspected and seven
bolts replaced as a precaution before Iberdrola and Suzlon
agreed the site was safe to return to service, it said.  “Suzlon, who is permanently onsite, will perform
additional checks in conjunction with regular maintenance
activities,” it said.  Suzlon has more than 2,000 sets of S88 turbines operating
worldwide and its global fleet are performing above industry
standards, spending only 3 percent in downtime for maintenance,
the company said in an e-mail.  Suzlon shares plummeted 83 percent between the time it
announced the defect in January 2008 and completed retrofitting
in October 2009 as customers, including Rosemead, California-
based  Edison International (EIX) , canceled orders.  Ahmedabad-based Suzlon, which expects sales this fiscal
year to return to record levels reached before the global
financial crisis, advanced 1.7 percent to 52.15 rupees at 10:52
a.m. local time in Mumbai trading. The benchmark Sensitive Index
of the Bombay Stock Exchange gained 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 