-- 
ICAP Says Profit Rose as Political Turmoil Fueled Volatility

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-05-18T16:25:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/icap-profit-rises-on-mideast-political-turmoil.html
ICAP Plc (IAP) , the biggest broker of
trades between banks, said fiscal full-year earnings jumped 61
percent as turmoil in the Middle East fuelled market volatility.  Net income in the year through March 31 climbed to 187
million pounds ($304 million) from 116 million pounds in the
year-earlier period, the firm said in a statement today. Pretax
profit, ICAP’s preferred benchmark, rose 4 percent to 350
million pounds, in line with the company’s February forecast.  Government efforts to help the economy, combined with
geopolitical turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa spurred
price volatility and trading, ICAP said. Interdealer brokers
such as London-based ICAP act as a go-between for banks that
trade bonds, stocks, currencies, energy and their derivatives.
They profit when prices fluctuate because more traders use the
products they trade.  “We benefited from the strength of our emerging markets
businesses, continuing turbulence in the world’s commodity
markets, significant euro-denominated bond issuance and rising
concerns about higher inflation,” Chief Executive Officer
 Michael Spencer  said in the statement. “The political and
economic uncertainties in the Middle East and North Africa have
contributed to volatility in global financial markets.”  ICAP fell 0.3 percent to 488.9 pence in London trading. The
shares have fallen 8.6 percent this year, paring ICAP’s market
capitalization to about 3.2 billion pounds.  COO Steps Down  Revenue increased 8 percent to 1.74 billion pounds from the
previous year, fuelled by a 35 percent increase in income from
its emerging markets unit and a 22 percent gain from its
commodities division.  Chief Operating Officer Mark Yallop plans to step down
after six years at the firm, ICAP said today. He will remain at
the company until a replacement is named.  ICAP is confident it can continue to grow this year as
volatility continues, Spencer told Bloomberg Television’s “On
The Move” with  Francine Lacqua .  “We clearly are in an environment with lots of
uncertainties,” he said. “The backdrop is very encouraging.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  