-- 
High Earners Not Rich Yet Spend Little to End Federal Reserve’s Easy Money

-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 
2011-05-18T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/high-earners-not-rich-yet-spend-little-in-economy-needing-fed-easy-credit.html
The nearly rich aren’t spending
nearly as much as the wealthiest Americans on luxury brands.  Those earning from $100,000 to $249,999 a year spent 20
percent more in the first quarter on items from Honda Motor Co.
Acuras to  Coach Inc. (COH)  handbags compared with the same period in
2009, according to figures from Unity Marketing Inc. Demand for
 Fiat SpA (F)  Maseratis and Coach’s top-end purses propelled a 41
percent increase by those making even more.  The nearly rich are being constrained by falling
home prices, income gains that lag behind inflation, 9 percent
unemployment and a reluctance to dip into savings after the
recession, according to economist Robert Dye. That helps explain
why the  Federal Reserve  will be inclined to keep monetary policy
accommodative, he said.  “The durability of the spending of this very important
group is a key factor in judging whether the economy has
transitioned from a government-aided recovery into a self-
sustaining expansion,” said Dye, a senior economist at PNC
Financial Services Group Inc. in Pittsburgh.  The housing crisis and recession took a toll on these
households, said Pam Danziger, president of Unity Marketing, a
Stevens, Pennsylvania-based company that tracks luxury spending.
These consumers -- Danziger calls them HENRYs, or high earners
not rich yet -- still feel financially vulnerable, she said.  “In 2006-2007, this group was really spending their
perceived wealth, and now they are spending their real income,”
Danziger said. “They’re behaving in a middle-class sort of way,
and the smart thing to do is to cut off indulgences quickly.”  Share of Spending  HENRYs’ curbed shopping habits are limiting the pace of the
recovery, said Danziger. While they make up about 18 percent of
all households, they account for about 40 percent of  consumer
spending  when combined with the 2 percent of the population in
the ultra-affluent group.  The  unemployment rate  was 9 percent in April, compared with
an average 5.3 percent during the economic expansion that ended
in December 2007, according to the Labor Department. It reached
a 26-year high of 10.1 percent in October 2009.  Home values in 20 U.S. cities were down 33 percent in
February from the record reached in July 2006, according to
figures from S&P/Case-Shiller.  Even as the labor market improves, the weak housing market
and high  oil prices  are among factors “holding the recovery
back,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said April 27 in his first
regular press conference. “The substantial ongoing slack in the
labor market and the relatively slow pace of improvement remain
important reasons that the Committee continues to maintain a
highly accommodative monetary policy.”  Smaller Gains  HENRYs purchased $14,241 worth of  luxury goods  on average
across 22 categories in the first quarter, up about $2,400 from
the same period in 2009, according to Unity Marketing’s data.
The wealthiest consumers spent $56,534, about $16,000 more.  The highest-income shoppers are insulated from rising food
and fuel prices by gains in their financial portfolios, said
David Schick, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has climbed 96 percent
since reaching an almost 13-year low on March 9, 2009, at the
depths of the recession.  The S&P Retail Exchange-Traded Fund has risen by 49 percent
since Dec. 31, 2009, while the S&P 500 ETF has increased 20
percent over the same time period.  Revenue for luxury retailers like Coach and  Tiffany & Co. (TIF) 
is growing because their primary customer base can still afford
to splurge even as it costs more to buy groceries and fill gas
tanks, Schick said.  ‘De-Linking’  “Very robust sales numbers for Coach and Tiffany’s show
that de-linking, where food and fuel inflation is just not as
significant,” he said.  Net sales for Coach increased 14 percent in the quarter
ended April 2 from the same time last year, while Tiffany’s
worldwide net rose 12 percent in the period ended Jan. 31.  Handbag sales at different price points for New York-based
Coach show “bifurcation” within its customer base, according
to Daniela Nedialkova, an analyst with Atlantic Equities LLP in
 London . Coach’s most expensive purses, priced at $400 or more,
contributed 18 percent to net sales in the third quarter, up
from 10 percent the prior year, she said.  At  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN) , more expensive merchandise has
outperformed the rest of the store, increasing the company’s
average price point, Erik Nordstrom, the Seattle-based
department store’s executive vice president, said in a May 12
conference call with analysts.  No Discounts  Full-price selling for Nordstrom is now back at pre-
recession levels, Nedialkova wrote in a May 13 report.  Car sales also indicate more resilience among the
wealthiest consumers, according to data collected by Schick of
Stifel Nicolaus. Unit purchases of “ultra-luxury” cars like a
Maserati, which costs more than $85,000, climbed 24 percent in
April from last year. Demand for “luxury” autos like Acuras
that cost between $35,000 and $85,000 rose 9 percent.  Delaying the purchase of a new vehicle was just one
sacrifice HENRYs made after overextending themselves in the
past, PNC’s Dye said.  “This is a different type of market where consumers can’t
spend ahead of themselves,” leading to a tenuous economic
recovery, Dye said. “We’re seeing a consumer who can keep pace
with the economy right now, but really can’t drive the economy
forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  