-- 
Higher Doses of Pfizer Alzheimer’s Drug Trigger Ban Request

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-05-18T15:01:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/higher-doses-of-pfizer-alzheimer-s-drug-targeted-in-ban-request.html
Higher doses of an Alzheimer’s drug
sold by Eisai Co. and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  endanger patients and don’t
enhance the treatment’s effectiveness, according to a consumer
group that wants the regimen banned.  Public Citizen  of  Washington  petitioned the  Food and Drug
Administration  today to remove the 23 milligram dose of Aricept
to treat moderate to severe Alzheimer’s from the U.S. market.
The nonprofit organization has filed 34 petitions to ban drugs,
22 of which are off the market, said  Sidney Wolfe , the director
of health research.  U.S. regulators approved a 23 milligram dose in July, four
months before a patent on Aricept’s 10 milligram dose expired.
Patients taking the larger amount had more side effects than the
10 milligram level, including nausea, vomiting and
gastrointestinal bleeding, according to the companies’ website.  “Eisai, Pfizer knew the patent was going to expire and
since it was the leading Alzheimer’s drug, they wanted to figure
out a way to retain their leading share,” Wolfe said. Users are
“getting something that’s gratuitously extra toxic,” he said.  As many as 5.1 million Americans may have Alzheimer’s, the
most common form of dementia in older people, according to the
U.S. National Institutes of Health. While there’s no cure, drugs
such as Aricept can ease symptoms.  The approval of the 23 milligram Aricept was based on data
from a study of more than 1,400 patients with moderate to severe
Alzheimer’s, said Raul Damas, a Pfizer spokesman. “It’s
important for caregivers to have regular conversations with the
patients’ health-care provider to discuss any new behavior or
concerns and also reassess the patients’ treatment,” he said.  Prescriptions Decline  Thomas Finucane, a professor in the gerontology and
geriatric medicine division at the  Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine  in Baltimore also signed the petition.  Aricept prescriptions fell to 91,000 in March from 914,000
after the patent expired,  Public Citizen  said. Aricept accounted
for $417 million of New York-based Pfizer’s sales last year and
$323 million of Tokyo-based Eisai’s sales, data Bloomberg
compiled show. Aricept is Eisai’s top-selling treatment.  The 23 milligram dose of Aricept showed improvement over
the 10 milligram amount on cognitive symptoms, though it didn’t
show improvement on overall patient functioning, the companies
said on the drug’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 