-- 
Miliband Urges Cameron to Fire Justice Secretary Clarke Over Rape Comments

-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 
2011-05-18T11:32:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/miliband-urges-cameron-to-fire-justice-secretary-clarke-over-rape-comments.html
U.K. opposition leader  Ed Miliband 
called on Prime Minister  David Cameron  to fire Justice Secretary
Ken Clarke over comments he made about plans to reduce sentences
for rapists who plead guilty at an early stage.  Clarke was criticized today by a rape victim who broke down
in tears on a radio show over his proposals. The unnamed woman
caller on BBC Radio 5 said she suffered two years of trauma
before her attacker pleaded guilty and told Clarke his plans are
a “disaster.”  “This morning the justice secretary was on the radio
suggesting there was ‘serious rape’ and other types of rape,”
Miliband told Cameron at the prime minister’s weekly question-
and-answer session in Parliament in  London . “The justice
secretary should not be in his post by the end of today.”  Clarke defended his proposals, which could see rapists
having their sentences halved if they plead guilty before a case
goes to trial. That may mean a sex attacker could serve as
little as 15 months in jail.  “The reason for giving a discount for pleading guilty is
so the victim doesn’t have to be put through the ordeal again,”
Clarke told the radio show. “We’ll give you credit if you put
your hands up, stop messing about and don’t make it worse for
the victim.”  The crying woman told Clarke: “I wouldn’t wish what I went
through, fighting the criminal-justice system for 688 days, on
my worst enemy. I’d gone through the trauma of it, for the 688
days and then on that 688th day he pleads guilty and gets out
early.”  Clarke’s radio comments caused a scrum of reporters to ask
him to clarify his position. Appearing on BBC News television
later, he said the media had made a “parody of my proposals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 