-- 
Millennial Media Is Said to Talk With Banks About IPO as Mobile Ads Surge

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 
2011-05-18T19:19:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/millennial-media-is-said-to-talk-with-banks-about-ipo-as-mobile-ads-surge.html
Millennial Media Inc., the third-
largest U.S. mobile-advertising company, is talking to bankers
about a potential initial public offering, according to two
people with knowledge of the discussions.  The IPO may come later this year or in early 2012, valuing
the company at $700 million to $1 billion, said one of the
people, who requested anonymity because the plans haven’t been
made public.  Baltimore-based Millennial  also could be a takeover
target, the two people said.  Millennial makes money by helping advertisers find space on
mobile devices, such as smartphones. It’s increasing its market
share in the industry, even as it vies with technology giants
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Millennial accounted for 6.8 percent
of mobile-ad revenue last year, up from 5.4 percent in 2009,
according to research firm IDC. The company has carved out a
niche by serving ads to different manufacturers’ phones and
offering an alternative to the larger ad networks.  “Millennial has done surprisingly well,” said Karsten Weide, an analyst at Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC. “One
attraction is that they are independent and platform-agnostic.”  The total U.S. mobile-ad market generated $877 million in
2010, IDC estimates. Google, the market leader, solidified its
standing last year, when it bought mobile advertising network
AdMob for about $700 million. Apple, which ranks second, made
its own inroads by purchasing the Quattro Wireless ad network
for an undisclosed sum in 2010.  Microsoft Talks  Millennial previously held talks with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  about
an acquisition, according to two people familiar with the
matter. There are no current discussions between the two
companies, the people said.  Millennial is working with 20 of the world’s top 25
advertisers, Chief Executive Officer Paul Palmieri said in an
interview. More than 94 percent of customers run repeat
campaigns through Millennial, he said. Palmieri declined to
comment on the company going public.  As the mobile ad market heats up, Millennial’s valuation
could exceed $1 billion, said Tom Taulli, an independent IPO
expert.  Millennial’s  backers  include Charles River Ventures,
Columbia Capital, Bessemer Venture Partners, Acta Wireless and
New Enterprise Associates Inc. On May 12, the company announced
that  BroadSoft Inc. (BSFT)  Chief Financial Officer Jim Tholen had
joined its board. He helped guide BroadSoft to an IPO last year.  Fast Ascent  “As they continue this rapid growth, I can be helpful
strategically,” Tholen said in an interview. “Their ascent is
pretty impressive.”  Millennial, which doesn’t provide financial results,
expects to more than double its revenue this year, Palmieri
said. The company also is expanding beyond  Europe  and the U.S. A
new team based in  Singapore  will seek sales in such countries as
Indonesia, Malaysia and  India , Palmieri said.  Another focus: video advertising. Those ads currently
contribute between 5 percent and 7 percent of revenue, Palmieri
said. By year-end, that percentage should rise to as much as 18
percent, he said. Video ads typically sell for about 2 1/2 times
more than regular mobile ads, he said.  “It’s going to have a huge revenue impact,” Palmieri
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York, at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles@bloomberg.net  