-- 
India Needs to Curb Inflation to Boost Growth, RBI Governor Subbarao Says

-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 
2011-05-18T15:29:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/india-needs-to-curb-inflation-to-boost-growth-rbi-governor-subbarao-says.html
India ’s inflation rate, which has
remained above 8 percent for 16 months, is high and needs to be
curbed to boost economic growth,  Reserve Bank  of India Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao said today.  “Inflation is high and we need to bring it down,”
Subbarao told reporters in northeastern city of Agartala. Lower
prices are needed “to see that growth accelerates.”  India’s inflation was faster than estimated in April and is
expected to rise further after the government raised gasoline
prices last week. The central bank has pledged to continue the
fight against inflation after boosting borrowing costs this
month for the ninth time since mid-March 2010, the fastest pace
of rate increases among major Asian economies.  Subbarao’s comments send “a clear message that the central
bank isn’t over with hiking  interest rates ,” said Shubhada Rao,
chief economist at Mumbai-based Yes Bank Ltd. “The inflation
rate is nowhere near the RBI’s comfort zone.”  The wholesale-price index rose 8.66 percent in April from a
year earlier, the commerce ministry said in a statement this
week. The median of 19 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was
for an 8.5 percent climb.  Kaushik Basu, chief economic adviser to India’s finance
ministry, today said inflation was “unacceptably high” and
measures to curb price rise will aid long-term growth in  Asia ’s
third-largest economy.  ‘Elevated Level’  The central bank said on May 3 inflation will stay at an
“elevated level” until September after it raised the
repurchase rate by half a percentage point to 7.25 percent.
India has been joined by other Asian economies such as  China  and
 South Korea  in extending rate increases as the region fights
price pressures spurred by elevated oil and food costs.  India increased the cost of gasoline by as much as 8.5
percent last week, the biggest rise in three years, triggering
protests by the main opposition party. Global crude  oil prices 
have gained about 42 percent in the past 12 months. The country
imports almost three-quarters of the oil it uses from overseas.  Monetary tightening in India will slow growth this year and
help ease inflation to 6 percent “with an upward bias” by
March 31, 2012, Subbarao said on May 3. India’s economy may
expand “around 8 percent” in the year through March from 8.6
percent in the previous 12 months, he estimated.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  