-- 
GVK Said to be in Talks to Borrow Up to $850 Million to Buy Hancock Mines

-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 
2011-05-19T07:11:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/india-s-gvk-said-in-talks-to-borrow-up-to-850-million-for-hancock-mines.html
GVK Power & Infrastructure Ltd. (GVKP) , a
builder of airports and utilities controlled by Indian
billionaire GV Krishna Reddy, is in talks to borrow as much as
$850 million to fund the purchase of two  Hancock Prospecting Pty 
coal mines, said two people with knowledge of the negotiations.  GVK will use the money to pay Hancock $500 million for
equity in the mines, and another $350 million as compensation
for costs incurred by the Australian company for running them,
the people said, asking not to be identified because the
discussions are private.  GVK is seeking overseas coal supplies to help fuel power
plants at home after its shares fell 45 percent in Mumbai over
the past year. The Indian utilities company will pay about $1.5
billion in total for Hancock’s Alpha Coal and  Kevin’s Corner 
mines, with the balance to be paid in the next few years, two
people familiar with the matter said April 6. GVK is in talks
with investors including 3i Group Plc and Actis LLP about
helping to finance the acquisition, one of the people said.  “The company is showing over-enthusiasm, but it is backed
by India’s growing confidence globally,” said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , chief strategist at SMC Wealth Management Ltd. “If
India and its power projects grow as anticipated, this debt will
not be a problem unless there is a slowdown in the project.”  While the new loan would increase a debt to equity ratio
that stood at 131 percent in March 2010, the investment will
likely pay off for GVK as coal is expected to account for the
bulk of  India ’s plan to add 100,000 megawatts of production
capacity by 2017, said Thunuguntla.  Borrowing Cost  Banks may charge GVK about 425 basis points above the
London interbank offered rate, or Libor, according to one of the
people. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. Manish Kalghatgi,
a spokesman for GVK based in Bangalore, declined to comment.  3i India Infrastructure Fund has invested 8 billion rupees
($177 million) in GVK Energy Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of
GVK Power. Actis Infrastructure India PCC Ltd. and an affiliate
of the Government of Singapore Investment Corp. have each
invested 3.49 billion rupees.  Hancock is owned by  Gina Rinehart , the first woman to top
Forbes Asia’s list of  Australia ’s richest people. The 56-year
old widow is the daughter of Lang Hancock, the man who
discovered the mines that made Australia the world’s biggest
iron ore exporter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  