-- 
Indian Rupee Strengthens on Yield Advantage, Exporter Purchases

-- B y   A n i l   V a r m a   a n d   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 
2011-05-18T12:31:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/indian-rupee-strengthens-on-yield-advantage-exporter-purchases.html
India ’s rupee gained, rebounding from
a two-month low, on speculation rising relative yields on local
bonds will spur overseas funds to boost investments.  Foreign investors bought $3.3 billion of rupee-denominated
government and corporate notes this year, bolstering holdings to
an all-time high of $21.1 billion on May 10, according to data
published by the  Securities & Exchange Board of India . The extra
yield on 10-year rupee debt over similar-dated  U.S. Treasuries 
has jumped 67 basis points this quarter to 519 as the central
bank accelerated interest-rate increases to cool inflation.  “I like the yield advantage on the  Indian rupee ,” said
Sergey Dergachev, who helps manage the equivalent of $9.6
billion of emerging-market debt at Union Investment Privatfonds
in  Frankfurt . “The RBI accelerating its rate hikes makes it
even more attractive. We remain invested in the rupee.”  The rupee appreciated 0.2 percent to 45.055 per dollar from
May 16 at the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Indian financial markets were closed yesterday for
a public holiday. The currency touched 45.185 on May 16, the
weakest level since March 17.  India’s higher yields, combined with the second-fastest
economic growth among major economies, are prompting strategists
to predict the rupee will provide the world’s best returns after
the Peruvian sol. The currency will earn 18.5 percent by the end
of 2012, including interest income, compared with 19.3 percent
from the sol, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The $1.3 trillion South Asian economy has expanded an
average 8.6 percent a year since 2005, government data show.  Exporters Buy  The rupee also rose as local exporters bought the currency
to take advantage of a favorable  exchange rate  after it slid 1.8
percent this month, said Vikas Babu, a currency trader at state-
owned  Andhra Bank . A weaker local currency boosts the value of
overseas earnings.  “The currency is looking for some cues,” Mumbai-based
Babu said. “The bias is toward weakening.”  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 45.77 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations of 45.87
on May 16. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a
set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anil Varma in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net ; 
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  