-- 
India Could Replace Gasoline Imports With Ethanol by 2020, Study Shows

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-05-18T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/india-could-replace-gasoline-imports-with-ethanol-by-2020-study-shows.html
India , the world’s second fastest-
growing automobile market, could replace gasoline imports with
ethanol by 2020 if policies and infrastructure are put in place
to promote the green fuel, a report said.  India can potentially harvest enough bagasse, rice husk and
sugar waste to produce as much as 50 billion liters (13 billion
gallons) of ethanol without relying on food crops or disrupting
agricultural land-use, according to a report today by Renewable
Energy Minister Farooq Abdullah.  That would be enough to replace 86 percent of gasoline
demand and remove the need for imports, according to the report,
done by Bloomberg New Energy Finance for Novozymes A/S, the
world’s biggest maker of industrial enzymes.  Gasoline consumption is set to surge in  Asia ’s third-
largest energy consumer as rising incomes spur demand for
vehicles. Two-thirds of the country’s gasoline demand comes from
two-wheeled passenger vehicles such as motorcycles, the report
said.  If India doesn’t find alternatives, it could spend about
$19.4 billion on gasoline imports by 2020, said the report,
which assumes a crude oil price of $100 a barrel.  In contrast, the development of an ethanol industry could
generate up to $20 billion of yearly revenue plus $1.6 billion
in ethanol exports, it estimated.  Barriers include the lack of infrastructure to collect and
transport agricultural residue and no clear targets or penalties
from the government to promote development, it said.  Bloomberg New Energy Finance, which provides data and
research, is owned by Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg
News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 