-- 
LinkedIn Retains Most Gains Second Day After Surging in Initial Offering

-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-05-20T20:58:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/linkedin-raises-352-8-million-in-ipo-as-shares-priced-at-top-end-of-range.html
LinkedIn Corp. held most of its gains
after more than doubling yesterday in its debut, leaving
investors in the first initial public offering of a major U.S.
social-media site with a 107 percent gain.  The shares climbed as much as 14 percent before a late
retreat left them down 1.2 percent for the day at $93.09 on the
on the New York Stock Exchange. The stock, traded under the
ticker LNKD, surged 109 percent to $94.25 yesterday.
 after surging 109 percent yesterday. The ticker is LNKD.  Based on today’s closing price, LinkedIn’s market value is
$8.8 billion, or about 23 times 2011 revenue, assuming first-
quarter sales are matched the rest of the year. Facebook Inc.,
the world’s largest social network, would be valued at about $94
billion using the same multiple. The gains bode well for
Internet companies that have put off going public while honing
efforts to make money, and they may brighten prospects for the
venture capital industry, which lost money amid an IPO drought.  “We knew this was going to be a super hot IPO and gives us
further evidence of the enormous appetite for this wave of next-
generation Internet companies,”  Paul Bard , director of research
at Renaissance Capital LLC, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. “You are going to see more companies go public that
will try to capitalize on this wave of interest.”  LinkedIn’s debut reflects comeback potential for IPOs for
startups funded by venture capitalists. U.S. venture-backed
companies raised $1.38 billion in IPOs in the first quarter, a
47 percent increase from a year earlier, according to the
 National Venture Capital Association . In the first quarter of
2009 there were no venture-backed IPOs.  Overvalued  There’s mounting concern that some technology shares may be
overvalued as investors shake off their apprehension from the
2007-2009 collapse of the credit markets, former U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Lawrence Summers  said at a conference today in
 Shanghai .  “Who could have imagined that the concern with respect to
any American financial asset, just two years after the crisis,
would be a bubble?” Summers, now a professor at  Harvard
University , said at a conference today in Shanghai. “Yet that
concern is increasingly raised with respect to American
technology, with respect to certain other American assets.”  LinkedIn may not be able to sustain the market value gained
yesterday, said  Dan Veru , chief investment officer at  Fort Lee ,
New Jersey-based Palisade Capital Management LLC, which oversees
$3.8 billion and bought LinkedIn in the IPO.  ‘Exceeded Expectations’  “At $100 a share, we would not be buyers,” Veru said.
“It far exceeded our expectations for what it would do in the
first day of trading. It would be amazing to me, with the
revenue base it has, if it maintains a $10 billion market cap.”  LinkedIn’s performance yesterday is reminiscent of some of
hottest stocks in the dot-com boom. Yahoo! Inc. rose 154 percent
on its first trading day in 1996, a year after Netscape
Communications Corp. more than doubled in its debut.  More recently, Google Inc. rose 18 percent in its 2004 IPO,
and  VMware Inc. (VMW)  surged 76 percent when it started trading in
2007.  “The valuation for LinkedIn is rich,” said Michael Moe,
chief investment officer of GSV Capital Management in Woodside,
 California , in a televised interview with “Bloomberg West.”
“To earn the valuation, it has to continue to grow very, very
fast.”  Qihoo 360 Technology Co., the Beijing-based provider of
computer anti-virus products and Web browsers, had the biggest
first-day gain among U.S. IPOs this year, surging 134 percent
after raising $175.6 million in its offering.  Backers Gain  LinkedIn’s backers, which have made more than $100 million
in investments in  Mountain View , California-based LinkedIn since
2003, stand to gain.  Sequoia Capital  has amassed a holding now
worth $1.59 billion, and  Greylock Partners  has a $1.32 billion
stake, based on yesterday’s close.  Reid Hoffman , LinkedIn’s
founder and chairman and its biggest shareholder, holds $1.8
billion and Bessemer Venture Partners has a stake worth $431.5
million.  Members of LinkedIn use the site to search for jobs,
recruit employees and find industry experts. While users can
create personal profiles for free, paid subscriptions were
introduced in 2005, giving recruiters more access to candidates
and providing professionals ways to communicate with one
another.  While LinkedIn is often compared to social networks such as
Facebook and Twitter Inc., which depend on advertising to
consumers, the company said in its prospectus that a
“substantial portion” of revenue comes from a business that’s
comparable to the software-as-a-service model. That’s where
companies deliver software over the Internet, a market expected
to climb 16 percent this year to $10.7 billion, according to
Gartner Inc., a research firm in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Business Software  SaaS companies, including Salesforce.com Inc.,  NetSuite
Inc. (N)  and  SuccessFactors Inc. (SFSF) , sell subscriptions over the
Internet rather than long-term licenses like traditional
business-software companies.  LinkedIn’s hiring solutions business, targeted at
recruiters, accounted for about half of LinkedIn’s $93.9 million
in first-quarter revenue, with 30 percent coming from ads.
LinkedIn’s net income rose 14 percent to $2.08 million in the
first quarter as sales more than doubled.  LinkedIn sold 7.84 million shares at $45 each this week.
The company raised the proposed price range for its initial
offering on May 17, to $42 to $45 a share, from $32 to $35. The
sale raised $352.8 million.  Proceeds from the offering will be used to fund existing
operations and expand the business, including possibly buying
other companies or technologies, LinkedIn said in a filing with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Including an
overallotment option for underwriters to buy an additional 1.18
million shares, LinkedIn may raise as much as $405.7 million.  Morgan Stanley  Morgan Stanley, Bank of America Corp. and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  led the offering.  About 62 percent of the shares in the offering were being
sold by LinkedIn, according to the prospectus. Other sellers
include a venture capital affiliate of Bain Capital LLC, McGraw-
Hill Cos.,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and founder and Chairman
Reid Hoffman.  Venture capital backers Sequoia Capital, Greylock Partners
and Bessemer Venture Partners aren’t selling shares, according
to the filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net 
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  