-- 
Institutional Investors Beat REITs as Top Buyers of U.S. Office Properties

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-05-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/institutional-investors-edge-out-reits-as-top-buyers-of-offices.html
Institutional investors overtook
publicly traded real estate investment trusts as the largest
acquirers of U.S. office buildings in the first quarter, a sign
of widening demand that may push property prices up.  Buyers including pension funds, insurance companies and
sovereign-wealth funds added a net $1.39 billion to their
office-building holdings in the first quarter, compared with
$1.1 billion for REITs, according to data from  CoStar Group Inc. (CSGP) 
Their shift to acquisitions signals that, after being net
sellers last year, they are beginning to expand their holdings.  “Hopefully that means that they’re down to their core
portfolio and they’re going to start adding to it,” Christopher
Macke, senior real estate strategist at Washington-based CoStar,
said in a telephone interview. “Assuming that the institutional
folks continue their net buying and the REITs continue that as
well, that should portend a positive direction for pricing in
commercial real estate.”  Demand for commercial real estate is rising as the economy
improves and yields remain low for fixed-income investment
alternatives. Institutions were larger purchasers of office
buildings than REITs were in three of four quarters last year,
Macke said. They also were bigger sellers.  Investment-grade commercial property prices rose 2.2
percent in March from a year earlier, CoStar data show. Office
sales more than doubled in the first quarter from a year earlier
to $10.2 billion, according to Real Capital Analytics Inc., a
New York-based real-estate data provider.  JPMorgan Chase  One of the largest deals so far this year included an
institutional investor. The investment-management unit of
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , along with developer Steve Samuels, bought
 Boston ’s Landmark Center, an office and retail complex near
Fenway Park, for $530.5 million.  “Investors right now have a strong interest in core real
estate,” said Roy Rendino, chief executive officer of the
Chicago-based  National Council of Real Estate Investment
Fiduciaries , a trade group for institutional investors.  Credit is more available to real estate investors as
insurers and other financiers increase the amount of money
devoted to mortgages. Commercial and apartment-building loan
origination surged to $118.8 billion last year, up 44 percent
from 2009,  according  to an April 25 report by the Washington-
based  Mortgage Bankers Association .  CMBS Comes Back  The revival of the commercial mortgage-backed  securities
market  also is boosting credit availability. Sales of new
commercial mortgage bonds are surging as investors seek higher
yields with the  Federal Reserve  holding its benchmark interest
rate at record lows. Wall Street firms have arranged $8.6
billion of bonds tied to property loans in 2011, compared with
$11.5 billion during all of last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Issuance may climb to $45 billion this year, according to
JPMorgan. It plummeted to $3.4 billion in 2009, during the
financial crisis, from a record $234 billion in 2007, Bloomberg
data show.  Purchases of office, retail and other real estate by REITs
may slow this year as prices for some properties surge, Craig Guttenplan, senior REIT analyst at CreditSights Inc. in  London ,
said in a telephone interview.  “A lot of them are going to be net sellers just because of
where valuations are,” he said.  The proceeds from sales by REITs may be used for
redeveloping properties or construction, Guttenplan said.  Debt, Stock Offerings  REITs raised $22 billion from debt and stock offerings in
the first quarter, the highest total in data going back to 1988,
according to the  National Association of Real Estate Investment
Trusts . About $7.7 billion of that total was raised by  Health
Care REIT Inc. (HCN)  and  HCP Inc. (HCP)  and was related mainly to
acquisitions.  REITs are facing increased competition for office
properties, mainly in such major markets as  New York  and
 Washington , which is resulting in higher prices, Macke said.  Some pension funds are increasing their allocations to real
estate as they search for higher yields and hedges against
inflation, said Kenneth Rosen, chairman of Berkeley, California-
based Rosen Real Estate Securities LLC.  “We think it’s a good time to do it,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  