-- 
Insurers Pair Long-Term Care With Life to Entice Older Buyers

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 
2011-05-18T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/insurers-pair-long-term-care-with-life-to-entice-older-buyers.html
Pearl Neier, 85, said she decided
against long-term-care insurance after hearing about the
policies from  AARP , the Washington-based group that lobbies for
older Americans.  “It was much too high for me,” said Neier, sitting in the
sunny dining room of the VillageCare retirement home on West
46th Street, which overlooks the Hell’s Kitchen neighborhood of
New York. Neier said her room and board is covered by Medicaid
and Social Security.  The  insurance industry , which has struggled to persuade
skeptics like Neier that they need the policies, has turned to
selling combination products that blend long-term-care with
traditional life insurance. The policies generally are built
using universal life, which has an investment component, and may
pay out the death benefit early to help pay for care.  Sales of the hybrid policies, which can cost $100,000 for a
maximum monthly benefit of $5,000 and come with sales
commissions as high as 8 percent, more than doubled in 2010 at
 Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW)  Sales of traditional individual long-
term-care insurance industrywide dropped 23 percent over the
five years ended Dec. 31, by contrast.  “The problem with long-term-care insurance is that the
wealthy don’t need it, because they can afford their own care,
and the middle class can’t afford it,” said Peter Katt, a fee-
only  life-insurance  adviser based in Mattawan,  Michigan . “It’s
a small sliver of the population who should even consider it.”  Using Your Money  The contracts generally are designed so that payments for
care come dollar-for-dollar out of the death benefit, meaning
that a buyer who taps a policy for long-term-care will pass a
reduced or no death benefit on to heirs.  “If you give a company $100,000 today then you’ll
basically be spending your own money for the first two years of
claims,” said John Ryan, an insurance broker and founder of
Greenwood Village, Colorado-based  Ryan Insurance Strategy
Consultants . The median stay in a nursing home among patients
who pass away there is five months, according to research by
Alex Smith, assistant professor of medicine with the University
of  California ,  San Francisco , and Anne Kelly, a social worker
who was a student at the  University of California , Berkeley, at
the time of conducting the research.  The combination insurance may be an easier sell to
consumers skeptical of paying for insurance they may never use,
said Brian Peterson, president of  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based  NextGen Advisor , which works with financial advisers in
evaluating policies. Some insurers, such as Radnor,
Pennsylvania-based  Lincoln National Corp. (LNC) , are guaranteeing that
buyers can get their premiums back at any time before tapping
the benefit.  Money Back  “Most people who buy hybrid insurance are not buying it
because they want life insurance, they’re buying it because they
need long-term-care insurance and the sales pitch that you can
get your money back no matter what is pretty compelling,” said
Ryan, the Colorado broker.  Traditional long-term-care insurance generally reimburses
certain expenses or pays a daily cash benefit for those who
require assistance with day-to-day tasks such as dressing and
bathing.  About 69 percent of Americans turning 65 today will need
long-term care at some point in their lives, according to
 LeadingAge , a Washington-based lobbying group that represents
nursing and retirement homes. The number of Americans aged 65 or
older may more than double by 2040 to about 81 million, from an
estimated 40 million in 2010, according to the U.S. Census
Bureau.  Cost of Care  The median cost of a private room in a nursing home is $213
a day or about $6,500 a month, according to a May  survey  by
Richmond, Virginia-based Genworth. Assisted-living facilities,
which unlike nursing homes generally don’t have round-the-clock
skilled nursing staff, charged an average of more than $3,000 a
month, according to Genworth.  “A lot of people become convinced, through scare tactics
or statistics or whatever the case may be, that they need long-
term-care insurance. Then they start looking at policies, which
may be prohibitively expensive,” said Scott Witt, founder of
New Berlin, Wisconsin-based  Witt Actuarial Services , a fee-only
insurance adviser.  A traditional long-term-care policy from Springfield,
Massachusetts-based Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co. that
pays a maximum of $200 a day in benefits over 10 years, with an
automatic 5 percent annual inflation adjustment, would cost a
55-year-old couple about $6,700 annually or about $590 per
month, according to a quote obtained in April by Katt and
confirmed with the company.  Raising Premiums  Neier, the retirement home resident, said she hadn’t
thought about the prospect of paying for long-term care until
her 70s, when she looked into the policies. She had been paying
for her stay at VillageCare, where apartments start at $3,600 a
month including some meals, with the proceeds from the sale of
her home in Queens,  New York , until this year when she qualified
for Medicaid, she said.  Companies that underwrite long-term-care policies have had
to raise premiums or stop selling the insurance altogether in
recent years. That’s because they overestimated lapse rates, or
the number of people who allow their policies to lapse, meaning
the companies have had to pay out more in benefits than they
anticipated, said Carl Friedrich, a principal and consulting
actuary for Seattle-based Milliman Inc., a benefits consultant.  New York-based  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer,
stopped accepting applications for new long-term-care policies
at the end of 2010. In February New York-based Guardian Life
Insurance Co. of America said it would stop writing new long-
term-care insurance policies by the end of the year. Munich-
based  Allianz SE (ALV)  has sold no new long-term-care insurance since
2009.  Sales Are Up  In 2010 John Hancock Financial Services, a unit of Toronto-
based  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , filed for permission with state
regulators to raise premiums for some of its long-term-care
policies by an average of 40 percent. So far 15 states have
approved increases. In 2007 Genworth announced it would raise
premiums by 8 percent to 12 percent on many of its policies, and
in October announced a further 18 percent premium increase for
some of its policies.  “Sales have ramped up,” for combination policies during
the same period, said Milliman’s Friedrich, who’s based in Lake
Forest,  Illinois . Sales of hybrid life and long-term-care
policies by Genworth increased 124 percent in 2010 compared with
2009, said spokesman Tom Topinka. Genworth estimates that
industrywide sales figures for 2010, which are not yet
available, will increase by more than 50 percent, Topinka said.  Top-Selling Policy  In 2010 sales of life and long-term-care combination
products at New York-based New York Life Insurance Co. jumped 92
percent, said Vice President Michael Lackey. Lincoln sold $108.5
million of MoneyGuard, the top-selling hybrid long-term-care
insurance in the U.S. in 2010, a 62 percent increase compared
with 2009. Sales of life and long-term-care blended products
have increased by 67 percent annually since 2008 at the State
Life Insurance Company.  The policies offer a more cost-effective way of insuring
against the possibility of a very long nursing home stay than
other products currently on the market, said Milliman’s
Friedrich.  “We believe the combination policies are poised to take a
leadership role in financing long-term care,” said Bruce Moon,
vice president of marketing for  State Life , a subsidiary of
Indianapolis-based insurer and employee-benefits provider
OneAmerica Financial Partners Inc.  Extension of Benefits  Policies may offer an extension of benefits rider so that
they’ll continue to pay, up to a certain amount, if a holder
spends through their death benefit while receiving long-term
care. Sales commissions generally are about 8 percent of the up-
front premium, said Ryan, the broker.  “It’s a more ‘affordable’ way for certain people to add
long-term care onto their policies,” said David O’Leary,
executive vice president and head of the financial protection
division of Axa Equitable Life Insurance Co., a unit of Paris-
based  Axa SA. (CS)   For a 60-year-old New York man who doesn’t smoke, putting
$100,000 upfront into a Lincoln MoneyGuard Reserve policy would
translate into maximum monthly benefits of about $5,000 a month
for at least 6 years for a policy with an automatic 5 percent
inflation adjustment after the first two years of benefits,
according to a quote obtained by Ryan and confirmed with the
company. The first $119,460 spent on long-term-care would draw
down the policy’s guaranteed death benefit, after which the
holder would have an extension of benefits of $238,920 or more
to spend if he remained in long-term care, according to the
quote.  Class Act  “You have to put up a pretty sizeable amount of cash in
order to get a long-term-care benefit that’s meaningful,” said
John Sherman, president of the Cincinnati-based  LTC Experts , a
long-term-care insurance broker.  The health-care law President Barack Obama signed in March
2010 created a program that will pay a daily cash benefit that
averages $50 or more to those who can no longer care for
themselves, for workers who enroll in and contribute to the
program. Details of the plan, called the Class Act, such as the
cost of premiums for workers who enroll, haven’t been released,
said Lauren Shaham, spokeswoman for LeadingAge.  In April Senator John Thune, a Republican from South
Dakota, and  Senator Lindsey Graham , a Republican from  South
Carolina , introduced a  bill  that would repeal the Class Act.  ‘Ponzi Scheme’  “The Class Act is a Ponzi scheme that would make Bernie Madoff blush,” Graham said in a  press release . “It’s billed as
an insurance program for long-term care, but really it’s just a
huge and very costly government accounting trick.”  Medicaid is the largest single payer for long-term care and
makes up 42 percent of total spending, according to LeadingAge.
Medicare pays for stays of up to 100 days at skilled nursing
facilities when medically necessary, after a patient has had an
inpatient hospital stay of three days or more, said Ellen Griffith, spokeswoman for the Washington-based  Centers for
Medicare & Medicaid Services .  To qualify for Medicaid, an individual over age 65
generally would need to have assets of less than $2,000,
excluding home equity of up to $500,000, said Molly O’Malley
Watts, principal consultant for Watts Health Policy Consulting.  “You truly have to impoverish yourself to qualify,” said
Watts, who’s based in Milton,  Florida . Medicaid officials will
also look at any assets individuals have transferred out of
their control in the five years prior to applying for Medicaid.
“You can’t transfer all your assets to a child and then
qualify,” she said.  Not Bothered  That prospect doesn’t bother Harry Davis, 90, another
resident of VillageCare who’s paid for his five years at the
center with the proceeds from the sale of his home in
Bergenfield,  New Jersey . Davis said he has enough money to pay
for another four to five years at VillageCare, after which he
would go on Medicaid.  “Not that much would change,” said Davis, who owned a
home decorating business before he retired. “If I do run out of
funds, I’ll still have a place to live.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 