-- 
Iran Constitutional Watchdog Says Ahmadinejad Can’t Hold Oil Minister Post

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-05-20T14:03:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/iran-s-ahmadinejad-to-attend-june-opec-meeting-in-vienna-fars-reports.html
The top Iranian legal authority said
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s assumption of control over the
Oil Ministry this month violates the constitution, signaling a
deepening rift in the hierarchy as  Iran  chairs OPEC.  The Guardian Council, partly appointed by Supreme Leader
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, said that it was “unlawful” for
Ahmadinejad to have taken up the post, citing Article 135 of
Iran’s constitution, state-run Fars news agency reported today.  Ahmadinejad declared himself caretaker of the Oil Ministry
in a May 15 interview on state television, a day after
dismissing Masoud Mir-Kazemi and two other ministers as part of
a plan to combine several departments to improve efficiency.  The council’s comment “ties into a specific point of
conflict,” Scott Lucas, an Iran expert at the University of
Birmingham in the U.K., said in a phone interview. “It suggests
the Guardian Council is pretty much on side with the supreme
leader on setting the limits on what Ahmadinejad can do.”  Iran, the second-largest crude producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries, took over the group’s one-year
rotating presidency on Jan. 1. Traditionally, the OPEC
president, who is the sitting oil minister of the country
holding the presidency at the time, gives a public speech on
behalf of the organization at the start of each ministerial
conference.  OPEC Meeting  It wasn’t clear whether the council’s interpretation of the
law will have an impact on Ahmadinejad’s attendance at the June
8 meeting of the 12-member bloc in Vienna. Fars reported on May
18 that he would attend the gathering. Ministers will decide
whether to raise output limits for the first time since 2008 at
this year’s initial OPEC meeting.  Iran is often in favor of limiting oil output to keep
prices high.  Saudi Arabia , the group’s largest member, typically
advocates levels that don’t damp economic growth.  The Iranian president returned to work May 2 after a week-
long absence that followed a conflict between him and Khamenei
over Ahmadinejad’s acceptance of Intelligence Minister Heidar Moslehi’s resignation.  Today’s comments by the council show “an increasingly open
power struggle,”  Samuel Ciszuk  of IHS Global Insight said in a
telephone interview in London. “He’s challenging his
conservative opponents to pretty high degree, and the
conservative faction is not backing down.”  Post-Election Protests  Ahmadinejad was re-elected to a second term in June 2009
amid fraud allegations, which sparked the most widespread
demonstrations in the country since the 1979 revolution that
brought Shiite Muslim clerics to power. The leadership responded
to the post-election dissent by authorizing the use of force,
arresting thousands. Khamenei backed Ahmadinejad at the time,
saying his victory was a “celebration” for the nation.  Article 135 of Iran’s constitution requires that ministers
dismissed by the president remain in their position until a
replacement is appointed, according to Fars. The president is
allowed to select a temporary caretaker for departments without
a minister, for a period of up to three months, it said. The
council has yet to release its verdict on the matter.  Oil is Iran’s biggest source of foreign revenue, with the
price of Iran Light crude gaining 22 percent so far this year to
$108.65 a barrel. The ministry oversaw efforts to boost refinery
processing to avoid shortages of gasoline following U.S.
pressure to curb international sales of the motor fuel to Iran.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Voss  at 
 sev@bloomberg.net . 