-- 
Hitler Suffers ‘Empathy Erosion’ as Killers Become Victims: George Walden

-- B y   G e o r g e   W a l d e n
-- 
2011-05-18T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/hitler-suffers-empathy-erosion-as-killers-become-victims-george-walden.html
Do you sigh for a world without evil?
A place where criminals are conscience-stricken and altruistic
folk of all nations sit down together to make peace?  Well,  Simon Baron-Cohen , a psychology professor at the
University of Cambridge, has an answer: Just boost humanity’s
EQ, or empathy quotient.  Though a cousin of comedian Sacha (a.k.a. “Borat”), this
Baron-Cohen isn’t kidding. In “Zero Degrees of Empathy: A New
Theory of Human Cruelty,” he seriously proposes that we ditch
the word “evil” in favor of “empathy erosion,” a pernicious
state of mind in which we lack any feelings for others and treat
them as objects of our will.  Baron-Cohen specializes in developmental psychopathology.
His theory, an offshoot of the protean discipline of
neuroscience, is grounded in experiment, we are assured. In
accessible language, he describes empathy circuits in the mind.
He is enlightening about the workings of the “mirror system,”
whereby humans and animals echo the acts and emotions of others
-- why we sneeze when our fellow beings sneeze or feel pain when
a pin pricks their skin.  Yet when psychopaths submit to brain scans, they register
no emotion while viewing images of suffering. An unsurprising
result, as are many others discussed here, such as the discovery
that females  score higher  on EQ than males (who nonetheless have
their uses, being on the whole more pragmatic, we’re told).  ‘Zero-Positives’  Zero empathy, we learn, can take three forms: borderline,
narcissistic and psychopathic. These may interact in nasty and
even criminal ways. Baron-Cohen calls such personality types
“zero-negative,” though there are also “zero-positives,”
including those with Asperger’s Syndrome or autism. While they
may find it hard to interact socially, they can possess precise,
exacting minds, capable of impressive feats of systematization.  Though all of this is instructive, the book can be
maddening, especially when it turns an intriguing lesson in
neuroscience into a Pollyanna recipe for improving the world.
Education, the author laments, has ignored empathy. No it
hasn’t: In many a modern school, mawkishly correct feelings have
been instilled as a substitute for knowledge.  And what about people whose flamboyant empathy is in truth
a form of self-gratification? What of pop stars who are keen on
giving foreign aid to countries where the money ends up in the
bank accounts of ministers almost as rich as the (occasionally
tax-dodging) performers themselves?  No Responsibility?  More seriously, what happens when the notion of human
responsibility for evil goes out of the window, along with the
very concept of evil? In Baron-Cohen’s world, murderers, rapists
and villainous statesmen lack empathy for genetic and
environmental reasons.  The murderer came from a bad neighborhood and was abused as
a child; his feelings are deadened, so what else can he do but
kill? As for  Adolf Hitler , he was of poor genetic stock, we must
surmise, and grew up in an atmosphere of anti-Semitism. So
naturally he exterminated six million Jews -- an act not of
evil, but of someone with a deficient EQ, for which he wasn’t to
blame, judging from Baron-Cohen’s logic.  “Empathy is a universal solvent,” capable of resolving
even the Arab-Israeli dispute, says the professor. A sentiment
that annoys me because it’s both indisputably true in theory yet
fatuously -- maybe dangerously -- idealistic.  Is Baron-Cohen simply saying “all you need is love”? If
so, I’m not convinced. Feelings can be fickle; what we often
need is cool reflection. Can science itself be a touch autistic,
one sometimes wonders -- smart as a bag of monkeys yet blind to
the realities of the human condition?  Marxism, Eugenics  We’ve seen universal solvents before. Marxism, many a
scientist agreed, was impeccably scientific.  Sigmund Freud ,
founder of psychoanalysis, also had everything sorted out: For
social class, substitute sex. And the dark science of eugenics
was popular on the political left, notably in  Sweden , well
before the Fuhrer rose to power.  If that sounds cynical, so be it. When white-coated
professors climb into the pulpit to preach a new science of
feelings -- to usher in a brave new godless world in which no
one is responsible for anything and all we need is to be nicer
to one another -- it’s time to take cover.  “Zero Degrees of Empathy” is from  Allen Lane  in the U.K.
(190 pages, 20 pounds). To buy this book in  North America , click
 here .  ( George Walden , a former U.K. education minister, diplomat
and member of Parliament, is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
George Walden in London at  gwashch@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Pressley at   jpressley@bloomberg.net . 