-- 
Johnson & Johnson Failed to Warn Parents About Motrin Risks, Lawyer Argues

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   C h r i s   Y a s i e j k o
-- 
2011-05-18T23:16:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/j-j-failed-to-warn-parents-about-motrin-s-risks-lawyer-argues-at-trial.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  failed to warn
parents that its Children’s Motrin and Children’s Tylenol pain
relievers can cause allergic reactions that leave kids blinded
and burned, a lawyer for the family of a girl allegedly injured
by the drugs said.  J&J officials had studies linking the pain relievers to a
drug reaction that can cause skin burns and eye damage and
didn’t provide warnings on the medicines’ labels,  Keith Jensen ,
an attorney for the family of Brianna Maya, told a Philadelphia
jury today. Maya was left blind in one eye and suffered burns
over 84 percent of her body after taking Motrin and Tylenol in
2000 when she was 3 1/2, Jensen said. She’s now 13 years old.  The pain relievers “destroyed her life before she was old
enough to understand” what was happening to her, Jensen said in
closing arguments in the trial of the family’s lawsuit against
 New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J.  J&J , the world’s largest health-products maker, and its
McNeil unit have faced at least two other jury trials over
claims the companies hid the pain relievers’ links to Stevens-
Johnson Syndrome, an allergic drug reaction that can leave
patients with damaged eyes, a blistered mouth and burned skin.  A California jury cleared the companies of liability in
2008 for injuries suffered by an 11-year-old girl who took the
pain relievers and developed the syndrome. Her family had sought
$1 billion in damages.  Warning Lacking  Two years later, a federal jury in  Illinois   awarded  a woman
who took Children’s Motrin and suffered similar injuries
$3.5 million in damages. A judge threw that award out on
procedural grounds.  In the Philadelphia case, Jensen said Maya took Motrin and
Tylenol to treat a cough and a fever. She developed a rash, skin
lesions, eye infections and lung damage that landed her in the
hospital for months, according to court filings.  Jensen argued J&J officials didn’t include a warning that
Children’s Motrin and Children’s Tylenol could trigger  Stevens-
Johnson Syndrome  on the pain relievers’ 2000 safety labels.  The companies later added warnings that ibuprofen, the pain
relievers’ active ingredient, could trigger “a severe allergic
reaction,” whose symptoms could include rashes and blisters,
the lawyer said in court filings.  J&J had access to research from the early 1990s linking
Ibuprofen to Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, Jenson told the
Philadelphia Court of Common Pleas jury today. Still, the
company failed to include any warning the pain relievers’ labels
until years after Maya took the medicines, the lawyer said.  Rare Syndrome  The girl’s family is seeking at least $5 million in damages
to cover her medical bills and other expenses and Jensen asked
jurors to consider awarding punitive damages against J&J for its
mishandling of the pain relievers.  Christy Jones, J&J’s lawyer, told jurors in her closing
argument the girl’s family failed to prove ibuprofen was the
likely cause of Maya’s Stevens-Johnson Syndrome. The disease is
rare, afflicting 1 person out of 25 million who use the pain
relievers, she argued.  Children’s Motrin also faced rigorous testing before
federal regulators cleared it 20 years ago for over-the-counter
use, Jones said. Finally, J&J and McNeil complied with U.S.  Food
and Drug Administration  labeling rules, she added.  “McNeil complied with every federal regulation and that’s
what the proof is,” Jones told jurors.  The panel will begin deliberating the case tomorrow after
Judge Nitza I. Quinones Alejandro instructs jurors about the
applicable law.  The case is Maya v. Johnson & Johnson, 002879, February
Term 2009, Court of Common Pleas, Philadelphia County
(Philadelphia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Yasiejko in Philadelphia at  yasiejko@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  