-- 
James Hardie Profit Rises on Asia Growth, Plans Share Buyback, Dividends

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-05-18T23:22:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/james-hardie-profit-rises-on-asia-growth-plans-share-buyback-dividends.html
James Hardie Industries SE (JHX) , a global
building materials maker, reported a 41 percent increase in
operating profit in the fourth quarter on strength in its Asia-
Pacific operations, and said it plans to buy back shares and
resume paying dividends.   Income excluding asbestos compensation payments climbed to
$33.3 million in the three months to March 31, compared with
$23.7 million a year ago, the Dublin-based company said in a
statement to the Australian stock exchange today. Profit for the
year fell 12 percent to $116.7 million.  “With the exception of  New Zealand , the Asia-Pacific
businesses have enjoyed relatively robust environments,” Chief
Executive Officer Louis Gries said in the statement. “Operating
conditions in the U.S. residential housing market during the
quarter and full year have remained challenging, and we are yet
to see any substantive evidence that a sustainable recovery has
commenced.”  More than half of U.S. homeowners and renters don’t expect
a housing market recovery until at least 2014, according to a
survey by Trulia Inc. and RealtyTrac Inc. Home starts fell 11
percent in April from the prior month, figures from the Commerce
Department showed on May 17.  James Hardie  will buy back up to 5 percent of outstanding
shares over the next year, and plans to pay dividends following
earnings announcements in November and May 2012, it said.  Including asbestos-related payments, the Australian-listed
company reported a fourth-quarter loss that narrowed to $1.8
million from $2.3 million a year earlier. James Hardie said its
full-year operating loss including payments widened to $347
million, from $84.9 million a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  