-- 
Asian Stocks Fall as Japan’s Economy Contracts, Samsung Retreats

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-05-19T10:44:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/japan-australian-stock-futures-rise-as-oil-climbs-fed-signals-low-rates.html
Asian stocks dropped, with the key
regional index reversing earlier gains, after  Japan  reported its
economy shrank more than estimated last quarter and Gartner Inc.
said Samsung Electronics Co.’s mobile-devices market share fell.  Softbank Corp. (9984) , the exclusive provider of Apple Inc.’s
iPhone in Japan, slumped 2 percent in Tokyo. Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc., Japan’s largest publicly traded lender,
slid 2.1 percent. Samsung fell 1.5 percent.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
the No.1 global mining company and biggest Australian oil
producer, rose 1.2 percent in Sydney as oil and metal prices
jumped.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 0.3 percent to 134.74
as of 7:34 p.m. in Tokyo, erasing earlier gains. The MSCI Asia
Pacific index last week recorded its second straight weekly drop,
amid concern that  China ’s anti-inflation policies may slow
global economic growth and the Fed prepares to end a $600
billion asset-purchase program known as quantitative easing.  “There could be a further weakening in Japanese corporate
earnings following the worse-than-expected contraction in the
nation’s economy,” said Hong Kong-based Michiya Tomita, who
helps oversee about $65 billion for Mitsubishi UFJ Asset
Management Co. “Investors are still skeptical given concerns
over rising inflation and Europe’s debt crisis.”  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average dropped 0.4 percent. Japan’s
economy shrank an annualized 3.7 percent in the three months
through March as the March 11 earthquake and tsunami disrupted
production and prompted consumers to cut back spending. The
economy shrank a revised 3 percent in the previous quarter,
sending the nation to its third recession, defined by economists
as two consecutive quarters of contraction, in a decade.  South Korea, Australia  South Korea’s Kospi Index slipped 1.9 percent.  Hong Kong ’s
Hang Seng Index climbed 0.7 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index rose 1.3 percent as commodity companies advanced.  Australia’s four major banks climbed even after Moody’s
Investors Service cut their credit ratings by one level
yesterday on concern their reliance on wholesale debt markets
makes them vulnerable to swings in investor confidence.  A measure of financial stocks on  Australia ’s benchmark
index pared gains in late trading yesterday after Moody’s made
the announcement.  “The market doesn’t believe the Moody’s move will affect
funding costs, nor that it reflects any real change in banks’
outlook,” said  Angus Gluskie , who manages about $350 million at
White Funds Management Pty. in Sydney.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.4
percent today. In  New York , the index rose 0.9 percent to
yesterday as the Fed signaled continued low  interest rates ,
commodity prices rebounded, and earnings at companies including
Dell Inc. beat analyst estimates.  Fed Minutes  Minutes of the Fed’s April policy meeting said that talks
about an exit strategy from record stimulus measures don’t mean
monetary tightening “would necessarily begin soon.”  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard 
said in an interview in New York that the central bank may keep
its monetary-policy unchanged until late this year, and that
declining inflation expectations have curbed the need to begin
withdrawing record stimulus.  “Expectation is strong that the Fed will continue its
easing policy for a while,” said Mitsushige Akino, who oversees
about $600 million in  Tokyo  at Ichiyoshi Investment Management
Co.  Softbank slumped 2 percent to 3,020 yen. Tokyo Electric
Power Co., operator of the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power
plant damaged in Japan’s worst earthquake, plunged 8 percent to
358 yen. Mitsubishi UFJ dropped 2.1 percent to 378. Renesas
Electronics Corp., the world’s No. 1 maker of microcontrollers
used in cars and mobile phones, fell 3.9 percent to 715 yen
after its full-year net loss widened.  Disaster Hits GDP  “It was hard to speculate how the impact of the disaster
would affect gross domestic product, but the stock market
reacted to the figures that fell short of the estimate in the
market,” said  Masaru Hamasaki , who helps oversee about $18
billion as chief strategist at Toyota Asset Management Co. in
Tokyo.  In Seoul, Samsung Electronics retreated 1.5 percent to
880,000 won after Gartner reported the company’s share of the
mobile handset market slipped to 16.1 percent from 18 percent in
the same period last year.  BHP Billiton  rose 1.2 percent to A$44.82 in Sydney and
 Rio Tinto Group advanced 1.3 percent to A$81.10. Cnooc Ltd.,
China’s biggest offshore oil producer, climbed 1.5 percent to
HK$18.16 in Hong Kong.  Crude oil for June delivery jumped 3.3 percent to $100.10 a
barrel in New York yesterday, the highest settlement price since
May 10. The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals including copper and aluminum climbed 2.9
percent yesterday.  Metals Advance  Metals also rose after house prices increased in 67 of 70
cities tracked by China’s government in April from a year
earlier, according to a report posted on the website of the
country’s statistics bureau yesterday. Building construction and
associated products account for more copper demand than any
other market segments, according to the New York-based
 International Copper Association .  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 1.9 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with gains of 6.6 percent by the S&P
500 and 0.9 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark are valued at 13.5 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 13.5 times for the S&P 500 and 11.1 times
for the Stoxx 600.  In Sydney,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  rose 1.1 percent
to A$52.38,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  climbed 0.4 percent to A$22.90,
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  gained 1.3 percent to
A$22.98, and  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  climbed 1.8 percent to
A$27.40.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 