-- 
JBS May Boost Capital by $2.15 Billion as BNDES Converts Debt Into Stock

-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 
2011-05-18T20:00:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/jbs-may-boost-capital-by-2-15-billion-as-bndes-converst-debt-into-stock.html
JBS SA (JBSS3) , the world’s largest beef
producer, said Brazil’s development bank plans to convert 3.48
billion reais ($2.15 billion) of debt into new stock, almost
doubling its JBS stake. The stock dropped the most in a month.  BNDES, as the bank is known, will convert into stock the
bonds it bought from Sao Paulo-based JBS in December 2009, used
to finance acquisitions of Pilgrim’s Pride Corp. and Bertin SA.
JBS said then the bonds would be converted into shares of its
U.S. unit after an initial public offering. JBS in January
canceled the IPO after postponing it twice.  “We are not worried about BNDES gaining more influence
over the company,” Chief Executive Officer Wesley Batista told
investors today on a conference call. “They won’t gain
additional board seats or have any influence on strategy or
management.”  BNDES will directly hold 31.3 percent of JBS after
converting debt into stock, Batista said. The bank holds 17
percent, according to information on the company’s website. FB
Participacoes SA, the Batista family’s holding company, will
reduce its stake to 47 percent from 54.4 percent, the CEO said.  Shareholder Dilution  “The debt conversion and issuance of new shares will
result in a strong dilution of current shareholders,” Caue Pinheiro, an analyst at SLW Corretora, said today in a note to
clients. JBS will issue about 494.3 million new shares, he said.
He has a “hold” recommendation on the stock.  JBS is holding meetings with investors in the U.S. to sell
$2.2 billion in loans and bonds as part of a debt restructuring
plan, in which it will use dollars to pay for real-denominated
debt in  Brazil . The company plans to raise $400 million in a
 term loan , in addition to $800 million through asset-backed
loans and $1 billion in U.S. bonds.  The move could boost annual net income by $150 million, or
8 centavos a share, in taxes and savings on servicing debt,
Batista said, without elaborating on the time period.  “The bond conversion is an important step for the company
because it eliminates the uncertainties about the mandatory
public share offering of JBS USA Holdings Inc.,” Batista said.
“Concerns about a possible IPO of JBS USA were hurting our
stock.”  JBS has no immediate plans for an IPO of its U.S. unit, he
said.  JBS fell 20 centavos, or 3.5 percent, to 5.57 reais at 4:22
p.m. in  Sao Paulo  trading. It’s the biggest drop since April 18.
The stock has plunged 16 percent in the past 12 months, compared
with a 5 percent gain for Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index.  -- Editors: Robin Saponar, Jessica Brice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  