-- 
NYSE-Nasdaq Deal Seen as Producing Multiple Monopolies by Justice Lawyers

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-05-18T20:40:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/justice-department-saw-multiple-monopolies-in-nasdaq-omx-takeover-of-nyse.html
For the U.S.  Justice Department ,
antitrust concerns in  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) ’s proposed takeover
of NYSE Euronext went beyond a monopoly in stock listings.  Nasdaq OMX and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  withdrew their
joint $11.3 billion bid for NYSE Euronext  on May 16  after the
Justice Department threatened a lawsuit. An acquisition “would
have substantially eliminated competition for corporate stock
listing services, opening and closing stock auction services,
off-exchange stock trade reporting services and real-time
proprietary  equity data products ,” the department said.  While keeping one exchange operator from controlling where
U.S. companies raise money may have been reason enough to block
the proposal, the other objections are debatable, said  Jamie Selway , managing director at Investment Technology Group Inc. in
New York. Selway said the auction issue isn’t separate from the
listing concern, trade reporting is a minor business, and the
logic underlying the assertion about data is questionable.  “The corporate listings concern makes sense,” Selway
said. “The other three are throwaways.”  The Justice Department had no comment beyond its previous
public statements, said  Gina Talamona , a spokeswoman.  Taking over  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  would have given New York-based
Nasdaq OMX the company’s cash equities, options and technology
businesses, while Atlanta-based ICE would have received the
 Liffe  derivatives unit in  Europe  and the U.S. They made their
unsolicited bid on April 1 in an attempt to block the planned
union of NYSE Euronext and Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Boerse AG. (DB1)   Speedy Review  The Justice Department’s  decision  clears the way for
 Deutsche Boerse  to complete its acquisition of the New York
Stock Exchange owner, announced in February. It left Nasdaq OMX
without a merger partner and securities professionals such as
Andrew M. Klein, a partner at Schiff Hardin LLP in  Washington 
who advises exchanges, brokers and investment managers, stunned
by its speed.  “NYSE was an exchange that existed quite happily under
antitrust laws when it had 80 percent of  stock trading  and total
control over its quotation and last-sale data,” said Klein, who
was director of the Securities and Exchange Commission’s
division of  market regulation  in the 1970s. “Saying the deal
with  Nasdaq  was anticompetitive threw a monkey wrench into a
transaction that, as a hostile offer, had already generated
considerable consternation.”  Beyond creating a listings monopoly, a combined Nasdaq-NYSE
would have the “incentive and capability to increase the price
of trading during the opening and closing auctions,”  Christine Varney , head of the Justice Department’s antitrust division,
said on a May 16 conference call.  Raising Fees  The concern about a merged Nasdaq and NYSE raising fees for
investors who trade in the daily opening and closing auctions is
related to the worry about a listings monopoly, Selway said. The
exchange that lists a stock attracts virtually all the volume at
those times, he said.  The open and closing  auctions , conducted by listing markets
at 9:30 a.m. and 4 p.m.  New York  time, aggregate investors’ buy
and sell orders to determine a single price that reflects the
trading interest sent into those processes. The auctions are
trading events that set stock prices at times of the day when a
lot of retail and institutional customers execute orders.  “If exchanges structure their open and closes differently,
you have competition between alternative methods and investors
can decide what works better,” said  Robert Schwartz , a finance
professor at  Baruch College  at the City University of New York
who has studied markets and trading rules since the late 1970s.
That can prompt exchanges facing the threat of competition to
improve their auctions and limit fees.  Trading Demand  The opening and closing  auctions  should reflect as much
trading demand as possible to yield the best prices, said
Schwartz, who was on an advisory committee that helped Nasdaq
Stock Market design its auctions almost a decade ago.  “For any given stock, you want consolidation in where
orders are sent at the open or close, not fragmentation,” he
said. Having exchanges with different methods of calculating
opening and closing prices allows for potential competition.  Justin Schack, managing director for market structure
analysis at New York-based Rosenblatt Securities Inc., said that
rivalries among exchanges have forced venues including Nasdaq to
improve their auctions to attract traders.  The auctions “are inextricably bound to listings,” Schack
said. “Their power to exert control and pricing power could
have been significant,” he said of a Nasdaq-NYSE union.  Off-Exchange Trades  A merged company could also have raised fees on systems for
reporting off-exchange transactions that the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority runs with Nasdaq and NYSE, known as trade
reporting facilities, Varney said. About 30 percent of U.S.
equities trading occurs away from public markets.  The trade reporting facility Nasdaq operates with Finra
already handles 93 percent of transactions reported from off-
exchange, with NYSE getting the rest, according to data compiled
by Bats Global Markets Inc. Nasdaq used to have all the volume.
Two other TRFs developed in the last five years shut down.
They’re not “high-value” offerings by exchanges, Selway said.  Varney said the combination of NYSE and Nasdaq could also
increase charges for proprietary market data and curtail the
introduction of products the exchanges sell to investors and
brokers. They include real-time quotation and trade information
and are separate from the industry’s public market data.  Bats, Direct Edge  Two exchange firms, Bats in Lenexa, Kansas, and Direct Edge
Holdings LLC in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , which together account
for a  fifth  of U.S. equities volume, offer real-time market data
that competes with NYSE’s and Nasdaq’s. The companies are owned
by groups that include units of  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Credit Suisse
Group AG, Citigroup Inc.,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Knight Capital Group Inc. and were formed as a
hedge against NYSE and Nasdaq gaining too much sway over U.S.
equities trading and related services.  Still, Christopher Nagy, managing director for order
routing sales at TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. in Omaha, Nebraska,
said the Justice Department’s focus on market-data costs is
important to brokers that must acquire that information. While
antitrust officials discussed only proprietary data from
exchanges, he said the  public trade information  retail brokers
buy from NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq-run units is too expensive.  “If you combine the two exchanges and that becomes the
dominant purveyor of data products for the displayed markets,
that would have been monopolistic,” said Tim Quast, founder and
managing director at  ModernNetworks IR LLC  in Denver. “The
DOJ’s decision makes sense.”  Antitrust Remedies  Nasdaq OMX Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  said in
a statement on May 16 that the company had offered to sell the
NYSE self-regulatory organization, or entity that controls the
Big Board exchange, along with related businesses to allay
competition concerns.  “Nasdaq seemed willing to sell the NYSE SRO as a fairly
substantial remedy,” Selway said. “It’s a real surprise that
DOJ would respond so quickly and forcefully.”  Matthew Cantor, a New York-based partner at antitrust law
firm Constantine Cannon LLP, said it was unclear who could buy
NYSE and preserve its value without owning the rest of the
company. Issuers might “jump ship,” he said.  Varney said on the  May 16 call  that no remedy offered by
Nasdaq OMX would have met DOJ’s approval. She said her group
conducted a “thorough investigation” of the deal that they saw
as creating a monopoly.  Business Rationale  When a company offers to sell assets at “the heart of the
merger, one wonders what it is they’re going to divest and how
it will compete and what is the business rationale for the
transaction,” she said.  That the review took just six weeks is unusual, Cantor
said. Most take months as economists analyze the likely impact
on prices and competition, consider potential solutions to
address competitive concerns and figure out whether they can
build a case to prevent a transaction they think will result in
harm to consumers, he said.  The Nasdaq case signals that “transactions that on their
face look like they’re going to substantially lessen competition
aren’t going to pass muster,” he said. “They’re going to pull
the trigger.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 