-- 
Kazakhs to Block Karachaganak Expansion Unless State Gets Stake

-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 
2011-05-18T14:15:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/kazakhs-to-block-karachaganak-expansion-unless-state-gets-stake.html
Kazakhstan will approve the next
expansion phase of an oilfield project led by  BG Group Plc (BG/)  and
 Eni SpA (ENI)  only after the partners agree on giving the government a
stake, Oil Minister Sauat Mynbayev said.  “There will be no third phase at Karachaganak if there’s
no deal,” Mynbayev told reporters in Astana today, without
elaborating on the talks. “If we don’t agree, the project will
be frozen.”  The Karachaganak project is the only major oil producer in
Kazakhstan without state participation, and the government has
delayed approving the  capital spending  that the partners
proposed for the third phase.  The BG- and Eni SpA-led venture has been in talks with the
government on ceding a minority stake since 2009 after the state
made tax demands. Karachaganak Petroleum Operating BV in its
turn has sought to recover more than $1 billion in export
duties, Oil Minister Sauat Mynbayev said in September 2009.  Eni and BG have estimated the investment costs of the
third-phase at $23 billion,  Italy ’s MF newspaper reported
yesterday, without saying where it got the information.
KazMunaiGaz National Co., the state-owned oil producer, said
last year that the expansion may cost $14.5 billion.  Kazakhstan may pay cash for a stake in Karachaganak, the
nation’s second-largest oil producer, Kanatbek Safinov,
secretary at the oil and gas ministry, said in an interview in
Almaty, Kazakhstan’s financial center, in March.  KazMunaiGaz may buy about 10 percent in Karachaganak, Timur Kulibayev, now the head of the National Wellbeing Fund Samruk-
Kazyna, which owns the state-held company, said in March. A deal
with the partners is expected to be reached in the next few
months, he said.  BG and Eni are the largest shareholders in the Karachaganak
venture, each holding 32.5 percent, while  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  has a 20
percent interest and Lukoil,  Russia ’s biggest non-state oil
producer, holds 15 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  