-- 
Hong Kong May Ask Lenders to Set Aside More Reserves on Loan Default Risks

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-05-19T08:36:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/hkma-s-chan-says-banks-rates-to-face-upward-pressure-1-.html
Hong Kong  Monetary Authority may ask
some banks to set aside more reserves, the latest step by the
Chinese city to curb credit growth and prevent loan defaults,
after borrowing surged and  mortgage rates  advanced.  The de-facto central bank will start talks on lenders’
deposit levels to “better absorb the impact of bad debts,”
K. C. Chan, secretary for financial services and the treasury,
said in a written reply to lawmakers  yesterday . HKMA will also
ask banks to review lending plans to better manage
“concentration risk and liquidity,” he said.  Banks are facing “upward” pressure on lending and deposit
rates as credit demand soaks up cash from the financial system,
HKMA’s Chief Executive  Norman Chan  said  yesterday .  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  and other lenders raised mortgage rates in Hong Kong this
month after the central bank in April warned of the risk of a
“credit-fueled property bubble.”  “The current pace of loan growth is not sustainable,”
said Kevin Lai, an economist at Daiwa Capital Markets in Hong
Kong. “The government is clearly concerned about the risks and
it keeps warning the market. The situation of ample liquidity
may be over soon.”  The local currency loan-to-deposit ratio for Hong Kong
banks rose to 81.7 percent by the end of March from 71 percent
in early 2010, HKMA said. HSBC said this week that mortgage
rates in the city will rise further because of “tightness” in
market liquidity.  “Historically, Hong Kong banks tend to maintain a healthy
loan-to-deposit ratio,” Benjamin Hung, chief executive of
 Standard Chartered Plc (2888) ’s Hong Kong unit, told reporters in the
city today. “In the long run, I don’t think this should be a
problem.”  Home Prices   “The HKMA will continue to monitor the international
developments on enhancing banking supervisory measures and
implement additional measures in Hong Kong if necessary,” said
Chan, the financial services secretary.  Hong Kong Chief Executive Donald Tsang said today the
government “won’t hesitate” to implement measures to curb
home-price gains when necessary.  Home prices have surged about 70 percent since the start of
2009 on record-low borrowing costs, according to Centaline
Property Agency Ltd., the city’s biggest privately held real-
estate broker. A currency peg to the dollar robs Hong Kong of an
independent interest-rate policy as cash spills into the city
from mainland China and from monetary easing in developed
economies including the U.S.  “As long as the low-interest-rate environment remains
unchanged, there would still be risk of an asset price bubble
induced by abundant liquidity,” said Chan, the financial
services secretary.  Norman Chan yesterday reiterated calls on April 28 that
interest rates will rise on capital outflows when the U.S.
increases borrowing costs.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled last
month that the need to contain inflation means further monetary
easing in the U.S. is unlikely when $600 billion of Treasury
purchases end in June. Capital inflows into Hong Kong amounted
to HK$640 billion ($82.4 billion) in the five quarters through
December 2009, according to the HKMA.  The city’s central bank asked some lenders to limit loan
growth and ensure that it doesn’t exceed the increase in the
first few months of this year, Oriental Daily reported today,
citing unidentified people.  The banks’ regulator is reviewing funding plans from local
lenders and will discuss that with them soon, according to an
e-mailed reply from the HKMA.  Home loan charges in the city, which are mostly linked to
Hong Kong interbank rates, or Hibor, began climbing at the end
of 2010 after shrinking to a record low of 0.89 percent in
November, according to mortgage service and data provider
mReferral Mortgage Brokerage Services.  HSBC last week said it will raise  interest rates  for
mortgages based on Hibor to 1.5 percentage points to 2
percentage points more than the benchmark, from 1 percentage
point to 1.5 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  