-- 
Kodak Climbs After Favorable Patent Dispute Recommendations

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-05-19T02:06:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/kodak-climbs-after-favorable-patent-dispute-recommendations-1-.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EK)  soared 15 percent
after favorable recommendations by the staff of the U.S.
International Trade Commission in a patent dispute with  Research
In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   The staff sided with Kodak’s arguments that RIM and Apple
infringed a patent on a way to preview digital images using less
processing power and storage space. The recommendations, filed
last month, were made public yesterday. The six-member
commission, scheduled to release a decision June 23, doesn’t
always follow the rulings of the office within the agency that
acts as a third party in its cases.  Kodak, the company that popularized photography with the
Brownie and Instamatic cameras, may be able to extract $1
billion from Apple and RIM should it win the case, Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Antonio Perez said in an interview March
24.  Kodak, based in Rochester,  New York , is “looking forward
to the full ITC’s decision,” David Lanzillo, a company
spokesman, said by e-mail. Steve Dowling, a spokesman for
Cupertino, California-based Apple, declined to comment. Marisa Conway, a spokeswoman for Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM, didn’t
reply to messages seeking comment.  Interpreting Wording  ITC Judge Paul Luckern found in January that neither Apple
nor RIM infringed the patent. A key part of the review by the
commission is considering whether the judge’s interpretation of
wording in the patent claim was correct. In the April 15 filing,
the staff sided with Kodak on three of five disputed phrases and
said in conclusion that “these claim terms no longer provide
bases for non-infringement.”  Earlier in the document, the staff disagreed with Kodak on
two other phrases, and said they “would still provide a basis
for a finding of non-infringement as to Apple’s iPhone 3GS and
iPhone 4.”  Kodak climbed 48 cents to $3.60, the biggest jump since
April 8. The shares have tumbled 33 percent this year.  The staff said that, should a violation be found, the ITC
could bar imports of Apple’s iPhone and RIM’s Blackberry without
harming the public interest or competition in the smartphone
marketplace.  The ITC is a quasi-judicial arbiter of trade disputes.
While the agency can’t order monetary damages, the threat of
being shut out of the U.S. market often provides the incentive
for settlements.  Printing Investments  Perez, Kodak’s CEO since 2005, has said he is using
proceeds from intellectual property licensing to invest in the
company’s inkjet printing, packaging and software units to blunt
falling revenue from camera film.  The patent in dispute covers a feature that previews low-
resolution versions of a moving image while recording still
images at a high resolution. Higher resolution requires more
processing power and storage space. Kodak, which generated $838
million from patents last year, contends the image-preview
feature is used in every digital camera and phone with a camera.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Mobile Telephones and
Wireless Communication Devices Featuring Digital Cameras, and
Components Thereof, 337-703, U.S. International Trade Commission
( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes at   aholmes25@bloomberg.net  