-- 
Korean Won Gains for 2nd Day on Speculation Exporters Repatriating Funds

-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 
2011-05-18T06:30:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/korean-won-gains-on-speculation-exporters-repatriating-funds-bonds-steady.html
South Korea ’s won advanced for a
second day, its first back-to-back gains this month, on
speculation exporters are repatriating income after the currency
touched a five-week low yesterday. Bonds slipped.  The won has weakened 1.5 percent since April as concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen bolstered demand for the
greenback and damped investors’ risk appetite, making it harder
for emerging markets to attract funds. European finance chiefs
endorsed a 78 billion-euro ($111 billion) bailout for  Portugal 
this week, while stepping up pressure on Greece to sell assets
and deepen spending cuts in exchange for more financial aid.  The won strengthened 0.1 percent to 1,087.90 per dollar as
of the 3 p.m. close in  Seoul , following a 0.3 percent advance
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched
1,095.68 yesterday, the weakest level since April 13. The Kospi
stock index climbed 1.6 percent, snapping a four-day slide.  “Exporters want to take advantage of the recent won
decline by selling dollars,” said Jeon Seung Ji, a currency
analyst at Samsung Futures Inc. in Seoul. “The rise in the
stock market is also fanning demand for higher-yielding assets,
pushing up the won, but gains will be limited as concerns such
as the European debt issue haven’t been resolved.”  The yield on South Korea’s benchmark three-year bonds due
December 2013 increased one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 3.63 percent, according to prices from  Korea  Exchange
Inc.  The Bank of Korea will continue to raise  interest rates  at
its own pace, Governor Kim Choong Soo said today after the
central bank unexpectedly left South Korea’s benchmark interest
rate unchanged at 3 percent on May 13. Still, South Korea does
need to be wary of an inflation spiral, Kim said in Seoul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  