-- 
N.Z. Consumer Confidence Rises First Time in Four Months

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-05-18T04:04:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/n-z-consumer-confidence-rises-first-time-in-four-months-1-.html
New Zealand ’s consumer confidence
rose in May for the first time in four months, adding to signs
of a recovery in regions outside earthquake-damaged
Christchurch, a private survey showed.  The ANZ-Roy Morgan confidence index rose to 103.2 from
101.4 in April, according to an e-mailed statement from
Wellington-based ANZ National Bank Ltd. today. A number of more
than 100 shows that optimists outnumber pessimists.  Confidence is weaker than levels recorded before the
magnitude-6.3 temblor that struck the South Island city on Feb.
22, adding to the case for central bank Governor Alan Bollard to
leave the benchmark interest rate at a record low. The central
bank kept the official cash rate at 2.5 percent last month and
said low borrowing costs would be appropriate “for some time.”  “We can see elements of clear support for spending to
begin diffusing through the economy,” ANZ Chief Economist
Cameron Bagrie said in the statement. Still, the support is
facing “headwinds” from consumers’ preference to save rather
than spend, rising food and fuel costs and uncertainty about
jobs and  house prices , he said.  Twelve of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News last
month predict the benchmark rate will be kept unchanged for the
rest of this year.  The number of respondents saying they expect the economy
will deteriorate over the next 12 months fell to 43 percent from
48 percent in April, while the number expecting better times
rose to 27 percent, today’s report showed.  The proportion of the 1,078 respondents who said they
expect to be better off financially a year from now rose to 43
percent from 42 percent. More people said it is a good time to
buy a major household item, according to the report.  Confidence in Christchurch and the surrounding Canterbury
province fell to a two-year low. Sentiment increased in
Auckland, the largest city, and the capital, Wellington, ANZ
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  