-- 
Nalco Wins Judge’s Ruling That Stops EPA From Blocking Sales of OxiPRO

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-18T20:58:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/nalco-wins-judge-s-ruling-that-stops-epa-from-blocking-sales-of-oxipro.html
Nalco Holding Co. (NLC) , the world’s
biggest provider of water-treatment services, won a court ruling
that temporarily stops the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
from blocking the sale of its OxiPRO product.  U.S. District Judge Rosemary Collyer in  Washington  said
Nalco can continue selling OxiPRO, a product used to kill
microorganisms in pulp and paper mills, to existing customers.
Collyer, in her decision today, let stand an earlier EPA order
barring sales to new customers.  The EPA last month ordered the company to stop some sales
of the product, finding it must be registered as a pesticide
with the agency.  Collyer ruled the EPA order was improper because the agency
made its decision in part to “level the commercial market”
between Nalco and its competitors.  “There is no basis in FIFRA for EPA to exercise its
enforcement authority to balance markets,” said Collyer,
referring to the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide
Act.  The EPA in December found that the addition of ammonia or
urea products to the sodium hypochlorite in OxiPRO resulted in a
new pesticide from the chlorine solution itself and that those
additional products must be registered as pesticides.  An enforcement order barred sales of OxiPRO to new
customers while allowing the system to be sold to existing
customers. OxiPRO has been sold for the past five years.  Competitors’ Suit  In March, Nalco’s competitors sued the EPA seeking an
entire ban on OxiPRO. The following month, the EPA issued the
new order and the lawsuits were dropped, Collyer said.  “We’re pleased with the judge’s ruling and the opportunity
to continue supplying our customers with this effective
technology,” said Charlie Pajor, a spokesman for Naperville,
Illinois-based Nalco.  Dale Kemery, an EPA spokesman, said he couldn’t immediately
comment on the ruling.  Nalco rose 35 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $28.88 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  The case is Nalco Co. v. U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, 11-cv-00760, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  