-- 
Free Money Claim Roils Clash on One-Time Offshore Tax Break

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-05-18T14:35:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/new-money-claim-roils-dispute-on-one-time-offshore-tax-holiday.html
The fate of a proposed tax holiday on
repatriating offshore profits could turn on whether the idea
would lead to a deluge of money into the  U.S. Treasury  -- or out
of it.  Backers, including such companies as  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) ,
 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , say bringing home more than
$1 trillion in profits that companies have parked outside the
U.S. would yield a windfall for the federal government.  “If we can bring this money back and if it gets reinvested
in the economy, $1 trillion is a real shot in the arm for the
economy,”  Jim Rogers , president, chairman and chief executive
officer of  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) , said in an interview today.
Without a tax break, he said, Duke would use some of the $1.2
billion it has invested outside the U.S. for projects in Peru or
 Brazil .  The official nonpartisan scorekeeper for Congress thinks
some of the money will come home without a holiday, and it
labels the proposal a corporate  tax cut . The  Joint Committee on
Taxation  estimates that companies would take advantage of a
holiday by accelerating future repatriations and shifting more
profit offshore with the expectation that Congress would again
offer a tax discount.  “These taxpayers that are affected are not urging this
because they’re going to end up paying more in taxes,” said
George Yin, a former chief of staff of the Joint Committee on
Taxation who is a law professor at the  University of Virginia .
“They’re urging this because it’s going to reduce their
taxes.”  Short-Term Gain  The committee estimated that a tax holiday would generate a
short-term revenue gain of $25.5 billion between now and 2013,
and cost  $78.7 billion  over the next decade. Because lawmakers
are so focused on the federal  budget deficit , a corporate tax
cut may be tougher to advance than a policy that generates new
money.  “A bad score creates a real challenge,” said former U.S.
Representative Phil English, a Pennsylvania Republican who is a
senior government relations adviser at Arent Fox LLP in
Washington. “If a score like this suggests significant revenue
loss, then that becomes a rhetorical hedge against it that can
be used in not just debates in Congress but also in subsequent
political fallout.”  The repatriation proposal, introduced by Representative
Kevin Brady of Texas on May 11, has support from at least three
House Democrats and from former labor-union leader Andrew Stern.
The Obama administration opposes a tax holiday, because it says
the benefits of a similar proposal enacted in 2004 flowed to
relatively few companies. Also, the administration maintains the
holiday would weaken momentum for an overhaul of the  tax code .  One-Time Holiday  The debate over the estimate hinges on projections of how
companies would respond to a one-time repatriation opportunity
in the context of the U.S. international tax system. The
estimate, released by Representative Lloyd Doggett, a  Texas 
Democrat and repatriation opponent, analyzes a proposal similar
to the 2004 holiday, not Brady’s bill.  Unlike most other industrialized countries, the U.S. taxes
worldwide profits earned by U.S.-based companies. Corporations
receive tax credits for payments to other governments, and can
defer the residual U.S. tax until they bring home the profits.  Those features can encourage companies to park investments
and profits outside the U.S. Adobe, Cisco and Pfizer currently
have $1.9 billion, $31.6 billion and $48.2 billion,
respectively, in other countries.  Supporters of a repatriation holiday say companies won’t
bring money home if required to pay the difference between tax
rates in other countries and the 35 percent U.S. statutory rate.  ‘Double-Taxed’  “There is a universal assumption by the government scorers
that a substantial amount of the revenue that is effectively
double-taxed will eventually find its way back on shore,” said
English, who helped write the 2004 bill. “That’s not been the
experience.”  Without an incentive, “companies are never going to
repatriate the money,” said  Allen Sinai , chief global economist
of  Decision Economics Inc. , a research firm in  New York . “It’s
going to stay overseas permanently. On a one-time repatriation,
the Treasury will get money.”  Just because the government would garner some revenue
through a tax holiday doesn’t make it a net winner for the
Treasury. The costs of proposals are measured against a baseline
revenue estimate that assumes no policy changes.  That requires scorekeepers to calculate two scenarios. Even
in hindsight, the inability to examine what would have happened
without the previous holiday makes it difficult to measure the
accuracy of the 2004 projection that it would cost $3.3 billion.  Committee Estimates  The joint committee estimated that in 2004 companies would
repatriate $235 billion, not the $312 billion in profits they
eventually brought back to the U.S. that qualified for the tax
break. This time, the joint committee estimates that companies
would bring home about $700 billion if offered the same 5.25
percent rate.  Congressional scorekeepers highlight the fact that
companies repatriate money every year -- $104.5 billion in 2008
-- as evidence that the government already takes in revenue from
offshore profits. Their analysis suggests that companies would
accelerate those repatriations if offered the holiday.  Robert Shapiro, chairman of the economic consulting firm
Sonecon LLC in  Washington , said the pace of repatriations
suggests that companies didn’t accelerate plans to repatriate
money during the previous holiday. If that were true, he said,
the pace of profits sent home since would have plummeted.  Normal Levels  “Yes, there is this big jump in repatriations in the
period of the tax preference, but repatriations then returned to
normal levels, not depressed levels,” said Shapiro, who oversaw
economic policy in the U.S. Commerce Department under President
 Bill Clinton .  In examining those steady repatriations and the
accumulating amounts of money overseas, the joint committee sees
evidence that companies will need to bring money home over the
next decade, even at higher tax rates.  “It’s quite remarkable how quickly and how much
permanently reinvested earnings have accumulated again,” Yin
said.  That thinking ignores the investment opportunities that
companies have outside the U.S. and shareholders’ demands for
higher rates of return, said former Representative Jim McCrery,
a Louisiana Republican who is a lobbyist for the  companies
seeking the repatriation holiday .  ‘At the Margin’  “At the margin, that cash is going to go to that
investment overseas, because it doesn’t face another level of
taxation,” he said.  JCT officials use economic models and corporate tax returns
to make their projections. They don’t consider the time value of
money, and they operate within constraints that don’t let them
assume tax policies can help expand the economy. The estimate
provided to Doggett said studies of the previous holiday found
“little macroeconomic benefit.”  The lack of what’s called dynamic scoring means that those
models miss the economic benefits of repatriation, said Sinai.  If a repatriation holiday occurs, scorekeepers project that
corporations would shift even more investments and profits
outside the U.S. in anticipation of another tax holiday.  That would create a territorial tax system in which profits
earned outside the U.S. are exempt from taxation, without the
safeguards other countries use to discourage shifting of profits
or investment, said Edward Kleinbard, a former joint tax
committee chief of staff who is a law professor at the
University of  Southern California .  “What the estimate essentially reflects, as an outsider,
is the idea that if Congress were to enact this one-time only
repatriation for a second time, firms will anticipate that there
will be a third and fourth and a fifth time,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  