-- 
New York Palace Hotel to Be Sold to Kukral’s Northwood

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t   a n d   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 
2011-05-18T23:00:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/new-york-palace-hotel-to-be-sold-to-northwood-investors-for-400-million.html
The  New York Palace Hotel , a luxury
property in midtown  Manhattan , is under contract to be sold to
Northwood Investors LLC, an investment manager started by former
Blackstone Group LP executive John Kukral.  The purchase price is about $400 million, said a person
with knowledge of the transaction who asked not to be named
because the deal hasn’t been completed. The current owner is an
entity associated with the royal family of  Brunei , according to
New York-based research company Real Capital Analytics Inc.  “We are investing in the Palace brand and property both to
grow the business and to further enhance its stature as a world-
renowned luxury hotel,” Kukral, president and chief executive
officer of New York-based Northwood, said in a statement today.
“This is only the second time the Palace has traded hands in
its 30-year history, and we are excited about building on its
impressive reputation.”  Hotel transactions are picking up in  New York  as travel
rebounds and occupancy improves. Manhattan is the most active
U.S. market for deals, and sales may double to as much as $2.4
billion this year, Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels said in February.
Average room rates in New York climbed 4.6 percent in the first
quarter to $197.29, the highest level among the top 25 U.S.
markets, according to Smith Travel Research Inc.  Manhattan Hotel Deals  DiamondRock Hospitality Co. (DRH) , a real estate investment trust
that owns hotels operated by Marriott International Inc., this
month agreed to buy the 712-room Radisson Lexington Hotel New
York for $335 million.  Host Hotels & Resorts Inc. (HST) , the largest
U.S. lodging REIT, in March purchased the 775-room New York
Helmsley Hotel in Midtown for $313.5 million.  The New York Palace has 899 rooms, valuing the transaction
at about $445,000 per key. That’s low for a luxury hotel in New
York, the person with knowledge of the deal said. The property
fetched a lower price partially because it’s subject to a
leasehold agreement with the Archdiocese of New York, which owns
the land under the hotel, the person said.  The Palace is located on Madison Avenue between 50th and
51st streets, near St. Patrick’s Cathedral, Rockefeller Center
and  Saks Fifth Avenue . A night at the hotel, which features
brocade drapes and marble bathrooms in its rooms and
complimentary shoe shines, starts at $369 during the week of May
23, according to its website.  A partnership owned by the family of the Sultan of Brunei
purchased the hotel, then known as the Helmsley Palace, for
about $200 million in 1993. The property is managed by the
Dorchester Collection, which also operates lodgings including
the Beverly Hills Hotel in  California  and the Dorchester in
 London .  Kukral, the former head of Blackstone’s real estate unit,
started Northwood in 2006 to invest in commercial properties.
The company’s  portfolio  also includes the Radisson Hotel Boston
and Alden Houston Hotel, according to the company website.
Kukral was with Blackstone from 1994 through 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net ;
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  