-- 
Newly Found Planets Aren’t Tightly Linked With Solar Systems, Report Says

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-05-18T18:51:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/newly-found-planets-aren-t-tightly-linked-with-solar-systems-report-says.html
A new class of planets that either
aren’t tied to a specific solar system, or are very distantly
linked, has been identified by astronomers.  The planets were probably ejected from developing planetary
systems, said a report today in the journal  Nature . The analysis
identifies what appears to be 10 free-floating planets roughly
the mass of Jupiter, which is about 310 times larger than Earth.  Researchers led by astronomer David Bennett, of the
 University of Notre Dame  in  Indiana , analyzed observations made
of the Milky Way in 2006 and 2007 by a Japan-New Zealand survey.
They found 10 potentially orphaned planets, the report said. The
analysis, the first evidence of such objects in the galaxy,
wasn’t sensitive enough to identify smaller planets, the
researchers said.  “This tells us something about how planet formation
works,” Bennett said in a telephone interview today. “We know
planet formation is a violent process. There may be close two-
body encounters where one planet gets flung out of the system.
Or, if they’re just in distance orbits, there are a lot of
planets forming a lot further out.”  Free-floating planets are difficult to detect, so the
identification of as many as 10 implies more exist, the report
suggests. The researchers estimated there may be twice as many
free-floaters as there are stars in the sky, or there may be a
lot of  Jupiter-sized  planets very far from their stars.  “Our survey is like a population census -- we sampled a
portion of the galaxy and, based on these data, can estimate
overall numbers in the galaxy,” Bennett said.  Finding Free-Floaters  The U.S.  National Aeronautics and Space Administration , or
 NASA , will attempt to pinpoint free-floating planets in the
Milky Way galaxy during its  WFIRST  mission, which is currently
being planned. WFIRST is designed to study questions in  non-sun
planets  and dark energy research, in part by monitoring changes
in brightness to stars made by solar systems, according to the
NASA mission page.  “Our results suggest that planetary systems often become
unstable, with planets being kicked out from their places of
birth by close encounters with other planets,” Bennett said in
the statement. If they formed on their own, like stars, “then
we would have expected to see only one or two of them in our
survey instead of 10.”  The typical free-floating planet was about 10 astronomical
units out, Bennett said. Saturn is 9.5 astronomical units from
the sun. Some planets may be in orbit and perpendicular to
observers, making it harder to detect their host stars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 