-- 
No Proof Senior Pakistani Officials Knew Bin Laden Whereabouts, Gates Says

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-05-18T19:35:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/no-proof-senior-pakistani-officials-knew-bin-laden-whereabouts-gates-says.html
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said
he has seen no evidence that Pakistan’s senior leaders knew
Osama bin Laden’s whereabouts before the U.S. raid on his
compound.  Gates said he isn’t sure about lower-level or retired
officials.  “I have seen no evidence at all that the senior leadership
knew,” Gates told reporters at a Pentagon briefing. “In fact,
I’ve seen some evidence to the contrary.”  Gates said it will take time to determine if any lower-
ranking officials knew. “My supposition is, somebody knew,” he
said.  Whether Pakistani government and intelligence officials
shielded bin Laden has become an issue on  Capitol Hill , where
some senators have called for postponing any more U.S. financial
aid until Pakistan’s commitment to fighting terrorism can be re-
evaluated.  Gates opposed the idea of seeking retaliatory measures
against  Pakistan  without evidence of Pakistani government
officials’ complicity.  “If the senior leadership in Pakistan didn’t know, it’s
hard to hold them accountable for it,” Gates said.  Gates said his “supposition” is that somebody, possibly
retired Pakistani or low-level officials, knew of bin Laden’s
whereabouts. Even so, he said, “it’s hard to go to them with an
accusation when we have no proof that anybody knew.”  He said Pakistani leaders have already “paid a price”
because they have been “humiliated” by the U.S. raid.  ‘Price Paid’  “We have to recognize that they see a cost in that and a
price that has been paid,” he said.  Gates, who plans to step down in July, also pushed back on
congressional pleas to cut or postpone financial aid to
Pakistan. President  Barack Obama  has proposed giving $1.2
billion to Pakistan next year, partly for counter-insurgency
training for its military.  “We have to proceed with some caution,” Gates said. “We
do have significant interests in Pakistan.”  He added, “We need to continue the assistance that we have
provided.”  Gates and Admiral Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, also voiced concern that too many U.S. government
officials -- and retired military -- have revealed details of
the raid that resulted in bin Laden’s death.  Since the initial government briefings on the raid,
officials in and out of government have described the operation,
including details of the SEALs’ equipment and how the CIA spied
on the compound.  “We have talked far too much about this,” Mullen said.
“We need to move on. It’s a story that, if we don’t stop
talking, it will never end, and it needs to.”  Leaked details of the raid have “gotten to a point where
we are close to jeopardizing this precious capability that we
have, and we can’t afford to do that. This fight isn’t over.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 Dlerman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 