-- 
Novak Djokovic Still Has Things to Prove at French Open, John McEnroe Says

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-05-18T12:29:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/novak-djokovic-still-has-things-to-prove-at-french-open-john-mcenroe-says.html
Novak Djokovic, who’s beaten top-
ranked  Rafael Nadal  in the finals of their last two clay-court
tournaments, still can’t be considered the outright favorite for
the French Open, seven-time Grand Slam winner  John McEnroe  said.  Djokovic has won 37 matches to start the year, including
the Australian Open title, and earlier this month beat Nadal in
the finals of the clay-court events in Rome and Madrid. The Serb
had also defeated Nadal twice in hard-court finals, in Indian
Wells and Miami, earlier in the season. Djokovic is closing in
on McEnroe’s 1984 record of 42 straight wins to start a year.  Still, Nadal’s five titles on the clay courts of  Roland
Garros  mean Djokovic has a point to prove in a five-set match on
the Spaniard’s favorite surface, McEnroe said.  Second-ranked Djokovic has “earned the right to be co-
favorite,” McEnroe said in a conference call with reporters.
“But anytime you’ve won it five times like Nadal has, and are
still in or very close to your absolute prime, and you’re still
incredibly difficult to beat... His record at the  French Open  is
phenomenal.”  Nadal hadn’t lost a match at Roland Garros until a knee
injury turned around a match with Sweden’s  Robin Soderling  in
the 2009 fourth round. Nadal missed several months before
returning and he won his fifth French Open title last year.  The left-handed Spaniard is the 8-11 favorite to win the
French Open at U.K. bookmaker  William Hill Plc , meaning a
successful $11 bet would return $8 plus the original stake.
Djokovic is the second-favorite at 11-8, while  Roger Federer ,
Andy Murray and Juan Martin del Potroare all at 14-1.  ‘Mixed Emotions’  McEnroe, who’s playing in the Aegon Masters senior tour at
London’s Royal Albert Hall in December, said he has “mixed
emotions” about Djokovic closing in on his win streak. The 23-
year-old can tie the American’s mark by reaching the semifinals
of the French Open, and will surpass Nadal for the No. 1 ranking
of the ATP World Tour if he makes the final in Paris, even if
Nadal wins the event.  “I’ve probably lost any record that I had,” McEnroe said.
“But at the same time, there has been a nice boost and shot in
the arm for our sport so I am actually quite excited about the
timing of this: that he could break my record to the start of
the year at the French Open.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the  London  sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 