-- 
Philip Roth Wins Man Booker International Prize, $97,600

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 
2011-05-18T14:33:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/novelist-philip-roth-wins-97-600-man-booker-international-fiction-prize.html
American novelist  Philip Roth  won the
 Man Booker International Prize , defeating 12 other finalists for
the literary award of 60,000 pounds ($97,600).  First bestowed on Albanian writer Ismail Kadare in 2005,
Man Booker International Prize is awarded every two years to
recognize a living author’s achievement in fiction and literary
excellence.  A judging panel led by Rick Gekoski honored Roth in a news
conference at the Sydney Opera House during the  Sydney Writers’
Festival  in  Australia , the contest organizers said in an e-
mailed statement.  “For more than 50 years Philip Roth’s books have
stimulated, provoked and amused an enormous, and still
expanding, audience,” Gekoski said in the release. “His
imagination has not only recast our idea of Jewish identity, it
has also reanimated fiction, and not just American fiction,
generally.”  One of the three judges, Australian author Carmen Callil,
later voiced criticism of the decision, telling the U.K.’s
Guardian newspaper that Roth “goes on and on and on about the
same subject in almost every single book.” The founder of
 London  feminist publisher  Virago Press , Callil said she withdrew
from the panel after telling fellow juror and novelist Justin Cartwright that she thought “I should give in,” the Guardian
reported.  ‘Goodbye, Columbus’  Born in 1933, Roth scooped up the National Book Award for
Fiction with his first published work, “Goodbye, Columbus.” He
went on to score bestselling notoriety in 1969 with “Portnoy’s
Complaint.” In 1979, he introduced his fictional alter ego,
Nathan Zuckerman, in “The Ghost Writer,” the first in a series
of autobiographical novels. He won the  Pulitzer in 1998  for
“American Pastoral.”  Roth was selected from a list of prominent authors who
included John le Carre,  Philip Pullman  and Marilynne Robinson.
The other finalists were Juan Goytisolo of Spain; James Kelman
of Scotland;  Amin Maalouf  of Lebanon;  David Malouf  of Australia;
 Dacia Maraini  of Italy;  Rohinton Mistry , an Indian-born Canadian
author; Su Tong and Wang Anyi of China; and Anne Tyler of the
U.S.  Callil’s comments about Roth marked the second controversy
in the contest since the finalists were announced in March. At
the time, le Carre asked to be removed from the competition,
saying he doesn’t compete for literary awards. Gekoski, the
judging panel chairman, said his name would remain on the list.  Roth’s prize will be celebrated at a formal dinner in
London on June 28 2011. The contest is sponsored by hedge-fund
manager  Man Group Plc (EMG) , which also funds the Man  Booker Prize  for
Fiction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 