-- 
U.S. Defends Health-Care Coverage Mandate

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-05-18T18:32:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/obama-administration-defends-insurance-requirement-in-health-care-appeal.html
The Obama administration defended its
health-care legislation’s minimum-coverage mandate in a court
filing that sets the stage for next month’s appeal hearing over
a U.S. judge’s decision to strike down the law.  A federal appeals court in Atlanta on June 8 will hear
argument from attorneys for the U.S. and for 26 states that sued
successfully to void the Patient Protection and Affordable Care
Act signed into law by President  Barack Obama  in March 2010.  The U.S. is appealing Judge C. Roger Vinson’s Jan. 31
ruling that the mandate compelling most Americans to obtain
coverage starting in 2014 exceeds Congress’s power to regulate
commerce. The Pensacola, Florida, judge concluded that without
that requirement the remainder of the act was unworkable and
invalid.  “In regulating the means by which individuals pay for
health care, Congress dealt with the reality that all people are
at risk of injury and illness,” and the legislative branch has
the constitutional power to require people to procure coverage,
according to the U.S. brief filed today.  The states have urged the appeals court to uphold Vinson’s
ruling.  “The act imposes a direct mandate upon individuals to
obtain health insurance, marking by all accounts the first time
in our nation‘s history that Congress has required individuals
to enter into commerce as a condition of living in the  United
States ,” the states said in a May 4 filing.  Appeals Court Hearings  The Atlanta-based court will be the third federal appeals
court to hear argument over the legality of the legislation. The
 U.S. Court of Appeals  in Richmond,  Virginia  on May 10 heard
arguments on the appeals of rulings by two federal judges in
that state, one of whom upheld the act’s constitutionality and
another who held the individual mandate portion alone invalid.  A U.S. appellate panel in Cincinnati is set to hear
arguments June 1 in an appeal by  Thomas More Law Center , a
nonprofit law group that advocates for Christian values, of a
Detroit federal judge’s ruling last year upholding the law.  Inconsistent decisions rendered by the three appellate
panels may set the stage for later review by the U.S. Supreme
Court.  The case is State of  Florida  v.  U.S. Department of Health 
and Human Services, 11-11021, U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th
Circuit (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  