-- 
Obama to Offer Blueprint for U.S. Relationship to a Changing Middle East

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-05-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/obama-to-offer-new-u-s-plan-in-middle-east.html
Five months into a wave of
transformation across the Arab world, President  Barack Obama 
plans to offer a fresh blueprint for the U.S. role in the Middle
East and North Africa at a moment both defining and uncertain.  The seminal events in the region and the death of al-Qaeda
leader Osama bin Laden at the hands of U.S. Navy SEALs give
Obama an inflection point to seize what his spokesman called a
“moment of opportunity” in a speech tomorrow at the State
Department.  The address carries risks for Obama as he weighs in on a
still evolving upheaval that has turned bloody in Libya, Syria
and Yemen. He will also be speaking to audiences that range from
the Arab masses protesting in the streets to government leaders
in the region to domestic critics of the U.S. military
intervention in  Libya  and continued presence in  Afghanistan .  “The president has to balance America’s support for
popular uprisings and demands for more representative and
accountable governments in the Middle East with the fundamental
interest in maintaining regional stability,” said Haim Malka,
deputy director of the Middle East program at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in Washington.  It was almost two years ago in Cairo that Obama called for
a “new beginning” with the Muslim world. His efforts at
outreach haven’t translated into more favorable views of the
U.S. or of Obama, according to a  Pew Research Center poll 
conducted in  Egypt , Jordan,  Pakistan ,  Turkey , Israel and the
Palestinian territories.  Israeli-Palestinian Conflict  The U.S. president received his lowest marks for his
handling of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, the March 21-April
26 survey showed.  While White House press secretary  Jay Carney  described the
speech as “much broader” than just a discussion of the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict, Obama will have to include a
substantive look at that situation, said  Jon Alterman , a former
member of the State Department’s policy planning staff.  “I don’t think he can give a major Middle East speech and
not touch on a core issue, this conflict,” said Alterman, now
director of the Middle East program at the  Center for Strategic
and International Studies  in Washington. With the resignation
last week of his special envoy to the Middle East, George Mitchell, Obama “has to say more than the minimum,” Alterman
said.  Obama’s address is bracketed by White House meetings with
King Abdullah II of Jordan yesterday and Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu on May 20. Netanyahu said this week that
clashes with Arab demonstrators along  Israel ’s borders with the
West Bank, Syria, Lebanon and the  Gaza Strip  show that changes
sweeping the Arab world pose risks for Israel.  Divided on Approach  The president’s advisers have been divided about how to
address the stalled  peace process , said an administration
official who requested anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to
speak about internal administration matters.  One side, represented by Vice President Joe Biden, national
security adviser Tom Donilon and Dennis Ross, a special adviser
on the Persian Gulf, has argued that Obama should avoid
specifics in his remarks and that the coming election season
makes it too difficult for the U.S. to pursue a peace settlement
now, the official said.  Others, including Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , want
Obama to present a plan that lays out a settlement in clear
terms and with actionable steps, the official said.  Higher Stakes  Marwan Muasher, a former foreign minister of Jordan, said
Middle East upheaval has raised the stakes for the
administration.  “The Arab uprisings have made movement on the Arab-Israeli
conflict even more important because the United States cannot
pursue a policy that sides with the Egyptians and Libyans, that
sides with the people in their search for freedom, and not with
the Palestinians,” said Muasher, now a vice president at the
 Carnegie Endowment for International Peace , a  Washington  policy
group.  After meeting with Abdullah yesterday, Obama said the
turmoil in the region means “it’s more vital than ever that
both Israelis and Palestinians find a way to get back to the
table.”  The anti-government protests in the region have helped push
 oil prices  up 41 percent over the past year on concern that
major oil-producing countries such as  Saudi Arabia  may be
affected. Crude for June delivery rose as much as $1.09 to $98 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  As the uprisings toppled rulers in Egypt and Tunisia and
shook the governments in Libya, Bahrain, Syria and Yemen, Obama
has said it is up to the people of the Arab world to determine
their futures.  Differing Responses  The administration’s calibrated responses to each country
have alienated some Arab partners. Obama called for Egyptian
president  Hosni Mubarak , a long-time ally, to step down. He has
yet to call for regime change in  Syria , where the government of
President Bashar al-Assad has violently cracked down on
protesters.  In Cairo, Obama “promised a new beginning,”  Salman
Shaikh , director of the  Brookings Doha Center  in Qatar, said in
an interview. “Now it’s time for him to suggest a new beginning
with the Arab people, not just the governments.”  Challenge with Syria  The U.S. response to Syria presents a particular challenge
for the administration, said  Aaron David Miller , a former
Mideast peace negotiator and State Department official who is
now a fellow at the  Woodrow Wilson International Center  in
Washington.  “Yes, there is a limited amount that can be done in Syria,
given staunch opposition from China and  Russia  in the United
Nations  Security Council , but still, the differences have been
glaring even when taking into account that each situation is
different,” Miller said.  Obama’s speech, which will be translated simultaneously
from English into Arabic, Farsi and Hebrew, will also cover
economic and political reforms emerging out of the turmoil,
Carney said.  “The administration sees these events as a turning point
in history,” said Malka. “And they’re trying to figure out
what role the U.S. should play in it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  