-- 
Obama Honors Coast Guard Grads for Risks, U.S. Devotion

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-05-19T00:45:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/obama-thanks-coast-guard-academy-graduates-for-devotion-to-duty.html
President  Barack Obama  told this
year’s graduating class of the U.S. Coast Guard Academy that
they are joining a service with a long tradition devoted to
risk-taking while serving the U.S. from the nation’s waterways
to oceans a world away.  “Today is a celebration of your success” as cadets who
are now ready to report for duty on missions such as rescuing
Americans from flood waters, aiding in environmental cleanups
and battling piracy off the coast of Somalia, the president told
229 graduates of the  U.S. Coast Guard Academy , a waterfront
campus on the banks of the Thames River in  New London ,
 Connecticut .  “None of these missions is easy and none are without
risk,” Obama said. “This is the life and risk you’ve chosen to
accept.”  The president was making his third and final commencement
speech of the year, following earlier addresses to a college in
 Florida  and a high school in  Tennessee . He also attended two
fundraising appearances in Boston tonight to help fill coffers
for his 2012 re-election campaign.  The academy marked its 130th invitation-only commencement
ceremony as Obama presented commissions to the Coast Guard’s
newest ensigns. Presidents traditionally address the graduating
class at one of the service academies on a rotating basis.  Smallest Academy  “I’ve seen your devotion to duty” during the cleanup of
the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the  Gulf of Mexico , Obama
said. The breadth of the Coast Guard mission was evident, he
said, when he ran across a Coast Guard officer at Bagram Air
Base in  Afghanistan .  “There was no ocean in sight, not a body of water
anywhere, but the Coast Guard was there, serving with honor,”
he said.  The 135-year-old institution is the smallest of the five
service academies; this year’s graduating class had 67 women and
162 men. Each cadet, after training in one of eight major
subject areas, must perform five years of active duty service
upon graduation.  ‘Dings and Dents’  In  Boston , Obama raised money at two  Democratic National
Committee  events.  The first, a reception for about 900 supporters at the
Cyclorama at the Boston Center for the Arts, featured Boston
Celtics legend Bill Russell, 77, a five-time NBA Most Valuable
Player and a 12-time All-Star, and Celtics All-Star Ray Allen,
35, one of the most accurate free-throw shooters in National
Basketball Association history.  “I’m a little grayer; I’ve got a few dings and dents,”
Obama told a noisy crowd. Yet, he said, the economy is
recovering, there are new investments in education and clean
energy, there are two more women on the  Supreme Court , the war
in Iraq is ending and “Osama bin Linden will never again
threaten” the U.S.  The president acknowledged frustrations, stumbles and
setbacks, noting that “we knew this would not be easy.” He
said his vision for a second term is one where “we’re living
within our means, but still investing in America.”  “Change is hard, change takes time, but it’s possible,”
he said. “It should inspire us to finish what we started.”  Wealthy Donors  The second event, a dinner with 130 supporters, was held at
the home of Jack Connors, chairman emeritus of  Hill Holliday , a
marketing and communications company whose clients include  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) , Dunkin’ Donuts Inc. and Chili’s, according to
the company website. The eight-bedroom, six-fireplace brick
home, assessed at $4.8 million, is in the Boston suburb of
Brookline, Massachusetts.  Connors told those in attendance that the event raised $2.2
million.  Addressing the wealthy donors, Obama said he had spent two
and half years cleaning up “a big mess,” adding that the
economy is coming back and “the stock market’s doubled.”  He said of the 2012 campaign: “It will be hard, it will be
rocky, there will be some setbacks. We’re not as new, but the
commitments are the same.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Brookline,  Massachusetts , at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  