-- 
Emissions Offsets ‘Crowding Out’ EU Utility Demand for Carbon, Orbeo Says

-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-05-19T16:57:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/offsets-are-crowding-out-utility-demand-for-european-carbon-orbeo-says.html
Demand for European Union carbon
futures by power utilities may be lower than expected this year
as generators make more use of offsets from the United Nations
program, according to Orbeo.  Utilities are buying or holding UN Certified Emission
Reductions for compliance use during the next two years, said
 Emmanuel Fages , a Paris-based analyst for Orbeo, the carbon
venture of Rhodia SA and Societe Generale SA. “They are buying
less EU allowances because they are crowded out by the CERs,”
Fages said yesterday by phone.  The European Commission in Brussels, which regulates the
market, plans to start selling 2013 permits late this year at
the earliest. In the meantime, utilities must use permits issued
through 2012 for hedging purposes. Some generators start selling
power three years ahead of production. The carbon program is the
world’s biggest greenhouse-gas market by traded volume.  A surge in emission offset supply hasn’t boosted trading
activity to the same degree, signaling that projects may be
holding onto CERs, according to figures from exchanges and
brokers. Regulators have granted 120 million offsets this year,
more than double the 47 million in the same period a year ago,
according to data from the Bonn-based UN Framework Convention on
 Climate Change .  This year, open interest for CERs contracts through March
2013 on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London, the biggest
carbon market, had risen by 37 million metric tons as of
yesterday. There was 14 million tons of spot trading of CERs on
the BlueNext exchange in Paris this year, the biggest prompt
market.  Intermediary Trade  CER trade handled by intermediaries has fallen as a portion
of the total carbon market to 17 percent in April from an
average 26 percent in the first four months of the year,
according to data from the  London Energy Brokers Association .  “I think that we could reach a tipping point where CER
issuance exceeds daily market demand,” which could make them
more heavily discounted, Andrew Ager, the  London  head of
emissions at Prudential Financial Inc.’s Bache Commodities Ltd.,
said yesterday in an e-mail.  Orbeo’s Fages forecasts EU carbon will rise to 17 euros in
the fourth quarter of this year from today’s price of 16.50
euros on ICE as of 5:33 p.m. local time. CERs for December were
at 12.48 euros a ton. The spread between them narrowed 1.3
percent today to 3.96 euros, the smallest since May 5.  Trevor Sikorski , an analyst for  Barclays Capital  in London,
forecast last month that EU allowances will rise to 21 euros in
the second half of this year, partly because of increased
utility hedging. CERs will probably rise to 16 euros, he said.  RWE Hedging  RWE AG (RWE) , the region’s biggest emitter, will probably hedge
about 30 percent of its 2013 power in the nine months through
Dec. 31 this year, more than last year, Tschach Solutions GmbH,
a supplier of carbon-market data, said May 12.  The Essen, Germany-based utility hedged about 20 percent of
its 2012 power in the same period last year, said Jan Frommeyer,
Tschach Solutions’ joint managing director. It has curbed its
forward buying this year and last, compared with 2008 and 2009,
as the profit from burning coal for power dropped, he said.  “With estimated emissions of 150 million tons in 2013 and
no free allocation, this would mean RWE would need to procure 45
million tons of EU allowances in the last three quarters of 2011
for the hedge of its 2013 power production alone,” Frommeyer
said at the time. RWE received most of its carbon allowances for
free in the five years through 2012 and needs to buy them for
power produced after that year.  Because they are cheaper, utilities can make higher profits
from using UN CERs rather than EU allowances. The profit from
burning coal and gas for power “is relevant” to RWE’s hedging
strategy, said Brigitte Lambertz, a spokeswoman. “We only sell
electricity to the amount that the capacity is in the money,”
she said today in an e-mailed response to questions.  Projects in which RWE is a buyer have received 48 million
tons of CERs since the UN program began handing them out in
October 2005, according to UN data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  