-- 
JPMorgan Says Crude Oil, Gold to Drive Rebound in Commodities on Shortages

-- B y   K i m   K y o u n g w h a
-- 
2011-05-18T08:48:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/oil-gold-to-help-commodities-ride-out-economic-headwinds-jpmorgan-says.html
Crude oil and gold will lead a rally
in commodities as production fails to keep pace with demand,
said Ray Eyles, chief executive officer of  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s commodity business in Asia.  Oil supply will trail consumption in the second half as the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other
producers won’t increase output fast enough, the bank said in a
report May 6. Rabobank Groep expects shortages in corn and
cotton this year while  Barclays Capital  is predicting deficits
in copper, nickel, tin, lead and platinum.  “Ultimately, the long-term fundamental supply and demand
of commodities is still pointing to higher prices,” Eyles said
in an interview. “The commodities that have the best underlying
fundamental stories at the moment” are in energy because of
unrest in the Middle East and  Japan ’s nuclear crisis, he said.  Crude has more than tripled since December 2008 and gold
doubled, with the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities
beating stocks, bonds and the dollar for five straight months
through April, the longest run in at least 14 years. That kept
global food costs near a record, prompting central banks from
Brasilia to Beijing to raise  interest rates  and helping spur
conflict and riots in the Middle East and North  Africa .  June-delivery oil traded at $98.56 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  today after the most active contract touched
$114.83 this month, the highest level since 2008.  Supply Limited  Precious metals will benefit the most from a “strong
interest” in diversification and inflation and currency hedges,
he said May 16. “What people tend to underestimate is how
strong and how far the market can go when there is a limited
supply to match a very heavy demand,” he said. Gold stored in
the bank’s vault in Singapore is “rapidly increasing,” he said.  Cash gold touched a record $1,577.57 an ounce on May 2 and
is up 5.2 percent this year after a 30 percent rally in 2010.  The S&P GSCI Index slumped 11 percent in the first week of
May on signs of an economic slowdown after climbing 20 percent
through April and more than doubling since the start of 2009.  “In the short-term, the macro landscape seems to have
taken a turn,” said Eyles, referring to signs of a slowing
global economy,  China ’s monetary tightening and the European
debt crisis. That’s weighing on industrial metals, he said.
Copper declined 6.7 percent this year on the London Metal
Exchange and zinc dropped 12 percent.  Investor Demand  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in reports on April 11 and April
15 told investors to be “underweight” commodities in the next
three to six months. The bank still expects commodities to
advance about 10 percent over the next 12 months.  JPMorgan, the second-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, has
joined Citigroup Inc.,  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  and Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in boosting staff and business in
Asia to profit from investment and hedging demand. The number of
clients in  Asia  has grown 50 percent after the acquisition of
RBS Sempra Commodities LLP in 2010, it said.  Eyles, 41, who joined the bank in 1988, said the operations
in Asia had about 100 employees across sales, trading, research,
warehousing and physical business. The bank won the top spot in
the 2011 rankings by Asia Risk magazine of energy and commodity
derivatives brokers and dealers in the region.  Formerly chief executive of commodities for  Europe , Middle
East and Africa, Eyles said the bank is seeking to expand its
physical trading of copper, aluminum and zinc to include gold in
China, a country that it considers an important priority.  “We continue to build our gas, coal and power franchises
in the region as well as physical oil and investor businesses,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in  Singapore  at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  