-- 
Longtop Short-Sellers Show Mistrust Hurts China IPO Market

-- B y   D u n e   L a w r e n c e ,   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-05-18T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/longtop-short-sellers-show-mistrust-undermines-china-ipo-market.html
The blog post accusing  Longtop
Financial Technologies Ltd. (LFT)  of fraud appeared April 26.  The Hong Kong-based maker of financial software, whose 2007
initial public offering was underwritten by  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and which had 11 analyst “buy”
ratings, was no match for investor skepticism. Shares slumped 31
percent in a two-day rout that left them at the lowest since
March 2009. Yesterday, a day after Nasdaq trading was  suspended ,
the company announced it wouldn’t file financial statements on
May 23 as previously planned. It didn’t set a new date.  Longtop’s slide suggests that short-sellers’ allegations of
accounting irregularities at smaller Chinese companies that
bought their way into U.S. listings are now dragging down the
market for larger Chinese IPOs. Renren Inc., a Beijing-based
social-networking company, and the 11 other firms that completed
offerings in  New York  this year posted an average offer-to-date
loss of 6.3 percent compared with a 5.9 percent gain from all
U.S. IPOs, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s an integrity and confidence issue, and concern that
there are these bad-apple companies taints the entire basket of
Chinese companies, including those seeking to IPO,” said Rocky Lee, Beijing-based Asia managing partner for law firm Cadwalader
Wickersham & Taft LLP, who has worked on more than a dozen U.S.
listings by Chinese firms in the last year. “Even IPOs
underwritten by major investment banks have felt the impact.”  Revoked Registrations  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has revoked the
registrations of eight China-based companies since December, and
more than 24 firms have disclosed auditor resignations or
accounting problems to the agency since March, SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  wrote in an April 27 letter. The SEC launched an
investigation last year into Chinese companies’ use of reverse
mergers, in which a closely held firm acquires one that’s
publicly traded, enabling it to sell shares without the
regulatory and investor scrutiny of an IPO.  Kevin Pollack, a  fund manager  at New York-based Paragon
Capital LP who invests in U.S.-listed Chinese stocks, said
companies planning public offerings in New York “face an
unprecedented environment of distrust.”  “The negative sentiment on reverse-merger companies has
bled into Chinese IPOs,” Pollack said.  Plans Postponed  Lee said he knows of six Chinese companies that have
postponed plans to sell shares in New York, and the turbulence
has made some wary of doing IPOs in the U.S., according to Ling
Liu, managing director of  Cathay Capital Holdings LP , a $1
billion private-equity fund that invests in Chinese companies.  “When the U.S. is brought up, people are worried about
what they will face when they get to the public market,” said
Liu, who is based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “They’re more
hesitant to pick the U.S., so  Hong Kong  seems to have become the
first choice now.”  Longtop raised $210 million in October 2007, and shares hit
a high of $42.73 last November. They have declined 56 percent
since, cutting the company’s market value by more than $1
billion, amid allegations by  Citron Research  and  OLP Global LLC 
that Longtop inflated margins by hiding expenses and underpaying
employee benefits through a related-party staffing firm.  Derek Palaschuk, Longtop’s chief financial officer, said on
a call with analysts April 28 that Citron had compared Longtop’s
profit margins with firms that aren’t “direct competitors” and
that the company would defend itself against “these absolutely
baseless allegations.” Longtop also said on the call that it
would double a share buyback.  Short-Seller Bets  An OLP report on May 9 prompted Longtop to issue a press
release the following day saying it “does not have unrecorded
liabilities related to social welfare payments” and that the
staffing company isn’t related. The statement said Longtop’s
decision not to have more than 20 percent of its staff
contracted through third-party firms, announced in March, is
“margin neutral.”  While the firm’s response sent shares up 7.9 percent on May
10, short-sellers increased bets against Longtop to 20 percent
of shares available for trading as of May 16, up from 4.1
percent at the beginning of the year and the most since it went
public, according to Data Explorers, a New York-based research
firm. Bearish wagers against the stock were at 12 percent of the
float on April 25, the day before the Citron report.  Fidelity, Tiger  Longtop’s biggest shareholders as of March 31 included
mutual-fund investor Fidelity Management & Research Co., which
held 12.9 percent of the shares; Maverick Capital Ltd., a New
York-based hedge fund founded by  Lee Ainslie  that reported a 9.9
percent stake; and Tiger Global Management LLC with 4.5 percent.
Investment firms Lone Pine Capital LLC and Eton Park Capital
Management LP exited positions in the company in the first
quarter, according to SEC filings.  An investor-relations adviser for Longtop who declined to
be named citing company policy said Palaschuk wouldn’t comment
further until after the firm announced annual earnings.  Short-sellers were trading against “buy” recommendations
made by 10 of 13 brokerages rating the stock as of May 18,
including IPO underwriters Deutsche Bank and Goldman Sachs. The
average target price estimated by the 10 analysts who set one is
$43.20, a 128 percent gain from the most recent price.  John Gallagher , a spokesman for Deutsche Bank in New York,
and  Andrea Rachman , a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs, said they
couldn’t answer questions about Longtop.  Renren Resignation  Palaschuk, who was supposed to become chairman of the audit
committee of Renren after its share offering on May 4, stepped
aside before the IPO. He said he wanted to protect Renren,
 China ’s biggest social-networking website by page views, from
being linked with the fraud allegations against Longtop,
according to a Reuters report.  Caroline Straathof, a spokeswoman for Renren, said
Palaschuk’s decision not to take a board seat was for “reasons
totally unrelated” to the company.  Renren raised $854.9 million in its IPO. Shares surged on
the first day of trading to $18.01 from $14. They have since
fallen to $13.70. Short interest on the company’s shares has
surged to 16 percent of outstanding shares as of May 16, and the
stock is among the most expensive U.S. equities for short
sellers to borrow and bet against, according to Data Explorers.  Longtop and Renren represent an expansion of short-selling
pressure beyond stocks listed by reverse mergers, also known as
reverse takeovers, or RTOs.  Exposing Fraud  “To think the fraud in the U.S.-listed Chinese stocks is
limited to the RTO market is naive,” said Andrew Left, founder
and owner of Los Angeles-based Citron Research, in his April 26
report on Longtop. Left, who said his firm is focused on
exposing fraud, wouldn’t say if he held short positions in
Longtop or other stocks.  The National Futures Association, a self-regulatory
organization,  barred  Left from working as a futures broker for
three years in 1998 after finding that he made false and
misleading statements to cheat a customer. Left, who was 23 at
the time of the conduct at issue, says he was operating off a
sales script at a job he held for five months.  Citron has also targeted Sky-Mobi Ltd., a seller of mobile
applications based in Hangzhou, China, saying in a May 3 report
that the company “manipulated the truth to hide their dying
business model.” Sky-Mobi doesn’t have the market position it
claims as the biggest mobile-application store in China, its
average revenue per download has slumped, and more than 80
percent of registered members are inactive, the report said.  Sky-Mobi fell 25 percent on its first day of trading on
Dec. 10, after an IPO underwritten by  Citigroup Inc. (C)  raised $58
million, pricing at the bottom of the forecast range. Shares are
up 44 percent from the offer price as of yesterday’s close.  ‘Questionable’ Research  Accusations made on internet bulletin boards and blogs are
often unsubstantiated, said Sky-Mobi CFO Carl Yeung, who worked
for Merrill Lynch & Co. in Hong Kong before taking Nasdaq-traded
ATA Inc. public in 2008 as the Beijing-based testing-services
company’s top financial officer.  “The intention of these bloggers is to nitpick selective
issues and put together a story that can put pressure on the
stock price, but the extent of their research is questionable,”
Yeung said. “I’m a firm believer in U.S. capital markets --
they’re still the most attractive and innovative. But I believe
regulators should step up their scrutiny of foreign companies
that want to get access.”  Mecox Lane  Shareholders of  Mecox Lane Ltd. (MCOX) , a Shanghai-based online
apparel retailer that had an IPO in October, sued the firm,
alleging the company misled investors by not disclosing declines
in margins and an increase in operating expenses for the third
quarter of 2010. They also sued underwriters  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN)  and UBS AG for not conducting adequate due diligence. Mecox
Lane said in a December press release that the complaint “lacks
any merit.” The shares are trading on Nasdaq at less than half
the October offer price.  Cherry Yan, director of public relations for Mecox Lane,
declined to comment because the company is in a “silence
period” as a result of the lawsuit.  Bloggers have also attacked  Youku.com Inc. (YOKU) , owner of
China’s biggest online-video site.  Little Al’s Big Emerging
Market Picks , which has published short-selling reports about
several Chinese reverse mergers, took aim at the Beijing-based
company in January for what it said was its undeserved valuation
a month after an IPO underwritten by Goldman Sachs.  Short interest in Youku stands at 31 percent of outstanding
stock, and its shares are among the most expensive for short-
sellers to borrow, according to Data Explorers. A spokeswoman
for the firm in Beijing wasn’t available to comment.  Underperforming S&P  Chinese companies that have gone public in the U.S. this
year have underperformed the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index by 6
percent on average from their first trading day through May 17,
according to Bloomberg data. Companies that had U.S. IPOs this
year outperformed the benchmark index by 5.5 percent.  That reflects, in part, a concern that China’s central bank
will add to four interest-rate increases since mid-October to
cool inflation. The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the
bigger of China’s stock exchanges, has advanced 2.3 percent this
year, trailing the MSCI AC World Index’s gain of 4.1 percent.  Still, 11 companies from mainland China that listed in Hong
Kong in 2011 returned an average 5.7 percent since their first
trading date, compared with a less than 0.1 percent gain for all
18 stocks that debuted there this year.  Marketplace ‘Adjustment’  “There has been an adjustment in the whole marketplace,”
said John J. Borer III, head of  investment banking  at Rodman &
Renshaw Capital Group Inc. in New York, which has co-managed
offerings for Chinese companies, including Sky-Mobi. “Our view
is and remains that the Chinese market is unstoppable. It’s
going to be fantastic over time, but whether their companies go
public here or somewhere else is a question.”  That enthusiasm is shared by Scott Billeadeau, who invests
in IPOs and helps oversee $18 billion at Fifth Third Asset
Management Inc. in  Minneapolis .  “I look at these IPOs on an issue-by-issue basis,”
Billeadeau said. “There are still huge opportunities in China,
but you have to keep the risks in mind and do your homework.”  Eric Jackson, a founding and managing member of Ironfire
Capital LLC, a Naples, Florida-based hedge fund, said oversight
of IPO deals “is much higher” than for reverse mergers.  “There may be a couple of bad apples among the IPOs, but
it’s not comparable to the reverse-merger space,” said Jackson,
whose fund is betting against Youku and investing in internet
firms Sina Corp. and Baidu Inc.  ‘Lottery Ticket’  The U.S. market remains the only option for many Chinese
companies, especially high-tech startups backed by  venture
capital , according to Josef Schuster, founder of Chicago-based
IPOX Capital Management LLC, which oversees about $2.5 billion
invested in global IPOs.  “The U.S. IPO market has always been more speculative and
thus more receptive of these Chinese companies that will not be
able to go public elsewhere,” Schuster said. “Most of the
internet companies came to list here because people are more
willing to buy the idea and believe in higher valuations after
seeing legendary successes such as Baidu.”  Baidu, China’s most popular search engine, raised $122
million in August 2005. The shares rocketed 354 percent on the
first day, and the Beijing-based company now trades at almost 50
times its debut price.  “People always hope to get the big lottery ticket,” said
Schuster. “But you don’t end up getting it most of the time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Dune Lawrence in New York at 
 dlawrence6@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net  