-- 
Unabomber Kaczynski’s Anti-Tech ‘Manifesto’ Is for Sale Online

-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 
2011-05-19T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/low-tech-unabomber-kaczynski-s-belongings-going-to-high-tech-bidders.html
The Unabomber’s “Manifesto,” in
which Theodore Kaczynski railed against encroaching technology,
is being sold using the wizardry of the Internet.  It is a “great irony,”  Shyam K. Reddy , regional
administrator for the U.S. General Services Administration, said
yesterday in Atlanta, where the killer’s memorabilia are on
display.  The handwritten rough draft of the Manifesto, each page
slipped into a plastic sleeve, stands four inches high on Table
11 in a glass-walled room of an Atlanta office building. It is
Lot 2. The final, typed version is nearby, labeled Lot 1.  The GSA and the U.S. Marshals Service yesterday  opened
bidding  on those and hundreds of other items that once belonged
to Kaczynski,  arrested in 1996  after an 18-year manhunt for the
bomber who killed three people and injured 23 others.  The goods  were laid out on tables with deep blue
tablecloths alongside display stands for documents and a coat
rack for clothing.  Kaczynski, 68, a former  mathematics  professor, is serving a
life sentence without the possibility of parole in a super-
maximum security prison in Florence,  Colorado . And he is still
challenging the government’s right to sell his stuff.  The auction, which ends on June 2, was ordered by a federal
judge to benefit Kaczynski’s victims. The GSA yesterday showed
the news media items arranged in a roomy, ground floor space in
the building housing the GSA.  The dark gray hoodie and sunglasses, once sketched for a
“Wanted” poster, are now worn by a black, inflatable upper
torso sitting on a display table.  Books, Diploma  Bidders can go to  http://gsaauctions.gov  to  buy  Kaczynski’s
handwritten autobiography, his bows and arrows, his code book
for understanding his other writings. You can buy his Harvard
University diploma, a note from his mother, praise from a
professor for his thesis.  “To go inside the mind of a serial bomber, it’s
incredible,”  Terry D. Turchie , a former FBI counterterrorism
expert who for four years directed the federal Unabom  task
force , said at the auction.  The GSA is used to auctioning off diamonds and
Lamborghinis, beach-front condos and well-appointed mansions
seized from Wall Street fraudsters and drug traffickers. It
sometimes hires private auctioneers to conduct the sale. Bernard L. Madoff’s wine cellar went on sale yesterday, also online,
with proceeds to be distributed to his Ponzi scheme victims.  When the bad guy is a recluse who lived in a 10-by-12-foot
cabin in the Montana woods, picked berries and hunted woodland
creatures for food, no Bentleys turn up. The government does the
best it can.  Edible Moss  Hence Kaczynski’s handwritten instructions on how “to make
reindeer moss edible” is available for purchase.  Not available are instructions or materials for making
bombs, nor his guns. His cabin’s out, too, as it’s on display at
the Newseum in Washington, D.C.  The items don’t come with a dealer’s estimated sale price
as in some auctions.  Never before has the government had a collection like the
Unabomber’s to sell. Officials questioned experts but came up
with no idea as to how much it’s worth.  “There’s not a Blue Book on this,” said Reddy, referring
to a price guide to cars. “We’re creating the first market for
these assets today.”  At the end of the first day, the highest bid for the hand-
written Manifesto stood at $10,050, making it the most valuable
item. The hoodie and sunglasses were next at $3,125.  The sale evolved from a court order that the essentially
penniless Kaczynski pay $15 million in restitution to his
victims as part of his sentence. A legal tug of war began in
2003 between him and the government over what should go to whom.  Donation Goal  Assistant U.S. Attorney David Shelledy said Kaczynski was
seeking to donate his writings to the  University of Michigan .
That’s where he did his graduate and postgraduate work.  The upshot was a ruling from the federal appeals court in
 San Francisco  that says the government has the right to sell
much of the property for victim restitution.  Kaczynski, acting as his own lawyer, last week filed urgent
requests in federal courts to stop the auction, at least of some
items.  His requests are “entirely insubstantial on the merits,”
said Shelledy, who is based in  Sacramento , California, and
represents the government in the case.  Neither the district court nor the appeals court has ruled.
They know about the auction and can stop it if they want to,
Shelledy said.  Bidders might include “libraries, museums, collectors,
businesses, schools, anyone who wants a piece of history,” the
GSA’s Reddy said.  Anonymous Buyers  “There may be other folks interested for different
reasons,” he said. Buyers’ names won’t be made public, said
Lynzey Donahue, a Marshals Service spokeswoman.  Kaczynski’s victims included Hugh Scrutton, a 38-year-old
 California  computer store owner killed in 1985 by a nail-and-
splinter-loaded bomb placed in the parking lot of his store.  A similar attack against a computer store occurred in  Salt
Lake City  in 1987. The bomb, disguised as a piece of lumber,
injured Gary Wright when he attempted to remove it from the
store’s parking lot.  Asked the difference between making money off a serial
killer and trafficking in Nazi memorabilia, Reddy said this sale
will benefit victims.  As for glorifying the Unabomber, that’s already happened
without the government’s help, said  Kathleen Puckett , a
behavioral expert who, while at the FBI, worked with the
investigators and victims.  “He is an international phenomenon,” she said. As for his
victims, “I wouldn’t say any of them are comfortable with
this,” because they want it to be over.  “They want this to be the final reconciliation for them,”
Puckett said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ann Woolner  in Atlanta
at   awoolner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 