-- 
Lloyds Says Additional Branch Sales Not Part of EU-U.K. Deal

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-05-18T15:43:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/lloyds-chairman-says-daniels-bonus-reflected-restraint-1-.html
A legal agreement between  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , the European Union and the British government
capped branch sales at 600 and not “even one branch more,”
according to the bank’s Chairman Win Bischoff  Lloyds was told 18 months ago to sell the outlets by
November 2013 as part of an agreement with the EU following its
receipt of more than 20 billion pounds ($32 billion) of taxpayer
aid during the financial crisis. Last month, the British-
government appointed  Independent Commission on Banking  proposed
that the London-based bank sell “substantially” more outlets.  “We’ve made a deal which is 600, anything, even one branch
more is obviously not,” said Bischoff in an interview at the
bank’s annual general meeting of shareholders in Glasgow today.
“There is a legal agreement which was made between Brussels”
the U.K. Treasury and the bank, he added.  The  EU agreement  stated in November 2009 that the bank must
sell “at least” 600 branches in  England  and Wales and give up
4.6 percent of its share of the U.K. checking account market.
The bank is seeking “evidence” from the ICB “which would
suggest that a substantial increase would be justified,”
Bischoff said.  Lloyds plans to find a buyer for the 600 branches, termed
“Project Verde” by the bank, before the end of the year,
Bischoff said.  Separately, Bischoff said the bank showed “restraint” by
trimming the bonus paid to former Chief Executive Officer  Eric Daniels .  “The remuneration committee considered the substantial
progress that has been achieved in 2010 under Eric’s
leadership,” Bischoff said. “At the same time, we felt it was
appropriate to show restraint and accordingly we reduced his
bonus to less than he would otherwise have been paid.”  ‘Substantially Less’  Daniels is entitled to 2.57 million pounds ($4.16 million)
in pay and bonuses for 2010, the London-based bank said in its
annual report. The bonus amounted to 1.45 million pounds
compared with a maximum possible of 2.33 million pounds, a
spokesman said today. That was “substantially less than the
maximum,” Bischoff said.  Daniels, 59, led the bank’s takeover of HBOS Plc, the
U.K.’s biggest mortgage lender in 2008, whose losses led the
bank to cede a 41 percent stake to the government and seek a
taxpayer-funded bailout. He was replaced by Antonio Horta- Osorio, 47, in March.  Private shareholders criticized of the board and
particularly bonus payments to executive directors.  “When someone makes a mistake you don’t keep him on and
pay him a bonus,” said shareholder David Harrison at the
meeting.  Remuneration Vote  Shareholders voted 91.9 percent in favor of the bank’s
remuneration report today, almost the same as last year’s vote
giving 91.5 percent support.   Lloyds reported a net loss of 2.4 billion pounds in the
first quarter of this year after setting aside 3.2 billion
pounds to compensate clients who were improperly sold loan
insurance.  “We have given Eric no more than he was entitled to under
legal contract,” Bischoff said. According to a bank
spokeswoman, Daniels had not yet decided whether to accept the
bonus award. Bonuses “are a result of performance,” said Tony
Watson of the Lloyds remuneration committee.  Lloyds closed 0.2 percent lower at 53.6 pence in  London 
today and has declined by 18 percent in the year to date, the
worst performance in the FTSE 350 Index of Britain’s five
biggest banks.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  