-- 
Pandit May Get a $42 Million Retention Award If Citigroup Meets Estimates

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-05-19T15:26:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/pandit-to-get-incentive-pay-valued-at-16-7-million-if-citigroup-goals-met.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  Chief Executive
Officer Vikram Pandit stands to collect at least $42 million
under his new retention-pay formula, assuming the bank’s
earnings meet analysts’ estimates.  Pandit will get more than $16 million plus  stock options  if
Citigroup hits its own, lower performance target for 2012,
according to a regulatory filing by the bank yesterday. The
package also includes $6.65 million in cash paid over time as a
form of profit-sharing. If earnings next year reach the level
analysts already expect, that portion of his payout will
quadruple to about $26 million, based on the bank’s formula.  Pandit, who became CEO in December 2007, told Congress in
February 2009 that he would slash his salary to $1 a year until
the bank returned to profitability. Citigroup had more than $29
billion in losses during his first two full years in charge. The
New York-based lender has since reported a $13.6 billion profit
for the five quarters through the end of March. The board
increased his salary to $1.75 million in January.  “Mr. Pandit has steered the company through the credit
crisis and returned them to sustained profitability,” said Pri de Silva, an analyst in  New York  with CreditSights Inc.
“Providing incentives to keep him on board makes sense,
especially someone who has demonstrated the ability to steer the
company through a tumultuous time.”  Share Performance  Citigroup shares are down 88 percent since Dec. 10, 2007,
the day before Pandit was appointed CEO. Citigroup shares gained
11 cents, or 0.3 percent, to $41.35 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading at 10:43 a.m. They are down 13 percent this
year, while the  KBW Bank Index (BKX) , which tracks the performance of
24 U.S. banks, has fallen 3.4 percent.  “Vikram has done an outstanding job since coming on board
as the financial crisis began,” Chairman  Richard Parsons , 63,
said in a statement. “The long-term, multiyear, performance-
based structure of this award is designed to retain Vikram as
our CEO and reward him for future performance.”  The retention program awards Pandit, 54, a percentage of
cumulative pretax income at the bank’s Citicorp unit once that
figure reaches $12 billion for 2011 and 2012, according to the
filing. Pretax income amounted to $5 billion in the first
quarter of this year, under the bank’s definition.  According to an April estimate by  Moshe Orenbuch , an
analyst with Credit Suisse AG, pretax income could reach $46.9
billion for the full two years. By this estimate, Pandit would
receive about $26 million from the profit-sharing plan.  Shannon Bell , a spokeswoman for the bank, declined to comment on the
calculations.  Deferred Stock  The package also includes $10 million in deferred stock,
paid out in three annual installments, the last of which vests
at the end of 2015, according to the filing. The award depends
on Pandit meeting “regulatory considerations” as well as
creating a culture of “responsible finance” and developing
talent for succession of senior managers, the bank said.  The stock options have a value of $6 million to $6.5
million, according to a person familiar with the bank’s
estimates, who declined to be identified because the figures
aren’t public.  Pandit joined Citigroup when the bank agreed to buy his
hedge fund, Old Lane Partners LP, in April 2007. He replaced
Charles “Chuck” Prince as CEO eight months later. Pandit
received $165 million from the deal, about $80 million of which
is locked in a Citi Private Bank account until July. Pandit will
get the cash assuming the bank doesn’t fire him “for cause”
before then, according to a regulatory filing.  U.S. Bailout  The board gave Pandit a $3.2 million package in 2007,
including $2.9 million of stock, according to Bloomberg data. He
received a $38 million package in 2008, when Citigroup posted a
$27.7 billion loss and took a $45 billion bailout from U.S.
taxpayers. That award also included stock and options.  “For the average person, that’s a substantial amount of
money,” de Silva said. “But the average person cannot run an
enterprise that’s as global as Citigroup and have a near $2
trillion balance sheet with multiple business lines that by
themselves could be five or six companies.”  Lloyd Blankfein , CEO and chairman of  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , has been awarded $97.3 million since 2007, including stock
and stock options, bonuses and salary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 