-- 
Parmalat Investors Want 8% More From Lactalis to Support Bid

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-05-19T11:02:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/parmalat-investors-want-8-more-from-lactalis-to-support-bid.html
Parmalat SpA (PLT)  investors are holding
out for at least 8 percent more from Groupe Lactalis of  France 
in a takeover bid that would value Italy’s biggest dairy at 3.65
billion euros ($5.19 billion).  Parmalat shares have closed above the 2.60 euro-a-share
offer every day since May 5 on expectations that Lactalis will
have to raise its bid in order to succeed. The Laval, France-
based company, the country’s biggest cheese-maker, has made the
offer conditional on 55 percent of investors accepting it.  “Why would anyone tender to a 2.60 offer when they’ve been
able to sell it above that level for several weeks now?” said
Ben Rolfe, head of special situations at Tavira Securities Ltd.
in  Monaco . “Unless they waive the acceptance condition or
increase the bid, it is doomed.”  Parmalat’s board said Tuesday that the Lactalis bid is too
low and that it won’t recommend it to shareholders. Lactalis in
March paid a group of activist investors 2.80 euros-a-share for
a 15 percent stake in Collecchio, Italy-based Parmalat, raising
its holding to 29 percent. On April 26, the Laval, France-based
company announced a bid for the rest. The offer opens on May 23
and closes on July 8.  “We are in favor of the deal, but believe that Lactalis
needs to offer at least 2.80,” said Todd Bassion, who helps
manage more than $1 billion in assets at  Delaware  Investments in
 Boston . Parmalat is among Delaware’s 10 biggest holdings.  Dairy Valuations  Lactalis’s bid values Parmalat at 16 times net income,
which would be the lowest in the industry for an acquisition
exceeding $500 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The takeover of Parmalat, which has the most cash of any dairy
company in the world, would also be the second-cheapest to
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.  Lactalis said on May 13 that its offer is almost 10 percent
higher than the 2.37-euro average price target of analysts from
before the bid. The average price estimate is now 2.50 euros. A
spokeswoman declined to comment beyond that statement.  The offer “does not include a control premium,” said
David Abraham, director in event driven strategies at BTIG Ltd.
in  London .  At 2.60 euros-a-share, Parmalat’s enterprise value, or the
sum of its stock and debt minus cash, would equal 8.8 times its
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
over the last 12 months, Abraham said. Comparable transactions
in the dairy products industry have been conducted at a multiple
of about 12 times, he said.  Cash Pile  Parmalat slipped 0.3 percent to 2.61 euros in Milan trading
today, giving the company a market value of 4.5 billion euros.  “I am better off keeping my position in Parmalat,” said
Philippe Denef at Degroof Fund Management in Brussels. “Looking
at the relative value of Parmalat compared to other food
companies, I have no incentive to sell at 2.6 euros.”  Combining Lactalis and Parmalat would create the world’s
largest dairy company with annual revenue of about 14 billion
euros. Chief Executive Officer Enrico Bondi had built up 1.4
billion euros in cash by winning settlements from the company’s
former creditors following Parmalat’s 2003 bankruptcy,  Italy ’s
biggest.  Credit Agricole SA, HSBC Holdings Plc, Natixis and Societe
Generale SA will provide funding for the bid, Lactalis said when
it made the offer last month.  “Lactalis needs to offer at least 2.8 euros, for equal
treatment between the funds and minority investors, said Daniele Demartis, who helps manage 150 million euros at Rome-based Agora
Investments SGR SpA, including Parmalat shares. “It’s an
unspoken, but fair rule. I will wait patiently for them to
relaunch their offer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  