-- 
Pennsylvania Would Fund Colleges by Sniffing Out Medicaid Fraud

-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 
2011-05-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/pennsylvania-would-fund-colleges-by-sniffing-out-medicaid-fraud.html
Pennsylvania  legislators are pinning
their effort to avert the steepest higher-education cuts in U.S.
history on savings from reducing Medicaid waste and fraud. If
the state can’t find enough, more than 160,000 needy residents
may go without health care.  Republican Governor Tom Corbett had proposed halving
funding for state universities and cutting primary education.
Instead, the majority Republicans in the  House of
Representatives  plan to divert $470 million from the Public
Welfare Department, saying that rooting out cheating and errors
will create savings.  U.S. states face 2012 shortfalls totaling $112 billion, the
Washington-based  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities  said in
March. To cope with Pennsylvania’s forecast $4.2 billion
deficit, lawmakers are assuming savings their counterparts in
other states aren’t and are putting higher education ahead of
social services and health care.  “The House proposal is a step backward,” Sharon Ward,
director of the Harrisburg-based  Pennsylvania Budget and Policy
Center , said in a telephone call. “Cutting hospitals to restore
colleges and universities -- we think it’s a lose-lose
approach.”  Republican Representative William Adolph of Springfield,
head of the Appropriations Committee, said restoring aid to
universities is important, because otherwise tuition would rise
for about 270,000 students.  Economic Drivers  Lawmakers also say the universities drive jobs and  tax
revenue .  Pennsylvania State University , for one, wrote paychecks
for 44,000 and contributed $17 billion in direct and indirect
economic activity in the state in 2008, according to a study by
Pittsburgh-based Tripp Umbach & Associates, which the university
hired.  No other state is considering budget proposals counting on
Medicaid savings from waste and fraud in the next fiscal year,
according to Jon Shure, director of state fiscal strategies for
the budget and policy center, and  data  compiled by the  National
Conference of State Legislatures . California in fiscal 2011
incorporated a $26 million savings from antifraud efforts in its
Medicaid program, according to the data.  “That is very unlikely to materialize in Pennsylvania or
anywhere else,” said Shure, whose group focuses on issues that
affect lower-income Americans. “What is more likely that there
would be cuts to services people need. It’s hard to imagine
waste at such a level that you would find savings.”  The Senate, also controlled by Republicans, will take up
the budget bill after House passage. The Legislature must pass
the spending plan before the fiscal years begins July 1. A
Corbett spokesman, Kevin Harley, didn’t return a telephone call
seeking comment.  Historic Cuts  If the governor’s plan were enacted, it would be the
steepest one-time drop in college funding in U.S. history,
according to Daniel Hurley, director of state relations and
policy analysis at the Washington-based  American Association of
State Colleges & Universities .  The $27.3 billion House spending plan would mean only a 15
percent drop for 14 universities owned by the state. It would
result in a 25 percent cut to four universities outside the
system that receive aid.  To minimize university cuts, legislators plan to decrease
funding for Medicaid, the joint federal-state health program for
the poor, by 4 percent. They settled on the amount after the
federal Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services audit of
payments in the state last year found that 4 percent of
applications had errors, Adolph said.  ‘Stopping the Bleeding’  “I am quite comfortable we are not slashing and burning
the welfare budget,” he said. “We are stopping the bleeding of
the fastest-growing line item in the state budget.”  Groups foresee serious consequences. Hospitals would get
$70 million less in state and federal payments for treating
indigent patients, said Roger Baumgarten, spokesman for the
 Hospital & Healthsystem Association of Pennsylvania , a
Harrisburg-based organization. In addition, as many as 164,300
residents could lose access to health care through Medicaid,
Ward said. About 2.2 million Pennsylvanians receive assistance.  An initiative that gives child-care subsidies to low-income
parents of 130,000 children and has a waiting list of 12,000 may
be jeopardized, said Joan Benso, chief executive officer at
 Pennsylvania Partnerships for Children , an activist group in
Harrisburg.  “Our economy is slowly recovering, but kids and families
still need help,” she said in a telephone interview. “We are
making cuts to programs that will have a negative impact on
children.”  On the Street  The bill would eliminate $27 million from an area that
supports the living needs of people with intellectual
disabilities, a potentially “catastrophic” event that would
force  a “large number of group homes” to go out of business,
said Ilene Shane, chief executive officer of advocacy group
 Disability Rights Network of Pennsylvania . About 15,500 people
live in 6,000 group homes across the commonwealth.  Acting welfare Secretary Gary Alexander said during his
Senate confirmation hearing May 11 that he was sure there would
be savings by finding fraud. He didn’t know how much.  “I don’t know if it’s $400 million at this point,” he
said. “It could be; it could be more; it could be a lot less.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 