-- 
Pfizer, Ericsson, Brando, SocGen: Intellectual Property

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-05-18T11:39:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/pfizer-ericsson-sony-harley-davidson-privacy-intellectual-property.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest
drugmaker, told a federal jury that it lost billions of dollars
in sales from unauthorized copies of the epilepsy drug Neurontin
and it wants the money back.  Pfizer claims copies of the pill made by  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  and its Ivax unit, along with
Actavis Group hf’s Purepac unit, infringe a patent that expires
in 2017. During opening statements yesterday in federal court in
Newark,  New Jersey , the generic-drug makers rejected the claim
and told jurors that the brand drug only became a blockbuster
for Pfizer because of the company’s illegal marketing activity.  Low-cost versions of Neurontin have been on the market
since 2004. While a district court judge initially ruled that
the low-cost versions didn’t infringe Pfizer’s patent, a federal
appeals court in 2007 overturned the ruling.  Neurontin, whose active ingredient is gabapentin, was a
$2.5 billion-a-year drug for New York-based Pfizer before the
copies entered the market. The patent at issue covers a process
to make gabapentin with fewer contaminants.  Ivax, then a standalone company, began selling a variation
of the drug in August 2004. Purepac started selling its generic
version in October 2004 with Teva after the companies agreed to
share any potential legal loss. Pfizer’s sales in 2005 plunged
to $150 million a year, according to its lawyer, Jack
Blumenfeld.  “Ninety-four percent of the Neurontin market disappeared
within that year,” he said. “It had an impact of more than $2
billion that first year, and more as time went on.”  Petah Tikva, Israel-based Teva, the world’s biggest
generic-drug company, and Iceland-based Actavis, which has U.S.
offices in Morristown and Elizabeth, New Jersey, contend the
patent is invalid because it’s an obvious variation of already
expired patents, including one that ended in 2000.  “Pfizer didn’t want to risk good, honest competition in
the marketplace,” said Elizabeth Holland, a lawyer for Ivax.
“That’s what this case is really about.”  The generic drugmakers contend that, even if they lose on
the patent question, Pfizer shouldn’t be able to recoup money it
obtained because of the unlawful promotion of Neurontin.  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Sandoz generic-drug unit also was part of the
case and settled last month. Terms weren’t disclosed.  The case is Warner-Lambert Co. v. Purepac Pharmaceutical,
00-cv-2931, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey
(Newark).  For more, click here.  Ericsson Said to Weigh Entering Contest for Nortel Patents  Ericsson AB is considering an offer for some patents being
auctioned off by Nortel Networks Corp., increasing the number of
potential bidders to at least four, said two people familiar
with the plans.  Ericsson hasn’t made a final decision on whether to make an
offer or which patents it is most interested in, said the
people, who wouldn’t be identified because the company’s plans
aren’t yet public. The Stockholm-based company is considering
teaming with another company on the bid, and has approached
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC) , one of the people
said.  Nortel, a Canadian phone-equipment maker that filed for
bankruptcy in January 2009, has already attracted several
potential bidders for its portfolio of wireless and technology
patents. Google, whose Android software runs phones made by
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co.,
offered $900 million last month in what Nortel said was a
starting point for an auction.  RPX Corp., a San Francisco-based patent-buying firm, is
considering a bid, an attorney for the company said this month.
 Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  is also weighing an offer, two people
familiar with the company’s plans said last month.  The growing interest may boost the price for Nortel’s
patents to more than $1 billion, said Rich Ehrlickman, president
of Boca Raton, Florida-based patent broker IPOfferings.  “Ericsson has a large patent portfolio and is always
looking to expand it,” said Patricia MacLean, a spokeswoman for
Ericsson in  Canada . She declined to comment further.  Aaron Zamost, a Google spokesman, and Chuck Malloy, a
spokesman for Intel, said they don’t comment on rumors. Leonardo
Ortiz Villacorta, director of corporate communications for
Microsoft, said the company has royalty-free rights to all
Nortel patents because of a 2006 cross-licensing agreement, and
wouldn’t elaborate further.  The Nortel patents cover telecommunications technology,
used in wireless handsets and networks, as well as Internet
search, semiconductors and social networking. Specific patents
on new touchscreen and conferencing technologies help to explain
what has attracted such a range of companies, said Akshay
Sharma, an analyst with Gartner Inc.  For more, click here.  For more patent news, click here.  Misappropriation  Brando Enterprises Sues Harley-Davidson Over Brando Boots  Brando Enterprises LP said it sued  Harley-Davidson Inc. (HOG)  in
 California  state court claiming that the motorcycle company is
selling a boot called “The Brando” without a license.  The suit, which alleges misappropriation of the right of
publicity, alleges that the boot “resembles the distinctive
leather motorcycle boot worn by Marlon Brando in one of his most
famous motion pictures, ‘The Wild One.’”  Brando Enterprises, an operating entity created by the
Marlon Brando Living Trust, is represented by Jeffrey Abrams of
Wolf, Rivkin, Shapiro, Schulman & Rabkin of  Los Angeles .  Harley-Davidson officials didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment.  The suit which seeks both injunctive relief and damages.  The case is Brando Enterprises LP v. Harley-Davidson Motor
Company, Inc., SC 112654, California Superior Court (Santa
Monica).  Lawsuit Involving Use of Humphrey Bogart’s Name Settled  Bogart LLC, the owner of all  intellectual-property  rights
of the late film actor Humphrey Bogart, settled its federal
lawsuit against retailers Plummers, Scandinavian Designs and
Dania over their sale of a furniture line called “Bogart.”
Bogart LLC filed the action in federal court in May 2010,
alleging violation of California’s post-mortem right of
publicity statute, as well as trademark infringement. The terms
of the settlement agreement are confidential, Bogart said in a
statement.  Privacy  Sony Chairman Stringer Calls Hacker Attack ‘Hiccup’ in Road  The hacker attack that crippled  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s PlayStation
Network and Qriocity entertainment services was “a hiccup” in
the company’s online strategy, Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Howard Stringer said.  “Nobody’s system is 100 percent secure,” Stringer said
yesterday in a phone interview, his first public comments on the
attack.  “This is a hiccup in the road to a network future.”  Stringer, 69, spoke in an interview almost a month after
Sony, maker of the PlayStation console, shut down its online
movie, music and games services. Hackers obtained data on more
than 100 million users, the company acknowledged.  The Tokyo-based company is working to determine whether
other computer systems were invaded, Stringer said. Authorities
in the U.S.,  Europe  and elsewhere haven’t provided Sony with
details of criminal investigations into the attacks, he said.  Stringer apologized on May 5 in a blog and offered U.S.
users of Sony’s PlayStation Network and Qriocity services a year
of free identity-theft protection, backed by a  $1 million 
insurance policy per user covering legal and ID-restoration
costs, as well as lost wages that occur after data is stolen.  The company yesterday also offered users a package of free
games and movie services as compensation.  For more, click here.  Congress  Leahy Seeks Update of Digital Privacy Law to Add Smartphones  U.S. Senator Patrick Leahy unveiled legislation yesterday
that would require the government to obtain a search warrant to
access location information gathered by companies from their
customers’ wireless devices.  The bill seeks to update the 25-year-old Electronic
Communications Privacy Act, according to Leahy, a Vermont
Democrat who chairs the Senate Judiciary Committee and wrote the
original law.  “Updating this law to reflect the realities of our time is
essential to ensuring that our federal privacy laws keep pace
with new technologies and the new threats to our security,”
Leahy said in a  statement .  Under the bill, the U.S. government must obtain a search
warrant or a court order in compliance with the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Act to obtain or use location
information from an individual’s smartphone or other mobile
device.  The Leahy legislation is “an effort to address government
access to locational data, which 25 years ago was not an issue”
and now is subject to conflicting court rulings,  Marc Rotenberg ,
executive director of the Washington-based Electronic Privacy
Information Center, said in an interview.  Hatch Urges Intellectual Property Focus in Trade Accord  Senators Orrin Hatch, a Utah Republican, and Maria
Cantwell, a Washington Democrat, urged President Barack Obama to
back intellectual-property protections in talks on a Pacific Rim
free-trade agreement.  “We urge you to continue to seek the highest IP standards
as your administration finalizes its proposals in this area,”
Hatch and Cantwell, joined by 26 colleagues, wrote in a letter
to Obama yesterday. They said Obama should reject efforts to
weaken intellectual property protections.  New Suits  Societe Generale (GLE)  Sues Ex-Trader Alleging Theft of Secrets  Societe Generale SA,  France ’s second-largest bank by market
value, accused a former foreign-exchange trader of
misappropriating trade secrets involving clients for his future
employer,  Credit Agricole SA. (ACA)   Societe Generale, in a lawsuit filed yesterday in federal
court in  Manhattan , seeks an order to force the ex-trader, Karma
Tenzing, to return the data. The bank said Tenzing was a junior
salesperson on its foreign exchange desk from January 2010 until
April 28, when he left for Credit Agricole, France’s third-
largest bank by market value.  The documents Tenzing allegedly took from the bank’s  New
York  office and its computer server were found on the hard drive
of a computer in his New York office, according to the suit.  “Knowing full well that his lack of ‘a book’ and minimal
contacts made him less desirable as a candidate, he set upon a
scheme to make himself more marketable to a competitor,”
Societe Generale said in the complaint.  Anne-Sophie Gentil, a spokeswoman for Credit Agricole,
couldn’t be reached for comment after business hours in Paris.  No one answered a telephone listed in Tenzing’s name in
Queens, New York.  Societe Generale asked the court for an injunction, or
order, barring Tenzing from disclosing the trade secrets to
others and for unspecified monetary damages.  Laura Schalk , a spokeswoman for Societe Generale, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail seeking comment left at her
office after business hours.  The case is Societe Generale v. Tenzing, 11-CV-3366, filed
in the Southern District of New York (Manhattan). 