-- 
Poland’s Treasury Gets $113.7 Million in IPO of BGZ, 22% of Planned Amount

-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h   a n d   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 
2011-05-18T09:56:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/poland-s-treasury-gets-113-7-million-in-ipo-of-bgz-22-of-planned-amount.html
Poland  sold 312 million zloty ($113.7
million) of shares in an initial public offering of  Bank
Gospodarki Zywnosciowej SA , or 22 percent of the maximum it
could have raised.  The Treasury Ministry sold 5.2 million shares in the bank
known as BGZ for 60 zloty a share, compared with a range of 66
zloty to 90 zloty a share, according to an  appendix  to the
prospectus published on the website of PKO Bank Polski’s
brokerage. The government planned to sell 16 million shares, or
its entire 37 percent stake in the agricultural lender.  Poland might have raised as much as 1.44 billion zloty from
the sale, based on the maximum price and stake for sale.
Rabobank Groep, the world’s biggest agricultural lender, owns 59
percent of BGZ.  “The bank’s earnings are rather low and its strategy to
focus on small and medium-sized companies could raise doubts
among investors,” said Pawel Kozub, an analyst at UniCredit
CAIB Poland. The government’s valuation “was too high compared
with other local banks,” he said.  The sale is part of a plan to raise 15 billion zloty from
state asset sales in 2011 to help finance the  budget deficit  and
limit debt. The government will also offer stakes in PKO Bank
Polski SA and coal producer Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA this
year. It has raised almost 33 billion zloty from asset sales
since taking office in late 2007.  Strategy Execution  “We decided that the bank will have a higher valuation
after it executes the strategy it’s currently implementing, and
that’s why we decided to sell just a small stake,” Treasury
Minister Aleksander Grad said at a news conference today in
Katowice, southern Poland. Now that the shares are traded the
government can sell the rest of its stake at a better time, he
said.  The government also extended book-building by one day to
May 20, the appendix to the prospectus said.  Poland, whose sole stock exchange is central  Europe ’s
fastest-growing equity market, had 71 IPOs so far this year,
attracting more companies to list shares than all of western
Europe and ranking second after  China  among emerging markets,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Citigroup Inc. and UBS AG are the global coordinators for
BGZ’s IPO. PKO and Espirito Santo Investment Bank are acting as
bookrunners.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net ;
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw at 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  