-- 
Pound Depreciates as BOE Warns of Risks to Confidence, Unemployment Rises

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-05-18T15:39:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/pound-rises-versus-dollar-before-bank-of-england-publishes-meeting-minutes.html
The pound fell as minutes from the
 Bank of England ’s May 5 meeting showed the majority of policy
makers warned against raising borrowing costs and a report
revealed unemployment claims rose.  Sterling weakened against all 16 of its major peers, losing
most against South Africa’s rand and Singapore’s dollar. At the
central bank’s May meeting, the Monetary Policy Committee voted
6-3 to hold  interest rates  at 0.5 percent as members said an
increase “could adversely affect consumer confidence.” U.K.
unemployment claims rose in April at the fastest pace since
January 2010, according to a separate report.  “If the data continues to be pretty soggy we could see
more MPC members moving back to vote for unchanged rates,”
which may cause the pound to weaken, said  Gavin Friend , a
markets strategist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in London.  The pound depreciated 0.8 percent against the euro to 88.26
pence as of 4:22 p.m. in London after reaching 88.36 pence, the
weakest since May 6. It was 0.7 percent lower at $1.6144 and
dropped 0.6 percent to 131.40 yen.  Jobless benefit claims increased by 12,400 from March to
1.47 million, the Office for National Statistics said today in
London. The median forecast of 24 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for no change. Unemployment measured by International
Labour Organization methods fell by 36,000 to 2.46 million
people in the quarter through March.  6-3 Vote  Of the central bank’s nine policy makers,  Andrew Sentance 
maintained his call for a half percentage-point increase in the
key rate from a record low of 0.5 percent. Chief Economist
 Spencer Dale  and  Martin Weale  continued a push for a quarter-
point increase. They said the case for a move now was “finely
balanced,” according to the minutes. Governor  Mervyn King  and
the other five members of the Monetary Policy Committee voted
for no change.  Adam Posen  kept up a call for more bond
purchases.  “There’s quite an important change in the tone of the
minutes,” said  Chris Walker , a currency strategist at UBS AG in
London. “Dale and Weale both said that their decision was
finely balanced, implying they are becoming less hawkish. It’s
bearish for the pound because the voting dynamics make a hike
less likely.”  Money markets now price in a 25 basis-point increase in the
key rate in January, according to sterling overnight interbank
average forwards, Tullett Prebon Plc data show. They have pushed
back bets for a rate rise as soon as this month.  U.K. consumer prices rose 4.5 percent last month from a
year earlier, according to a report yesterday, surpassing the
economists’ median forecast of 4.1 percent.  King said in the letter to Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne yesterday that the surge in inflation is being
driven by higher sales tax and increases in energy prices.  Two-year gilts fell, pushing the yield up three basis
points to 1.01 percent, while 10-year yields were one basis
point higher at 3.38 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  