-- 
Putin Likely to Return as Russian President, Vostok Nafta Says

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-05-18T13:43:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/putin-likely-to-return-as-russian-president-vostok-nafta-says.html
Vladimir Putin  is likely to return as
Russia’s president next year and appoint Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin as his prime minister, according to commodity investment
fund manager Vostok Nafta.  “The Moscow rumor mill is currently putting money on Putin
to be elected back as president,” it said today in an
investment report. President  Dmitry Medvedev  may be named
chairman of the Constitutional Court, added Vostok, which
manages $550 million.  Putin, a 58-year-old former KGB officer, handed over the
presidency to his 45-year-old protégé, Medvedev, in 2008,
because of a constitutional ban on serving more than two
consecutive terms. Putin, now prime minister, hasn’t ruled out
running for president in 2012.  Medvedev, a lawyer from Putin’s hometown of  St. Petersburg ,
said April 12 he’s nearing a decision on whether to seek re-
election. A day later Putin said it was too early to decide
which of them will run.  Julian Rimmer, a trader of Russian shares at CF Global
Trading in  London , said Russian stocks would rally 10 percent
“in short order” if Medvedev continues as president. If Putin
returns, equities would be little-changed as this scenario is
already priced into the market, Rimmer said by phone.  “Medvedev is perceived as better for Russia due to his
liberal reforms while Putin is seen as representing the old
guard,” Rimmer said. “Russia is still trading at a massive
discount due to its corporate governance problems and state
interference in economic policy.”  Uncertainty About 2012  Russian stocks are the cheapest of the four co-called BRIC
nations, with a price-to-earnings ratio of 8.3 compared with 9.7
for  Brazil  and 16 for China and  India , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Uncertainty about the 2012 election is holding back
investment flows into Russia, said  Chris Weafer , chief
strategist at UralSib Securities in Moscow.  “It has created something of a counter-balance to the
improving fiscal and budget situation,” he said today in e-
mailed comments.  The week to May 11 saw the first redemptions from Russia-
focused funds since mid-March, according to VTB Capital, the
investment banking arm of Russia’s second-biggest bank by
assets.  Weafer said investors see one of two scenarios: either the
status quo is maintained or Putin returns.  “In that latter scenario we could easily see Kudrin as
prime minister and Medvedev go to the Constitutional Court,” he
said. “The question mark will hang over  market sentiment  until
the issue is resolved one way or the other.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net 
Jason Corcoran at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net 
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  