-- 
Queen Elizabeth: U.K. and Ireland Had “Troubled Past”

-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 
2011-05-18T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/queen-elizabeth-acknowledges-troubled-past-in-first-irish-speech.html
Queen Elizabeth II  said the U.K. and
Ireland had a “troubled past” and expressed sympathy to all
those hurt in the Northern Ireland conflict, on the first visit
by a British monarch to the  Republic of Ireland  since the
country gained independence from the U.K.  ”We could not forget those who have died and been injured
and their families,” the queen told an audience including Irish
Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  at a reception in Dublin Castle, once
the center of British rule in Ireland. Opening her speech in
Gaelic, Ireland’s national language, she also said while the
“record over the centuries” was not “entirely benign,”
Britain and Ireland are now “firm friends and equal partners.”  The visit, which began two days ago, has been hailed by
Kenny and his U.K. counterpart  David Cameron  as a new chapter in
Anglo-Irish relations. Ireland won independence from Britain in
1921 in a deal that split the island. The trip would have been
“impossible” a few years ago, Cameron wrote in the  Irish Times ,
adding that the  peace process  in Northern Ireland had made it
possible.  The British monarch, who wore a brooch in the shape of a
harp, one of Ireland’s national symbols, said the nations must
be able “to bow to the past but not bound by it.”  Britain split Ireland in two in 1921, creating Northern
Ireland, which is still ruled by the U.K. About 3,500 people
were killed in the province in a three-decade conflict that
largely ended with the Good Friday peace accord in 1998.  ‘Regrettable’  It is a “sad and regrettable reality” that the countries
saw “more than their fair share of heartache,” the queen said
in her speech, after an introduction from Irish President Mary McAleese, who is from  Northern Ireland . She said that
everyone wishes some things had been done “differently.”  She added that the “challenges of the past have now been
replaced by new economic challenges.” The U.K. gave a bilateral
loan to Ireland last year as part of its international bailout.  Earlier she visited the Croke Park stadium in Dublin, where
British troops killed 14 civilians in 1920. That followed a trip
on May 17 to the Garden of Remembrance in the Irish capital,
which honors the rebels who fought against Britain for
independence.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net ;
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 