-- 
Rate Swaps Fall to Six-Month Low as Quake Sparks Recession: Japan Credit

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-05-18T01:28:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/rate-swaps-fall-to-six-month-low-as-quake-sparks-recession-japan-credit.html
Three-year interest rate swaps in
 Japan  slumped to a six-month low as the nation’s record
earthquake and nuclear crisis depressed the economy more than
analysts anticipated.  The fixed rate traders pay to receive floating payments for
three years declined to 0.396 percent last week, the lowest
level since Nov. 4, and traded at 0.407 percent today. Four-year
and five-year equivalents are also at about six-month lows.  A report tomorrow may show gross domestic product shrank in
the first quarter at the fastest pace since the financial
crisis, pushing the economy into a recession and bolstering the
case for the Bank of Japan to keep monetary stimulus in place,
according to the median estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Surveys show the central bank’s governors will
probably keep  interest rates  near zero and maintain credit
programs when they meet this week, even as policy makers in  Asia 
tighten and the  European Central Bank  unwinds stimulus.  “It’s becoming increasingly clear that the Bank of Japan
is strengthening its commitment to an accommodative stance,”
said  Ayako Sera , a strategist in Tokyo at Sumitomo Trust &
Banking Co., which manages about $331 billion in investments.
“Out of all the central banks right now, it’s easiest to
predict the Bank of Japan’s moves. Investors can comfortably
assume that short-term rates won’t rise.”  Relative Value  Investors try to lock in rates when they expect borrowing
costs to rise, causing swaps to increase. Three-year interest
rate swaps in  Germany  have increased to 2.52 percent from 1.93
percent in the past six months after accelerating inflation
prompted the ECB to increase its policy rate in April for the
first time in almost three years. The U.S. equivalent has risen
to 1.17 percent from 1 percent in the same period as bets on
further easing by the Federal Reserve fade.  The world’s third-largest economy probably contracted for a
second quarter, pushing it into a technical recession in the
three months ended March 31. GDP shrank at an annual 1.9 percent
pace, according to the median estimate of 23 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News before the report tomorrow.  A decline of that magnitude would be bigger than the 0.2
percent pace forecast by analysts polled by a government-
affiliated think tank between March 29 and April 5. Industrial
production tumbled a record 15.3 percent in March, retail sales
slumped 8.3 percent and exports slid 2.3 percent -- all drops
that were bigger than economists expected.  Plant Closure  Data this month indicate the economy hasn’t bounced back.
 Consumer confidence  slumped at a record pace in April, the
Cabinet Office said this week, after the quake left more than
24,000 dead or missing. Exports for the first 20 days of April
slid 12.7 percent from a year earlier, the  Finance Ministry  said
on May 12.  Service demand fell 6 percent in March from a month
earlier, marking the largest decline since April 1989, the Trade
Ministry said today in Tokyo. The slump was led by spending
declines on entertainment and restaurants.  The closure of a nuclear plant that supplies power to the
region in which Toyota Motor Corp. is based may force companies
to restrain output this quarter, delaying the rebound. Chubu
Electric Power Co. shut its Hamaoka nuclear plant after Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  this month ordered the utility to bolster its
tsunami defenses in wake of the nuclear accident in Fukushima at
a  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. complex.  “This is one more thing that’s going to slow the economic
recovery,” said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , a senior economist at
Itochu Corp. in Tokyo. “You would have thought that we would
have seen more progress by this point. All this news that adds
to uncertainty in the outlook is prompting investors to
recalculate their interest rate expectations.”  Borrowing Yen  Investors may take advantage of the diverging prospects at
central banks by borrowing in yen at Japan’s low rates, and then
exchanging that to foreign currencies to buy higher-yielding
assets, according to Makoto Noji, a Tokyo-based senior debt and
foreign-exchange strategist at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.  Japan’s currency crossed below 80 per dollar on May 5 for
the first time since Group of Seven nations intervened in
markets on March 18 to weaken the yen, and traded at 81.37 per
dollar as of 10:28 a.m. in Tokyo today.  “The  Bank of Japan  has no choice but to keep its monetary
stimulus in place,” Noji said. “It’s hard to be upbeat about
the economic outlook at this point.”  There are also signs the economy is on the mend and will
rebound as reconstruction work kicks in and companies start to
repair factories. Machinery orders, an indicator of future
 capital spending , unexpectedly increased in March and companies
said orders will rise this quarter. Economic and Fiscal Policy
Minister  Kaoru Yosano  also said the disaster effect on output
was “smaller than first thought.”  Nissan Forecast  Nissan Motor Co. now forecasts that its global production
will return to normal levels by October. Fewer than 20 suppliers
are still in a critical situation compared with 40 in March,
Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said this month.  The BOJ will probably keep the key rate in range of zero to
0.1 percent and maintain its 10 trillion-yen asset and 30
trillion yen credit programs, according to all 13 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The two-day meeting ends May 20.
Deputy Governor Kiyohiko Nishimura proposed last month expanding
the bank’s asset-buying fund to shore up growth, a proposal
rejected by the board.  Japan’s benchmark 10-year yield slid to 1.105 percent this
week, the lowest level since Nov. 24, amid signs of a prolonged
economic slowdown.  “It’s still unclear whether Japan will ever be able to
return its pre-quake economic capacity,” said Akio Kato, team
leader for Japanese debt in Tokyo at Kokusai Asset Management
Co., which runs the $32.5 billion Global Sovereign Open fund.
“Short-term interest rates have already been crushed, but
factoring in those growth expectations, long-term interest rates
may edge down as well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  