-- 
Republican Senators Seek Answers on IRS Gift Tax Enforcement

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-05-18T22:03:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/republican-senators-seek-answers-on-irs-gift-tax-enforcement.html
Republicans on the U.S. Senate
Finance Committee are asking the  Internal Revenue Service  to
provide more details about an investigation into contributions
to political advocacy groups.  The investigation, which the IRS confirmed May 13, focuses
on contributions from five taxpayers to determine whether they
should pay gift taxes on donations to the groups, which are
organized as 501(c)(4) organizations. The IRS didn’t identify
the donors or the groups it is investigating.  The lawmakers, led by Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , sent the
letter today to IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman requesting more
information on the investigation. Hatch is the top Republican on
the finance panel.  “Retroactive enforcement of the gift tax in this highly
politicized environment raises legitimate concerns and demands
further explanation,” the senators said in the letter.  Republican Senators  Jon Kyl  of  Arizona , Pat Roberts of
 Kansas ,  John Cornyn  of  Texas , John Thune of  South Dakota  and
Richard Burr of  North Carolina  also signed the letter.  Gift Tax Questions  The 501(c)(4) groups are known as social welfare
organizations and have been used in recent elections by
political advocacy groups, especially those supporting
Republican causes. The IRS hasn’t levied the gift tax, currently
with a top rate of 35 percent, on the groups or their donors in
recent years.  Taxing the organizations, the lawmakers wrote, “runs an
unacceptable risk of chilling political speech.”  IRS spokeswoman Michelle Eldridge said today that the
agency is “reviewing” the letter.  “Since the questions are being reviewed, we don’t have an
immediate response to the letter at this time,” she said in a
statement.  No Outside Influence  Eldridge said in a May 13 statement that the decision to
investigate the contributions was made “by career civil
servants without any influence from anyone outside the IRS.”  “The examinations were started by employees of the Estate
and Gift Tax Unit at the IRS as part of their increased efforts
in the area of non-filing of gift and estate tax returns,” she
said in the May 13 statement.  The Republican senators responded in the letter that they
found the IRS explanation insufficient.  “We would expect that decisions regarding particular
enforcement actions would be made by career civil servants,”
they wrote. “The more pressing question, not answered to date,
is whether political appointees inside or outside the IRS were
involved in any way in the decision to prioritize this category
of cases.”  Seeking Names  The lawmakers are seeking the names of IRS officials who
helped decide whether to pursue the investigation along with any
correspondence related to that decision. They are also seeking
details as to whether the IRS conducted an analysis of potential
First Amendment implications of the investigation.  Democrats have called on the IRS to investigate tax-exempt
groups, including 501(c)(4)s that focus their support on
political causes. Senate Finance Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat, wrote to Shulman in September seeking a review of such
groups.  “Political campaigns and powerful individuals should not
be able to use tax-exempt organizations as political pawns to
serve their own interests,” Baucus wrote in the Sept. 29
letter.  Campaign finance watchdog groups have cheered the IRS
investigation of 501(c)(4)s.  “It’s clear that the IRS is just doing its job, enforcing
the law,” said  Adam Smith , communications director for Public
Campaign, a Washington-based organization that focuses on
campaign finance issues.  To contact the reporter on this story: Steven Sloan in
Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  