-- 
Ringgit Advances as Growth, Inflation May Support Higher Rates

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-05-18T08:16:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/ringgit-advances-as-growth-inflation-may-support-higher-rates.html
Malaysia’s ringgit strengthened from
a two-month low as economists forecast gross domestic product
rose at a faster pace last quarter, supporting the central
bank’s bias for a tighter monetary policy.  Southeast Asia ’s third-largest economy expanded 4.9 percent
from a year earlier, compared with 4.8 percent in the preceding
three months amid a surge in commodity prices, according to the
median forecast of 21 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
 Bank Negara Malaysia , which will report the data after 6 p.m.
local time, has raised its overnight rate and banks’ reserve
ratio this year. Bonds were little changed.  “Domestic demand remains strong and there’s also the
benefit of higher prices from commodity exports,” said Choong Yin Pheng, manager for economic and fixed-income research at
Hong Leong Bank Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “The downside is the
recent weaker economic data and debt crisis” in U.S. and  Japan .  The ringgit advanced 0.7 percent to 3.0345 per dollar as of
4:03 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur  from 3.0565 on May 16, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Local financial markets were closed
yesterday for a holiday.  The ringgit touched the weakest level in two months earlier
this week as European Union leaders discussed extending  Greece ’s
debt repayment schedule, saying last year’s 110 billion-euro
($156 billion) rescue package failed to restore the country to
financial health.  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said
yesterday the economy is in a “very severe” state and reports
out of the U.S. showed industrial production stalled last month
while housing starts dropped.  Bonds Steady  Malaysia’s overseas shipments rose 7.5 percent to 171
billion ringgit ($56.3 billion) in the first three months of
this year after increasing 3.7 percent in the preceding quarter,
the trade ministry said on May 6. Average prices for crude and
palm oil, the nation’s main export items, were 20 percent and 41
percent higher than a year earlier, according to Bloomberg data.  Ten-year notes were little changed before a government
report that suggested inflation accelerated at the fastest in
two years. Consumer prices likely rose 3.1 percent in April from
a year earlier, the most in two years, a Bloomberg survey showed
before a statistics department report today. They increased 3
percent in March.  The yield on the 4.16 percent bond due July 2021 held at 4
percent, according to Bursa Malaysia. The rate fell to 3.99
percent on May 13, the least since March 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in  Singapore  at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 