-- 
Roche Drug Tandem Extends Life of Some Lung-Cancer Patients

-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 
2011-05-18T23:12:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/roche-drug-combination-extends-life-of-some-lung-cancer-patients.html
A  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  experimental drug
called MetMab, used with another medicine, extended the lives of
lung-cancer patients whose tumors had high levels of a protein
known to trigger the disease and help it spread, a study found.  MetMab, which targets a gene called Met, was given in
combination with Tarceva, another Roche medicine, to lung-cancer
patients whose disease didn’t improve after other therapy. About
half of lung tumors have high levels of Met.  The results show the benefit of tailoring cancer therapy to
the individual genetics of patients and their tumors. In this
case, adding MetMab to Tarceva tripled the life span of patients
whose tumors had high concentrations of the Met protein. In
patients with low Met levels, adding MetMab shortened their
lives. Roche has developed a test that measures Met levels and
plans to sell the test and drug together, said Sandra Horning,
Roche’s global head of clinical oncology.  “This is another example of personalized medicine in  lung
cancer ,” Horning said in a telephone interview.  The company, based in  Basel ,  Switzerland , plans to begin a
larger trial this year in patients whose tumors have high levels
of Met, Horning said.  The study tested the drug in 137 patients with non-small-
cell lung cancer, the most common form of the disease. Patients
with high levels of Met in their tumors who took both MetMab and
Tarceva lived for 12.6 months, compared with 3.8 months in those
who took Tarceva alone. Patients with low Met survived for a
median of 15.3 months on Tarceva alone and just 8.1 months if
they took both drugs, according to a summary of the study
released today.  Fluid, Swelling  Fluid buildup and swelling in the limbs was the most common
side effect among patients getting MetMab, experienced by 23
percent of patients getting both drugs, compared with 7.5
percent of the Tarceva-only patients.  Tarceva had sales of $1.3 billion in 2010, according to
Bloomberg data.  “It’s very exciting because you’re talking about a large
group of patients -- about 50 percent of them -- who may have a
chance to benefit from a therapy like this,” said the study
leader,  David R. Spigel , director of lung cancer research at
 Sarah Cannon Research Institute  in Nashville.  In 2010, about 223,000 were expected to be diagnosed with
lung cancer and 157,000 were expected to die, according to the
 American Cancer Society .  Today’s findings will be presented in greater detail at a
meeting of the American Society for Clinical Oncology starting
June 4 in  Chicago .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in  San Francisco  at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 