-- 
Ronaldo to Be Tempted by Move to Manchester City, Mirror Says: Roundup

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-05-18T09:56:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/ronaldo-to-be-tempted-by-move-to-manchester-city-mirror-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Ronaldo’s Return?  Real  Madrid ’s Cristiano Ronaldo may be tempted to move back
to the Premier League by a record bid from  Manchester City ,  the
Daily Mirror said .  Ronaldo, who left  Manchester United  in 2009 to join the
Spanish club for 80 million pounds ($130 million), the highest-
ever soccer transfer fee, has a $1 billion buyout clause in his
contract, the newspaper said. The Portuguese forward would
replace Carlos Tevez should the City captain decide to leave,
the Mirror said.  Arshavin Out?  Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger may be ready to let Russian
midfielder Andrey Arshavin leave after the season to get funds
to bring in new players,  the Guardian said .  The London club would want about 15 million pounds, what
they paid Zenit  St. Petersburg  for Arshavin in 2009, the
newspaper said. Arsenal may struggle to find a club willing to
pay his 85,000 pounds-a-week salary, the Guardian said. The
Russian leads the team in appearances this year, and has scored
10 times.  Liverpool Target  Liverpool has made an official approach to buy Lille’s Eden
Hazard, who is valued at 20 million pounds, the  Daily Mirror 
said. Arsenal, Chelsea and Real Madrid are also interested in
the winger, the paper reported.  Juve’s Plans  Juventus is targeting Manchester City’s Carlos Tevez and
Edin Dzeko as well as Arsenal’s  Theo Walcott ,  Metro  reported.  The Serie A club is planning an overhaul of its team this
summer following a disappointing season. Juventus may also try
to sign Atletico Madrid’s  Sergio Aguero , the newspaper said.  Villa Options  Aston Villa is tracking Everton manager David Moyes and
Fulham’s Mark Hughes because of worries that  Gerard Houllier  may
not be healthy enough to continue in the job,  the Mirror  said.  Houllier was hospitalized with a heart problem last month
and hasn’t coached since, with assistant manager Gary McAllister
in charge.  While the Frenchman has consulted with McAllister from
home, he hasn’t been to a match, and Villa won’t make a decision
until the end of the season, the Mirror said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  