-- 
Roswell Martians Might Have Been Nazi Kids From Mengele’s Lab

-- B y   A n d r e w   D u n n
-- 
2011-05-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/roswell-martians-may-have-been-deformed-nazi-kids-sent-by-stalin-review.html
Area 51, a U.S. military installation
in the Nevada desert about 75 miles north of  Las Vegas , has
attracted rumor and speculation for decades, fed largely by the
government’s refusal to discuss exactly what goes on there.  In “ Area 51: An Uncensored History of America’s Top Secret
Military Base ,” journalist Annie Jacobsen tries to get to the
bottom of these secrets. What she comes up with is an
informative history of Cold War spy planes sandwiched between an
outrageous -- and thinly sourced -- tale involving Josef
Mengele,  Josef Stalin  and flying saucers.  Area 51 was organized in the 1950s under the auspices of
the Atomic Energy Commission, the successor to the Manhattan
Project, which used the adjacent Nevada Test and Training Range
to try out atomic bombs. Because of this relationship with the
U.S. nuclear program, Jacobsen says, everything that happened at
Area 51 was, by default, a secret -- “born classified.”  “The essence of Area 51 was that everything that happened
there happened big,” Jacobsen says. “There was a deeply
patriotic sense that the free world depended on the work being
performed at Area 51.”  She draws on declassified documents and interviews with the
participants to paint a picture of “The Right Stuff” operating
sub rosa.  U-2 Shoot-Down  The Central Intelligence Agency, Lockheed and the U.S.
military developed the U-2 spy plane and its successor the A-12
“Oxcart” at Area 51, Jacobsen writes. She follows these
remarkable machines, and the pioneering men who built and flew
them, from drawing board to death-defying flight, including
Francis Gary Powers’s ill-fated 1960 U-2 mission over the  Soviet
Union .  Area 51 engineers and pilots also reverse-engineered
captured Soviet-made MiG fighter planes and developed the drones
used over Afghanistan and  Pakistan . And yes, conspiracy fans,
the Apollo astronauts practiced moon-walking in the bomb craters
of the testing range.  Which brings us to the Nazi-Soviet UFO. Citing interviews
with a single unnamed former engineer from government contractor
EG&G -- now part of  URS Corp. (URS)  -- Jacobsen purports to lift the
veil on what really crashed near Roswell,  New Mexico , in 1947
and what happened to the wreckage when it got to Nevada.  The craft, she writes, wasn’t an alien spaceship, as many
have since theorized, nor was it a weather balloon, as the U.S.
military alleged in its clumsy cover story. It was, according to
Jacobsen, a Nazi-inspired Soviet spy plane with Cyrillic letters
embossed on the hull, crewed by malformed adolescents, two of
whom survived the crash.  Nazi Aircraft  Stalin used captured Nazi aircraft designs to build the
plane, according to Jacobsen. She says he had Mengele provide
surgically altered “grotesque child-sized aviators” who were
supposed to climb out of the aircraft and be mistaken for
visitors from Mars -- to sow the kind of confusion in the U.S.
created by Orson Welles’s 1938 “War of the Worlds” radio
broadcast.  The wreckage and the comatose survivors found their way to
the  Nevada  test site, where Area 51 engineers may have
experimented on them for decades, Jacobsen says.  This “revelation,” such as it is, will no doubt gratify
those who already suspected as much. Unfortunately, these
chapters, which diverge so radically from the rest of the book
in their journalistic rigor, may turn off readers who otherwise
would enjoy learning about the creativity, political acumen and
courage of the high-flying Cold Warriors who sought to protect
the free world in the decades after World War II.  “Area 51: An Uncensored History of America’s Top Secret
Military Base” is published by Little, Brown (523 pages,
$27.99). To buy this book in North America click  here .  ( Andrew Dunn  writes for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on the story:
Andrew Dunn in New York at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  