-- 
Safaricom Profit Drops as Costs Grow, Voice Revenue Falls

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-05-18T15:24:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/safaricom-of-kenya-full-year-net-falls-as-costs-rise-voice-revenue-drops.html
Safaricom Ltd. (SAFCOM) , Kenya’s biggest
mobile-phone operator and East Africa’s second-largest company,
said full-year profit fell 13 percent as expenses increased and
revenue from voice calls declined after regulators cut tariffs.  Net income fell to 13.2 billion shillings ($151.7 million),
or 0.333 shillings per share, in the year through March, from
15.2 billion shillings, or 0.382 shillings, a year earlier,
Chief Executive Officer Bob Collymore said today at a briefing
in Nairobi, the capital. Operating costs jumped 25 percent to
45.8 billion shillings  The “key reason” for the decline in profit was a 17 percent
increase in the depreciation charge to 16.3 billion shillings
because of increasing capital expenditure, Chief Financial
Officer Chris Tiffin said in an interview. “We are also paying
more for interconnection tariffs because there are more calls
going out of our network.”  Kenya ’s telecommunications-industry regulator in August
halved the rates that operators charge each other to connect
voice calls across networks. That triggered a round of cuts in
mobile tariffs at Safaricom’s rivals including Airtel Kenya Ltd.,
the domestic unit of Delhi-based  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , and  France
Telecom SA (FTE)  subsidiary Telkom Kenya Ltd., boosting traffic.  The number of minutes of use per user at Safaricom
increased to 96 in March 2011 from 60.6 a year earlier, the
company said in a statement. The number of customers at
Safaricom increased by 8.8 percent to 17.2 million, it said.  Data Focus  The reduction in tariffs has forced mobile operators in
Kenya to become more reliant on data for their revenue.  “In a market where voice tariffs are among the lowest in
 Africa  and voice revenues are increasingly under pricing
pressure, Safaricom has remained focused on its strategy to
develop and grow its non-voice revenue streams,” Collymore said.
“Data remains a pillar.”  Total revenue grew 13 percent to 94.8 billion shillings,
more than the 77.8 billion forecast by analysts. Voice revenue,
which accounts for 67 percent of total sales, declined 1.7
percent, the company said. Data revenue surged 80 percent to
5.37 billion shillings; earnings from SMS climbed 45 percent to
7.54 billion shillings; and M-PESA generated 11.8 billion
shillings, up from 7.56 billion shillings last year.  “Investors will get excited by the growth in data and M-
Pesa,” Aly Khan-Satchu, an independent analyst, said in an
interview in Nairobi. “They have probably seen the worst of the
price war.”  More Cuts  A  task force  appointed by Kenyan Prime Minister  Raila Odinga  backed a further reduction in cross-network charges,
Nairobi-based Business Daily reported yesterday. The decision
means the fee that operators charge each other to connect calls
across networks will decline in July to 1.44 shillings per call
from 2.21 shillings, the newspaper said.  Safaricom shares, which closed trading before the earnings
announcement, dropped 1.3 percent to 3.9 shillings at the 3 p.m.
close in Nairobi. The company, 40 percent-owned by Vodafone Plc,
began trading its stock in June 2008 to become the second-
largest company by market value on the  Nairobi Stock Exchange .  The mean estimate of seven analysts polled by Bloomberg was
for earnings per share of 0.367 shillings.  Capital expenditure in the year to March 31 was 25.8
billion shillings and will be increased to 26 billion shillings
in the current financial year, Collymore said. The company has
spent 140 billion shillings since its inception a decade ago on
areas including building network infrastructure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 