-- 
Scene Last Night: Tigertones, Zhang Xin, Kingdon

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-05-19T16:48:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/scene-last-night-princeton-tigertones-zhang-xin-kingdon-hadid-kamsky.html
Zhang Xin, chief executive officer of
Soho  China  Ltd., sat next to her 10-year-old son, Luc, who was
wearing black tie for the first time.  The occasion was the  China Institute ’s annual gala, at
Cipriani 42nd Street, where attendees included Harbinger Group
Inc.’s  Philip Falcone  and Kingdon Capital Management’s Mark Kingdon.  “This is the English speaker’s table,” Xin said. “My
husband is at the Chinese table.” She is married to  Pan Shiyi ,
chairman of Soho China, a real estate development company the
couple founded in 1995.  Among their guests was  Zaha Hadid  in a silky, billowy
lavender blouse. She’s the architect for several of Soho China’s
projects, including the Galaxy Soho in central Beijing, a curvy
sculptural office and retail complex of connected buildings,
each built around a courtyard.  Virginia A. Kamsky, chairman and chief executive officer of
the advisory firm Kamsky Associates Inc., and chairman of the
China Institute, spoke Chinese at her table with her 13-year-old
son, Michael, Consul General Peng Keyu and Education Consul Wang
Ying.  Kamsky began studying the language at the age of 10 at the
China Institute. It was 1963.     “My mom was concerned about world
peace,” said Kamsky. “She thought China would become a
formidable force.”  These days Kamsky advises the Navy on Asia Pacific
strategy. “I walk across the Pentagon in my high heels,” she
said, lifting her Monique Lhuillier gown to reveal a pair of
sparkling silver shoes. Anna Hu custom-designed her amethyst
ring.  Kamsky and Xin both received the China Institute’s Blue
Cloud Award at the event, which raised $1.3 million. In their
honor, the Princeton Tigertones, dressed in white jackets, sang
Van Morrison’s “Brown Eyed Girl.” Two of the Tigertones,
brothers Matt and Will McCalpin, are the sons of China
Institute’s president, Sara Judge McCalpin.  Sihan Shu, a managing director at Paulson & Co., was
impressed with the institute’s offerings, which include cultural
and business programs. “Maybe I’ll send my son there to learn
Chinese,” Shu said of his 5-month-old.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 