-- 
Schroeder Backs SPD’s Steinbrueck as Potential Merkel Challenger

-- B y   A l a n   C r a w f o r d   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-05-18T14:29:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/schroeder-backs-spd-s-steinbrueck-as-potential-merkel-challenger.html
Peer Steinbrueck, the Social
Democratic finance minister who steered Germany through its
worst economic crisis since World War II, would be a “very good
candidate” to lead the SPD into the next federal election,
former Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder  said.  Schroeder, who led an SPD coalition with the Greens from
1998 until his defeat by  Chancellor Angela Merkel  in 2005, said
there’s “no question” that he would campaign for Steinbrueck
if the former finance minister in Merkel’s first-term government
was chosen to run against her in 2013.  “Steinbrueck would be a very, very good candidate,”
Schroeder said in an interview yesterday at his legal practice
in Hanover. “But it’s a matter for the party chairman to
propose the candidate he feels is the right one.”  Schroeder’s comments are his first public intervention over
the federal election since Steinbrueck, who served in Merkel’s
so-called grand coalition from 2005 to 2009, signaled in an
interview broadcast on May 15 that he might be ready to run.
Schroeder returned to practicing law after losing to Merkel and
chairs Nord Stream AG that’s building a Russian-controlled
natural  gas pipeline  from  Russia  to Germany.  Speculation over Merkel’s future is rife as her Christian
Democrat-led government plumbs historic lows amid  Europe ’s debt
crisis and an unexpected retreat from nuclear power after
 Japan ’s Fukushima disaster. Backing for Merkel’s coalition with
the Free Democrats was unchanged at 35 percent compared with 48
percent for the opposition Social Democrats and Greens, a Forsa
poll for Stern magazine showed today.  Schroeder dismissed the rise of the Greens -- with 26
percent compared to 22 percent for the Social Democrats in the
latest Forsa poll -- saying that he didn’t believe there will be
a Green chancellor “in the foreseeable future.”  ‘Unusually Conservative’  Baden-Wuerttemberg, where a surge in support for the Greens
in March elections helped eject the Christian Democrats from
power after 58 years, was a “special case,” he said. The
Greens in that state are “unusually conservative” and the
regional leader, Winfried Kretschmann, who last week was voted
in as  Germany ’s first Green state prime minister, “can’t
pretend to be a revolutionary,” said Schroeder.  “Nationally, people realize that there has to be a
sensible relationship between the economy and ecology” that
only the Social Democrats can deliver, Schroeder said.  For all Merkel’s present difficulties, she will run again
in 2013 and the coalition will last until then, said Schroeder,
who called early elections in 2005 that he lost.  “The CDU will have to go into the next election with a
serving chancellor,” he said. “Whether she’d then serve the
entire legislative period -- you’ll have to ask her.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Crawford at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  