-- 
SEC Looks to Revamp Credit-Rating Practices Under Dodd-Frank

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-05-18T21:22:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/sec-may-seek-comments-on-dodd-frank-to-overhaul-credit-rating-practices.html
Credit-rating  companies would have to
release more information on how they assess debt securities,
ensure the quality of ratings and prevent conflicts of interest
under rules proposed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  SEC commissioners voted 5-0 to seek comment for 60 days on
a 517-page set of  regulations , part of the Dodd-Frank Act’s
attempt to reshape the role of the credit raters after they were
blamed by lawmakers for fueling the housing bubble by handing
out top grades on bonds tied to risky mortgages.  “Today’s proposals are part of a concerted effort by the
SEC to enhance the credit-rating industry in light of the
financial crisis,” SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said in prepared
remarks before commissioners voted in Washington.  Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted in July, sought
to force changes in the credit-rating industry after losing bets
on debt endorsed by firms such as  Moody’s Corp. (MCO)  and McGraw-Hill
Cos.’ Standard & Poor’s unit helped topple Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and forced the government to bail out firms
including American International Group Inc.  The rules, which would apply to the 10 firms registered
with the SEC as “nationally recognized statistical rating
organizations,” target potential conflicts of interest by
barring employees involved in sales and marketing from ratings
work. The proposal would give the SEC authority to de-register
firms found to have violated the conflict-of-interest rule.  Employee Review  Ratings companies would also be required to review the
activities of employees who leave to join firms whose products
they have rated, and to notify the SEC when such moves occur.  Outside contractors hired by ratings firms to assess asset-
backed securities would have to provide information on their
examinations and conclusions, making those reports public for
the first time.  SEC Commissioner  Kathleen Casey , one of two Republicans on
the five-member panel, said some aspects of the proposal
“threaten to cross the line into regulating the substance of
credit ratings.”  Casey cited as an example a requirement that credit-raters
put ratings on review and potentially re-issue them when they
find conflicts of interest involving former employees.  The requirement, which would let a firm “apply its own
procedures and methodologies to determine whether the credit
rating should be revised,” appropriately avoids regulating the
substance of ratings, the SEC said in the text of the proposal,
which was released after today’s meeting.  SEC commissioners -- under a Dodd-Frank directive to find a
more “appropriate” standard to gauge risk -- have proposed
stripping references to credit ratings from broker-dealers’
liquidity standards and regulations for money-market funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 