-- 
Senate Bill Would Limit Savers Using 401(k)s as Rainy-Day Funds

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-05-18T20:08:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/senate-bill-would-limit-savers-using-401-k-s-as-rainy-day-funds.html
Workers will be limited in tapping
their 401(k) retirement plans for loans under legislation two
senators introduced today that’s designed to counter the erosion
of retirement assets.  “Because of the difficult economic times, more and more
Americans are treating their retirement accounts as rainy day
funds,” Senator  Herb Kohl , a Wisconsin Democrat, said in a
statement today. “A 401(k) savings account should not be used
as a piggy bank.”  Kohl, 76, who’s chairman of the  Senate Special Committee on
Aging , introduced the “SEAL 401(k) Savings Act” with Senator
Mike Enzi, 67, a Wyoming Republican. The bill would reduce the
number of loans workers may take from a 401(k) and give
participants more time to repay after losing a job. It will
allow savers to contribute to their plan after taking a hardship
withdrawal and ban debit cards linked to the accounts, according
to the  legislation .  The Senate bill would limit the number of outstanding loans
for each participant to three. Employers would have the option
to reduce the number for their plans, said Joe Bonfiglio, a
spokesman for Kohl’s aging committee. There is no rule right now
limiting the number of loans workers may take and it varies by
company, Bonfiglio said.  Leaving a Job  Almost 28 percent of participants in 401(k)-type accounts
had an outstanding loan at the end of 2010, which is a record,
according to a  study  released today by benefits consultant Aon
Hewitt, a unit of Chicago-based  Aon Corp. (AON)  The average
outstanding loan balance was $7,860 and 58 percent of plans
permit participants to have two or more loans at a time, said
Aon Hewitt, which used a database of about 2 million employees
in 110 plans.  “The big risk with loans is that participants leave their
job,” said Alison Borland, head of retirement strategy for Aon
Hewitt. Most 401(k) plans require employees to repay loans in
full when leaving a job, usually within 60 days, said Borland,
who’s based in Nashville,  Tennessee . Almost 70 percent default,
Borland said, so the unpaid funds get counted as taxable income
and may add to the burden of a jobless worker.  Depending on the rules of an employer’s 401(k) plan,
workers generally may borrow from their retirement account for
any reason and pay the loan back with interest. About 89 percent
of participants were in plans offering loans in 2009, according
to the Washington-based  Employee Benefit Research Institute ,
which has a database of 21 million 401(k) savers.  Payroll Deductions  Workers generally may borrow as much as 50 percent of their
vested account balance up to a maximum of $50,000, according to
the  Internal Revenue Service . The loan must be repaid within
five years, unless the money was used to buy a primary home.  Employees can repay the loan through payroll deductions and
can continue to make contributions to their retirement accounts,
Borland said. More than 80 percent of those with a loan do
continue to save, she said.  “For these workers who take a loan, repay it and continue
to save, they haven’t done significant damage to their
retirement prospects,” Borland said. “They are at significant
risk if they change jobs or lose their job.”  The average interest rate on loans from 401(k) plans is the
prime rate plus 1 percent, currently 4.25 percent,  David Wray ,
president of the  Profit Sharing/401k Council of America,  said in
an e-mail. The median loan origination fee in 401(k) plans is
$75 and the median annual loan maintenance fee is $25, according
to the council, a Chicago-based non-profit association of
employers that sponsor retirement plans.  Tax Penalty  “Our bill would allow for a greater period of time for the
loan to be paid back thereby helping families pay back the loan
and allowing the funds to be put back into their retirement
savings and avoid the tax penalty,” Senator Enzi said in a
 statement  today.  For workers who lose their jobs before repaying a loan, the
bill would let them pay down their balances into an individual
retirement account before filing their taxes for that year. The
IRS and Treasury Department would need to issue guidance on how
the process will work, Bonfiglio of the aging committee said.
About $663 million of 401(k) loans in 2008 were deemed taxable
distributions, according to a December  report  by the Department
of Labor.  Loan Flexibility  The flexibility to take loans or withdrawals is an
attractive feature of the accounts for some participants, said
Sarah Holden, senior director of retirement and investor
research for the  Investment Company Institute , a mutual-fund
trade group based in  Washington .  “Knowing that you can borrow the money if you need to
frees people to participate in the plan and contribute more,”
she said.  About 19 percent of participants in 401(k)-type plans rate
their efforts toward reaching retirement goals as “very
effective” and only 16 percent are “confident” they will have
enough money to retire on time, according to a  survey  released
today by  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  The New York-based money manager has
more than $325 billion in defined contribution assets under
management, according to the report.  A 401(k) plan’s terms also may let individuals take a
 hardship  withdrawal that doesn’t have to be repaid if the
borrower demonstrates a financial need such as medical or
funeral expenses. That money generally is included in an
employee’s income for tax purposes and may trigger an additional
10 percent tax penalty, according to the  IRS . Employees also are
generally prohibited from making contributions to their account
for at least six months after taking the withdrawal, the IRS
said.  Contributions Can Continue  The legislation would allow participants to continue to
contribute during the six months following a hardship withdrawal
because the loss of employee and company matching contributions
during that period can further erode retirement savings,
according to Kohl’s statement. Kohl said on May 13 that he won’t
seek re-election next year.  The bill also would ban products that promote so-called
leakage of savings including 401(k) debit cards, which may carry
high fees. While use of 401(k) debit cards is not widespread,
they have been offered by companies in the past, Bonfiglio said.
Using the card essentially triggers a loan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Collins  in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 