-- 
Singapore Prime Minister Lee Reshuffles Cabinet After Polls

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-05-18T10:13:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/singapore-prime-minister-lee-reshuffles-cabinet-after-polls-1-.html
Singapore ’s Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong reshuffled his cabinet after five ministers stepped down
following the ruling party’s smallest margin of victory at this
month’s general election.  K. Shanmugam will be minister for foreign affairs,
succeeding George Yeo who was defeated in the May 7 polls,
according to a statement today. Tharman Shanmugaratnam, who will
retain his position as finance minister, is also deputy prime
minister and manpower minister. Teo Chee Hean remains as deputy
prime minister.  Wong Kan Seng, National Development Minister Mah Bow Tan
and Transport Minister Raymond Lim will retire from the cabinet,
according to the statement.  The new lineup is a “fresh slate after a watershed
election,” said Lee at a press conference today. The government
will “review existing policies and approaches” and “engage a
new generation of Singaporeans,” he said. Shanmugaratnam, who
has been Minister of Finance since December 2007, is a former
education minister.  The announcement comes after Singapore’s former prime
ministers  Lee Kuan Yew  and Goh Chok Tong announced May 14 they
will resign from the cabinet to make way for younger leaders.
Lee Kuan Yew will be made senior adviser to sovereign wealth
fund Government of Singapore Investment Corp., while Goh is
senior adviser to the Monetary Authority of Singapore. The new
cabinet will be sworn in on May 21.  Smallest Margin  “The most important decisions are still made in the
cabinet at a collective leadership level, so you can expect a
great degree of policy continuity despite the changes,” said Ng Soon Nam, Singapore-based chief investment officer at Nikko
Asset Management, which oversees about $126 billion. “It’s good
that they are refreshing the cabinet.”  Prime Minister Lee’s ruling  People’s Action Party  won the
general election with the smallest margin of popular votes since
independence. He pledged his party will change the way it rules
after the opposition won a record number of seats in elections
that must be held every five years.  The party that has ruled Singapore for more than five
decades won 81 out of 87 parliamentary seats and 60.1 percent of
the popular vote. Lim Hwee Hua, Singapore’s first woman minister
and who helps oversee the finance and transport ministries, also
lost this month. A parliamentary seat is a requirement to hold a
ministerial post in the cabinet.  Highest Paid  Lee Kuan Yew, the father of the current premier, was
Singapore’s prime minister when it gained independence in 1965
and handed over to Goh in 1990. The younger Lee took over from
Goh in 2004, who stayed in the cabinet as the senior minister.  Singapore’s ministers are among the world’s highest paid,
earning millions of dollars annually as the government
benchmarks their wages against salaries of chief executive
officers and other top earners in the country. The government
says such earnings prevent corruption and help attract and
retain talent.  Opposition parties in this month’s elections decried the
amount of ministerial compensation and compared their wages to
those of ordinary Singaporeans who are facing a rising cost of
living and depressed wages as a result of an influx of foreign
workers.  Lee last announced changes to his cabinet in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  