-- 
Slowing Malaysian Growth, Faster Inflation Pose Policy Challenge

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 
2011-05-18T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/slowing-malaysian-growth-faster-inflation-pose-policy-challenge.html
Malaysia ’s growth unexpectedly eased
last quarter as manufacturing and services moderated, posing a
challenge for policy makers pressured by accelerating inflation
to raise interest rates.  Gross domestic product increased 4.6 percent in the three
months through March from a year earlier, after expanding 4.8
percent in the previous quarter, the central bank said in a
statement in Kuala Lumpur yesterday. The median estimate of 21
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 4.9 percent gain.  Asian central banks from  China  to Thailand and  India  are
raising rates or allowing currency appreciation to curb price
gains as oil and food costs climb and their economies expand. A
report yesterday showed Malaysia’s inflation accelerated to a
two-year high in April and the pressure may increase as Prime
Minister Najib Razak reduces subsidies to control the  budget
deficit , passing on rising costs to consumers and businesses.  “The central bank is faced with an uneasy challenge
because they can’t lean on spurring growth while inflation is
still on the upside,” said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja , an economist at
OSK-DMG Group in  Singapore . “Inflation cannot be discounted and
could remain elevated in the near term. We are expecting more
rate hikes.”  The Malaysian ringgit has jumped about 6 percent in the
past year, strengthening to below 3 per  U.S. dollar  for the
first time in more than 13 years on April 25. The currency rose
0.3 percent to 3.034 per dollar yesterday. The benchmark FTSE
Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index added 0.3 percent.  More Moderate Pace  “Most sectors expanded but at a more moderate pace during
the quarter,” Bank Negara Malaysia Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz
said at a press briefing yesterday. “Domestic demand was
supported by sustained private  capital spending . The external
demand during the quarter was supported” partly by sustained
strong regional demand for commodities, she said.  The Southeast Asian nation’s economy may expand 5 percent
to 6 percent this year, after growing 7.2 percent in 2010,
according to the central bank. Najib has offered incentives and
tax breaks as part of measures to boost growth by attracting
investment.  Bank Negara said yesterday it will ease regulations in the
nation’s foreign-exchange market to help cut transaction costs
for direct investments and trade financing. The central bank
will abolish limits on loans that Malaysian companies can borrow
from local or offshore units of the same group for direct
investments overseas, it said.  Investment Grows  Malaysia will also scrap a 5 million-ringgit ($1.65 million)
limit on foreign-currency one can borrow from overseas lenders
for trade financing purposes. Both measures will be effective
from June 1.  Investment as measured by gross fixed capital formation
advanced 6.5 percent last quarter after a 10 percent increase
the previous three months, while the  construction industry  grew
3.8 percent, compared with 5.6 percent previously, the central
bank said.  Malaysia’s manufacturing industry grew 5.4 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier, easing from 6.2 percent the
previous three months, and services gained 5.9 percent after
rising 6.1 percent previously.  “Growth is on a steady path and  Bank Negara  isn’t too
worried about it, but inflation is probably faster than what
they’re expecting,” said Euben Paracuelles, a Singapore-based
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. “We can expect Bank Negara to
maintain a bias on inflation and our view is for them to
continue with rate hikes, probably at the next meeting.”  Rate Increase  Consumer prices climbed 3.2 percent in April from a year
earlier, the statistics department said yesterday. Prices may
increase 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent this year from 1.7 percent
in 2010, the central bank said in March.  Zeti raised the benchmark rate this month for the first
time since July, saying the economy was “firmly on a steady
growth path.” The overnight policy rate was raised a quarter of
a percentage point to 3 percent while lenders were ordered to
set aside more cash as reserves.  The interest rate “remains supportive of growth,” the
central bank  said  May 5. The future stance of monetary policy
will depend on the assessment of the risk to growth and
inflation prospects, it said. The next rate meeting is scheduled
for July 7.  The Star newspaper reported this week that the Malaysian
government will conduct a mid-year review of state subsidies on
essential items including petrol, citing Ismail Sabri Yaakob,
domestic trade, cooperatives and consumerism minister. The
government cut sugar subsidies this month.  “The major concern for policy makers would be to address
rising inflation instead of addressing slower growth,” said
Azrul Azwar Ahmad Tajudin, chief economist at Bank Islam
Malaysia Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . If “they foresee inflationary
pressures intensifying further in the next few quarters, no
doubt they will have to raise interest rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  