-- 
South African Voting Ends as Ruling ANC Faces Backlash Over Services, Jobs

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n ,   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-05-18T18:06:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/south-africans-vote-as-ruling-anc-faces-backlash-over-services-and-jobs.html
South Africans  voted in municipal
elections today that could end the ruling  African National
Congress ’s control of several towns, as discontent over a lack
of basic services threatens to undermine its support.  “We are satisfied that we have been able to conduct a free
and fair election,” Pansy Tlakula, the chief electoral officer
at the  Independent Electoral Commission , told the South African
Broadcasting Corp. after polls closed at 7 p.m. local time.
First results are expected later tonight, according to the
commission.  The ANC’s leading role in ending white rule helped it
secure more than 60 percent support in elections held since the
first all-race vote in 1994. Now opposition parties are
capitalizing on discontent over a 25 percent jobless rate and
the fact that about a quarter of the nation’s households lack
proper sanitation.  The ANC’s main challenger is the Democratic Alliance, which
increased its share of the national vote to 16.7 percent in
2009, from 12.4 percent in 2004. The party, led by former
journalist  Helen Zille , 60, aims to win the cities of Pretoria,
Johannesburg and Port Elizabeth for the first time, and retain
control of Cape Town.  Losing Ground  “The ANC can lose quite a bit of ground to the DA who have
shown a very strong record of service delivery in the councils
it governs,” said Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based
economist at Nomura Plc. “Service delivery is what the
reduction in support for the ANC is all about.”  The ANC, led by former party intelligence chief  Jacob Zuma ,
69, is backed by 59 percent of voters, down from 66 percent in
2009, according to a survey of 2,050 likely voters interviewed
by survey company Ipsos Markinor since mid-April. The DA is
supported by 19 percent.  “I’d want to see the DA win because life is rough in
Diepsloot,” said Mary Moiloa, 25, an unemployed resident of the
township north of Johannesburg. “Many are dissatisfied with the
ANC, but they say it’s better to stay with the party than try
someone new who they do not know. Me, I am tired of living like
this, we need change.”  While some of the country’s almost 29,000 polling stations
didn’t receive ballot papers in time, voting was “by and large
very, very peaceful,” Tlakula said.  Registered Voters  The elections were contested by 121 parties and 53,596
candidates, 667 of whom stood as independents. About 23.6
million people registered to vote.  The ANC won outright control of 200 of  South Africa ’s 283
municipalities in 2006, while the DA won seven and formed ruling
coalitions in 11 others. Last year, the Independent Democrats,
which won 0.9 of the national vote in 2009, agreed to disband
and merge with the DA.  Support for the ruling party may be weakening. South Africa
had a record 111 protests over a lack of water, sanitation and
other services last year, according to Johannesburg-based
Municipal IQ, an independent local government research group.  Zuma criss-crossed the country to highlight the ANC’s role
in bringing about democracy and its achievements since taking
power, including building 2.7 million homes for the poor and
giving 6 million households access to clean water.  “This vote was fought for and people paid a supreme
sacrifice,” Zuma said after casting his ballot in his home
village of Nkandla in the eastern KwaZulu-Natal province. “I
voted for the ANC. I want development here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  Nef at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  