-- 
South Africa’s Ruling ANC Leads in Early Results From Municipal Election

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-05-19T08:11:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/south-africa-s-ruling-anc-leads-in-early-results-from-municipal-election.html
South Africa’s ruling  African
National Congress  led in votes counted from municipal elections
as discontent over joblessness and a lack of basic services
lifted support for the main opposition party.  With about 6.1 million votes counted, the ANC had 61.4
percent of the vote, while the Democratic Alliance had 25.9
percent, according to data posted by the  Independent Electoral
Commission  in  Pretoria , the capital. The IEC estimates 40
percent of the country’s 23.7 million registered voters cast
ballots. The DA and ANC said none of the major cities would
change hands.  The ANC could lose a few percentage points nationwide,
Secretary-General Gwede Mantashe told reporters in Pretoria
today. “Any loss is a wake-up call for a political party,” he
said. “But we must remember that our traditional voter base
doesn’t always come in great numbers for the local elections.”  The ANC has won every election since 1994 with more than 60
percent of the vote as many black supporters remain loyal to the
party because of its decades-long fight against apartheid. Now,
rising unemployment in a country where one in four people are
without jobs, and a lack of basic services such as sanitation in
many townships, is beginning to weaken that support.  The DA has calculated that it may win as much as 25 percent
of the vote, up from 16.6 percent in 2006, even if  Cape Town  is
the only city it is likely to govern, party election strategist
Ryan Coetzee said in an interview in Pretoria.  ‘Momentum Growth’  “There’s been a shift in support from black voters,”
Coetzee said. “It’s a matter of momentum growth. It sets up a
platform for future growth and for 2014”, when the next
presidential and parliamentary elections are held.  Still, Coetzee said the DA was unlikely to win control of
any major city outside Cape Town, which it already governs.  While the DA holds a lead in Johannesburg, it says its
current figures in that city may drop significantly. The ANC is
ahead in  Port Elizabeth , which some analysts had expected to
fall to the DA.  “For the DA the imperative is to increase its share of the
popular vote,” Aubrey Matshiqi, a political analyst at the
Center for Policy Studies, said in a phone interview from
Johannesburg yesterday. “They need to maintain their momentum.
If they go anywhere near 20 percent that would show they are
able to attract new black voters.”  Opinion Poll  A May 16 survey by polling company, Ipsos Markinor, showed
the ANC’s support may drop to 59 percent from 66 percent in
2009. The poll of 2,050 likely voters gave the DA 19 percent.  President  Jacob Zuma  has highlighted the ANC’s role in
bringing about democracy and its achievements since taking
power, including building 2.7 million homes for the poor and
giving 6 million households access to clean water.  “This vote was fought for and people paid a supreme
sacrifice,” Zuma said after casting his ballot in his home
village of Nkandla in the eastern KwaZulu-Natal province.  Africa’s biggest economy shed 14,000 jobs in the first
quarter, pushing the  unemployment rate  to 25 percent, the
highest of 61 countries tracked by Bloomberg. South Africa had a
record 111 protests against a lack of basic services such as
water and housing last year, according to Johannesburg-based
Municipal IQ, an independent local government research group.  “I voted for change,” Lebogang Mohlue, 18, a student,
said yesterday after voting for the DA in Johannesburg’s Brixton
area. “I want to have a job when I finish my studies so I voted
for a party that can help create jobs.”  The rand has declined 4 percent against the dollar this
year, while the benchmark FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index fell
0.9 percent in the same period. The currency strengthened 0.3
percent to 6.9023 by 9:12 a.m. in Johannesburg.  The ANC won outright control of 200 of  South Africa ’s 283
municipalities in 2006, while the DA won 7 and formed ruling
coalitions in 11 others. Last year, the Independent Democrats,
which won 0.9 of the national vote in 2009’s parliamentary
elections, agreed to disband and merge with the DA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 