-- 
Spanish Exports Drive First-Quarter Economic Growth, Offsetting Austerity

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-05-18T08:46:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/spanish-export-gains-drive-first-quarter-economic-growth.html
Spanish exports continued to drive
economic growth in the first quarter, offsetting a slump in
domestic demand caused by the deepest austerity measures in
three decades.  Exports rose 5 percent from the previous three months, when
they expanded 3.9 percent, and grew 11.2 percent from a year
earlier, the  National Statistics Institute  in  Madrid  said today.
Household spending was unchanged from the previous three months,
when it increased 0.3 percent. The economy expanded 0.3 percent
from the fourth quarter and 0.8 percent from a year earlier, INE
said, confirming an initial estimate from May 13.  The gain in exports is bolstering earnings at some of the
country’s biggest manufacturers, while doing little to reduce
the European Union’s highest jobless rate and boost domestic
demand. Madrid-based  Acerinox SA (ACX) , the world’s largest stainless-
steel maker, reported a six-fold increase in first-quarter
profit on May 3 and said global demand allowed the company to be
“optimistic” about the following three months.  Even with the economy expanding, Spain’s unemployment rate
rose to 21.3 percent in the first quarter, threatening to
undermine predictions by the Socialist government that the
economy will expand 1.3 percent this year. Domestic demand fell
0.6 percent from a year earlier, INE said.  “Exports accelerated but so did imports, and foreign sales
will not be able to sustain growth over the whole year,” said
Thibault Mercier, an economist at BNP Paribas in Paris. “We
expect growth to slow down in  Spain  in the next quarter.”  Debt Crisis  Spain’s economy emerged from almost two years of recession
in 2010, just as  Europe ’s debt crisis was spreading and
increasing borrowing costs in the region’s high-deficit
countries. The government imposed an austerity plan to slash a
deficit that reached 11 percent of gross domestic product in
2009, the euro region’s third largest, to 6 percent this year.  The squeeze on Spanish households, pressured by rising
mortgage costs and unemployment, is eroding support for the
government, which faces elections in 13 of 17 regions on May 22.
The Socialist Party is set to lose most of the races, including
in the region of Castilla-La Mancha, which it has controlled for
three decades, according to a poll by the state-run Center for
Sociological Research on May 5.  A general election is due by March 2012, and polls also
suggest the Socialists will lose to the opposition  People’s
Party .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling@bloomberg.net . 