-- 
Strauss-Kahn Asks Again for Bail

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-05-19T15:30:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/strauss-kahn-lawyers-file-request-for-court-to-reconsider-denial-of-bail.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn , who resigned
yesterday as head of the  International Monetary Fund , asked a
second judge to release him on bail over charges that he
sexually assaulted and attempted to rape a hotel maid in
Manhattan.  Strauss-Kahn has been at New York’s Rikers Island jail
complex since he was ordered held in custody at his arraignment
May 16 before Judge Melissa Jackson. In a filing yesterday in
state court, Strauss-Kahn, a French citizen, said he didn’t
intend to leave the U.S. without court permission and waived his
extradition rights.  “In the event I fail to voluntarily appear in the New York
court for any such proceedings, I waive the issuance and service
of the warrant provided by law for my extradition from the
Republic of  France  or any other jurisdiction,” Strauss-Kahn
said in an affidavit filed in court.  A bail hearing is scheduled for today before State Supreme
Court Justice Michael Obus. Strauss-Kahn informed the Executive
Board of the IMF of his intention to resign as managing director
with immediate effect, the IMF said in an e-mailed statement.  “I want to say that I deny with the greatest possible
firmness all of the allegations that have been made against
me,” Strauss-Kahn said in a letter included in the IMF
statement.  Home Detention  Strauss-Kahn’s bail proposal includes a requirement that he
be confined to home detention 24 hours a day in Manhattan with
electronic monitoring, in addition to posting $1 million in cash
for bail, according to court filings. He previously surrendered
his French passport to the  district attorney ’s office. His so-
called laissez-passer travel document issued by the  United
Nations  will be given to his lawyers, who will turn it over to
prosecutors, according to the filing.  Strauss-Kahn said in the resignation statement that he
wanted “to devote all my strength, all my time, and all my
energy to proving my innocence.”  In denying bail on May 16, Jackson agreed with prosecutors
that Strauss-Kahn might flee if released.  Assistant District Attorney John “Artie” McConnell told
Jackson at the bail hearing that Strauss-Kahn had every
incentive to flee. If convicted of the most serious charges
against him, he could be sentenced to as long as 25 years in
prison, McConnell said.  ‘Network of Contacts’  McConnell also said France doesn’t extradite its nationals
and that Strauss-Kahn has “substantial” resources and “an
extensive network of contacts throughout the world.”  Erin Duggan, chief spokeswoman for  Manhattan  District
Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr., declined to comment on today’s bail
hearing.  Benjamin Brafman, a lawyer for Strauss-Kahn, has said his
client will plead not guilty to the charges.  Another court hearing in the case is set for tomorrow, when
prosecutors will have to disclose whether a grand jury has
indicted Strauss-Kahn.  The hotel housekeeper who reported being attacked testified
before the grand jury yesterday, her lawyer, Jeffrey Shapiro,
said in an interview.  “She was exhausted and emotionally drained,” he said. “I
don’t know that she’s finished. I don’t know that she knows.”  Shapiro said he thought the district attorney was opposed
to the bail application. He said his client was “very concerned
about the idea that this man would be free.”  Defense Argument  At the May 16 bail hearing, Brafman made an argument that
may suggest the defense will claim the woman consented in the
alleged incident.  “There is nothing about this incident which was in any way
consensual and the evidence in this case will absolutely
establish that,” Shapiro said today.  Executive Assistant District Attorney Karen Friedman Agnifilo, chief of the office’s trial division, won’t work on
the case because she is married to Marc Agnifilo, an attorney at
Brafman’s New York-based law firm.  Friedman Agnifilo recused herself from the case “as soon
as the law firm of Brafman & Associates, with which her husband
is associated, was engaged as counsel for the defendant,”
Duggan said in a statement. “This is consistent with routine
practice.”  Friedman Agnifilo and Marc Agnifilo didn’t return calls
seeking comment yesterday.  ‘Correctly Treated’  The French consul general in  New York  visited Strauss-Kahn
in a police precinct and later at Rikers Island, said Marie-
Laure Charrier, a consulate spokeswoman. The visit by the
official is standard practice when a French citizen is arrested
in the U.S., she said yesterday in an interview.  Philippe Lalliot, the consul general, went to see Strauss-
Kahn to make sure he’s being “correctly treated” and receiving
proper food, clothes and medications, Charrier said.  The consul general hasn’t discussed any legal issues
surrounding Strauss-Kahn’s arrest or imprisonment, nor offered
help regarding bail, Charrier said.  “There is no interference in the judicial process
itself,” she said.  In Strauss-Kahn’s request for bail, his lawyers said his
family has ties in the U.S.  “Mr. Strauss-Kahn’s history and background weigh strongly
in favor of an order of release on bail,” his lawyers said in
court papers. “Mr. Strauss-Kahn is a loving husband and father
and a highly regarded international diplomat, lawyer,
politician, economist and professor with no prior criminal
record.”  Married Man  He has been married for more than 10 years to Anne Sinclair, who was born in New York, according to court filings.
She completed part of her secondary schooling in the U.S.  The couple has lived in  Washington  since November 2007,
when he was named managing director of the IMF, according to the
filing. A copy of a deed in Sinclair’s name to a Georgetown home
bought in 2007 for $4 million was included in yesterday’s
filing.  At the May 16 bail hearing, Brafman asked Jackson to let
Strauss-Kahn stay with his daughter, who lives in Manhattan.  Camille Strauss-Kahn is a graduate student at  Columbia
University  and lives on Manhattan’s Upper West Side, according
to yesterday’s filing.  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 1225782, Criminal Court
of the City of New York (New York County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York Criminal Court at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  