-- 
Strauss-Kahn Lawyers Caution Television Broadcasters Using Handcuff Film

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-05-18T09:58:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/strauss-kahn-lawyers-caution-tv-stations-using-handcuff-photos.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn’s lawyers have
told French television stations that broadcasting images of the
International Monetary Fund chief in handcuffs may violate his
rights to dignity and the presumption of innocence.  Strauss-Kahn’s Paris lawyers have spoken with media outlets
to express concern over images of him in handcuffs after being
accused of sexually assaulting a maid at a Manhattan hotel, said
Dominique de Leusse de Syon, a member of his legal team.  “For the moment, the French media has been very
restrained” in avoiding saying or writing anything to imply
guilt, de Leusse said in a telephone interview. “The problem is
the images, whether they convey Mr. Strauss-Kahn as guilty.”  Images of the 62-year-old Strauss-Kahn, looking wan and
haggard, being escorted handcuffed by police have played
repeatedly on national television, sharply contrasting with
media customs in  France , where the accused are rarely shown in
ways that make their defendant status obvious.  “We’re not used to seeing trial images, courtroom images
coming from the U.S.,” Socialist presidential candidate
Francois Hollande said today on i-Tele radio. “We have before
us something out of a TV series. But we’re in reality.”  France’s audiovisual authority has cautioned television
stations to use “the greatest restraint” in broadcasting
images of people facing criminal charges.  “The principle of freedom of expression and the right to
information must not short-change the fact that such images are
capable of infringing respect for these people’s dignity,” the
 Conseil Superieur de l’Audiovisuel  said on its website.  Fifty-seven percent of French people surveyed said they
thought the man who was a presidential front-runner until his
May 14 arrest was the victim of a plot, a CSA poll released
today showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 