-- 
Strauss-Kahn Accuser in Sex Attack Didn’t Know IMF Chief, Her Lawyer Says

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-05-18T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/strauss-kahn-assault-accuser-never-saw-imf-chief-before-her-lawyer-says.html
The hotel housekeeper who told police
that  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  sexually assaulted and attempted to
rape her didn’t know he was chief of the  International Monetary
Fund  and had never met him, a lawyer for the woman said.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, is accused of attacking the woman around
noon on May 14 at the Sofitel hotel in midtown Manhattan and
forcing her to perform sex acts. Strauss-Kahn’s lawyer said in
court that he denies the charges. The former French finance
minister was ordered held without bail as a flight risk.  “She did not know who he was and did not see him before,”
Jeffrey Shapiro, the woman’s lawyer, said yesterday in a phone
interview.  Shapiro, a personal injury and medical malpractice lawyer
at  New York ’s  Jeffrey J. Shapiro & Associates LLC , said he was
introduced to the 32-year-old woman by a friend and is offering
her counsel. All aspects of the criminal case are being handled
by the office of Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr., he
said. Shapiro declined to discuss what happened May 14 and said
his client is scheduled to testify before a grand jury this
week.  Strauss-Kahn’s next court date is set for May 20. He’s on
suicide watch at New York’s  Rikers Island  jail complex,
according to a person familiar with the matter who couldn’t be
named because the information isn’t public.  At a court hearing on May 16, Benjamin Brafman, Strauss-
Kahn’s lawyer, made an argument that may suggest the defense
will claim the woman consented in the alleged incident.  ‘Forensic Evidence’  “The forensic evidence, we believe are not consistent with
forcible encounter,” Brafman told  Manhattan  Criminal Court
Judge Melissa Jackson. “This is a very, very defensible case.”  Brafman declined to comment on the case.  The woman, who isn’t being identified by authorities or her
lawyer because she reported being a victim of a sex crime, is a
native of  Guinea  who has been in the U.S. for seven years,
Shapiro said. She has a 15-year-old daughter and, until the
attack, lived in the borough of the Bronx in  New York City . She
speaks English and French. He said she wasn’t giving any press
interviews.  “This is a woman who does not have an agenda,” Shapiro
said. “She did what she was told to do, which was report
this.”  Shapiro said the woman, who picked Strauss-Kahn out of a
police lineup, came to the country under difficult
circumstances, which he didn’t specify, and supported herself
and her daughter. She has worked at the Sofitel for about three
years, he said.  “Sofitel’s management reaffirms that its first priority is
to ensure the safety of its guests and staff,” Sofitel said in
a May 16 statement. The hotel said it has put its managers at
the disposal of authorities investigating the incident.  Victim’s ‘World’  “In the world that she came from, only the rich and
powerful have the benefit of the law,” Shapiro said. “She’s
very grateful” that wasn’t the case in the U.S., he said.  The alleged attack has disrupted the woman’s life, Shapiro
said. She came home May 15 to find dozens of reporters gathered
outside, and she hasn’t been back since, the lawyer said. Her
daughter has been staying with a friend, he said.  “She’s in the spotlight of this international stage,”
Shapiro said. “She fears for her future, she fears for her
daughter’s and her own safety.”  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 1225782, Criminal Court
of the City of New York (New York County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 