-- 
Strauss-Kahn’s ’Invisible’ Alleged Victim Gets French Feminists’ Support

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-05-18T12:41:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/strauss-kahn-s-invisible-alleged-victim-gets-french-feminists-support.html
French women’s groups are criticizing
what they say is the lack of attention the hotel maid at the
center of Dominique Strauss-Kahn’s alleged rape attempt is
getting from politicians and the country’s media.  They point out that the torrent of reaction has all but
ignored the 32-year-old woman because of a so-called code of
silence when it comes to the alleged victims of powerful men
like Strauss-Kahn, the head of the  International Monetary Fund .  “The maid is  invisible  and the IMF chief gets the
support,” Clementine Autain, who was raped at the age of 23 and
co-founded Paris-based feminist group Mix-Cite, wrote on her
blog. “The decency that everyone talks about would require that
they have at least a word for the woman.”  Comments like Autain’s are forcing politicians to note that
beyond presuming Strauss-Kahn’s innocence, they need to spare a
thought for the housekeeper at the Sofitel hotel in Midtown
Manhattan who Strauss-Kahn is charged with attempting to rape in
his suite. Prime Minister Francois Fillon said yesterday that
there should be “respect and compassion” for “the alleged
victim.”  The case, with its image of a haggard Strauss-Kahn
handcuffed and led away by  New York  police officers, has shaken
France. A former finance minister, Strauss-Kahn, 62, is being
held without bail at New York’s Rikers Island jail complex while
awaiting his next court appearance on May 20.  Strauss-Kahn, who had been the leading Socialist Party
contender for the French presidential elections in May 2012,
didn’t enter a plea at his May 16 court hearing. He denies the
charges, his lawyer Benjamin Brafman said.  ‘A Shock’  “It’s traumatic,” Socialist presidential candidate
Francois Hollande said today on Radio Classique. “In France
it’s not possible to broadcast images of a trial. In the U.S.,
it’s the rule. With the images circulating, they have force.
They create a shock.”  Several French politicians have questioned the allegations,
saying it was unlikely the man they know would have done what
he’s accused of, effectively challenging the version of the
alleged victim, a native of  Guinea  who has been in the U.S. for
seven years.  Her lawyer, Jeffrey Shapiro, from New York’s Jeffrey J. Shapiro & Associates LLC, said she has a 15-year-old daughter
and, until the attack, lived in the borough of the Bronx in  New
York City . She speaks English and French.  “She did not know who he was and did not see him before,”
Shapiro said yesterday. “This is a woman who does not have an
agenda. She did what she was told to do, which was report
this.”  ‘Can’t Believe It’  According to the criminal complaint, Strauss-Kahn “engaged
in oral sexual conduct and anal sexual conduct with another
person by forcible compulsion.” He allegedly closed the door of
the room to keep the woman from leaving, grabbed her breasts and
tried to pull down her pantyhose, according to court papers.  “I, who have known him for 30 years, I cannot believe
it,” Pierre Moscovici, a Socialist lawmaker, said on  France  2
Television yesterday.  Immediately after his arrest, Strauss-Kahn’s  Socialist
Party  colleagues asked that he be treated with decency and
respect without once mentioning the hotel maid.  “I didn’t hear Martine Aubry, Elisabeth Guigou, Segolene Royal express any compassion for the victim,” said Gisele
Halimi, 83, a prominent former feminist lawyer. “It’s a pity
because if there is one thing that should prevail over
friendship and clan spirit, it is respect for women.”  Rape Taboo  More than half of French people think that Strauss-Kahn is
the victim of a conspiracy, according to an opinion poll carried
out by the CSA agency.  Fifty-seven percent said there was a plot against him while
thirty-five percent said that this wasn’t the case. Eleven
percent didn’t reply.  The survey was carried out on May 16 by telephone with a
sample of 1,007 people, the CSA said on its website, giving no
margin of error.  Mix-Cite , the feminist group that launched a campaign
called “shame must change sides” in November to bring more
openness to issues surrounding rape, yesterday denounced the
lack of sympathy for the alleged victim,  Agence France-Presse 
reported.  “I am very surprised that politicians and commentators
never cite the possible victim,” Arnaud Leparmentier, a senior
politics correspondent for  Le Monde  newspaper, said in an
interview. “They don’t do it because they are so France-
centered that they can’t even think of a modest, black, maid
victim.”  ‘Libertine Habits’  Thalia Breton, a spokeswoman for  “Dare Feminism,”  another
feminist association, said sexist remarks in the blogosphere
have “minimized” the gravity of the case.  “In France there is a tradition of libertine habits and
respect of one’s private life, but rape is a crime,” she said.  “Dare Feminism” published a statement yesterday on its
website on the Strauss-Kahn case. Breton said she received
several e-mails that noted the ”unease” some felt with the
silence surrounding the maid.  Breton says there are 75,000 rape cases every year in
France and that with “a real taboo surrounding rape in this
country,” only 10 percent of those women file complaints.  Following criticism from feminist groups, the tone of the
case’s coverage in France is beginning to change.  French Environment Minister Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet told
 Le Figaro ’s website yesterday that “when we talk about this
case, we must mention that there is an alleged victim.” In a
May 16 interview on  Canal Plus  television, she had said that
“France’s reputation” was “a forgotten victim.”  Socialists’ Dilemma  Socialist Party First Secretary  Martine Aubry  called for
“respect” for the victim, and Green Party chief Cecile Duflot
called for “justice for the young woman” and “justice for
Strauss-Kahn who has the presumption of innocence,”  Agence
France-Presse  reported yesterday.  The afternoon newspaper Le Monde dated May 19 showed the
quandary confronting Strauss-Kahn’s allies with an article
headlined: “The Socialist Party No Longer Knows Which Victim to
Defend.”  Television journalist David Pujadas opened last night’s
much-watched 8 p.m.  France 2 news show  by saying, “Strauss-Kahn
spent his first night in jail. He is silenced. Meanwhile, there
is a victim, a young mother of 32.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 Hfouquet1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  