-- 
Stronger Euro May Signal Market Sees Greek Exit, Hambros Says

-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 
2011-05-18T14:52:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/stronger-euro-may-signal-market-sees-greek-exit-hambros-says.html
The strengthening euro this year may
signal investors already expect  Greece  to leave the currency
group, according to the investment chief of the U.K. private
banking arm of France’s  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA.  The euro has gained 6.6 percent against the dollar since
Jan. 3, making it the best performer among major currencies,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At the same time, the
situation remains “dismal” for peripheral members such as
Greece and Ireland, said  Andrew Popper , chief investment officer
of  SGPB Hambros .  “Things are not getting better in the euro zone but the
euro is getting stronger, so it’s a mystery but perhaps the
market expects countries like Greece to leave,” Popper said in
a presentation at the firm’s Edinburgh office. “The  euro zone 
is still the main risk we continue to face. It’s the only one
that raises serious doubt about what happens in the market.”  European Central Bank officials ruled out a Greek debt
restructuring, with executive board member  Juergen Stark  saying
today it would be a “catastrophe.” The position is at odds
with European politicians who have mooted the idea of extending
the debt-repayment schedule as Greece struggles with the terms
of last year’s 110 billion-euro ($156 billion) bailout.  Greek 10-year government bonds yielded 15.80 percent today,
1,271 basis points, or 12.71 percentage points, more than German
bunds of a similar maturity. That so-called spread compares with
728 basis points for Ireland, which agreed a bailout in
November, and 606 basis points for  Portugal , which inked a 78
billion-euro rescue package this week.  ‘Risk of Contagion’  “It’s nearly certain” that the maturity of Greece’s debt
will be lengthened and there’s a “strong possibility” of
bondholders taking a loss and a “risk of contagion” to
Ireland, according to Popper, who will step down this year.  Greece may benefit in the short term from leaving the euro,
even if that means remaining locked out of the international
 bond market  for a decade like  Argentina  previously, he said.
There’s less than a 50 percent probability that will happen and
is an “extreme case scenario,” he said.  “The Greek people will be better off if Greece leaves the
euro” because they can avoid harsh austerity measures, Popper
said. “It’s better leaving the euro than never having the
chance to recover because of their over-valued currency.”  Popper is responsible for about 4 billion pounds (6.4
billion) of investments. SGPB Hambros remains “relatively
positive” on stock markets, preferring U.S. and  Germany  to
emerging markets, where they have reduced exposure, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  