-- 
Swiss Stocks Advance; Syngenta, Givaudan, Schmolz & Bickenbach Shares Rise

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-05-18T15:50:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/swiss-stocks-rise-syngenta-ubs-bucher-shares-climb-in-zurich.html
Swiss stocks climbed, rebounding from
yesterday’s biggest drop in a month, as chemicals and basic-
materials companies advanced.  Syngenta AG (SYNN) , the Basel, Switzerland-based pesticides maker,
added 1 percent. Schmolz & Bickenbach AG, a steel producer,
surged 6.3 percent, the largest gain this year.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies advanced 0.6 percent to 6,535.24 at the 5:30
p.m. close in Zurich. The gauge has rallied 8.5 percent since
March 16 as company earnings exceeded estimates and the U.S.
central reserve pledged to keep  interest rates  low. The broader
Swiss Performance Index also increased 0.6 percent today.  “We still think markets will go up,” said Thomas Haerter,
chief strategist at Swisscanto Asset Management AG in Zurich,
which manages about $14 billion in equities. “It takes a lot
for the economy not to grow when interest rates are so low. At
the end of the month we’ll buy more equities.”  Syngenta gained 1 percent to 290.4 Swiss francs after
introducing a new seed treatment fungicide based on the active
ingredient sedaxane.  Givaudan SA (GIVN) , a maker of flavors and fragrances, increased
1.1 percent to 930 francs. The stock has still fallen 11 percent
since its high last year on Dec. 8.  Schmolz & Bickenbach advanced 6.3 percent to 11 francs
after three days of losses.  Bucher Industries AG (BUCN)  rose 0.8 percent to 207.6 francs. The
agricultural machinery maker said its Kuhn Group unit has a
licensing and manufacturing agreement with Deere & Co. to
cooperate on large square balers.  “The strategic cooperation with the world’s leading farm
equipment producer underpins Kuhn’s product and manufacturing
strengths in farming,” Fabian Haecki, an analyst at Vontobel
Holding AG, wrote in a note to clients today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 