-- 
Synta’s Cancer Drug May Help Patients When Other Medicines Fail

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-05-18T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/synta-s-cancer-drug-may-help-patients-when-other-medicines-fail.html
Synta Pharmaceuticals Corp. (SNTA) , a
Massachusetts drug developer with no marketed products, showed
its cancer therapy ganetespib helped some patients with lung and
stomach tumors without causing serious side effects in studies.  Ganetespib helped stabilize disease in patients with  lung
cancer  and gastrointestinal stromal tumors, or GIST, who tested
positive for certain gene mutations and weren’t helped by other
therapies, according to two trials. The studies, from the second
of three stages of tests needed for regulatory approval, will be
presented at the  American Society of Clinical Oncology  meeting,
which starts June 3 in Chicago.  Lung cancer patients with mutations called EGFR and KRAS
benefited from the medicine in a study of 73 people, the data
showed. In the GIST trial, 12 out of 23 patients saw their
disease stabilize, with the data showing that patients with
certain gene mutations responded better than others.  “Phase II data at ASCO could help investors more
accurately assess the potential for ganetespib,”  Jason Kantor ,
an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in  San Francisco , wrote in a
May 5 research note. The Lexington-based company expects to seek
a partner for ganetespib or another drug in development, with at
least one deal anticipated this year, Kantor wrote.  An estimated 222,520 people in the U.S. were diagnosed with
lung cancer in 2010, according to the  National Cancer Institute .
Non-small cell is the most common form of the disease. There are
an estimated 3,300 to 6,000 new cases of GIST each year in the
U.S., the  Institute  said.  Synta fell 4 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $5.96 at
4:30 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The
shares have lost 2.6 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 