-- 
U.K. April Unemployment Claims Rise

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-05-18T08:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/u-k-unemployment-claims-unexpectedly-rise-by-the-most-since-january-2010.html
U.K. unemployment claims rose in
April at the fastest pace since January 2010, underlining the
fragility of the economic recovery as government spending cuts
and accelerating inflation sap  consumer confidence .  Jobless benefit claims increased by 12,400 from March to
1.47 million, the Office for National Statistics said today in
London. The median forecast of 24 economists in a Bloomberg News
Survey was for no change. Unemployment measured by International
Labour Organization methods fell by 36,000 to 2.46 million
people in the quarter through March from the previous quarter.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  is relying on private
companies to create jobs as his coalition government eliminates
more than 300,000 public-sector posts to tackle the  budget
deficit . The economy stagnated in the six months through March
and Bank of  England  Governor  Mervyn King  this week said activity
remains weak.  “We suspect that likely below-trend growth will mean that
the private sector will be unable to fully compensate for the
increasing job losses in the public sector that will
result from the fiscal squeeze that is now really kicking in,”
 Howard Archer , an economist at IHS Global Insight in London,
said before the announcement.  The statistics office said the increase in the claimant
count was partly driven by rule changes that shift mainly women
from lone-parent benefits onto the unemployment roll.  Comparisons  The U.K. unemployment rate based on ILO standards was at
7.7 percent in the three months through March, down from 7.9
percent in the quarter through December. That compares with 9.9
percent in the euro region, 9 percent in the U.S. and 4.6
percent in  Japan , the statistics office said.  The increase in the number of people claiming jobless
benefits last month put the claimant-count rate at 4.6 percent,
the first increase since September 2009. Claims rose by 6,400 in
March instead of the 700 increase initially reported.  Today’s figures are likely to fuel the political debate
over the pace of deficit reduction after the German and French
economies grew faster than the U.K. in the first quarter.  The  Bank of England  last week cut its growth forecast for
the U.K. this year as King warned that pressure on incomes from
government spending cuts and soaring inflation will hit the
economy hard.  The central bank nevertheless signalled that it may need to
raise the key interest rate from a record low to control
inflation, which jumped to 2 1/2-year-high of 4.5 percent in
April and is forecast to reach 5 percent in coming months.  Today’s report showed that pay growth accelerated to 2.3
percent in the quarter through March from 2.1 percent in the
period through February. Pay growth excluding bonuses slowed to
2.1 percent from 2.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  