-- 
U.K. to Soften Impact of Carbon Cuts on Industry by End of 2011

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-05-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/u-k-to-cut-co2-emissions-in-half-by-mid-2020s-most-in-industrial-world.html
The U.K. government plans to announce
measures to reduce the cost on industry of complying with
pollution-reduction rules and may purchase credits overseas to
meet its carbon emissions targets.  Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne , acknowledging his goals to
reduce carbon dioxide emissions were “ambitious,” said he’d
detail by by the end of this year proposals to soften the blow
on energy-intensive industries. He said the intention is to
halve  greenhouse gases  from 1990 levels by 2027 through domestic
efforts, while declining to rule out using CO2 offset credits.  “Our ambition is to effect the transformation of our
economy into a new low-carbon model,” Greg Barker, a minister
in the energy department, said in an interview last night after
Huhne’s statement to Parliament in London. “This will give
investors the certainty they need to invest in clean energy and
will put Britain at the cutting edge of the new global
industrial transformation.”  Britain aims to limit CO2 emissions to 1,950 million tons
for the five years from 2023 through 2027 from 1990, a step
beyond the European Union’s promise for a 20 percent reduction
by 2020. The decision set Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
government on a collision course with manufacturers that say the
limits will hurt the economy.  ‘Radical Step’  “The scale of the engineering deployment required to
reduce emissions on this scale, in terms of energy, transport
and other engineered infrastructure, is unprecedented and has
never been seen in any industrialized nation before,” said Tim Fox, head of energy at the Institution of Mechanical Engineers.
“There needs to be a radical step change to make these
ambitions a reality.”  Barker said a panel made up of officials at the business
and energy departments will consult with companies to allay
their concerns about the targets. He declined to name measures
under consideration, saying he didn’t want to preempt the
group’s findings.  “We’ll be talking to business very closely and making sure
that their concerns are heard and that the issues that they’re
facing are properly addressed,” Barker said. “We don’t want to
see steelmakers, ceramic manufacturers, the aluminum industry
and other manufacturers simply going offshore to less green
economies and displacing carbon elsewhere.”  Nuclear and Smokestacks  Cameron plans to replace a generation of aging nuclear
 power plants  with new reactors and expanding renewable energy
forms to meet the goals. He’s also providing incentives to spur
offshore wind power, renewable heat tapped from underground
sources and plants that siphon off CO2 from factory smokestacks
and store the emissions underground.  “There is a risk that moving too far ahead of the pack
could leave energy- and carbon-intensive industry in the U.K. at
a disadvantage," said Richard Gledhill, global head of climate
change at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. ‘‘Making the targets
conditional on comparable efforts by other EU member states will
address some of industry’s concerns."  Huhne said the ‘‘ambitious but achievable’’ targets will be
reviewed in 2014 to make sure they are in line with those of
fellow EU members. He declined to rule out buying international
carbon credits to offset part of the emission cuts, a key
recommendation made by the government adviser, the Committee on
 Climate Change .  ‘Enormous Uncertainties’  ‘‘We intend to meet all of our reductions from our domestic
activity,’’ Huhne told lawmakers in Parliament last night. ‘‘It
would not be sensible given the enormous uncertainties of making
projections in advance for us to rule out using offsets. The
reality is we’re dealing with a period that is very far off.
It’s sensible we retain a measure of flexibility.’’  The opposition  Labour Party ’s spokeswoman on energy and
climate change, Meg Hillier, said she welcomed the announcement
and that there’s a consensus across parties about the scale of
the cuts. Green Party leader Caroline Lucas also welcomed the
carbon budget, while saying the deal is ‘‘seriously flawed”
because of the decision not to rule out offsets.  “Allowing the use of trading mechanisms such as offsetting
essentially means outsourcing our emission reduction
responsibilities to other countries, thereby weakening the drive
to achieve more green technologies and industries, with all the
jobs those can bring, here in the U.K.,” Lucas said.  British Law  Britain was the first country to enshrine in law
commitments to cut pollution by 2050. The cuts will come as the
Conservative-led coalition is paring state-run services to
eliminate a  budget deficit  by 2015, the deadline for the next
election.  “This is a bad decision for manufacturing,” Terry Scuoler, chief executive of EEF, the Manufacturers’ Association,
said in an e-mailed statement. “The government must move
quickly to address the competitiveness concerns faced across
manufacturing as well as energy-intensive industries.”  The Climate Change Act that took effect in 2008 requires
the nation to cut its fossil-fuel emissions 34 percent from 1990
levels by 2020 and 80 percent by the middle of this century.  Yesterday’s carbon budget -- which translates to 390
million tons a year during the mid-2020s, follows earlier
reductions set for the years 2008-2012, 2013-2017 and 2018-2022.
All are measured against the 780 million tons of greenhouse gas
pollution the U.K. emitted in 1990, the base year for the
emissions-limiting  Kyoto Protocol Treaty .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  