-- 
U.K. Consumer Confidence Falls as Economic Concerns Damp Spending Plans

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-05-18T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/u-k-consumer-confidence-falls-on-mounting-economic-concerns.html
U.K. consumer confidence fell in
April as Britons grew more pessimistic about the outlook for the
economy and spending,  Nationwide Building Society  said.  An index of sentiment slipped to 43 from a revised 45 in
March, when it rebounded from a record low, the customer-owned
lender said in an e-mailed report today. A gauge of whether now
is a good time to make major purchases dropped 5 points to 62.  U.K. unemployment claims rose at their fastest rate since
January 2010 last month, underlining the fragility of the
economic recovery as government spending cuts and quickening
inflation sap household confidence. The economy stagnated in the
six months through March and Bank of England officials yesterday
said an interest-rate increase now could damp  consumer spending .  “Consumers are still feeling downbeat about the current
situation and there is little to suggest that they expect things
to improve much over the coming months,”  Robert Gardner , chief
economist at Swindon, England-based Nationwide, said in the
report. “It now seems fairly safe to say that the uptick we saw
in March was not the beginning of any sustained resurgence.”  A gauge of consumers’ future expectations for the economy
over the next six months fell 2 points to 58 and an index of
their view of the present situation dropped 2 points to 19. The
percentage of the 1,002 people questioned for the survey who
said this is a good time to make a major purchase such as a car
or a home fell to 20 percent in April from 23 percent.  Inflation Risk  The  Bank of England  held its key interest rate at a record
low on May 5 to aid the economy’s recovery. Policy makers have
forecast that inflation may accelerate to 5 percent in the
coming months and said that risks to growth are “skewed to the
downside.”  “Inflation is roughly double annual earnings growth,
meaning that consumers still lack the spending power to help
drive the economy forward,” Gardner said. If the Bank of
England’s forecasts of faster inflation and weaker growth are
correct, confidence may come under further pressure, he said.  Nationwide’s April confidence survey also showed that
consumers became more pessimistic about the housing market last
month. They expect the value of their home to fall by 1.1
percent over the next six months, compared with a prediction of
0.9 percent in March.  TNS-RI carried out the survey for Nationwide between March
21 and April 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  