-- 
U.S. Reluctance to Push UN Condemnation of Syria Delays Vote

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-05-18T19:50:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/u-s-reluctance-to-push-un-condemnation-of-syria-delays-vote.html
The Obama administration’s reluctance
to push for a vote in the  United Nations   Security Council  is
holding up British and French circulation of a resolution to
condemn Syrian government attacks on protesters, envoys said.  The U.S. is concerned that failure to win the nine votes
needed for adoption of a resolution, or a Russian veto, would
make the violence in Syria worse, according to the diplomats,
who spoke on condition of not being identified because the talks
have been private. The U.S. moved ahead on another diplomatic
measure, announcing sanctions against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and six other top regime officials in response to the
government crackdown.  Britain and  France  believe that while they have the votes
for the resolution, and are willing to risk a Russian veto,
strong U.S. backing is needed to ensure the best outcome, the
diplomats said. Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  stopped short
today of threatening a veto, saying only that his government
won’t support a  Security Council  resolution on Syria.  Syria intensified its crackdown on anti-government
protesters today with a coordinated attack on several suburbs of
the capital, Damascus, and on a city in the southern governorate
of Daraa, where the unrest began two months ago.  Security forces have killed at least 900 people since mid-
March, according to Mahmoud Merhi of the Arab Organization for
Human Rights and Ammar Qurabi, head of Syria’s National
Organization for Human Rights.  U.S. Freezes Assets  The Syrian uprising drew initial pledges of reform from
Assad, who lifted an emergency law in place since 1963 and named
a new government. He hasn’t repeated the assurances in recent
weeks as authorities have stepped up their assaults.  The U.S. moved unilaterally today to freeze the assets of
Assad and others, and the European Union will impose its own
sanctions next week, according to foreign-policy chief  Catherine Ashton .  “The U.S. has strongly and consistently condemned the
actions of the Syrian regime and their violent crackdown against
their people,” Mark Kornblau, spokesman for the U.S. mission to
the UN said. “We have led a coalition to successfully block
Syria from joining the Human Rights Council, we have placed
unilateral sanctions on Syria and today on Assad.”  Britain and France faced a similar political dynamic in
advance of the March 17 vote to impose a no-fly zone over Libya
and take military action to protect civilians there. Action in
the Security Council was delayed until President Barack Obama
was persuaded to fully support the resolution.  Vote Counting  Brazil ,  China ,  Germany ,  India  and  Russia  abstained from the
otherwise unanimous adoption of that measure. Russian Ambassador
Vitaly Churkin has said the situation in Syria is “completely
different” than in Libya.  France’s Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  told parliament
yesterday that there were at least nine votes in the Security
Council to condemn the government attacks on protesters, demand
an end to the violence in Syria and ask UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon to report on the response. Refusal to halt the attacks
could then lead to imposition of sanctions, the sequence that
was followed on Libya.  “I don’t see that there are the votes there presently,”
U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice said on May 13.  Britain’s Foreign Secretary  William Hague  initiated the
talks two weeks ago by instructing his government’s mission to
the UN to seek Security Council action.  The Security Council “cannot stay silent,” Britain’s
Ambassador Mark Lyall Grant said on May 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  