-- 
U.S. Urges Yemeni President Saleh to Sign Gulf Council Deal

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u   N a s r   a n d   B o b   D r u m m o n d
-- 
2011-05-18T18:01:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/u-s-urges-yemeni-president-saleh-to-sign-gulf-council-deal-1-.html
The U.S. stepped up pressure on
Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh to sign a Gulf Cooperation
Council proposal to begin a transition of power.  John Brennan , President  Barack Obama ’s top counterterrorism
adviser, called Saleh this morning to urge him “to sign and
implement the Gulf Cooperation Council-brokered agreement so
that Yemen is able to move forward immediately with its
political transition,” a White House statement said.  “This transfer of power represents the best path forward
for Yemen to become a more secure, unified, and prosperous
nation and for the Yemeni people to realize their aspirations
for peace and political reform,” the statement said.  Yemen, a partner in U.S. efforts to root out al-Qaeda and
its sympathizers in the region, is one of the countries in the
Middle East and North Africa that have been shaken by anti-
government protests. The Obama administration has condemned the
government’s use of violence against demonstrators.  The head of the Gulf council, Abdulatif al-Zayani, left
Yemen today without securing the approval of Yemeni parties on
the proposal to end the standoff, the state-run Saba news agency
said.  Earlier, a representative of the opposition, Mohammed al-
Mutawakkil, said Yemen’s ruling and opposition parties were
close to signing the deal, which would have Saleh stepping down
within 30 days. The accord guarantees Saleh and his family
immunity from prosecution, he said.  Resolving Standoff  The agreement, brokered by members of the six-nation Gulf
Cooperation Council, aims to end weeks of anti-government
protests that began in January. At least 100 people have died in
clashes with government security forces, according to the Arabic
Sisters Forum for Human Rights.  Saleh would be the third Middle Eastern leader forced from
office by protest movements this year, after  Egypt ’s  Hosni Mubarak  and  Tunisia ’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali.  GCC officials are seeking to avert an escalation of the
violence in Yemen or a deadly military divide like the one in
 Libya . Rising social unrest also threatens to strengthen al-
Qaeda as it seeks to use Yemen, the poorest Arab nation, as a
base from which to destabilize neighboring  Saudi Arabia , the
world’s largest exporter of crude oil.  Obama tomorrow plans to offer a fresh blueprint for the
U.S.  role in the region following the wave of upheavals that
began in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Drummond in Washington at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  