-- 
U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for May 13 (Text)

-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 
2011-05-18T14:34:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-may-13-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged 14.3 million barrels per
day during the week ending May 13, 239 thousand barrels per day
above the previous week’s average. Refineries operated at 83.2
percent of their operable capacity last week. Gasoline
production increased last week, averaging 9.1 million barrels
per day. Distillate fuel production decreased last week,
averaging 4.0 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged just under 8.6 million barrels
per day last week, down by 394 thousand barrels per day from the
previous week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have
averaged 8.9 million barrels per day, 868 thousand barrels per
day below the same four-week period last year. Total motor
gasoline imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline
blending components) last week averaged 862 thousand barrels per
day. Distillate fuel imports averaged 112 thousand barrels per
day last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) remained unchanged from the
previous week. At 370.3 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are above the upper limit of the average range for
this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories increased by
0.1 million barrels last week and are in the lower limit of the
average range. Finished gasoline inventories decreased while
blending components inventories increased last week. Distillate
fuel inventories decreased by 1.2 million barrels last week and
are in the upper limit of the average range for this time of
year. Propane/propylene inventories increased by 1.7 million
barrels last week and are below the lower limit of the average
range. Total commercial petroleum inventories decreased by 0.1
million barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period has
averaged about 18.7 million barrels per day, down by 2.9 percent
compared to the similar period last year. Over the last four
weeks, motor gasoline product supplied has averaged nearly 9.0
million barrels per day, down by 2.3 percent from the same
period last year. Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged
about 3.8 million barrels per day over the last four weeks, down
by 2.9 percent from the same period last year. Jet fuel product
supplied is 2.1 percent higher over the last four weeks compared
to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  