-- 
Home Purchases in U.S. by Foreign-Born Buyers Increase 24%, Realtors Say

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-05-18T17:01:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/u-s-home-purchases-by-internationals-rose-24-in-past-year-as-prices-fell.html
Foreign-born buyers took advantage of
falling property prices to purchase $82 billion of U.S. homes
over the past year, a 24 percent increase, according to a report
by the National Association of Realtors.  Canada was the top country of origin over the 12 months
ended in March, accounting for 23 percent of sales to
foreigners, the Chicago-based group said today in an annual
study, based on a survey of members. China ranked second at 9
percent, followed by  Mexico , the U.K. and  India , with 7 percent
each. Brazil and Argentina, which are counted together,
increased to 5 percent from 2 percent a year earlier.  “In recent years we have seen more and more foreign buyers
coming here to take advantage of low prices and plentiful
inventory,” Ron Phipps, president of the Realtors association
and president of Phipps Realty in Warwick, Rhode Island, said in
a statement today.  Prices of resold U.S. homes were down 33 percent in
February from their July 2006 peak, according to the S&P/Case-
Shiller index of  home prices  in 20 U.S. cities. Unemployment at
9 percent and foreclosed properties selling at a discount are
hurting values. In the first quarter, prices fell 8.2 percent
from a year earlier, Zillow Inc. said.  Foreign buyers accounted for almost 8 percent of $1.07
trillion in housing sales during the 12 months ended in March,
the Realtors group said. About half of the sales were to
immigrants who moved to the U.S. within the past two years and
people with visas, whose purchases rose to $41 billion from $25
billion. International investors accounted for the other half.  Rental Opportunities  U.S. homes are typically less expensive than comparable
properties in other countries, according to the Realtors
association. Properties in the U.S. also are seen as a secure
investment and offer both rental opportunities and the potential
for long-term appreciation, the group said.  Florida ,  California ,  Texas  and  Arizona  accounted for 58
percent of sales to foreign buyers. About 62 percent of
foreigners paid completely with cash instead of using a
mortgage, according to the survey. In March, 35 percent of all
U.S. home sales were totally in cash, the group said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  