-- 
U.S. Stock Futures Advance on Dell Earnings, Commodity Rebound

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-05-18T13:05:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/u-s-stock-futures-gain-as-dell-rallies-after-beating-estimates.html
U.S. stock futures gained, signaling
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index may snap a three-day slump,
after companies including  Dell Inc. (DELL)  posted higher- than-
estimated earnings and commodities rebounded.  Dell, the world’s second-largest computer maker, climbed
6.9 percent as corporate technology spending helped the company
withstand a slump in consumer demand.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper &
Gold Inc. (FCX)  and  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  rose at least 0.6 percent as
commodities climbed for the first day in three on prospects for
increased demand from emerging markets.  Staples Inc. (SPLS)  tumbled 15
percent after the office-supply retailer forecast annual
earnings that fell short of analysts’ projections.  S&P 500 futures expiring in June advanced 0.2 percent to
1,327.7 at 9:02 a.m. in New York. The benchmark gauge for
American equities lost 1.5 percent over the last three days. Dow
Jones Industrial Average futures rose 22 points, or 0.2 percent,
to 12,459 today. The MSCI All-Country World Index of shares in
45 nations gained 0.4 percent to 342.13.  “The market’s relieved that Dell didn’t confirm Hewlett-
Packard’s weaker forecast from yesterday,” said Radu Margoses,
senior broker at Newedge Group in Zurich. “It’s not too
surprising if economic reports disappoint a bit as we saw a
similar soft patch around this time last year.”  The S&P 500 yesterday fell to a one-month low as a reduced
sales forecast at Hewlett-Packard Co. and an unexpected decline
in housing starts damped optimism about the economic recovery.
The measure slid 2.5 percent through yesterday since climbing to
an almost three-year high on April 29.  Earnings Beat Estimates  Still, the benchmark gauge advanced 5.7 percent in 2011
through yesterday amid government stimulus measures and higher-
than-estimated corporate earnings. More than two thirds of the
446 companies that reported results since April 11 topped the
average analyst earnings projection, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said budget
deficits threaten to erode the nation’s economy and security and
can’t be reduced with “magical thinking.” Geithner also said
 Europe  has the capability to handle the region’s debt crisis.  “They just have to do it,” he said on a panel in New York
after a screening of the HBO film “Too Big to Fail” yesterday.  European Central Bank officials ruled out a Greek debt
restructuring, clashing with political leaders over a solution
to the sovereign financial crisis.  ‘Catastrophe’  “A Greek debt restructuring is not the appropriate way
forward -- it would create a catastrophe” because it would
damage the banking system, ECB Executive Board member Juergen Stark said today in Lagonissi,  Greece . Fellow board member
Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said in Milan that “a solution for reducing
debt but not paying for it will not work.”  Dell climbed 6.9 percent to $16.99. It’s the second
straight quarter that the company’s results outshined those of
rival  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  A slowdown in home-computer sales has
roiled industry leader Hewlett-Packard, which cut its annual
sales forecast yesterday. While Dell also saw its consumer
revenue drop, the company said it was able to squeeze more
profit out of each sale.  Some energy and raw-material producers rallied. The S&P
GSCI Index of 24 raw materials gained as much as 1.6 percent. It
fell 11 percent this month before today after touching the
highest level since 2008 on April 11.  Freeport, the world’s largest publicly traded copper
producer, advanced 0.7 percent to $47.18. Schlumberger gained
0.6 percent to $82.55.  Staples tumbled 15 percent to $16.78. The office-supply
retailer forecast 2011 earnings of $1.45 a share at most. On
average, the analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimated profit of
$1.53 a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  