-- 
U.S. Mortgage Applications Rose 7.8% Last Week on Refinancing

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-05-18T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/u-s-mortgage-applications-rose-7-8-last-week-on-refinancing.html
Mortgage applications in the U.S.
increased last week to the highest level since December as
cheaper borrowing costs made refinancing more attractive.  The  Mortgage Bankers Association ’s index of loan
applications rose 7.8 percent in the week ended May 13. The
group’s refinancing measure advanced 13 percent, while the
purchase gauge fell 3.2 percent.  Mortgage rates  at the lowest levels in almost six months
mean homeowners can refinance current loans to lower the cost of
monthly payments. At the same time, declining property values
indicate potential buyers may wait to see if  home prices  fall
further before entering the market.  “The housing market is going to bounce around a little
bit,”  Paul Dales , senior U.S. economist at  Capital Economics  in
Toronto, said before the report. “Both housing starts and home
sales are going to remain at pretty weak levels by historical
standards.”  The average rate on a 30-year fixed loan decreased last
week to 4.60 percent, the lowest since the end of November, from
4.67 percent, the mortgage bankers group said. Borrowing costs
reached 4.21 percent in October, a record-low dating back to
when the group’s records began in 1990.  The average rate on a 15-year fixed mortgage dropped to
3.75 percent from 3.81 percent, the report showed.  More Refinancing  The share of applicants seeking to refinance a loan rose to
66.7 percent last week from 63.1 percent the prior week.  Other reports indicate housing has not yet joined areas of
the economy that are recovering. Work began on 523,000 houses at
an annual pace in April, down 11 percent from the prior month
and less than the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, figures from the Commerce Department showed
yesterday. Building permits, a proxy for future construction,
fell 4 percent to a 551,000 pace.  Confidence among homebuilders was little changed in May,
restrained by a drop in the sales outlook, a report from the
 National Association of Home Builders /Wells Fargo showed this
week. The group’s sentiment index held at 16 for a second month.
Figures less than 50 mean more respondents view conditions as
poor.  Toll Brothers Inc. Chief Executive Officer Douglas Yearley
Jr. last week said the April through June home selling season,
typically the busiest of the year, has been “disappointing”
and that “people are still scared.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  