-- 
U.S. Consumer Bureau Releases Simpler Mortgage ‘Shopping’ Forms for Tests

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-05-18T20:13:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/u-s-consumer-bureau-releases-simplified-two-page-mortgage-form-for-trial.html
Americans applying for a mortgage
would get a simplified, two-page “shopping sheet” from lenders
under a proposal from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  The agency today released  two prototypes  for the form,
which include information such as  interest rates , monthly
payments and closing costs in bold type and an uncluttered
format. The forms provide key figures on the first page, while
delving into more detail on the second.  “With a clear, simple form, consumers will be in a better
position to answer two basic questions: Can I afford this
mortgage and can I get a better deal somewhere else?”  Elizabeth Warren , the White House and Treasury adviser in charge of
setting up the bureau, said in an e-mailed statement.  The new agency may propose regulations for mortgage
disclosure forms before July 21, 2012, said a bureau official
who spoke on condition of anonymity because that is the agency’s
media policy. That date would be one year after the bureau is to
officially begin operations, a timetable set by last year’s
Dodd-Frank financial-regulation overhaul.  The form would replace the overlapping paperwork mandated
by the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and the Truth In
Lending Act, Warren told reporters in a conference call. Those
two forms total five pages, she pointed out.  “It’s shorter -- a lot shorter,” said Ron Haynie, head of
ICBA Mortgage, a part of the trade group  Independent Community
Bankers of America . “From that standpoint, it’s an improvement
over the old forms.”  Community Banks  Warren has touted the simplified forms as a means to help
community banks, which are frequently smaller, closely held
firms, to compete against the giants in the field, such as  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  because borrowers could
more easily make bank-to-bank fee comparisons.  The bureau will test the form with consumers, lenders and
brokers, with the initial rounds including Spanish-language
versions, according to the e-mailed statement. The tests will be
held in  Albuquerque ,  New Mexico ; Birmingham,  Alabama ;
Springfield,  Massachusetts ;  Chicago ; Baltimore; and  Los Angeles .  “We are going to listen to comments, adjust and retest
until, with lots of help from the public, from industry, we
believe we have this right,” Warren told reporters on the call.  After the testing process concludes in September, the
bureau will propose regulations that include a final version of
the form. At that point, the bureau would address issues such as
when the consumer would get the forms, which is important for
comparison shopping, the bureau official said.  No Obligation  Norma Garcia, senior staff attorney for  Consumers Union ,
the group that publishes Consumer Reports magazine, said that
the prototypes include a clear statement that the borrower has
no obligation to choose the loan outlined on the form.  “This statement will help encourage consumers to shop and
compare products, which will have the added benefit of
increasing competition among lenders for borrowers’ business,”
Garcia said in an e-mailed statement.  Battle lines already have been forming around the bureau’s
efforts to simplify disclosure. Lenders may face billions of
dollars in costs if the type and timing of documentation are
changed and those costs could be passed on to consumers,
according to David Stevens, the former Federal Housing
Administration Commissioner who leads the  Mortgage Bankers
Association .  “We are not against this, but we want to study the
forms,” Stevens said in an interview before the prototypes were
released.  Borrower Lawsuits  Industry groups say the current paperwork burden in
mortgage lending stems in part from the need to provide
disclaimers designed to protect them against borrower lawsuits.
The groups say that since simpler documentation could be costly
to implement and could lead to limits on innovation and variety
in lending, a reasonable exchange would be an explicit safeguard
against such lawsuits.  Consumer groups have resisted the idea of a so-called safe
harbor for lenders.  “My concern is that we would lose the causes of action
that we use to protect people who are being foreclosed on,” Ira Rheingold, executive director of the National Association of
Consumer Advocates, said in an interview. “The tradeoff is if
home buyers get something that is binding and usable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 