-- 
Mumbai Attack Plot Jury Chosen in Terror Trial of Chicago Businessman Rana

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-05-18T20:37:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/mumbai-attack-plot-jury-chosen-in-terror-trial-of-chicago-businessman-rana.html
Twelve jurors and six substitutes
were selected for the trial of a  Chicago  businessman accused of
helping to plan the 2008 Mumbai terrorist attacks that killed
164 people including six Americans.  Tahawwur Rana, 50, is charged with three counts of giving
material support to terrorists and faces a possible life
sentence if convicted. The Pakistani native and Canadian citizen
has pleaded not guilty.  The panel of eight women and four men, plus four male and
two female understudies, was sworn in today before U.S. District
Judge Harry D. Leinenweber, capping a three-day selection
process. The court ordered that identities not be disclosed
publicly for their safety.  “You are not to discuss this case among yourselves until
all the evidence is in,” Leinenweber admonished the jurors. He
also told them not to discuss it with friends and family or do
independent research on the Internet.  Opening statements are scheduled for May 23.  Rana, who runs an immigration services business with
offices in Chicago,  New York  and Toronto, is accused of helping
David Coleman Headley travel to Mumbai to scout potential
targets and to perform similar reconnaissance for a never-
executed plot to attack a Danish newspaper that published
caricatures of the Islamic prophet Muhammad in 2005.  ‘Major Iqbal’  He’s also accused of aiding Lashkar-e-Taiba, a Pakistani
group designated a terrorist organization by the U.S. in 2001,
by relaying messages to Headley from a man identified only as
“Major Iqbal,” according to a revised indictment returned last
month.  Headley, 50, is the son of an American mother and Pakistani
father. Born Daood Gilani, prosecutors say, he changed his name
in 2006 to more easily present himself as American while abroad.
He pleaded guilty to 12 terrorism-related criminal counts last
year and will testify at the trial if prosecutors ask, his
lawyer, John Theis, said last week.  “Mr. Rana’s only crime was to be friends with David
Headley,” defense lawyer Charlie Swift told reporters after
today’s court proceedings. He said his client had done nothing
to actively support the twin terror plots.  Rana and Headley attended school together as children and
remained friends, Swift said.  ‘Betrayed’  “David Headley betrayed that” and betrayed the U.S., he
added.  Swift, a Seattle attorney who is trying the case with
Chicago defense lawyer Patrick Blegen, will deliver the opening
statement for Rana.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Sarah E. Streicker will make the
opening statement for the prosecution.  Citing the perceived risk of reprisals for a guilty
verdict, Leinenweber in March ordered the jury empanelled
anonymously.  “After Sept. 11, 2011, residents of the U.S. have
heightened sensitivities and fears in regard to foreign
terrorism,” the judge said. “Jurors cannot face a situation in
which they deliberate in fear that their verdict may subject
them or their family to any form of retaliation.”  He later directed that the court furnish them with “any and
all necessary meals” for the duration of the trial.  The case is U.S. v. Kashmiri, 09-cr-00830, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago federal court
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  