-- 
U.K. April Unemployment Claims Rise Most Since January 2010

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-05-18T12:42:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/unemployment-claims-rise-most-since-january-2010-as-recovery-stays-fragile.html
U.K. unemployment claims rose in
April at the fastest pace since January 2010, underlining the
fragility of the recovery as government spending cuts and
accelerating inflation sap  consumer confidence .  Jobless benefit claims increased by 12,400 from March to
1.47 million, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in
 London . The median forecast of 24 economists in a Bloomberg News
Survey was for no change. Unemployment measured by International
Labour Organization methods fell 36,000 to 2.46 million people
in the quarter through March.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  is relying on private
companies to create jobs as his government eliminates more than
300,000 public-sector posts to tackle the  budget deficit . The
economy stagnated in the six months through March and Bank of
England policy makers warned today that an interest-rate
increase now could damp consumer spending.  “We think the  unemployment rate  will rise for the next 18
months,” said  Ross Walker , an economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London. “The growth we’re getting is not
particularly robust and you wouldn’t expect it to produce much
 job creation . In the medium term, there’s no need for an
aggressive rate rise by the Bank of England.”  The statistics office said the increase in the claimant
count was partly driven by rule changes mainly affecting women
that shifted recipients of lone-parent benefits onto the
unemployment roll. The number of women claiming Jobseeker’s
Allowance rose by 9,300 in April.  Political Debate  Today’s figures fueled the political debate over the pace
of deficit reduction after the German and French economies grew
faster than the U.K. in the first quarter.  Bank of England  policy makers voted 6-3 to keep rates on
hold this month, according to the minutes of the meeting
published today. The majority warned that tightening policy now
could “adversely affect consumer confidence, leading to an
exaggerated impact on both spending and firms’ perceptions of
their desired productive capacity.”  In Parliament today, Cameron pointed to ILO-based figures
for the first quarter as proof that the labor market is
recovering. On this measure, employment rose 118,000 from the
fourth quarter to 29.2 million, led by full-time jobs, and the
jobless rate fell to 7.7 percent from 7.9 percent. Unemployment
among 16-24-year-olds declined 30,000 to 935,000, a rate of 20
percent.  ‘Dinosaurland’  “Those are the facts of what’s really happening in the
real world rather than in Dinosaurland which he still
inhabits,” Cameron told opposition  Labour Party  lawmaker Dennis Skinner when challenged over the government’s welfare cuts.  The increase in the number of people claiming jobless
benefits last month put the claimant-count rate at 4.6 percent
compared with 4.5 percent in March. Claims rose by 6,400 in
March instead of the 700 increase initially reported.  Today’s figures suggest pay settlements aren’t being driven
higher by inflation, which accelerated to a 2 1/2-year of 4.5
percent in April and is set to reach 5 percent in coming months.  While overall wage growth accelerated to 2.3 percent in the
quarter through March from 2.1 percent in the period through
February, the pace excluding bonuses slowed to 2.1 percent from
2.2 percent.  “While May’s MPC minutes and the latest labor-market data
did little to swing the interest-rate debate in either
direction, the key message from the latter is that sharp falls
in real wages are likely to continue to weigh heavily on
 consumer spending ,”  Jonathan Loynes , chief European economist
at Capital Economics Ltd. in London, said in a note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  