-- 
Hungary Bank Group Says Most of Cabinet Mortgage Plan Acceptable

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-05-18T13:20:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/hungary-bank-group-says-most-of-cabinet-mortgage-plan-acceptable.html
The majority of the Hungarian
government’s proposals to protect mortgage holders are
acceptable to lenders and talks between the two sides continue,
the country’s  Banking Association  said today.  “We very much trust the talks will end in agreement,”
Janos Muller, chief adviser to the association, said by phone.  The government wants to protect foreign-currency borrowers
who are unable to make payments, while encouraging lending to
support the recovery from the country’s worst recession in 18
years.  Hungary , facing the risk of its  credit rating  being cut
to junk, is also seeking to avoid added budget spending.  Lenders rejected the latest draft of a government plan to
help borrowers who can’t meet payments on foreign-currency
mortgage loans,  Nepszabadsag  reported today, citing a Banking
Association decision. Muller declined to elaborate on the
content of the talks.  The draft plan also proposed temporarily maximizing the
Swiss franc exchange rate on non-performing household mortgage
loans at 160 forint per franc, compared with 190 forint reported
earlier, with the difference in costs accumulating in a separate
account that would have to be repaid over the maturity of the
original loan, Nepszabadsag said.  The government also proposed capping the exchange rate of
euro-denominated household mortgages at 250 per euro, Reuters
news service reported today, citing a letter from the  Economy
Ministry  to the Banking Association.  Revisions to an earlier plan propose extending a special
tax on banks, originally planned for three years through 2012,
by another two years, Nepszabadsag said. Banks also would be
required to keep bad loans on their books for more than five
years under the new plan, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  