-- 
Munich Re: Prostitutes Attended Rewards Party

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-05-18T22:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/munich-re-says-prostitutes-attended-reward-party.html
A  Munich Re  unit hosted about 20
prostitutes at a Budapest party to reward the insurer’s high-
performing agents, a spokesman said.  The incident in the summer of 2007 was a “clear
violation” of company policy, said Alexander Becker, a
spokesman for the Ergo Versicherungsgruppe subsidiary, in a
telephone interview yesterday. Senior management involved in
organizing the event are no longer employed at Ergo, he said.  Ergo hosted the party for about 100 guests at the historic
 Gellert  spa,  Handelsblatt  reported in a preview of an article to
be published today. Women wore color-coded armbands, the
newspaper said, citing unidentified guests, with red for
hostesses, yellow for those available for sexual favors and
white for women reserved for executives and top agents. After
each trip to beds set up near the thermal baths, a woman would
receive a stamp on her forearm, the paper reported.  Ergo and other insurers typically sell insurance products
such as life, car and health coverage through so-called tied
agents, independent brokers or other channels to customers. Such
incentive trips for especially successful salespeople
“definitely don’t usually proceed the way it’s described” in
the German newspaper’s report, Becker said. He declined to
comment on the details of the party.  Munich Re, the world’s biggest reinsurer, fully owns
Dusseldorf-based Ergo,  Germany ’s second-biggest primary insurer
after  Allianz SE . The Budapest party was hosted by an Ergo unit,
then known as Hamburg-Mannheimer Versicherungs-AG.  People responsible for the trip, including a Hamburg-
Mannheimer board member, left the company before the case was
known, spokeswoman Alexandra Klemme said in an e-mail. The unit
was rebranded Ergo under a strategy announced in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at  