-- 
United Continental to Retire Flight Numbers in 9/11 Attacks

-- B y   J u s t i n   B a c h m a n
-- 
2011-05-18T21:43:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/united-continental-to-retire-flight-numbers-from-9-11-attacks.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  will
permanently retire flight numbers 93 and 175, the designations
of the United flights hijacked in the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks, after they reappeared on a computer reservation system.  The numbers were loaded erroneously May 16 because of an
oversight and were removed today, Chicago-based United
Continental said. Neither number will be used again, according
to the airline, which was rebuked by unions representing pilots
and flight attendants over the reuse of the numbers.  “The flight numbers were inadvertently reinstated in our
system,” an airline spokesman, Rahsaan Johnson, said in an e-
mail. “We have already taken steps to remove them and apologize
for the error.”  Numbers 93 and 175 were assigned to Continental-operated
flights that were also going to carry United’s booking code,
according to  Airlineroute.net , which tracks schedule data.
United and Continental merged in October and will operate
separately until regulators grant them a single certificate.  United Flight 93 crashed in a Pennsylvania field on Sept.
11, 2001, as passengers tried to retake the cockpit from
hijackers who seized the  Boeing Co. (BA)  757 en route to  San
Francisco  from Newark,  New Jersey . Flight 175, a Boeing 767, was
crashed into the World Trade Center’s south tower on a flight to
 Los Angeles  from  Boston .  American Flights  Terrorists also crashed American Airlines Flight 11 into
the north tower of the World Trade Center and Flight 77 into the
Pentagon during the attacks. American parent  AMR Corp. (AMR)  doesn’t
use those flight numbers.  The attacks killed 25 flight attendants and 10 other
airline employees on the four planes, the  Association of Flight
Attendants  said.  “We will never forget the heroic actions of our friends
and colleagues or the pain of their loss,” Greg Davidowitch,
president of the AFA unit at United, said in a statement.  United’s chapter of the Air Line Pilots Association said
the planned reuse of the flight numbers showed “insensitivity
and unconscionable disrespect.”  “The thought of anyone among management at  United Airlines 
to even consider reinstating these two sacred flight numbers --
on the heels of Osama bin Laden’s death -- demonstrates a severe
disconnect from right and wrong,” Captain Wendy Morse, the ALPA
chapter chairman, said in a statement.  Almost 3,000 people died in the attacks orchestrated by bin
Laden, who was killed this month by U.S. special forces who
raided his hide-out in Abbottabad, Pakistan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Bachman in New York at 
 jbachman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  