-- 
Van Der Moolen Report, ECM Real Estate, Sazka AS: European Bankruptcy

-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 
2011-05-18T13:30:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/van-der-moolen-report-ecm-real-estate-sazka-as-european-bankruptcy.html
Van der Moolen Holding NV (MOO)  lacked
sufficient risk management and its governance had flaws in the
period leading up to the Dutch stockbroker’s bankruptcy in 2009,
according to an investigation ordered by the Enterprise Chamber
of the Amsterdam Appeals Court.  Managers didn’t seem in control of Van der Moolen’s
dividend-arbitrage activities, and attention to  capital
management  and external financing was limited, court-appointed
investigators Kees Scholtes and Sietze Hepkema said in a report
dated May 13 obtained by Bloomberg News.  The period under investigation ran from January 2005 to
September 2009, when the 117-year-old Dutch stockbroker was
declared bankrupt after posting three straight years of losses.
Dutch investor group VEB and insurer ASR Nederland NV asked the
Enterprise Chamber to investigate the firm’s management. They
now can ask the court to assert mismanagement, which may lead to
damage claims.  The firm operated without a chief executive officer or
management board after Richard den Drijver stepped down on July
16, 2009, leaving supervisory board members Peter Zwart and
Arjen Paardekoper temporarily in charge. Den Drijver acted as a
managing director and major shareholder rather than as CEO of a
listed company, the investigators said.  Scholtes and Hepkema “regret” that they didn’t get to
interview Den Drijver, they said. There were signs Den Drijver
didn’t accept critical comments from other executive board
members, illustrated partly by the departure of two existing
board members within a year after he took the helm, according to
the report.  The company canceled the acquisition of stakes in GSFS
Asset Management BV and Global Securities Arbitrage BV in March
2009, saying the moves “will not lead to the intended positive
impact on the shareholders’ value of Van der Moolen.”  Van der Moolen’s administrator Paul Schaink didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  ECM Real Estate Files for Insolvency, Seeks Debt Restructuring  ECM Real Estate Investments AG (ECM)  filed an insolvency petition
in the  Czech Republic  to give the Luxembourg-registered
developer in central  Europe  a chance to reorganize its business
and debt, the company  said  May 17 on its website.  Sazka Lottery Revenue Fell to $22 Million in April, CTK Says  Sazka AS’ revenue from the state lottery fell 47 percent to
380 million koruna ($22 million) in April from a year earlier,
 CTK  reported, citing a report from PricewaterhouseCoopers.  Income from the lottery amounted to 85 percent of Sazka’s
revenue in January, the newswire said.  The report was conducted for Sazka’s provisional creditors’
committee, the newswire added.  Sazka’s clients are cutting back on placing bets as the
bankrupt Czech lottery operator is struggling to pay overdue
winnings. The Prague municipal court initiated insolvency
proceedings against state-run Sazka on March 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Anthony Aarons in London at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  