-- 
Wheat Threatened Across Europe as Driest Weather in Decades Withers Crops

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-18T17:06:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/wheat-threatened-across-europe-as-driest-weather-in-decades-withers-crops.html
Europe ’s wheat crop, making up a
fifth of global output, is under threat in the U.K., France and
Germany from the driest growing conditions in at least 36
years.  France’s soft-wheat crop, the European Union’s largest,
will drop 12 percent, and German output will slide 7.2 percent,
local forecasters said today. Wheat jumped 4.5 percent to the
highest level since Feb. 14.  Smaller-than-expected harvests may boost wheat prices that
already rose 59 percent in a year after crops were hurt in the
last growing season by floods in  Canada  and drought in Russia.
This year, China is contending with drought while U.S. farmers
are facing dry weather in some areas and too much rain in
others. The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  is forecasting a
second consecutive annual decline in global stockpiles.  “Given the tight levels of stocks for grains and oilseeds
we need everything to go right,” Luke Chandler, global head of
agricultural-commodity research at Rabobank in  London , said in
a phone interview. “Downward revisions such as in Europe have
the potential to set us on another  bull market  over the
summer.”  French soft-wheat production will slide to 31.65 million
metric tons, the least in four years, from 35.7 million tons
last year, as drought slashes yields to the lowest in at least
16 years, Agritel, a Paris-based farm adviser, said today.  Germany’s Slump  Germany’s wheat crop, the second-largest in the EU, will
slump to 22.3 million tons from 24.1 million tons on the dry
conditions, Deutscher Raiffeisenverband e.V. said in an e-
mailed report today, reversing an April outlook for a 2.2
percent jump.  Soil moisture is now “critical” in the U.K.,  France ,
Germany, northern  Italy ,  Belgium  and the Netherlands after
parts of Western Europe had their driest March on record, the
EU’s Monitoring Agricultural Resources unit reported today.  “Rainfall is indispensable to ensure a proper grain
filling in the coming weeks, otherwise the current yield
forecasts will be sharply revised downward,” said the EU unit,
know as MARS.  MARS compared the precipitation deficit in April this year
against the 1975 to 2010 period and found last month ranked as
the driest in parts of the U.K., France and Italy.  Weather Forecast  Through to May 25, “dry conditions will persist for
Belgium, southern Germany, France as well as the U.K., with
negative impact on crop yields,” MARS said. “The majority of
Europe will experience a climatic water deficit of at least 30
percent higher than usual.”  Temperatures will be 4 degrees to 8 degrees Celsius above
normal seasonal values in countries in northern Europe
including Poland, Germany and France, MARS said.  In  China , the worst winter drought on record in the
country’s central Hubei province is persisting, cutting the
region’s output of wheat and rapeseed and delaying planting of
spring grain and cotton crops, the local Department of Water
Resources said.  Some wheat farmers in the southern U.S. Great Plains are
harvesting crops about two weeks earlier than normal as drought
speeds up the maturity of the plants, U.S. Wheat Associates
said May 12.  “Around the world we have a number of trouble spots,”
Chandler said.  In northern France, which grows 80 percent of the
country’s wheat, soil was the driest in a half century at the
end of April, the French Environment Ministry said this week.
The wheat crop is in a “danger zone,” the crops office said
May 11.  French Yields  French soft-wheat yields are forecast to drop to 6.31 tons
a hectare (2.47 acres) from 7.25 tons in 2010, said Agritel,
which advises more than 2,000 farmers on crop sales.  “This reduction of the expected yield is the direct
result of the lack of rain in the past three months,”  Agritel 
said. “Precipitation in the past three months is down 30
percent to 80 percent compared to the seasonal normal. The
excessive temperatures in April amplified the water stress on
the crops.”  In  Germany , wheat yields may slide to 6.87 tons a hectare
from 7.27 tons, Berlin-based DRV said.  “The dryness of the past weeks has plagued the crops
especially in the north-eastern regions and may lead to clear
yield declines,” DRV said.  French Exports  Soft-wheat exports by France, forecast to be the world’s
second-biggest shipper of the grain in the 2010-2011 crop year
after the U.S., will slump, Agritel said. Shipments outside the
EU will drop to 6 million tons from 12.8 million tons,
according to Agritel, which advises more than 2,000 farmers on
crop sales.  Global price gains may be limited by the return of Russian
and Ukrainian supplies, Agritel said.  Russia  still has an
export ban in place after last year’s drought while  Ukraine  has
been limiting sales through a quota system.  Weather conditions and crop development in Russia are “in
the normal range,” MARS said. Ukraine has had “overall good
crop conditions,” with soil moisture at a sufficient level, and
yields are forecast to be 2.9 tons a hectare, comparable to
the five-year average, the agriculture monitoring unit said.  Overall EU soft-wheat yields are forecast to rise to 5.6
tons a hectare in 2011 from 5.5 tons a year earlier, MARS
said. The yield forecast was cut from 5.7 tons in April.  ‘Sharp Reduction’  Overall grain production in the 27-nation bloc is forecast
to be 269.6 million tons, down 3.5 percent compared with the
five-year average, according to the EU unit. “This forecast
could be subject to a further sharp reduction if the weather
conditions remain unfavorable,” MARS said.  Morocco,  Algeria  and  Tunisia , which are wheat importers,
received “good rainfall” in March and at the end of April that
helped crops, MARS said.  Wheat yields in Algeria are forecast at 1.5 tons a hectare,
compared with a five-year average of 1.4 tons, the EU unit said.
Morocco’s wheat productivity is forecast to climb to 2.1 tons
per hectare this year, up 22 percent from 1.7 tons last year,
while Tunisia’s wheat yields are forecast to climb 56 percent to
1.8 tons a hectare, according to MARS.  The drought in Germany will cut rapeseed production by 23
percent to 4.44 million tons, while the country’s barley
harvest will slump 15 percent to 8.9 million tons, DRV said in
today’s report.  Malting barley for November delivery climbed 4 percent to
327.50 euros a ton in Paris, surging 15 percent in the past
four sessions. Rapeseed for delivery the same month climbed 2
percent in the French capital.  European Union sugar-beet yields are forecast to slip 2
percent to 66.7 tons a hectare, with productivity in France,
the world’s biggest grower, sliding 4.9 percent to 85.4 tons
a hectare, MARS said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  