-- 
Yemeni President Saleh Won’t Sign GCC Deal, Minister Says

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   D o n n a   A b u   N a s r
-- 
2011-05-18T20:25:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/yemeni-president-saleh-won-t-sign-gcc-deal-minister-says-1-.html
Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh
refused to sign a Gulf Cooperation Council proposal to begin a
transition of power, objecting to the inclusion of some
opposition members in the deal, said Abdu al-Janadi, the deputy
information minister.  Saleh’s decision came after the U.S. stepped up pressure on
the Yemeni leader to accept the proposal as a step toward ending
protests against the regime.  John Brennan , President  Barack Obama ’s top counterterrorism
adviser, called Saleh this morning to urge him “to sign and
implement the Gulf Cooperation Council-brokered agreement so
that Yemen is able to move forward immediately with its
political transition,” a White House statement said.  “This transfer of power represents the best path forward
for Yemen to become a more secure, unified, and prosperous
nation and for the Yemeni people to realize their aspirations
for peace and political reform,” the statement said.  Yemen, a partner in U.S. efforts to root out al-Qaeda and
its sympathizers in the region, is one of the countries in the
Middle East and North Africa that have been shaken by anti-
government protests. The Obama administration has condemned the
government’s violent crackdown.  The head of the gulf council, Abdulatif al-Zayani, left
Yemen today without securing the approval of Yemeni parties on
the proposal to end the standoff, the state-run Saba news agency
said.  Earlier, a representative of the opposition, Mohammed al-
Mutawakkil, said Yemen’s ruling and opposition parties were
close to signing the deal, which would have Saleh stepping down
within 30 days. The accord guarantees Saleh and his family
immunity from prosecution, he said.  Resolving Standoff  The agreement, brokered by members of the six-nation gulf
council, aims to end weeks of anti-government protests that
began in January. At least 100 people have died in clashes with
government security forces, according to the Arabic Sisters
Forum for Human Rights.  If he steps down, Saleh would be the third Middle Eastern
leader forced from office by protest movements this year, after
 Egypt ’s  Hosni Mubarak  and  Tunisia ’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali.  GCC officials are seeking to avert an escalation of the
violence in Yemen or a deadly military divide like the one in
 Libya . Rising social unrest also threatens to strengthen al-
Qaeda as it seeks to use Yemen, the poorest Arab nation, as a
base from which to destabilize neighboring  Saudi Arabia , the
world’s largest exporter of crude oil.  Obama tomorrow plans to offer a fresh blueprint for the
U.S. role in the region following the wave of upheavals that
began in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  