-- 
Zen Investment Cuts Commodities for Stocks After Beating Hedge-Fund Rivals

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-18T00:04:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/zen-investment-cuts-commodities-for-stocks-after-beating-hedge-fund-rivals.html
Shanghai  Zen Investment Management
Co., a hedge fund that beat 99 percent of its rivals this year
by betting on commodities, is cutting its allocation in raw
materials by 30 percent and likely to buy  China  and U.S. stocks.  The Zen Macro Strategic Fund may purchase equities in  Asia 
including  Hong Kong  and  India  because falling commodity prices
will reduce inflationary pressure, Jacky Cheung, chairman of Zen
Investment, said in an interview at its offices in Shanghai on
May 16. China’s financial and power companies are attractive
because of valuations, he said, without naming any.  “With the decline in investors’ risk appetite, the
commodities market may not have hit bottom yet,” said Cheung,
41. “Equities will be very good investments in the second half
and next year.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials has
fallen 12 percent from a two-year high in April as the dollar
strengthened against the euro after the  European Central Bank 
signaled it would hold off raising interest rates and concern
intensified  Greece  will struggle restructuring its debt.  Cheung has cut the fund’s commodities allocation since late
last month, saying a surge in silver prices is a sign that gains
in raw material prices are excessive. Silver jumped 28 percent
last month, the biggest monthly advance in 28 years, before
plunging 27 percent in the first week of May on higher margin
requirements.  The prospects of a slowdown in the global economy and a
strengthening dollar have made commodity assets riskier, said
Cheung. Global investors plan to put more of their money in cash
and less in commodities over the next six months, a Bloomberg
Global Poll of 1,263 investors, analysts and traders who are
Bloomberg subscribers showed last week.  U.S. Stocks  Cheung’s fund, incorporated in the  Cayman Islands , has
returned 55 percent this year to April 28, the second-best
performance out of 520 active hedge funds with a global macro
focus, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Zen Investment
Management has $77 million in assets.  U.S. stocks are attractive because of valuations amid the
prospect of a sustainable recovery in the world’s biggest
economy, Cheung said. Employers added more jobs than forecast in
April, the Labor Department said on May 6 in  Washington .  Cheung expects inflation to ease in Asia, allowing
countries including China to ease its policy tightening measures.
The Shanghai Composite Index has fallen 6.7 percent from a five-
month high on April 18 amid concern the government will keep
adding to four increases in  interest rates  since October to slow
inflation that accelerated at the fastest pace in three years in
March.  ‘Relax Tightening’  China’s stock measure trades at 13.2 times estimated
earnings for this year, compared with a multiple of 19.9 over
the past four years, according to weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with 14.4 times for India’s Bombay
Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, 11.1 for the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index and 13.4 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  “Given’s  Europe ’s debt crisis and declines in commodities,
China is more likely to relax tightening policies than intensify
them in the second half of the year,” said Cheung. “The
current valuation of stocks is really low. There’s a big
probability that stocks will have a decent rally.”  --Zhang Shidong. With assistance from Karen Qian in Beijing.
Editors: Allen Wan, Darren Boey.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  