-- ‘One Direction’ Takes Top Spot, Record Summer Box Office
-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y ,   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-09-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/-one-direction-takes-top-spot-to-cap-record-summer-box-office.html
“One Direction: This Is Us,” the
concert documentary on the British boy band, led the box office
at U.S. and Canadian theaters over the Labor Day weekend,
capping a record summer for Hollywood.  “This Is Us” collected $17 million over three days for
 Sony Corp. (6758) , researcher Hollywood.com Box-Office said in a
statement. “Lee Daniels’ The Butler” fell to second after two
weeks at No. 1.  Tomorrow’s holiday closes out Hollywood’s biggest movie
season, when studios release many major blockbusters. Ticket
sales are estimated by Hollywood.com to total $4.71 billion, up
10 percent from last summer and surpassing 2011’s all-time high
of $4.4 billion, despite misses like “The Lone Ranger.”  “This has been a huge summer,” said  Paul Dergarabedian ,
president of Hollywood.com-Box Office, in an interview. “It’s
amazing, especially after coming off so many big-budget tent-pole flops.”  “One Direction: This Is Us,” made for an estimated $10
million, was projected to take $22 million in its first four
days, according to Boxoffice.com.  About the popular band mentored by pop impresario  Simon Cowell , “One Direction” follows Harry Styles, Niall Horan,
Louis Tomlinson, Zayn Malik and Liam Payne on a 150-date world
tour. Tracing the boys’ hometown beginnings, it’s a mix of live
concert footage with behind-the-scenes shots.  “The Butler” collected $14.7 million to bring its total
to $74 million over three weeks. The movie, starring Forest Whitaker and  Oprah Winfrey , is distributed by Weinstein Co.  Surprise hit “We’re the Millers”, finished in third, with
$12.6 million, and crossed the $100 million mark.  Record Haul  Bankable sequels like “Iron Man 3” and “Fast & Furious
6” contributed to the record haul. The animated “Despicable Me
2,” made for $76 million, has collected $354.6 million in
domestic theaters for  Universal Pictures  since its opening on
July 3, according to Box Office Mojo -- second only to Walt
Disney Co.’s “Iron Man” sequel among releases since May.  “The biggest films are getting increasingly bigger and the
vulnerability for everyone else is growing,” Christopher
Meledandri, producer of “Despicable Me 2,” said in an
interview.  “Fast & Furious 6,” the latest of the car-chase sagas,
has generated $238.6 million domestically.  Other summer movies that have topped $200 million in the
U.S. include “Man of Steel” from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner
Bros., “Monsters University” from Disney and “Star Trek Into
Darkness” from Paramount.  Studios, Theater Split  Studios typically split box-office revenue with theater
owners, then collect later fees from outlets such as DVD sales,
cable-channel play and on-demand viewing. After production and
marketing costs, few movies make back their investment while in
theaters.  This summer, some big-budget movies flopped, including
 Johnny Depp ’s “The Lone Ranger” and Sony’s “After Earth”
with  Will Smith . Studios may be more selective in the future
about releasing expensive movies that aren’t sequels,
Dergarabedian said.  “The Lone Ranger,” made for about $225 million, has
generated $88.1 million domestically. Disney, based in  Burbank ,
 California , will record a loss of as much as $190 million on the
film this quarter. “After Earth, made for $130 million
according to Box Office Mojo, has collected $60.5 million in the
U.S.  Hits Offset Misses  “There were enough hits to more than offset the misses.
Even the films that didn’t meet expectations contributed to this
record total,” said Dergarabedian.  “Getaway,” a new release from  Warner Bros . starring Ethan Hawke and Selena Gomez, took in $4.5 million for ninth place.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 8.5 percent to
$92.8 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Attendance year to date is down 2.3 percent, while revenue has
risen 1 percent.  The following table has U.S. movie box-office figures
provided by studios to Hollywood.com Box-Office. The amounts are
based on gross ticket sales on Aug. 30 and Aug. 31, and
estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Livesey in  San Francisco  at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  