-- Abenomics Litmus Test Looms as Pressure Mounts on Taxes
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   C h i k a k o   M o g i
-- 2013-09-03T04:46:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/abenomics-litmus-test-looms-as-pressure-mounts-for-cutting-taxes.html
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe faces
rising pressure to expand tax relief for  Japan ’s companies after
the longest slump in business investment since 2009, setting up
a potential battle with the  Finance Ministry .  Officials will unveil tax breaks for capital spending in
coming months, according to all 17 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey -- a step Finance Minister Taro Aso has backed. Aso
opposes a broader cut in corporate tax rates, even after a slide
in investment since the start of 2012, and his ministry has a
history of shielding revenue.  With analysts at banks from HSBC Holdings Plc and Mizuho
Securities Co. to Royal Bank of  Scotland  Group Plc predicting
limited impact from steps such as accelerated depreciation
allowances, lobbying may intensify for stronger action. At issue
for Abe is sustaining confidence in his recipe for ending
Japan’s stagnation while addressing concern about the nation’s
fiscal sustainability.  “Cutting corporate tax rates will require strong political
clout,” said Shigeki Morinobu, a former director of the
Ministry of Finance’s tax bureau. “It’ll be a litmus test for
Abenomics.”  The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry said last week
that lowering the effective corporate  tax rate  is an “important
issue,” while Abe’s coalition partner, the New Komeito party,
said that reductions could counter the blow to the economy from
a sales-tax increase planned for April.  Investment Reports  Business investment fell for the sixth straight quarter in
the April-June period, according to preliminary gross domestic
product data released by the Cabinet Office. A separate finance
ministry report yesterday showed  capital spending  in the second
quarter was unchanged from a year earlier.  The Topix index of stocks jumped 2.4 percent as of 1:45 p.m
in  Tokyo  today, extending this year’s advance to 33 percent, as
weakness in the yen and signs of strength in the global economy
boost the outlook for exporters.  Japan’s corporate tax rate of 35.6 percent includes local
and national components and compares with 25 percent in  China 
and 17 percent in  Singapore , according to the finance ministry.
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development data show
Japan has the second-highest rate of member nations, after the
U.S. The rate is now 38 percent because of a three-year increase
to fund reconstruction after a 2011 earthquake and tsunami.  Economic Metabolism  At HSBC, economist Izumi Devalier says that lowering the
levy could help increase the metabolism of the economy,
encouraging investment by overseas companies and fostering
start-ups and innovation. Finance Minister Aso has argued that a
reduction would be ineffective because 70 percent of companies
don’t pay corporate income tax.  “The Ministry of Finance looks at tax cuts like a
temperance campaigner views booze sales,” said  Jeff Kingston ,
professor of Asian studies at  Temple University  in Tokyo.  The Bloomberg poll showed analysts divided on when or if
the government may cut the corporate income tax rate. Most saw a
move within the next two to three years, with some saying it
could come as early as March next year. Others saw no cut in the
forseeable future.  Abe’s Liberal  Democratic Party  vowed to make a “bold”
reduction in its campaign for the upper-house election in July,
and the prime minister said July 4 he wants to discuss a cut to
make Japan more competitive.  Political Capital  Already facing opposition from interest groups in areas
such as health care and agriculture to changes planned under the
Abenomics banner, Abe may need to consider how consumers
grappling with higher prices from a  sales-tax  increase would
react to extra aid for companies, and how much political capital
to invest in pushing through such a move.  The finance ministry convinced then Prime Minister Noboru Takeshita to support a 3 percent sales tax in 1988 despite the
potential for electoral damage, according to former METI
official Jun Okumura, who now works for Eurasia Group.  Abe’s predecessor  Yoshihiko Noda , who had served as finance
minister, abandoned his Democratic Party of Japan’s pledge to
not raise taxes by pushing through legislation for the first
increase in the sales levy in 15 years. The move contributed to
Noda’s ousting by Abe in December.  “As the money-keeper, MOF is able to bully other
ministries,” said  Koichi Nakano , professor of politics at
 Sophia University  in Tokyo.  Growth Strategy  Abe’s growth strategy aims to get investment back to a pre-financial crisis level of about 70 trillion yen ($712 billion)
per year from about 63 trillion yen in the fiscal year ending
March 2013.  Measures to encourage capital spending may cause only a
“marginal frontloading” of investment, according to Takuji Okubo, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist who’s now at
Japan Macro Advisors in Tokyo. Long Hanhua Wang, an economist at
Royal Bank of Scotland in Tokyo, said the effect of any tax
relief for capital spending “won’t be that big.”  Nomura Securities Co. said last week that a corporate
income tax cut of 10 percentage points during the fiscal year
starting April would offset most of the negative effect on the
economy from raising the sales tax in two stages to 10 percent
in 2015 from 5 percent now. At the same time, it would damage
government efforts to tackle a ballooning national debt, making
a later reduction preferable, Nomura said.  Company Clamor  “We want corporate taxes in line with other nations,”
Hiroshi Tomono, chairman of the Japan Iron and Steel Federation
and president of  Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corp. (5401) , said in
July. In an interview, Teruo Asada, chairman of  Marubeni Corp. (8002) ,
Japan’s biggest agricultural commodities trader, said that the
levy is “still very high.”  A 10 percentage point cut in the corporate tax rate would
lift gross domestic product growth by 1.1 percentage points in
10 years, according to estimates by  Toshihiro Nagahama , chief
economist at the Dai-ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo.  Three panels have a pipeline to the prime minister on
taxation and each has a different agenda, according to  Robert Feldman , head of Japan economic research at Morgan Stanley MUFG
Securities Co. A  Liberal Democratic Party  committee uses the tax
system as a political device; a government panel sees it as
revenue tool; and the economic and fiscal policy council -- a
gathering of policy makers, business leaders and economists --
sees a method for aiding economic growth.  “Abe has to make the decision on corporate tax cuts in the
end,” Feldman said. “He’ll be torn by people from both sides
and he’ll just have to go with his gut at some point. I think
he’ll lean toward a tax cut.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chikako Mogi in Tokyo at 
 cmogi@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  