-- Airport Wait Times Set to Drop With New Technology, Arinc Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-02T03:31:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/airport-wait-times-set-to-drop-with-new-technology-arinc-says.html
Passengers will spend less time at
airports in coming years as more efficient operators deploy
advanced technology to reduce waiting, aviation services company
Arinc Inc. said.  Arinc’s products targeted at improving the screening of
passenger information and travel documents to improve the flow
through terminals will help make travel “much less stressful,”
said Michael DiGeorge, a Singapore-based managing director of
the Asia-Pacific division for the Annapolis, Maryland-based
company, which  Rockwell Collins Inc. (COL)  agreed last month to buy
for $1.39 billion.  “The passenger is the one who’s going to have more control
over that whole experience than they currently have,” DiGeorge
said in a phone interview on Aug. 30. “That process of going
from check-in through immigration through boarding is going to
get more invisible.”  Wait times to clear customs and immigration at major U.S.
airports regularly exceed targets, with travelers often waiting
three hours or more, causing industry concerns that landing
rights will be denied during peak congestion,  Tony Tyler , chief
executive officer of the  International Air Transport
Association , said in a  speech  in April.  Myanmar and Vietnam are among Asian nations planning to
build new airports, while Singapore plans to build a new
terminal that Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong  said  last month is
needed to respond to competition from regional airports such as
those in Bangkok and  Kuala Lumpur .  “Airports are going to be competing against each other,”
DiGeorge said. “It’s the airports that can provide the best
experience for the passenger, and get them from curbside to the
gate the quickest, that is going to attract those passengers.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City  at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  