-- Malaysia Seeks to Deport Almost Half Million Illegal Workers
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w ,   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-09-02T06:19:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/malaysia-seeks-to-deport-almost-half-million-illegal-workers.html
Malaysia  arrested thousands of
undocumented immigrants as the country began a nationwide
operation to track down and deport almost half a million illegal
workers from countries including Indonesia and  Bangladesh .  A total of 2,433  people  were arrested during 40 operations
that began simultaneously across the country yesterday led by
the immigration department, army, police and local councils,
Saravana Kumar, a Department of Immigration deputy director,
said in a telephone interview today. The crackdown is the
largest to date in the country, he said.  Malaysia,  Southeast Asia ’s third-largest  economy , is
clamping down on cheap illegal labor as it strives to move up
the value chain from its agricultural base into more high-end
manufacturing and services. About 1.3 million overstayers
registered for permits during an amnesty in 2011, Saravana said.
This is the second nationwide crackdown since then on those who
failed to come forward.  The operation “will continue till end of the year and
during this process, we will identify, arrest, charge and deport
all those who have committed offenses under the Immigration
Act,” Alias Ahmad, director general of immigration, said in a
telephone interview today. “Employers found harboring or
employing illegal immigrants will be charged in court.”  The government estimates there are still more than 400,000
foreign laborers who haven’t obtained legal documents, Saravana
said. Malaysia has 30.1 million people and had an unemployment
rate of 3.1 percent at the end of last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The move coincides with an expected slowdown in economic
growth. The central bank cut its forecast for growth this year
to 4.5 percent to 5 percent last month after expansion last
quarter fell short of economists’ estimates.  Malaysia is also planning to delay some government-linked
infrastructure projects to help contain a  budget deficit  and
bolster a shrinking current-account surplus,  Idris Jala , a
minister in the Prime Minister’s Department said last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elffie Chew at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net ;
Manirajan Ramasamy in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson in Singapore at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  