-- Malaysia’s Najib Raises Fuel Prices to Trim Budget Gap
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-09-03T07:50:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/malaysia-s-najib-raises-fuel-prices-to-trim-budget-gap.html
Malaysia raised fuel prices for the
first time since 2010, joining neighboring  Indonesia  in curbing
subsidies that have stretched government budgets and threatened
investor confidence.  The price of the widely used RON 95 grade of gasoline rose
20 sen to 2.10 ringgit ($0.64) a liter after Prime Minister
Najib Razak announced the change yesterday in Putrajaya, outside
of Kuala Lumpur. Diesel was put up 20 sen to 2 ringgit a liter.
The increases will help the government save about 1.1 billion
ringgit this year and 3.3 billion ringgit annually in future by
reducing state subsidies, he said.  “The external environment is increasingly challenging,”
Najib said. “The moderation in the current account of the
balance of payments, coupled with continued fiscal deficits,
pose medium-term risks to the economy.” Strengthening the
fiscal deficit position is vital to sustaining the  economy’s 
resilience and enhancing public and investor confidence, he said.  The ringgit fell 0.4 percent to 3.2859 per dollar as of
3:48 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur today. Malaysian officials signaled
last week they were preparing measures to strengthen the budget
position as the currency touched a three-year low. The Southeast
Asian nation joins  emerging markets  from Indonesia to  India  in
working to regain investor confidence as the prospect that the
U.S. will reduce stimulus spurs capital outflows.  Fitch Concern  Najib pledged measures to tackle risks to the fiscal
position after Fitch Ratings in July cut Malaysia’s rating
outlook to negative, citing the nation’s rising debt and lack of
budgetary reform. Moody’s Investors Service said last month the
country has a “narrow” revenue base and “relatively high”
government deficits, state subsidy bills and debt.  Banks including RHB Capital Bhd. and Malayan Banking Bhd.
today raised their  inflation  forecasts for this year and next to
reflect higher fuel costs.  Inflation may accelerate to 2.2 percent in 2013 from an
earlier estimate of 2 percent, Peck Boon Soon, an RHB economist,
wrote in a report. The government might raise pump prices twice
next year, pushing the consumer price index up 3.2 percent in
2014, he said.  “The fuel price increase is quite substantial,”  Rahul Bajoria , a Singapore-based economist at Barclays Plc, said by
phone yesterday. “This move will be taken as positive, but
there is more to go. It’s probably a sign that the
administration is acknowledging that there are concerns around
the fiscal position and they are starting to move in the right
direction. They need to do more.”  Safety Net  Additional measures to tackle the  deficit  will be announced
in the 2014 budget, along with increased cash handouts for the
poor to help ease the burden as the government gradually
rationalizes blanket subsidies, said Najib, who is also finance
minister.  “Over the longer term, a comprehensive social safety net
will be introduced,” said the premier, who is due to unveil his
2014 spending plans on Oct. 25  Some state building projects with high import content will
be delayed to help address the narrowing  current-account  surplus,
said Najib. The government has yet to decide which ones, though
it won’t include a planned subway in Kuala Lumpur, he said.  The surplus shrank 70 percent to 2.6 billion ringgit in the
second quarter, the lowest level since at least 1999, according
to government data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rates Impact  “The monetary bias for 2014 is now tilted towards slight
tightening of 25 basis points should global growth strengthen in
a synchronized manner,” Sia Ket Ee, an economist at Hong Leong
Financial Group Bhd., wrote in a report today.  Malaysia left benchmark interest rates unchanged at 3
percent for a 13th straight policy meeting in July. The central
bank is likely to continue to hold borrowing costs to support
growth on Sept. 5, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 17
economists.  Foreign funds sold 6.8 billion ringgit of Malaysian stocks
in August as investors exited emerging Asian markets, according
to data on the stock exchange’s website. Maybank today cut its
year-end forecast for the benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI
Index to 1,750 from 1,840, while CIMB Group Holdings Bhd.
reduced its estimate to 1,790 from 1,850 to reflect weaker
earnings expectations, the banks said in separate reports.  Najib said the government currently subsidizes 83 sen a
liter for RON 95 gasoline and 1 ringgit for every liter of
diesel, which would have resulted in a total fuel subsidy cost
for 2013 of 24.8 billion ringgit. With yesterday’s reduction,
the government will now subsidize 63 sen for RON 95 and 80 sen
for diesel, he said.  Welfare Programs  The total cost to cap prices of essential goods including
fuel, sugar and cooking oil, and provide for social welfare
programs was estimated to decline to 37.6 billion ringgit in
2013 from a subsidy bill of 42.4 billion ringgit in 2012, a
finance ministry report showed in September last year.  The ringgit has fallen 6.9 percent against the dollar this
year, the fifth-worst performance among 11 most-traded Asian
currencies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The ringgit is reflection of the external economy and
beyond our control,” Najib said. “It is not giving us undue
stress at this time being. We will focus in strengthening our
economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at  