-- Malaysia’s Top Bond Arranger Sees Ringgit Rebounding From Slide
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-09-02T07:49:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/malaysia-s-top-bond-arranger-sees-ringgit-rebounding-from-slide.html
The ringgit, which fell to a three-year low last week, will gain as much as 5.3 percent by year end
as policies meant to strengthen the current account help it
weather an emerging-market selloff, the country’s top bond
arranger said.  The currency will recover to 3.10 and 3.15 per dollar as
the country’s $444 billion economic transformation plan supports
growth, Michael Lim Kheng Boon, a treasury director at RHB Bank
Bhd., said in an Aug. 30 interview. Government measures to
reduce import means the broadest measure of trade won’t fall
into deficit and the nation’s $137.9 billion of foreign  reserves 
place it “in a good shape,” he said.  The ringgit has lost 8 percent since May 22, the third-worst performance among  Asia ’s 11 most-traded currencies tracked
by Bloomberg. Global funds have sold local assets on concerns
about the Southeast Asian nation’s shrinking current-account
surplus and a potential reduction in U.S. stimulus. Malaysia’s
currency is more vulnerable than  Thailand  to U.S. tapering as
its public finances are weaker, BNP Paribas SA senior economist
Philip McNicholas, wrote in a note today.  “We haven’t really seen people panic,” said Lim, who is
also RHB’s director of group transaction banking in Kuala
Lumpur. “The government is already responding to the concern
about the shrinking current-account surplus.”  The ringgit declined 1.2 percent in August, its fourth
monthly drop, after an Aug. 21 report showed the surplus in the
broadest measure of trade shrank 70 percent to 2.6 billion
ringgit ($795 million) in the second quarter, the least since at
least 1999.  The currency gained 0.4 percent to 3.2725 per dollar as of
2:46 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It’s forecast to appreciate to 3.26 by year end,
according to the median estimate of 27 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. Global funds are likely to hold Malaysian sovereign debt
to maturity rather than sell, said Lim.  Thailand, Indonesia            Malaysia’s current-account surplus will narrow to 4.5
percent of gross domestic product this year from 6.1 percent in
2012, according to the median estimate of economists polled by
Bloomberg. That would still be higher than Thailand’s expected
surplus of 0.6 percent and  Indonesia ’s estimated 3 percent
deficit, Bloomberg surveys show.  The authorities may reschedule public building projects
with high import content and cut subsidies as well as start a
 consumption tax  to bolster its current-account position,
government officials said Aug. 29. This comes after  Fitch
Ratings  lowered its outlook on the country in July and warned it
may miss its budget shortfall reduction target if it doesn’t
enact reforms.  The Southeast Asian nation has run a  fiscal deficit  since
the Asian Financial Crisis in 1998. The authorities aim to trim
it to 3 percent of gross domestic product by 2015, from 4
percent this year, according to a July 31 government statement.  “I don’t see the ringgit being very volatile,” he said.
“It has been quite resilient as compared to counterparts in
India and Jakarta.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  