-- Malaysia Raises Fuel Prices as Najib Seeks to Trim Budget Gap
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-09-02T12:39:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/malaysia-raises-fuel-prices-as-najib-seeks-to-trim-budget-gap.html
Malaysia raised fuel prices for the
first time since 2010, joining neighboring  Indonesia  in curbing
subsidies that have stretched government budgets and threatened
investor confidence.  The price of the widely used RON 95 grade of gasoline will
rise 20 sen to 2.10 ringgit ($0.64) a liter at midnight,
according to an announcement by Prime Minister Najib Razak today
in Putrajaya, outside of Kuala Lumpur. Diesel will increase 20
sen to 2 ringgit a liter. The increases will help the government
save about 1.1 billion ringgit this year and 3.3 billion ringgit
annually in future by reducing state subsidies, he said.  “The external environment is increasingly challenging,”
Najib said. “The moderation in the current account of the
balance of payments, coupled with continued fiscal deficits,
pose medium-term risks to the economy.” Strengthening the
fiscal deficit position is vital to sustaining the  economy’s 
resilience and enhancing public and investor confidence, he said.  The ringgit climbed to a two-week high today before the
measures were announced. Malaysian officials signaled last week
they were preparing measures to strengthen the budget position
as the currency touched a three-year low. The Southeast Asian
nation joins  emerging markets  from Indonesia to  India  in working
to regain investor confidence as the prospect that the U.S. will
reduce stimulus spurs capital outflows.  Najib pledged measures to tackle risks to the fiscal
position after  Fitch Ratings  in July cut Malaysia’s rating
outlook to negative, citing the nation’s rising debt and lack of
budgetary reform. Moody’s Investors Service said last month the
country has a “narrow” revenue base and “relatively high”
government deficits, state subsidy bills and debt.  ‘More Needed’  “The fuel price increase is quite substantial,”  Rahul Bajoria , a Singapore-based economist at Barclays Plc, said by
phone today. “This move will be taken as positive, but there is
more to go. It’s probably a sign that the administration is
acknowledging that there are concerns around the fiscal position
and they are starting to move in the right direction. They need
to do more.”  Additional measures to tackle the  deficit  will be announced
in the 2014 budget, along with increased cash handouts for the
poor to help ease the burden as the government gradually
rationalizes blanket subsidies, said Najib, who is also finance
minister.  “Over the longer term, a comprehensive social safety net
will be introduced,” said the premier, who is due to unveil his
2014 spending plans on Oct. 25  Ringgit’s Fall  Some state building projects with high import content will
be delayed to help address the narrowing  current-account  surplus,
said Najib. The government has yet to decide which ones, though
it won’t include a planned subway in Kuala Lumpur, he said.  The surplus shrank 70 percent to 2.6 billion ringgit in the
second quarter, the lowest level since at least 1999, according
to government data compiled by Bloomberg.  Najib said the government currently subsidizes 83 sen a
liter for RON 95 gasoline and 1 ringgit for every liter of
diesel, which would have resulted in a total fuel subsidy cost
for 2013 of 24.8 billion ringgit. With today’s reduction, the
government will now subsidize 63 sen for RON 95 and 80 sen for
diesel, he said.  The total cost to cap prices of essential goods including
fuel, sugar and cooking oil, and provide for social welfare
programs was estimated to decline to 37.6 billion ringgit in
2013 from a subsidy bill of 42.4 billion ringgit in 2012, a
finance ministry report showed in September last year.  The ringgit has fallen 6.6 percent against the dollar this
year, the fifth-worst performance among 11 most-traded Asian
currencies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The ringgit is reflection of the external economy and
beyond our control,” Najib said. “It is not giving us undue
stress at this time being. We will focus in strengthening
our economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at  