-- Alstom Chief Prepares Savings Blueprint to Counter Lower Orders
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-09-02T10:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/alstom-chief-prepares-savings-blueprint-to-counter-lower-orders.html
Alstom SA (SU) , a French maker of power
equipment and trains, is working on a plan to cut costs that
includes curbs on travel expenses as orders slump.  “It’s a savings plan throughout the entire group which
regards general expenditure such as travel, large-group
meetings, missions,” Isabelle Tourancheau, a spokeswoman for
the company, told Bloomberg today. She declined to say whether
the plan will include job losses.  Chief Executive Officer Patrick Kron in May slashed his
forecast for sales and margins, citing a slowdown in the global
economy. Alstom cut  jobs  in Europe and the U.S. as utilities’
demand for power equipment slumped. The company plans to shut
some plants that make windmills and power-grid gear, while
expanding production lines for trains and turbines in countries
such as  China ,  Russia ,  Brazil  and  India  to tap local demand.  Orders in the three months through June were below sales
for the first time in 11 quarters, dropping 32 percent to 4.07
billion euros ($5.4 billion) as utilities and railways in
Europe,  Africa  and the Middle East slashed spending. Sales at
Alstom, based in the Paris suburb of Levallois-Perret, fell 4
percent to 4.58 billion euros.  Savings Blueprint  The savings plan will be presented to Alstom’s board on
Oct. 1, Tourancheau said.  Kron has sent a letter to management saying that the
company will “very soon” outline “swift and decisive actions,
even if they are painful,” to strengthen the company, Le
Journal du Dimanche reported yesterday. The purge will affect
travel, seminars, hiring, training, consultants and sub-contractors, the newspaper said, without citing anyone.  Heads of manufacturing sites have been told in a July 24
message to cut back on travel and make other savings, Patrick
Maillot, a CFDT union representative, told Bloomberg in an
interview today. “I don’t think we’re poised to fire” as the
backlog represents three years of sales at the transport unit.  In 2010, Kron announced 4,000 job cuts at sites that make
coal- and gas-fired power equipment in Europe and the U.S. A
year later, he followed with plants to cut a further 1,380
positions at its transport unit in Europe.  Bouygues Stake  The French company ranks behind  General Electric Co. (GE)  and
Munich-based Siemens AG in the power-equipment industry. It also
competes with Siemens and Montreal-based  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  on
train and metro cars, and with Siemens and  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  in power-transmission markets.  The Alstom CEO, who had predicted sales would rise by more
than 5 percent in the three years through March 2015, cut his
forecast in May, predicting that revenue will “grow organically
at a low single-digit” rate with margins little changed this
year. He also increased his estimate for restructuring charges
to 100 million euros to 150 million euros.  Bouygues SA, which has a 29 percent stake in Alstom, has
threatened to exit its investment during negotiations with the
government over phone licenses, Le Journal du Dimanche reported,
without citing anyone. A Bouygues official declined to comment
on the report.  Alstom shares rose 1.3 percent to 27 euros at 10:53 a.m. in
Paris today. They are down 10 percent this year, while the CAC40
index has risen 9.9 percent.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Alstom’s long-term  credit
rating  by one level in June to Baa3, the lowest investment
grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Noel at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net  