-- Mandela Spends Night at Home After 12 Weeks in Hospital
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-09-02T12:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/mandela-spends-night-at-home-after-12-weeks-in-hospital.html
Nelson Mandela , the former South
African president who led the struggle against apartheid, spent
his first night at his home after nearly three months in the
hospital battling a lung infection.  Mandela, 95, was yesterday moved to his Johannesburg home,
which has been adapted to provide him the care that he had been
receiving at the Medi-Clinic Heart Hospital in  Pretoria .  Mac
Maharaj , the spokesman for President  Jacob Zuma , declined to
comment on his condition today and referred Bloomberg to a
statement issued yesterday.  “Madiba’s condition remains critical and is at times
unstable,” the South African presidency said in a statement on
its website, referring to Mandela by his clan name. “If there
are health conditions that warrant another admission to hospital
in future, this will be done.”  Mandela had been hospitalized since June 8 with a recurring
lung infection and doctors downgraded his condition to critical
on June 23. Mandela, who was jailed from 1964 to 1990 for
opposing white-minority rule, served as president of Africa’s
biggest economy after his  African National Congress  swept to
victory in the first multi-racial elections. He earned global
praise for urging reconciliation, winning the Nobel Peace Prize
in 1993.  Television crews set up cameras outside Mandela’s home in
the suburb of Houghton as police patrolled the streets near the
former leader’s property. One white South African Military
Health Service vehicle was parked outside the entrance.  Painted Stones  People wrote messages on stones that were painted the
colors of the South African flag and piled them on the grass
next to his home’s outside wall. One green stone read “get
well!” from the Platts family of Dallas,  Texas .  “It’s good that he’s home,” said Moffat Lungu, a 34-year-old from Malawi who works as a security guard about 50 meters
from Mandela’s house. “Mandela is our grandfather, so it’s
better that he’s back home.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  