-- Hankook Tire Plans U.S. Plant to Meet Rising Automakers’ Demand
-- B y   R o s e   K i m
-- 2013-09-02T09:17:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/hankook-tire-plans-u-s-plant-to-meet-rising-automakers-demand.html
Hankook Tire Co. (161390) , South Korea’s
biggest tiremaker, plans to build a plant in the U.S. to meet
increasing demand.  The company is in talks to locate the factory in Tennessee,
South Carolina, or Georgia, and the decision should be made as
early as next month, Cho Hyun Shick, president of  Hankook Tire
Worldwide Co. (000240) , which is in charge of Hankook Tire investment
decisions, said in Seoul today.  The tiremaker intends to start with a capacity for 5
million units a year before gradually doubling that as it boosts
its foothold in developed markets, Cho said. Hankook, which said
today it will supply  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz S-Class models,
is also expanding plants in Indonesia and China as it takes on
bigger global rivals including Tokyo-based  Bridgestone Corp. (5108)   “By building a plant in the U.S., Hankook Tire is saying
that it is now prepared to go head to head with top tiremakers
in developed markets as well as emerging markets where it
already holds a strong position,” Lee Hyung Sil, an analyst at
Shinyoung Securities Co., said by phone today. “The fact that
Mercedes-Benz awarded the new S-Class contract to Hankook Tire
also shows the company’s competitiveness.”  Hankook Tire jumped 4.5 percent, its biggest gain since May
14, to close at 60,200 won in Seoul trading. The benchmark Kospi
fell 0.1 percent.  The company also won a contract to supply  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) 
for its new Altima and has expanded orders from Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Suh Seung Hwa, chief
executive officer of Hankook Tire said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  