-- Asian Stocks Rise Third Day on China Manufacturing
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-09-02T08:48:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/asian-stocks-rise-third-day-on-china-manufacturing-expansion.html
Asian  stocks  gained for a third day
after a gauge of  China ’s manufacturing rose to a 16-month high,
boosting investor confidence in the global economic recovery.  Fanuc Corp., a maker of controls to run  machine tools  that
earns 72 percent of its revenue in Asia, climbed 2.7 percent.
 Billabong International Ltd. (BBG)  surged 14 percent after the
Australian surfwear company said Coastal Capital International
Ltd. is seeking a board shakeup. Everbright Securities Co.
slumped by as much as the 10 percent daily limit in  Shanghai  as
the company that roiled China’s equity market two weeks ago with
errant trades said two executives resigned amid record penalties
imposed by regulators after an investigation.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index advanced 0.5 percent to 130.88
as of 4:34 p.m. in  Hong Kong . About two shares climbed for each
that declined. The measure fell 1.6 percent in August, the third
drop in four months. The gauge rose 0.6 percent this year
through Aug. 30, lagging a 15 percent surge in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index as investors sold assets across the region on
expectations the  Federal Reserve  will taper U.S. economic
stimulus this month.  “Growth expectations globally continue to improve,”
 Michael Kurtz , Hong Kong-based chief global equity strategist at
Nomura Holdings Inc.,  Japan ’s largest brokerage, said in an e-mail. “An ongoing rebalancing in China keeps growth there
largely on a moderating trend.”  Japan’s Topix index rose 1.1 percent as the yen fell 1.2
percent to 99.33 per dollar. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
advanced 1 percent to close at the highest level in three
months. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index gained 1.2 percent. Hong
Kong’s Hang Seng Index jumped 2 percent and China’s Shanghai
Composite Index was little changed. Singapore’s Straits Times
Index added 0.8 percent and Taiwan’s Taiex Index rose 0.2
percent. South Korea’s Kospi index slid 0.1 percent.  China Manufacturing  China’s manufacturing purchasing managers’ index, the
official government measure of factory output, rose to 51 in
August, beating the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
survey and rising from 50.3 in July. HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics issued the final reading of a separate private
gauge today that confirmed initial figures showing the biggest
jump in three years for China.  Expanding Chinese manufacturing may bolster confidence that
the economy is responding to Premier  Li Keqiang ’s policies to
support growth amid a crackdown on shadow banking aimed at
curbing financial risks. JPMorgan Chase & Co. yesterday joined
Deutsche Bank AG and Credit Suisse Group AG in raising estimates
for an increase in Chinese gross domestic product, citing
strength in infrastructure and real estate plus a pickup in
exports.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index dropped 1.9 percent last
month as concern that Fed stimulus tapering will reduce inflows
into developing nations was exacerbated by the threat of an
attack on  Syria  and signs of slowing growth from India to
Indonesia. Indonesia’s Jakarta Stock Exchange Composite Index
slumped 9 percent in August and Thailand’s SET Index tumbled 9.1
percent.  “One of the areas that has been showing great stability is
north  Asia ,” Timothy Riddell, Singapore-based head of Asian
global markets research at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group, told Bloomberg TV. “That’s one of the bright spots. This
is a reason to stabilize the pessimism on other areas within
Asia.”  U.S. employers probably added more workers in August and
the jobless rate held at the lowest level in more than four
years, signaling a strengthening labor market that will help
sustain growth, economists said before Labor Department figures
due Sept. 6. Payrolls rose by 180,000 following a 162,000 gain
in July, according to the median forecast of 71 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  U.S. Futures  Japan’s Topix index climbed 30 percent in 2013, the best
performing among 24 developed markets tracked by Bloomberg, amid
optimism Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and the  Bank of Japan  can
lead the country out of deflation through unprecedented monetary
easing and regulatory reforms.  Futures on the  S&P 500  climbed 1 percent today. The gauge
fell 0.3 percent Aug. 30, capping its worst monthly drop since
May 2012 as investors weighed the prospects for American
military action against Syria and disappointing data on  consumer
spending . U.S. markets are closed today for the Labor Day
holiday.  Japanese exporters gained as the yen weakened. Fanuc rose
2.7 percent to 15,420 yen.  Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723) , a
chipmaker that gets about 46 percent of sales overseas, added
1.1 percent to 377 yen. Toyota Motor Corp., Asia’s largest
carmaker, climbed 1 percent to 6,000 yen.  Billabong, Minzhong  Billabong surged 14 percent to 48.5 Australian cents. The
firm that’s already fielded five takeover and refinancing
proposals since February 2012 said Coastal Capital, which has a
5 percent stake in the surfwear company, is seeking a board
shakeup.  China Minzhong Food Corp., the vegetable producer that had
slumped after allegations by a short-seller, more than doubled
to S$1.12 in Singapore after PT Indofood Sukses Makmur, the
largest shareholder, offered S$488 million ($383 million) cash
for the rest of the company. Indofood tumbled 9.2 percent to
5,900 rupiah in Jakarta.  Everbright slumped 8.5 percent to 9.21  yuan  in Shanghai,
after earlier dropping by the 10 percent daily limit. The 23.4
billion yuan ($3.8 billion) of erroneous stock purchase orders
that roiled China’s markets on Aug. 16, and later trades to
offset the mistake, led to Everbright being barred from most
proprietary trading, lifetime bans from the  securities market 
for four executives and the resignation of the president.  HTC Corp. lost 5.8 percent to NT$147.50 in Taipei as five
employees were detained by Taiwan authorities after the
smartphone maker alleged that some of its  trade secrets  were
breached.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  