-- Oil Gains on Syria While Stocks Rise, Treasuries Retreat
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2013-09-03T20:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/asian-futures-climb-as-yen-holds-slide-while-crude-drops.html
Crude oil and gold advanced amid
concern America is moving closer to striking Syria, while U.S.
stocks rose and Treasuries retreated for a second day as a
report showed faster-than-forecast growth in manufacturing.  West Texas Intermediate oil climbed 0.8 percent to $108.54
a barrel and gold futures gained 1.1 percent to $1,412 an ounce.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent to 1,639.77
after jumping more than 1.1 percent in the first half hour of
trading. Ten-year Treasury yields added eight basis points to
2.86 percent. Benchmark equity gauges in Turkey, Dubai, Kuwait
and Abu Dhabi sank at least 1.7 percent. The Bloomberg U.S.
 Dollar Index  touched a seven-week high.  U.S. stocks  trimmed  an early advance and oil extended gains
as House Speaker  John Boehner  backed President  Barack Obama ’s
call for action against Syria. Earlier gains in stocks followed
a report that showed faster-than-forecast growth in
manufacturing, while Microsoft Corp.’s purchase of Nokia Oyj’s
handset unit and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s $130 billion
acquisition of the rest of its wireless business also fueled
speculation that deals will boost stocks.  “The market has been resilient,”  Jason Cooper , a  money
manager  who helps oversee $2.5 billion in South Bend, Indiana,
at 1st Source Investment Advisors, said in a phone interview.
“There is still some opinion that if there is anything negative
or anywhere that you can pull some negative vibe from, then the
bears are going to react. Any negative news or conflict in
Syria, that’d just give them some fuel to say ‘hey, maybe things
aren’t that great and we need to really buckle down.’”  Oil, Stocks  West Texas Intermediate crude oil climbed to as much as
$108.83 a barrel in New York, approaching a two-year high of
$110.10 set on Aug. 28. Early gains were triggered after Israel
carried out a joint missile test launch with the U.S. in the
Mediterranean Sea.  Brent crude , the European benchmark, added
1.2 percent to $115.68.  “The market is processing what appears to be a slow grind
to military action against Syria,” said  John Kilduff , a partner
at Again Capital LLC, a New York hedge fund that focuses on
energy. “There’s headline risk ahead of us. The reaction to the
Israeli missile test is an example of what we will be seeing
until the Syria situation is resolved.”  Silver, soybeans and natural gas jumped more than 2 percent
to lead gains in 14 of 24 commodities in the S&P GSCI Index,
sending the gauge up 0.5 percent. Corn and wheat lost more than
1 percent for the biggest declines.  The  S&P 500  rebounded after a 3.1 percent decline in
August, the worst  monthly drop  since May 2012. The ISM
manufacturing index climbed to 55.7 in August from the prior
month’s reading of 55.4 and topped the median estimate of 54 in
a survey of economists. Fifty is the dividing line between
growth and contraction.  Market Leaders  Gauges of financial, consumer-discretionary and commodity
companies climbed more than 0.5 percent to help lead gains among
 10 industries  in the S&P 500 today. Telephone and utility stocks
fell the most as rising Treasury yields competed with their
dividends. Telephone and utility companies in the S&P 500 pay
more than 4 percent of their prices in divdiends, the highest
among the 10 main groups.  CBS Corp. jumped 4.7 percent after the broadcaster’s
programs returned to Time Warner Cable Inc. Microsoft slipped
4.6 percent after agreeing to buy  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s mobile-phone
business and license its patents for 5.44 billion euros ($7.2
billion). Verizon Communications Inc. dropped 2.9 percent after
agreeing to buy  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s 45 percent stake in  Verizon
Wireless  for $130 billion.  ‘Warn Others’  U.S. stocks pared gains earlier as Boehner, an  Ohio
Republican , said that use of chemical weapons requires a
response and only the U.S. has the capability to “warn others
around the world that this type of behavior is not going to be
tolerated.” Secretary of State  John Kerry  said that while Obama
is not asking the country to go to war, it’s “definitely in our
national interests” to respond to Syria.  Obama announced on Aug. 31 that he’d seek support from
Congress for a military strike in Syria. The decision came after
the president said previously that he had authority to order a
military mission in response to what his administration and the
French and U.K. governments say was the Syrian regime’s Aug. 21
chemical weapons attack on civilians. The president won
conditional support yesterday from Republican Senators  John
McCain  and  Lindsey Graham .  Investors in August pulled money from exchange-traded funds
at the fastest rate since January 2010, with withdrawals
reaching $17.7 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
from about 1,500 funds. The SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust, the largest
ETF for American equities, experienced $14 billion in outflows,
the data show.  August Retreat  Stocks fell in August amid concern the Fed will reduce its
monthly bond purchases and the U.S. will take military action
against Syria. Better-than-estimated corporate earnings and
monetary stimulus from the Fed have driven the S&P 500 up as
much as 153 percent from a 12-year low in 2009, with the gauge
closing at a record 1,709.67 on Aug. 2. It has retreated more
than 4 percent since.  The Fed will hold a policy meeting on Sept. 17-18 to decide
whether to slow the pace of its bond-buying program. Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  has said that the central bank may reduce its
monthly purchases if the employment outlook substantially
improves and the economy grows in line with forecasts.  Global stocks rose yesterday as data showed China’s
manufacturing index increased to a 16-month high in August,
while other gauges showed euro-area factory output expanded at a
faster pace than initially estimated in August. U.S. markets
were closed for the Labor Day holiday.  Options Strategies  Options strategists from JPMorgan Chase & Co. to Weeden &
Co. are predicting that U.S. equity volatility will extend its
 increase  in September after posting its biggest monthly advance
in more than a year.  JPMorgan said in an Aug. 29 note that volatility is likely
to increase in September and October, and recommended buying
puts on global stocks gauges including the S&P 500. Weeden told
investors to implement a bearish strategy using October
contracts on a security tracking the Russell 2000 Index. The
Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index has fallen every
September in years when volatility was below its historical
average at the start of the month, data since 1996 compiled by
Bloomberg show. The VIX rose 1 percent to 17.18 today.  European Stocks  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index closed 0.4 percent lower after
gaining 1.9 percent yesterday. Nokia climbed 34 percent after
Microsoft agreed to buy the company’s handset business and
license its patents for 5.44 billion euros ($7.2 billion).  Turkey’s Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index slid 2.3 percent
and the lira sank 1.7 percent versus the dollar. Dubai’s
benchmark gauge lost 3.7 percent, while indexes in  Abu Dhabi  and
Kuwait fell at least 1.7 percent.  India’s rupee and stocks plunged the most in Asia on
renewed concern about a credit-rating downgrade and as oil
surged.  Government bonds  fell. S&P reiterated today it sees more
than a one-in-three chance that India’s debt rating will be cut
within two years.  India’s S&P BSE Sensex slumped 3.4 percent and the rupee
weakened 2.6 percent versus the dollar. Elevated  oil prices 
raise costs for Asia’s third-largest economy, which imports
almost 80 percent of its energy requirements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  