-- Aussie at One-Week High as RBA Omits Easing-Scope Mention
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-09-03T06:40:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/aussie-rises-on-speculation-rba-to-hold-rate-asian-stock-gains.html
Australia ’s dollar climbed to a one-week high after the central bank left  interest rates  unchanged
at a record low and omitted mention of further scope to ease
monetary policy.  The Aussie earlier pared an advance after reports showed
retail sales grew less than predicted and the nation’s current-account deficit was wider than estimated. The  Reserve Bank  of
Australia kept borrowing costs at 2.5 percent, in line with the
forecasts of all 32 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. New
Zealand’s dollar gained as private data showed the country’s
commodity  export prices  rose.  “The main surprise was that the RBA didn’t reinsert the
definitive easing bias into this statement after stressing it in
the minutes of their August meeting,” said  Richard Grace , the
Sydney-based chief currency strategist and head of international
economics at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia . “The Aussie may
rally a little as a result.”  The Aussie rose 0.6 percent to 90.30 U.S. cents at 4:34
p.m. in Sydney, after climbing 0.9 percent yesterday. It touched
90.48, the most since Aug. 26. The currency gained 0.9 percent
to 89.94 yen after reaching 90.06, the most since Aug. 19. The
kiwi rose 0.2 percent to 78.27 U.S. cents after jumping 1.1
percent yesterday. It was up 0.5 percent to 77.95 yen.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index of stocks gained 1.4 percent
and the Shanghai Composite Index of Chinese equities added 1
percent as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. boosted its forecast for the
nation’s expansion in 2013. Australia sells more than 70 percent
of its merchandise exports to Asia, led by  China .  Swaps Pricing  “The Board will continue to assess the outlook and adjust
policy as needed to foster sustainable growth in demand and
inflation outcomes consistent with the target,” RBA Governor
 Glenn Stevens  said in a statement accompanying today’s decision.  The RBA has lowered rates by 2.25 percentage points since
November 2011. Swaps traders are predicting a 57 percent chance
that policy makers will lower borrowing costs again by March,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The Aussie is rallying due to a small language change, as
the market sees the removal of the scope line as a signal that
they are done,” said  Matthew Johnson , a Sydney-based interest-rate strategist at UBS AG. “It’s ironic as a higher Aussie
dollar makes a cut more likely.”  Retail  sales  climbed 0.1 percent in July, compared with the
median forecast for a 0.4 percent gain in a Bloomberg survey of
economists. A separate report showed the current-account deficit
widened to A$9.4 billion ($8.5 billion) in the second quarter,
more than the A$8.5 billion that economists had predicted.  Foreign Ownership  Foreign ownership of Australian  government securities  rose
last quarter to 69.1 percent from 68.3 percent in the first
three months of the year, according to statistics bureau data
today. International investors made net purchases of A$1.9
billion in long-term debt and reduced holdings of bills.  Australia’s  10-year bond yield  rose four basis points to
3.99 percent today while the three-year rate climbed six basis
points to 2.81 percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The  New Zealand dollar  gained versus 13 of its 16 most
traded peers as ANZ Bank New Zealand Ltd. said commodity export
prices rose 0.7 percent in August after a 0.6 percent gain the
previous month. The nation’s two-year  swap rate , a fixed payment
made to receive floating rates, rose one basis point to 3.46
percent.  Australia’s benchmark 10-year government  bond yield  climbed
for a second day, adding four basis points to 3.99 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  