-- Aussie, Kiwi Gain as China Manufacturing Index at 16-Month High
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-09-02T07:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/aussie-kiwi-gain-as-china-manufacturing-index-at-16-month-high.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars rallied from losses last week after Chinese government
data showed manufacturing reached a 16-month high, bolstering
the outlook for exports from both South Pacific nations.  The Aussie is set for its biggest advance since May versus
the yen after Australian  building approvals  rose more than twice
as fast as economists forecast. Gains were limited before the
 Reserve Bank  meets tomorrow amid speculation policy makers will
reiterate a willingness to cut  interest rates  already at a
record low. New Zealand’s dollar was set for the biggest climb
in five weeks as data showed the nation’s terms of trade rose.  “The Aussie dollar began the session on the front foot
given the  China  manufacturing data and we saw another leg up
after building approvals came in well above expectations,” said
Jim Vrondas, the Sydney-based chief currency and payment
strategist at OzForex Ltd. “It will struggle above 90 cents.”  Australia ’s dollar rose 0.9 percent to 89.83 U.S. cents as
of 5:28 p.m. in Sydney after touching 88.93 on Aug. 30, matching
the least since Aug. 5. It gained 1.8 percent to 88.97 yen. The
kiwi climbed 1.1 percent to 78.09 U.S. cents, poised for the
biggest gain since July 25, and jumped 2 percent to 77.36 yen,
set for the largest advance since April 8.  China’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index was at 51.0 in August,
the National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing said yesterday. HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics said today a final reading of their PMI for
China was 50.1, with readings above 50 indicating expansion.
China is the biggest export destination for Australia and New
Zealand.  Building Approvals  The Aussie rose for the first time in six days as a
statistics bureau report showed home building permits surged
10.8 percent in July, compared with the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey for a 4 percent advance. Company operating
profits fell 0.8 percent in the second quarter, missing
forecasts for 0.9 percent growth, separate data showed.  Swaps traders are pricing a 56 percent chance that the RBA
will lower its benchmark rate from 2.5 percent by year-end,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Markets are still focused on a rate cut in the short
term,” said Darryl Conroy, a Brisbane-based analyst at  Suncorp
Group Ltd. (SUN)  “Any bounce in the Aussie will be quite capped
because the market is focusing on some of the negatives.”  Australia’s 10-year bond yield rose six basis points to
3.96 percent and three-year rates climbed to 2.75 percent from
2.70 percent on Aug. 30.  New Zealand’s terms of trade, or export prices relative to
import prices, surged 4.9 percent in the second quarter,
according to today’s data. The index reached an 18-month high as
export prices rose by the most since the first quarter of 2011,
the report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  