-- Australia’s Abbott Committed to Selling Health Insurer Medibank
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-09-02T06:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/australia-s-abbott-committed-to-selling-health-insurer-medibank.html
A Liberal-National coalition
government will sell  Australia ’s largest health insurer,
 Medibank (MBK)  Private Ltd., if elected at the Sept. 7 poll,
opposition Leader Tony Abbott said.  “We’re committed to the privatization of Medibank
Private,” Abbott, who is on track to lead the coalition, to
victory told reporters in Canberra today. “We will put it into
the private sector at what is the best time for Commonwealth
taxpayers.”  State-owned Medibank had revenue of A$5.4 billion ($4.8
billion), comprehensive income of A$125.2 million and net assets
of A$1.6 billion in the year ended June 30, 2012, according to
the most recent annual report. The Australian Financial Review
in 2011 cited health industry analysts as valuing Medibank at as
much as A$5 billion. Nine analysts reached by Bloomberg News
today declined to put a valuation on the insurer.  Australia’s only listed health insurer,  Nib Holdings Ltd. (NHF) ,
reported net income of A$67.2 million on revenue of A$1.3
billion in the year ended June 30 and had a market
capitalization of A$944 million at the close of trading in
Sydney today.  The Liberal-National coalition government in 2007 appointed
Goldman Sachs JBWere Pty, ABN Amro Holding NV and  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  to sell Medibank through an initial public offering.
The transaction was called off after the Labor Party won the
election that year.  Labor is trailing in opinion polls ahead of the election.
The coalition leads Labor 54 percent to 46 percent on a two-party preferred basis, a Newspoll published today in the
Australian newspaper showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  