-- Banks to Increase Collateral on Swaps Trades Under Basel
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-09-02T10:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/banks-to-increase-collateral-on-swaps-trades-under-basel.html
Banks must back trades in the  $633
trillion  market for swaps and other over-the-counter derivatives
with additional collateral as global regulators seek to choke
off opportunities for excessive risk taking.  The plans jointly issued by two groups of international
standard-setters target swaps traded outside of clearinghouses
and would ensure lenders have safeguards in place when a trading
partner defaults. The regulators said they scaled back some of
the proposals to address bank concerns that the rules would
restrict lending.  Nations are seeking to toughen and align rules for over-the-counter derivatives, which became a target for oversight
after the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the
rescue of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , two of the largest
traders of credit-default swaps.  Systemically important firms “will have to exchange
initial and variation margin commensurate with the counterparty
risks,” the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and
International Organization of Securities Commissions said in an
e-mailed statement. The rules will be phased in over a four-year
period beginning in December 2015, they said.  Liquidity Crunch  Lenders including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)   warned  earlier this year that a provisional version of
the plans would cause a global liquidity crunch.  Changes were made in a bid to address banks’ concerns, the
Basel group said. Foreign exchange swaps and forwards contracts
that are physically settled will be exempt from the bulk of the
measures, as will be deals worth less than 50 million euros ($66
million).  Traders will also be permitted some limited scope to use
collateral they are given to back other trades, the Basel group
said.  Today’s rules are part of a broader push to toughen margin
requirements as two other groups of regulators last month
focused on limiting the way banks can recycle collateral.  The Financial Stability Board last week called for brokers
to face restrictions on using client assets as collateral for
other trades, while European Union regulators are weighing steps
to limit the number of times the same piece of collateral can be
passed on.  The posting of collateral is when a party to a trade hands
over assets to their counterparty as a guarantee that they will
not be left empty handed should the trader default on their
obligations.  Daily Exchange  Initial margin is collateral posted at the beginning of a
trade. Variation margin may be exchanged daily to offset risk
from incremental price movements.  Under the rules published today both parties to a trade
would be required to post initial and variation margin, once the
50 million euro threshold is breached.  The threshold, which concerns the “initial margin,” would
be measured against all the non-centrally cleared OTC derivative
trades between the two companies.  The rules would apply initially to the “most active and
most systemically important derivatives market participants,”
with their scope gradually expanding over the phase-in period.  “A broad array” of securities will be allowed to count as
collateral under the rules, “further reducing the liquidity
impact,” the standard setters said. Eligible securities include
cash, high-quality government and corporate debt, covered bonds,
equities and gold, according to a non-exhaustive list prepared
by the regulators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  