-- Bank of Philippine Islands CEO Mulls Takeovers: Southeast Asia
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2013-09-02T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/bank-of-philippine-islands-ceo-mulls-takeovers-southeast-asia.html
Bank of the Philippine Islands , the
nation’s third-largest by assets, would consider domestic
takeovers and will bolster investment banking services to raise
its position in  Southeast Asia .  The lender expects the country’s economic gains to spur
retail credit demand and borrowing by small and medium-sized
businesses, said Cezar Consing, who became president in April.
Owned by  Ayala Corp. (AC)  and  Singapore ’s  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) ,
the bank is the ninth-largest in emerging Asia-Pacific with $24
billion of  assets , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I’d like our investment banking unit to punch at its own
weight,” Consing, a former JPMorgan Chase & Co. banker, said on
Aug. 30 in Manila. “Our goal is to be relevant in a bigger
pond, and that bigger pond has got to be Southeast Asia. It
doesn’t mean we have to be outside, it means we have to be big
enough. If we’re going to make an acquisition, we have to make
an acquisition that will change the game.”  Consing’s expansion plans follow the collapse of merger
talks with  Philippine National Bank  in December, a deal that
would have created the nation’s largest lender by assets.
Philippine mergers and acquisitions are on pace to post the
biggest year since 2008 as the economy is set to grow more than
6 percent for a second straight year, Bloomberg data show.  BPI, the country’s biggest bank by market value, most
recently acquired ING Groep NV’s Philippine asset management
unit in 2011.  M&A Demand  Deals in the  Philippines  total $10.6 billion so far this
year, more than double all of 2012 and poised to match the $11.2
billion achieved in 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Equity underwriting in the country stood at $3.9
billion, already exceeding last year and heading for a second
straight annual increase, the data show.  In debt underwriting, BPI has slipped to 16th this year
from 10th in 2012, according to the data.  Consing, previously a partner at New York-based Rohatyn
Group, managing its private-equity business in  Asia , said
possible targets would fill gaps in its product offerings, add
to its customer base or improve his bank’s efficiency.  “Acquisition really depends on the valuation,” Charles Ang, an analyst at COL Financial Group, said in a phone
interview. “It can’t be done at all cost.”  Growing Economy  Shares (BPI)  of BPI have fallen 3.2 percent this year, compared
with a 4.3 percent jump in the Philippine Stock Exchange Index.  The bank’s  net income  rose 1.1 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, compared with a 44 percent gain in
the previous three months.  “In terms of profitability, BPI is an industry leader,”
Ang said. However, “with  interest rates  consistently going
lower in recent years, margin has been also been declining for
most banks. I think that is the challenge.”  The Philippines’s $250 billion  economy  expanded 7.5 percent
in the second quarter, matching  China ’s pace to remain one of
Asia’s best performers. Consing expects that growth to lift loan
demand as incomes rise. The Philippines’s per-capita gross
domestic product was $2,588 last year, according to World Bank
data.  Lending to small-and-medium enterprises is increasing at
about 15 percent a year, while housing loans are surging 20
percent, Teodoro Limcaoco, president of BPI Family Savings Bank,
said separately.  “If we sustain those kinds of growth rates, per-capita
income should go up and at some point it’s $3,000, $4,000, and a
much greater percent of your population is creditworthy,”
Consing said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in  Manila  at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  