-- Emerging-Market Exodus Undermining Debt Sales in Mexico
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-09-02T16:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/barclays-to-deutsche-bank-overwhelmed-by-fed-induced-rout.html
Even with Wall Street’s help,  Mexico 
is struggling to lure investors to its local-currency bonds as
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will curb stimulus sparks an
exodus from emerging markets.  Mexico’s sale of 25 billion pesos ($1.9 billion) of five-year notes last week attracted the weakest demand since the
government started using a group of banks in 2010 to help handle
sales of new benchmark bonds. The bid-to-cover ratio, a measure
of investor demand, was 1.02 times for the offering, which
included participation by firms including Grupo Financiero  BBVA
Bancomer  SA, Deutsche Bank AG and  Barclays Plc (BARC) , according to two
people with direct knowledge of the transaction who asked not to
be identified because they aren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Investors have yanked $44 billion from emerging-market bond
and stock funds since the end of May, according to data provider
EPFR Global, on concern the Fed will reduce its $85 billion of
monthly bond purchases as soon as this month. Yields on Mexican
notes jumped 0.1 percentage point last week, five times the
average in  emerging markets , data compiled by Bank of America
Corp. show.  “The context was extremely complicated, the mood around
the world,” Roberto Ivan Garcia Castellanos, a bond trader at
Casa de Bolsa Finamex SAB, which participated in the sale, said
by telephone from Guadalajara, Mexico. “It was among the worst
timing possible, in the middle of the selloff.”  ‘Bit Complicated’  Brandon Ashcraft, a Barclays spokesman, didn’t respond to a
phone call and e-mail seeking comment on demand for the sale,
nor did Deutsche Bank’s press office nor Rodolfo Benitez, a
spokesman for BBVA Bancomer.  “That particular day was a bit complicated,” Alejandro Diaz de Leon, Mexico’s head of public debt, said in a telephone
interview. “We noticed that particularly in a few foreign
intermediaries. In general, with respect to previous syndicated
sales, there was lower demand on the part of foreigners.”  He said a sale of 9 billion pesos of three-year bonds one
day earlier, which was carried out under the weekly auction plan
instead of the syndicate, was evidence that there still isn’t a
widespread weakening of demand for Mexican securities. Market
makers exercised an overallotment option on that sale to buy an
additional 2.25 billion pesos of bonds on top of the original
amount, according to Diaz de Leon.  Peso Plunge  The peso climbed 0.6 percent at 11 a.m. in Mexico City
after plunging last month the most among major Latin American
dollar counterparts, eroding dollar-based returns on local-currency  government bonds . Mexican bonds lost 4.5 percent in
August in dollar terms, according to Bank of America.  Foreign investors’ holdings of fixed-rated peso bonds have
dropped to 57 percent from 58 percent in early May, a 13-year
high, according to the central bank.  Guillermo Rodriguez , who helps oversee $6 billion in assets
at Corp. Actinver SAB, said speculation the U.S. may attack
 Syria  also crimped investor demand.  “There’s a lot of  risk aversion ,” Rodriguez said in a
telephone interview from Mexico City. “People would rather wait
and see what happens” with  interest rates .  Carlos Fritsch, strategist and president of Prognosis,
Economia, Finanzas e Inversiones SC, a Mexican economic research
company, said appetite for Mexican bonds will increase as
President Enrique Pena Nieto pushes through oil reforms that
boost growth and spark ratings upgrades.  ‘Rosy Scenario’  “Our base scenario is that there will be a reform,”
Fritsch said. “If that happens, you have a relatively rosy
scenario for Mexico.”  Finamex’s Garcia Castellanos said concern Pena Nieto may
encounter opposition to his bid to end the country’s 75-year oil
monopoly is also reducing demand for Mexican bonds.  Opposition politician  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , who was
the runner-up for the presidency in last year’s elections, has
called for supporters to rally in the capital this month.  “We thought the political road was going to be easier,”
Garcia Castellanos said. “We thought everything was pre-arranged, but now we’re seeing that it’s not going to be that
easy.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of Treasuries fell two basis points today
to 220 basis points, or 2.2 percentage points, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified index.  Mexico’s five-year credit default swaps, contracts that
protect holders of the nation’s debt from non-payment, rose two
basis points to 134 basis points, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  