-- Barclays Hires No. 1 Japan Equity Strategist Hajime Kitano
-- B y   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2013-09-02T06:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/barclays-hires-top-ranked-japan-equity-strategist-hajime-kitano.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  hired former  Morgan
Stanley (MS)   Japan  equity strategist Hajime Kitano to bolster
research in the world’s best-performing major stock market.  Kitano joined the U.K. bank in Tokyo today, Kazutoshi Ohkubo, head of equities at Barclays Securities Japan Ltd., said
in a phone interview. Kitano, who left Morgan Stanley in August
after about three months, was rated No. 1 equity strategist in
Japan this year by Institutional Investor magazine.  Barclays plans to hire about eight people for Japan
equities by the end of the year to boost sales and trading
operations, Ohkubo said in July. The London-based bank joins
Bank of America Corp. and UBS AG in bolstering Japan equity
staff after Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s stimulus efforts drove
the benchmark  Topix Index (TPX) ’s 30 percent gain this year.  “We’ve been expanding equity research in Japan with this
stocks rally,” Ohkubo said. “There should be a multiplier
effect having both talented analysts and a strategist to meet
strong demand from our customers.”  Before his brief stint at Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities
Co., Kitano spent seven years at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in Japan
from 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  His appointment fills a year-old vacancy at Barclays that
was left after strategist Fumiyuki Takahashi’s departure, Ohkubo
said. Barclays also hired former Deutsche Bank AG banker Jiro Mikami as a director of Japanese equity derivative products in
July, according to Ohkubo.  Job Cuts  The bank’s  Tokyo  hiring comes even as it executes plans
announced in February to eliminate 3,700 jobs worldwide this
year to reduce costs.  The Topix rose 1.1 percent at the close of trading in Tokyo
today. The gauge has climbed this year as Abe pushes to revive
the world’s third-largest economy with fiscal spending and
monetary easing.  Separately today, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said it named
Douglas Howland to head equity distribution for Japan, a new
post at its brokerage unit in the country. Howland previously
led capital markets operations in Japan, the New York-based bank
said in an e-mailed statement.  UBS,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, said in July it hired
seven Japan equity sales and trading staff. Bank of America’s
Merrill Lynch unit recruited six people for Japan equities, the
 U.S. Bank  said in a memo in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  