-- Batista’s OGX Soars as Rout Boosts Ibovespa Weighting: Rio Mover
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-09-02T20:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/batista-s-ogx-soars-as-rout-boosts-ibovespa-weighting-rio-mover.html
Eike Batista ’s OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA rose the most in five years, rebounding from a
record slump, as a surge in trading volume pushed up the crude
explorer’s weighting in  Brazil ’s main equity index.  OGX soared 33 percent to 40 centavos at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo, the biggest gain since its June 2008
initial public offering. The stock regained about half the
ground lost in the final half hour of  trading  on Aug. 30 when it
tumbled to a record low 30 centavos from 50 centavos.  Batista’s flagship company is the worst-performing major
stock in Brazil in the past six months, losing 87 percent of its
value, after a series of missed production targets, exacerbated
last month by the former billionaire reducing his stake and a
dispute with Petroliam Nasional Bhd. While the selloff saw OGX
removed from the  MSCI Brazil Index  today, the resulting increase
in trading volume is boosting the stock’s weighting in the
benchmark Ibovespa.  “Shares slumped on Friday as foreign investors massively
sold because OGX would not be part of the MSCI Brazil anymore,”
Sandro Fernandes, a trader at Geraldo Correa, said by phone from
Belo Horizonte, Brazil. “Today shares are rallying because some
funds needed to buy more stock as OGX’s weighting on the
Brazilian benchmark increased.”  Ibovespa Weighting  OGX has the third-highest weight in the Ibovespa at 5.48
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with 0.92 percent on Aug. 30, the data show.  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3)  is
considering excluding stocks trading for less than 1 real, or
penny stocks, from the Ibovespa, which is otherwise weighted
just by trading volume, according to a statement on the exchange
operator’s website.  The oil company’s press office in Rio de Janeiro declined
to comment on the Aug. 30 share decline in an e-mailed response
to questions.  OGX said last week Petronas has no right to delay buying
stakes in two Brazilian blocks for $850 million after the
Malaysian producer said the deal hinges on OGX undertaking a
debt restructuring. OGX will run out of cash this quarter if it
doesn’t receive the first installment of the Petronas payment,
Deutsche Bank said in Aug. 27.  The oil producer said last month that it hired Blackstone
Group LP to advise on a study of its capital structure as
Batista raises cash and sells company stakes and assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  