-- Belarus Seeks Arrest of Uralkali Co-Owner Kerimov, Belta Reports
-- B y   A l i a k s a n d r   K u d r y t s k i   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-09-02T12:12:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/belarus-seeks-arrest-of-uralkali-co-owner-kerimov-belta-reports.html
Belarus, which last week detained
the chief of OAO Uralkali, has started a criminal investigation
into billionaire Suleiman Kerimov, an investor in the world’s
largest potash producer, the state-run news agency Belta said.  Kerimov is wanted for organizing the crime of abuse of
office, which carries a maximum punishment of 10 years’
imprisonment, Belta said, citing the Belarusian Investigative
Committee. Vladislav Baumgertner, chief executive officer of
Berezniki, Russia-based Uralkali, was arrested in Minsk on Aug.
26 for abuse of office.  Baumgertner was held after traveling to Belarus for talks
at the invitation of Belarusian Prime Minister Mikhail Myasnikovich. The CEO, who is also chairman of Belarus Potash
Co., Uralkali’s trading partnership with state-run Belaruskali,
said July 30 that he was dissolving the venture because Belarus
had “violated” their agreement by authorizing Belaruskali to
export some of its soil nutrient independent of Belarus Potash.  Belarus is seeking Kerimov’s arrest through Interpol and
also expects to cooperate with the Russian prosecutor general’s
office, Belta said. Anton Averin, a Moscow-based spokesman for
Kerimov’s Nafta Moskva holding company, declined to comment.
Pavel Traulko, a spokesman for Belarus’s Investigative
Committee, didn’t return calls seeking additional comment.  Kerimov, 47, is a member of the Russian senate and owns a
21.75 percent stake in Uralkali valued at about $3 billion. He
has built his fortune by investing in industries including real
estate and banking.  Uralkali has denied that Baumgertner committed any offense
and has called for his release. The company said Aug. 30 it was
“implementing all necessary measures” to have Baumgertner
freed. A Russian government official said Aug. 30 the CEO’s
detention was expected to end in “the coming days.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aliaksandr Kudrytski in Minsk, Belarus at 
 akudrytski@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  