-- Billionaire Mikitani’s Rakuten to Buy Video Service Provider
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2013-09-03T03:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/billionaire-mikitani-s-rakuten-to-acquire-video-service-provider.html
Rakuten Inc. (4755) , controlled by
billionaire Hiroshi Mikitani, said it agreed to buy streaming
video service provider Viki Inc. as the Japanese Internet
retailer seeks to expand into new digital offerings.  The companies see opportunities for Viki to boost revenue
by selling more advertising against its video content, they said
in a statement yesterday, without giving the value of the deal.
Viki has offices in  San Francisco ,  Singapore ,  Seoul  and  Tokyo .  Rakuten in the past five years has announced more than $1.6
billion worth of purchases including stakes in social network
operator Pinterest Inc. and digital book seller Kobo Inc. as
part of its strategy to compete with rivals such as  Amazon (AMZN) .com
Inc. Mikitani, who is also the chief executive officer of
Rakuten, in an October interview said the company aims to have
70 percent of sales transactions overseas by as early as 2020.  The acquisition helps Rakuten in its goal to gain more
visibility and reach overseas users, Hiroshi Naya, an analyst at
Ichiyoshi Research, said by phone today.  ’’As a comparison with Amazon, in foreign countries,
Rakuten is too small to compete with Amazon,’’ said Naya.
“However, it aims to expand and the acquisition is one of its
steps.”  Rakuten rose 0.3 percent to 1,196 yen as of 12:31 p.m. in
Tokyo trading. The broader Topix index jumped 2.5 percent.  Digital Media  Amazon has also invested in building out its digital media
business, which delivers books, music and shows to its Kindle
hand-held devices. In September 2012 it reached a deal with pay-television channel Epix to offer films such as “The Hunger
Games” on the Amazon Prime Instant Video service.  Rakuten last year completed the  acquisition  of Canada-based
e-reader seller Kobo for $315 million.  The content business “is close to digital books, and has
something common in marketing,” said Masakazu Itoi, an analyst
at Tokyo-based TIW Inc.  Technology publication AllThingsD earlier said on its
website that Rakuten was acquiring the Viki video site for $200
million. Naoki Mizushima, a spokesman for Tokyo-based Rakuten,
declined to comment on the acquisition price.  Rakuten’s purchases include online businesses including
U.S. retailer Buy.com Inc., French electronics seller
PriceMinister S.A. and Brazil’s Ikeda. Mikitani’s net worth is
estimated at $7.1 billion, according to Bloomberg Billionaires
Index.  The company’s flagship shopping portal, Rakuten Ichiba,
connects merchants to customers shopping for products such as
toys, electronics and pajamas. Its English-language website also
offers Japanese goods to overseas customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anjali Cordeiro in  Hong Kong  at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  