-- Brazil Real Rises on Tombini’s Comment on Volatility
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-09-02T21:17:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/brazilian-real-rises-as-tombini-cites-tools-to-reduce-volatility.html
Brazil ’s real strengthened for the
first time in three days after central bank president Alexandre Tombini said he is ready to provide liquidity as needed to
reduce volatility.  The currency rose 0.3 percent to 2.3774 per  U.S. dollar .
Swap rates due in January 2015 declined two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 10.51 percent.  Brazil has a “cushion” of more than $370 billion in
international reserves allowing it to provide a hedge to the
market, Tombini said at an event Aug. 31. The central bank sold
foreign-exchange swap contracts worth $1.49 billion today to
support the real in two auctions, one of which was in addition
to the $60 billion intervention program.  “The central bank is doing an extra swap auction, and
Tombini is playing his part” to help stem the real’s decline,
 Francisco Carvalho , currency director at Liquidez Dtvm., said in
a telephone interview from Sao Paulo.  The real has fallen 11 percent in the past three months,
the worst performance among 16 major dollar counterparts tracked
by Bloomberg. The currency’s historical three-month volatility
of 17 percent is the highest among major currencies.  Policy makers voted unanimously to lift the  target lending
rate  to 9 percent last week as forecast by swaps traders in the
third straight increase of 50 basis points. The statement
accompanying the decision said the move will help “put
inflation on a decline and assure that this trend will persist
next year.” The statement was almost identical to the one
issued July 10.  Monetary Policy  Brazil has raised its benchmark lending rate by 1.75
percentage points since April from a record low 7.25 percent,
more than any other central bank tracked by Bloomberg.  Annual inflation slowed to 6.15 percent in the month
through mid-August after breaching the 6.5 percent upper limit
of the central bank’s target range earlier this year.  Gross domestic product expanded 1.5 percent in the second
quarter from the prior three months, the national statistics
agency said Aug. 30. The increase was the biggest since the
first quarter of 2010 and exceeded all of the forecasts of 44
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  