-- China Rebound Signaled in Rising Manufacturing Gauges: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-02T09:06:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/china-rebound-signaled-in-rising-manufacturing-gauges-economy.html
China ’s manufacturing strengthened
in August, with one index posting its biggest jump in three
years, as improving demand abroad and at home underpins a
recovery in the world’s second-largest economy.  An official  Purchasing Managers ’ Index jumped more than
estimated to a 16-month high of 51.0, a government report showed
yesterday in Beijing. A separate PMI released today by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics advanced to 50.1 last month
from 47.7 in July, the largest gain since 2010. Readings above
50 signal expansion.  Asian stocks, the Australian dollar and copper rose after
the Chinese data. Strengthening economies in the U.S. and  Europe 
are poised to help sustain export demand in coming months, while
confidence within China is also picking up after the government
indicated it will defend the year’s growth goal and an
interbank-market cash crunch eased.  “The recovery is being driven primarily by domestic demand
but international demand is picking up too as we can see from
the jump in new export orders,” said Lu Ting, head of  Greater
China  economics at Bank of America Corp. in Hong Kong, referring
to a sub-index of the official PMI. “This will surely boost
markets’ confidence in China’s recovery amid the turmoil in some
 emerging markets .”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks increased 0.6 percent
as of 5:49 p.m. in  Tokyo .  The National Bureau of Statistics today lowered its
estimate of growth last year, saying  China’s economy  expanded
7.7 percent instead of 7.8 percent, with services accounting for
most of the revision. Either rate would be the slowest pace
since 1999.  Orders Jump  The official PMI figure from the statistics bureau and
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing compared with the
50.6 median estimate of 31 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey
and July’s 50.3 level. Estimates ranged from 50.4 to 52. The
preliminary reading of HSBC’s index released Aug. 22 was 50.1,
while the median estimate of 13 analysts was for a 50.2 final
level.  “Growth in China’s manufacturing sector has started to
stabilize on the back of a modest rebound of new orders and
output,”  Qu Hongbin , HSBC’s chief China economist, said in a
statement. “We expect some upside surprises to China’s growth
in the coming months.”  A separate report from SouFun Holdings Ltd. showed China’s
new home prices jumped in August by the most since December amid
a recovery in land sales and some easing of policies by local
governments.  Risk Mitigated  JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised its estimate for China’s third-quarter economic growth to 7.6 percent from 7.4 percent and its
projection for the final three months of the year to 7.5 percent
from 7 percent, Hong Kong-based chief China economist  Zhu Haibin 
said in a report yesterday. “Economic conditions are improving
and the downside risk to economic growth has been mitigated in
the near term,” Zhu said.  Deutsche Bank AG lifted its third-quarter estimate to 7.7
percent from 7.5 percent, according to an Aug. 22 note. Credit
Suisse Group AG last week increased its 2013 forecast to 7.6
percent from 7.4 percent.  China’s GDP growth slowed to 7.5 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, extending the longest streak of
sub-8 percent expansion in at least two decades and putting the
government at risk of missing its 2013 goal of 7.5 percent. Li
signaled in July he won’t tolerate a slowdown beyond a 7 percent
bottom line.  A sub-index of new orders in yesterday’s report rose to
52.4, the highest level since April 2012, and a gauge of input
prices was the highest since February.  ‘Good Tracker’  “Input prices are usually a good tracker of the strength
of aggregate demand relative to supply so the reading suggests
demand has strengthened notably,” said Helen Qiao, chief
Greater China economist at Morgan Stanley in  Hong Kong .
“Sector-specific measures adopted recently are starting to show
an impact but it also implies a lower probability for high-profile easing.”  Li has avoided a broad-based stimulus to reverse slowing
growth, instead rolling out targeted measures that include tax
cuts, boosting infrastructure spending including on railways,
and supporting strategic industries such as renewable energy.  China’s top solar-panel makers are returning to
profitability following two years of losses as higher demand and
prices drive up margins. JinkoSolar Holding Co. last month
reported second-quarter net income of $8 million, its first
profit since the third quarter of 2011, as sales jumped 43
percent from a year earlier.  Export Orders  China’s export outlook improved, with a gauge of new
 overseas orders  in yesterday’s report rising above 50 for the
first time since March. While that contrasts with the
contraction indicated in the export index of HSBC’s PMI, it
tallies with trade reports from Asian economies and signs of
stronger growth in the U.S. and Europe.  South Korea ’s  exports  jumped 7.7 percent in August from a
year earlier, the government said yesterday, the biggest gain
since January.  The  U.S. economy  expanded more than analysts estimated in
the second quarter, an Aug. 29 Commerce Department report showed.
Economic confidence in the euro area rose to a two-year high,
according to data last week.  Elsewhere in the world today, an HSBC-Markit index showed
South Korean manufacturing contracted for a third month in
August, while a similar gauge for  India  was below 50 for the
first time since 2009. Markit PMI indexes for the U.K. and  Italy 
showed faster expansions last month.  Japan Spending  Japan  may revise second-quarter gross domestic product
growth up after data today showed  capital spending  in the period
was stronger than analysts estimated. Thailand and  Indonesia 
both reported August inflation that was slower than estimated,
while Indonesia said July exports fell at a faster rate than in
the previous month.  China’s official PMI indicates the impact of the
government’s crackdown on non-bank financing and its efforts to
rein in credit growth have “so far been modest,” said  Louis Kuijs , chief China economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in
Hong Kong.  Interest rates  in China’s interbank market surged to record
highs in June as the central bank allowed a cash crunch in order
to squeeze speculative lending and curb shadow banking.
 Aggregate financing , the broadest measure of new credit that
includes banks’ off-balance-sheet loans, corporate bond and
stock issues, fell to a 21-month low in July.  While the campaign will help ease the risks of a financial
crisis, it may also curb economic expansion as companies find it
harder to get funding.  “The current rebound in growth is still benefiting from
loose monetary and credit conditions earlier this year,” said
Ding Shuang, senior China economist at Citigroup Inc. in Hong
Kong. “But since May, conditions have tightened considerably
and that will weigh on investment and growth toward the end of
the year.”  --Shen Hu, Nerys Avery. With assistance from Ailing Tan in
 Singapore  and James Mayger in Tokyo. Editors: Scott Lanman, Rina Chandran  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Shen Hu in Beijing at 
 hshen33@bloomberg.net 
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  