-- China Life in Funds Management Venture With AMP Capital
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-09-02T02:58:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/china-life-in-funds-management-joint-venture-with-amp-capital.html
China Life Insurance Co. (2628) , the
nation’s largest insurer, and a unit of  Australia ’s  AMP Ltd. (AMP) 
formed a funds management joint venture targeting Chinese retail
and institutional investors.  AMP Capital, which managed A$130 billion ($116 billion) as
at March 31, will invest A$15 million for a 15 percent stake in
China Life AMP Asset Management Co., Anthony Fasso,
international head of AMP Capital’s global clients division,
said in a telephone interview from  Melbourne  today.  The value of assets managed by Chinese mutual funds is
expected to reach A$800 billion in 2013 and touch A$1.5 trillion
by 2017, AMP said in a statement through the stock exchange
today. The joint venture takes advantage of regulations that
came into effect June 21 that allow insurance companies in  China 
to start mutual funds for retail and institutional investors,
AMP said.  “A funds management joint venture in China is a
strategically significant move for AMP, giving us direct access
to the world’s second-largest and fastest-growing major
economy,” AMP Chief Executive Officer Craig Dunn said in
today’s statement.  The joint venture, which has received approval from the
China Insurance Regulatory Commission,  will be China Life’s
first in mainland China with a foreign partner in funds
management, AMP said. It expects to introduce the first product
in China in about six months after it gains the approval of
China Securities Regulatory Commission, Fasso said.  Technical Support  “AMP’s support will be technical in nature,” he said.
“Technical support around product development, governance, risk
and investment management processes.”  AMP has had a presence in China since 1997 and worked with
China Life for almost eight years. The two entered into a
memorandum of understanding to explore partnerships in funds
management and pensions in 2009.  A unit of  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306)  owns a 15
percent stake in AMP Capital. It agreed to buy the stake in 2011
and to sell its products in  Japan , the world’s second-biggest
savings market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  