-- China to Withstand Emerging Stocks Rout After QE, BofA’s Lu Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-02T04:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/china-to-withstand-emerging-stocks-rout-after-qe-bofa-s-lu-says.html
China, the best-performing Asian
stock market last month, will weather the tapering of U.S.
stimulus that has triggered routs in other emerging-market
equities, according to a  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  report.  The world’s second-largest economy has low foreign debt,
“huge” foreign exchange reserves, a “sustained” current
account surplus and high savings that shield it from capital
outflows, wrote Lu Ting, a Hong Kong-based economist at Bank of
America, ranked first for Asia research in 2011 by Institutional
Investor magazine. The government may postpone widening a
trading band for the  yuan  and slow the pace of removing  capital
controls  to ensure economic and financial stability, said Lu.  Foreign investors sold a net $2.2 billion of Thai,
Indonesian and Philippine shares last month amid signs of
slowing regional economic growth and speculation that the
 Federal Reserve  will soon cut stimulus. Minutes of the Fed’s
July meeting released on Aug. 21 showed policy makers were
“broadly comfortable” with Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to
taper purchases this year if the economy strengthens, with a few
saying a reduction may be needed soon.  China’s stocks have rallied over the past month on signs
economic growth is stabilizing. Growth in industrial output and
money supply accelerated in July, while an official purchasing
mangers’ index released yesterday showed manufacturing rose to a
16-month high in August.  The Shanghai Composite Index jumped 5.3 percent in August,
compared with losses ranging from 8.5 percent to 9.1 percent for
benchmark indexes in Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines.  “The weakness in some emerging markets could convince
perpetual China bears to revisit the case of China by focusing
on some important factors” such as the current account and
savings rates, Lu wrote in today’s report. “China could even
gain to some extent from the U.S. QE tapering.”  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan,  Michael Patterson   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  