-- China’s August Home Prices Rise Amid Land Sales, SouFun Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-02T01:52:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/china-s-august-home-prices-rise-amid-land-sales-soufun-says.html
China’s new  home prices  jumped in
August by the most since December amid a recovery in land sales
and some easing of policies by local governments,  SouFun
Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)  said.  Prices surged 8.6 percent last month from a year earlier,
to 10,442 yuan ($1,706) per square meter (10.76 square feet),
SouFun said in an e-mailed statement after a survey of 100
cities. Year-on-year prices began rising in December, when they
climbed 0.03 percent after a 0.46 percent drop in November.  China will seek stable and healthy development of the real
estate market, the government said after a meeting led by
President Xi Jinping in July, prompting speculation that it may
relax property curbs. Former Premier  Wen Jiabao  in March stepped
up a three-year campaign to cool home prices, ordering the
central bank to raise down-payment requirements for second
mortgages in cities with excessive cost gains.  “Buyers are expecting home prices to rise further after
seeing a series of land sold at record prices, while the
government didn’t take much action on this,” Alan Jin, a Hong
Kong-based property analyst at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd.,
said.  Home prices may rise more in September and October, the
traditional peak property sales season, Jin said.  Record Price  Beijing sold a 75,360-square-meter luxury residential land
parcel on July 23 for a record price of 2.36 billion yuan,
according to realtor Bacic & 5i5j Group. Shanghai on July 3 sold
the most expensive plot in the city this year, a 79,500-square-meter site, for 4.9 billion  yuan  to developers including China
Vanke Co.  Some buyers, who had waited expecting prices to fall,
entered the market recently because some cities started easing
property policies, SouFun, the nation’s biggest real estate
website owner, said in the statement.  China is facing “relatively large” pressure for property
prices to rebound, the official People’s Daily newspaper
reported on its microblog on Aug. 28, citing the National
Development and Reform Commission’s Chairman Xu Shaoshi.  Prices in the country’s 10 major cities rose 12 percent in
August from last year, SouFun said. Home values in the southern
business hub of Guangzhou soared 24 percent from last year,
while in the capital Beijing they jumped 22 percent, it said.  Some smaller cities have already started easing some of the
policies designed to restrain price gains. The eastern city of
Wenzhou is “fine tuning” its home purchase restrictions by
allowing second-home purchases by some local residents, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported on Aug. 15, citing a local
housing bureau official. Yancheng in Jiangsu province suspended
limits on housing prices as the supply of homes increased, the
official People’s Daily newspaper reported on July 23.  The eastern city of Wuhu in Anhui province led month-on-month declines among the 100 cities in the SouFun survey,
falling 2.3 percent from July.  China ’s home prices rose 0.92 percent in August from July,
compared with a 0.87 monthly gain last month, SouFun said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  