-- Most Chinese Stocks Rise After Manufacturing Growth Accelerates
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-09-02T07:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/china-s-stock-index-futures-rise-after-manufacturing-data-gains.html
Most Chinese stocks rose after an
official report showed manufacturing strengthened last month.
Machinery companies rallied, while Kweichow Moutai Co. plunged
the most in seven years after reporting slowing profit growth.  Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science and Technology Co. and Sany
Heavy Industry Co. surged more than 5 percent. Kweichow Moutai,
the nation’s biggest liquor maker by market value, plunged 10
percent after reporting the slowest profit growth for a six-month period since 2009. Everbright Securities Co. slumped 8.5
percent after it drew a record penalty and two executives quit.  About five stocks rose for every four that fell on the
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , which was little changed at 2,098.45
at the close. The CSI 300 Index added 0.3 percent to 2,320.34.
The government’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index climbed to a 16-month high of 51 in August, up from the previous month’s 50.3.  “The recent economic data has been good,” said Mao Sheng,
an analyst for Huaxi Securities Co. in Chengdu. Moutai slumped
because “its first-half earnings were below expectations.”  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  jumped 2.1 percent.
The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index slid 0.7 percent in  New
York . Trading volumes in the Shanghai index were 40 percent
higher than the 30-day average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It’s valued at 8.4 times its projected 12-month
earnings, compared with the five-year average of 12.6 times,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Shanghai  index rallied 5.3 percent last month, the
biggest gain among benchmark indexes in  Asia , as reports ranging
from industrial production to money supply signaled the economy
is stabilizing. The positive economic data overshadowed
Everbright Securities’s Aug. 16 trading error that sparked the
biggest intraday swing for stocks since 2009.  PMI Report  China’s economy  is strengthening after a two-quarter
slowdown, as new factory orders jumped and overseas demand
rebounded. The official PMI figure compared with the 50.6 median
estimate of 31 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey. A separate
manufacturing PMI released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics rose to 50.1 last month from 47.7 in July, the biggest
gain in three years and the first reading above 50 since April.  Improvement in manufacturing may bolster confidence that
the economy is responding to Premier  Li Keqiang ’s policies to
support growth amid a crackdown on shadow banking aimed at
curbing financial risks. JPMorgan Chase & Co. yesterday joined
Deutsche Bank AG and Credit Suisse Group AG in raising estimates
for an increase in gross domestic product, citing strength in
infrastructure and real-estate, and a pickup in exports.  Zoomlion,  China ’s second-largest maker of construction
equipment, jumped 8.1 percent to 5.74 yuan after falling 42
percent this year through yesterday. Bigger rival Sany Heavy
climbed 5.3 percent to 7.60 yuan. The stock slumped 32 percent
this year through yesterday.  Stocks Rotation  “There’s expectation there will be more investment in
machinery in the second half and the industry is further boosted
by the PMI data too,” Han Weiqi, Analyst at Capital Securities
Corp, said by phone today. Machinery stocks “had fallen a lot
this year and now it’s their turn for a stocks rotation.”  A gauge of  consumer-staples  producers in the CSI 300 slid
1.5 percent, the most among 10 industry groups. Moutai dropped
10 percent to 151.92  yuan . Its first-half net income rose by 3.6
percent to 7.25 billion yuan, the slowest profit growth since
the second half of 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That trailed Capital Securities’ estimate for 10
percent growth, according to Liu Hui, an analyst at the
brokerage. Wuliangye Yibin Co., the second-biggest baijiu maker,
dropped 5.4 percent to 18.33 yuan.  Graft Probe  “First-half earnings were much lower than expectations,”
Liu said by phone from Shanghai. “With strict controls on
government purchases of expensive liquor, they are not going to
get a boost in sales for the second half of the year. Earnings
will remain weak.”  China’s new party leadership pledged in December to reduce
lavish receptions and live more frugally. President  Xi Jinping 
had warned that unless corruption is reduced at all levels of
government, social unrest may rise and lead to the party’s
demise.  Jiang Jiemin , head of the State-Owned Assets Supervision
and Administration Commission, is under investigation for
alleged “serious disciplinary violations,” the Ministry of
Supervision said yesterday. He is also the former chairman of
state-owned China National Petroleum Corp., the country’s
biggest oil producer. Four officials at CNPC and its unit,
PetroChina Co., were removed from their posts as part of
investigations by China’s graft watchdog last week.  Everbright Plunges  Everbright Securities slumped 0.86 yuan to 9.21 yuan, a
record low. Assistant President Yang Chizhong and Board
Secretary Mei Jian tendered letters of resignation to the board
on Aug. 31, according to two company  statements . The broker was
fined a total of 523 million yuan ($85 million) after an
investigation into 23.4 billion yuan of erroneous buy orders
found it traded on inside information, the China Securities
Regulatory Commission said Aug. 31.  China, the best-performing Asian stock market last month,
will weather the tapering of U.S. stimulus that has triggered
routs in other emerging-market equities, according to a Bank of
America Corp. report.  The world’s second-largest economy has low foreign debt,
“huge” foreign exchange reserves, a “sustained” current
account surplus and high savings that shield it from capital
outflows, wrote Lu Ting, a Hong Kong-based economist at Bank of
America.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  