-- Investor Coastal Capital Seeks Billabong Board Shakeup
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-09-02T10:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/coastal-capital-wants-billabong-board-shakeup-as-altamont-waits.html
Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) , the
Australian surfwear company that’s fielded five takeover and
refinancing offers since February 2012, said its fourth-largest
shareholder is seeking a board shakeup. The stock surged.  Coastal Capital International Ltd., with a  5 percent stake 
in the business, wants to appoint directors and have all other
board members removed except founder Gordon Merchant and his
friend Colette Paull, the  Gold Coast , Australia-based company
said in a statement. The  stock  rose 14 percent to close at 48.5
Australian cents in Sydney, its biggest gain in two weeks.  The plan is a challenge to Altamont  Capital Partners , a
fund which has two representatives on Billabong’s seven-person
board and leads a group providing a $294 million bridging loan
to the company as part of a refinancing plan. Billabong’s losses
tripled to A$860 million ($771 million) and its namesake brand
was valued at zero in annual results announced last week.  “The deal that Altamont is offering is very, very heavily
weighted in their favor,” Evan Lucas, a market strategist at IG
Markets in  Melbourne , said by phone, referring to the investment
group. “As 5 percent shareholders, Coastal Capital are
certainly entitled to ask if the board has been operating in the
interests of shareholders.”  Separate Plan  Billabong is also studying a separate refinancing plan from
a group including Oaktree Capital Management LP and Centerbridge
Partners LP, which the group says would save as much as A$143
million in interest over five years.  Coastal Capital, whose managing partners Vlad Artamonov and
Todd Plutsky are  board members  of power station company  Redbank
Energy Ltd. (AEJ) , has also demanded a shareholder meeting to vote on
resolutions including an amendment to Billabong’s constitution
so that future debt or equity financing plans are subject to a
shareholder vote. Artamonov didn’t respond to an e-mail sent
outside of work hours.  A notice to call the meeting must be issued within three
weeks, according to Billabong spokesman Chris Fogarty.  The Coastal Capital action isn’t expected to “cause any
delay or deferral of the company’s process to complete the long
term financing,” the surfwear company said in the statement
today.  The company’s board and chairman Ian Pollard “will act
within their fiduciary duties and are fully evaluating both
proposals appropriately,” Fogarty said, referring to the
Altamont and Oaktree-Centerbridge refinancing plans.  Altamont’s offer is “in the best interests of the company,
its shareholders, its employees and all other stakeholders,”
Altamont said in an e-mailed statement today.  Billabong,  Australia ’s largest surfwear company, has been
been fielding takeover or refinancing proposals for all but five
weeks of the time since Launa Inman took over as chief executive
officer in May 2012. Inman stepped down last month and the
company appointed Peter Myers as acting CEO until discussions
about former Oakley Inc. chairman Scott Olivet assuming the role
are finalized.  The business spent A$23 million on consulting and banking
costs in relation to its takeover and refinancing proposals,
greater than the value of its earnings before interest and tax.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  