-- Cocoa Falls as Investors May Sell on African Rains; Coffee Drops
-- B y   A l e x   P a s h l e y   a n d   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-09-02T10:22:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/cocoa-falls-as-investors-may-sell-on-african-rains-coffee-drops.html
Cocoa declined in  London  for a third
day on speculation money managers may be holding record bets on
rising prices, leaving the market ripe for a selloff just as
rains return to West Africa. Robusta coffee retreated.  Money managers held the biggest bets on higher prices in 5
1/2 years in the week ended Aug. 27, U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data compiled by Bloomberg show. In London,
NYSE Liffe will report investor holdings later today. West
Africa was forecast to get rain this weekend, potentially easing
dryness that threatened to reduce the crop.  “Speculators are very long and whether their combined
position in London and New York will be a fresh record or not,
it does not really matter,” Eric Sivry, head of agricultural
options brokerage at Marex Spectron in London, said by e-mail
today. “Their position will probably be near the previous
number, which is high enough. This combined with returning rain
in West Africa is helping push the market lower.”  Cocoa for delivery in December slid 0.9 percent to 1,621
pounds ($2,526) a metric ton by 11:14 a.m. on NYSE Liffe in
London. ICE Futures U.S., where arabica coffee, raw sugar and
dollar-denominated cocoa trade, is closed today for the Labor
Day holiday.  Investors were net-long 54,382 futures and options in
London in the week ended Aug. 20, the most since September 2012,
NYSE Liffe data showed. In  New York , money managers boosted
their bets on higher prices in New York to 58,236 futures and
options contracts by Aug. 27, the most since February 2008, CFTC
data showed. Cocoa areas in top producers Ivory Coast and Ghana
were set to get the most rain since June this weekend, Commodity
Weather Group Inc., in Bethesda,  Maryland , said on Aug. 29.  Robusta coffee for November delivery declined 0.5 percent
to $1,770 a ton on NYSE Liffe. White sugar for delivery in
October rose 0.2 percent to $479 a ton in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Pashley in London at 
 apashley@bloomberg.net ;
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  