-- Coeure Says ECB OMT Won’t ‘Indiscriminately’ Cut Spreads
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-09-02T11:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/coeure-says-ecb-omt-won-t-indiscriminately-cut-spreads.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Benoit Coeure said the Outright Monetary
Transactions bond-buying program won’t be used to reduce the
cost of a country’s debt below its true level.  “OMT would never be used to indiscriminately push down
government bond spreads,” Coeure said in a speech in Berlin
today. “Spreads should continue to reflect the underlying
country-specific economic fundamentals, fiscal positions and
market risk perceptions.”  The Frankfurt-based ECB announced the unprecedented bond
plan a year ago as bets that the euro area would break apart
multiplied. While the legality of the program is under scrutiny
at  Germany ’s highest court, the calming of financial markets
that OMT produced in the past 12 months has helped the 17-nation
currency union emerge from its longest-ever recession.  “Fears of a possible euro-area breakup have receded and
impairments to the transmission mechanism have been partly
reduced,” Coeure said.  Opposition to the OMT program, which pledges potentially
unlimited purchases of secondary-market debt from countries that
sign up to economic reforms, has focused on whether it
contravenes a European ban on the financing of governments by
the central bank. Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann has
publicly opposed it, saying it is tantamount to monetary state
financing.  Court Ruling   “OMT does not correspond to the harmful scenario that
motivated the monetary financing prohibition,” Coeure said.
“The aim of OMTs is the exact opposite: A deterioration of
fundamentals would induce the ECB to lower or even stop OMT
intervention.”  Germany’s top court will likely rule on whether the OMT
contravenes the nation’s constitution after federal elections
scheduled for Sept. 22.  Coeure said that any use of the as-yet-untested OMT program
will depend on it being in line with the central bank’s outlook
for inflation.  “For the Governing Council of the ECB, there is only one
single deciding criterion, and that is the maintenance of  price
stability  in the euro area,” he said. “This overarching
criterion has shaped the design of OMTs, and it will decide over
its potential activation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Black  in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  