-- Copper Rises Most in Three Weeks on China Manufacturing Growth
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-09-02T16:26:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/copper-rises-most-in-three-weeks-on-china-manufacturing-growth.html
Copper rose the most in three weeks
in  London  after reports showed manufacturing strengthened last
month in  China , the world’s biggest consumer of the metal.  An official manufacturing gauge reached a 16-month high of
51 and a separate measure from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics jumped the most in three years to 50.1. Readings above
50 indicate expansion. Prices also climbed after Bank of America
Merrill Lynch said inventories of copper held in Chinese bonded
warehouses plunged.  “Manufacturing data out of China has proven supportive to
base metals,” RBC Capital Markets Ltd. said in a report today.  Copper for delivery in three months gained 2 percent to
$7,241 a metric ton by 5:19 p.m. on the London Metal Exchange.
Prices rose as much as 2.5 percent, the most since Aug. 8.
Copper for delivery in December added 2 percent to $3.2965 a
pound on the Comex in  New York , where floor trading is closed
today for the Labor Day holiday.  Holdings of copper in bonded warehouses, which aren’t
officially reported, slid to 350,000 tons from 1.1 million tons
about a year ago, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said. Those
comments were “supportive,” according to RBC.  Copper stockpiles monitored by the LME rose for a third
session to 589,750 tons, daily exchange figures showed. Orders
to remove the metal from warehouses were little changed at
284,200 tons.  Money managers reduced their net-long  position , or wager on
higher copper prices, by 9.1 percent to 13,043 Comex futures and
options contracts in the week ended Aug. 27, U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data showed. They stayed bullish for
a third week after five straight months of bearish bets.  Expanding Chinese manufacturing may reinforce an outlook
that the economy is responding to Premier  Li Keqiang ’s policies
to support growth. JPMorgan Chase & Co. yesterday raised
estimates for Chinese economic growth this quarter and next,
citing continued strength in infrastructure and real estate as
well as a pickup in exports.  Aluminum, lead, tin and zinc gained in London. Nickel fell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  