-- Cost Makes Chemicals WMD of Choice for Shrinking Group of Rogues
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   M e h u l   S r i v a s t a v a
-- 2013-09-02T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/cost-makes-chemicals-wmd-of-choice-for-shrinking-group-of-rogues.html
Syria , accused of launching a
chemical attack against its own people last month, is one of a
shrinking group of nations to retain a form of weaponry that the
rest of the world abandoned over the past 20 years.  Syria is one of only five countries not to have signed the
1993  Chemical Weapons Convention , which bans the development,
stockpiling, transfer and use of chemical arms. The others are
 Egypt , North Korea, South Sudan and  Angola . Israel and Myanmar
have signed the convention but not ratified it. Libya became a
party to the convention in 2004 and  Iraq  in 2009.  One reason for the appeal of chemical weapons is cost.
Because they are relatively easy to make, chemical agents cost a
fraction of the investment needed to develop nuclear arms, said
 Gunnar Jeremias , head of the Research Group for Biological Arms
Control at the  Center for Science and Peace Research  in Hamburg.
And compared with biological weapons, chemical agents are easier
to control, he said.  “Many biological agents cause contagious diseases,”
Jeremias said in a telephone interview. “If you use them close
by your own territory, you could never be sure that the effects
would not come back to you. That’s not the case with chemical
weapons.”  The use of chlorine gas by German forces at Ypres,  Belgium ,
in 1915 led to the development of the  Geneva Protocol  of 1925,
the first international agreement to ban the use of chemical
weapons. Syria signed the protocol in 1968, while the U.S.
didn’t ratify it until 1975. Still, the pact didn’t prevent
countries from developing, producing or possessing such weapons,
or from using them in retaliation.  Weapons’ Allure  That created an environment for global superpowers such as
the U.S. and Russia to stockpile them, said  Jeanne Guillemin , a
senior adviser at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s
Security Studies Program.  “The allure of chemical weapons, like that of nuclear
ones, was that the major powers possessed them,” she said in an
e-mail.  While chemical weapons aren’t that difficult or expensive
to amass, dispersing them is far more complicated. In one
method, called the unitary method, the liquid sarin is kept
isolated within an artillery shell by a diaphragm that is
pierced right before or during flight. In the second method, the
components are kept isolated from each other and mixed in-flight, and released when the shell or canisters land.  ‘Vast Quantities’  “It is much, much more difficult to aerosolize and
disperse and use these chemical weapons than people
understand,” said  David Roberts , the Qatar-based director of
the Royal United Services Institute for Defence and Security
Studies. “From what we understand, for this kind of attack, you
would have needed vast quantities of this sort of chemical.”  The complexities of aerosolizing and dispersing chemical
weapons confounded the Aum Shinrikyo sect, which on two separate
incidents killed fewer than 20 people in  Japan , despite having
access to hundreds of liters of sarin. In the 1995 attack on
separate lines of the Tokyo subway, cult members carried the
liquid on board trains in plastic bags or lunch boxes, and
punctured them using sharp umbrellas before getting off the
train, according to a Japanese government investigation of the
incident.  Nuclear Arsenals  Chemical weapons became less strategically important for
the U.S. and Soviet Union in the 1970s as the two nations
developed their nuclear arsenals, said  Ralf Trapp , a disarmament
consultant and former scientific adviser at the Organization for
the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons in The Hague.  The end of the Cold War brought about “a climate where it
became possible to ban them,” Trapp said by phone. That led to
the inauguration of the convention in 1993, under which most
countries committed to destroying their stockpiles.  As of December 2011, a total of 51,505 metric tons, or 72
percent of all declared chemical weapons globally, had been
destroyed,  according  to the OPCW, which was set up to implement
the 1993 convention.  Only  Russia , the U.S., Libya and Iraq have declared
chemical weapons that are yet to be destroyed, according to the
OPCW. The U.S. has destroyed 90 percent of its stockpiles,
Russia has destroyed 60 percent, and Libya 54 percent, according
to the OPCW. The group conducted inspections in Iraq for the
first time in 2011, though the nation hadn’t yet started
destroying its stockpiles.  Somalia  became  the most recent party to the convention in
June.  Egypt, Angola  Among the countries that either haven’t signed or ratified
the pact, both Egypt and Angola have held informal talks with
the OPCW, while political changes in Myanmar have raised hopes
that the nation will join the convention in future, Trapp said.  “ Israel  is the one country in the Middle East that could
join without any strategic loss, Trapp said. ‘‘They don’t want
to be seen as weak or someone who gives in.’’  That leaves Syria and North Korea as the only two remaining
countries to pose a serious chemical weapons threat, Trapp said.  A spokesman for Syria’s foreign ministry, Jihad Makdissi,
said at a  news conference  in July 2012 that its chemical weapons
would not be used against civilians ‘‘under any circumstances,
no matter how the crisis would evolve.’’  ‘‘All the stocks of these weapons that the Syrian Arab
Republic possesses are monitored and guarded by the Syrian
Army,’’ Makdissi said. ‘‘These weapons are meant to be used only
and strictly and in the event of external aggression against the
Syrian Arab Republic.’’ Makdissi later defected, he said in a
posting on  Twitter .  Ghouta Attack  United Nations investigators spent last week looking for
evidence of the alleged chemical weapon attack in Ghouta, near
Damascus. Doctors Without Borders said three hospitals it
supports in Damascus had treated about 3,600 patients with
neurotoxic symptoms in less than three hours on Aug. 21, and 355
died.  Syria’s opposition accused President Bashar Al-Assad of the
attack, while Assad, backed by Russia and  Iran , has dismissed
the accusations as ‘‘nonsense’’ and said rebel fighters were
behind the assault.  Video footage of the aftermath showed people with symptoms
such as narrowing of the pupils, excessive salivation and
convulsions that point to exposure to sarin or another nerve
agent, Trapp said.  Seeking Support  U.S. President  Barack Obama  is trying to rally
congressional support for a military strike to punish Syria for
the alleged use of chemical weapons. His decision Aug. 31 to
seek Congress’s backing slowed the march toward war at least
until Sept. 9, when lawmakers reconvene. Secretary of State John
Kerry on Sept. 1 said hair and blood samples indicated the use
of sarin gas by Assad’s forces.  Sarin, developed by German scientists as a pesticide in the
1930s, works by lowering the human body’s ability to regulate
nerve impulses, according to the Federation of American
Scientists. Victims suffer convulsions, lose control of their
body and become comatose if exposed to a large enough amount.  It is relatively simple to make, especially for trained
industrial chemists, since most of the ingredients are available
commercially, and formulas have been in the public domain for
decades.  Syria has also tried to gain nuclear weapons, according to
Israel. In 2007 Israel bombed a suspected nuclear reactor in the
Dair Alzour region of Syria that Assad’s government said was a
non-nuclear military installation. The International Atomic
Energy Agency  said  in 2011 that the site was ‘‘very likely a
nuclear reactor” that “could not have served the purpose
claimed by Syria.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net ;
Mehul Srivastava in London at 
 msrivastava6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  