-- Deng Xiaoping’s Lessons for Today’s China
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-09-02T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/deng-xiaoping-s-lessons-for-today-s-china.html
What would  Deng Xiaoping  make of
Charles Xue?  It’s a surprisingly edifying question. In the past few
weeks, Chinese authorities have been eager to show their
allegiance to the rule of law. They have  gone after  Western
pharmaceutical companies for bribery,  milk-powder suppliers  for
price-fixing and a well-known  British investigator  for illegally
obtaining information about Chinese citizens. The most riveting
spectacle -- the often salacious testimony in the trial of Bo Xilai, a former Politburo member -- had hardly ended when
reports emerged that the next target might be Bo’s mentor,  Zhou
Yongkang , who would be the highest-ranking party member brought
down for corruption since the Cultural Revolution.  That this flurry of activity doesn’t reflect merely the
workings of blind justice became clear when police rounded up
the 60-year-old Xue, a U.S. citizen and one of the most
influential online commentators in China. He was charged with
“group licentiousness” for allegedly taking part in
festivities with multiple prostitutes, like some Chinese
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn . The arrest came just days after
authorities had warned China’s top bloggers to watch their step.  The earthy Deng, father of reform-era China, favored a
Chinese phrase to describe this kind of legal maneuver: killing
a chicken to scare the monkeys.  Deng’s heir, Chinese President Xi Jinping, has reason to
kill a few chickens right now. At a major Communist Party
meeting in November, he and Prime Minister  Li Keqiang  are
expected to introduce a series of potentially far-reaching
 economic reforms . These are vital if China is to make the
transition from its current growth model -- in which a flood of
artificially cheap money has poured into ghost cities and
unneeded factories -- to one focused on consumption. Cadres and
cronies, who have gotten fabulously rich off the current system,
are sure to resist any changes.  The show trials are meant in part to scare these officials,
as is Xi’s new Maoist-style “mass line” campaign to cleanse
the party of “feudalism” and other dire-sounding ills.
Officials have been instructed to study an Orwellian “ Document
No. 9 ,” which blasts ideas such as Western constitutionalism as
insidious threats.  Xi may believe he’s emulating Deng, who famously refused to
relax his grip politically even as he overturned decades of
Maoist economic dogma. A more careful student of Deng might
recall that he always intended for political reforms to follow
his economic transformation. A true heir would today be working
to build independent political institutions and the rule of law.
Rather than try to intimidate potential opponents, he would
challenge them by allowing citizens and journalists to expose
details of their corruption. He would strengthen the judiciary,
not exploit it to stage shakily credible trials.  Although he defended the party fiercely, Deng, at least for
most of the decade before  Tiananmen , also commanded genuine
popular support. Chinese were grateful for the prosperity and
stability that his reforms produced; they admired him even more
for the boldness with which he challenged the vested interests
of the day. Their support in turn emboldened him to go further.  No one would argue that the Xi regime enjoys a similar
goodwill today. Even if Chinese appreciate their rising
fortunes, they are fed up with corruption and in-your-face
inequality; dismayed by the devastation of their air, water and
 food supply ; and anxious about jobs and wages. Yes, the party
has transformed China into a global economic powerhouse, just as
Deng promised. Unfortunately for Xi, Chinese now want more.  If he were alive, the pragmatic Deng would probably be
working hard to make society an ally once again. Xi seems intent
on doing the opposite. Xue’s arrest has chilled discussion among
top Chinese bloggers, who reach tens of millions of people (Xue
alone has 12 million followers on the blogging service  Sina
Weibo ). These voices have earned the kind of legitimacy among
ordinary Chinese that the regime lost long ago, and would be
powerful weapons in the war against vested interests.  The short-term stability Xi is buying inevitably comes at
the price of his long-term goals. Xi might worry less about
chickens and remember Deng’s more famous barnyard quote, the one
about how the color of the cat matters less than whether it
catches mice. If  China ’s new leaders want their reforms to work,
they should be working with, not against, the popular forces
that can bring about change.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 