-- Lead Paint’s Tragic Comeback
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-09-02T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/lead-paint-s-tragic-comeback.html
One of the surest signs of the
growing middle class in the developing world -- a freshly
painted house -- is also one of the most worrisome. That’s
because  too much of that paint  is toxic.  There’s no debate about the pernicious effects of lead:
Ingesting it, and inhaling its fumes and dust, can cause
irreversible  brain and nerve damage . No level of exposure is
considered safe, which is why lead paint has been banned for
most uses in the U.S. and  Europe  for decades. Shockingly,
however, U.S. and European Union companies continue to
manufacture lead paint in  developing countries , where few
governments regulate the stuff.  If the situation doesn’t change, the developing world will
soon have its own toxic legacy to rival that of the West -- of
lead-coated houses that require expensive remediation, of whole
generations set back by lead poisoning.  Tests in about 25 low- and middle-income countries in
recent years have found that the majority of the decorative oil-based paints for sale in local markets contained dangerous
amounts of lead. In one  2008-2009 study , the average lead
concentration of such paint purchased in 11 countries was 23,707
parts per million. The legal limit for residential use in the
U.S. is 90 ppm.  When paint contains lead above 90 ppm, it’s an indication
the metal was added intentionally -- as a pigment, drying agent
or corrosion retardant. Safe alternatives exist for each of
these functions. Some of the optional pigments are more
expensive than lead, but coloring is such a small fraction of
the total cost of paint that cans with and without lead sell for
the same price. Thus, manufacturers have no good justification
for selling the former.  Yet the study identified 54 companies that made the paints
with excessive lead concentrations, six of which were
subsidiaries of U.S. companies and eight of which were
subsidiaries of European or Japanese companies. What’s more,
U.S. entities exported at least 11,000 tons of the pigments
necessary to make lead paint in 2012, a trade worth $27 million.  Asia  is the fastest-growing market for paint, accounting
for 35 percent of global sales in 2009. Yet regulatory practices
have not kept pace with economic growth, in Asia or elsewhere.
 Sri Lanka  and  Brazil  are unusual in having passed lead-paint
control laws.  Health and environmental advocates can encourage their
governments to enact restrictions by testing and publicizing the
lead levels in paints sold locally. Advocates would find willing
collaborators among nongovernmental groups already working in
this sphere, such as the  International POPs Elimination Network 
and  Occupational Knowledge International .  Naming and shaming companies peddling lead paint is also a
valuable tactic. Activists have used it to persuade some
companies to remove additives from their products. Less
responsible brands could gain market share, but the more
companies there are on the side of restricting lead, the greater
the odds governments will pass and enforce legislation, creating
a level playing field.  Brands that have stopped adding lead should be encouraged
to establish a process for third-party certification of unleaded
paint. It’s in their interest because it would promote sales of
their products. And whether governments act or not, people
should be able to paint their houses knowing it won’t poison
them or their families.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 