-- Health Savings Accounts as Antidote to Obamacare
-- B y   L a n h e e   C h e n
-- 2013-09-02T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/health-savings-accounts-as-antidote-to-obamacare.html
Supporters of the Affordable Care
Act have heralded the recent slowdown in health-care spending as
evidence that the law is working. Unfortunately for them,
Obamacare has nothing to do with the trend.  Economists have  argued  that the slowdown can be explained,
in good measure, by the sluggish economy and consumers bearing
greater financial responsibility for their health-care
decisions. In fact, President  Barack Obama ’s signature law is
impeding progress on health costs.  For years, conservative health-policy analysts have
highlighted the power of consumer-directed arrangements such as
health savings accounts to restrain costs, help consumers gain
more control over their medical decisions and improve the
quality of care. Yet Obamacare, as well as some state policies,
are undermining the effectiveness of HSAs.  Republicans now have an opportunity to rally around reforms
to replace Obamacare and address health-care spending. Making
HSAs more attractive and widely available is an important piece
of the puzzle. As I’ve argued before, it’s time for Republicans
to stop bickering over who hates Obamacare more and get on with
promoting a package of reforms to replace it.  HSAs are employer-sponsored, tax-advantaged accounts that
are fully owned by employees and used to fund out-of-pocket
health-care expenses. Employees must purchase a catastrophic
insurance plan to go with their HSA. Such plans carry annual
deductibles of at least $2,500 a year for family coverage, and
have monthly premiums that cost about 15 percent less than those
of conventional plans. Annual out-of-pocket expenses are capped
at $12,500 a family.  Main Attraction  The main attractions are the significant federal tax
benefits. Employees can make pretax contributions of as much as
$6,450 a year for a family. Earnings are tax-exempt, and
qualified medical expenses can be paid from the account tax-free. Employer contributions are not considered taxable income
to the employee. All but three states ( Alabama ,  California  and
 New Jersey ) confer the same tax advantages on HSAs as the
federal government.  Together, HSAs and high-deductible health plans have become
increasingly popular. About 11 percent of workers in employer-sponsored plans are enrolled in an HSA-qualified plan, up from 2
percent in 2006. Among employers offering health benefits, 17
percent offer an HSA, also up from 2 percent in 2006.  HSAs give consumers greater control over how they direct
their health-care spending. They are able to roll over unspent
amounts from year to year. And because HSAs are coupled with
high-deductible health plans, consumers have incentives to
consider costs before making health-care decisions.  Recent studies show that HSAs help reduce health-care
spending. The Employee Benefit Research Institute in July  found 
that one Midwestern company whose employees were offered only an
HSA saw a 25 percent reduction in spending in the first year,
with smaller savings in subsequent years. A 2012  study  by the
RAND Corp., benefits consulting firm Towers Perrin and the
 University of Southern California  concluded that annual health-care spending could be reduced by $57 billion if consumer-directed health plans accounted for half of employers’ plans.  Despite HSAs’ growing popularity and success at controlling
costs, many liberals are on the warpath to get rid of them, or
at least to curb their effectiveness. Economist  Paul Krugman ,
for example, has written repeatedly that HSAs will increase the
number of uninsured people while benefiting only the wealthiest
taxpayers.  Liberal Distaste  Recent federal policy has codified some of the liberal
distaste for HSAs and made them less desirable for consumers.
Obamacare, for starters, bans the use of HSA funds for over-the-counter medications without a prescription -- an increasingly
restrictive limit given the  Food and Drug Administration ’s push
to make common  prescription drugs  for high cholesterol,
allergies and other conditions available over-the-counter.  Obamacare also doubled, to 20 percent, the taxes due on
money withdrawn from an HSA and used for nonmedical purposes.
These taxes exceed the early withdrawal penalties for tax-protected  retirement plans . The health-care-reform law,
moreover, drastically decreases the maximum allowable deductible
in HSA-linked plans offered by small employers. Although the
intention was to reduce out-of-pocket payments, this change will
increase monthly premiums and make coverage less affordable.  Finally, the law places HSAs in jeopardy by giving federal
regulators the authority to define the “essential benefits”
that all plans must provide. This could prevent insurers and
employers from offering certain catastrophic plans.  Policy makers should be encouraging the use of HSAs. They
should permit taxpayers to use the accounts for health-care or
long-term-care premiums and over-the-counter medications.
Medicare enrollees and veterans, now prohibited from making
contributions to HSAs, should be permitted to do so. Republican
Senators  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah  and Marco Rubio of  Florida , along
with U.S. Representative Erik Paulsen, a Minnesota Republican,
include these changes in legislation they are sponsoring.  The effort to constrain rising health-care costs isn’t just
about limiting spending for its own sake. Only by lowering costs
will more Americans be able to access quality, affordable health
care that doesn’t come with trillions in new federal spending,
higher taxes and piles of new  government regulation .  Although HSAs won’t cure all of Obamacare’s ills, they have
an important role in a Republican strategy to replace the
fundamentally flawed health-care law.  (Lanhee Chen is a Bloomberg View columnist and a research
fellow at the  Hoover Institution  at  Stanford University . He was
the policy director of  Mitt Romney ’s 2012 presidential campaign.
Follow him on Twitter at  @lanheechen .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Lanhee Chen at  lchen301@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  
 pdwyer11@loomberg.net . 