-- Telecom Italia Investor Findim Needs Pledge to Back Share Sale
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-09-02T11:29:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/telecom-italia-investor-findim-needs-pledge-to-back-share-sale.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ’s second-largest
shareholder said it would support a stock sale by the carrier on
condition that it’s backed by a business plan to return  Italy ’s
biggest phone company to growth.  “In order for Findim to participate in an eventual Telecom
Italia capital increase, our group would need a strategic
business plan that will create real value for the phone company,
on which the management’s credibility will hang,” Marco Fossati, whose Findim Group SA owns about 5 percent of Telecom
Italia, said in an interview Aug. 30.  Chief Executive Officer Franco Bernabe is racing against
time after rating companies put Telecom Italia’s debt under
review for a possible downgrade to junk. A cut to non-investment
grade -- Telecom Italia’s adjusted net debt of 28.8 billion
euros ($38 billion) is almost triple its market value -- would
put the Milan-based carrier in the same league as Portugal
Telecom SGPS SA and  Greece ’s Hellenic Telecommunications
Organization SA.  Telefonica SA (TEF) , Mediobanca SpA,  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) 
and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  together own almost 22.5 percent of
Telecom Italia through holding company Telco SpA. The partners,
which agreed in February 2012 to renew their agreement for three
years with an exit option in September 2013 and August 2014, may
use the first window this month to revoke that accord, a person
with knowledge of the matter has said.  Telefonica’s Call  Telefonica, which owns 46 percent of Telco, last month
sweetened its bid for Royal KPN NV’s German wireless business to
8.55 billion euros in order to win the backing of KPN’s largest
shareholder, America Movil SAB, for the transaction.  “It’s time for Telefonica to declare where it stands, the
time for waiting and be passive is finished,” Fossati said.
“Now is the time for Telefonica to decide which role it wants
to play in Telecom Italia.”  Telecom Italia directors are scheduled to meet Sept. 19.
CEO Bernabe said Aug. 2 in a conference call with analysts that
the company doesn’t need a capital increase or a sale of the
Brazilian unit to reach a year-end net debt target of less than
27 billion euros. A company spokesman couldn’t immediately be
reached for comment.  After failing to sell a stake to  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) 
earlier this year, Telecom Italia is now focusing on a spinoff
of its fixed-line assets. Bernabe is relying on growth in  Brazil 
and Argentina, which account for about 40 percent of the
company’s revenue, to offset a slump in its home market.  “Tim Brazil’s sale would partially solve Telecom Italia’s
financial problems in the short term but probably would
compromise the future creation of equity value,” Fossati said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  