-- Emerging Stocks Advance to 2-Week High as Bovespa Jumps
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-09-02T23:13:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/emerging-stocks-rise-to-two-week-high-on-china-data-as-won-gains.html
Emerging-market stocks rose to a
two-week high as Brazil’s Ibovespa surged after manufacturing
strengthened in  China , the South American country’s top trading
partner. South Korea’s won touched the highest level since May.  Iron-ore producer Vale SA advanced to a one-week high and
OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA, the  oil company  controlled
by former billionaire  Eike Batista , rallied in Sao Paulo after
posting a record plunge Aug. 30.  China Railway Construction
Corp. (1186)  and China Pacific Insurance Group Co. added at least 3.4
percent in Hong Kong. The Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index
jumped 3.2 percent while India’s S&P BSE Sensex index gained for
a fourth day. Indonesian stocks fell after the country reported
a record trade deficit.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.9 percent to 938.29
after losing 1.9 percent last month.  China’s economy  is
strengthening after a two-quarter slowdown, with a manufacturing
gauge rising to a 16-month high in August. An expansion in euro-area factory output was driven by a resurgence in Italy and
Spain. U.S. President  Barack Obama  delayed action against  Syria 
by seeking approval from Congress, easing concern that an
imminent strike would disrupt Middle East oil exports.  “The numbers in China and Europe are encouraging,”
 Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at Banco Mizuho do Brasil SA,
said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. “You had a
deceleration trend in China, and now we’re starting to see signs
that the Chinese economy is stabilizing.”  Chinese Manufacturing  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market
government dollar bonds over U.S. Treasuries fell two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 355 basis points, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
listed in  Hong Kong  surged 2.3 percent, the most in almost three
weeks. An official  Purchasing Managers ’ Index climbed to 51 in
August from 50.3 in July, a government report showed yesterday.  A separate PMI released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics advanced to 50.1 last month from 47.7 in July,
the largest gain since 2010. Readings above 50 signal expansion.  A  euro-area  index based on a survey of purchasing managers
in the manufacturing industry increased to a 26-month high of
51.4 from 50.3 in July, London-based Markit Economics said
today. That’s above an initial estimate of 51.3 published on
Aug. 22. Manufacturing gauges for the Czech Republic, Hungary,
Poland, South Africa and Turkey exceeded 50, the level
indicating growth.  Copper Gains  The Ibovespa gained 3.7 percent, the most since July 2012,
as Vale, whose top export market is China, rose 3 percent.  OGX surged 33 percent after sinking 63 percent last week.
The stock’s  weighting  on the Ibovespa increased today to 5.48
percent from 0.92 percent on Aug. 30 after the rebalancing the
exchange carries out every four months, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s Minera Frisco SAB dropped 1.4
percent. The country’s exchange has canceled some erroneous
trades that caused the shares to double in price on Aug. 30,
according to a bourse official with direct knowledge of the
decision.  Coca-Cola Femsa SAB, the largest bottler of the soft drink
in Latin America, rose 4.3 percent, snapping a record losing
streak after saying it will buy Brazil’s Spaipa SA Industria
Brasileira de Bebidas for $1.86 billion.  OAO Mechel, Russia’s biggest producer of coal for
steelmakers, and KGHM Polska Miedz SA, Poland’s copper producer,
snapped four-day slumps as industrial metals rose. Mechel
advanced 0.8 percent in Moscow and KGHM surged 4.7 percent in
Warsaw. Copper rose the most in three weeks. China is the
world’s biggest consumer of the metal.  South Africa  Turkey’s benchmark equity gauge climbed the most since June
26, while the lira gained the most in a month against the
dollar.  South Africa’s FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index advanced 1.2
percent as the country’s PMI unexpectedly rose to a six-year
high.  All 10 industry  groups  in MSCI’s  emerging-markets  index
advanced, led by material companies. The broad measure has lost
11 percent this year, compared with an 11 percent increase in
the MSCI World Index of developed-nation shares. The developing-nation index  trades  at 10.2 times projected 12-month earnings,
lower than the MSCI World’s 13.5 times, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  China Railway Construction climbed the most since July 23
after reporting a 47 percent jump in first-half profit. Kweichow
Moutai Co., China’s biggest liquor maker by market value,
plunged 10 percent in  Shanghai  after the company’s profit
trailed estimates.  Everbright Securities Co. slumped 8.5 percent after it drew
a record penalty and two executives resigned.  India Slowdown  The Sensex increased 1.4 percent as lower  oil prices  offset
India’s slowest economic expansion in four years. The country
imports 80 percent of its oil requirements.  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the
country’s second-biggest lender, rose 2.8 percent in Mumbai. The
rupee slipped 0.5 percent.  The won advanced to the strongest level since May after
South Korea reported a  trade surplus  that was double what
economists predicted.  The Jakarta Composite Index fell 2.2 percent, the biggest
decliner in Asia, and the rupiah weakened to the lowest level in
more than four years after the country reported a record trade
deficit for July.  PT Indofood Sukses Makmur tumbled 9.2 percent in Jakarta,
the most since September 2011. The company, the largest
shareholder of China Minzhong Food Corp., offered S$488 million
($383 million) cash for the rest of the vegetable processor that
had slumped after a short-seller’s allegations. Minzhong shares
more than doubled after resuming trade in  Singapore  today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  