-- Stenson Wins PGA Tour’s Second Playoff Event After Near Misses
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/henrik-stenson-wins-second-pga-tour-playoff-event-by-two-shots.html
Henrik Stenson broke through for his
first U.S. PGA Tour win since 2009 at golf’s Deutsche Bank
Championship, pulling out a two-stroke victory in the second of
four playoff events after two runner-up and two third-place
finishes during the past two months.  Stenson, 37, shot a 5-under-par 66 in yesterday’s final
round at the TPC  Boston  in Norton,  Massachusetts , to finish with
a four-round total of 22-under 262 that tied the tournament
scoring record. Steve Stricker was second at 20 under, one
stroke better than  Canada ’s Graham DeLaet.  Sweden’s Stenson had finished third in last month’s PGA
Championship and at the Scottish Open. He was runner-up at both
the British Open and the World Golf Championships Bridgestone
Invitational and his recent run helped him enter the Deutsche
Bank Championship at No. 10 in the Official World Golf Ranking.  “It’s been steady progress and a couple of fantastic
months,” said Stenson, who had fallen to 230th in the world
after climbing as high as fourth in 2009, when he won the
Players Championship. “This obviously is the icing on the cake.
I was longing for a win and I got it.”  Stenson, who started the final round two strokes behind
third-round leader Sergio Garcia of Spain, bogeyed the par-5
second hole and then made six birdies. His final birdie was a
hole-out from a greenside bunker at the par-4 17th hole that
helped seal the $1.44 million top prize and move him above Tiger Woods atop the FedEx Cup playoff  point standings .  “I played great and so many guys have played better,”
Stenson said yesterday of his recent run. “And today was my
turn. I was up there once again, putting myself in the mix.”  Garcia closed with a 73 to finish 17 under, tied for fourth
place with Americans Kevin Stadler, Matt Kuchar and Jordan
Spieth, a rookie who fired a final-round 62.  Top 70  The top 70 players in the FedEx Cup standings now advance
to the BMW Championship, which is held outside  Chicago  from
Sept. 12 to 15 after a week off. Woods, a five-time winner this
season, dropped to second place on the list after tying for 65th
place this week. Woods shot a 2-over-par 73 during yesterday’s
final round after carding a third-round 72.  “It wasn’t my week,” Woods said. “I didn’t play well and
didn’t make anything.”  Ernie Els tied for 20th place this week to climb 21 spots
in the FedEx Cup standings to 70th and earn the final spot in
the BMW Championship.  After the third playoff event, the top 30 in the standings
then compete for the FedEx Cup title and the $10 million bonus
at the Tour Championship in Atlanta from Sept. 19 to 22.  “We’re just trying to play for position,” Woods said of
the BMW Championship. “After Chicago it’s important that I’m in
the top five, hopefully first.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  