-- EU Hits India With Five-Year Wire Tariffs to Counter Subsidies
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-09-02T14:44:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/eu-hits-india-with-five-year-wire-tariffs-to-counter-subsidies.html
The European Union imposed five-year
tariffs on stainless-steel wires from India, saying EU producers
such as Ugitech SA of  France  have been hurt by Indian subsidies.  The duties as high as 3.7 percent punish Indian
manufacturers including  Mukand Ltd. (MUK)  for allegedly receiving
trade-distorting government aid. Two Indian exporters,  KEI
Industries Ltd. (KEII)  and Viraj Profiles Ltd., face a zero duty rate.  EU stainless-steel wire producers that also include
 Germany ’s Hagener Feinstahl GmbH,  Italy ’s Rodacciai SpA and
 Spain ’s Inoxfil SA suffered “material injury” as a result of
subsidies to Indian competitors, the 28-nation EU said in a
decision today in Brussels. The duties follow provisional anti-subsidy levies introduced in May and will take effect after
being published in the EU  Official Journal  by Sept. 8.  The EU is also threatening to apply a separate set of five-year tariffs on Indian stainless-steel wires to counter alleged
below-cost sales, a practice known as dumping. In May, the bloc
applied provisional anti-dumping duties as high as 27.8 percent
on the imports from  India . EU governments must decide by Nov. 8
whether to turn those measures into “definitive” duties.  The provisional anti-subsidy duties, introduced the same
day as the preliminary anti-dumping measures, were as high as
4.3 percent. The EU will refund importers the difference with
the lower five-year rates.  Sweet Corn  In a second decision today, the EU renewed for another five
years anti-dumping duties as high as 14.3 percent on sweet corn
from  Thailand  to curb competition for French, Hungarian and
Italian producers.  In a third decision, the EU expanded the scope of a 64.3
percent anti-dumping duty on automotive-industry wire from  China 
to cover more forms of the product, called molybdenum wire. The
bloc concluded that Chinese exporters dodged the levy by
shipping “slight modified” molybdenum wire to  Europe  and
lowered the minimum weight threshold to 97 percent from 99.95
percent in the description of the product covered by the duty,
which aims to curb competition for  Austria ’s Plansee SE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  