-- EU Said to Plan Carbon-Market Aviation Adjustment in October
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-09-02T15:46:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/eu-said-to-plan-carbon-market-aviation-adjustment-in-october.html
The European Union plans to present
a change to its emissions curbs on airlines in the first half of
October that will take into account a decision later this month
by the United Nations on whether to pursue global measures to
cut pollution by the industry.  The European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, is
considering limiting carbon-dioxide discharges by flights into
and out of the 28-nation bloc only in European air space,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter. The final
proposal will depend on the outcome of the vote by the UN
aviation agency, said the people, who asked not to be
identified, citing policy.  The commission proposed in 2012 to temporarily defer the
imposition of carbon curbs on flights into and out of the region
to facilitate talks on a global deal to reduce pollution from
the industry. Flights within Europe remain subject to the EU’s
carbon-reduction requirements in the cap-and-trade system.  “If we get a global deal we’ll amend the law,”  Isaac Valero-Ladron  said. “Our focus is on getting an ambitious
global deal.”  The EU decided in 2008 that entire flights to and from
European airports should be included within the bloc’s emissions
trading system, the world’s largest, starting in 2012 after
airline emissions in the region doubled over two decades. The
enlargement of the European cap-and-trade program triggered
opposition from countries including the U.S., China and Russia,
who said the UN’s International Civil Aviation Organization is
the forum to decide about pollution curbs.  ICAO Council  The ICAO Council is due to discuss global emissions-curbing
measures on Sept. 4 in Montreal before its tri-annual assembly
decides on the issue on Sept. 26, according to the agenda of the
gathering.  The agency’s Council, which includes 36 nations, may
propose countries commit this month to working toward a market-based mechanism starting in 2020 and leave a decision on its
design to the next assembly meeting in 2016, said Tim Johnson,
director of the Aviation Environment Federation lobby. That’s a
middle line that may garner majority support from moderate
nations like the U.S. and Australia, as well as the more
committed groups like the EU, he said.  “The text is expected to set rules that would allow
nations to implement market measures before the introduction of
a global market-based mechanism,” he said. “This may encourage
the EU to amend the basis for the inclusion of aviation in its
emissions market ahead of a global market in 2020.”  Greenhouse Gases  The EU cap-and-trade program is the cornerstone of the
region’s plan to cut greenhouse gases that scientists blame for
global warming. It imposes pollution limits on more than 11,000
manufacturers and power companies, leading to a cap in 2020 that
will be 21 percent below 2005 discharges. Emitters have to
submit one emission permit for every metric ton of CO2 they
discharge or pay a fine of 100 euros per ton.  “If indeed the EU has made such a concession as reported
today, we would be very curious to see what the U.S. and friends
have offered in return,” said Bill Hemmings, sustainable
aviation manager at the Transport & Environment lobby in
Brussels. “We need a rock solid global deal that builds on the
EU ETS, not trashes it.”  The annual limit for the aviation industry began at 97
percent of average discharges from 2004 to 2006 and will fall to
95 percent in 2013.  Airlines that joined the ETS this year were
given emission permits making up 85 percent of the industry cap
for free and will have to buy the remaining 15 percent at
auctions. They can also trade among themselves.  The freeze on imposing emissions curbs on flights into and
out of Europe, also known as the stop-the-clock proposal,
affected around two-thirds of flights, the EU said last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net . 