-- Europe’s Biggest Planned Gold Mine May Face Romanian Referendum
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-09-02T15:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/europe-s-biggest-planned-gold-mine-may-face-romanian-referendum.html
Romania’s President proposed a vote
on allowing development of Europe’s largest gold mine project
following protests against technology that made the country home
to one of the continent’s worst environmental disasters.  A day after thousands of demonstrators rallied against the
use of cyanide in gold mining, President Traian Basescu said he
may call a referendum next year on the Rosia  Montana  mine. That
may delay the project, for which Canada-based  Gabriel Resources
Ltd. (GBU)  said it could “hopefully” receive approval by November.  The rallies followed the government’s unveiling last week
of a draft law to raise the state’s stake in the project,
rekindling anger over the 2000  Baia Mare spill . Listed by the
 United Nations Environment Programme  alongside Chernobyl as one
of Europe’s major human-caused disasters, the spill happened
when a dam holding back mine debris burst, flooding the Somes,
Tiza and Danube rivers with tens of thousands of tons of cubic
meters of cyanide-contaminated water.  “The biggest scare about the Rosia Montana mine is the
cyanide process, which should have been discussed with
experts,” Basescu said on newspaper Adevarul’s website. He said
“society is rightfully reacting to this” because  Romania  had
suffered from the Baia Mare spill.  Prime Minister Victor Ponta showed similar support, saying
in a televised speech today from Bucharest that a referendum was
“a good idea,” after the government had finished the
“technical negotiations” on the project. The project is
subject to a final decision by parliament, Ponta said.  Gold Reserves  Last month, Gabriel Resources said if parliament adopted
the bill -- which increases the state’s stake in the mine to 25
percent and raises its royalties by half to 6 percent -- in a
session that begins today, it would be able to accelerate its
development of Rosia Montana and other mining projects.  Gabriel expects to get parliamentary approval as soon as
November, Chief Executive Officer Jonathan Henry said today in a
telephone interview with Bloomberg.  “Hopefully it could be a two- to three-month process,”
Chief Executive Officer Jonathan Henry said today in a telephone
interview. “It’s a little bit undefined.”  “We are hopeful that it will be smooth process to approval
and it will be a fast process to approval. We’ve been waiting a
long time and need to get on with things.”  Basescu said a referendum may take place during European
Parliament elections next year. Such a vote would need a minimum
turnout of 50 percent to be valid, a difficult prospect in a
country where voter participation is historically low.  Opposition Rising  With proven reserves, estimated by Gabriel, of 10.1 million
ounces of gold and 47.6 million ounces of silver, Rosia Montana
is worth about $15 billion, or a 10th of Romania’s annual
output, according to today’s spot price of the metals and World
Bank data on the size of Romania’s economy.  The company, which has spent about  $400 million  and more
than a decade trying to develop the gold mine, says it will be
 Europe ’s biggest when it is operational.  The draft law has stoked opposition. About 2,000 people
took to the streets in Bucharest yesterday and hundreds
protested in big cities across the country against the project,
Mediafax news service reported today.  Non-profit organization Alburnus Maior, one of the
protests’ organizers, said in an e-mailed statement they had
filed a request to the government today, asking for the
“immediate rejection of the draft law by parliament” and “the
immediate ban of the use of cyanide in mining.”  The mine may produce an average of 375,000 ounces of gold a
year and cost $1.5 billion, Stephen Walker, a Toronto-based
analyst at Royal Bank of Canada, said on Aug. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  