-- Evotec Gains as Fund Invests $40 Million: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   W e i x i n   Z h a
-- 2013-09-02T11:08:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/evotec-gains-as-fund-invests-40-million-frankfurt-mover.html
Evotec AG (EVT)  rose the most in more than
a year after Biotechnology Value Fund LP invested 30 million
euros ($40 million) in the drug development company as its
partnerships promise growth.  Evotec advanced as much as 14 percent to 2.98 euros, the
biggest intraday gain since July 10, 2012. The stock traded 10
percent higher at 12:40 p.m. in  Frankfurt , valuing the company
at 342 million euros. Trading volume was more than four times
the three-month daily average.  The Biotechnology Value Fund, and other affiliates of the
U.S. investor BVF Partners LP, acquired 11.8 million shares in
Evotec at a price of 2.55 euros each, Hamburg-based Evotec said
in a statement two days ago. The investors also purchased an
option from venture capitalist firm TVM capital GmbH giving them
the right to acquire a further 11.8 million shares at 4 euros
each in the next 30 months.  “The option to buy the shares at 4 euros has clearly
created fantasy in the market,” Tim Kruse, a Hamburg-based
analyst at Montega AG, said by telephone today.  EVT Innovate  Evotec has shifted its business focus to very early-stage
development, shuttling prospective treatments from academic
research to pharmaceutical companies. Within the EVT Innovate
unit, Evotec seeks to accelerate innovative drug development
ideas by teaming up with universities and research institutes
with upfront payments, premium research fees, milestone payments
and royalties.  Evotec is “unique in this area,” Kruse said. “This early
approach is risky but also yields higher payments.”  Scientists from  Harvard University , with whom Evotec is
cooperating, have discovered a hormone that holds promise as a
novel diabetes treatment, they said at the end of April in the
journal Cell.  “The announcement of this target by the scientists might
have been the trigger for investors to buy into the company
now,” Kruse said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weixin Zha in Frankfurt at 
 wzha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  