-- First Strut Default Jolts High-Yield Market: South Africa Credit
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-09-02T13:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/first-strut-default-jolts-high-yield-market-south-africa-credit.html
The liquidation of First Strut (Pty)
Ltd. following the murder of its chairman in June has cut sales
of high-yielding debt in South Africa as investors shun the risk
of more corporate bond defaults.  First Strut, a building company also traded as First Tech,
applied for provisional liquidation on July 16 after Chairman
Jeff Wiggill was found dead with bullet wounds next to his
Bentley in Soweto, southwest of Johannesburg. In 2011 the
company sold 925 million rand ($90 million) of floating-rate
notes due September 2016 at 550 basis points above the three-month  Johannesburg interbank agreed rate , which was 5.13 percent
on Aug. 30. High-yield emerging-market bonds have fallen 575
basis points in 2013, according to  Bloomberg indexes .  “High-yield transactions that were on the table and far
advanced or in the pipeline have disappeared,” Eyal Shevel,
head of corporate ratings at Johannesburg-based Global Credit
Rating Co., said in a phone interview on Aug. 22. “For a market
that was very robust in the first half, First Strut has caused
sentiment to turn negative.”  South African companies sold $15.1 billion of bonds in
2012, the most on record. Corporate issues this year are at the
slowest pace since 2010 at $7.54 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg shows. Only two high-yield notes, which are bonds
rated below investment grade, have been sold, compared with five
in 2012. High-yield issuance increased 35 percent this year
through August to $329 billion globally, compared with the year-earlier period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Unsustainable Losses  Wiggill’s death left a web of transactions that had to be
unraveled by court-appointed managers, who concluded that the
company’s opaque overhead structure amid a weak economic climate
had left First Strut with unsustainable losses. Liquidation
procedures are ongoing.  Apart from the First Strut fallout,  Africa ’s biggest
economy is beset with rising inflation, the world’s worst-performing major currency against the dollar, rising borrowing
costs and a labor strikes. Emerging-market assets have been
under pressure since the U.S. Federal Reserve said in May it may
start reducing its bond-purchase program.  “It’s important not to taint the good standing of many of
our corporates with the debacle of First Strut,” Heather Jackson, chief executive officer of Cape Town-based Atlantic
Specialised Finance, said in an e-mailed response to questions
on Aug. 23.  Non-rated Debt  Yields on South African benchmark government debt due
December 2026 fell four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point,
to 8.43 percent by 3:48 p.m. in Johannesburg after rising to the
highest since January 2012 on Aug. 22. The rand has weakened 17
percent against the dollar this year, the worst performer of 16
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It strengthened 0.6
percent to 10.2217 per dollar.  Last year, Idwala Industrial Holdings Ltd. a Johannesburg-based producer of lime and calcium carbonate, was the biggest
issuer of non-investment grade credit in South Africa with
almost 1.5 billion rand in debt, according to research compiled
by Johannesburg’s  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)   There have been no sales
of non-investment grade debt since June, according to research
by Rand Merchant Bank, which is also based in the South African
city.  “It’s highly leveraged and unlisted,” Shevel said.
Idwala, owned by private equity companies including Ethos
Private Equity Ltd. and a unit of  Old Mutual Plc (OML) , had debt that
was four times greater than its annual earnings by the end of
December, according to a report by Global Credit Rating.  Privately Placed  Idwala has “four or five bondholders” and the notes don’t
trade, Peter Buchner, the company’s head of treasury, said by
phone on Aug. 22. The debt was privately placed and the company
won’t be issuing more bonds this year, he said. Buchner didn’t
immediately return a message left at his office on Aug. 30.  First Strut owed about 2.5 billion rand to creditors
including South Africa’s five largest banks and six of the
country’s fund managers. Global Credit Ratings gave First
Strut’s bonds an investment-grade BBB rating, higher than the
company’s non-investment level. Calls made to the numbers for
First Strut’s office, published on its website before it was
taken offline, didn’t connect on Aug. 30.  “Within the listed investment grade universe, there had
never been a corporate bond default,” Jackson of  Atlantic
Specialised Finance  said in a note to clients. “The First Tech
default on senior secured bonds has now tarnished this.”  Before the company collapsed it didn’t show it was
compliant with South Africa’s corporate governance code,  King
III , according to Jackson. The chairman, Wiggill, was an
executive and said to be solely responsible for the group’s
financial affairs, while First Strut’s auditor was a little-known U.K.-based company, she said.  “Alarm bells should have rung,” she said. “It’s an
important lesson to us all, no question, but defaults should
still be expected to be rare events.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  