-- Gareth Bale Joins Real Madrid From Tottenham on 6-Year Contract
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y   a n d   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-09-02T00:20:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/gareth-bale-joins-real-madrid-from-tottenham-on-6-year-contract.html
Gareth Bale is joining nine-time
European soccer champion  Real Madrid  from Tottenham Hotspur on a
six-year contract after the teams reached an agreement on the
Wales winger’s transfer a day before the trade period ends.  Real Madrid will pay Spurs 78 million pounds ($121 million)
in a single installment, an executive with the Spanish club said
on condition of anonymity because the fee wasn’t disclosed in
statements on the teams’ websites last night.  That’s 2 million pounds less than the record 80 million
pounds Madrid paid to  Manchester United  for Cristiano Ronaldo.
Bale was signed for a record fee of 85 million pounds, the
British Broadcasting Corp.  reported  on its website, without
saying where it got the information. His six-year deal will pay
him 300,000 pounds a week, the  BBC  added.  “Such has been the attention from Real Madrid, and so
great is Gareth’s desire to join them, that we have taken the
view that the player will not be sufficiently committed to our
campaign in the current season,” Tottenham Chairman  Daniel Levy 
said on his club’s  website  last night. “We have, therefore,
with great reluctance, agreed to this sale.”  Bale, known for his surging runs and match-winning
shooting, was voted the best player in  England ’s Premier League
last season by his peers and soccer writers. A pivotal moment in
his career came in October 2010 in a Champions League group game
at title-holder  Inter Milan . Tottenham was down to 10 men and
losing 4-0 when Bale scored three second-half goals to reduce
the deficit to 4-3 and boost his growing reputation.  Bale, 24, will be presented at the Santiago Bernabeu
stadium today, Madrid  said on its website  last night.  Real set a world record four years ago when it signed
Ronaldo from United and previously paid record fees for Luis Figo and  Zinedine Zidane .  Spurs Record  Bale, who was one year into a four-year contract at
Tottenham, scored 55 goals in 203 appearances since joining the
north London club from Southampton in May 2007. He said joining
Real, which beat Athletic Bilbao 3-1 in  Spain ’s La Liga
yesterday, was an opportunity he could not let slip away.  “I have had six very happy years at Tottenham but it’s the
right time to say goodbye,” Bale said in a  statement  on
Tottenham’s website. “We’ve had some special times together
over the years and I’ve loved every minute of it.”  Tottenham manager Andre Villas-Boas said Bale is “a
wonderful player.”  “He has left us with great memories,” said Villas-Boas,
whose team lost 1-0 to north London rival Arsenal yesterday.
“We wish him all the best.”  Bale made his professional debut for Southampton in 2006 at
the age of 16 and was traded to Tottenham a year later. He
played 24 winless Premier League games for Spurs before a
victory against Burnley in 2009, when he came on as a late
substitute.  Star Power  Real has used its star players to bolster revenue from
sponsorships and replica jerseys, becoming soccer’s biggest club
by sales in 2005.  It has since been eclipsed on the field by archrival
Barcelona. Real won one of the past five Spanish league titles,
Barca taking four, and is without a Champions League crown since
2002. Barcelona has won three in that time.  Bale’s move to the Bernabeu comes three months after
Barcelona agreed to pay 57 million euros ($75.2 million) in
transfer fees and commissions to acquire Brazilian forward
Neymar from Santos.  Real had sales of 514 million euros for the year through
June 2012, more than any other sports team, according to the
club’s website. Tottenham was the 13th biggest soccer team by
sales in the 2011-12 season, with 178 million euros of revenue,
according to Deloitte LLP.  Spending Spree  Bale’s sale will help Spurs to offset more than 100-million
pounds of signings since last season. The team added players
including Argentina winger Erik Lamela, Spain striker  Roberto Soldado , Brazil midfielder Paulinho, Belgian winger Nacer Chadli
and Denmark midfielder Christian Eriksen.  The additions helped persuade Levy to let Bale go, even if
it was with “great reluctance.”  “Gareth was a player we had absolutely no intention of
selling,” said Levy, who added that Spurs did so “in the
knowledge that we have an exceptionally strong squad.”  Tottenham also faces the cost of a planned 56,000-seat
stadium. The project could boost matchday revenue and help
narrow the financial gap on the richest English clubs,
Manchester United, Chelsea, Arsenal and  Manchester City .  European soccer’s transfer window closes today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Duff in  Madrid  at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  