-- German Stocks Advance as China Manufacturing Increases
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-09-02T07:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/german-stocks-advance-as-china-manufacturing-increases.html
German stocks  advanced, after last
week’s decline, as a gauge of Chinese manufacturing beat
analysts’ forecasts and U.S. President Barack Obama said he will
seek congressional approval before ordering military action
against  Syria .  Deutsche Annington Immobilien SE (ANN)  climbed 1.4 percent as
Berenberg Bank recommended investors buy the shares.  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  rose 2.1 percent as the Frankfurter Allgemeine
Sonntagszeitung reported that Chief Financial Officer  Stefan
Krause  said the lender’s shares will probably “return to their
old strength” in the coming years.  The  DAX (DAX)  jumped 1.5 percent to 8,227.31 at 9:51 a.m. in
Frankfurt. The gauge lost 3.7 percent last week on concern the
U.S. and its allies would take military action against Syria for
chemical-weapons attacks that opposition groups say killed as
many as 1,300 civilians. The HDAX Index rose 1.5 percent today.  “There are two major reasons why stocks are rising today:
first, it seems that the  U.S. Congress  may not support military
action in Syria; secondly, data from China has come in better
than expected,” Christian Schmidt, a market analyst at Helaba
Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in Frankfurt, said in a telephone
interview. “On Friday, market participants got out of the
market because of uncertainty and now it seems that the risk-takers are back.”  In China, a  measure of manufacturing  climbed to 51 in
August from 50.3 in July. That exceeded the median economist
estimate for a reading of 50.6 in a Bloomberg survey. A figure
greater than 50 means that activity expanded.  Separately, Markit Economics and HSBC Holdings Plc said
their purchasing managers’ index for manufacturing in the
world’s second-largest economy rose to 50.1 last month from 47.7
in July.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said he will ask members of
Congress to back his plan for a military strike on Syria.
Congressional leaders have agreed to debate military action
against the Middle Eastern country once lawmakers return from
their recess on Sept. 9. Britain’s parliament last week rejected
a proposed strike.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  