-- Global Watchdog to Set Creditor-Loss Rules for Failing Banks
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-09-02T14:39:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/global-regulators-to-set-creditor-loss-rules-for-failing-banks.html
Global regulators said they would
seek to protect taxpayers from having to bail out failing banks
by drawing up international rules on creditor losses.  The Financial Stability Board will propose rules next year
to ensure that big banks and other too-big-to-fail financial
institutions hold subordinated debt and other liabilities that
can be written down in an emergency. The group will also address
provisions in derivatives contracts that can deepen crises.  Regulators across the world have been grappling since the
2008 financial crisis to make markets more resilient and to take
taxpayers off the hook for rescues. European Union nations alone
provided 1.7 trillion euros ($2.2 trillion) of support to their
banking systems since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., according to EU data.  “While much has been accomplished over the past few years,
more needs to be done,”  Bank of England  Governor  Mark Carney ,
the FSB’s chairman, said in a statement. “Cross-border
cooperation agreements must be struck, and policies for gone
concern loss absorbing capacity should be developed.”  Carney said the FSB would ensure compatibility of
steps by different nations, and welcomed EU progress
toward adopting rules for how regulators can intervene at
crisis-hit lenders.  The EU plans “substantively implement” overarching bank-failure principles published by the FSB in 2011, Carney said.  Derivatives Contracts  In addition to rules that would force investors to take
losses before taxpayers when a bank fails, the FSB will also
focus on removing practical impediments to safely winding down
banks, and on ensuring that national rules don’t clash, Carney
told reporters today in  London .  This will include addressing clauses in derivatives
contracts that allow large firms to terminate agreements when
their counterparty gets into difficulty, deepening the stricken
firm’s plight.  By the end of 2014 global regulators will “develop
proposals for contractual or statutory  approaches to prevent
large-scale early termination of financial contracts,” the FSB
said in a report on its future plans published today.  Authorities will encourage the  International Swaps and
Derivatives Association  and other industry groups to review such
provisions in their model contracts, according to Carney, who
said “progress” was needed on these measures.  The FSB today also called for greater information-sharing
between national regulators, and urged them to coordinate bank-structure rules, to prevent clashing requirements.  The FSB plans follow moves by global regulators to force
banks to hold more capital that they can draw on to absorb
losses in their day-to-day activities.  Large international banks have raised about $500 billion in
fresh capital since 2009 and are moving closer to complying with
global standards set to phase in by 2019, Carney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  