-- Gold Borrowing Costs Drop as Forward Rates Turn Positive
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-09-02T12:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/gold-borrowing-costs-drop-as-forward-rates-turn-positive.html
Gold forward offered rates turned
positive for the first time in eight weeks in  London , lowering
one-month bullion borrowing costs to an almost two-month low.  The one-month  gold forward offered rate , which shows the
 interest rate  at which dealers will lend metal for dollars, was
at 0.00167 percent today after remaining negative since July 8,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The one-month lease rate fell
to 0.1809 percent, the least since July 5.  Gold, down 17 percent this year after some investors lost
faith in the metal as a store of value, advanced 18 percent from
a 34-month low in June as lower prices boosted demand for
jewelry, bars and coins in  Asia . More physical purchases helped
drive borrowing costs to the highest in more than four years in
August, pushing U.S. gold futures into backwardation. An
increase in gold liquidity supply can push lease rates lower,
according to the London Bullion Market Association.  “When lease rates are spiking, it shows quite strong
appetite for borrowing gold,”  Dan Smith , an analyst at Standard
Chartered Plc in London, said today by phone. “The lease rates
are still relatively high. But physical appetite has eased back
a bit on these high numbers.”  Gold for immediate delivery traded at $1,390.18 an ounce by
12:53 p.m. in London. Prices reached a three-month high of
$1,433.83 on Aug. 28 amid concern the U.S. will take military
action against  Syria . U.S. President  Barack Obama  said on Aug.
31 he will ask members of Congress to back his plan for a
military strike on Syria.  Monthly Gain  Bullion capped a second successive monthly advance in
August after lower prices boosted demand. Consumer buying in
 India , last year’s biggest buyer, and China pushed global bar
and coin sales to a record and jewelry usage to the most since
2008 in the second quarter, according to the London-based World
Gold Council.  Consumption is being restricted in India, where the
government has sought to curb bullion imports by raising taxes
and costs to combat a record current-account deficit. The
country’s commodity markets regulator ordered exchanges to raise
margins on gold futures, effective today, after domestic prices
rallied to an all-time high.  The August futures contract on the Comex in  New York 
flipped to a premium to December last month for the first time
since they started trading. The August contract was at a 20-cent
premium on Aug. 28 and the September contract was 40 cents above
the December price today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  