-- Grocer Pao de Acucar Turns Landlord With Low-Rent Malls
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-09-02T16:16:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/grocer-pao-de-acucar-turns-landlord-with-low-rent-malls.html
After a surge in Brazilian real
estate prices,  Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de
Acucar  is carving a niche as a landlord. The nation’s biggest
food retailer is investing $500 million to build mini malls
around its supermarkets.  The gambit, borrowed from French parent  Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO) , is intended to help drive traffic to Pao de
Acucar’s grocery operations. The lure for shoppers: offerings
such as gyms and baby-goods stores in settings smaller and more
intimate than typical malls and safer than outside streets.  “We see a huge opportunity to increase what we already
have,” said Alexandre Vasconcellos, president of GPA Malls &
Properties, the mall unit of Sao Paulo-based Pao de Acucar.
“This operation is meant to meet the demands of consumers,
generate good margins and help our food retail business.”  Pao de Acucar began blending the landlord and retailer
roles in  Rio de Janeiro  with the Conviva Americas mall, which
opened in June. Commercial property in the Barra da Tijuca
neighborhood there has doubled to 10,754 reais ($4,508) a square
meter since 2008, according to ZAP, the web-based marketplace
for media company Organizacoes Globo.  Mall rents should reach about 400 million reais annually in
three years, Vasconcellos said in an interview at Pao de
Acucar’s headquarters in Sao Paulo.  Casino, Carrefour  While building malls to support supermarkets is a novelty
in Brazil, Casino has used that approach in Asia, where real
estate is more expensive. The  Saint Etienne , France-based
company has market-mall combinations in Thailand and  Vietnam .
 France ’s  Carrefour SA (CA)  has also built malls in  China  because food
sales alone don’t generate enough revenue, according to Charles Allen, a Bloomberg Industries analyst.  “The price of the land is so high you need the rental
income to contribute to make sure that the capital can be paid
back,” Allen said by telephone from  London . “You need to think
‘What can I do to get as much sales out of that as possible?’”  At 12,540 square meters (135,000 square feet), Conviva
Americas is less the half the size of the 30,041-square-meter
average for malls opening in Brazil this year, according to the
country’s mall trade group, known as Abrasce. Tenants include a
fitness center, sporting-goods store and pet-products retailer,
along with a supermarket.  Sales, Rents  If Pao de Acucar’s goal is to corral more shoppers for its
own markets, “that would be different from regular malls where
the focus is on store rents as revenue,” said Tales Paes, a
Banco Fator analyst in  Sao Paulo  who covers mall companies.  In the next three years, Pao de Acucar will invest about
1.2 billion reais in malls and about double its gross leasable
area to 500,000 square meters as it builds centers on existing
property and anchors them with its stores, Vasconcellos said.  With  revenue  from its food outlets as well as from tenants,
Pao de Acucar can undercut other landlords, he said.  “We are offering total operating costs that are inferior
to those at traditional shopping center operators,” he said. At
some malls, costs are reaching 15 percent to 17 percent of
tenants’ sales, squeezing retailers because they typically can’t
pay more than 10 percent, said Vasconcellos, who wouldn’t give
details on Pao de Acucar’s pricing.  ‘Very Stable’  Conviva Americas produces “very stable” rent, cushioning
against any potential slowdown in consumer sales, Casino Chief
Executive Officer Jean-Charles Naouri told analysts on a July 25
conference call.  Asia  mall income “remains very positive,” Casino said in
a filing that day, without giving details. Carrefour, based in
Boulogne-Billancourt, France, declined by e-mail to discuss its
China mall business.  Brazil’s retailers are feeling a pinch in an economy that
will only expand by 2.2 percent in 2013, according to the Aug.
23 weekly survey of economists by Brazil’s central bank. Six
months earlier, the estimate was 3.1 percent. Second-quarter
sales for 14 retail chains rose 10 percent, down from 18 percent
a year earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  That slowdown is converging with a surge in mall openings,
to a record 42 this year after 2012’s 27, according to Abrasce,
the trade group.  “The capacity of retailers to supply all of these new mall
projects coming up is in doubt,” Banco Fator’s Paes said.  Shares of Pao de Acucar  rose  8 percent this year through
Aug. 30, beating the 18 percent decline for the benchmark
Ibovespa index. Casino fell 0.7 percent after reaching a 12-year
high in March. The Bloomberg Industries Global Food Retailers
Competitive Index  gained 9.6 percent . Pao de Acucar rose 1.3
percent to 99.00 reais at 1:14 p.m. in Sao Paulo trading.  Profit Margins  While the expected revenue from mall rents is a fraction of
Pao de Acucar’s food division annual gross sales of 31 billion
reais, margins from the mall business are much higher.
Vasconcellos said earnings before interest and other items at
Pao de Acucar’s mall business are projected to reach 70 percent
of revenue by 2016 from about 40 percent now. That would trounce
a companywide margin of  4.5 percent  in the second quarter.  “We will never be a business that will have the kinds of
sales of food retail,” Vasconcellos said. “But in terms of
margins, we’ll have very interesting figures.”  One challenge for Pao de Acucar will be finding good
locations amid mall saturation in some Brazilian cities,
according to Daniela Ribeiro Martins, a Concordia SA retail
analyst in Sao Paulo.  Risky Bet?  “I don’t think Pao de Acucar will be able to open many
malls right now as we’re seeing retailers suffer a bit because
of economic deceleration and they might start to tighten their
belts,” Martins said in a telephone interview. “The moment for
this sector isn’t so propitious, it’s risky to do this today.”  To succeed, Pao de Acucar will have to identify new markets
and smaller cities that lack the traffic for big malls, said
Martins, who has no recommendation on the stock now and views it
favorably. Of 467 malls in operation in  Brazil , 213 are in Sao
Paulo and Rio states, according to  Abrasce .  Vasconcellos, the Pao de Acucar malls executive, said the
company’s strategy of building around existing supermarkets is
flexible enough to adapt to any business slowdowns.  “If there is an economic bump and we have to put on the
brakes, we can extend our projects to not invest as much,”
Vasconcellos said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  