-- Independent Scotland Would Have Volatile Taxes, Osborne Says
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-09-03T11:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/independent-scotland-would-have-volatile-tax-take-osborne-says.html
An independent Scotland may create a
funding gap in the next three years equal to half its education
bill as  tax revenue  becomes “more volatile,” U.K. Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said today.  Annual revenue from North Sea oil and gas has fluctuated
from 2.6 billion pounds ($4.1 billion) to 12.9 billion pounds
since the semi-autonomous Scottish government was formed in
1999, Osborne told industry executives in Aberdeen. An estimated
90 percent of the money would accrue to Scotland in the event of
independence.  “The fact is that the oil and gas remaining in the U.K.
Continental Shelf will be increasingly difficult and more
expensive to extract,” Osborne said. Oil and gas earnings “are
the most volatile tax revenues that exist.”  The  Office for Budget Responsibility  earlier this year
forecast a 4 billion-pound deficit in Scottish public finances
by 2016-2017, Osborne said. Tax relief agreed upon by the U.K.
government and the oil industry on decommissioning will cost
each person in Britain about 300 pounds. In an independent
Scotland that would rise to 3,000 pounds, according to Osborne.  The prospects for the North Sea oil and gas industry are at
the heart of the debate about whether Scotland would be better
off as an independent nation. Scotland’s electorate will vote in
a referendum on Sept. 18, 2014, on whether to quit the U.K. as
proposed by Scottish First Minister  Alex Salmond  and his ruling
 Scottish National Party .  Pooling Risks  Only the U.K. working together can maximize the volume and
value of North Sea oil and gas by pooling the risks and sharing
the gains, Osborne said.  The decommissioning agreement, the only one of its kind in
the world, will drive 17 billion pounds of additional
investment, helping to extract an additional 1.7 billion barrels
of oil, Osborne said.  The chancellor is visiting Aberdeen to publish the fifth
study by the U.K. into the implications of independence. The
paper covers the impact of borders of trade, migration, and
economic and cultural links.  The previous four examined why a currency union would be
unlikely to work, how an independent  Scotland  would not be able
to rescue its biggest banks in the event of their failure, how
Scotland benefits from being part of the U.K. single market and
why Scotland would have to reapply for membership in the
European Union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  