-- India Slump Pressures Singh to Boost Lowest BRIC Reserves
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-09-03T05:21:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/india-slowdown-pressures-singh-to-bolster-lowest-bric-reserves.html
India ’s weakest economic growth
since 2009 escalates pressure on the government to increase the
smallest foreign-exchange reserves among BRIC nations, as policy
makers struggle to contain a sliding rupee.  The  reserves  have dropped about 13 percent to $278 billion
since a 2011 peak and are equivalent to less than seven months
of imports. Bank of America Merrill Lynch estimates India needs
as much as 10 months of import cover for currency stability, a
figure still about half the average in Brazil,  Russia  and China.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s potential options to shore
up confidence in the rupee include issuing India’s first dollar
sovereign bonds, a deposit program to tap the country’s diaspora
and bilateral currency-swap agreements. Boosting reserves could
avoid the need to support the currency with further  interest-rate  increases that risk damaging efforts to revive investment.  “India needs to explore all possible funding options,”
said  Sonal Varma , an economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in
Mumbai. Rate increases may deter some capital inflows by
worsening India’s slowdown, she said.  The rupee has slumped 18 percent versus the dollar in 2013
as India’s record current-account deficit made it vulnerable to
an outflow of capital from  emerging markets , spurred by the
prospect of reduced U.S. monetary stimulus.  The currency fell 1.3 percent to 66.85 per dollar as of
10:11 a.m. in Mumbai. The S&P BSE Sensex  index  of stocks slid
0.9 percent. The yield on the 7.16 percent government bond due
May 2023 was at 8.36 percent from 8.46 percent yesterday.  Crisis Echo  Bank of America estimates a deposit program for India’s
diaspora could raise as much as $20 billion, and sovereign
dollar debt about $5 billion a year.  India’s other funding options include exploring currency-swap agreements with economies such as the U.S.,  China  and the
European Union, to add to the $15 billion arrangement with
 Japan , according to Nomura.  Rupee weakness has revived memories of India’s 1990s
crisis, when the nation needed an International Monetary Fund
loan as foreign reserves waned. Singh said last month growth
will speed up and India won’t face a repeat of that turmoil.  The shortfall in India’s current account widened to an
unprecedented  $87.8 billion  or 4.8 percent of gross domestic
product in the fiscal year ended March. Gold and oil imports
contributed to the imbalance in the broadest measure of trade.  Maturing Debt  India also had $172 billion of debt maturing within 12
months as of March 31, official data show.  If the government “tells us how it will finance or roll
over the debt of $172 billion by March,” that might stabilize
the rupee, said  Manish Sonthalia , a  fund manager  at Motilal
Oswal Asset Management Co. in Mumbai.  The  Reserve Bank of India  raised two interest rates in
July, part of a cash squeeze to boost the currency. Banks from
HSBC Holdings Plc to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. have since cut
back their growth forecasts.  Expansion (INQGGDPY)  slowed to 4.4 percent
last quarter from a year earlier as investment slid and  consumer
spending  moderated.  Indian Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said last
month some state financial companies would be allowed to issue
“quasi-sovereign” bonds to garner dollars.  The government has also eased foreign investment curbs in
industries such as aviation and retailing to woo funds, in a
drive since 2012 to spur growth and avert a credit-rating cut.  Twin Deficits  Singh’s administration is also striving to pare the  budget
deficit . The fiscal burden of a bill expanding the provision of
cheap grains to the poor is a cause for concern, DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. said in a note today. The legislation was approved
by the upper house of parliament late yesterday.  Chidambaram  predicts  a current-account gap of about $70
billion or 3.7 percent of GDP this fiscal year. He expects
inflows to finance it and forecasts an accretion in reserves.  The government has raised taxes on inward shipments of gold
and plans to compress imports of oil and some non-essential
items. The  Reserve Bank  estimates the sustainable deficit level
is 2.5 percent of GDP.  India’s reserves were $277.7 billion as of Aug. 23,
equivalent to 6.7 months of import cover based on average
monthly merchandise  inward shipments  of $41.4 billion in the
year through July, RBI and government data show.  The holdings are adequate near term, Moody’s Investors
Service said Aug. 19. China has  $3.5 trillion  of foreign
reserves, Russia about  $508 billion  and Brazil  $373 billion .  The RBI’s currency stabilization measures have raised
funding costs and may weigh on Indian growth in coming months,
HSBC said yesterday, lowering its forecast to a 4 percent
expansion in 2013-2014 from 5.5 percent. Goldman now also
projects a 4 percent rise in GDP, down from 6 percent earlier.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, the  Reserve Bank of
Australia  kept its benchmark  interest rate  at a record-low 2.5
percent. In the U.S., manufacturing probably expanded in August
for a third month, according to a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  