-- Indian 10-Year Bonds Advance After Growth Trails Estimates
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-09-02T06:11:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/indian-10-year-bonds-advance-after-growth-trails-estimates.html
India ’s 10-year government bonds 
rose, pushing the yield to a one-week low, on speculation the
central bank will focus on economic growth after second-quarter
figures trailed estimates.  The economy expanded 4.4 percent in the three months
through June, a report showed Aug. 30 after the close of trading.
That’s the slowest pace since 2009 and short of the 4.7 percent
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey. Bonds have slumped for
the past three months as the Reserve Bank of India, which cut
interest rates three times in the first half, switched from an
easing bias to supporting the plunging rupee. That’s created a
buying opportunity, according to Sundaram Asset Management Co.  The yield on the 7.16 percent bonds due May 2023 fell five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 8.55 percent as of
10:47 a.m. in Mumbai. The rate has dropped 41 basis points in
three days. The three-month advance in yields is the longest
such run for  benchmark  10-year notes since August 2010, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Growth is clearly a concern and the latest data only
affirm it,” said Srinivasa Raghavan, Mumbai-based executive
vice-president of treasury at Dhanlaxmi Bank Ltd. “The central
bank is having to deal with the currency weakness too. The
incoming RBI governor has a task at hand.”  Rebound Forecast  Raghuram Rajan, currently chief economic advisor in the
finance ministry, takes over the top job at the central bank on
Sept. 5. The RBI raised two interest rates and tightened the
supply of cash in the banking system in July. A surge in yields
after the cash squeeze prompted the monetary authority to
announce a plan to buy long-dated debt.  Government notes will rebound as the central bank reverses
its tightening measures amid the deepening economic slowdown,
Dwijendra Srivastava, the Mumbai-based fixed-income head at
Sundaram Asset, India’s best-performing debt-fund manager, said
in an interview last week.  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivative contract used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, fell one basis
point to 9.57 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  