-- India’s One-Month Rupee Forwards Strengthen From Record Low
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-09-02T01:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/india-s-one-month-rupee-forwards-strengthen-from-record-low.html
India’s one-month rupee forwards
strengthened, rallying from last week’s record low, after a
Chinese manufacturing index rose and the price of oil dropped.  One-month offshore non-deliverable contracts advanced 1.6
percent to 67.26 per dollar as of 9:18 a.m. in  Singapore , data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The contracts gained as much as 2.5
percent earlier after touching 70.05 on Aug. 29. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index advanced for a
fourth day after official data yesterday showed a manufacturing
gauge in China climbed to a 16-month high in August. India’s
economy grew 4.4 percent in the three months to June from a year
earlier, the weakest pace since 2009, the government reported on
Aug. 30. The price of oil fell for a third day, reducing the
nation’s import costs.  “We’ve seen a little bit of improvement in emerging Asian
currencies generally on the back of better-than-expected  China 
PMI reading,” said Khoon Goh, a senior currency strategist at
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in Singapore. “It’s
probably still too early to draw a conclusion from the NDF
trading in the Indian rupee. Liquidity is thin.”  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures for September delivery were
unchanged at 5,445 in Singapore trading. The underlying CNX
Nifty Index rose 1.2 percent to 5,471.80 on Aug. 30.  Brent crude fell 1 percent to $112.93 a barrel today after
dropping 2.2 percent in the previous two days, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Rupee Rebounds  The rupee plunged 8.1 percent last month in its worst
performance since 1992 on concern  India ’s deepening economic
slowdown will deter investors as the U.S. prepares to pare
stimulus. The currency climbed 4.8 percent in the last two
trading days, the biggest two-day advance since September 2011,
after the central bank said on Aug. 28 that it will supply
dollars directly to local oil importers.  Raghuram Rajan, an economist credited with predicting the
2008 global financial crisis, will take charge of India’s
central bank on Sept. 5.  “As Rajan will assume the governorship of the RBI this
coming Thursday, the bearish sentiment toward the Indian rupee
will be kept in check, also taking into account the foreign-exchange swap window introduced last week,” Anthony Lam, a
Credit Agricole CIB analyst in Hong Kong, wrote in a research
note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  