-- Indonesia’s Trade Gap Widens to Record as Inflation Quickens
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-09-02T09:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/indonesia-s-trade-gap-widens-to-record-as-inflation-quickens-2-.html
Indonesia  unexpectedly reported a
record trade deficit while inflation accelerated further,
renewing pressure on policy makers as they grapple with a
slumping currency. Stocks and the rupiah fell.  The trade  gap  in July was $2.3 billion, the biggest on
record, according to the Statistics Bureau, and exceeding all 16
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Consumer prices  rose 8.79
percent in August from a year earlier, a separate report showed.
The increase was the greatest since January 2009, and compared
with the 8.95 percent median in a survey.  The numbers showed the challenge for Indonesia, which joins
emerging economies from  Brazil  to Turkey and  India  in taking
steps to support currencies as the prospect of reduced U.S.
monetary stimulus spurs a sell-off in their markets. Bank
Indonesia raised its  reference rate  by half a percentage point
at an unscheduled meeting last week, while the government said
Aug. 23 it will allow more mineral exports this year and
increase a luxury-goods tax to narrow the  trade gap .  “The widening deficit shows how serious Indonesia’s
economic condition is,” said Edwin Sebayang, head of research
at PT MNC Securities in Jakarta. “This is what caused the
reversal in the stock market.”  The benchmark Jakarta Composite Index of stocks fell 2.2
percent at the close, the most in  Asia . The rupiah slid 0.5
percent to 10,979 per  U.S. dollar  as of 4:07 p.m. It fell 5.9
percent in August to be the second-worst performer among 11
widely traded Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘Nasty’ Shock  Inflation climbed because of higher gold prices and power
tariffs, the statistics bureau said. The trade deficit widened
as consumption rose before the Eid-al-Fitr holiday and a lack of
sufficient production meant more imports, even as exports
dropped on lower global commodity prices, said Sasmito Hadi
Wibowo, an official at the bureau.  The record trade deficit is unlikely to continue and the
shortfall for the year should range from $6 billion to $7
billion, Trade Minister  Gita Wirjawan  said in  Singapore  today.
The current-account gap will remain for many months, he said.  Today’s data was a “nasty trade shock,” and fuel-price
inflation will continue to be elevated on an annual basis for a
year from June, when President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono raised
tariffs for the first time since 2008 to cut subsidy costs,
 Robert Prior-Wandesforde , an economist at Credit Suisse Group AG
in Singapore, said in a note.  The central bank forecasts inflation of about 9 percent to
9.8 percent by the end of the year, Deputy Governor Perry Warjiyo said last week.  Rate Increases  Indonesia’s monetary authority has raised its policy rate
by a total 125 basis points since early June to 7 percent. The
August inflation number is “good news” and inflation will
return to a normal pattern this month, Warjiyo said today.  Inflation may peak at about 10 percent to 10.5 percent in
December or January, higher than  Bank Indonesia ’s forecast,
because of rising oil prices, higher minimum wages and the weak
rupiah, said Hak Bin Chua, a Singapore-based economist at Bank
of America Corp. The trade deficit suggests the current-account
gap will remain wide and at about 4 percent of  gross domestic
product  or higher in the third quarter, Chua said.  Bank Indonesia may raise borrowing costs by at least
another 50 basis points this year, Prior-Wandesforde said.  “Today’s releases are going to do nothing to reassure the
central bank while unsettling the markets once again,” Prior-Wandesforde said. “In our view, BI still has plenty of work to
do to calm things down.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  