-- Indofood Considering Offer for Minzhong Amid Glaucus Attack
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-09-02T04:27:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/indofood-may-bid-for-rest-of-china-minzhong-amid-glaucus-attack.html
China Minzhong Food Corp. (MINZ) , the
vegetable processor that slumped a record 48 percent after a
report by short-seller Glaucus Research Group, said its largest
shareholder is considering a takeover bid.  PT Indofood Sukses Makmur, the biggest instant noodle maker
in Indonesia that  doubled its stake  in Minzhong this year to 29
percent, may make an offer today, Putian, China-based Minzhong
said in a statement, citing a letter from the Jakarta-based
company. Minzhong, which is halted from trade, scheduled a press
conference for 5 p.m. in Singapore.  Minzhong’s market value plunged to S$347 million ($272
million) on Aug. 26 after Glaucus questioned its accounts.
Minzhong, which grows and exports vegetables from  China  to 26
countries, yesterday denied the allegations, saying they were
calculated to cause panic and drive down its shares.  A possible offer “is definitely a positive in the light of
what’s happened,” said Kelly Teoh, Singapore-based market
strategist at IG Markets. “It would give investors a sense of
confidence.”  Minzhong last traded at 53  Singapore  cents after plunging
the most since its April 2010 share sale following the Glaucus
report.  Indofood, which said last week it’s comfortable with its
investment, paid an average of S$1.02 a share for its stake in
Minzhong, according to Herman Koeswanto, an analyst at PT
Mandiri Sekuritas.  Due Diligence  The maker of noodle brands including Indomie, Supermi and
Sarimi conducted due diligence before making its investment in
Minzhong, Director Thomas Tjhie said Aug. 26, adding he had
spoken to Minzhong’s chief financial officer about the Glaucus
report. Tjhie declined to comment today.  The Indonesian company also controls palm oil producers PT
Salim Ivomas Pratama and PT Perusahaan Perkebunan London Sumatra
Indonesia as well as Bogasari,  Indonesia ’s largest flour miller.  The statements by Glaucus, which has an office in  Newport
Beach ,  California , were made with the objective of driving down
the company’s share price and gaining from the decline, Minzhong
said yesterday. Soren Aandahl, Glaucus’s director of research,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  “The manner in which they made these statements and the
conclusions which they drew from them were mischievous and
calculated to cause panic and impose maximum damage on the price
of the company’s securities for their own benefit,” Minzhong
said in a 19-page statement yesterday, that was accompanied by
invoices and pictures of its factory lines and warehouses.  Glaucus Claims  Minzhong may have fabricated sales and payments to its
largest supplier, doctored accounts and overstated  capital
spending , Glaucus said in its report. It also questioned the
food processor’s reported receivables and cash balances.  “Evidence indicates that Minzhong fabricated sales to its
top two customers, suggesting that the company overstated
revenues in its IPO prospectus by at least a third during the
track record period,” Glaucus said.  The Chinese company said it has documentation, including
sales contracts, to counter the allegations. Glaucus “used
terms such as ‘doctored SAIC financials,’ ‘fabricated sales’ and
‘cover up,’ which they know or ought reasonably to have known
are false or misleading,” Minzhong said.  Glaucus was founded by Matt Wiechert, a former investment
banker, to probe companies that appear “too good to be true,”
according to its website. It has also issued reports on Hong
Kong-traded China Metal Recycling Holdings Ltd. and China
Medical Technologies Inc. and SouFun Holdings Ltd. in  New York .  Hong Kong ’s securities regulator said in July it found
evidence China Metal had inflated the size of its business and
is seeking to wind up the company. China Medical filed for
Chapter 15 foreign-firm bankruptcy protection in New York last
year, while SouFun, China’s biggest real-estate website owner,
has surged more than 70 percent since Glaucus’s April report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  