-- Indofood Offers $383 Million in Cash for Rest of China Minzhong
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-09-02T14:29:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/indofood-offers-383-million-cash-for-rest-of-china-minzhong.html
PT  Indofood Sukses Makmur (INDF) ,
controlled by Indonesian billionaire Anthoni Salim’s investment
company, offered S$488 million ($383 million) cash for the rest
of  China Minzhong Food Corp. (MINZ) , the vegetable processor that
slumped after a short-seller’s allegations.  Indofood bid S$1.12 apiece for Putian, China-based
Minzhong, the Jakarta-based company said today in a statement,
giving the stock its biggest gain since its debut in 2010. The
price is more than double the 53 Singapore cents that Minzhong
 fell to  on Aug. 26 before the stock was suspended from trading.  Buying Minzhong will give  Indonesia ’s largest noodle maker
control of a company that grows and exports vegetables from
 China  to 26 nations whose market value plunged to S$347 million
last week. Minzhong yesterday rebutted Glaucus Research Group’s
questioning of its accounts, saying the allegations were
calculated to cause panic and drive down its shares.  “Minzhong shareholders should sell their shares to
Indofood because at S$1.12 most of the investors are in the
money,” said Wei Bin, an analyst at Maybank Kim Eng Holdings
Ltd. in  Singapore . “If you look at the announcements from
Indofood and Glaucus, both of them give quite strong evidence.
At this point in time, it’s very hard to judge who’s right and
who’s wrong.”  Minzhong jumped to S$1.12 at the close in Singapore, as it
resumed trading for the first time since Aug. 26. The bid is
priced at 6.9 percent more than Minzhong’s weighted average
price for the previous three months, according to the statement.  Stake Increases  Indofood slumped 9.2 percent, the most in almost two years,
to 5,900 rupiah at the close in Jakarta.  First Pacific Co (142) , which
controls Indofood, was halted from trading in Hong Kong at
HK$8.30 today. The Asian utilities and resources group had a
50.1 percent stake in Indofood as of March 19, according to the
company’s 2012 annual report.  Indofood said today it agreed to buy 69.5 million shares,
bringing its stake in Minzhong to 44.1 percent. The company said
earlier that it had triggered an offer for the balance of the
target’s stock.  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB) , Indofood’s banker,
confirmed the Indonesian company has sufficient resources for
the offer, it said.  Indofood, which said last week it’s comfortable with its
investment, paid an average of S$1.02 a share for its stake in
Minzhong, Herman Koeswanto, an analyst at PT Mandiri Sekuritas,
said in a note before today’s announcements.  The maker of noodle brands including Indomie, Supermi and
Sarimi also controls palm oil producers PT Salim Ivomas Pratama
and PT Perusahaan Perkebunan London Sumatra Indonesia as well as
Bogasari, Indonesia’s largest flour miller.  Doctored Accounts  “The last one week has been a harrowing experience,” Siek Wei Ting, Minzhong’s chief financial officer, said today at a
briefing in Singapore. “As far as operations are concerned,
it’s business as usual.”  Minzhong may have fabricated sales and payments to its
largest supplier, doctored accounts and overstated capital
spending, Glaucus said in its report. It also questioned the
food processor’s reported receivables and cash balances.  The statements by Glaucus, which has an office in Newport
Beach,  California , were “mischievous and calculated to cause
panic and impose maximum damage on the price of the company’s
securities for their own benefit,” Minzhong said in a 19-page
statement yesterday, that was accompanied by invoices and
pictures of its factory lines and warehouses.  Glaucus today said in a statement on its  website  that its
comments were fair and stands by its belief that Minzhong made
false and misleading statements when it sought to raise funds
from public markets.  The company is currently consulting legal advisers and will
make a decision after that on whether it will take action
against Glaucus, Lim Yeow Hua, Minzhong’s independent director,
said at the briefing today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  