-- Lira Appreciates on Bets of Central Bank Support
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-09-02T09:30:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/lira-appreciates-as-yields-fall-on-bets-of-central-bank-support.html
(Corrects time in second paragraph.)  The Turkish lira strengthened the
most in seven weeks on investor speculation the central bank
will support the currency and as prospects of an imminent strike
on  Syria  faded. Stocks climbed.  The lira appreciated 1.1 percent to 2.0158 per dollar at
11:31 a.m. in Istanbul after gaining as much as 1.2 percent, the
most since July 15. The currency weakened 5.1 percent last
month, the worst performer among 31 major currencies after
Indinesia’s rupiah and the Indian rupee. Yields on  10-year bonds 
fell 28 basis points to 10 percent, the lowest level since Aug.
21, and the BIST National 100 Index surged 2.6 percent.  Governor Erdem Basci said last week the central bank
wouldn’t provide repo funding at its 4.5 percent benchmark
interest rate today and promised “surprise” tools to defend
the lira without saying when these measures would be announced.
He vowed to keep rates unchanged this year. The central bank
will sell a minimum $100 million for liras today.  The “market expects the central bank to announce further
measures to lead the lira to recover its earlier weakness,”
Erkin Isik, a fixed-income and currency strategist at  Turk
Ekonomi Bankasi AS (TEBNK) , wrote in an e-mailed note. “Lack of any
further measures may prompt further underperformance, at least
against  emerging markets .”  President  Barack Obama  said he’ll seek authorization from
Congress before ordering military action against Syria.  Turkey ,
which borders Syria and has supported rebels against President
Bashar al-Assad, has said it could be part of a Western attack
against the country over its alleged use of chemical weapons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  