-- Misconceptions About Fed’s Bond Buying
-- B y   J o s e p h   E .   G a g n o n
-- 2013-09-02T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/misconceptions-about-fed-s-bond-buying.html
To combat the recession that began
in 2007, the  Federal Reserve  and some other central banks have
been buying large amounts of long-term bonds. The novelty of
this quantitative easing makes the policy especially prone to
popular misconceptions.  Misconception No. 1: QE bond purchases are comparable to
stimulus spending on roads and tax cuts, which adds to the
national debt.  -- QE actions to lower long-term interest rates require
much bigger changes in the Fed’s balance sheet than conventional
policy aimed at short-term interest rates. The “Q” in QE is
the quantity of assets purchased -- and the dollar amounts are
necessarily very large. But QE is a swap of one asset (bank
reserves) for another (bonds); this has no direct effect on the
national debt. Indeed, QE indirectly shrinks the national debt
by reducing interest payments and by strengthening economic
activity, which raises  tax revenue .  Misconception No. 2: Any effect of QE on long-term  interest
rates , and hence on economic activity, is small and temporary.
That’s why bond yields are higher now than a year ago and the
economic recovery remains sluggish.  -- Studies show that QE has a large and long-lasting effect
on bond yields. The evidence for an effect on economic activity
is weaker, but consistent with a positive effect. It is well
established that monetary actions that reduce short-term
interest rates stimulate activity, and there’s no reason to
doubt that monetary actions that reduce long-term interest rates
do the same. It’s normal for bond yields to rise as recovery
proceeds, but yields are still much lower than you would expect
given the state of the economy and the large increase in federal
debt. The recovery is sluggish because of lasting damage from
the bursting of the housing bubble, fiscal contraction at all
levels of government and weakness in the rest of the world,
especially  Europe .  Misconception No. 3: The main lasting impact of QE is to
raise stock prices, which disproportionately benefits the
wealthy.  -- Any policy that supports economic recovery is good for
stock prices, and does benefit the wealthy. But a more vigorous
economic recovery also increases employment, which
disproportionately benefits those who aren’t wealthy. Lower
long-term interest rates benefit borrowers, who tend to be
poorer, and harm savers, who tend to be richer.  Misconception No. 4: QE is disrupting financial markets and
encouraging risky and wasteful behavior.  -- To the contrary, QE has helped to keep markets liquid
and healthy. By supporting economic recovery, QE reduces the
risk of market panics and the threat that big financial
institutions might fail. True, QE could encourage market
participants to take on more risk if they believed short-term
interest rates would remain at almost zero for a long time, but
the Fed has been clear that short-term rates will have to rise
eventually, even if they remain low for a few more years. In
addition, the Dodd-Frank Act created a Financial Stability
Oversight Council with the power to stop banks and other
institutions from engaging in activities that pose a systemic
risk, such as taking on excessive leverage. Regulation, not
higher interest rates, is the right way to control risk.  Misconception No. 5: QE and the ultralow interest rates
that go with it remove the incentive for banks to lend and thus
may harm the recovery.  -- This confuses the level of interest rates with the
spread between deposit and lending rates. The Fed in effect
controls bank deposit rates, but it has no control over the
spread banks charge when they lend. It’s the spread that
provides the incentive for bank lending. Fed policy to keep
deposit rates low has no effect on the spread.  Misconception No. 6: QE is going to cause high inflation.  -- QE critics have been sounding this alarm for more than
four years, but inflation has actually moved down. At some point
the Fed will need to terminate QE and begin to raise interest
rates to prevent inflation from exceeding its target to a
significant extent. It’s not possible for the Fed to achieve
both of its targets of maximum  employment  and 2 percent
inflation precisely and continuously. Shocks and unforeseen
events are always happening, and the lag between Fed policy and
its effects on employment and inflation is fairly long. But
there’s just as much chance of undershooting inflation as there
is of overshooting inflation.  In the difficult conditions that prevailed after the crash,
QE was the right policy, and it still is.  (Joseph E. Gagnon is a senior fellow at the  Peterson
Institute for International Economics .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Joseph Gagnon at  jgagnon@piie.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Clive Crook   ccrook5@bloomberg.net . 