-- Israel Shekel Is Safe Currency in Emerging Markets
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l   a n d   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2013-09-02T14:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/israel-shekel-is-safe-currency-in-emerging-markets.html
The Israeli shekel is a haven among
emerging market currencies and any Syria-related weakness is a
buying opportunity, Societe General SA said.  Better-than-forecast economic growth in the second quarter
and expectations that  Israel ’s interest rate differential with
major economies won’t narrow in coming months are fueling shekel
gains. Israel’s economy is set to expand 3.5 percent in 2014,
faster than the 3 percent forecast for  Russia  and the 2.5
percent estimate for  Poland , according to economist estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The shekel displays some interesting defensive
characteristics, and is therefore one of the few safe-haven
emerging market currencies in this challenging global
environment,”  Benoit Anne , head of emerging-market strategy at
Societe General, said in a note to investors Aug. 30. “ Syria 
may cause a knee-jerk reaction to the shekel but I would quickly
call this a buying opportunity,” he said in separate comments.  The shekel rose 0.1 percent to 3.6171 per dollar, at 5:29
p.m. in Tel Aviv, trimming an earlier advance of 0.8 percent,
after the central bank bought “more than $100 million.” The
currency has appreciated 1.1 percent from a seven-week low on
Aug. 27. The shekel’s 14-day relative strength index climbed
above 70 on Aug. 27, a threshold that suggests to some traders
that a reversal is imminent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It
was at 57 today.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said Aug. 31 he’ll seek
congressional approval before ordering a military strike against
Syria. Legislators will take up the issue once they return from
their recess on Sept. 9. The currency has gained 3.2 percent
this year, the best performer among 31 major currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  Recovery Signs  The economy expanded an annualized 5.1 percent in the
second quarter compared with a revised 2.7 percent in the
previous quarter, the Central Bureau of Statistics said Aug. 18.  The Bank of Israel, led by interim Governor Karnit Flug,
kept the benchmark lending rate unchanged at 1.25 percent on
Aug. 26 for a third month amid signs a global recovery is
strengthening. All 15 analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg forecast 
the rate will be held by policy makers at their next meeting on
Sept. 23  We “expect local rates to compress, especially in relation
to U.S. rates,” Anne said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif in  New York  at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  