-- Kenya May Hold Key Rate After Inflation Rose to One-Year High
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2013-09-02T04:24:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/kenya-may-hold-key-rate-after-inflation-rose-to-one-year-high.html
Kenya’s central bank will probably
leave its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged to help stem a
depreciation in the shilling that could feed inflation.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor Njuguna Ndung’u, may hold the key lending rate for a second consecutive
meeting at 8.5 percent, according to the median estimate of
seven economists and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The central
bank will announce its decision tomorrow afternoon.  “The central bank may not cut rates because of the
unfavorable inflation outlook,” Robert Bunyi, managing director
of Nairobi-based Mavuno Capital Ltd. said by phone. The shilling
“has lost some ground against the dollar and that will be
reflected in higher inflation rates due to higher import
costs,” he said.  The currency weakened for the fourth consecutive month
against the dollar in August, while inflation exceeded the 5
percent mid-point of the government’s inflation target for the
second straight month. Consumer price growth rose 6.7 percent in
August, the highest since August 2012, from 6 percent in July.
With a weaker shilling, the cost of imported goods, including
oil, food and manufactured items, become more expensive in
 Kenya .  The government forecasts economic expansion of 5.8 percent
this year in the world’s largest exporter of black tea, the
highest level in six years. That compares with growth of 4.6
percent last year.  The central bank in neighboring  Uganda , where inflation
accelerated to a one-year peak in August, is also scheduled to
meet tomorrow and review its monetary stance. Policy makers held
the  benchmark interest rate  at 11 percent last month, after
cutting it by one percentage point earlier this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  