-- Kingfisher Air Seeks Damages From Engine Vendor IAE
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-09-04T05:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/kingfisher-air-seeks-234-million-damages-from-engine-vendor-iae.html
(Corrects details on IAE’s ownership in second paragraph
in story published yesterday.)  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , the
carrier that’s halted flights after defaulting on payments to
employees and airports, filed a $234 million lawsuit for damages
from International Aero Engines AG, citing engine defects.  The lawsuit citing deficiencies in IAE’s V2500-A5 engine
was filed in a court in the Indian city of Bangalore, the
carrier said in its annual report for the year ended March.
About 190 airlines and lessors from about 70 countries use the
 V2500  engines, according to the website of  East Hartford ,
Connecticut-based IAE, whose shareholders include  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Pratt & Whitney unit.  Engine problems and difficult operating environment were
cited by the carrier as reasons for the Bangalore-based
company’s financial stress. The airline grounded its fleet in
October after employees walked out over delayed salaries.
 India ’s aviation regulator later suspended the airline’s permit
because of service disruptions and the permit lapsed Dec. 31.  Heather Waldron, communications manager at IAE, said in an
e-mailed response that the company can’t comment on pending
litigation.  Kingfisher shares  rose  as much as 5.8 percent, poised for
the biggest gain since July 9, to 3.81 rupees as of 9:41 a.m. in
Mumbai.  The carrier was in talks with one potential investor as of
Aug. 14 to fund its restart, Chairman  Vijay Mallya  said in the
report. Mallya has been seeking funds for more than two years
for the carrier that posted losses for five straight years and
had  net debt  of 86.4 billion rupees ($1.3 billion) as of March
31.  Kingfisher’s lessors have repossessed aircraft after
payment defaults and the nation’s state-owned Airports Authority
of India sued the airline because it failed to pay 3 billion
rupees of airport fees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  