-- N.Z. Must Hold Non-Binding Referendum on More Asset Sales
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-09-02T03:50:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/n-z-government-must-hold-non-binding-referendum-on-asset-sales.html
The  New Zealand  government will be
forced to hold a non-binding referendum on state asset sales
after 10 percent of eligible voters signed a petition against
the program.  The Clerk of the  House of Representatives , Mary Harris,
said today she was satisfied that the petition has more than the
308,753 signatures needed to trigger a nationwide referendum.
The petition, conducted by the  Keep Our Assets  coalition that
includes the Green Party, asked whether a referendum should be
held on the government’s plans to sell as much as 49 percent of
three state-owned power companies as well as reducing its stake
in Air New Zealand Ltd.  The government aims to reap between NZ$5 billion ($3.9
billion) and NZ$7 billion from the asset sales, which it will
use to fund spending on infrastructure and reduce debt. It
raised NZ$1.7 billion by selling a 48 percent stake in Mighty
River Power Ltd. in May and has said it will proceed with the
partial sale of Meridian Energy Ltd., New Zealand’s largest
power company, by early November.  “The government needs to suspend the sale of Meridian
Energy until after this referendum,”  Green Party  co-leader
Russel Norman said in a statement. “The government has no
mandate for their program of selling profitable state-owned
assets.”  ‘Voter Fatigue’  The referendum won’t prompt the government to change its
policy because asset sales haven’t turned voters away from the
ruling National Party, said Bryce Edwards, a politics lecturer
at Otago University in Dunedin.  “Everyone has had their say and we’ve had an election
campaign over it,” he said. “I don’t believe there’s a
majority in favor of what the government’s pursuing, but there’s
a certain amount of voter fatigue over the issue. People are
sick of talking about it and hearing about it.”  Prime Minister John Key outlined the government’s asset
sales plans prior to the 2011 general election, in which his
 National Party  gained its best result in 60 years. The party had
46 percent support in a Colmar Brunton poll for One News
conducted late July this year.  Parliament’s speaker will present the petition to the House
tomorrow, after which the government has a month to decide on a
date for the referendum. It must be held within 12 months.  Key said today that the assets could be sold by the time
the referendum takes place, adding it will cost around NZ$9
million if held by post.  “I think it’s a complete and utter waste of money,” he
said at his weekly post-cabinet press conference. “We’ve had a
referendum, it was called a general election, and National won
that election on the back of this major policy plank.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  