-- Korean Talks Fail to Agree on Timetable for Reopening Gaeseong
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-09-03T01:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/north-korea-renews-talks-on-gaeseong-after-shunning-u-s-envoy.html
Negotiators from North and South
Korea failed to produce a timetable for reopening their jointly
run industrial complex and agreed to meet for more talks next
week.  The 12-hour negotiations yesterday at the Gaeseong
Industrial Complex made some progress on other technical issues
and will resume on Sept. 10, the Unification Ministry in  Seoul 
said in an e-mailed statement.  The meeting was the first between the countries since the
they agreed last month to reopen the factory park, which
combines North Korean labor with South Korean capital. It was
shuttered in April when Kim Jong Un withdrew the North’s 53,000
workers at a time of heightened tensions between the countries.  “The continuing talks show the North fears further
isolation without keeping alive some ties with the South,” Kim
Seok Hyang, a professor of North Korean studies at Seoul’s Ewha
Womans University, said yesterday.  The meeting coincided with South Korea’s announcement that
it will provide $6.3 million in humanitarian aid to the North
through a United Nations agency. That assistance was in addition
to $6 million in aid announced on Aug. 6.  The North’s leader, Kim, inspected two island bases
involved in bombarding a South Korean island and killing four
people in 2010, the official Korean Central News Agency reported
today without saying when the visit took place.  Envoy Shunned  The Gaeseong talks came days after the North shunned a U.S.
envoy seeking the release of an American sentenced to 15 years
of hard labor.  Robert King, the State Department’s special envoy on North
Korean human rights, was scheduled to visit North Korea on Aug.
30 to negotiate the release of Kenneth Bae, a tour operator and
Christian missionary who was arrested in a North Korean city in
November for alleged hostile acts against the country.  King’s trip would have been the first public visit to North
Korea by a U.S. official in more than two years. The two
countries remain in a deadlock over ways to restart
multinational talks on the North’s nuclear arms programs.  Military Drills  North Korea said it revoked King’s invitation over U.S.
military drills with the South.  The joint military exercises from Aug. 19-30 included B-52
bombers and “beclouded the hard-won atmosphere of humanitarian
dialog,” a spokesman for North Korea’s Foreign Ministry said,
according a statement issued on Aug. 31 to the Korean Central
News Agency.  U.S. Forces Korea said in a statement last week that the
annual drills were defense-oriented. It didn’t say whether B-52
bombers participated.  “North Korea must have realized King wasn’t bringing any
political gift with him,” Ewha’s Kim said. “Releasing Bae just
wan’t a profitable business for the North.”  The U.S. was “surprised and disappointed” by the
cancellation of King’s visit, Marie Harf, a State Department
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement before the North
Korean Foreign Ministry’s comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in Seoul at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  