-- U.S. Spied on Presidents of Brazil and Mexico, Globo Reports
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-09-02T19:04:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/nsa-intercepted-calls-of-brazil-mexico-presidents-globo-says.html
The U.S. intercepted phone calls and
e-mails of the presidents of Brazil and  Mexico  to showcase the
reach of an anti-terror surveillance program, according to
documents leaked by fugitive security analyst Edward Snowden.  The allegations were made last night by American journalist
Glenn Greenwald, who obtained secret documents from Snowden in
May, on Brazil’s most-watched TV news magazine, Fantastico,
owned by the Globo network.  In one document, the National Security Agency cites how it
intercepted  text messages  by Mexico’s Enrique Pena Nieto in
which the then-presidential front-runner discusses two possible
cabinet picks. The 24-slide presentation was dated June 2012, a
month before Pena Nieto was elected. In the case of Brazil, the
document highlights software that was used to probe President
 Dilma Rousseff ’s communications with several unidentified aides.
Both leaders will cross paths with President  Barack Obama  this
week at a Group of 20 summit in Russia.  “What struck me about these documents was how personal
they were. They had pictures of them,” Greenwald, who lives in
Rio de Janeiro and writes for The  Guardian newspaper , said in a
phone interview. “I’d think there has to be some sense of
violation and invasion that will produce some outrage.”  Ambassador Called  Justice Minister Jose Eduardo Cardozo, who met last week in
 Washington  with Vice President  Joe Biden  to discuss Brazilian
concerns about the surveillance program, told Fantastico that
such spying is “unacceptable,” and if confirmed, constitute a
“clear violation of our national sovereignty.”  Rousseff, after an emergency meeting with Cardozo and other
aides last night, called on the U.S. ambassador, Thomas Shannon,
to provide explanations. The U.S. envoy left without speaking to
reporters following a meeting this morning with Foreign Minister
Luiz Alberto Figueiredo. Pena Nieto’s office didn’t immediately
return an e-mail seeking comment.  Greenwald said the presentation was part of the first batch
of documents he received from Snowden when he met him in Hong
Kong in May. That was before the former  Booz Allen Hamilton
Holding Corp. (BAH)  employee was granted a one-year asylum in Russia
on President  Vladimir Putin ’s condition that he stop disclosing
documents that harm U.S. interests.  Brazil Spying  In July, Greenwald co-wrote articles in O Globo newspaper
that said Brazil’s telecommunications network, a hub for traffic
from  Latin America , was a priority target for the NSA, alongside
China,  Iran  and Russia. The surveillance was facilitated by
associations between Brazilian and American companies, the
extent and names of which Greenwald said he couldn’t verify.  Shannon at the time denied the report by the Rio de Janeiro
newspaper, telling officials that the U.S. didn’t spy on
Brazilian citizens and only collects records of phone calls or
e-mail messages abroad to pursue suspected terrorists.  “Shannon first said we only look at meta-data,” said
Greenwald. “It was a complete and absolute lie.”  The secret document disclosed yesterday was prepared by a
division of the NSA known only by its acronym SATC, Greenwald
said. The presentation concludes that by teaming with the NSA’s
division in Latin America, the agency was able to penetrate the
communications networks of high-profile, security-savvy
Brazilian and Mexican targets. The benefits of the exercise
allow analysts to “find a needle in a haystack in a repeatable
and efficient way,” according to the document.  A press official at the U.S. Embassy said any statement
would be handled by the State Department in Washington, where
staffing is limited due to the Labor Day holiday. Rousseff’s
office and the Foreign Ministry declined to comment.  Washington Visit  Pena Nieto didn’t mention the allegations in his annual
 state of the union  address today. His foreign minister, Jose
Antonio Meade, later said that the government is seeking
information from the U.S. Ambassador to Mexico.  Rousseff and Pena Nieto will meet Obama at the G-20 summit
this week in  St. Petersburg . In addition, Rousseff is also
scheduled to be feted at the White House in October during the
first state visit by a Brazilian leader in more than two
decades.  That visit was scheduled before Snowden’s leaks rocked
relations between the Western Hemisphere’s two biggest
economies, leading Rousseff’s government to take its concerns to
the  United Nations  and discuss legislation to restrict data
gathering by U.S. companies in Brazil.  Collecting Data  Cardozo said that in his meetings last week with Biden and
Attorney General Eric Holder he proposed a protocol of
intentions between the two countries to reinforce  Brazil ’s
sovereignty and prevent the U.S. from collecting data in the
country without a judicial order. The proposal was rejected,
Cardozo said.  In a separate document shown by Fantastico outlining the
NSA’s assessment of U.S. geopolitical challenges through 2019,
the rise of Brazil on the global stage is classified as a
“stressor” to regional stability and a potential risk to U.S.
interests. In the document it appears alongside Iran, Mexico,
 Sudan , Egypt and several other countries under the heading
“Friends, Enemies or Problems?”  “The government reaction has to be fast because this is a
delicate problem,” Andre Cesar, director of consulting firm
Prospectiva, said by phone from Brasilia. “Officials have to
show strength. They have to show that they won’t accept this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Goodman in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  