-- TOP Oil Market News: WTI Crude Declines for a Third Day
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-09-02T06:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/top-oil-market-news-wti-crude-declines-for-a-third-day.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  WTI Drops for Third Day as Obama Seeks Approval on Syria Strike  West Texas Intermediate crude fell for a third day after
President Barack Obama said he’ll seek authorization from
Congress before ordering military action against  Syria , easing
concern that an imminent strike would disrupt Middle East oil
exports.  Obama Seeks Congress Approval Before Syria Military Strike (3)  President Barack Obama slowed his march toward war, saying
he’ll seek authorization from Congress before ordering a
military strike against Syria for using chemical weapons.  Hedge Funds Add Bullish Oil Bets on Syria Threat: Energy Markets  Hedge funds raised bullish oil bets for the first time in
five weeks on speculation the U.S. will attack Syria after
saying the Middle East country’s use of chemical weapons killed
more than 1,400 people.  Asia Gasoil Premium Rises, Naphtha Crack Narrows: Oil Products  Asia gasoil’s premium to Dubai crude rises to highest in
more than a week, indicating increased profit from producing
diesel. Naphtha crack narrows.  ONGC, MRPL Said to Sell September Naphtha at $20 to $22 Premium  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. and one its units, Mangalore
Refinery & Petrochemicals Ltd., sold naphtha cargoes for
September loading at $20 to $22 a metric ton more than Middle
East benchmark prices, said two traders who asked not to be
identified because the information is confidential.  Petronas Sets Aug. Tapis Crude Official Price at $116.95/bbl  Malaysian state oil co. raises light sweet grade by $3.50,
or 3.1%, to six-month high, according to prices in e-mailed
statement today.  India’s MRPL Offers Oil Products for Loading From New Mangalore  Mangalore Refinery & Petrochemicals Ltd. is offering to
sell oil products including naphtha, jet fuel and fuel oil for
loading from New Mangalore, according to tender information
obtained by Bloomberg.  Pacific Tropical Storm Kiko Weakening to Depression, Center Says  Kiko continues to weaken near  Mexico ’s Baja California,
according to U.S. National Hurricane Center advisory at about 8
p.m. Pacific time yesterday.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Chennai Petroleum to Shut Crude Unit for Maintenance End-Sept.  56,000 b/d crude distillation unit to be closed for about a
month, Managing Director A.S. Basu says in phone interview
today.  CVR Partners Has Emissions at Coffeyville Plant: NRC Filing  Amonia was released from flare at facility in Coffeyville,
 Kansas , after a malfunction, according to a filing with the
National Response Center.  Phillips 66 Wood River Refinery Released Gas From Water Tower  Phillips 66 released gas, including benzene, from a water
tower at its Wood River refinery in  Illinois  on Aug. 29.  Dow Chemical Reports Possible Flaring at Fort Saskatchewan Plant  Dow Chemical Co. reported planned maintenance may have
caused “low-level flaring” yesterday and Aug. 30 until work is
complete at its Fort Saskatchewan plant in  Alberta ,  Canada ,
according to a message left on a community hot line.  Iran  Abadan Oil Refinery Runs Normally After Petchems Fire: Fars  Iran fighting fire at Abadan petrochemical plant, state-run
Fars news agency reports, without giving details on impact on
plant’s operations or possible casualties.  Chicago Gasoline Premium Swells to 11-Week High on Shutdown Unit  The premium for Chicago gasoline rose to the highest level
in more than 11 weeks after the second-largest refinery in the
U.S. Midwest shut a unit.  Flint Hills Corpus Christi West Shuts Gasoil Hydrotreater  Flint Hills Corpus Christi West refinery had vapor leak on
heat exchanger in the gasoil hydrotreater, according to filing
with  Texas  Environmental Quality  Vitol Sells Jet Fuel; Shell Starts Work at Pernis: Oil Products  Vitol sells two jet fuel cargoes in Europe for total of six
lots this week. Diesel cargoes trade in northwest Europe and
Mediterranean.  Italy’s Milazzo Oil Refinery Halted Compressor for Maintenance  Refinery in Sicily halted compressor after a problem caused
flaring on Aug. 28, says joint venture co. official who declined
to be identified citing policy.  Shell Starts Maintenance at Pernis, Europe’s Biggest Refinery  Royal Dutch Shell Plc started maintenance works at its
Pernis refinery in Rotterdam, the largest in Europe, the company
said on its website.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Are Unchanged  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline, jet fuel or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the Middle East to
 Japan  was unchanged at 10.36 U.S. cents yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  Crude Official Selling Prices and Formulas by Country (Table)  The following table shows official prices, formulas and
relative values for crude grades from the Middle East, Asia,
 Africa  and the Americas. Figures are in U.S. dollars a barrel,
or premiums and discounts to regional benchmarks where plus and
minus symbols appear.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Asian Stocks Climb With Copper on China Data as Syria Sinks Oil  Asian stocks rose for a third day, copper gained and the
Australian dollar strengthened as Chinese manufacturing
expanded. U.S. stock-index futures advanced and crude fell as
prospects of an imminent strike on Syria faded.  Gold Bulls Increase Wagers to Highest Since January: Commodities  Hedge funds and other speculators are making the biggest
bet on a gold rally since January as mounting signs that the
U.S. will lead a military strike against Syria drove prices to a
three-month high.  Rupee Derailing $1.6 Billion Wind Farm Revival: Corporate  India   The rupee’s biggest plunge in 20 years is endangering the
recovery of India’s $1.6 billion wind power industry as higher
finance and import costs negate benefits from a government
subsidy restored last month.  INDIA DAYBOOK: Manufacturing PMI, Reliance, Wind Power, Gasoline  India HSBC-Markit manufacturing PMI for August scheduled to
be released today.  Egypt ’s State Oil Companies Seeking to Restructure Foreign Debts  Egyptian state-owned energy companies are negotiating new
terms and repayment schedules for debts owed to foreign
partners, Oil Minister Sherif Ismail said, as the country tries
to boost output amid political turmoil.  China Solar Makers See Return of Profits as Margins, Demand Rise  China ’s top solar-panel makers are returning to
profitability following two years of losses, after surging Asian
demand drove up margins in the second quarter.  Sinopec to Acquire $3.1 Billion Stake in Apache Egypt Assets (4)  China Petrochemical Corp., Asia’s largest refiner, agreed
to pay $3.1 billion for a 33 percent stake in Apache Corp.’s
Egyptian oil and gas business, marking the state-owned company’s
biggest purchase in the Middle East.  Egypt’s State Oil Cos Seek to Restructure Foreign Debts: Ismail  Egyptian state-owned oil cos discussing new schedule, terms
for repayments of unspecified debts to foreign partners, Oil
Ministry says in e-mailed statement citing Minister Sherif
Ismail.  Kansai Electric to Shut Ohi No. 3 Reactor Today as Planned  Co. will start shutting down 1,180- megawatt No. 3 reactor
at Ohi nuclear plant before 5 p.m. today as planned for regular
maintenance, spokesman Yoshihiro Yamamoto says by phone.  Rosneft to Lose About $20m in Event of Oil Supply Cut to Belarus  Rosneft will “suffer the most” if oil-pipeline monopoly
Transneft cuts supplies to Belarus refineries, Igor Sechin,
chairman of Rosneft, tells reporters in Vladivostok, far east
 Russia .  OTHER MARKETS  Asian Stocks Climb With Copper on China Data as Syria Sinks Oil  Asian stocks rose for a third day, copper gained and the
Australian dollar strengthened as Chinese manufacturing
expanded. U.S. stock-index futures advanced and crude fell as
prospects of an imminent strike on Syria faded.  Yen Weakens Versus Peers as Abe Gets Tax Backing; Aussie Climbs  The yen fell against all of its major peers after
speculators added to bearish bets on the currency and on signs
Japan’s prime minister is making progress on policies that have
helped weaken the currency.  BlackRock Says BOK to Fed Working Against Bonds: Korea Markets  BlackRock Inc. is standing aside while global funds load up
on South Korean bonds, concerned over a central bank battle to
curb household debt and a reduction in U.S. monetary stimulus.  Asian Stocks Rise Third Day on China Manufacturing Expansion  Asian stocks gained for a third day after a gauge of
China’s manufacturing rose to a 16-month high, boosting investor
confidence in the global economic recovery.  Sun Hung Kai Properties Bearish Bets Highest Since 2009: Options  The cost of bearish options on Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd.
rose to the highest in 4 1/2 years on concern that surging
interest rates and government measures to curb house prices will
hurt Hong Kong’s real estate market.  Gold Drops as Syrian Tension Eases; Silver Climbs on China Data  Gold fell as prospects for an attack against Syria receded,
and on bets the U.S. Federal Reserve will start to pare stimulus
as the economy improves. Silver halted a three-day drop as
manufacturing in China sustained an expansion.  Copper Leads Gains in Base Metals as China’s PMI Beats Estimates  Copper led gains in industrial metals after a manufacturing
gauge in China, the biggest consumer of commodities, rose to a
16-month high.  Obama’s Decision Reverberates as Global Critics Sense Weakness  President  Barack Obama ’s decision to seek congressional
authority to attack Syria for alleged chemical weapons use has
dismayed friends, delighted foes and prompted criticism that
he’s undermined U.S. credibility.  Rudd Relies on Queensland Roots as Defeat for Labor Looms (1)  Prime Minister Kevin Rudd’s prospects at this week’s
election hinge on his home state of Queensland, a region 2 1/2
times the size of Texas that’s given federal Labor a majority of
votes just once in 20 years.  SPORTS  Real Madrid Dodges Fair Play Ban With Purchase of Gareth Bale  Real  Madrid  is fueling European soccer’s $2.2 billion
transfer market with its purchase of Gareth Bale, upsetting
authorities who want to rein in spending.  Real Madrid Beats Bilbao as Messi Scores Three; Inter, Roma Win  Real Madrid beat Athletic Bilbao 3-1 in Spanish soccer’s La
Liga before signing Gareth Bale from Tottenham Hotspur on a six-year contract. Lionel Messi scored a hat trick as Barcelona
defeated Valencia 3-2.  Sergio Garcia Leads PGA Tour’s Second Playoff Event by Two Shots  Sergio Garcia takes a two-stroke lead into the final round
of the U.S. PGA Tour’s second playoff event after tying the
lowest 54-hole score in the history of the Deutsche Bank
Championship.  ENERGY PRICES  Last     Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----    ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)      106.10   -1.55  -1.4  Nymex     Oct.
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    112.89   -1.12  -1.0    Ice  October
Gasoil ($/Ton)         953.25  -16.00  -1.7    Ice     Oct.
Gasoline (c/Gal)       285.27   -3.74  -1.3  Nymex     Oct.
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.64   +0.06  +1.7  Nymex     Oct.
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    112.86   -3.31  -2.9    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            310.55   -3.11  -1.0  Nymex     Oct.
Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            82.09    --
Gold ($/Oz)          1,396.10  -1.2
MSCI World Index     1,475.92  +0.2
Prices as of 6 a.m. GMT  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  