-- Oxford Boxing Knockout Shows Abbott’s Leadership Drive
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-09-05T01:16:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/oxford-boxing-win-shows-abbott-s-leadership-drive.html
(Corrects to clarify Abbott joined The Australian
newspaper in 1989 in 31st paragraph of story published Sept. 3)  Tony Abbott  had learned to box only
a few months before that night in 1982 when he climbed into the
ring for the deciding bout in the Oxford-versus-Cambridge annual
collegiate boxing contest. And he faced a taller opponent with a
longer reach.  There are different accounts as to whether the match lasted
30 or 45 seconds. There was no disputing the winner.  “Tony came out like a thrashing machine, hit the guy and
it was all over,” said Phil Crowe, Abbott’s rugby captain from
his days at the  University of Sydney  and the University of
Oxford, who was in the crowd that night. “He just charged and
the other guy had no chance.”  The grit Abbott, 55, showed is about to propel him to the
top job in a $1.5 trillion Australian economy, where growth
slowed to 2.5 percent in the year through March 31. Those who
know him and have chronicled his career say he’s become more
polished and pragmatic even as a combative streak in sports and
politics has helped him weather attacks on his intellectual heft
and faith-driven views. His durability has earned him the
opportunity to lead the opposition for two polls in a row.  “When he became opposition leader the conventional wisdom
was that he didn’t have the right temperament to last, but his
self-restraint and control enabled him to be very effective,”
said Wayne Errington, a political analyst at the University of
Adelaide and co-author of a biography of former coalition Prime
Minister  John Howard . “While that doesn’t mean he will be a
great prime minister, he’s at least proven to be a pragmatist.”  Cutting Spending?  Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition has an eight-point lead
in the polls over Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd ’s  Labor party  ahead
of the Sept. 7 vote. The coalition needs to add only four lower
house seats to end six years in opposition. As prime minister,
Abbott would have to shift from being a critic to laying out a
platform for  Australia , and negotiating with a potentially
hostile parliament on his pledges to cut spending and taxes.  In recent years Abbott, a practicing Catholic, has also
been the target of criticism for his comments about women, which
saw him accused in 2012 of misogyny by Australia’s first female
prime minister,  Julia Gillard . Abbott in an interview on Aug. 29
likened that claim to “mud” being thrown at him.  Born in 1957 in  London  to an English father and Australian
mother, Abbott and his family sailed for Sydney in 1960. His
father, Dick, a dentist, later told  The Australian newspaper 
that when his wife, Fay, was asked about young Tony’s future,
she replied: “He’ll either be the pope or prime minister.”  ‘Good Student’  Abbott attended Catholic schools in Sydney’s affluent
northern suburbs and was elected president of the  University of
Sydney ’s Students’ Representative Council, graduating with a
degree in law and economics.  “He was a good student all round, certainly in the top
bracket,” said John McGee, a Sydney-based businessman who met
Abbott at university and remains a close friend. “I saw a
leader of people and a uniter of people.”  Should he win, Abbott will need those skills to navigate
the economy through a slowing in mining investment that has seen
weaker-than-forecast tax revenues and the Labor government’s
 budget deficit  for this fiscal year blow out from A$18 billion
($16.1 billion) forecast in May to A$30.1 billion in August.
While Abbott has outlined policies he says will save A$17
billion, his task will be complicated by a vow to scrap some
taxes as well as Labor’s carbon pricing mechanism.  Central Bank  Australia’s  central bank  today left its key  interest rate 
unchanged at a record-low 2.5 percent. Shadow Finance Minister
Andrew Robb said in an interview with Bloomberg Television that
the central bank was running out of room to enact emergency
stimulus measures if needed. “The  Reserve Bank  has been relied
upon, or pressured, to do the heavy lifting in the economy for
the last few years,” he said.  To follow through on his promises, Abbott may have to deal
with smaller parties such as the Greens -- strong advocates of
the carbon mechanism -- in the upper house. He reportedly called
 climate change   “absolute crap”  in October 2009, and has
antagonized the Greens with his tough policy on asylum seekers.
Greens leader  Christine Milne  has portrayed Abbott as out of
touch, calling him a “hyper-masculine style of male
politician.”  Family Background  Abbott has spoken of his conservative views that reflect
his family background and lean on the Liberal tenets of
supporting business and deregulation. He’s cited his early
admiration of  B.A. Santamaria , a Catholic-Australian anti-communist who held traditional views on the role of women in
family life, while opposing unrestrained capitalism.  In the 1970s Abbott vowed to replace the Sydney University
students’ representative council’s posters of Che Guevara with
portraits of  Queen Elizabeth II  and  Pope John Paul II .  Abbott has always seen himself as a more traditional man
who is Australian, or “dinky-di”, to his core, according to
Norman O’Bryan, a corporate lawyer in Melbourne who was a fellow
Rhodes scholar with Abbott at Oxford. In the summer, Abbott
would walk around Oxford in the “Aussie uniform” of shorts and
a tank top, O’Bryan said.  Abbott’s views have led him to make comments about women
that political critics say reflects a deeper misogyny.  According to the Australian Broadcasting Corp.,  he wrote  in
the Sydney University student council’s newspaper that “it
would be folly to expect that women will ever dominate or even
approach equal representation in a large number of areas simply
because their aptitudes, abilities and interests are different
for physiological reasons.”  Housewives’ Ironing  In February 2010, talking about the effects of Labor’s
carbon pricing system,  he said : “What the housewives of
Australia need to understand as they do the ironing is that if
they get it done commercially it’s going to go up in price.”  Gillard accused Abbott of making sexist comments. “If he
wants to know what misogyny looks like in modern Australia,”
Abbott “needs a mirror,” she said in a fiery October 2012
 speech in parliament .  “Throw enough mud and some of it sticks, the saying goes,
but the person who throws mud usually gets dirty himself or
herself,” Abbott said in the Aug. 29 interview. He said he
wouldn’t comment on whether Gillard’s attack damaged his
popularity. “The only point I’d make is I’m here and she’s
not.” Gillard was forced out by Rudd in June in a vote by Labor
lawmakers, three years after she had pushed him aside.  ‘Sex Appeal’  Asked by reporters  last month to identify the attributes of
Liberal candidate Fiona Scott, high on Abbott’s list was “sex
appeal.” At the same time he’s promised a paid parental leave
system under which a  new parent  would receive as much as
A$75,000 over six months.  “He’s probably unchanged at heart,” said Eva Cox, founder
of the Women’s Economic Think Tank and author of “Leading
Women.” “He’s betrayed some old-fashioned, conventional
attitudes toward the roles of women but he’s worked out that
they do play a large role in the workplace and as voters.”  Abbott is married to  Margie Abbott , a child-care worker who
grew up in  New Zealand , and has three adult daughters, two of
whom have featured heavily in his campaign. “For us, he’s not
just the guy on TV,” Frances Abbott, 22, said at the  Liberal
Party ’s campaign launch in Brisbane on Aug. 26. “He’s the man,
along with our mum, who’s helped us become the women we are
today.”  Boxing Blues  “He’s more conservative than me, but so what?,” said
Amanda Vanstone, who was a minister alongside Abbott in Howard’s
government. “The notion of needing to vote for someone in your
likeness is narcissistic.” What’s needed, she said, is someone
who “is committed enough to see their beliefs through.”  While achieving  two boxing Blues  at Oxford -- sporting
awards granted for achieving at the highest level -- Abbott was
known for being deeply religious. “He loved to be in the pub
with the boys, but he had another side,” said Crowe. “He was
very much involved with the Jesuits.”  On returning to Australia, Abbott  joined a seminary  in
Sydney in 1984. His bid to become a priest ended three years
later because, as he told Channel 9 in 2001: “I just couldn’t
see myself being celibate for the rest of my life.”  He still attends Mass regularly, unusual in a nation where
only  13 percent  of people who identify themselves as Catholics
do and where nearly half of Australians in a  2009 survey  said
religion was not important in their lives.  ‘Mother’s Convenience’  At 19 he discovered his girlfriend was pregnant. “An
abortion was out of the question,” he said in his 2009 book,
“Battlelines.” The child -- which later turned out not to be
his -- was put up for adoption. Decades later, as health
minister,  Abbott said  that abortion had been “reduced to a
question of the mother’s convenience.”  While Abbott maintains marriage should be between a man and
a woman, in April he said he might let coalition lawmakers vote
on gay marriage according to their personal views. Last year  he
revealed  that one of his three sisters was gay.  In 1987, approaching the age of 30 and with a young family
to support, Abbott needed a job. He chose journalism and was
hired in 1989 as an editorial writer at  The Australian 
newspaper, which is controlled by Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp.  “He took to journalism quite naturally, quite a good
writer,” said David Armstrong, former editor-in-chief at the
paper, who hired Abbott. He was “always happiest doing
analytical and opinionated stuff.”  Abbott’s writing opened doors to  politicians , including to
Howard, in 1990 a shadow minister. Abbott’s political career
began when Howard told his leader, John Hewson, that he knew of
a potential press secretary.  Monarchy Referendum  “I wanted a range of opinions on my staff,” said Hewson,
who led the Liberal Party from 1990 until 1994. “I had Abbott
there as a fairly extreme conservative Catholic.”  After Hewson squandered a strong lead in the opinion polls
to lose the 1993 election to Labor’s  Paul Keating  -- an
experience he said “badly wounded” his press secretary --
Abbott joined  Australians for Constitutional Monarchy , a group
that went on to defeat a 1999 referendum for Australia to become
a republic.  In a 1994 special election, with support from Howard,
Abbott was elected the member for  Warringah , a safe Liberal
district representing Sydney’s northern beaches. He was  promoted
to cabinet  in 2001 as minister for employment and workplace
relations.  Party Branch  Abbott’s rise mirrors the ascension of the New South Wales
branch of the Liberal party, which since 1990 has accounted for
five of the past six leaders, including Howard and Hewson, and
typically produces leaders with more socially conservative
leanings. Former coalition Prime Minister Malcolm Fraser, who
served from 1975 to 1983, said in an  October 2011 interview  with
The Conversation that Abbott was dangerous because he’d taken
the party to “the extreme right.”  He quickly gained attention: Then-Labor leader Kim Beazley
called him a  “bomb thrower”  in December 2000. Then-shadow
employment minister Cheryl Kernot said the way Abbott asked
questions in parliament like a “bovver boy,” or skinhead,
meant “we’ve reached a new low.”  Abbott had an “intellectual aggressiveness,” said Roger
Mastalir, who was in Abbott’s class at Oxford and now works as a
law clerk in Sioux City,  Iowa . In academic circles that could be
“delightful.” “I can see why in other circles it might make
others uncomfortable.”  Effective on the parliamentary floor, Abbott also earned a
reputation as a workhorse. Mukesh Haikerwal, the former
president of the  Australian Medical Association , dealt with
Abbott during his term as health minister in the mid-2000s.  Taking Notes  “He’d always have a little notepad in his shirt pocket
with his pen and would take down notes about what you were
saying,” Haikerwal said. “He was very intent on getting
results.”  Away from politics Abbott kept busy.  Photos appeared  in
newspapers of him wearing only taut briefs as he conducted beach
patrols in his role as a volunteer life-saver.  “Tony is a very ordinary member here; he does his patrols,
he turns up for ocean swims, and lines up like everybody else,”
said Kevin Harris, president of  Queenscliff Surf Life Saving
Club .  Abbott still spends time each year working in remote
Outback communities with indigenous people; as a bike rider he
takes part in the annual  Pollie Pedal , which raises money for
charity. During bush fires in January he reported for duty as a
member of the New South Wales Rural Fire Service.  “He’s got a social conscience,” said Amanda Lynch, who
has worked with Abbott as chairman of the Council of Small
Business of Australia. “His volunteer work is not just for
show.”  Surprise Victory  Still, his ascension to opposition leader surprised some
pundits who didn’t think he was disciplined enough, said Stephen
Stockwell, a professor of journalism and communications at
Griffith University in Brisbane. After Howard was defeated by
Rudd in 2007, the coalition churned through two leaders before
Abbott won an internal ballot on Dec. 1, 2009, by a  single vote .  Even Abbott seemed surprised by that victory, telling a
reporter it was “the last thing I would have expected a week
ago.”  More recently, he said in the interview that his time in
opposition would shape his leadership if he won the election.  “I do think that the people who are most likely to be
successful in government are those who have been successful in
opposition,” he said. “The essential ingredients for success
are knowing what you want to do, having clear principles and
being able to run a good team.”  Corporate lawyer  Byron Koster , who has been riding with
Abbott as part of a group of about 10 Sydney cyclists on
weekends for 12 years, said Abbott’s self-discipline reflects
the more pragmatic man he’s become.  “There are all sorts of views about him being the Mad
Monk, crazy on religion, a head-kicker,” Koster said. “Since
I’ve known him, he’s gone through an evolution. He’s certainly
less conservative and more open-minded. Life’s not simple and
amenable to being put into neat categories, and I think that’s
certainly been part of the process with Tony.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  