-- Lloyds, Nationwide Lead Pickup in Lending Through BOE Plan
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-09-02T13:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/lloyds-nationwide-lead-pickup-in-u-k-lending-through-boe-plan.html
Lending through the Bank of
England’s flagship credit program rose in the second quarter,
led by  Lloyds (LLOY)  Banking Group Plc and Nationwide Building Society,
with banks expecting further expansion through the rest of 2013.  Lending rose 1.6 billion pounds ($2.5 billion) in the
second quarter from the first three months of the year, the
central bank said in a  report  on use of the Funding for Lending
Scheme today. Nationwide and Lloyds lent a combined 3.5 billion
pounds, while  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Banco
Santander SA (SAN) ’s U.K. unit paced declines.  “FLS participants collectively expect net lending volumes
to pick up over the remainder of this year,” while indicators
suggest “credit conditions are steadily improving for
households and firms,” Bank of England Markets Director Paul Fisher said in the statement.  While the figures showed an increase for lending to
individuals, they showed a decline for lending to small- and
medium-sized companies. Banks and policymakers have come under
criticism for failing to extend a lending recovery from
mortgages to smaller firms. Bank of England Governor Mark Carney
said last week that he would relax liquidity rules for some
banks to stimulate loan growth and aid the recovery.  ‘Wary’ Borrowers  “Mortgage approvals have picked up appreciably overall
since the FLS was launched,” Howard Archer, chief European
economist at IHS Global Insight in  London , said in an e-mailed
statement. Weak lending to companies “reflected weak demand as
well as supply factors. There has clearly been low demand for
credit, with many companies still very wary about borrowing.”  Lending is still down 2.3 billion pounds from a year
earlier, before stiffer capital demands that banks blamed for
restricting their ability to extend credit. Total lending fell
2.8 billion pounds at government-owned RBS in the quarter, and
dropped 1.8 billion pounds at Santander U.K. Some 18 participant
banks drew down a net 2 billion pounds from the FLS, while
aggregate outstanding drawings were 17.6 billion pounds.  BOE  data for July  show lending to large companies rose by
1.4 billion pounds, and shrank by 894 million pounds for small-and medium-sized enterprises. From a year earlier, lending is
down 3.2 percent for SMEs and down 3.4 percent for bigger
companies.  Santander Repayment  Lending to individuals picked up in the quarter, though it
shrank for businesses, according to today’s report, as large
companies tap the capital markets if they can.  Nationwide said last week that it will begin lending to
small businesses at “the right time.” The Financial Times had
reported Britain’s biggest customer-owned lender was delaying a
plan to expand into SME loans from this year to 2016.  Santander repaid 900 million pounds to the program as it
sought cheaper funding in wholesale markets instead, the bank
said in an e-mailed statement.  In the year to June, Santander said its business lending
rose 2 billion pounds, while consumer lending fell 10.6 billion
pounds. Capital rules have required the lender to cut
residential mortgage lending by 6 pounds for every pound lent to
a small- or medium-sized business.  Carney Guidance  Carney said last week that the main U.K. lenders will be
allowed to shrink required holdings of low-yielding, easy-to-sell securities, such as government debt, once they hold capital
reserves equivalent to 7 percent of their risk-weighted assets.
That “will help to underpin the supply of credit,” he said.  The FLS started in August 2012 and allows banks to borrow
treasury bills from the central bank to fund lending. Under the
original plan, they had 18 months to use the facility. That plan
also only allowed banks with access to the BOE’s discount-window
facility to use the program.  An overhaul of the FLS in April extended it to January
2015, and allows banks to borrow 10 pounds next year for every 1
pound they lend to small companies this year. If they wait to
extend the loan until next year, the amount they can borrow is
halved to 5 pounds for every pound loaned.  The plan was also expanded to allow access to some non-bank
lenders such as financial-leasing corporations, which provide
credit to smaller companies.  “Although the FLS has not proved to be a miracle cure for
the economy’s credit ailments, there seems little doubt that the
situation would have been worse in its absence,” Simon Hayes,
an economist at  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and a former BOE official, said in
a research note. The program “remains a backstop source of
relatively cheap funding should market conditions deteriorate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  