-- Paris Wheat Rises as Dry Weather Threatens World Grain Supplies
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-09-02T09:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/paris-wheat-rises-as-dry-weather-threatens-world-grain-supplies.html
Milling wheat rose in Paris on
concern global grain output will be smaller than previously
expected amid dry weather in the U.S., even as a report showed
improving prospects for European supplies.  The U.S., the world’s biggest exporter of corn and wheat,
had drier-than-normal weather in Midwest cultivation areas in
the past two months, National Weather Service data show. Rain
yesterday in  Iowa , the biggest corn-growing state, was mostly
less than an inch (2.5 centimeters), according to the
forecaster. In the European Union, where the wheat harvest is
near completion, production of the grain may be 142 million
metric tons, 0.4 percent more than previously forecast, the
International Grains Council said.  “Traders should be torn between bullish news from the
current U.S. weather conditions in the Corn Belt and the bearish
fundamental statistics in Europe,” Arnaud Saulais, a broker at
Starsupply Commodity Brokers in Nyon, Switzerland, said in an e-mailed report today. Recent light rain in Iowa “should not be
enough to improve soybean and corn crop conditions in one of the
most dry states in the Midwest.”  Milling wheat for delivery in November climbed 0.3 percent
to 187.75 euros ($248.24) a ton at 11:16 a.m. on NYSE Liffe in
Paris. Prices are down 25 percent this year on the outlook for
rising global grain harvests as crops in eastern Europe,  Russia 
and the U.S. recover from drought last year. Markets are closed
in Chicago today for the Labor Day holiday.  Egypt , historically the world’s biggest wheat importer,
agreed to buy 355,000 tons on Aug. 31 from suppliers in Russia,
Romania and Ukraine, according to the state-run General
Authority for Supply Commodities. It has issued seven tenders to
buy the grain since the beginning of July, Bloomberg data show.  Corn for delivery in November advanced 2.1 percent to 174
euros a ton. Rapeseed for the same delivery month added 0.6
percent to 383.50 euros a ton. The oilseed has rebounded 8.6
percent from a three-year low on July 31, climbing in tandem
with soybeans traded in  Chicago .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  