-- Premier League Clubs Set for Record Deadline Day: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-09-02T09:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/premier-league-clubs-set-for-record-deadline-day-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Spending Spree  English Premier League clubs may set a spending record for
the final day of the trade period by outlaying more than 200
million pounds ($311.1 million) on players before today’s 11
p.m. U.K. time deadline, the  Daily Telegraph said .  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  and  Manchester United ’s  David Moyes  are both pursuing multimillion-pound targets having failed
so far to make significant additions to their squads, the
newspaper added.  Arsenal Targets  Arsenal is preparing an 80 million-pound spree before the
transfer window closes with the club targeting the signings of
Real Madrid midfielders Mesut Ozil and Angel di Maria, and
Palermo striker Abel Hernandez, the  Telegraph said .  Wenger also is interested in Schalke’s Julian Draxler and
Chelsea striker Demba Ba, the newspaper said.  Arsenal is ready to sign Ozil permanently or take him on
loan, though it may face competition from Manchester United and
Paris Saint-Germain for the German midfielder, who is said to
prefer a move to  England , the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Frantic Day  Moyes faces a frantic day after United’s 1-0 defeat at
Liverpool yesterday reinforced the need for at least one major
signing, the  Guardian said .  Athletic Bilbao playmaker Ander Herrera and Everton pair
Marouane Fellaini and Leighton Baines are targets and Moyes may
have to return to their respective clubs with acceptable offers,
the newspaper said.  Staying Put?  Herrera hasn’t asked to leave Bilbao and won’t try to force
through a move to United, the  Daily Mail said , citing the
Spanish club’s manager, Ernesto Valverde.  The Premier League champion, which bid 25.5 million pounds
for Herrera last week, will have to meet the 36 million-euro
($47.5 million) release clause in the player’s contract, the
Mail added.  McCarthy Move  Everton will make a third bid for Wigan midfielder James
McCarthy as manager  Roberto Martinez  prepares for the probable
sale of Fellaini to United, the  Daily Telegraph said .  Everton’s first offer is said to have been made Aug. 30 and
was turned down, with an improved bid of about 12 million pounds
then rejected last night, the Telegraph added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  