-- Publishing Technology Surges on China Agreements: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-09-02T11:33:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/publishing-technology-surges-on-china-agreements-london-mover.html
Publishing Technology Plc (PTO) , which
serves more than 400 trade and academic publishers and helped
with the distribution of every Harry Potter novel, headed for an
eight-year high after the company boosted its links with  China .  The  shares  gained for a third day in  London , rising as much
as 2 percent to 392.5 pence, and traded at 387.5 pence at 12:31
p.m., which would be the highest closing price since 2005.
The Oxford, England-based company’s stock has quadrupled in
12 months for the second-best performance among the 95 companies
in the FTSE AIM Technology Index.  Publishing Technology and China National Publications
Import & Export Corp. introduced an e-reading platform at last
week’s Beijing International Book Fair. The site already carries
more than 200,000 titles from more than 300 publishers of
academic content.  “The risks to numbers are firmly on the upside, as we have
not included any significant contribution from China in them,”
Rob Sanders, an  analyst  at Westhouse Securities, said in a note
Aug. 30. Sanders raised his 12-month share-price estimate 32
percent to 475 pence and maintained a buy recommendation.  George Lossius, chief executive officer of Publishing
Technology, was appointed to the China Book International
Advisory Board, which gives guidance on exporting Chinese
content to other countries, the company said on Aug. 30. The
U.K. company also formed a partnership with China Law Press to
build a sales, marketing and distribution system.  Publishing Technology clients include HarperCollins,  Oxford
University Press  and the  United Nations , according to its
website. The company was formed in 2007 when Ingenta Plc, an
Internet library for research journals, bought software supplier
Vista International.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net ;
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  