-- Real Madrid Beats Bilbao as Messi Scores Three; Inter, Roma Win
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-09-02T01:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/real-madrid-beats-bilbao-as-messi-scores-three-inter-roma-win.html
Real Madrid beat Athletic Bilbao 3-1
in Spanish soccer’s La Liga before signing Gareth Bale from
Tottenham Hotspur on a six-year contract.  Lionel Messi  scored a
hat trick as Barcelona defeated Valencia 3-2.  Cristiano Ronaldo  got the second goal and Isco scored twice
at the Bernabeu stadium yesterday as Real won its third straight
league game to start the season.  Four-time world player of the year Messi scored all three
of defending champion Barcelona’s goals in the first half at
Valencia, which replied with two goals from Helder Postiga.
 Atletico Madrid  and Villarreal also won at the weekend to
maintain their perfect records.  In Italy’s second round of league games yesterday,  Inter
Milan  won 3-0 at Catania and Roma beat Verona by the same score.
Fiorentina also made it two wins from as many matches with a 5-2
victory against Genoa.  Two days ago, defending champion Juventus had a 4-1 win
against Lazio and Napoli won 4-2 at Chievo.  In Germany,  Borussia Dortmund  is the only team with a
perfect record from four matches after beating Eintracht
Frankfurt 2-1 yesterday.  Among other weekend results, Hanover defeated Mainz 4-1 and
Schalke beat Bayer Leverkusen 2-0.  Defending champion  Bayern Munich  didn’t play a Bundesliga
game this weekend, having beaten Chelsea 5-4 in a penalty
shootout to win the European Super Cup on Aug. 30.  Marseille lost its perfect start to the French league last
night with a 2-1 home defeat to promoted Monaco, which leads the
standings with 10 points. The previous day, Adrien Rabiot and
Zlatan Ibrahimovic scored in stoppage time to lift champion
Paris Saint-Germain to a 2-0 victory against Guingamp.  In the Netherlands, FC Zwolle failed to win its fifth
straight game to open the season by drawing 1-1 at home with
Utrecht. Ajax tied 1-1 at Groningen, while PSV Eindhoven was
held to a scoreless draw by Cambuur two days ago.  Zwolle leads the standings with 13 points, two ahead of
PSV. Ajax is among six clubs with eight points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 