-- Real Madrid Dodges Fair Play Ban With Purchase of Gareth Bale
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-09-02T02:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/real-madrid-dodges-fair-play-ban-with-purchase-of-gareth-bale.html
Real  Madrid  is fueling European
soccer’s $2.2 billion transfer market with its purchase of
Gareth Bale, upsetting authorities who want to rein in spending.  The Spanish team yesterday acquired Bale from Tottenham
Hotspur for 78 million pounds ($121 million), according to a
Real Madrid executive with knowledge of the deal who was granted
anonymity because the clubs didn’t disclose the fee.  European soccer’s ruling body UEFA is implementing
“financial fair play” rules to stop teams spending more than
they earn. While Real will adhere to the regulations by
spreading out the cost of Bale’s fee over the six years of his
contract, the trade hurts UEFA’s plan to make the sport more
sustainable, said Jose Maria Gay, a Barcelona University
accountancy professor who researches soccer finance.  “The gap between the richest teams and the rest in soccer
is widening,” Gay said in a phone interview. “It hardly seems
fair play.”  The British Broadcasting Corp., without saying where it got
the information, put the fee for Bale at 85.3 million pounds,
5.3 million pounds more than the record Real paid  Manchester
United  for  Cristiano Ronaldo  four years ago.  Transfer spending rose 7 percent to 1.65 billion euros
before Bale’s move, according to data collated by Barcelona-based consultant Prime Time Sport and released to  Bloomberg News 
on Aug. 23.  13 Percent Rise  At that level, the value of transfers in  Europe ’s five
biggest leagues in July and August will rise at least 13 percent
from a year earlier, according to Bloomberg News calculations
based on Prime Time Sport’s research. Player trading ends today.  Real Madrid didn’t immediately return a call and an e-mail
seeking comment.  The European player transfer market has increased sevenfold
in value since 1995, according to a February report by Brussels-based policy consultancy KEA European Affairs. An influx of team
owners from  Russia  and the  Middle East  has increased the number
of clubs willing to push up spending on marquee players in the
search for trophies.  Monaco ’s billionaire owner  Dmitry Rybolovlev  bankrolled
more than $175 million of spending on striker Radamel Falcao and
other players. Paris Saint-Germain, owned by sovereign wealth
fund Qatar Investment Authority, acquired forward Edinson Cavani
for as much as $85 million.  Transfer Reform  UEFA President  Michel Platini  said Aug. 30 he wanted to
reduce the length of the two-month offseason trading window and
introduce a “more healthy” transfer system, calling current
fees a “robbery.”  “It’s an opportunity for a lot of people to make a lot of
money,” Platini told reporters in Monaco. “A player is more a
product than a footballer with a whole pile of people trying to
get commissions.”  UEFA’s financial fair play rules seek to stop clubs risking
their future by overspending. The Nyon, Switzerland-based
organization has the power to ban teams from the  Champions
League  next season if they have annual losses of more than 5
million euros over three previous years. Clubs can have losses
of up to 45 million euros if shareholders cover the deficit over
this period.  UEFA General Secretary Gianni Infantino said Aug. 30 the
rules helped slash combined club debt by 35 percent to 1.1
billion euros in 2012, from 1.7 billion euros a year earlier.  Real Madrid typically has annual net income of 25 million
euros, which will allow it to absorb Bale’s fee over the length
of his contract without being banned, according to Gay. Real
took out a six-year, 152 million-euro loan to sign Ronaldo and
Kaka in 2009, and won’t have any difficulty getting bank credit
to finance Bale’s signing, Gay added.  Player of the Year  Bale, a 24-year-old Welshman who was voted player of the
year by his peers and soccer writers in the Premier League last
season, doesn’t yet have a “celebrity” status like past Real
signings Ronaldo and  David Beckham , according to Liam Wong, an
analyst at London-based Brand Finance, which ranks Real as
soccer’s  third-biggest brand .  The record nine-time European champion will try to recoup
as much of the fee as possible -- and the 300,000 pounds a week
the  BBC  said it will pay Bale -- through commercial deals and
jersey sales, Wong said.  “Real Madrid is a commercial machine and will do its best
to turn Bale into a global star,” he said.  Real Madrid President  Florentino Perez  has sanctioned more
than $1 billion of signings since 2000, favoring star foreign
players to boost marketing income and jettisoning Spanish
prospects such as  Roberto Soldado  and Alvaro Negredo, who now
play for Tottenham and  Manchester City , respectively.  Real fans and executives will have to wait to find out if
the investment in Bale, who scored 55 goals in 203 appearances
for Spurs since May 2007, works out in footballing and financial
terms, said former HSBC banker Eugenio Martinez, who sought to
stand against Perez in a 2009 presidential election.  “There’s no doubt Bale is an extraordinary player,”
Martinez said in an e-mail. “Only time will tell if he’s
expensive or cheap.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  