-- Russia Sees Plans for Syrian Peace Talks Dashed If U.S. Attacks
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-09-02T13:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/russia-sees-plans-for-syrian-peace-talks-dashed-if-u-s-attacks.html
U.S. military action against  Syria 
would probably thwart plans for a resumption of talks in Geneva,
Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said as he discounted as
unconvincing evidence of Syrian use of chemical weapons.  “If action announced by the U.S. president does take place
after all, to our deepest regret, then regardless of what has
been said about Geneva II, the prospects of this forum are being
put off for a long time, if not forever,” Lavrov told reporters
in Moscow today.  Russia, a veto-wielding member in the  United Nations
Security Council , has sought to revive talks on a political
transition in Syria after an international conference in Geneva
last year agreed in principle to UN-brokered guidelines to bring
the conflict to a close. Russia and the U.S. cited the Geneva
communique in May as a blueprint for their push for negotiations
between the Syrian government and its opponents.  Russia has stood its ground in defending Soviet-era ally
Syria against accusations it used chemical weapons against
civilians, after U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  last week
accused it of “obstructionism” at the UN. Russia remains
unconvinced by the evidence that the U.S. government has
supplied as proof of President Bashar al-Assad’s involvement in
the chemical attack, Lavrov said today in comments broadcast on
state television.  Assad’s government denies carrying out a chemical assault.  ‘Utter Nonsense’  Russian President  Vladimir Putin , who will host a Group of
20 summit meeting in St. Petersburg Sept. 5-6, said last week
that it would have been “utter nonsense” for Assad to carry
out the assault on the day a team of UN inspectors arrived in
Damascus and his troops were making military progress against
rebel forces.  “I am convinced that it’s nothing more than a provocation
by those who want to draw other countries into the Syrian
conflict, who want to gain the support of powerful international
players, primarily, of course, the U.S.,” Putin said in
Vladivostok Aug. 31 in his first comments since reports of the
attack surfaced. “I have no doubts about it.”  The UN estimates more than 100,000 people have been killed
in Syria since the push to drive Assad from power 2 1/2 years
ago deteriorated into civil war.  U.S. President  Barack Obama , in a surprise move, decided to
seek congressional approval to strike Syria for what the
administration says was an Aug. 21 sarin gas attack by the Assad
government that killed more than 1.400 people. The request puts
off any decision on a strike until at least Sept. 9, when
Congress returns from its summer recess.  Nerve Agent  Hair and blood samples from Syria tested positive for the
nerve agent sarin, Kerry said in television interviews
yesterday. Forensic evidence in the Aug. 21 attack was obtained
by the U.S. from first responders in east Damascus, according to
the top U.S. diplomat.  Evidence of the attack that was shared with  Russia  by
Western nations “absolutely doesn’t convince us,” Lavrov said
today, adding that the intelligence reports lacked geographic
coordinates, names or proof that samples were taken by
professionals.  “There are no facts,” Lavrov said. “When we ask for more
detailed proof, they say it’s all secret and that’s why it can’t
be shown.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  