-- Russian Manufacturing Gauge Signals Contraction for Second Month
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-09-02T08:08:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/russian-manufacturing-gauge-signals-contraction-for-second-month.html
Russian manufacturers reported
worsening conditions for a second month in August as exports
stagnated and employment dropped the fastest in four years, HSBC
Holdings Plc said.  The HSBC  Russia  Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index
rose to 49.4 in August from 49.2 in July, which was a 43-month
low, HSBC said today in a  statement , citing data compiled by
London-based Markit Economics. The median estimate of seven
economists in a Bloomberg survey was for an increase to 50, the
mark that divides contraction from expansion.  Manufacturing weakness suggests recoveries in Europe and
 China  aren’t filtering through to companies in Russia, the
world’s largest energy exporter. President  Vladimir Putin ’s
government is struggling to halt the sharpest slowdown in growth
since a 2009 recession, with policy makers divided over the
Economy Ministry’s decision to cut its 2013 growth forecast.  “A crawling-style shaky growth seems to be the most
plausible scenario for Russian manufacturing looking forward,”
 Alexander Morozov , chief economist for Russia and the
 Commonwealth of Independent States  at HSBC in Moscow, said in
the statement. The survey “still supports monetary-policy
easing, with output growth in manufacturing remaining below
potential and upside risks to inflation staying muted.”  The Micex Manufacturing Index fell 1.2 percent to 1,761.89
as of 10:33 a.m. in Moscow, while the ruble-denominated
benchmark Micex Index advanced 0.3 percent to 1,368.69. The
ruble strengthened for the first time in six days against the
dollar, appreciating 0.2 percent to 33.2535.  Jobless Streak  Employers cut jobs for the ninth time in 10 months in
August, with the rate surging to the fastest in four years,
according to HSBC. A “weak” increase in new orders led to a
marginal rise in output, driven by the consumer-goods industry.  Russia’s economy may expand 1.8 percent this year, down
from an April forecast of 2.4 percent, the  Economy Ministry  said
last week. The government shouldn’t downgrade its forecast for
this year, Andrei Belousov, Putin’s top economic aide and the
former economy minister, told reporters in Vladivostok on Aug.
30.  Economists forecast output will accelerate in the second
half, growing 2.6 percent in the third quarter and 3.1 percent
in the final three months, according to the median estimates of
16 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Shipments by state-run OAO Russian Railways fell 1.3
percent in August from a year earlier, the Moscow-based company
said in an e-mailed statement today. In the year to date,
volumes are down 3.2 percent from 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  