-- Zuma-Connected Gupta Family Bid for Newspaper Stake Fails
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-09-02T15:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/s-africa-s-guptas-fail-in-bid-for-independent-news-stake.html
Sekunjalo Investment Holdings 
rebuffed an approach by the Gupta family, which is in business
with members of President  Jacob Zuma ’s family, to take a stake
in  South Africa ’s  Independent News & Media (INM)  group, according to
Iqbal Surve, Sekunjalo’s chairman.  Surve said he stopped considering bids from the Guptas and
other politically connected entities when the Public Investment
Corp.,  Africa ’s biggest fund manager and part of the group which
owns the Independent group of newspapers, objected to any
changes in the shareholding.  “We will not be allowing any other party to come into our
consortium,” Surve said in a phone interview from Cape Town
today. “We won’t be selling any of our assets, any of our
titles or otherwise.”  A group led by Surve’s Sekunjalo, which includes the PIC,
the company that manages the pensions of South African
government workers, and the  China Development Bank , agreed in
February to buy the South African operations of Independent News
& Media Plc, Ireland’s biggest newspaper publisher,for 2 billion
rand ($196 million). The assets include some of the country’s
best-selling daily newspapers, including Johannesburg’s Star and
 Cape Town ’s Cape Times newspapers.  Johannesburg’s Mail & Guardian, which publishes a weekly
newspaper often criticized by the government, also approached
Sekunjalo unsuccessfully, Surve said.  ‘Political Pressure’  “There are questions whether we are going to come under
any political pressure to take in the Guptas or anyone else,”
Surve said. “I think the PIC is saying it’s a commercial
operation and so they won’t allow any changes in the consortium
no matter who it may be.”  The PIC will “under no circumstances whatsoever” consent
to a change to the shareholding of the Independent group, the
fund said in an Aug. 21 letter to Surve signed by Chief
Investment Officer Daniel Matjila.  The Gupta family has hired one of Zuma’s sons, Duduzane, to
serve as a director on the boards of their Sahara Computer and
Shiva Uranium businesses, while one of Zuma’s wives works for
their JIC Mining Services business.  Mandisa Makinana, a personal assistant to Atul Gupta, a
senior family member, and PIC spokeswoman Namzamo Petje declined
to comment and asked for e-mailed questions when called.  Wedding Party  Their New Age daily newspaper was this year criticized by
the opposition  Democratic Alliance  for being paid by government
utilities to host events to showcase the companies. The family
also started a 24-hour, Johannesburg-based television news
channel last month.  Earlier this year the Gupta’s issued a public apology after
an Airbus carrying guests for a wedding of one of their
relatives in South Africa landed at the high-security Waterkloof
Air Force base near  Pretoria , the capital. The facility is
reserved for use by the military and government. Zuma denied
authorizing the landing and blamed lower-level officials.  Sekunjalo will use its stable of software designers to help
the Independent become a more technologically savvy media group,
simulating what billionaire Koos Bekker has achieved with
 Naspers Ltd. (NPN) , the world’s largest emerging market media company,
Surve said.  “If we do a little bit of what Koos has done, we’ll do
amazingly well,” he said. “We’re buying at the bottom of the
cycle. We’re seeing a fantastic convergence of technology and
print.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  