-- Serbs to Vote on Cabinet Aimed to Lure Investors, Avoid Election
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i c h a e l   W i n f r e y
-- 2013-09-02T07:44:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/serbs-to-vote-on-cabinet-aimed-to-lure-investors-avoid-election.html
Serbian lawmakers are set to vote on
Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s new cabinet, which would push
through painful changes to kick-start the economy and convince
investors it can avoid running out of cash.  Debate on new ministers begins in the Belgrade-based
parliament at 11 a.m. today, while a vote, which has been
delayed for more than a week, may take place late in the
afternoon.  Deputy Premier Aleksandar Vucic’s poll-leading Progressive
Party, which forced the ejection of former Finance Minister
 Mladjan Dinkic ’s junior ruling party from the government in
July, have threatened to trigger early elections if their plan
to close or sell scores of public companies and lure investment
to pull the economy out of recession is rejected.  Dacic told lawmakers last week that the country was facing
“a difficult period” in its fight for the “halt of economic
decline and a fight for every single new job. That’s why I ask
you to support the appointment of new members of the
government,” he said on Aug. 30.  Serbia’s government needs between 1.6 billion euros ($2.1
billion) and 1.7 billion euros to get it through the end of the
year, former central banker and finance ministry adviser Milojko
Arsic told Bloomberg on Aug. 26.  That would mean the the government must try to persuade
investors even as yields on Serbian 10-year Eurobonds hover just
under the 7 percent threshold that prompted some countries to
seek international bailouts in the euro area.  Vucic’s economic adviser, Sinisa Mali, has said Belgrade
would approach the IMF for a precautionary aid deal this month.
The Fund refused to enter into talks in May after Serbia fell
behind on agreed fiscal targets.  Finance Minister nominee Lazar Krstic forecasts the  budget
deficit  will reach 6.5 percent of gross domestic product this
year, almost double an original forecast of 3.6 percent,
Belgrade magazine NIN reported on Aug. 21.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Winfrey in Prague at 
 mwinfrey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  