-- Garcia Leads PGA Tour Playoff Event Heading Into Final Round
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-02T04:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/sergio-garcia-leads-pga-tour-s-second-playoff-event-by-two-shots.html
Sergio Garcia  takes a two-shot lead
over Henrik Stenson into the final round of the U.S.  PGA Tour ’s
second playoff event after tying the lowest 54-hole score in the
history of the Deutsche Bank Championship.  Garcia shot a 6-under-par 65 during yesterday’s third round
at the TPC Boston golf course in Norton, Massachusetts, to get
to 19 under. It was the third straight round of 65 or better for
the Spaniard, who equaled the event’s 54-hole record set by
 Louis Oosthuizen  a year ago.  The tournament finishes on the U.S. Labor Day holiday.  “Hopefully I’ll be able to believe in the way I’ve been
playing this whole weekend,” Garcia, who has eight career PGA
Tour wins, said during a news conference. “If I’m able to do
that I should have a good chance of winning.”  Sweden’s Stenson is 17-under par, one shot ahead of
Canada’s Graham DeLaet and  Steve Stricker  of the U.S. DeLaet
shot a third-round 62 yesterday that included 10 birdies after
he bogeyed the first hole.  Phil Mickelson  is tied for 29th place with defending
champion Rory McIlroy at 8-under par, 11 shots behind Garcia.
 Tiger Woods , who leads the FedEx Cup playoff standings, shot a 1
over 72 yesterday to drop into a tie for 47th at 6 under.  “I had a bad day at the wrong time,” said Woods, who had
four bogeys and three birdies.  Garcia, 33, said he entered the Deutsche Bank Championship
when he feared he wouldn’t be able to qualify for the PGA Tour’s
third playoff event. The top 70 players in the FedEx Cup  point
standings  qualify for the BMW Championship outside Chicago from
Sept. 12 to 15 and Garcia was 55th before this week.  The top 30 in the standings then compete for the FedEx Cup
title and the $10 million bonus at the Tour Championship in
Atlanta from Sept. 19 to 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  