-- Slovenian Bank Hole Increases by Rescue Delay, EBRD Says
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i   a n d   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-09-02T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/slovenian-bank-hole-increases-by-rescue-delay-ebrd-says.html
The size of Slovenia’s bank industry
rescue grows as transfers of failed loans to a state-run “bad
bank” are delayed, the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development’s chief economist said.  After the cleanup, the London-based lender may invest in
Slovenian banks including Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and other
state-owned companies the government has pledged to sell to plug
budget holes, EBRD Chief Economist  Erik Berglof  said in an
interview yesterday at a business forum in Bled, Slovenia.  Burdened by non-performing loans equaling about a fifth of
the economy, the Adriatic nation’s mostly state-owned banks
pushed Slovenia to the brink of a bailout in March after
Cyprus’s rescue triggered a sell-off in weaker euro-region
assets. A dispute with the European Union over Slovenia’s
capital needs and the value of bad assets forced it to miss a
June deadline to start moving overdue loans to a state agency.  “What we know is that the size of the hole is increasing
with each delay,” Berglof said. “I have no information to
suggest there would be further delays. If there were, I would be
worried about that.”  The yield on Slovenia’s dollar-denominated bonds maturing
in 2022 declined 8 basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to
6.63 percent at 3:49 p.m. in Ljubljana yesterday, data compiled
by Bloomberg shows.  Europe-Wide Trouble  Eastern Europe and other  emerging markets  “are being hit
very badly” by expectations of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s
tapering of stimulus, while stress tests at European lenders
“could put new issues on the table,” he said.  Banks led by  UniCredit Spa (UCG) ,  Raiffeisen Bank International
AG (RBI)  and  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  continued to reduce exposure to
former communist Europe in the first quarter even as
deleveraging slowed last year from 2011, Berglof said. That may
continue as European banks still need to trim balance sheets by
as much as 1.5 trillion euros ($2 trillion), according to a July
Ernst & Young LLP report  “The banking sector is in trouble Europe-wide,” Berglof
said. “We are confident that there are considerable holes that
need to be filled. I don’t see as an immediate concern that
there will be a collapse of banks. The main concern is that they
are capable of lending.”  Slovenia’s transfer of bad loans has been delayed until
October, Matej Krumberger, the director of bank supervision at
 Slovenia ’s central bank, said in an Aug. 20 interview. The
government’s estimated 1.2 billion-euro pricetag for the bank
rescue could rise to 1.5 billion euro, central bank Governor
Bostjan Jazbec said on news agency STA on Aug. 28.  Other Assets  After almost two decades of refusing to sell many of its
state-owned banks and other companies, Slovenia has pledged to
reduce the presence of the state in the economy, which is a
drain on public finances, by selling assets to restore market
confidence and attract investors.  The EBRD may invest in Slovenia’s lenders, Berglof said.  “What’s important for us is that there is a framework that
we know what are the rules of the game, what are the
expectations from the government, the banks and the
international institutions,” Berglof said.  The EBRD would look into other assets, he said, provided
there is more openness and transparency among banks, companies
and the state.  State holding company Slovenska Odskodninska Druzba d.d.
agreed on Aug. 30 to sell a 73 percent stake in state-owned
former telecommunications monopoly Telekom Slovenije d.d. and
invited 15 companies to advise.  It is one of 15 state-owned firms, including Nova Kreditna
Banka Maribor d.d., to plug a budget hole that is set to widen
to 7.9 percent of total output from 4 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in  Ljubljana  at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net ;
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  