-- Small-Business Optimism Drops From U.S. to Germany
-- B y   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-09-02T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/small-business-optimism-drops-from-u-s-to-germany-insurer-says.html
Optimism has declined among owners
of small businesses as entrepreneurs in the U.S. and  Europe  find
it harder to increase revenue and secure financing for new
ventures, insurer  Hiscox Ltd. (HSX)  said.  Thirty-eight percent of small-business owners said they
were optimistic about the year ahead, compared to 48 percent a
year earlier, according to a Hiscox survey of 3,000 people in
the U.S.,  Germany , the U.K.,  France ,  Spain  and the Netherlands.
Optimism declined in all six countries, with the highest level
in the U.S., at 50 percent, followed by Germany. The lowest
level of optimism -- 22 percent -- was recorded in France.  Just 37 percent of respondents said that revenue increased
in the last year, with the U.S. topping the survey at 48
percent, and France and Spain relegated to the bottom, with 31
percent and 26 percent, respectively.  Small businesses are “anticipating tough trading
conditions rather than expecting any early return to the boom
years of the last decade,” Hiscox Chief Executive Officer
Bronek Masojada said in a statement. The insurance firm, based
in  Bermuda  with its primary stock listing in  London , has
conducted the survey for five years.  Rather than hiring, small companies are introducing new
products and investing in training, Masojada said.  One in 10 owners said they would increase their workforce
in the coming year. Nearly one-third had developed a new product
or service in the last 12 months - with the U.S. response the
lowest at 19 percent and the Spanish the highest at 39 percent.  Difficult Financing  Securing finance for new ventures is difficult, according
to more than three-quarters of respondents, with only Britons
saying that getting funding is easier than a year earlier.  The Bank of England’s Funding for Lending Scheme, which
gives banks incentives to boost loans, has increased lending to
households and small businesses. Net lending under the scheme
rose to 1.6 billion pounds ($2.5 billion) in the second quarter,
the central bank said yesterday.  Britons were the least critical regarding government policy
toward business, with 54 percent saying bureaucracy is a major
barrier to startups and 58 percent answering that the tax system
doesn’t favor entrepreneurs. Spanish business owners painted a
woeful picture of trust in government, with almost 9 in 10
surveyed faulting bureaucracy and  tax policy .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  