-- SNB President Jordan Sees No Reason to Give Up Franc Cap
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-09-02T08:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/snb-president-jordan-sees-no-reason-to-give-up-franc-cap.html
The cap on the Swiss franc will
remain in place as long as needed,  Swiss National Bank (SNBN)  President
Thomas Jordan said in an interview with the Berner Zeitung.  The Zurich-based SNB imposed the cap of 1.20 per euro on
the franc in September 2011, citing the need to ward off
deflation and a recession. The central bank had already cut its
benchmark  interest rate  to zero.  “I can only repeat: There’s absolutely no reason to give
up the cap,” Jordan said, adding that he expected Swiss
inflation rates to stay low in coming years. “At the moment
it’s the right policy and will be kept as long as necessary.”  Jordan’s comment, in line with what he said at the SNB’s
policy review in June, rebuts the view held by analysts at banks
including Citigroup Inc., who said the SNB could use the franc’s
weakening against the euro to shift the cap in the franc.  Even with the cap at 1.20 per euro, the franc was still
highly valued, Jordan said.  The franc, which investors buy as a haven at times of high
uncertainty, weakened 0.3 percent to 1.2328 per euro at 9:58
a.m. in Zurich. Against the dollar also slipped by 0.3 percent
to 93.31 centimes.  “We’ve never excluded adjusting our policy, if doing so is
necessary to fulfill our mandate,” he said. “But we don’t fine
tune monetary policy.”  The SNB is charged with maintaining  price stability .  Swiss house and apartment prices have soared in recent
years, with mortgages kept cheap by the SNB’s loose policy. The
SNB has repeatedly warned of overheating, and the government is
requiring banks to hold more capital as a buffer, to guard
against rising defaults.  Considering elevated property prices and a mortgage growth
rate faster than economic output “there’s no reason to sound
the all clear,” Jordan said.  The same interview was published in the Bieler Tagblatt,
SNB spokeswoman Silvia Oppliger said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  