-- Stocks in Switzerland Snap Four-Day Drop; Helvetia Climbs
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-09-02T07:26:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/stocks-in-switzerland-snap-four-day-drop-helvetia-climbs.html
Swiss stocks  advanced for the first
time in five days, after the Swiss Market Index posted its
biggest weekly loss in 21 months, as data showed a gauge of
Chinese manufacturing rose to a 16-month high.  Helvetia Holding AG (HELN)  gained 2.9 percent after Switzerland’s
fourth-biggest insurer said first-half profit increased 15
percent, beating analysts’ estimates. Baloise Holding AG
increased 2.9 percent after Berenberg Bank recommended buying
the shares of the country’s third-largest insurer.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and
Credit Suisse Group AG each advanced more than 2 percent.  The  SMI (SMI)  rose 1.3 percent to 7,843.37 at 9:24 a.m. in
Zurich. At a loss of 3.3 percent last week, the measure wrapped
its biggest retreat since November 2011 amid concern that any
military action by the U.S. against  Syria  may escalate into a
larger conflict. The SMI slid 1 percent in August, the second
monthly retreat in 2013. The broader Swiss Performance Index
gained 1.2 percent today.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 15 percent higher than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s manufacturing purchasing managers’ index, the
official government measure of factory output, rose to 51 in
August, beating the median economist estimate and rising from
50.3 in July. HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics issued the
final reading of a separate private gauge today that confirmed
initial figures showing the biggest jump in three years for
China.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said he will ask members of
Congress to back his plan for a military strike on Syria.
Congressional leaders have agreed to debate military action
against the Middle Eastern country once lawmakers return from
their recess on Sept. 9. Britain’s parliament last week rejected
a proposed strike.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  