-- Sumitomo, NGK Picked for Project to Cut Energy Storage Costs
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2013-09-02T07:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/sumitomo-ngk-picked-for-project-to-cut-energy-storage-costs.html
NGK Insulators Ltd. (5333)  and a group led
by  Sumitomo Electric Industries Ltd. (5802)  were picked for a project
aimed at reducing the cost of storage systems that can help
integrate clean energy onto the grid.  Japan ’s government will pay the companies as much as 75
percent of development costs, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and
Industry said in a statement Aug. 29. The Sumitomo group and NGK
will work separately on two different technologies.  “We expect renewable energy to expand once the price of
storage batteries becomes lower and installations increase,”
NGK said in a  statement .  Japan is promoting  energy storage  amid an increasing need
to improve power grids to deal with intermittent power from the
sun and wind after introducing an incentive program last year.
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s government is also pushing storage
batteries for export.  The government has set a goal of cutting the cost to
install systems to store excess energy from renewable sources to
23,000 yen ($234) per kilowatt hour within seven years. That’s
the same as the average cost for pumped hydropower.  Participants will receive financial support for five years
through March 2018, according to the ministry’s website. They’ll
be asked to return part or all of the subsidies depending on
their progress by March 2021.  The ministry has set aside 2.7 billion yen for the fiscal
year through March 31 for the project, ministry official
Takatsune Ito said in a phone interview last week.  Hokkaido Grid Congestion  A ministry report released last year said sodium-sulfur
batteries, the type made by NGK, cost 40,000 yen per kilowatt
hour.  The Nagoya-based company has been trying to reduce cost
through automating the manufacturing process and improving
product performance, spokeswoman Aki Sawafuji said on Aug. 29.  Sumitomo Electric, based in  Osaka , develops batteries which
use the metal vanadium to store electrical energy in electrolyte
tanks.  The company can’t comment on the cost of a system using the
technology because it isn’t commercialized yet, Mitsuyo Tsuruta,
a spokeswoman, said by phone on Aug. 30.  Tsuruta declined to comment on the two other companies
Sumitomo will work with on the project.  In July, Sumitomo was picked to supply a battery system
with 60-megawatt hours of storage capacity to a substation
operated by Hokkaido Electric Power Co. as part of a trade
ministry program to stabilize the flow of wind and solar power
in northern Japan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  