-- Suntech Reaches Understanding With Creditors
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-02T10:09:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/suntech-reaches-understanding-with-creditors.html
Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the
solar company whose main unit filed for bankruptcy, reached an
“understanding” with creditors that will allow a conversion of
debt to equity and the introduction of a strategic investor.  The company expects to enter a restructuring framework
agreement “in the next week or so,” Wuxi, China-based Suntech
said in a filing yesterday. It will immediately start preparing
for recapitalization to bolster its balance sheet, it said.  Suntech is seeking to restore financial stability after
China’s solar-panel industry, which supplies more than half the
global market, became unprofitable amid a worldwide glut. Three
directors quit in August, five months after Suntech’s biggest
unit was forced into bankruptcy following a bond default.  The restructuring process, overseen by Clearwater Capital
Partners and Spinnaker Capital Ltd., will see outstanding debt
exchanged for equity and the introduction of an investor who
will offer funds through buying new shares, the filing shows.  “The restructuring will allow us to cut our costs and
optimize our margins and production,” President Zhou Weiping
said in the statement. “These measures will put us in a better
and stronger position to serve our current and future customers
in  China ,  Japan , the EU, USA and around the world.”  Suntech, once the world’s biggest solar-panel maker,
defaulted on $541 million of bonds this year, opening the way
for bondholders to sue in the U.S. where its shares and notes
trade. Former Chairwoman Susan Wang and two other directors
resigned last month, saying the company had no business plan.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  