-- Syrian Rebels Urge Assad Forces to Defect Ahead of U.S. Strike
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2013-09-02T10:27:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/syrian-rebels-urge-assad-forces-to-defect-ahead-of-u-s-strike.html
The rebel Free Syrian Army says it
is benefiting from a delay in an expected U.S.-led strike on
 Syria  and has guaranteed President Bashar al-Assad’s forces that
they and their families will be unharmed if they defect.  “We are now taking advantage of this delay to make better
plans and have also issued a statement calling on officers of
the Syrian regular army to defect and join our ranks,” Mohammed
Almustafa,  media coordinator for the FSA’s General Salim
Idriss, said by telephone today.  “We have given them guarantees that we will protect them
and their families from getting killed or being harmed in any
way,” Almustafa said. “Those who carried out massacres will be
subjected to a fair trial.”  More than 400 people defected lately, most recently
yesterday in the eastern city of Deir Ezzour, he said by
telephone from an undisclosed location on the Syrian-Turkish
border.  U.S. President  Barack Obama , in a surprise move, decided to
seek congressional approval to strike Syria for what the
administration says was an Aug. 21 sarin gas attack by the Assad
government that killed more than 1.400 people. The request puts
off any decision on a strike until at least Sept. 9, when
Congress returns from its summer recess. Some U.S. lawmakers are
skeptical about the justifications for the attack.  Assad’s government denies carrying out a chemical assault.  The delay has given rebels time to arm themselves better,
Almustafa said. Weapons and other military support for the
rebels have markedly improved over the past two weeks, he said,
declining to say which countries provided the arms and how they
reached the rebels. The Turks and “some Arab countries” have
been especially supportive, he said, without providing details.  The rebel army is confident the U.S. and its allies will
decide to strike Syria, based on its meetings and conversations
with U.S. and European counterparts, Almustafa said. “We don’t
know exactly when it will happen,” he said.  The  United Nations  estimates more than 100,000 people have
been killed in Syria since the push to drive Assad from power
began peacefully 2 1/2 years ago, then deterioriated into civil
war.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  