-- Syrian Hacker Army Calls Marines ‘Brothers’ in Web Probe
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S p i l l a n e   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-09-02T18:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/syrian-electronic-army-calls-marines-brothers-in-website-hack.html
A website for the U.S. Marine Corps
was hacked today with a posting attributed to the “Syrian
Electronic Army” that criticized President  Barack Obama  and
called American soldiers brothers of the Syrian army.  The message said Marines should be allies with forces
fighting for  Syria  and showed five people dressed in army
fatigues holding signs that said they wouldn’t fight for al-Qaeda.  “Obama is a traitor who wants to put your lives in danger
to rescue al-Qaeda insurgents,” according to the posting on the
website, marines.com. “Marines, please take a look at what your
comrades think about Obama’s alliance with al-Qaeda against
Syria.”  The site “itself was not compromised or ‘hacked,’”
spokesman Captain Eric Flanagan said in an e-mail statement on
behalf of the Marine Corps Recruiting Command that operates the
website. “It was redirected for a limited amount of hours
overnight” and no confidential or personal information “was
put at risk,” he said.  Flanagan said that at this point the command can’t confirm
who was responsible for redirecting the site.  The message has now been removed and the website has
returned to normal. The hack follows those on the  New York  Times
and the Twitter Inc. accounts for the Financial Times and ITV
Plc by a group using the Syrian Electronic Army name.  Syrian rebels today urged President Bashar al-Assad’s
officers to defect, seeking to swing momentum in the country’s
civil war during a lull created by Obama’s decision to consult
Congress on military strikes. Obama’s top aides have embarked on
a campaign to win support for an attack on Syria.  The site is separate from the .mil Web address that’s the
Marine Corps official website for information, Flanagan said.  The .mil site wasn’t targeted, according to Flanagan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  