-- U.K. Parties Taking $810,000 Sparks Call for Bequest Clarity
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   T o m   P e n n y
-- 2013-09-02T15:34:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/u-k-parties-taking-810-000-sparks-call-for-bequest-clarity-1-.html
Prime Minister David Cameron and his
deputy Nick Clegg sparked controversy last month after their
parties initially pocketed 520,000 pounds ($810,000) left to the
British government in a retired nurse’s will. Now lawmakers want
the process for donating money to the state to be made easier.  Joan Edwards made headlines after the Electoral Commission
named her as the second- biggest political donor  in the second
quarter. While her will stipulated the money should go to the
government to spend “as they may think fit,” her solicitors,
after consultation with Treasury solicitors and Attorney General
Dominic Grieve’s office, decided it should be given Cameron’s
Conservative Party and Clegg’s Liberal Democrats.  The coalition partners were pressured into handing the
legacy to the Treasury after initially sharing it out between
them as party funds. While the Treasury said it’s reviewing the
way donations are made, there are no plans for a U.S.-style
system to allow benefactors to make donations by bank transfer
or card online.  “With the levels of Internet banking it’s really behind
the times not to have a simple measure to make bequests to the
government,” said Paul Flynn, an opposition Labour Party
lawmaker. “They should make it easier to encourage people to do
that. If they could also choose which department to donate to,
people would be a lot keener.”  The Liberal Democrats were the first to pass on the money
to the Treasury, saying they had accepted the funds “in good
faith.” The Conservative Party said in a statement that the
money will be used to pay off the national debt “to put the
matter beyond doubt.”  Debt Costs  Net debt  stands at 1.2 trillion pounds and government
spending exceeded revenue by more than 116 billion pounds in the
year ended March, a budget deficit of 7.4 percent of gross
domestic product.  The Treasury spent 39.3 billion pounds on interest payments
during the period, meaning Edwards’s gift would cover seven
minutes of debt costs.  “Currently members of the public wishing to make gifts to
the nation can do so by contacting the Treasury or Debt
Management Office and payments can be received by cheque or
direct bank transfers,” the Treasury said in an e-mailed
statement. “The government currently assesses these
arrangements to be appropriate but continues to keep them under
review.”  1970s Crisis  Donations to the Treasury to bolster the economy have long
been a part of British political life. In the 1970s, a time of
economic crisis, Labour Chancellor of the Exchequer Denis Healey
received letters with small gifts of cash from concerned members
of the public.  In the past decade, about 3 million pounds has been donated
to help pay off government borrowing, according to data released
by the Debt Management Office’s Commissioners for the Reduction
of the National Debt.  In 2007, the year the financial crisis started and lender
Northern Rock Plc required a government rescue, the amount
surged to 864,384 pounds, before dropping to only 8,143 pounds
the following year.  In the U.S., donations can be made by card or transfer
online, a system the U.K. has no plans to implement at the
moment.  “I’d be in favor of the state doing more to eliminate the
deficit rather than relying on people making voluntary
donations,” said Conor Burns, a Conservative lawmaker. “We
should be making it more convenient to leave money to charities
who will spend the money better than the state ever would.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  