-- U.K. Says Scottish Households to Gain $7.8 Billion Keeping Union
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-09-02T10:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/u-k-says-scottish-households-to-gain-7-8-billion-keeping-union.html
Staying in Britain would boost
Scottish household incomes by 5 billion pounds ($7.8 billion)
after 30 years, the U.K. government said in its latest report
ahead of an independence referendum next year.  Real incomes in  Scotland  would increase by as much as 4
percent over that period, equivalent to 2,000 pounds per
household at last year’s prices, the Treasury said in an e-mailed statement today. The full study looking at the effect of
independence of borders on trade, migration and economic and
cultural links is due to be published tomorrow.  The report comes after a  YouGov Plc poll  published on Aug.
31 for the DevoPlus group advocating more power for Scotland
showed 59 percent of people plan to vote to remain in the U.K.
with 29 percent supporting independence. That gap of 30
percentage points in favor of the status quo contrasts with a
survey commissioned by the  Scottish National Party  and published
today that put its Yes campaign ahead by a percentage point.  Independence is the flagship policy of the semi-autonomous
Scottish government headed by SNP leader Alex Salmond. The
referendum is being held on Sept. 18 next year.  The Treasury study is the latest in a series of papers on
why the U.K. considers Scotland would be better off staying as
part of the 306-year-old union. Exports from an independent
Scotland to the rest of the U.K. might decline more than 80
percent after 30 years, based on analysis of trade between U.S.
states and Canadian provinces, the report said.  The YouGov poll of 1,171 people found that 16 percent of
those planning to vote yes or who are undecided may change their
minds should the Scottish Parliament in Edinburgh be given extra
powers. The percentage of all voters who have yet to make up
their minds fell to 10 percent, the survey found.  The separate poll by Panelbase showed 44 percent in favor
of independence and 43 percent opposed, the SNP said in an e-mailed statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at  