-- U.S. Spy Report Sparks Outrage as Brazil Demands Answers
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   A n n a   E d g e r t o n
-- 2013-09-04T00:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/u-s-spy-report-sparks-outrage-as-brazil-demands-answers.html
Brazilian officials are voicing
outrage and along with  Mexico  demand the U.S. explain why it
allegedly intercepted the phone calls and e-mails of their
presidents as part of an anti-terror surveillance program.  The allegations were made Sept. 1 by American journalist
Glenn Greenwald, who obtained secret documents from fugitive
security analyst Edward Snowden in May, on Brazil’s most-watched
TV news magazine, Fantastico.  “This represents an inadmissible and unacceptable
violation of Brazilian sovereignty,” Brazil’s Foreign Minister
Luiz Alberto Figueiredo told reporters in Brasilia yesterday
about spying allegations. “This kind of practice doesn’t live
up to the type of trust needed to have a strategic
partnership.”  In one document, the National Security Agency highlights
software that was used to probe Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff ’s communications with several unidentified aides.
Brazil’s government will decide how to respond after it receives
a written response to the allegations from U.S. authorities,
Figueiredo said.  Brazil’s government has no plans to cancel Rousseff’s state
visit to the White House in October, according to a Foreign
Ministry spokesman who asked not to be named because of internal
policy. Newspaper Folha de S.Paulo yesterday reported Brazilian
officials would consider canceling the trip in retaliation for
the alleged spying, citing government advisers it didn’t name.  Text Messages  The NSA also intercepted text messages by Mexico’s Enrique Pena Nieto in which the then-presidential front-runner discusses
two possible cabinet picks, Greenwald said on the Sept. 1 show,
citing a 24-slide presentation. Pena Nieto assumed office in
December 2012.  Mexico’s government is studying the allegations and has
summoned the U.S. ambassador in Mexico City, Anthony Wayne, for
consultations, the Foreign Ministry said in an e-mailed
statement. The government “categorically condemns” spying
against its citizens, it said.  Pena Nieto didn’t mention the report in his annual  state of
the union  address yesterday.  Brazilian authorities want the U.S. to answer their
questions as soon as this week and will file a complaint with
the  United Nations , Figueiredo said. Officials in Latin
America’s largest economy also will reach out to other
developing nations on the matter, including Mexico and the BRICS
group of countries made up of  Russia ,  India ,  China  and  South
Africa .  ‘Some Outrage’  “What struck me about these documents was how personal
they were. They had pictures of them,” Greenwald, who lives in
Rio de Janeiro and writes for The  Guardian newspaper , said in a
phone interview. “I’d think there has to be some sense of
violation and invasion that will produce some outrage.”  Rousseff, after an emergency meeting with Justice Minister
Jose Eduardo Cardozo and other aides Sept. 1, called on the U.S.
ambassador, Thomas Shannon, to provide explanations. The U.S.
envoy, who left a meeting with Figueiredo yesterday morning
without speaking to reporters, will discuss the allegations with
White House officials, Cardozo told reporters.  The Senate is creating a committee to probe the
allegations, according to a statement posted on the upper house
website today. The committee will seek federal police protection
for Greenwald and his partner David Miranda, who last month was
held for questioning at London’s Heathrow airport under the U.K.
Terrorism Act.  Suspend Companies  In meetings with ministers Sept. 1, Rousseff discussed
legislation to suspend companies that participate in spying and
to create a secure internal e-mail network for government
communication, O Estado de Sao Paulo newspaper  reported , citing
Communications Minister  Paulo Bernardo .  Greenwald said the presentation was part of the first batch
of documents he received from Snowden when he met him in Hong
Kong in May. That was before the former  Booz Allen Hamilton
Holding Corp. (BAH)  employee was granted a one-year asylum in Russia
on President  Vladimir Putin ’s condition that he stop disclosing
documents that harm U.S. interests.  In July, Greenwald co-wrote articles in O Globo newspaper
that said Brazil’s telecommunications network, a hub for traffic
from Latin America, was a priority target for the NSA, alongside
China,  Iran  and Russia. The surveillance was facilitated by
associations between Brazilian and American companies, the
extent and names of which Greenwald said he couldn’t verify.  Suspected Terrorists  Shannon at the time denied the report by the Rio de Janeiro
newspaper, telling officials that the U.S. didn’t spy on
Brazilian citizens and only collects records of phone calls or
e-mail messages abroad to pursue suspected terrorists.  “Shannon first said we only look at meta-data,” said
Greenwald. “It was a complete and absolute lie.”  The secret document disclosed Sept. 1 was prepared by a
division of the NSA known only by its acronym SATC, Greenwald
said. The presentation concludes that by teaming with the NSA’s
division in  Latin America , the agency was able to penetrate the
communications networks of high-profile, security-savvy
Brazilian and Mexican targets. The benefits of the exercise
allow analysts to “find a needle in a haystack in a repeatable
and efficient way,” according to the document.  The U.S. government will address Mexican and Brazilian
requests on the spying allegations through diplomatic channels,
said a U.S. official with knowledge of the matter who wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly. The U.S. gathering of intelligence
on foreign countries is similar to practices carried out by
other nations, the person said in an e-mail.  G-20 Summit  Rousseff and Pena Nieto will meet U.S. President  Barack Obama  at the G-20 summit this week in  St. Petersburg , Russia. In
addition, Rousseff next month is scheduled to make the first
state visit to  Washington  by a Brazilian leader in more than two
decades.  That visit was scheduled before Snowden’s leaks rocked
relations between the Western Hemisphere’s two biggest
economies, leading Rousseff’s government to discuss legislation
to restrict data gathering by U.S. companies in Brazil.  Cardozo said on Fantastico Sept. 1 that in his meetings
last week with Vice President  Joe Biden  and Attorney General
Eric Holder he proposed a protocol of intentions between the two
countries to reinforce Brazil’s sovereignty and prevent the U.S.
from collecting data in the country without a judicial order.
The proposal was rejected, Cardozo said.  ‘Very Serious’  The justice minister yesterday characterized the new spying
allegations as “very serious” that if true would be an affront
to Brazil’s sovereignty.  In a separate document shown by Fantastico outlining the
NSA’s assessment of U.S. geopolitical challenges through 2019,
the rise of Brazil on the global stage is classified as a
“stressor” to regional stability and a potential risk to U.S.
interests. In the document it appears alongside Iran, Mexico,
 Sudan ,  Egypt  and several other countries under the heading
“Friends, Enemies or Problems?”  “The government reaction has to be fast because this is a
delicate problem,” Andre Cesar, director of consulting firm
Prospectiva, said by phone from Brasilia. “Officials have to
show strength. They have to show that they won’t accept this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Goodman in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edgerton in Brasilia at 
 aedgerton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  