-- U.S. Group Delays Event With Pena Nieto Amid Mounting Protests
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-09-02T13:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/u-s-group-delays-event-with-pena-nieto-amid-mounting-protests.html
A U.S. philanthropic group postponed
an event for business leaders in Mexico City, where it planned
to host President Enrique Pena Nieto and the U.S. ambassador,
amid mounting protests against the government’s education plan.  The U.S.-Mexico Foundation’s “Shared Destiny Encounter,”
which had been planned for Sept. 10, probably will be
rescheduled for several months from now, Martha Smith, the
group’s president, said in a phone interview.  The move comes after protesters against Pena Nieto’s
efforts to make teachers more accountable for their performance
occupied Mexico City’s main square with tents, shut down roads
to the airport, closed the main historic boulevard and blockaded
the stock exchange.  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , the runner-up
in last year’s presidential election, plans to lead a Sept. 8
rally against an administration plan to open the state-controlled oil industry to more private investment, which he
says would give the nation’s energy resources to foreigners.  “We decided it’s probably a better idea to postpone it for
a few months,” Smith said of the event. “These structural
reforms are of huge importance. It’s not surprising these
reforms have sparked an impassioned debate, and that it’s
spilling over onto the streets.”  Pena Nieto today will deliver a televised address to the
nation that he delayed by a day after 15,000 people marched to
his official residence at Los Pinos from the city’s historic
center to protest the education plan.  The president also canceled a trip to  Turkey  that had been
scheduled for this week in order to focus on the new
congressional session that began yesterday. He reiterated his
plans to travel to  St. Petersburg ,  Russia  for the Group of 20
leaders’ meetings later this week.  The U.S.-Mexico Foundation’s board is led by Jose Antonio Fernandez, chief executive officer of Fomento Economico Mexicano
SAB, owner of a controlling stake in Latin America’s largest
Coca-Cola bottler, and Herbert A. Allen III, president of
investment firm Allen & Co.  It is a non-profit organization with a mission of expanding
opportunity for the Mexican people through bi-national
partnerships and philanthropy, according to the group’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eric Martin  in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 