-- Verizon Will Stay Out of Canada, Spurring Relief Rally
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-09-03T20:57:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/verizon-has-no-interest-in-canada-after-vodafone-deal-ceo-says.html
BCE Inc. (BCE) , Rogers Communications Inc.
and Telus Corp. rallied after  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  said
it wouldn’t expand into  Canada , maintaining the domestic
carriers’ lock on the country’s wireless market.  “Verizon’s clarification of its intentions toward Canada
should enable Rogers to recover much of the lost ground it
recently succumbed to, with Telus poised for at least mid-single-digit gains and BCE likely seeing upside as well, albeit
more modestly,” Adam Shine, an analyst at National Bank
Financial Inc., said in a report to clients yesterday.  Shine and analysts at RBC Capital Markets,  National Bank of
Canada (NA)  and BMO Capital Markets raised their ratings on the
stocks, helping spur the rally. BCE rose 3.9 percent to C$44.86
at the close in Toronto today, the biggest one-day gain since
August 2011.  Telus (T)  climbed 5.5 percent to C$34.50, the most
since August 2009. Rogers jumped 7.2 percent to C$44.59, the
most since November 2008.  Verizon said yesterday it was not coming to Canada after it
agreed to buy  Vodafone Group Plc’s (VOD)  45 percent stake in Verizon
Wireless, giving it full control of the most profitable U.S.
mobile-phone operator for $130 billion in the biggest
acquisition in more than a decade.  “Verizon is not going to Canada,” Lowell McAdam, chief
executive officer of New York-based Verizon, said yesterday in a
phone interview. “It has nothing to do with the Vodafone deal
-- it has to do with our view of what kind of value we could get
for shareholders. If we thought it had great value creation we
would do it.”  Analyst Upgrades  Shares of Canada’s existing wireless companies, including
Toronto-based  Rogers (RCI/B) , began climbing on Aug. 29 as news of the
potential Verizon-Vodafone purchase surfaced, fueling
speculation that a deal would diminish the U.S. carrier’s
appetite for expanding in Canada. The stocks had slumped after
Verizon said in June it was weighing a bid to buy Wind Mobile,
the largest of three new Ontario-based carriers.  “Due to the uncertain rate environment, these yield stocks
might not get back to previous highs over the next few months,
but they should come close,” Chris Damas, an analyst at BCMI
Research in Barrie, Ontario, said in a note yesterday.  Shine increased his rating for Rogers to outperform, the
equivalent of a buy, while Tim Casey, an analyst with BMO
Capital Markets, increased his rating for Telus to outperform.  Market Dominance  Drew McReynolds, analyst with RBC Capital Markets, today
raised his rating for both Telus and Bell to outperform, from
sector perform, the equivalent of a hold.  Today’s surge left shares of Montreal-based BCE 5.2 percent
higher this year, and Vancouver-based Telus 6 percent higher,
while Rogers was little changed.  BCE, Rogers and Telus together account 90 percent of
Canadian mobile-phone customers, even as the federal government
has tried to foster more competition by reserving airwaves for
new entrants and barring the larger carriers from taking over
the smaller companies.  The three biggest carriers vowed yesterday to continue
lobbying the government to change the rules at the next spectrum
action in January. The restrictions limit BCE, Rogers and Telus
to bidding on just one of four blocks of 700-megahertz spectrum,
prized for its ability to penetrate dense urban areas. New
entrants can bid on two prime blocks, which the carriers say
favors foreign companies.  ‘Fair Access’  “It’s never been about Verizon coming to Canada,” Josh Blair, a spokesman for Telus, said in a phone interview from
 Vancouver  yesterday. “It has been and continues to be about
fair access to spectrum.”  The Verizon news is “significant,” said Mark Langton, a
spokesman for BCE, said in an e-mail yesterday. “But the
regulatory loopholes that give advantages to big foreign
carriers remain and should be closed.”  Rogers said it has always welcomed competition. “We have
been asking for a fair and level playing field that treats large
foreign carriers the same as established Canadian carriers,”
Jennifer Kett, a Rogers spokeswoman, said by e-mail.  Verizon’s McAdam said speculation that the company might
try to expand in Canada was “way overblown.”  “The press made much more of our interest in Canada than
there was inside our company,” he said.  One Option  Verizon Chief Financial Officer Fran Shammo said the
company was considering a wireless venture in Canada at a June
Wall Street Journal conference.  “We’re looking at the opportunity,” Shammo said at the
time. “This is just us dipping our toe in the water.”  Bob Varettoni , a Verizon spokesman, said later that Wind
Mobile, was “one of many” options the company was considering.  “We are more committed than ever to offering Canadians a
true alternative to the big three telecoms,” Tony Lacavera,
Wind Mobile founder, said by e-mail yesterday. “We don’t need
Verizon to have a competitive telecommunications market --
prices have already come down almost 20 percent in markets where
Wind operates, and we maintain our long term commitment to
bringing all Canadians more choice for their wireless dollars.”  Industry Minister James Moore said last month he will not
change the timing of the auction or rules on block allocations.
Deposits on the bids are due Sept. 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  