-- Verizon Said to Plan Up to $50 Billion of Bonds for Mobile Unit
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2013-09-02T22:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/verizon-said-to-plan-up-to-50-billion-of-bonds-for-mobile-unit.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  will
probably issue $40 billion to $50 billion of bonds to help
finance its purchase of Vodafone Group Plc’s 45 percent stake in
 Verizon Wireless , according to a person briefed on its plans.  A first offering may exceed Apple Inc.’s record $17 billion
issue in April, said the person, who asked not to be identified,
citing lack of authorization to speak publicly. Along with
borrowing in dollars, Verizon also plans to sell notes in
British pounds and euros, the person said.  Issuance of that amount would surpass an earlier estimate
by Barclays Plc analysts Danish Agboatwala and Parth Shah, who
last week said as much as $30 billion in bonds may be sold,
including $20 billion on dollar-denominated debt and $5 billion
to $10 billion in notes in other currencies.  Bob Varettoni , a Verizon spokesman, declined to comment on
the company’s debt sale plans.  The $130 billion transaction would give Verizon full
control of the most profitable U.S. mobile-phone carrier.
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley, Bank of America Corp. and
Barclays are supplying a $61 billion bridge credit facility,
which Verizon plans to reduce “with the issuance of permanent
financing,” the New York-based carrier said yesterday in a
statement.  Verizon said it expects to maintain finances that are
consistent with investment-grade credit. Moody’s Investors
Service lowered its rank one level yesterday to Baa1, three
levels above speculative grade, to reflect an increase in
leverage, and  Standard & Poor’s  cut its rating to an equivalent
BBB+.  The Wall Street Journal reported the potential size of the
offerings yesterday on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  