-- Water Conference Opens in Stockholm With Wise Supply Plea
-- B y   R a n d a l l   H a c k l e y
-- 2013-09-02T17:40:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/water-conference-opens-in-stockholm-with-wise-supply-plea.html
World Water Week opened today in
 Stockholm  with a plea for the energy, food and water industries
to use scarce supplies more wisely and to clean up contaminated
waters that help cause 5,000 deaths a day.  “Mortgaging our future by draining water from the ground,
surface and sky faster than it can be replaced by nature is
untenable,” said Torgny Holmgren, executive director of the
Stockholm International Water Institute, or SIWI.  Global water consumption is growing twice as fast as the
population, creating supply and demand imbalances, according to
 Xylem Inc. (XYL) , the water company spun off by ITT Corp. Solutions
include conservation, reuse and desalination systems to address
the issue of reduced water quantity and quality, it said.  With the global population due to surpass 9 billion by
2050, “for the sake of the generations to come, we need to
change the way the world uses water,” Holmgren said in opening
remarks to a conference that drew 2,500 water experts, energy,
power-generation, chemical, food and water-technology industries
as well as organizations including the  United Nations .  “For the Palestinian farmers that cannot access water to
irrigate their fields or for the marshes in  Iraq  that are not
receiving enough water, improved and more effective cooperation
is the key,” SIWI authors including Holmgren wrote in a  report 
issued today.  “Lack of sanitation has a direct impact on health,
nutrition, education, women’s and girl’s rights and poverty
reduction,” UN Deputy Secretary-General Jan Eliasson said. “We
cannot accept that 2.5 billion people worldwide lack access to a
clean and safe toilet and that over 1 billion defecate in the
open.”  Private Sector  SIWI called for an emphasis on cross-border cooperative
efforts to avert conflicts in areas including the Middle East
suffering from increased water scarcity and said “an
increasingly important” for effective water development.  Managing state and international waters “often start at
the technical-scientific level before moving into political
cooperation, and thus ‘hydro-diplomacy,’” with dialogues on the
sharing of water and water-related benefits and products such as
food and energy across boundaries, it said.  “Evidence suggests that through proper management water
can become an economic win-win agent and a lubricant of peace,”
the authors wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Hackley in London at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  