-- Western Europe Faces Wet September as Dry Spell Comes to End
-- B y   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n
-- 2013-09-02T14:59:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/western-europe-faces-wet-september-as-dry-spell-comes-to-end.html
Western  Europe  will be wetter than
usual in September, ending Germany’s driest spell in 10 years,
according to weather forecasters.  Rainfall in the U.K. will be above normal levels, according
to Reading, England-based MetraWeather and MDA Weather Services
in Gaithersburg,  Maryland . Germany will get more precipitation
than usual in the third week of the month, according to
Deutscher Wetterdienst, the national weather service based in
Offenbach near Frankfurt, while Meteogroup Deutschland GmbH
predicts above-average rain in France next week.  “A variable pattern, which will be heavily influenced by
ridging over the North Atlantic and western  Russia , will lead to
wetter than normal conditions in the U.K. and Scandinavia,”
Bradley Harvey, operational meteorologist at MDA, said Aug. 28
in an e-mail. “ Germany  is also expected to be slightly wetter
than normal, as are the Balkans.”  The three months through August were the driest in 10 years
in Germany, Europe’s biggest energy market, amid higher-than-usual temperatures that boosted demand for air conditioning and
supported prices. Above-normal rainfall may boost hydro
reservoir levels from a two-year low in the Nordic region, which
gets about half its power output from water.  Temperatures in western Europe should be normal to higher
than average this month, according to Deutscher Wetterdienst,
Metra and WSI Corp. in Andover,  Massachusetts . Germany’s average
temperature for September is 13.3 degrees Celsius (56 degrees
Fahrenheit), based on the 1961-1990 reference period, Deutscher
Wetterdienst said.  “Current signs are for a warmer start of the autumn for
all of Germany,” Kai Biermann, a Hamburg-based forecaster and
head of sales at Deutscher Wetterdienst, said in an e-mailed
report Aug. 30.  Dry Spell  In Germany, 190 liters (50.1 gallons) of rain fell per
square meter in the three months through August, the least in a
decade and compared with a long-term average of 239 liters,
Deutscher Wetterdienst said in an Aug. 29 statement. The average
summer temperature was 17.8 degrees, 1.5 degrees more than in
the reference period, according to the forecaster.  Temperatures in southern Sweden and  Norway  are expected to
be cooler than normal this month while the rest of the Nordic
region will be warmer than usual, WSI said Aug. 21.  French Water  Hydro levels are currently 75.7 percent full in the Nordic
region, the lowest for the period in at least two years, Nord
Pool Spot  data show . In the Alpine region, Swiss hydro reserves
were 75.6 percent full in the week to Aug. 26, according to the
 Swiss Federal Energy Office . That compares with an average for
the week of 84.5 percent, according to data going back to 1997.  Nordic next-quarter power, a regional benchmark, rose for a
second month in August on Nasdaq OMX Group’s energy exchange in
Oslo. German next-month electricity gained a third month and
climbed 4.8 percent to 39.55 euros a megawatt-hour as of 2:17
p.m. Berlin time today, the highest price since Feb. 28, broker
data show.  France  and  Spain  will see more rain than usual in the next
two weeks, Tobias Schaaf, a Berlin-based meteorologist at
MeteoGroup, said by phone today.  The share of French power generated from hydroelectric
plants dropped last month to 13 percent from 17 percent in July
and 20 percent in June, according to data from French grid
operator Reseau de Transport d’Electricite SA compiled by
Bloomberg Industries.  Next month will be warmer than usual across Europe, except
in the extreme north of the U.K., while November will be colder
than normal in most of Britain and the Nordic region, according
to WSI.  “October will be the warmest of the autumn months,
relative to normal,” WSI said. “A very early look at
indicators for the upcoming winter suggest that atmospheric
blocking may be favored again this winter, which would favor
below-normal temperatures across significant parts  of Europe .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Mengewein in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  