-- Worst of Crisis Over for Asian Emerging Markets, Nomura Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-09-03T04:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/worst-is-over-for-asia-s-emerging-markets-nomura-s-ashley-says.html
The worst is over for Asian  emerging
markets  after investors pulled billions of dollars last month on
concern the U.S.  Federal Reserve  will start cutting back bond
purchases, according to  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)   “We’re through the worst of the crisis but it doesn’t mean
individual countries won’t continue to suffer significant
challenges,”  Steve Ashley , London-based head of global markets
at Nomura, said in an interview. “We remain relatively positive
on the longer term performance of risk assets in Asian emerging
markets.”  The outlook for Asian emerging markets remains “very
positive” over the next five to 10 years as the amount of
investments by funds in these countries will likely have to
catch up with the growing size of their economies, Ashley said
in Singapore on Aug. 30.  The market value of shares traded in China accounts for 37
percent of gross domestic product, compared with 107 percent for
stocks in the U.S., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
proportion is 45 percent for Indonesia and 54 percent for India,
the data shows. The  International Monetary Fund  in July
predicted the economies of developing  Asia  will expand 6.9
percent this year, compared with 1.7 percent for the U.S.  Chinese Manufacturing  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Excluding  Japan  Index dropped as much
as 14 percent after Federal Reserve  Ben S. Bernanke  said on May
22 the central bank may start tapering $85 billion in monthly
U.S. bond purchases if the world’s biggest economy improves. The
gauge climbed 0.6 percent as of 11:33 a.m. in Singapore, rising
for a fourth day.  A gauge of Chinese manufacturing index rose to its highest
level in 16 months in August as new orders jumped, adding to
evidence that growth in the world’s second-largest economy is
strengthening after a two-quarter slowdown, according to a
government report over the weekend. The Philippine economy
expanded by more than 7 percent for a fourth straight quarter in
the three months to June, a separate report showed.  The positive outlook for Asian emerging markets provides an
opportunity for Nomura outside Japan, Ashley said. The number of
Nomura clients in Asia excluding Japan for the global markets
division doubled in the past three years, he said.  Since taking on his role in December last year, Ashley, 46,
has pushed to integrate the bank’s 1,800 sales and trading staff
from equity and  fixed income . There are now trading floors
handling multiple asset classes in London, New York and
Singapore, he said, with the one in  Hong Kong  to be set up by
the end of the year.  Closer Collaboration  “The closer collaboration between fixed income and
equities is actually indicative of closer collaboration with all
of the other Nomura divisions -- retail, asset management,
 wealth management ,” he said.  Ashley’s view contrasts with Stephen Jen, co-founder of
hedge fund SLJ Macro Partners LLP, who has said more losses are
likely for emerging markets because investors will withdraw
funds as the Fed pares stimulus. About $44 billion has been
pulled from emerging-market stock and bond funds globally since
the end of May, data provider EPFR Global said on Aug. 23.  The Indonesian rupiah and the Jakarta Composite Index
plunged by the most in five years in August after the Southeast
Asian nation’s  current-account deficit  climbed to a record,
economic growth slowed and inflation accelerated. The  Indian
rupee  fell to an all-time low last month after the country’s
current-account deficit widened to an unprecedented  $87.8
billion  in the fiscal year ended March.  Fragile Sentiment  “What we are seeing in emerging markets is a very fragile
investor sentiment,”  Rohit Arora , a Singapore-based fixed
income strategist at Barclays Plc, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview with  Rishaad Salamat  today. “The focus has
been countries with higher current-account deficits and
investors are questioning how those countries will fund their
deficits in an environment of tight liquidity when the Fed
starts to tighten the monetary policy.”  Indonesia’s central bank unexpectedly increased its key
 interest rate  on Aug. 29 to stem the rupiah’s decline, while the
 Reserve Bank  of India raised benchmark borrowing costs in July.
The two countries have the region’s biggest external funding
needs.  The markets have been “addicted to the methodone of
quantitative easing,” Ashley said. “It needs to wean itself
off, and that’s why we see some turbulence in the markets. For
the longer-term health of financial markets, it’s important that
normalization takes place.”  Normalization Fears  The Fed has kept its target for overnight lending between
banks in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.
Investors see a 59 percent chance policy makers will raise the
so-called federal funds rate to 0.5 percent or more by January
2015, data compiled by Bloomberg from futures show. Yields on
10-year U.S. government bonds surged for a fourth month in
August, touching the highest since July 2011.  “The market shouldn’t be frightened of normalization,”
Ashley said. Historically, “the first half of the tightening
cycle is normally accompanied with reasonable economic growth
and reasonable performance by risk assets. It’s only toward the
end of the tightening cycle that you see a tail-off in risk
asset performance,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  