-- WTI Drops for Third Day as Obama Seeks Approval on Syria
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-09-02T18:06:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/wti-slides-a-third-day-as-obama-seeks-approval-on-syria-strike.html
West Texas Intermediate fell a third
day after President  Barack Obama  said he’ll seek approval from
Congress before taking military action in Syria, easing concern
that an imminent strike may disrupt  Middle East  oil exports.  Futures dropped as much as 3.2 percent, the most in more
than two months. Obama said Aug. 31 that he’ll give lawmakers
the opportunity to debate and vote on the planned military
response to Syria’s alleged use of chemical weapons on residents
near Damascus. Congressional leaders have agreed to take up the
issue once they return from their recess on Sept. 9. The U.K.
last week rejected a proposed strike, capping oil’s advance.  “The postponement of any intervention in Syria while
governments ask their politicians for authorization has taken
some of the steam out of  oil prices ,” said  Christopher Bellew ,
a senior broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd. in London.  WTI for October delivery fell 83 cents to $106.82 a barrel
as of the halt of holiday electronic trading at 1:15 p.m. on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  after sliding as much as $3.44 to
$104.21. The volume of all futures traded was 79 percent less
than the 100-day average. The contract rose 1.2 percent last
week and 2.5 percent in August, a third monthly gain.  Floor trading on Nymex was closed for the U.S. Labor Day
holiday. There were no settlements today, and electronic trading
will resume at 6 p.m. for tomorrow’s trade date.  Brent Gains  Brent for October settlement rose 32 cents to $114.33 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange, having
earlier dropped as much as $1.81, or 1.6 percent, to $112.20.
The European benchmark was at a premium of $7.51 to WTI,
compared with $6.36 on Aug. 30.  “We will see more declines as the market digests that
there doesn’t seem to be imminent action on Syria,” said Robin Mills, the head of consulting at Dubai-based Manaar Energy
Consulting and Project Management. “Prices went up quite a bit
last week on the Syria speculation, so it is due to fall back as
there is no imminent attack or great disruption.”  Hair and blood samples from Syria tested positive for the
nerve agent sarin, U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said in
television interviews as he sought to build the case for
Congress to authorize a military strike.  The U.K. won’t hold a second parliamentary vote on military
action against Syria, Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  told
reporters in London today. Lawmakers rejected Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s proposal for intervention last week.  Intelligence Report  France  remains ready to act with the U.S. against Syria,
the country’s President  Francois Hollande  said after the U.K.
vote. French lawmakers are scheduled to debate a targeted strike
on Sept. 4, though Hollande isn’t legally required to consult
parliament. The French government said in a declassified
intelligence report that the chemical attack could only have
been carried out by the Syrian government.  Syrian President Bashar al-Assad said a U.S. attack on his
country would have consequences across the Middle East, a region
he described as a “powder keg,” according to an interview
published in Le Figaro newspaper.  The Middle East accounted for about 35 percent of global
oil production in the first quarter of this year, according to
data from the  International Energy Agency . Syria borders  Iraq ,
the biggest producer after  Saudi Arabia  in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries.  ‘Eroding’ Fundamentals  Investors should sell Brent if military action in Syria
prompts futures to rise, according to Morgan Stanley.  “Eroding oil fundamentals already point to a weakening of
Brent prices,” Adam Longson, a New York-based analyst at the
bank, said today in an e-mailed report. “Without significant
contagion, we are unlikely to see any real supply disruption
related to Syria.”  Hedge funds increased bullish oil bets for the first time
in five weeks on speculation the U.S. will attack Syria,
according to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
Commitments of Traders report on Aug. 30. Money managers boosted
net-long positions in WTI, or  wagers  that prices will climb, by
4.9 percent to 317,523 futures and options combined in the seven
days ended Aug. 27.  Bets also rose amid worsening output losses in  Libya ,
holder of  Africa ’s largest crude reserves. The country is
producing less than 300,000 barrels of crude a day and exporting
a “nominal quantity” from its Brega and Mellitah terminals,
Deputy Oil Minister Omar Shakmak said today.  Libya Losses  The North African state is producing 150,000 barrels a day,
or about one-tenth of its capacity, after losing 50,000 barrels
in daily output yesterday because of strikes by workers and
security guards over pay and allegations of corruption, Sliman
Qajam, a member of the parliamentary energy committee, said
yesterday in a phone interview in Tripoli.  Hedge funds  and other money managers raised  bullish bets  on
 Brent crude  to the highest in more than two years, according to
ICE Futures Europe.  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 231,962 lots in
the week to Aug. 27, the London-based exchange said today in its
weekly Commitments of Traders report. That’s up 11 percent from
last week and is the most since at least January 2011, the
starting point for the data series.  Gasoline for October delivery slipped 0.92 cent, or 0.3
percent, to $2.8809 a gallon on the Nymex on volume that was 90
percent below the 100-day average. October-delivery ultra-low-sulfur diesel gained 0.15 cent to $3.1381 a gallon. Volume was
88 percent below the average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  