-- YPF’s CEO Says Pemex Would Make Good Vaca Muerta Shale Partner
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2013-09-02T14:39:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/ypf-s-ceo-says-pemex-would-make-good-vaca-muerta-shale-partner.html
YPF SA Chief Executive Officer
Miguel Galuccio said  Argentina ’s nationalized energy company is
willing to form a partnership with  Mexico ’s state-run Petroleos
Mexicanos to develop shale oil and natural gas deposits in the
Vaca Muerta formation.  “YPF is open to generate all the agreements needed to put
in production the huge resources from Vaca Muerta and Pemex
could be a good partner,” Galuccio said in an e-mailed response
to Bloomberg questions.  After YPF sealed its first shale accord with  Chevron Corp. (CVX) 
on July 16, Galuccio said Argentina needs more partners like the
 San Ramon , California-based company to stop a production decline
that contributed this year to the biggest plunge in central bank
reserves since 2002. Energy imports, which doubled to $9.4
billion in 2011 from a year earlier, rose to $10.5 billion in
2012 and are forecast by ex-Economy Minister Roberto Lavagna to
climb to $15 billion this year.  “In order to develop reserves we need investments from
partners to revert the natural decline of fields,” Galuccio
said yesterday. “The development of shale gas and oil requires
a huge amount of cash and the sharing of risks and expertise.”  In April 2012, Argentina’s President  Cristina Fernandez de
Kirchner  seized control of YPF from  Spain ’s Repsol SA. Mexico
City-based Pemex is a minority shareholder in Repsol.  Galuccio said he has had “many business meetings in the
last few months” with Pemex’s CEO Emilio Lozoya. Pemex’s press
office in Mexico City didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail
seeking comment today.  Tax Incentives  Argentina, which holds the world’s second-largest shale gas
reserves and the fourth-largest shale oil reserve, according to
U.S. Energy Information Administration data, is offering tax and
export incentives for energy companies that invest at least $1
billion over a five-year period.  Pemex, the world’s fifth-largest crude oil producer, is
also experiencing a decline in production at mature fields as it
heads to a ninth straight year of falling output. After Pemex’s
July output slid to the lowest monthly level in almost 18 years,
Mexico proposed an energy reform that would end a seven-decade
state energy monopoly on Aug. 12.  Mexico has untapped shale-gas reserves that may be as much
as 460 trillion cubic feet, according to data compiled by Pemex.
The Mexican producer has 175 shale exploratory opportunities
identified in five areas, according to a quarterly presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in  Buenos Aires  at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  