-- Zurich Suicide Aftermath Threatens Ackermann’s Legacy
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-09-03T18:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-02/zurich-suicide-aftermath-threatens-ackermann-s-legacy.html
Josef Ackermann  tried to shake up
 Zurich Insurance Group AG. (ZURN)  Now, allegations that he was partly
responsible for the suicide of the chief financial officer are
casting a shadow over his 35-year career.  Pierre Wauthier, who was found dead on Aug. 26 at his home
near Zug,  Switzerland , mentioned Ackermann in a suicide note.
The Swiss native, 65, quit as chairman three days later and
called the allegations “unfounded.” Zurich Insurance, facing
renewed concerns about its financial health, has since said it’s
looking into whether undue pressure was placed on the CFO.  “No matter which way you cut it, the departure amounts to
a personal failure,” said  Lutz Roehmeyer , a  fund manager  at
Landesbank Berlin Investment, who helps oversee more than 11
billion euros ($14.5 billion). “He’ll be seen either as a bad
guy who forced a person to suicide, or someone who couldn’t push
through what he wanted. This will limit his job opportunities to
companies that wouldn’t normally have come into question.”  As chief executive officer of  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Ackermann
helped transform a German-focused institution into Europe’s
largest investment bank, steering the company through the global
financial turmoil of 2008 and ensuing euro-region fiscal crisis.
In May 2012, he ended his 10-year career at the helm of the
Frankfurt-based lender to return to his home country.  Personal Decision  Ackermann’s resignation as chairman of Zurich Insurance was
his personal decision after the CFO’s family accused him of
sharing responsibility for the 53-year-old’s death, according to
interim Chairman Tom de Swaan. In a statement on Sept. 1,
Ackermann said that “out of respect,” he doesn’t want to make
any further comments about “this tragic event.” On Aug. 29, he
said the suicide had left him “deeply shocked.”  Joerg Neef, a spokesman for Ackermann, said no legal action
has been taken against the former chairman. Bjoern Emde, a
spokesman at Zurich Insurance, said by e-mail that “at present,
we are not aware of any legal action against Zurich in the
context of recent events since Pierre Wauthier’s death.”  Ackermann considered Zurich Insurance a “slightly dusty
place full of officials that needs to be put into shape,”
Tages-Anzeiger newspaper reported on Aug. 30, citing an
unidentified person familiar with the matter.  The company is now seeking to repair the damage to its
reputation, CEO Martin Senn told NZZ am Sonntag in an interview
published on Sept. 1, adding that he had a “good professional
relationship with Mr. Ackermann.” De Swaan has said that he’s
not aware of any inappropriate behavior toward the former CFO.  ‘Broad Sweep’  Charles Dallara , former managing director of the  Institute
of International Finance , who has worked with Ackermann for more
than a decade, said that he doesn’t share the pessimism about
Ackermann’s legacy.  “He is one of the most accomplished leaders of his
generation -- of course leaders are demanding, they have to
be,” Dallara said in a phone interview. “I don’t want to
trivialize what has happened, it is tragic, but when looking at
a career, you have to see it in a broad sweep.”  While the former colonel in the Swiss Army put pressure on
management to improve Zurich Insurance’s performance, he didn’t
consider his efforts excessive, said a person close to Ackermann
who asked not to be identified because the matter is private.  ‘Challenging’ Target  The CFO’s suicide sparked fresh doubts about Zurich
Insurance’s financial health after it missed analysts’ profit
 estimates  in three of the past four quarters and announced a
surprise write-off in October. That forced Senn to tell analysts
on a conference call on Aug. 30 that there’s no link between
Wauthier’s death and the company’s business.  The insurer on Aug. 15 reported a drop in second-quarter
 net income  to $789 million from $1.09 billion a year ago and
said the target for the general insurance business, its largest,
is “challenging.” The profit was below the $823.8 million
average estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, a
second straight miss.  The  stock  has decreased 3.9 percent this year, erasing
about 2.2 billion Swiss francs ($2.4 billion) in market value in
the three days after the CFO’s death was first announced late
Aug. 26. The shares closed at 234 francs in Zurich, down 0.5
percent, the first drop in three days.  “The company is seen as being a bit dusty and boring,”
said Berlin-based Roehmeyer at LBB, which doesn’t own Zurich
Insurance shares and instead holds stock in competitors  Axa SA (CS) 
and  Allianz SE. (ALV)  “Investors should consider the shares a
candidate for their for sale list.”  The insurer is the  second-largest provider  of property-casualty coverage in the U.S., behind No. 1 State Farm Mutual
Automobile Insurance Co. Senn’s company offers commercial
insurance in the country under the Zurich name and has a
management relationship with Los Angeles-based Farmers
Insurance, which sells home and auto policies.  Siemens, Investor  Ackermann still helps oversee some of the world’s largest
companies. He is deputy chairman of  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s biggest
engineering company, and board member of oil producer  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Investor AB (INVEB) , the publicly traded company of
Sweden’s billionaire Wallenberg family.  Ackermann didn’t inform Siemens’s board or senior
management before quitting his post at Zurich Insurance, a
person with knowledge of the matter said. If facts emerged that
he was in any way responsible for the death of Wauthier, it
would be discussed by the board, said the person, asking not to
be identified because the deliberations are private.  Ackermann said in January that he isn’t yet ready to spend
his time playing golf, adding that he enjoys getting up every
morning with a plan to implement an idea or to move something,
according to an interview with Swiss magazine Weltwoche.  ‘Personal Tragedy’  Even if his professional standing survives the allegations,
Ackermann will likely struggle with a personal blow, said
Bernhard Bauhofer, founder of Sparring Partners GmbH, which
advises companies on managing their reputations.  “He’s certainly prepared to deal with critical
shareholders or unions, but this situation is completely
different,” said Bauhofer. “It’s a personal tragedy.”  Ackermann has weathered negative publicity before. In 2004,
he caused a media storm by flashing the victory sign during a
trial to determine whether it was unlawful for him and five
other Mannesmann AG co-defendants to approve more than 57
million euros of bonuses to executives at the German mobile-phone company following its takeover by Vodafone Group Plc.  While he later described the trial as “not pleasant,” he
said what preoccupied him the most was that “a picture of
Ackermann as a person has been painted, which doesn’t correspond
to reality,” according to an interview with  Germany ’s Bild
newspaper in January 2006.  Record Profit  He drew more criticism in 2005, as Deutsche Bank announced
5,200 job cuts as profits rose. Franz Muentefering, Germany’s
former Vice Chancellor, who compared investors seeking short-term gains to the biblical plague of locusts that descended on
 Egypt , criticized Ackermann for trying to bring “profit to the
few at the expense of many,” calling his behavior
“antisocial.” Stern magazine ran a cover page of marching
locusts in business suits, one making the victory sign.  Ackermann rebounded, leading Deutsche Bank to a record
profit in 2007. He underestimated the effects of the U.S.
subprime crisis on the rest of the financial markets and
Deutsche Bank reported its first annual loss since World War II
a year later. Deutsche Bank still weathered the global turmoil
better than many competitors, such as Germany’s Commerzbank AG
and Zurich-based UBS AG, which required state aid.  “High-powered business is in his blood and I can’t imagine
him wanting to give it up completely,” said  Christopher Wheeler , an analyst at Mediobanca SpA in  London  who has tracked
Deutsche Bank for about 14 years. “I am sure he will have many
offers, but the recent publicity clearly may preclude him from
certain roles.”  ‘True Leader’  Ackermann was regularly spotted with government leaders and
regulators in Athens, Brussels, Berlin and Basel, where he
helped shape talks to bail out German lenders, reduce Greece’s
debt, leverage the euro-area’s rescue fund and influence
regulation.  He also led a campaign to soften and postpone tougher
capital and liquidity requirements, warning of job losses and
economic consequences if banks were forced to curb lending. The
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  in 2010 agreed to weaken
and delay its proposals. The changes included phasing in new
rules over a period stretching to 2019.  As the former chairman of the Washington-based IIF, which
represents more than 450 financial firms, he helped negotiate an
unprecedented deal in which investors took losses on Greek
sovereign debt.  “He was a true leader, and not just in Germany,” Dallara
said. “He was widely respected at the IIF. They all looked up
to him. He was and remains a man of great character.”  Next Move  Ackermann started his career in banking at Schweizerische
Kreditanstalt, a predecessor of Credit Suisse Group AG, in 1977
and worked in corporate banking in  New York , foreign exchange
trading and treasury in Lausanne and in  investment banking  at
the firm’s CS First Boston unit in London, according to
Munzinger Archiv GmbH, a German archive company.  He was promoted to Deutsche Bank’s co-head of investment
banking in 1998, two years after joining as head of credit
risks, and took over sole responsibility for the unit a few
months later. In 2002, he became CEO of Germany’s largest bank.  He was succeeded last year by co-CEOs Anshu Jain, the
former head of Deutsche Bank’s corporate and investment bank
unit, and Germany chief Juergen Fitschen.  There are plenty of people who’d like to use Ackermann’s
know-how, said Mediobanca’s Wheeler.  “He might turn up in private equity or maybe at a large
hedge fund in an advisory role,” he said. “His view will
probably be that the situation that has occurred must play
itself out before he makes his next move.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  