-- 2012 Was One of Earth’s 10 Warmest Years, NOAA and NASA Say
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-01-15T22:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/2012-was-world-s-10th-warmest-year-on-record-noaa-reports.html
Last year was one of the world’s 10
warmest years on record going back to 1880, according to reports
from two U.S. agencies.  The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration ranked
2012 the 10th-warmest on record, with an average temperature of
58.03 degrees (14.46 Celsius). It was the 36th consecutive year
to exceed the 20th-century average of 57 degrees, according to
NOAA’s  National Climatic Data Center  in Asheville, North
Carolina.  “The long-term warming trend, including continual warming
since the mid-1970s, has been conclusively associated with the
predominant global climate forcing, human-made greenhouse gases,
which began to grow substantially early in the 20th century,”
James E. Hansen, director of  NASA ’s Goddard Institute for Space
Studies in New York and the lead author on a study of 2012
temperatures, said in the report.  The National Aeronautics and Space Administration ranked
2012 the ninth-warmest year on record. There are small
differences in the data the agencies use, said Thomas R. Karl,
director of the climatic data center.  Last week, NOAA announced 2012 was the warmest year in the
U.S. in records begun in 1895. The nation’s warming trend is a
reflection of both natural variation and the impact of climate
change, according to the climatic center.  14 Warmest  “Including 2012, all 12 years to date in the 21st century
rank among the 14 warmest in the 133-year period of record,”
NOAA said in a statement. “Only one year in the 20th century --
1998 -- was warmer than 2012.”  The most extreme temperatures were recorded in the Arctic
and the middle of North America, according to Hansen’s paper.
The warming in the U.S. was exacerbated by this year’s drought,
the worst on record since the 1930s.  The lack of soil moisture eliminated the chance for
evaporative cooling in the summer, he wrote.  Extreme outbreaks of heat are becoming more common, Hansen
wrote. In 2010 they struck Eastern Europe, including Moscow. In
2011 Oklahoma,  Texas  and northern  Mexico  suffered. Last year an
area from the Rocky Mountains to the Great Plains was abnormally
warm.  Where this record heat will appear depends on summer
weather patterns, he said. The overall pattern “is an
expression of increasing global warming,” Hansen wrote.  ‘Loaded Dice’  “Some seasons continue to be unusually cool even by the
standard of average 1951-1980 climate, but the climate dice are
now sufficiently loaded that an observant person should notice
that unusually warm seasons are occurring much more frequently
than they did a few decades earlier,” Hansen wrote.  The five-year mean global temperature has been relatively
flat, which has caused some people to think climate change has
stopped, Hansen wrote.  It hasn’t stopped, Hansen said in a conference call today
with reporters. A number of factors can explain the flattening
of temperatures, including more sunlight-reflecting particulates
in developing nations, which are burning more coal. He also
cited natural variations in water temperature in the Pacific
Ocean.  Since 2008, La Nina, a pattern of lower-than-normal sea
surface temperatures in the Pacific, has been dominant and
affected the world average, Hansen said. He expects the
temperature to rise the next time an El Nino, or warmer Pacific,
is recorded.  ‘Get Warmer’  “On the decadal time scale it is going to get warmer
because we know the planet is out of energy balance,” Hansen
said during the conference call. “We can predict with
confidence the next decade is going to be warmer than the
present one.”  Last year posted record low sea ice in the Arctic while
having record high amounts in the Antarctic.  Arctic sea ice dropped to 1.32 million square miles on
Sept. 16, the least seen in the satellite era, which began in
1979. Ten days later at the South Pole, Antarctic sea ice peaked
at 7.51 million square miles, which was the most ever recorded.  Ice in the two regions reacts differently because of
geography and weather patterns, Karl said on the call. The
Arctic is an ocean and once the ice is gone the air temperature
warms to match the underlying ocean, while the Antarctic is a
continent surrounded by oceans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  