-- Abe’s Stimulus May Trigger Japan Default, Fujimaki Says
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 2013-01-15T08:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/abe-policies-may-trigger-japan-default-this-year-fujimaki-says.html
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s fiscal
and monetary stimulus measures may trigger a collapse of Japan’s
economy as early as this year, according to Takeshi Fujimaki, a
former adviser to billionaire investor  George Soros .  The yen has slumped 6 percent since elections last month
returned power to the  Liberal Democratic Party  run by Abe, who’s
demanded that the  Bank of Japan  undertake unlimited cash
infusions to end deflation. The premier also unveiled 10.3
trillion yen ($116 billion) in extra spending last week, a step
that will add to public debt that’s already more than double the
size of the nation’s economy.  “Large-scale spending is ridiculous given the amount of
debt Japan has accumulated, while I think highly of Abe in
regards to his intention to weaken the yen to support growth,”
the president of Fujimaki Japan, an investment advising company
in Tokyo, said in an interview on Jan. 11. “Abe’s policies
would have worked some 10 years ago, but now they will only
accelerate an economic collapse.”  Fujimaki said in an interview last June that  Japan  may
default on its debt within five years and the yen could weaken
to as much as 400-500 per dollar. He advised Japanese investors
then to hold assets in foreign currencies such as the greenback,
Swiss franc, U.K. pound and the Australian and Canadian dollars.  Borrowing in yen and investing in those currencies would
have returned an annualized 32 percent as of yesterday,
Bloomberg data show.  Nikkei Surge  The BOJ, scheduled to hold a policy meeting on Jan. 21-22,
is poised to adopt the 2 percent inflation target advocated by
Abe, doubling its existing goal of 1 percent, according to
people familiar with BOJ officials’ discussions. Central bank
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said today the economy remains weak
and the BOJ will pursue “powerful monetary easing.”  The yen’s drop and the government’s spending plan have
helped drive  the Nikkei 225 Stock Average  of domestic shares up
12 percent since the election. A weaker yen makes Japanese-made
products more competitive overseas and boosts the value of
repatriated earnings.  Fujimaki joined the Tokyo office of Morgan Guarantee Trust
Co., which merged into JPMorgan Chase & Co., in 1985 and later
served as managing director and treasurer. He was hired by  Soros
Fund Management , once the world’s biggest hedge fund group, in
2000 and stayed less than a year, saying to  Bloomberg News  at
the time that he failed to read the Japanese  bond market 
correctly.  Yen Weakness  He has since lectured at  Waseda University  and Hitotsubashi
University in Tokyo, and written more than 20  books , including a
title due for release this month that translates to “A
Vulnerable Japan: Objections to Baseless Optimism.”  Japan will issue an additional 8 trillion yen in bonds to
finance the supplementary budget for the fiscal year ending
March 31. The nation’s outstanding debt will swell to 245
percent of gross domestic product in 2013, the most in the world
and twice the debt-to-GDP ratio for the U.S., according to
 estimates  by the  International Monetary Fund .  “The government won’t be able to get enough funding if the
Japanese withdraw their  bank deposits  to buy foreign-currency
assets in fear of further yen weakness,” said Fujimaki.
“Japan’s fiscal collapse could happen even tomorrow.”  So far, the market for Japanese  government bonds  hasn’t
signaled any concern about an impending collapse. Benchmark  10-year securities  sank four basis points to 0.77 percent today,
the least this year and the third-lowest level globally.
Persistent deflation has supported domestic demand for JGBs,
which are 91 percent  owned in country.   Young People  The yen may weaken beyond 400 per dollar should the BOJ
print money to absorb the nation’s debt, according to Fujimaki,
describing a process known as monetization. The yen reached
89.67 per dollar yesterday, the weakest since June 2010, before
rallying to 88.81 as of 5:20 p.m. in Tokyo today.  “I prefer to see a crash of Japan’s debt sooner than later
because there’s no other way to revive Japan’s economy,” said
Fujimaki. “The biggest merit for that is we won’t have to repay
debt that we can never repay. Otherwise, young people will have
to work like coach horses just to pay tax.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  