-- Accused Shooter’s Psychiatrist, Colorado University Sued
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   J e f f   K a s s
-- 2013-01-15T22:47:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/accused-shooter-s-psychiatrist-colorado-university-sued.html
The  University of Colorado  and a
psychiatrist who counseled James Holmes, charged with first-
degree murder for a movie theater shooting that left 12 people
dead, were sued by the wife of a victim of the July rampage.  Chantel Blunk, a Nevada resident and widow of Jonathan T.
Blunk, 26, sued the university and Lynne Fenton, a psychiatrist
employed by the school who had worked with Holmes, according to
a complaint based on negligence and wrongful-death claims filed
yesterday in federal court in Denver.  Blunk claims Holmes told Fenton on June 11 that he
“fantasized about killing a lot of people,” and that on the
same day, Fenton notified the university’s threat assessment
team about him. A university police officer asked Fenton if
Holmes should be placed on a 72-hour psychiatric hold, and she
rejected the idea, according to the complaint.  Fenton “knew that James Holmes was dangerous,” and
breached her duty to use “reasonable care” when university
police “offered to apprehend James Holmes on a psychiatric
hold,” according to the complaint.  The University of  Colorado  Denver “has nothing but
sympathy for the victims of the Aurora theater shooting and
their families, but in our initial review of this case, the
university believes this lawsuit is not well-founded legally or
factually,” the university said in an e-mailed statement.  Trial Ordered  Holmes, who studied neuroscience at the University of
Colorado Denver, must stand trial on 166 counts, including
murder and attempted murder, and will be arraigned March 12,
Arapahoe County District Judge William Sylvester ruled last
week.  The judge delayed the proceeding at the request of Holmes’s
lawyers, who said they need more time to determine an
appropriate plea. Holmes may face the death penalty if convicted
of first-degree murder.  Richard Murray, a lawyer representing Fenton, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Blunk v. Fenton, 1:13-cv-00080, U.S. District
Court, District of Colorado (Denver). The criminal case is
People v. Holmes, 12-cr-01522, 18th Judicial District Court,
Colorado (Centennial).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco 
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kass in Denver at  kassj@msn.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 