-- Macquarie Capital Names Mannolini Executive Director in Perth
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-01-15T01:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/macquarie-capital-names-mannolini-executive-director-in-perth.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  named Justin Mannolini as an executive director of its investment banking
unit in Perth to strengthen its  Western Australia  operations as
China’s economy rebounds and metals rally.  Mannolini was previously a managing director of Perth-based
Gresham Advisory Partners and has worked for 19 years as a
banker and lawyer, Macquarie, Australia’s largest investment
bank, said in a statement today.  Perth became the epicenter of a resources boom as China
began stepping up raw-materials purchases for its soaring
economy about 10 years ago. Australian natural resources
acquisitions increased to $8.4 billion last quarter, accounting
for more than a third of deals in the country, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Iron ore prices have jumped 32 percent since Dec. 4 as the
economy in  China , the world’s biggest importer of the commodity,
shows signs of improving. Growth in China probably accelerated
for the first time in eight quarters in the three months ended
December, according to Bloomberg News surveys of economists.  Perth is the capital of Western Australia, where 37 percent
of companies listed on Australia’s stock exchange are based.
Sydney-based Macquarie has had an office in the city for 20
years, and employs 130 staff in the state across banking,
advisory and asset management, it said in the statement.  Bank of America Corp.’ s Merrill Lynch unit and Zurich-based
 UBS AG (UBSN)  are among international securities firms that set up
offices in Perth in the last decade. Last year,  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  established permanent staff in its Perth office while
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  opened offices in
the city.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  