-- African Force to Take Over Mali Fighting in ‘Weeks,’ France Says
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-01-15T19:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/african-force-to-take-over-mali-fighting-in-weeks-france-says.html
An African force will be ready to
engage in combat in  Mali  “within weeks,” France’s defense
minister said, as French air strikes continued and French forces
continued to arrive in the sub-Saharan country.  France has about 1,700 troops committed to the Mali
mission, with about 800 in Mali itself, and will add to its
forces, Defense Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said at a press
conference in Paris today.  Mali’s army was “badly damaged” in combat with Islamist
militants last week, Le Drian said, suggesting that French
forces may take over some ground fighting as well. While France
so far has used warplanes and helicopters to support Malian
forces, a French light tank company that’s arrived from the
 Ivory Coast  will engage the militants “if needed,” he said.  The French military began air strikes on Jan. 11 to repel
Islamist rebels who had taken control of much of northern Mali
last year and launched an offensive last week toward Bamako, the
capital. The fighting prompted thousands to flee to neighboring
countries and cities in the south, according to the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.  West African defense chiefs met in Bamako today as
countries including Ghana,  Togo ,  Guinea ,  Senegal ,  Burkina Faso ,
 Benin  and Nigeria pledged to send troops for the regional
mission. Nigeria said it will send 190 troops within 24 hours,
with the remaining 710 soldiers of its contingent arriving next
week  “It’s going to be difficult,” Major-General Shehu
Abdulkadir, the Nigerian head of the regional force, told
reporters. “Once the planning is properly conducted and you
have the logistics support that you require, I believe it’s not
an insurmountable problem.” West African heads of government
will meet Jan. 19 in Abidjan.  Kona Recapture  Malian forces have yet to retake the central town of Kona,
which fell to rebels last week before being abandoned after the
French air strikes, Le Drian said.  French aircraft have flown about 50 sorties since their
intervention last week, and strikes are continuing, especially
in the west of the country, he said. Two  Dassault Aviation SA (AM)  F1
Mirages are stationed in Bamako, with six Mirage 2000’s and four
Rafales running missions from Chad, according to the  Defense
Ministry .  France intervened in Mali to “defend the integrity” of
the country, and isn’t defending any economic interests,
President  Francois Hollande  said earlier today.  “This has nothing to do with the practices of another
era,” Hollande said at a press conference in Dubai. “France
has no other interests to defend in Mali. What companies?”  “Our goal is that when we leave, there will be security in
Mali, a legitimate government, and no terrorists threatening the
security of Mali,” he said.  Border Closed  Algeria has closed its 1,400-kilometer (870-mile) border
with Mali, and is allowing French overflights, as is  Morocco ,
Hollande said.  Germany said it may provide transport planes, with the
United Arab Emirates considering humanitarian, material and
financial help, Hollande said.  Belgium  is sending two transport
planes and medical helicopter. British transport planes are
already ferrying French material to the region.  The landlocked nation vies with Tanzania as  Africa ’s third-
biggest gold producer. At least 13 international companies were
engaged in gold exploration and production in Mali in 2010,
according to a U.S. Geological Survey Report. Output of the
metal for the country was 36,344 kilograms the same year.  Political Instability  The rebels exploited political instability in Bamako after
a March coup to seize control of the north. While the insurgents
include Islamists such as Ansar ud-Din and al-Qaeda’s north
African unit, there are also ethnic Touareg fighters seeking
greater autonomy in the region.  Mali is now led by interim President Dioncounda Traore and
Prime Minister Diango Cissoko, who was appointed last month
after the leader of a coup in March, Captain Amadou Sanogo,
forced Cheick Modibo Diarra to resign.  The country ranks 175th out of 187 nations on the United
Nations’ Human Development Index, which measures indicators
including literacy, income and gender equality.  Its $10.6 billion economy contracted 4.5 percent last year
and is forecast to expand 3 percent in 2013, according to the
 International Monetary Fund , slower than the sub-Saharan African
outlook of 5.25 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  