-- AgustaWestland Wins First Wildcat Export Deal With South Korea
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-01-15T11:03:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/agustawestland-wins-first-wildcat-export-deal-with-south-korea.html
Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ’s AgustaWestland
has won a first export order for the AW159 Wildcat after South
Korea said it would buy eight of the helicopters to strengthen
its navy’s ability to combat ships and submarines.  South Korea will receive four Wildcats in 2015 and four
more in 2016 under a 589 billion won ($560 million) deal, the
government’s Defense Acquisition Program Administration said in
a statement. A team of  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Sikorsky
helicopter arm and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , offering the MH-60R
used by the U.S. Navy, was the losing bidder, DAPA said.  AgustaWestland and its U.S. rival are battling over one of
the hot markets for military exports as countries from  Europe  to
Asia look for ways to improve their ability to protect vital sea
lanes. South Korea has had several naval standoffs with North
Korea in recent years, driving interest in strengthening its
defenses.  “The maritime helicopter will be able to carry out a
variety of missions,” DAPA spokesman Baek Youn Hyeong told
reporters in Seoul. “It expands our capabilities against
suspicious enemy ships and submarines,” and can be used for
anti-terrorism operations, he said.  U.S. bidders in South Korea often have an advantage because
of the close military alliance between the countries. In terms
of interoperability, often a deciding factor in South Korean
competitions, the MH-60R scored better than the Wildcat, said
Kim Seung Bok, director of maritime aircraft. However, the
Wildcat offer was more compelling overall, he said.  Operational Suitability  The AW159 came out ahead on cost, operational suitability
and other contractual elements, Baek said. Negotiating
industrial and technology returns that AgustaWestland will
deliver to South Korea delayed the contract announcement, he
said.  AgustaWestland was the incumbent in South Korea, which has
already bought 25 Lynx helicopters, an earlier model. The
Wildcat will provide greater range and lift capability than the
model now in service, Kim said. The helicopter is powered by two
LHTEC CTS 800 engines built by a joint venture of  Rolls-Royce
Holdings Plc (RR/)  and  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)   The commitment is a boost for the Italian helicopter maker
after the MH-60R ousted the Lynx in  Denmark  last year. The MH-
60R also won a deal in  Australia .  The U.K. is lead customer for the Wildcat, with plans to
field 34 for the army and 28 for the Royal Navy. The first
Wildcats were delivered to the British military last year.  The AW159 and MH-60R are squaring off in several other
markets, particularly the Middle East where Saudi Arabia, Qatar,
and the United Arab Emirates are considering purchases. Malaysia
also may add a maritime helicopter purchase to its next defense
plan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in  Seoul  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  