-- Thai Exchange Head Sees IPOs Spurring Further Stock Rally
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   H a s l i n d a   A m i n
-- 2013-01-16T09:58:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/thai-stock-exchange-head-sees-ipos-spurring-stock-rally-in-2013.html
Thai equities , Asia’s second-best
performers in 2012, may extend a rally this year as new listings
and cheaper valuations than most Southeast Asian markets lure
investors, the head of the nation’s bourse said.  Southeast Asia ’s fourth-largest bourse by market value is
expecting at least 30 companies with a combined market value of
$4 billion to join its main and second-tier boards this year,
according to Stock Exchange of  Thailand  President Charamporn Jotikasthira. Companies that sold shares in 2012 had a market
value of $3.6 billion, he said in a Jan. 10 interview with
Bloomberg Television from  Singapore .  Initial public offerings raised about $1.83 billion last
year, the most since 2004, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Newly listed shares on the Stock Exchange of Thailand and Market
for Alternative Investment returned an average 64 percent from
their initial public offering prices last year, according to
data on 23 stocks tracked by Bloomberg.  “Almost all of the IPOs on the SET turned out very well”
in 2012, Charamporn said. “There are more runways to go up”
for Thai stocks, he said.  The benchmark SET Index has gained 1.7 percent this year,
extending last year’s 36 percent advance. The surge in 2012 was
the biggest in  Asia  after a 49 percent jump by  Pakistan ’s KSE
100 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Thai measure dropped 0.5 percent to close at 1,416.14
today. It trades at 13 times estimated earnings, 7.9 percent
lower than the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index’s (MXAP)  valuation.  Fund Raising  The exchange is trying to attract companies with operations
in neighboring countries such as  Laos , Cambodia and Myanmar,
according to Charamporn. CK Power Ltd., a holding company with
hydropower projects in Laos, and a BTS Group Holdings Pcl
infrastructure fund will be among the biggest share sales this
year, he said.  “The booming IPO market has attracted many executives,”
Arthid Nanthawithaya, senior executive vice president at Siam
Commercial Bank Pcl, said in an interview on Jan. 10. “Several
companies are accelerating plans to raise funds via IPOs as
overwhelming demand for new listings cuts equity funding
costs.”  CK Power, a unit of  Ch. Karnchang Pcl (CK) , the nation’s second-
largest contractor by market value, is the biggest shareholder
in a $3.6 billion Xayaburi power project in Laos.  BTS Group, which operates an elevated train system in
Bangkok, plans to set up an infrastructure fund of as much as 60
billion baht ($2 billion) to invest in assets including railways
and toll roads, it said in a  presentation  on Nov. 12.  Attractive Valuations  Even after last year’s rally, Thai equities remain
attractive as valuations are still “on par” with other
Southeast Asian markets, Charamporn said. The SET is as much as
25 percent cheaper than the largest markets in the region. The
benchmark  Philippine (PCOMP)  index is valued at 17.3 times estimated
earnings, Malaysia at 15 times, Singapore at 14.5 times and
 Indonesia  at 14.1 times, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Overseas investors  bought  a net $237 million of Thai
equities this year after $2.5 billion of purchases in 2012,
which was the biggest inflows since 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Thai stock market is  valued  at $397 billion. Singapore
is the biggest in Southeast Asia at $615 billion.  -- With assistance from Anand Menon in Singapore.  Editor:
 Matthew Oakley , Darren Boey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Haslinda Amin in Singapore at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  