-- Airbnb CEO: Designers Deserve Respect Like Engineers
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2013-01-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/airbnb-ceo-designers-deserve-respect-like-engineers.html
Airbnb Inc. Chief Executive Officer
Brian Chesky said that for technology companies, design is as
important as engineering, pointing to the example of former
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  co-founder Steve Jobs.  “When we went to the valley, design was viewed as a huge
liability,” he said yesterday at the Bloomberg Businessweek
Design 2013 conference in San Francisco. “It was not good that
we were designers. What they were really saying is the heart of
a company is its product, and the heart of a product is
technology. And technology is created by engineers.”  Airbnb, a San Francisco startup, has gained popularity by
connecting travelers with apartment and home owners across the
world, providing an alternative to hotels. Founded in 2008, the
company has more than 200,000 listings in 34,577 cities. The
website raised $112 million at a valuation of about $1.3 billion
in July 2011, in a financing round led by Andreessen Horowitz.  The founders have pedigrees that favor design over
engineering. Chesky, who started the company with Joe Gebbia and
Nathan Blecharczyk, graduated from the  Rhode Island School of
Design  with a bachelor of fine arts in industrial design. Gebbia
is an alumnus of the same school, with degrees in industrial and
graphic design, while Blecharczyk has a computer science degree
from Harvard University.  Chesky brought up the late Steve Jobs, who he said created
a company worth more than $470 billion by applying “the
thinking of a designer to every part of the business.”  Design Solution  That kind of thinking, Chesky says, will help resolve
Airbnb’s standoff with local governments, which have been trying
to extract taxes from bookings made on its website.  Under a 2011  New York  state law, residents can rent out
rooms in apartments they occupy, but not the entire space. While
Airbnb features entire apartments for rent on a short-term
basis, hosts are responsible for complying with local laws. In
 California , the company has been battling the city of San
Francisco, which says that hotel taxes -- at 14 percent --
should apply to those renting out their residences.  “We’re navigating a world of very uncertain and fragmented
laws in many cities,” Chesky said. “We have to think broadly
and very differently and holistically about government
relations. It’s not just about meeting with government
officials. It’s about solving a design problem -- if we have
problems in governments, that’s a design problem we need to
solve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  