-- Malawi Currency Fall Fuels Protests as Banda Courts IMF
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m   a n d   F r a n k   J o m o
-- 2013-01-16T13:17:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/malawi-currency-fall-fuels-protests-as-banda-courts-imf.html
Malawi’s President Joyce Banda
faces her biggest test since coming to power with nationwide
protests planned against a currency devaluation and inflation.  The Consumer Association of Malawi has organized a march in
the commercial hub of Blantyre tomorrow to draw attention to an
inflation rate that’s reached 33 percent and the kwacha’s
collapse. Similar demonstrations are being planned in the
capital Lilongwe and Mzuzu in the north.  A month after Banda, 62, took office in April, she devalued
the kwacha by a third against the dollar to meet conditions set
by the  International Monetary Fund  for a resumption of donor
aid. Since then, the currency has lost 29 percent, making it the
worst-performing unit in  Africa . While Banda has been hailed by
the IMF for economic reforms including deregulating fuel prices,
her support at home is waning as costs soar.  “Malawians had a lot of expectations when Banda became
president, but there hasn’t been significant economic
improvement,” Simiso Velempini, an analyst at  Control Risks
Group  in  London , said by phone. “She had considerable goodwill
when she came to power, but some has been lost.”  Malawi is Africa’s biggest exporter of burley tobacco, a
low-grade variety of the crop, and Limbe Leaf Tobacco Co., a
unit of the U.S.-based  Universal Corp. (UVV) ,  Alliance One
International Inc. (AOI)  and  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  are among buyers in
the country. About half of the population of 15 million live on
less than $1 a day, according to the IMF, while the government
relies on donor funds to finance 40 percent of its budget.  Currency Shortages  Banda, Africa’s second sitting female president after
Liberia’s Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, succeeded Bingu wa Mutharika
after his death in office in April. The former leader had
alienated donors by refusing to devalue the kwacha, causing fuel
and foreign-currency shortages, and cracking down on critics. In
2011, Mutharika expelled the U.K.’s envoy after reports that
he’d criticized the president for his autocratic behavior.  In July 2011, 22 people died when police clashed with
protesters, prompting the U.S. to stop aid to the country. Banda
promised to mend relations with donors, fix the economy and curb
corruption when she took office.  The Public Affairs Committee, Centre for  Human Rights  and
Rehabilitation and the Malawi Council of Churches -- the three
groups that led the protests three years ago -- have called on
the Consumer Association of Malawi to forego demonstrations and
instead hold talks with government.  Earnings Slump  John Kapito, executive director of the consumer group, said
on Jan. 14 the protests will take place every month until the
government responds to its demands, including Banda cutting her
travel spending.  “Business is bad,” Anthony Chisale, a 38-year-old  taxi
driver , said in an interview yesterday in Blantyre. “Our daily
earnings have slumped significantly. People are now walking
instead of taking taxis because they don’t have enough money in
their pockets.” Chisale collects about a third less in daily
fares since fuel costs climbed and passenger numbers dropped.  Inflation accelerated to 33 percent in November from 30.6
percent in the previous month, while gasoline costs have climbed
69 percent since the devaluation. The  Reserve Bank  of Malawi
raised its benchmark  interest rate  on Dec. 4 by 4 percentage
points to 25 percent, the highest in six years.  Banda said on Dec. 31 that while the currency’s
depreciation had resulted in economic suffering for many,
reversing the devaluation would be “suicidal.”  Kwacha Value  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  hailed Banda during
a visit to Malawi this month, congratulating her “bold economic
policies” and urging the government to “stay the course, while
putting in place social protection programs to alleviate the
impact of the adjustment measures on the poorest households.”  The kwacha gained 1.2 percent to 344.30 a dollar as of 3:12
p.m. in Lilongwe today.  “The foreign-exchange problem in Malawi is likely to be a
fairly long-term difficulty,”  Razia Khan , head of economic
research at Standard Chartered Plc in London, said in a phone
interview. “Businesses are reporting that it’s very difficult
to buy dollars with kwacha.”  Food shortages have aggravated consumers’ woes. About 2
million Malawians are without adequate food after dry weather
cut harvests, forcing the government to increase aid to
vulnerable families, Banda said on Dec. 31. Malawi’s economic
outlook is threatened by a slump in agriculture, which makes up
30 percent of gross domestic product, Lagarde said on Jan. 5.  Euphoria Wanes  Banda’s refusal to reverse her policies even as discontent
mounts may undermine her support in a national election
scheduled for 2014.  “The problem with our president is that she is busy
marketing herself, building her profile as Joyce Banda the
person, while neglecting the larger picture which is the
government,” Billy Banda, executive director of Malawi Watch, a
human rights organization, said in a phone interview. “The
reforms are taking time to register positive results and this is
frustrating many Malawians. The euphoria people had after she
took over government has waned. If she is not careful, this will
cost her dearly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Jomo in Blantyre at 
 fjomo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  