-- Allianz Reinsurer Wins Brazil Reinsurance License
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-01-15T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/allianz-reinsurer-wins-brazil-reinsurance-license.html
Allianz (ALV)  SE, Europe’s largest
insurer, won a license from Brazilian regulators to set up a
reinsurer in the South American nation as the company expands
underwriting in  emerging markets .  Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty, the unit of Munich-
based Allianz that underwrites marine, aviation and corporate
risks, opened offices in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo in
connection with getting the license, according to a statement
today from the German company.  Reinsurers such as Swiss Re Ltd. and  Munich Re  have
expanded in Brazil since the country ended a 69-year government
monopoly on the market in 2008. Spending on infrastructure, a
commodities boom and the expansion of oil and gas exploration
has helped drive demand for reinsurance, which primary carriers
buy to protect themselves against the costliest risks.  Those investments “will create many opportunities,”
Drault Ernanny, a senior vice president at AGCS in  Rio de
Janeiro  responsible for business development in the country,
said in a phone interview. “We see Brazil as a hub for  South
America .”  Allianz is looking at countries including Peru and Colombia
to boost premiums on the continent, he said. AGCS has set a goal
of reaching more than 350 million euros ($468 million) in policy
sales in South America by 2015, with Brazil representing about
half of that, according to the statement.  Brazil’s economy may be bolstered in coming years by
production from the country’s so-called pre-salt oilfields. The
country has been upgrading airports while building stadiums and
other projects ahead of hosting the 2014 World Cup soccer
tournament and 2016 Summer Olympics.  Economy Slows  President  Dilma Rousseff  called on businesses last month to
increase investments as the country’s economy slows amid the
European debt crisis and lower Chinese demand for commodities.
The central bank estimates growth was 1 percent last year, which
would be down from 2.7 percent in 2011 and  7.5 percent  the prior
year.  Allianz was a so-called admitted reinsurer in Brazil prior
to winning the license. That meant the company held capital
outside the country and had to cede some of its business to
local firms, Ernanny said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net  