-- AMR Workers Reject Union After Legal Battle to Hold Vote
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-01-16T01:33:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/amr-says-workers-reject-union-after-legal-battle-to-hold-vote.html
American Airlines passenger service
workers voted against joining the Communications Workers of
America, after the union won a legal battle to hold an election.  The workers rejected representation by the union by a vote
of 51 percent to 49 percent, the Fort Worth, Texas-based carrier
said.  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American has about 9,700 passenger service
agents, who work at airport ticket counters, gates and baggage
areas, the union said. American put the number eligible to vote
at almost 7,900.  The result means American will have one fewer union to deal
with as it completes bankruptcy restructuring, either
independently or through a merger with  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) 
American is cutting $1.06 billion a year from labor costs, which
it blamed for helping push the company into court protection on
Nov. 29, 2011.  “Hundreds of agents at American Airlines have been active
in this fight for a union for more than 15 years, and they won’t
stop now,” the Communications Workers said in a statement.
“There is no doubt that this group will get the union voice
they want.”  US Airways passenger service agents are represented by a
union, and a merger would give their counterparts at American
another chance at representation, the statement said.  ‘Work Closely’  “The company looks forward to continuing to work closely
and directly with our agents and representatives as we build the
new American Airlines,” Missy Cousino, a spokeswoman for the
carrier, said in an e-mailed statement.  American disagreed with the CWA over the amount of support
the union needed among workers to hold a representation vote.
The union petitioned the National Mediation Board in December
2011 to stage an election, after collecting signatures of
support from at least 35 percent of those eligible to vote, the
minimum required by the agency.  In February 2012, Congress raised the threshold to 50
percent. When the mediation board said the vote could proceed
under the previous standard, American appealed to a federal
district court, which agreed to block balloting.  The CWA won an appeal before the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals, and the airline filed papers with the Supreme Court on
Nov. 21 asking that the election be delayed until the case could
be heard. Justice Antonin Scalia denied the stay on Nov. 27.  AMR’s $460 million of 6.25 percent convertible notes due
October 2014 fell 1 percent to 95.125 cents on the dollar at
5:24 p.m. in New York, compared with the closing price on the
previous day of trading on Jan. 11, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  