-- Andrew Littell, Trader Behind MarketWatch Site, Dies at 44
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-01-15T13:59:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/andrew-littell-bond-trader-behind-marketwatch-site-dies-at-44.html
Andrew Littell, the head of European
loan and bond trading at London-based CVC Credit Partners, who
in 2000 helped the Financial Times and MarketWatch.com start a
business-news website, has died. He was 44.  He died in  London  on Dec. 17 of sudden and as-yet-
unexplained heart failure, following a stomach virus that may
have played a role, his wife, Brooke Russell, said yesterday in
an interview. His death notice was  published  Jan. 13 in the New
York Times.  Littell was a U.S. citizen who lived in the U.K. for the
past 14 years. He joined CVC as a director last April after
working as head of trading and chief operating officer at
Resource Europe Management Ltd., which he co-founded. The firm,
a unit of Resource America Inc., was acquired by CVC’s parent,
London-based  CVC Capital Partners Ltd.  Resource America is an
asset-management company based in Philadelphia.  Littell was promoted to a managing director just days
before he became ill, according to his wife.  “This is a tragic loss to his family and to CVC,” Marc
Boughton, managing partner and chief executive officer at CVC
Partners, said in a statement after Littell’s death. “In the
seven months since joining us, he added a tremendous amount
representing CVC partners at the highest levels. He truly
embraced ex-pat and London life.”  ‘Rising Star’  In 2000, as head of corporate finance for the Financial
Times Group Ltd., Littell helped create Financial Times
MarketWatch.com Ltd., a  joint venture  with MarketWatch.com that
established a real-time news and commentary website for European
investors, FTMarketWatch.com.  “Andrew was a rising star with a bright future,” Larry
Kramer, publisher of USA Today in McLean,  Virginia , said
yesterday in an e-mail. Kramer founded U.S.-based MarketWatch in
1997 and was chairman of the joint venture with the Financial
Times. “Andrew was instrumental in building new and creative
advertising models, and we were very impressed with him.”  Though it succeeded in building readership,
FTMarketWatch.com couldn’t survive the drop in advertising when
Internet stocks crashed in 2001 and 2002, Kramer said. The
website was out of business by the time he sold MarketWatch to
Dow Jones & Co. in 2005 for about $530 million.  Littell traveled extensively and spoke Italian, German and
French, his father, Walter D. Littell, said yesterday in an
interview.  Father’s Recollection  “He loved living in London and loved traveling around
 Europe  on those cheap flights with his family,” said his
father, a former director of public information at Yale
University. “And he understood how European business worked.”  “He had this ability to be very, very good at finance but
also was a lot of fun to work with,” Walter Littell said. “He
was a very pleasant guy, a lot of wit and humor, always very
full of sunshine. He left a trail of people who loved him.”  Andrew Littell was born on Nov. 29, 1968, in New York City,
one of three children of Walter Littell and the former Penelope
Platt, who died in 1984. He attended the private  Middlesex
School  in Concord,  Massachusetts , and was elected president of
his senior class.  He earned his bachelor’s degree in English literature in
1992 from Columbia University in New York and studied at Ecole
Polytechnique in Paris in 1992-1993, according to his LinkedIn
profile. He was an associate at C.W. Downer & Co., a Boston-
based investment-banking firm, from 1993 to 1997.  Chicago MBA  On his way to a master’s degree in business administration
from the University of Chicago’s  Booth School of Business  in
1999, he spent the summer of 1998 at Citibank’s Global Asset
Finance Group in London, according to his profile.  He joined the Financial Times Group, a unit of London-based
 Pearson Plc (PSON) , in 1999.  Littell’s wife works on the communications team of the  C40
Cities Climate Leadership Group , a network of cities seeking to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions. New York Mayor Michael
Bloomberg, the owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg
News, is chairman of the group.  Littell  and Russell had two daughters, Grace, 14, and
Catherine, 11, who also survive him.  “He was just an incredible father, patient and kind,” his
wife said. “Yes, he had a job that required a lot of his time,
but when he wasn’t doing that, his focus was on us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  