-- Manufacturing in New York Region Contracts for Sixth Month
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-01-15T14:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/manufacturing-in-new-york-region-contracts-for-sixth-month.html
Manufacturing in the  New York  region
 contracted  in January for the sixth straight month as the
industry continued to face the effects of fiscal uncertainty in
the U.S. and lackluster demand overseas.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
 index  fell to minus 7.8 from a revised minus 7.3 in December.
The median forecast of 54 economists in a Bloomberg survey
called for a reading of zero, which signals no change in
conditions. Readings of less than zero signal contraction in New
York, northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  Weakness in manufacturing is holding back the economic
expansion, damping the effects of advances in housing and
household spending that are contributing to growth. On Jan. 1,
Congress and President  Barack Obama  reached an agreement on
taxes and spending after a protracted standoff that had caused
some companies to hold back on investment. The pact calmed some
so-called fiscal cliff worries even as it triggered a higher tax
bill for American workers and left policy makers with more
budget cutting to do.  “The manufacturing sector in general has been stuck in
neutral for several months now,” said Thomas Simons, an
economist with Jefferies Group Inc. in New York, who had
forecast an improvement in the Empire index to minus 2.
“It still hasn’t shown any progress. We’re still stuck in the
mud here.”  Stock Futures  Stock-index futures trimmed earlier losses after the
report. The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing
in March fell 0.3 percent to 1,459.5 at 8:36 a.m. in New York as
concern about talks to raise the government’s debt ceiling
outweighed investor optimism over corporate earnings.  Bloomberg  survey  estimates for the January data ranged from
minus 8 to 9.5.  The Empire State gauge of new orders decreased to minus
7.2 from minus 3.4 in December. A measure of shipments fell to
minus 3.1 from 11.9 in December.  The index of prices paid rose to 22.6 from 16.1, while
prices received jumped to 10.8 from 1.1  The measure of factory employment rose to minus 4.3 from
minus 9.7.  Factory executives in the New York Fed region were more
optimistic about the future. The gauge measuring the outlook six
months from now climbed to 22.4 from 18.  U.S. Economy  Manufacturing makes up about 12 percent of the  U.S. economy 
and about 6 percent of New York’s.  Economists monitor the New York report and Philadelphia Fed
factory readings, due Jan. 17, for clues about the Institute for
Supply Management figures on U.S. manufacturing, set for release
Feb. 1.  With U.S. policymakers at loggerheads at the end of last
year over tax and spending policy, manufacturers were pursuing
cost-cutting and remaining cautious about investment. Some of
that uncertainty has been resolved, and overseas markets are
showing signs of improvement, giving hope to companies such as
 Steinway (LVB)  Musical Instruments Inc., based in Waltham,
 Massachusetts .  The musical instrument manufacturer closed out 2012 with
piano business results that failed to meet expectations. Now
it’s ramping up piano production to meet demand in  Europe ,  China 
and elsewhere, Chief Executive Officer Michael Sweeney said.  “Our more established markets of Europe and  North America 
also provide significant growth prospects,” Sweeney said on a
Jan. 2 call with analysts. “Some of this will come as the
natural result of improved economic conditions, particularly an
improved housing market.”  Labor Market  An improved labor market and rising wages had Americans
buying clothes and electronics last month, while vehicle sales
jumped as some Northeast residents sought replacements for autos
damaged by superstorm Sandy. Cars and light trucks sold at a
15.3 million annual  pace  in December after a 15.5 million rate
in November, the best two months since early 2008, according to
Ward’s Automotive Group.  Still, “the overhang of uncertainty continues,” said
S.D. Shibulal, chief executive officer of  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , a global
information technology company in Bangalore,  India . While the
U.S. works through its spending issues, Europe continues to
battle sovereign debt and  emerging markets  are slowing, he said
on a Jan. 11 earnings call. Some Infosys clients are wary.  “It is clear that they believe that while the worst is
over, some of these events can impact their business prospects
in a manner difficult to predict,” Shibulal said. “Their
ability in gauging the full impact of these events on their
business is affecting their confidence in making spending
decisions even though they have huge amounts of cash reserves.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  