-- Appraisal Standards for Higher-Risk Mortgages Passed by FDIC
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-01-15T17:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/appraisal-standards-for-higher-risk-mortgages-approved-by-fdic.html
U.S. mortgage lenders will get an
additional year to implement new appraisal standards for higher-
risk loans after regulators revised the Dodd-Frank Act  measure 
to address concerns raised by financial firms.  Creditors issuing loans at above-average  interest rates 
that don’t meet the “qualified mortgage” standard will need to
get written reports by certified appraisers who physically
inspect homes under rules approved today by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., one of six agencies that must sign off. The
chiefs of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency -- as FDIC board members -- also
approved the rule.  “This rule, along with the CFPB’s recently issued
qualified mortgage rule, are key components in addressing the
practices that contributed to the worst economic crisis since
the Great Depression,” Comptroller  Thomas Curry  said before the
vote. “It will bring transparency and clarity to the appraisal
process for higher-risk residential mortgages.”  In addition to the initial physical inspection, the rule
requires a second appraisal when a home is being turned around
for a quick, higher resale. The final rule doesn’t require the
second appraisal if the new sale price is only marginally higher
-- a point requested in an Oct. 15 letter from  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S. home lender, which had also asked for the
12-month implementation.  The rule, which goes into effect Jan. 14 next year, uses
the Truth in Lending Act definition of a “higher-priced
mortgage loan” to maintain consistency.  The six U.S. regulators involved in the joint rule include
the FDIC, OCC, CFPB, the  Federal Reserve ,  Federal Housing
Finance Agency  and the  National Credit Union Administration .
Other regulators will follow the FDIC, with the NCUA voting
“early next week,” said John Fairbanks, an NCUA spokesman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  