-- Arctic Blast Set to Freeze New York and Chicago Next Week
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-01-15T18:36:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/arctic-blast-set-to-freeze-new-york-and-chicago-this-weekend.html
A week-long blast of Arctic air
promises to grip the U.S. Midwest and Northeast next week,
sending temperatures below freezing from  Chicago  to  New York
City  and boosting energy demand.  The cold that will arrive in the upper Midwest this weekend
is expected to start pushing temperatures down in Chicago
starting on Jan. 21, according to MDA Weather Services in
Gaithersburg,  Maryland . Lows are expected to reach 3 degrees
Fahrenheit (minus 16 Celsius) in Chicago on Jan. 22, and the
next day New York may fall to 16, while Boston reaches 12,
Philadelphia 15 and Washington 18, according to MDA.  “All signs are pointing toward a strong blast of cold air
surging southward through the eastern half of  North America  next
week,” said  Bob Haas , a meteorologist at MDA. “Sharp increases
in heating demand to levels we haven’t seen so far this winter,
or last winter, should come along with it.”  Temperatures are forecast to be 8 to 15 degrees Fahrenheit
(4.4 to 8.3 Celsius) below normal across the Midwest, Northeast,
Ontario and Quebec from Jan. 20 to 24, said  Matt Rogers ,
president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.
The temperature may reach below zero across a large part of the
Midwest, including Chicago, during the same time frame, Rogers
said.  Intensive Cold  “Next week’s impressive cold is intensified in our
forecasts today for the Midwest and South,” Rogers said in a
note to clients. “The models are in excellent agreement on the
event and suggest even colder readings than we currently show at
the peak.”  Oil rose to the highest level in almost four months in New
York yesterday partly because of the anticipated increase in
demand for heating fuels as temperatures plummet. Natural gas,
used to heat about 50 percent of the nation’s households,
climbed to a two-week high on forecasts for cold.  Both MDA and Rogers expect the cold to start loosening its
grip by the end of January. However in yesterday’s eight- to 14-
day forecast, the U.S. Climate Prediction Center said there is a
60 percent chance temperatures will remain below normal from the
 Great Lakes  into New York and New England.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Austin at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  