-- Stocks Rise, Led by Retailers, Banks; Treasuries Advance
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2013-01-15T21:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/asian-stocks-rise-to-17-month-high-on-yen-apple-suppliers-drop.html
U.S. stocks rose, erasing early
losses, as chain stores gained after retail sales grew more than
forecast and JPMorgan Chase & Co. paced a rally in banks before
reporting earnings. Treasuries climbed for a third straight day,
pushing yields to near their lowest of the year.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.1 percent to
1,472.34 at 4 p.m. in  New York , returning to a five-year high
after slipping as much as 0.5 percent earlier. The Dow Jones
Transportation Average surged to a record. Ten-year Treasury
note yields declined one basis point to 1.83 percent. Platinum
jumped 1.6 percent as Anglo American Platinum Ltd. planned to
reduce output, while oil fell from a four-month high. The yen
rebounded versus the dollar and euro.  Retailers in the  S&P 500  climbed 1 percent as a group for
the second-biggest gain among 24 industries after Commerce
Department data showed sales increased 0.5 percent in December,
more than twice the median forecast of economists in a survey.
JPMorgan rallied 1 percent as the KBW Bank Index climbed 0.7
percent. Earlier losses in stocks came amid concern U.S.
lawmakers will fail to agree on a plan to raise the debt
ceiling.  “The retail data is good news for economic expansion,”
said  Peter Jankovskis , who helps oversee $3 billion of assets as
co-chief investment officer at Lisle, Illinois-based Oakbrook
Investments LLC. He spoke in a telephone interview. “It’s
encouraging. We have the earnings season going on, people are on
wait-and-see mode,” he said. “There’s a lot of rhetoric on the
debt-ceiling front. Though it’s probably a bit early to start
getting concerned about that.”  Market Movers  Limited Brands Inc., Abercrombie & Fitch Co. and J.C.
Penney Co. rose at least 2 percent to pace gains in  retailers .
Express Inc. rallied 24 percent, the most since its initial
public offering in May 2010, after the clothing chain raised its
outlook for the fourth quarter and full year 2012.  Microsoft Corp., Caterpillar Inc. and JPMorgan climbed more
than 1 percent to lead the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  up 27.57
points to 13,534.89. Nineteen of the 24 banks in the KBW index
climbed, with SunTrust Banks Inc. surging 2.9 percent to lead
gains.  Wall Street investment banks, loathed by investors in 2011
and hobbled by weak trading last year, are poised for a return
to the spotlight. JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan
Stanley are among U.S. banks reporting fourth-quarter results
this week amid a rise in fixed-income and equity trading and the
most mergers and acquisitions since 2008. Investment-banking and
trading revenue probably jumped 44 percent in the period from a
year earlier, according to estimates by  Betsy Graseck , a Morgan
Stanley analyst in New York.  Apple Slips  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  lost 3.2 percent to $485.92, sliding  below $500 
for the first time in 11 months. The stock slumped for a second
day following a Nikkei report that said orders for iPhone 5
parts had been cut about 50 percent following lower-than-
expected sales.  Facebook Inc. (FB)  slipped 2.7 percent after it introduced a
tool for searching information posted to its social network of
more than 1 billion users. While Chief Executive Officer  Mark
Zuckerberg  said the new feature could be a “business” in the
future, he didn’t outline how it will make money soon, weighing
on Facebook shares.  Dell Inc. climbed rose 7.2 percent following a 13 percent
jump yesterday after two people with knowledge of the matter
said the personal-computer maker is in buyout talks with
private-equity firms TPG Capital and Silver Lake. The cost of
insuring against default on Dell debt surged.  Transportation Stocks  The Dow Jones Transportation Average, a gauge of 20
railroads, airlines and shipping companies, climbed to the
highest level in Bloomberg data going back to 1896. Dow Theory,
which stems from observations made by Wall Street Journal
founder Charles Dow during the late 1800s, holds that moves by
the average must be “confirmed” by the industrial measure, and
vice versa, to be sustained. The Dow industrial average closed
at its highest level since October and is still more than 4
percent below its 2007 closing record of 14,164.53.  Thirty-year  U.S. debt  also increased, sending yields down
one basis point to 3.02 percent.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  warned yesterday of
severe economic hardship should Congress fail to raise the  debt
ceiling  that lawmakers have increased or revised 79 times since
1960, including 49 times under Republican presidents. So-called
extraordinary measures the Obama administration is taking to
avoid breaching the federal debt ceiling will work only until
mid-February to early March, Geithner said.  ‘More Uncertainty’  President  Barack Obama  vowed he won’t negotiate over
raising the ceiling even as he offered to deal on a separate
track with the  deficit reduction  demanded by Republicans.  “The debt-ceiling concern means more uncertainty in
play,” Tom Wirth, who helps manage $1.6 billion as senior
investment officer for Chemung Canal Trust Co., in Elmira, New
York, said in a phone interview. “It’s not good for the economy
to have a government shutdown,” he said. “The Congress is
going to take us to the brink once again.”  Fitch Ratings  said its AAA credit rankings on  France , the
U.S. and the U.K. are likely to come under pressure this year
due to slow economic growth and high debt levels.  ‘Formal Review’  The three nations, which all have a negative outlook from
the company, have seen gross domestic product struggle to
recover from the global financial crisis while debt levels have
increased amid efforts to spur growth. A failure of U.S.
lawmakers to raise the nation’s debt ceiling would prompt a
“formal review” of its  credit rating , Fitch said in a press
release today.  The yen rallied 0.8 percent after reaching 89.67 per dollar
yesterday, the weakest level since June 2010. It strengthened
1.4 percent per euro as it rose against all 16 major peers.
Japan Economy Minister Akira Amari warned of harmful effects
“if the yen excessively weakens” in Tokyo today.  “The world has gone massively short yen on the idea that
Japan is going to be more aggressive with its stimulus under the
new prime minister,” saidImre Speizer, an Auckland-based
strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. “Comments like Amari’s are
likely to spook those holding yen shorts.” A short position is
a bet a security will decline in value.  European Yields  Spain’s two-year note yield dropped four basis points to
2.49 percent after the government sold 5.75 billion euros ($7.7
billion) of bills, more than the maximum target of 5.5 billion
euros. The 10-yield declined one basis point to 5.02 percent and
the rate on similar-maturity Italian bonds rose two basis points
to 4.22 percent.  Among  European stocks , SAP, the biggest maker of business-
management software, sank 3.9 percent after earnings trailed
analyst estimates because of rising spending and slowing growth
in the Americas.  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  retreated 3.7 percent from a
12-year high as Morgan Stanley cut its recommendation on the
designer of smartphone chips.  Lonmin Plc, the world’s third-largest platinum producer,
advanced 4 percent in London trading and Impala Platinum
Holdings Ltd., the second-largest producer of the metal, climbed
1.7 percent in Johannesburg.  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  rallied 4.6
percent to a four-month high as the U.K.’s biggest luxury-goods
company reported revenue that beat estimates.  Gasoline, oil and sugar led the S&P GSCI Index of 24
commodities down 0.5 percent after the gauge yesterday reached
the highest level since October. Oil in New York decreased 0.9
percent to $93.28 a barrel after settling yesterday at the
highest price since September.  Platinum Gains  Platinum for immediate delivery rose as much as 2.7 percent
to $1,701 an ounce in London, the highest price since Oct. 9.
Anglo American Platinum said it will idle four shafts in  South
Africa , cutting output by 400,000 ounces a year after a review
of its operations. Auto catalysts used to reduce harmful
exhausts are the biggest use for platinum.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index lost 0.7 percent as
stronger currencies in  Asia  weighed on exporters and Apple
suppliers slid for a second day on concern demand for iPhones is
waning. Brazil’s Bovespa retreated 0.6 percent and Russia’s
Micex Index rose 0.1 percent  South Korea’s Kospi index slid 1.2 percent as Samsung
Electronics Co. declined 2.6 percent. Hon Hai Precision Industry
Co. and Catcher Technology Co. dragged Taiwan’s Taiex down 0.8
percent. The Shanghai Composite Index advanced 0.6 percent after
Citigroup Inc. said earnings have bottomed out.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  