-- Most Asian Stocks Climb as Japanese Shares Advance
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-01-15T10:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/asian-stocks-rise-as-japan-exporters-gain-on-weaker-yen.html
Most Asian  stocks  rose, with the
regional benchmark index heading for the highest close since
August 2011. Japanese shares gained after Bank of Japan Governor
Masaaki Shirakawa said the central bank will pursue powerful
monetary easing.  Olympus Corp. (7733) , a maker of cameras and endoscopes, jumped
7.7 percent in  Tokyo  after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised the
stock’s rating to buy. Billabong International Ltd. surged 16
percent as  Australia ’s largest surfwear maker received a
takeover offer from VF Corp. and Altamont Capital Partners. LG
Display Co. slid 3.5 percent in Seoul, pacing declines among
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  suppliers, after the Nikkei newswire reported Apple
scaled back production plans for the iPhone 5.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.3 percent to 132.59 as
of 7:30 p.m. in Tokyo, with seven shares rising for every six
that fell. The gauge is extending a rally for a third
consecutive month after reports showed  China ’s economy is
recovering and Japanese shares gained on speculation new Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe will pursue more aggressive policies to
stimulate the world’s third-largest economy.  “Broadly speaking, share prices in Asia will be higher in
the next 12 months,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1
billion at Pengana Capital Ltd. in  Melbourne . “We’ve seen too
much enthusiasm over the past two months or so in light of a
fairly muted recovery. The debt-ceiling negotiations in the U.S.
is a substantial issue in the near term that the market has got
to confront and that’s going to hold things back.”  Failure by U.S. Congress to raise the nation’s debt ceiling
could “impose severe economic hardship” on the country,
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said. Extraordinary
measures being taken to avoid breaching the limit would work
only until mid-February to early March, he said.  Election Boost  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  gained 0.7 percent to its
highest close since April 2010. The broader Topix Index rose 0.8
percent, extending a nine-week advance, the longest winning
stretch since December 1989, after the yen fell to its weakest
in more than two years yesterday.  “We believe Japanese equities still enjoy further upside
given low valuations and prevalent underweight positions among
global funds,” said Michael Kurtz, Hong-Kong based head of
global equity strategy at Nomura Holdings Inc.,  Japan ’s largest
brokerage. Decisions on a new Bank of Japan governor and a
proposed consumption tax increase “are likely to sustain
further easing expectations, yen weakening, and other stimulus
measures, to the support of Japanese equity prices.”  Nomura, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Bank of America Corp.
are predicting Japanese stocks will extend their longest streak
of gains in 23 years as extra economic stimulus boosts earnings.  Japanese Exporters  The yen rebounded to 88.87 per dollar today after yesterday
touching 89.67 yesterday, the weakest level since June 23, 2010.  Japanese Economy Minister Akira Amari said the nation faces
risks from any excessive decline in the yen, highlighting limits
on Prime Minister Abe’s campaign to drive down the currency. A
weaker yen boosts overseas income for exporters when
repatriated.  BOJ Governor Shirakawa, whose term ends in April, said the
central bank will provide powerful monetary easing and monitor
the impact of currencies on prices and the Japanese economy. He
spoke at a BOJ branch managers meeting in Tokyo today.  Japanese exporters advanced. Nissan Motor Co., which gets
about 79 percent of sales from overseas, climbed 1.2 percent to
883 yen. Sony Corp., the maker of Bravia televisions and
PlayStation game consoles, added 1.2 percent to 995 yen.
Panasonic Corp., Japan’s largest consumer-electronics maker,
rose 2.7 percent to 566 yen.  Rating Raised  Olympus jumped 7.7 percent to 1,937 yen. Goldman Sachs
raised its rating to buy from neutral, saying demand for cameras
with interchangeable lens is growing.  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  advanced 0.6 percent. Hong
Kong’s Hang Seng Index and Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index both
lost 0.1 percent. South Korea’s Kospi Index declined 1.2
percent.  China Taiping Insurance Holdings Co. gained 6.2 percent to
HK$16.54 in Hong Kong after saying it may buy a 25 percent stake
in Taiping Life Insurance Co. from parent China Taiping
Insurance Group Co.  Billabong surged 16 percent to 98 Australian cents in
Sydney. VF Corp. and Altamont Capital made a takeover offer for
the surfwear maker that matches a A$527 million ($556 million)
bid from Paul Naude, director of the company’s Americas
division.  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.,  India ’s largest software
exporter, advanced 1.5 percent to 1,354.8 rupees in Mumbai after
posting profit that beat analyst estimates.  U.S. Futures  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  fell for the first time in
eight weeks last week as a report showed China’s inflation
accelerated. The gauge traded at 14.2 times estimated earnings,
compared with 13.3 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and
a multiple of 12 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg News.  Futures on the S&P 500 Index lost 0.1 percent today. The
gauge yesterday declined 0.1 percent from near a five-year high
as Apple’s slump amid concern about iPhone sales offset a rally
in Dell Inc.  Apple  suppliers  declined after the Nikkei newswire reported
that it scaled back orders for iPhone parts by about half this
quarter after sales missed targets.  LG Display slid 3.5 percent to 27,900 won in  Seoul . Sharp
Corp., Japan’s biggest maker of liquid crystal displays, dropped
2.7 percent to 321 yen in Tokyo. Hon Hai Precision Industry Co.,
which assembles Apple’s iPads and iPhones, sank 3.4 percent to
NT$84.20 in Taipei.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  