-- Tata Consultancy Surges as Profit Beats Estimates: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2013-01-15T05:25:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/tata-consultancy-surges-as-profit-beats-estimates-mumbai-mover.html
Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) ,
 India ’s largest software exporter, rose the most in about nine
months in Mumbai trading after reporting profit that exceeded
analyst estimates.  Tata Consultancy jumped as much as 4.9 percent and was
headed for the largest increase since April 24. It was the
biggest gainer on the BSE India Sensitive Index, which surpassed
20,000 for the first time in more than two years.  Net income  surged 23 percent to 35.5 billion rupees ($652
million) in the three months ended December, beating the 34
billion-rupee median of 38  analyst estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Tata Consultancy, which won orders from clients
including an Asian bank and  Mexico ’s government, is “very
confident” about the outlook for the year starting April 1
because of a strong deal pipeline and signs of demand recovery
in  Europe , Chief Executive Officer N. Chandrasekaran said.  “TCS is clearly doing better than its competitors, largely
because they’ve gone aggressively into developing markets,”
said Atul Thakkar, an analyst with Mumbai-based Anand Rathi
Financial Services. Shares in the Indian information-technology
industry could trade at “historic highs” over the next two
quarters, he said.  Tata Consultancy, whose  customers  include Citigroup Inc.
and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , gained 2.1 percent to 1,362 rupees as of
10:22 a.m. in Mumbai trading.  Smaller rival  Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  declined 0.6 percent to 2,790.15
rupees. The stock has jumped 20 percent since the company raised
its full-year sales forecast on Jan. 11.  Interim Payout  Tata Consultancy yesterday proposed an interim dividend of
3 rupees, the same as a year earlier. Third-quarter sales rose
22 percent to 160.7 billion rupees.  “We expect the good momentum to continue,” Chandrasekaran
said. “The environment is good.”  The company added two clients with contracts valued at more
than $100 million each in the quarter, boosting the tally of
such customers to 16, it said in a statement yesterday. Total
active customers reached 1,051 at the end of December.  Major order wins in the last quarter included a large
service-management deal with a global financial services company
in the U.S. and a multimillion-dollar contract from a North
American health-care provider, the company said.  Tata Consultancy added a net 9,561 employees in the
quarter, lifting the tally since April 1 to almost 50,000,
according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net ;
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net  