-- ATP Chief Drewett to Step Down Because of Lou Gehrig’s Disease
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-01-15T01:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/atp-chief-drewett-to-step-down-because-of-lou-gehrig-s-disease.html
ATP World Tour Executive Chairman
and President Brad Drewett will step down following a transition
period after being diagnosed with motor neurone disease, the
men’s tennis body said.  Drewett, a 54-year-old Australian who took over the job on
Jan. 1, 2012, will continue on an interim basis while the ATP’s
board of directors searches for his successor, the ATP said
today in a statement.  “I hold the ATP very close to my heart, and it’s with
sadness that I make the decision to enter this transition period
due to my ill health,” said Drewett, who was ranked as high as
34th in the world during a 12-year professional playing career.  Motor neurone disease, also known as  Lou Gehrig ’s Disease,
causes the degeneration of neuron connections, impeding
movement, and most people diagnosed with the illness die within
five to 10 years of diagnosis, according to
 www.motorneuronedisease.org .  Drewett has been part of the ATP for more than 35 years,
serving as a player council member, player board member,
regional chief executive officer and tournament director before
succeeding  Adam Helfant  as the organization’s top executive.  During his 12 months in the job, the ATP negotiated with
the four Grand Slams regarding a more even distribution of prize
money that it says will benefit players across all levels of the
tour. The ATP also has been fighting for a greater share of
revenue generated at the majors.  Prize Money  The Australian Open currently under way in  Melbourne  will
pay its men’s and women’s singles champions a record A$2.43
million ($2.5 million) each this year, with early losers getting
the biggest raise.  The largest increases are in the first three rounds, which
all had at least a 30 percent rise from 2012,  Tennis Australia 
said last month. First-round losers will receive A$27,600, up
from A$20,800 in 2012, while prize money for reaching the round
of 16, quarterfinals and semifinals went up almost 15 percent.  Record 17-time Grand Slam singles champion  Roger Federer ,
the president of the ATP Player Council, said Drewett’s illness
was “very sad news for all of us at the ATP and the entire
tennis community.”  “He is well liked and respected by everyone and has done a
tremendous job in leading the ATP over the past 12 months,”
Federer said in the statement. “Our thoughts are with him and
his family during this difficult time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  