-- Aura Migraines Linked to Heart Attack Risk for Women
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-01-15T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/aura-migraines-linked-to-heart-attack-risk-for-women.html
Women who suffer from migraines with
visual disturbances like flashing lights, called aura, may be at
a higher risk for heart attack and stroke, research found.  A study of almost 28,000 women showed that migraine with
aura was the second-strongest individual contributor to danger
of heart attack and stroke after high  blood pressure , said
Tobias Kurth, lead author of the research released today by the
 American Academy of Neurology . A second study found that women
who suffer from migraines with aura and who use newer forms of
 birth control  may have a greater risk of blood clots.  About 30 million Americans suffer from migraine headaches
and about 1 in 5 will experience an aura where they see flashing
lights or blind spots 10 minutes to 30 minutes before an attack,
according to the  U.S. Department of Health and Human Services .  “Migraine with aura is a strong relative contributor to
increased risk of cardiovascular disease events,”  Kurth ,
director of research at INSERM, the French National Institute of
Health and Medical Research in Bordeaux, and adjunct associate
professor of epidemiology at Harvard School of  Public Health  in
Boston, said in a Jan. 14 e-mail.  Of the 27,860 women from the  Women’s Health Study  who were
included in the 15-year research, 1,435 had migraine with aura.  Scientists don’t understand how migraines with aura may
contribute to heart attacks and stroke, Kurth said.  Previous Research  A 2010 study in the British Medical Journal found that men
and women who suffer from migraine with aura had a greater risk
of dying from stroke or heart disease, as well as from all
causes. Those who didn’t have aura with their migraine headaches
had no increased danger.  The findings show that those with aura migraines should try
to make changes in their lives associated with a lower risk of
heart attack or stroke -- not smoking, keeping their weight
down, reducing their blood pressure and exercising, Kurth said.  In the second study released today, researchers identified
145,304 women who used older birth control like Ortho Novum,
Ortho Tri Cyclen and  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries (TEVA) ’ Seasonique,
and newer contraceptives like  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s Yasmin,  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) ’s Ortho Evra patch and  Merck & Co. Inc. (MRK) ’s NuvaRing. The
contraceptives are called combined hormonal birth control
because they include estrogen and progestin. Of those, 2,691 had
migraine with aura and 3,437 had migraine without aura.  The preliminary findings suggest that a large proportion of
women who suffer from migraine with aura and used combined
hormonal birth control at some point had an elevated risk for
blood clot complications like deep vein thrombosis compared to
those who didn’t use the contraceptives, said  Shivang Joshi , the
lead study author.  More studies are needed to better understand the link
between the contraceptives and migraine with aura, Joshi, a
clinical neurologist and headache fellow at Brigham and Women’s
Falkner Hospital and a clinical instructor at  Harvard Medical
School  in Boston, said in a Jan. 14 telephone interview.  The studies will be presented at the  American Academy  of
Neurology’s annual meeting in San Diego in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  