-- Australian Consumer Confidence Little Changed After Rate Cuts
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-01-15T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/australian-consumer-confidence-little-changed-after-rate-cuts.html
Australian  consumer confidence  was
little changed as households worried about their finances
shrugged off central bank interest rate reductions and a lower
unemployment rate, a private survey showed.  The sentiment index for January rose 0.6 percent to 100.6,
a  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and Melbourne Institute survey taken
Jan. 7-13 of 1,200 adults showed today in Sydney. Readings above
100 indicate optimists outnumbered pessimists.  Reserve Bank Governor Glenn Stevens and his board lowered
the benchmark rate to 3 percent on Dec. 4, matching the level
reached from April-October 2009 that was the lowest since 1960.
Bill Evans, Westpac’s chief economist, said today’s report
showed little improvement in sentiment from a stronger local
stock market and a better outlook for  China , Australia’s largest
trading partner.  “Clearly these positive news events have failed to move
respondents,” Evans said. “Respondents have become more
guarded around their own finances.”  The local dollar is up 1.6 percent this year, the best
performer among the Group of 10 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Traders are pricing in a 36 percent chance policy makers
will lower the overnight cash rate target by a quarter-
percentage point to a record-low 2.75 percent at their Feb. 5
meeting, swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The case for a further rate cut as early as the February
meeting is still reasonable,” Evans said. “However, a prudent
Reserve Bank which has seen a resurgence in the terms of trade,
is likely to defer in February to await further evidence around
the impact of the rate cuts. Accordingly we have opted for the
next cut in the March end of our forecast.”  Australia ’s jobless rate fell in November to 5.2 percent
from 5.4 percent a month earlier. The Bureau of Statistics is
scheduled to release a report tomorrow on employment in
December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  