-- Lavendon Rises as Middle East Rental Revenue Grows: London Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   R i s s e r
-- 2013-01-15T12:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/lavendon-rises-as-middle-east-rental-revenue-grows-london-mover.html
Lavendon Group Plc (LVD)  rose to the
highest price in more than four years after the U.K. supplier of
lifts and platforms for construction said its success in
building business in the  Middle East  will continue this year.  Lavendon’s growth in the region, led by  Saudi Arabia ,
accelerated throughout 2012 as it shifted resources from
Germany. Rental revenue surged 35 percent in the Middle East
last year and full-year earnings will be at the “upper end of
the board’s expectations,” Lutterworth, England-based Lavendon
said today in a statement.  The  stock rose  as much as 10 percent to 159 pence, the
highest since October 2008, and was up 7.1 percent at 12:01 p.m.
Lavendon was the second-biggest advancer on the  FTSE All-Share
Index (ASX)  and has gained about 72 percent in 12 months.  Equipment rental companies have been among the biggest
gainers on the  FTSE All-Share Support Services Index (FASUPP)  of 51
companies in the past year, with Lavendon,  Ashtead Group Plc (AHT)  and
 Speedy Hire Plc (SDY)  among the top five advancing stocks. Ashtead
leads rental competitors, more than doubling in that period as
it gains business in the wake of superstorm Sandy in the U.S.  Lavendon said it’s betting on the Middle East, “given the
encouraging market outlook and our plans to direct further
investment into the region.” The company has disposed of
surplus fleet in Germany, where sales declined 6 percent last
year, and is shifting investment to the Persian Gulf region.  Scissor Lifts  The rental business, which includes scissor lifts for use
in warehouses and truck-mounted platforms for telecommunications
work, got 15 percent of sales in the Middle East last year.  Lavendon, led since October 2011 by Chief Executive Officer
Don Kenny, still gets the largest share of its business in the
U.K., with 48 percent of rental revenue in 2012. Sales in
Britain recovered in the fourth quarter, resulting in broadly
flat growth for the year as higher prices compensated for lower
volume.  The shift of investment to the Middle East will continue
this year, including by redeploying or disposing of excess fleet
capacity in  Belgium , Lavendon said. Its Gulf region operations
are in Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Oman and
Qatar.  More than 1.1 million Lavendon shares traded as of 12:01
p.m., triple the average daily volume in the last three months.
The company is scheduled to release full-year results in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Risser in London at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Harris at 
 hharris5@bloomberg.net  