-- BASF Raises Pronova Bid to $900 Million to Persuade Rebels
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-01-15T14:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/basf-raises-pronova-bid-to-900-million-to-persuade-rebels-1-.html
BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s biggest
chemical maker, boosted its offer for Norwegian drug-ingredient
maker  Pronova BioPharma ASA (PRON)  by 8 percent to win support from
investors holding out for more money.  BASF is now offering 13.50 kroner a share ahead of a Jan.
18 deadline, up from the 12.50 kroner it offered previously, the
Ludwigshafen, Germany-based company said today in a statement.
The new offer values Pronova at almost 5 billion kroner ($900
million), including debt. Pronova shares rose 6 percent to 13.35
kronor.  The move highlights the importance BASF is placing on
building its Omega 3 fatty acid unit, balancing its desire for
the asset with the risk of setting a precedent for future
takeovers. Pronova would give the company access to the market
for top-purity fatty acid used in blockbuster heart drugs such
as GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s Lovaza and Abbott Laboratories’ Omacor.  “The outcome is still uncertain” as the acceptance
requirement remains high at 90 percent, said Norbert Barth, an
analyst at Baader Bank.  BASF has done about $24 billion in mergers and acquisitions
in the past decade. Pronova’s board backed the previous offer.  Investors with as much as 20 percent of the Lysaker-based
company were disgruntled, according to Alexandra Morris, a  fund
manager  at Odin Forvaltning AS who said Jan. 7 that she had
discussed the deal terms with others. Odin has a 4.7 percent
stake and BASF is seeking 90 percent to gain full control.  Deeper Due Diligence  A fair price for Pronova would be closer to 20 kroner than
to 10 kroner, Rolf Solgard, chief portfolio manager at Nykredit
Asset Management, which has a 1 percent stake, said in an
interview last week.  “Following a comprehensive due diligence review and taking
into account the opportunities and foreseeable risks in
Pronova’s business, this increased offer is our last, best and
final offer,” Michael Heinz, a BASF board member, said in the
statement.  BASF, which said today 70 percent of the shares have been
tendered, won’t extend the offer period beyond this week’s
deadline. It reiterated that the offer depends on getting 90
percent of the stock.  All shareholders will be entitled to receive the increased
offer price for Pronova, except for Herkules Private Equity,
which held about 50 percent of Pronova, BASF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  