-- Berners-Lee Calls Prosecution of Aaron Swartz ‘Travesty’
-- B y   A n a s t a s i a   U s t i n o v a   a n d   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2013-01-15T21:53:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/berners-lee-calls-prosecution-of-aaron-swartz-travesty-.html
Tim Berners-Lee, inventor of the
World Wide Web, said today that the prosecution of Aaron Swartz,
an Internet activist who killed himself while facing computer-
fraud charges, was a “travesty of justice.”  Berners-Lee made the remarks in an interview after a
memorial service for Swartz at the Central Avenue Synagogue in
 Highland Park ,  Illinois , about 25 miles north of  Chicago . More
than 200 people attended, Bloomberg.com reported on its Tech
Blog.  Swartz’s father reiterated that he holds the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology  and U.S. prosecutors responsible for his
son’s death. The family  blames  authorities for engaging in a
campaign of “intimidation and prosecutorial overreach” in
charging Swartz with crimes that carried a potential sentence of
more than 30 years. The case has raised questions about whether
federal anti-hacking legislation is too broad.  “It was a senseless trial,” Robert Swartz said at the
service. “We tried to get MIT to show compassion and it was
inconceivable to me that they wouldn’t. They said they were
neutral, but they cooperated with the prosecutors. Aaron didn’t
commit suicide but was killed.”  As an outspoken advocate for unfettered access to
information online, Swartz was a symbol of the fight against
corporate control of data that could serve the public good.  Aaron, 26, was found dead in his  Brooklyn ,  New York 
apartment Jan. 11. In the wake of his death, ruled by the New
York Medical Examiner’s Office as a suicide by hanging, he
became a symbol in a debate about whether the Computer Fraud and
Abuse Act, the 1986 law under which he was charged, gives
prosecutors and hacking victims too much leeway in seeking harsh
punishments.  Law’s Overreach  Swartz was indicted in July 2011 for allegedly downloading
more than 4 million documents from JSTOR, a fee-based service
for scientific and literary journals, through an MIT connection.
Swartz was challenging the idea that access to academic
documents should be confined to the elite, and was scared of the
prospect of going to prison, according to his lawyer,  Elliot Peters , of San Francisco-based Keker & Van Nest LLP.  The Computer Fraud and Abuse Act fails to distinguish
between hacking for social causes and flagrant criminal
activity, wrote Jennifer Granick, director of civil liberties at
the Center for Internet and Society at  Stanford Law School  and
former defense lawyer for computer hackers, in a  widely shared
essay  about Swartz’s death.  Orin Kerr, a law professor at George Washington University,
 wrote  that the charges against Swartz were based on a fair
reading of the law, and that the “charges brought here were
pretty much what any good federal prosecutor would have
charged.”  Computer Prodigy  MIT declined to comment beyond a statement from President
Rafael Reif ordering an investigation of the institute’s role in
Swartz’s case. U.S. Attorney Carmen Ortiz dismissed the charges
against Swartz yesterday in a filing in federal court, citing
his death.  As a teenager, Swartz helped create a technology called
Really Simple Syndication, or RSS, which lets Web users subscribe
to updates. He also co-founded the news and information site 
Reddit as well as Demand Progress, a group that advocated against
Internet piracy legislation, according to his website. He had
written on his blog about  battling depression .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anastasia Ustinova in Chicago at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net ;
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  