-- Beware Rally in Europe’s Cheapest Stocks, Argonaut Says
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-01-15T10:43:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/beware-rally-in-europe-s-cheapest-stocks-argonaut-says.html
Investors should pick European
stocks with the highest potential for  earnings growth  over those
with the cheapest valuations even as central-bank support boosts
risk appetite, according to Argonaut Capital Partners.  “There is a big liquidity rush that has made everyone
enthusiastic, but it won’t go on for the rest of the year,”
Barry Norris, who helps manage $1.2 billion as a partner at
Argonaut in London, said in an interview. “Equities will rally
because they are the least-worst option among asset classes. But
investors have to be very selective and pick companies that can
grow profits even in a difficult economic environment.”  The cheapest stocks have led recent gains in equities after
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said in July he
would do whatever it takes to preserve the euro. The  MSCI Europe
Value Index (MXEU000V)  has surged more than twice as much as the MSCI
 Europe  Growth Index since the ECB announcement, pushing the
spread between the gauges to the highest level in 11 months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  surged 14 percent last
year, the biggest gain since 2009’s 28 percent jump. The measure
reached a 22-month high last week. While the ECB’s actions
diminished the chance the euro area will splinter, they have yet
to help the economy recover, Norris said.  “In 2009 too, we saw asset prices recover steeply but it
was backed by real economic growth and preceded by a sharp
decline,” said Norris, whose  Argonaut European Alpha Fund (IMAEAAG)  has
beaten 86 percent of peers over the past five years, according
to Bloomberg data. “That’s not the case this time.”  Economy Shrinks  The euro-area economy contracted 0.5 percent in 2012 and
will shrink 0.3 percent this year, according to ECB forecasts.
The region’s industrial production unexpectedly declined in
November and unemployment rose to a record 11.8 percent. In
Greece and Spain, recessions have driven jobless rates to more
than 25 percent.  Still, some fund managers including BNP Paribas Investment
Partners and Amundi predict that European equities will gain
about 10 percent this year.  “All companies in Italy and Spain, no matter what their
quality, were penalized by the cost of financing,” said
Christian Dargnat, chief investment officer at BNP Paribas
Investment Partners. “That has improved and will continue. That
favors a revaluation of their stocks.” Dargnat, who helps
manage the equivalent of $655 billion, began buying shares in
the two countries last month.  Biggest Gains  Stocks in peripheral Europe, which led losses in 2010 and
2011 as the euro area’s debt crisis escalated, have posted the
biggest gains among 24 developed markets tracked by Bloomberg
this year.  Portugal ’s benchmark PSI-20 Index has surged 8.5
percent and Spain’s IBEX 35 has advanced 5.3 percent.  Germany ’s
DAX Index has only climbed 1.4 percent.  “I struggle to understand why Spanish markets should be so
vibrant,” said Norris. “There are no signs of Spain coming out
of recession.”  Norris is bullish on consumer staples, insurance,
technology, property and  auto-industry stocks . Companies in
industrial, materials and utilities industries will underperform
the broader market, he said. His preferred stocks include
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s biggest carmaker, and  Marine Harvest
ASA (MHG) , the world’s largest salmon farmer.  “People who argue that there has been an improvement in
the peripheral countries in the last six months are deluded,”
said Norris. “Markets underestimate the time it will take for
growth to come back to those economies. We’re not at all
confident on peripheral outlook.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  