-- Bharti South Asia CEO Kapoor Quits, Vittal to Head India
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-01-15T11:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/bharti-south-asia-ceo-kapoor-quits-vittal-to-head-india.html
Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) ,  India ’s biggest
mobile phone operator, said Sanjay Kapoor will step down as
chief executive officer for  South Asia  and India at the end of
February.  Kapoor, who is departing to “pursue his future
aspirations” will be replaced at the Indian operations by Gopal Vittal, group director for special projects, New Delhi-based
Bharti said in a statement today. The  change  will become
effective March 1, the company said.  The transition at the top comes as billionaire chairman
Sunil Mittal grapples with  declining profit  at the wireless
provider amid increased competition that has slowed revenue
growth. Bharti’s profit will probably decline to 8.3 billion
rupees ($152 million) in the three months ended Dec. 31, from
10.1 billion rupees in the year-earlier period, according to the
median of 25  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “He was the face of the company, especially on mobile
business, so there may be some small hiccups in handling
immediate issues like the spectrum auction,” Harit Shah, a
Mumbai-based analyst with Nirmal Bang Institutional Equities,
said in reference to Kapoor. “The reality is this company is
too big for there to be any major impact on decisions because
one person is gone,” said Shah, who  rates  the stock sell.  Bharti climbed 5 percent to 345.20 rupees at the close in
Mumbai trading, the highest level since March 5. The company was
the best performer on the BSE India Sensitive Index today. The
stock fell 7.7 percent last year, making it the second-worst
performer on the benchmark.  Bharti’s South Asian operations in Bangladesh and  Sri Lanka 
will report to the company’s chief executive officer
International, Manoj Kohli, according to a stock exchange
filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  