-- Alibaba’s Jack Ma Steps Down as CEO Before Possible IPO
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-16T01:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/billionaire-alibaba-founder-ma-to-step-down-as-chief-executive.html
Alibaba Group Holdings Ltd.’s
billionaire founder Jack Ma will step down as chief executive
officer, stoking speculation that China’s largest e-commerce
company is preparing for an initial public offering.  Ma, 48, will remain chairman, he said in a letter to
employees yesterday. He will end his tenure as CEO on May 10,
when a replacement will probably be named. The former English
teacher, who has led  Alibaba  since its formation in 1999, has a
net worth of $3.4 billion, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index .  The move may signal that Alibaba is finalizing plans for a
share sale following a management restructuring announced
earlier this month and the June delisting of a Hong Kong unit.
Alibaba last year also bought back a stake from  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  in a
deal valuing the Hangzhou, China-based company at $35 billion.  “A series of changes at Alibaba Group may suggest that an
IPO is imminent,” said Wendy Huang, a CIMB Securities Ltd.
analyst in Hong Kong. Ma’s role “will not change too much”
because he already is focused on long-term strategy, she said.  Ma and 17 others founded Alibaba as an online marketplace
for Chinese companies. The business grew as economic
liberalization spurred a boom in manufacturing and  trade . It has
expanded its workforce to more than 24,000 and added services
including cloud computing, online payment and consumer auctions.  Alibaba’s  Taobao  consumer marketplace, a cross between
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , has more than 500 million
registered users and is one of the 20 most-visited websites in
the world, according to the company. Its Tmall business-to-
consumer website sold $3.1 billion of goods in one day during a
Nov. 11 promotion.  Profit Triples  The company’s profit more than tripled to $781.7 million in
the nine months ended June 30, according to Yahoo’s  financial
report  for the quarter ended Sept. 30. Sales jumped 74 percent
to $2.9 billion.  Ma will probably remain heavily involved at Alibaba “given
the new plan looming on the horizon, which is the mother of all
IPOs,” said Duncan Clark, the Beijing-based chairman of BDA
 China , which advises technology companies. “He will always have
a larger-than-life influence on the company no matter what title
he holds.”  Younger Leaders  Ma said his new role reflected a wider push to hand over
management to people born in the 1970s or 1980s as founders born
in the 1960s stepped down.  “I want to encourage our young leaders to step forward to
ensure a smooth transition,” he said. “The next generation of
Alibaba people are better equipped to manage an Internet
ecosystem like ours.”  Ma said in June the company could sell shares in an IPO
within five years. The out-going CEO may participate more in
venture-capital funds focusing on mainland China in future, said
Dundas Deng, the CEO of Midas Investments Ltd.  China had 564 million Internet users at the end of 2012, up
10 percent from the year before, according to the government-run
China Internet Network Information Center. China has more Web
users than the total population of any other country except
 India .  The country also has more online shoppers than the U.S.,
and the value of its online retail sales may triple to $360
billion by 2015, Boston Consulting Group  predicted  last year.  In December, Taobao was also removed from the U.S.
government’s “Notorious Markets”  piracy list  after
significantly decreasing the sale of infringing products, the
Office of the U.S. Trade Representative said.  Internal Successor  Alibaba will probably pick a current employee to replace Ma,
with possible candidates including Peng Lei, the head of Alipay,
and Chief Strategy Officer Zeng Ming, said Midas Investments’
Deng. Jonathan Lu, the head of Alibaba’s data business, could
also be in the running, said Eric Qiu, an analyst at Guosen
Securities Co. in Hong Kong. The company appointed nine senior
managers earlier this month as part of a restructuring that
divided the group into 25 units.  “Succeeding a founder CEO is a difficult job, especially
taking over from a CEO with such a distinct personality who is
very ‘ET’-like; this requires great courage and the willingness
to make sacrifices,” Ma said in his letter, referring to the
movie character. “This is something I’ve considered for more
than a year.”  “Jack Ma’s letter to employees speaks for itself,” said
John Spelich, a spokesman for Alibaba based in Hong Kong.  Yahoo Stake  Alibaba agreed in May to buy back about half of Yahoo’s 40
percent stake for about $7.1 billion. Yahoo acquired the shares
in 2005 in exchange for $1 billion and ownership of Yahoo’s
Chinese operations.  Alibaba also delisted its Hong Kong unit last year after
paying HK$18.3 billion ($2.4 billion) to buy back the 27 percent
stake held by minority investors.  Ma spends his free time dabbling in poker and traditional
medicine rather than surfing the Internet. He also travels with
a personal tai chi trainer and has teamed with movie star Jet Li
to spread awareness of the Chinese martial art. In 2010, he
joined the global board of the Nature Conservancy, an
environmental group.  “I believe that doing what makes oneself happy, staying
within one’s own limits and being a good partner to one’s more
capable colleagues, is the right thing for me to do,” Ma said
in his letter. “If not now, when? If not me, who?”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  