-- Black Carbon Twice as Dangerous as 2007 Estimate, Scientists Say
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2013-01-15T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/black-carbon-twice-as-dangerous-as-2007-estimate-scientists-say.html
The black carbon produced by  diesel
engines  is nearly twice as damaging to the planet as estimated
in 2007 and trails only carbon dioxide as the most dangerous
climate pollutant, according to an article published online
today in the  Journal of Geophysical Research: Atmospheres .  The four-year study by more than two dozen researchers also
showed that black carbon causes “significantly higher warming”
over the Arctic and can affect rainfall patterns in high-
emitting regions such as  Asia . The pollutant also has
contributed to rising temperatures in mid- to high-latitude
areas including the U.S. and  Canada .  “The potential to slow warming by cutting black carbon is
even more important than previously understood,”  Durwood
Zaelke , president of the Institute for Governance & Sustainable
Development, said today in a statement discussing the study.
“It also kills over a million people every year who contract
deadly respiratory diseases.”  The  Climate and Clean Air Coalition , a group of more than
two dozen nations that aims to reduce short-lived pollutants
including methane, is pursuing projects that reduce black-carbon
emissions from heavy-duty vehicle engines, brick production,
waste burning and inefficient cookstoves.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  announced last year that
the U.S. was joining the coalition, as “more than one-third of
current global warming is caused by short-lived pollutants.”
The U.S. contributed $12 million of the $15 million in startup
funding, and committed an additional $10 million in annual
support to existing efforts, Clinton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  