-- BM&FBovespa Tumbles as Direct Edge Seeks Brazil Equity Venue
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-01-15T21:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/bm-fbovespa-falls-on-report-direct-edge-seeks-brazil-trade-venue.html
BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3) , the operator of
Latin America’s biggest exchange, fell the most in two months
after industry publication The Trade reported that U.S.-based 
Direct Edge Holdings LLC is poised to apply to start a stock 
trading venue in Brazil.  BM&FBovespa’s shares declined 2.5 percent to 13.55 reais at
the close of trading in Sao Paulo, the steepest drop since Nov.
8. The benchmark Bovespa index slid 0.6 percent.  Direct Edge is “very close” to requesting authorization
from Brazil’s regulator to operate as an exchange in the South
American country, The Trade reported today. The financial news
website cited Chief Executive Officer  William O’Brien . Jim Gorman, a spokesman for the Jersey City, New Jersey-based
company, confirmed the report, saying by e-mail that it is
“looking to file the application in the next few weeks.”  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
Citadel LLC each hold about 20 percent of Direct Edge, the
fourth-largest owner of U.S. stock exchanges. A group of other
financial firms also owns a stake in the exchange operator.  BM&FBovespa is facing a loss in equities market share
estimated at as much as 30 percent by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Banco Itau BBA SA as the government considers boosting
competition for stock trading.  BM&FBovespa declined to comment in an e-mailed statement to
Bloomberg News. The Brazilian exchange operator’s shares climbed
43 percent in 2012 while the benchmark index rose 7.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Denyse Godoy in  Sao Paulo  at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  