-- BMW Taps Bond Market as Corporate Debt Risk Rises for Second Day
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2013-01-15T16:48:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/bmw-taps-bond-market-as-corporate-debt-risk-rises-for-second-day.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the
German luxury car maker, led European bond sales as the cost of
insuring company debt rose for the second day.  BMW sold 1.75 billion euros ($2.3 billion) of senior
unsecured bonds, its largest  offering  in the currency for a
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Markit iTraxx
Crossover Index of credit-default swaps on 50 companies with
mostly high-yield ratings rose seven basis points to a two-week
high of 433.  Bond risk climbed amid signs that Germany’s economy,
 Europe ’s largest, shrank in the fourth quarter and as U.S.
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner warned that failure to
lift the nation’s debt ceiling would hurt growth. Munich-based
BMW is targeting another year of record auto sales in 2013 as
the U.S. and  China  offset slumping demand in Europe.  “BMW is a strong name, it has high capital-market
acceptance on the bond side and the company improved its already
strong business and financial profile,” said Frank Hussing, a
credit analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .  BMW’s issue was split between 1 billion euros of bonds due
October 2016 that were priced to yield 38 basis points more than
the benchmark swap rate, and 2023 notes with a spread of 73
basis points, according to people familiar with the transaction.
That compares with an average spread of 117 basis points on
European company debt, the smallest gap since May 2011, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Euro Corporates Index shows.  Covered Bonds  Paris-based Electricite de France SA is marketing a four-
part sale of subordinated notes in euros, pounds and dollars to
European and U.S. investors, according to a person with
knowledge of the deal who asked not to be named because they’re
not authorized to speak about it.  In other debt sales, Deutsche Hypothekenbank AG in
Hannover,  Germany , and Oslo-based DNB Boligkredit AS priced
covered bonds, securities backed by loans and guaranteed by the
issuer. Sales of the debt will surpass 3.6 billion euros this
week, on pace to beat the weekly average of 4.7 billion euros
for the past year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps on
125 investment-grade companies increased one basis point to 105,
while the Markit iTraxx Financial Index of contracts on the
senior debt of banks and insurers increased three basis points
to 134.  A basis point on a credit-default swap contract protecting
10 million euros of debt from default for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  