-- BNP Paribas Hires Credit Salesmen Lesueur, Malik for U.S. Unit
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-01-15T14:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/bnp-paribas-hires-credit-salesmen-lesueur-malik-for-u-s-unit.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  hired Paul Lesueur
and Evan Malik for a U.S. credit group that’s undergoing changes
after adding former  UBS AG (UBSN)  investment-bank board member Jon Bass
last year.  Lesueur started at the firm’s New York office this month as
a senior junk-bond salesman, while Malik joined as head of U.S.
mortgage and asset-backed debt sales in December, according to
spokeswoman Cesaltine Gregorio. Both report to Bass, who became
the firm’s head of  fixed-income  sales and investor relationship
management in October.  France’s biggest bank has hired at least six credit brokers
in the U.S. during the past four months, including high-yield
bond trader Kurt Krestinski and junk salesman Jack Gill and
Chris Savinelli. The firm was the 18th most-active underwriter
of  junk bonds  in the U.S. last year, down from 14th place in
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lesueur, who joined from Lazard Capital Markets LLC,
previously worked at Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Inc.,
for five years through July 2007, according to records
maintained by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
Merrill Lynch is now part of Bank of America Corp. Malik, who
worked at UBS from 2001 to May 2008, most recently was employed
by CRT Capital Group LLC, the records show.  BNP Paribas said third-quarter profit more than doubled
after it posted higher revenue at the investment-banking unit.
While BNP Paribas reduced its staff by almost 2 percent from
2009 through 2011, it increased the number of employees in the
Americas by almost 1 percent, Bloomberg  data  show.  Bass joined the firm from Mizuho Financial Group Inc.,
where he had headed high-yield debt sales. Before that, he led
institutional sales and fixed income at MF Global Holdings Ltd.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 