-- KWG, Fantasia Market Bonds as China Debt Gains Least Since 2008
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-01-15T10:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/bond-risk-in-japan-and-australia-increases-default-swaps-show.html
KWG Property Holding Ltd. (1813)  and
Fantasia Holdings Group Co. are marketing dollar-denominated
notes as debt sold by Chinese companies returned the least in
five years. Bond risk in the region rose.  KWG Property, the Hong Kong-listed developer whose projects
include the five-star Sheraton Huadu Resort in  Guangzhou , is
offering perpetual notes to yield about 10.25 percent, according
to a person familiar with the matter. Fantasia, the Shenzhen-
based builder of boutique residences, is selling seven-year
bonds to yield about 10.875 percent, according to a separate
person familiar with the matter.  Dollar bonds sold by Chinese companies  returned  0.4 percent
in the first two weeks of 2013, the least for the beginning of
the year since 2008, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.
The notes gained the most of any corporate debt in Asia last
year, the indexes show.  “Valuation came from a very cheap level at the beginning
of 2012 to now what we consider to be more fair value,” said
Stephen Chang, head of Asian fixed income at JF Asset Management
Ltd., part of JPMorgan Asset Management Asia Inc. “We have to
really do a lot of work on security selection,” he said, adding
that he is still positive on bonds sold by developers.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  increased three basis point to 108 basis
points as of 4:39 p.m. in Hong Kong, according to Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc prices.  Perpetual Bonds  KWG is the second Chinese developer to sell perpetual bonds
this year after Agile Property Holdings Ltd. raised $700 million
from a sale of 8.25 percent notes on Jan. 11, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Agile’s bonds were yielding 8.51 percent as of
5:35 p.m. in Hong Kong, according to Credit Agricole SA prices
quoted on Bloomberg.  Powerlong Real Estate Holdings Ltd., which has developed a
complex in the eastern city of Fuzhou that contains a night club
and disco, is also considering an issue of dollar notes,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  “New issues will continue to be robust,” said Jeffrey Yap, the Hong Kong-based head of Asia fixed-income trading at
Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. “But it remains to be seen whether
the market will remain accommodative toward new names after the
recent performance of some of the first-time issuers.”  The  average yield  for dollar bonds in Asia fell two basis
points to 4.05 percent yesterday, according to JPMorgan indexes.  Credit Risk  Korea Development Bank, based in  Seoul , is marketing three-
year notes at a spread of about 90 basis points over similar-
maturity Treasuries and five-year notes at a spread of about 110
basis points, the person familiar with the matter said, asking
not to be identified because the terms aren’t set.  Development Bank of Japan is meanwhile considering pricing
as much as $1 billion of five-year securities at the low 20
basis-point area over mid-swaps, another person with knowledge
of the details said.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index advanced 5 basis points to
142 as of 4:35 p.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup Inc. prices show.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index increased two basis
points to 113.5 basis points as of 11:48 a.m. in Sydney,
according to Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. The
gauge is down 14 basis points since Dec. 31, extending a 53
basis-point drop in 2012, according to CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net ;
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  