-- Brazil Swap Rates Rise as Retail Sales Beat Forecast
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-01-15T20:20:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/brazil-swap-rates-rise-as-retail-sales-beat-forecast-real-drops.html
Brazilian swap rates rose as retail
sales advanced more than analysts forecast, backing speculation
that policy makers will refrain from cutting the Selic target
interest rate at their two-day policy meeting that begins today.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015 climbed two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.71 percent at the
close in Sao Paulo, the first increase since Jan. 8. The real
depreciated 0.2 percent to 2.0358 per dollar.  Retail sales rose for a sixth straight month in November,
climbing 0.3 percent, more than the 0.2 percent median forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Swap rates also increased
after O Estado de S. Paulo reported without saying where it
obtained the information that  Brazil  may raise diesel prices as
much as 5 percent, fanning concern that inflation will quicken.
The  Finance Ministry  declined to comment on the report.  “Swap rates adjusted to this retail sales number,” Carlos Kawall, the chief economist at Banco J. Safra SA in Sao Paulo,
said by phone. “In this context of high inflation and weak
activity, keeping the Selic unchanged for a long period is the
most probable scenario.”  Policy makers have left the benchmark rate unchanged at a
record low 7.25 percent since October. The central bank will
hold borrowing costs steady tomorrow, according to all of the 56
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Annual inflation has exceeded the 4.5 percent midpoint of
the central bank’s target range for 28 consecutive months. The
IPCA index of consumer prices increased 5.84 percent in December
from a year earlier after rising 5.53 percent in the prior
month, the national statistics agency reported last week.  Tax Breaks  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government has granted tax
breaks for goods including furniture, appliances and automobiles
to prop up demand and spur faltering growth in the world’s
second-largest emerging-market economy.  Brazil’s central bank estimates the economy grew 1 percent
last year, its worst performance since 2009, while economists
surveyed by the bank forecast 3.2 percent expansion this year.
The economy grew 2.7 percent in 2011 and 7.5 percent in 2010.  The real declined today along with most of the 16 major
currencies as concern that U.S. budget wrangling will weaken
growth in the world’s largest economy damped demand for
emerging-market assets.  President  Barack Obama  said yesterday he won’t bargain with
Republicans over raising the government’s debt ceiling and
called for separate discussions on spending cuts to narrow the
federal  budget deficit .  ‘Remain Attentive’  “Investors are digesting the discussions in the U.S. about
the debt ceiling,” Joao Paulo de Gracia Correa, the head of
 currency trading  at Correparti Corretora, said by telephone from
Curitiba. “The markets should remain attentive to this theme
until the end of the negotiations.”  The real has gained 1.6 percent since Dec. 20, when Carlos
Hamilton, the central bank’s director for economic policy, said
officials consider an exchange rate of 2.05 as more “adequate”
when creating economic forecasts than 2.10.  The central bank sold currency swaps in November and
December to stem the real’s declines. From August through
October, the bank sold reverse currency swaps to keep the real
weaker than 2 per dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  