-- British Airways Worker Wins Rights Court Ruling on Cross
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-01-15T12:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/british-airways-worker-wins-rights-court-ruling-on-cross.html
A  British Airways (IAG)  clerk who was sent
home for wearing a cross to work won a judgment at the  European
Court  of Human Rights over her claims that U.K. judges failed to
protect her religious freedom when they ruled against her.  The court in Strasbourg,  France , today rejected the claims
of three other British Christians who alleged religious
discrimination, including a nurse who wore a cross in violation
of a hospital’s health rules and a city worker who refused to
register civil partnerships of same-sex couples.  The BA employee, Nadia Eweida, was sent home in 2006 after
deciding to wear her cross over her uniform instead of under it,
according to the ruling. While the carrier changed its policy a
year later and allowed her to openly wear the cross, it violated
her religious freedoms protected under European law, said the
court, which hears cases from dozens of countries.  “The big message here for employers is to assess the
balance between the personal freedom requested and its likely
impact on others,”  Danielle Kingdon , an employment lawyer at
 Osborne Clarke , said in an e-mail. “The difficulty will, as
always, be in avoiding unconscious bias.”  The decision followed months of increasing tensions between
the human-rights court and the U.K., where politicians have
railed against what they see as European interference in
domestic legal matters. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said in
July he would change British law if the court in France ruled
against Eweida’s right to wear a cross at work.  Religious Belief  In a posting on Twitter Inc.’s social-networking service,
Cameron said he was pleased the “principle of wearing religious
symbols at work has been upheld” and that people “shouldn’t
suffer discrimination due to religious beliefs.”  BA wasn’t a party in the case because Eweida sued the U.K.
government over the court system’s failure to protect her
rights. A British employment tribunal had rejected her case
after finding wearing a cross isn’t a requirement of the
Christian faith. The U.K. Court of Appeal also ruled against her
and the U.K. Supreme Court declined to hear the claim.  “Our own uniform policy was changed in 2007 to allow Miss
Eweida and others to wear symbols of faith, and she and other
employees have been working under these arrangements for the
last six years,” BA, a unit of International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA, said in an e-mailed statement.  The  human-rights  court said that, while BA’s effort to
project a certain corporate image was “undoubtedly
legitimate,” U.K. courts gave the company’s argument too much
weight.  Turbans, Hijabs  “Other BA employees had previously been authorized to wear
items of religious clothing such as turbans and hijabs without
any negative impact on BA’s brand or image,” the human-rights
court wrote in a summary of today’s ruling.  Shirley Chaplin, the hospital employee, faced different
circumstances because the facility’s ban on jewelry of any kind
was specifically intended to protect the health and safety of
the public, rather than an image, the court said.  “Hospital managers were better placed to make decisions
about clinical safety than a court,” according to the ruling.  Today’s judgment also dealt with appeals from Lilian
Ladele, who was fired by the  Borough of Islington  in  London , and
Gary McFarlane, who worked at relationship-counseling service
Relate. Ladele refused to register gay couples seeking civil-
partnership documents and McFarlane developed a religious
“conflict” over his required work with gay people, according
to the ruling.  The court backed both organizations because their policies
“had the legitimate aim of securing the rights of others, such
as same-sex couples,” which are protected under European law.  “Employees who serve the public have been sent a clear
signal that promoting equal opportunities, and requiring them to
act in a way which does not discriminate against service users,
overrides their religious or philosophical beliefs at work,”
 Ray Silverstein , an employment lawyer at Browne Jacobson, said
in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Erik Larson at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  