-- Broadband Research Founder Gets 4 Years in Insider Case
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-01-16T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/broadband-research-founder-gets-4-years-in-insider-case.html
John Kinnucan, the expert-networker
who refused to cooperate in a U.S. probe of  insider trading 
before admitting to passing tips to hedge-fund clients, was
sentenced to four years and three months in prison.  U.S. District Judge  Deborah Batts  in Manhattan yesterday
rejected arguments by Kinnucan’s lawyers that his actions
stemmed from alcohol abuse triggered by the stress of being the
target of a federal crackdown on insider trading. Defense lawyer
Jennifer Brown also said Kinnucan, the founder of Broadband
Research LLC, suffered from an addiction to gambling in the
stock market.  “It appears his sense of entitlement and anger are equally
if not more to blame than gambling or alcohol addiction,” the
judge said. “Insider trading is a serious crime and obstruction
of justice by threatening personally the government authorities
who are doing their jobs by investigating and prosecuting
insider trading cannot be tolerated.”  Kinnucan, has been in custody since he was arrested at his
Portland, Oregon, home by agents with the FBI on Feb. 16. He
pleaded guilty in July to one count of conspiracy and two counts
of  securities fraud . His lawyers sought a two-year prison term,
while prosecutors asked for 57 months, the maximum allowed by
law, rather than a range of time under U.S. sentencing
guidelines.  ‘I’m Sorry’  Kinnucan spoke briefly before his sentence was imposed,  “I just like to say I’m sorry to everyone for the trouble
my actions caused; it wasn’t my intention,” he said. “I’m
deeply sorry.”  He emerged as a figure in the insider-trading probe when he
sent an e-mail to his hedge fund clients in October 2010,
announcing he had refused a request to wear a wire for the FBI
and inform on them for the U.S.  “Today, two fresh-faced eager beavers from the FBI showed
up unannounced (obviously) on my doorstep thoroughly convinced
that my clients have been trading on copious inside
information,” Kinnucan said in the e-mail.  He continued, “We obviously beg to differ, so have
therefore declined the young gentlemen’s gracious offer to wear
a wire and therefore ensnare you in their devious web.”  The offer to Kinnucan presaged dozens of arrests as part of
law enforcement initiatives by Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s office and the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  in New
York against insider trading at  hedge funds .  Threat ‘Campaign’  In the months leading up to his arrest,  Kinnucan
obstructed justice by engaging in a “campaign” of threats
against prosecutors and agents, the U.S. said. During a hearing
last year, prosecutors played profanity-filled voice-mails he
left with assistant U.S. attorneys, FBI agents and a witness who
is cooperating with the government’s investigation. The voice-
mails contain numerous ethnic and racial slurs and references to
the Holocaust.  “Too bad Hitler is not around, you should be in the gas
chamber,” Kinnucan said in one message on a federal
prosecutor’s office phone in December 2011.  While a defense sentencing memo to the judge wasn’t filed
publicly, prosecutors quoted from it in court papers, saying
Kinnucan’s lawyers said he had been under the influence of
alcohol when he made the calls.  Prosecutors also quoted from a psychological report by U.S.
Probation officials submitted by the defense in which Kinnucan
contends the voice-mail messages he left didn’t reflect his true
beliefs, saying the defendant said during the interview, “My
best friend is Jewish.”  ‘Cautionary Tale’  In court yesterday, Brown called the case a “cautionary
tale” for someone who challenges the government and said her
client’s actions had “riled up” the government. She said
Kinnucan lost 35 pounds, his business failed and his wife,
Catherine, filed for divorce.  “It was not a carefully orchestrated campaign,” Brown
told the judge. She said Kinnucan had been drinking heavily
before his arrest and that his mother and two brothers had died,
putting him under emotional stress.  “These are the rants of someone who, for a time, became
unhinged,” Brown said. “He lashed out at the world and blamed
everyone for things of his own making.”  Batts said Kinnucan aggressively targeted those in the
government he blamed for his woes.  “He lashed out in anger when approached by government
employees and made a spectacle of himself in the press,” Batts
said. “He harangued and threatened government witnesses, agents
and prosecutors with obscene, hateful, despicable and repetitive
rantings.”  Brown declined to comment after court yesterday.  Inside Information  Kinnucan pleaded guilty to obtaining and passing illegal
tips to clients of his expert-networking firm, including two in
New York. Prosecutors said he got inside information about
 SanDisk Corp. (SNDK) ,  F5 Networks Inc. (FFIV)  and  OmniVision Technologies
Inc. (OVTI) , including quarterly revenue numbers, after befriending
employees of technology companies.  He paid his sources in a variety of ways, prosecutors said,
including by buying them meals at high-end restaurants and
shipping them expensive food, as well as giving them
confidential information about other technology companies.  “Today’s sentence of John Kinnucan is a fitting conclusion
to a criminal odyssey that began with the buying and selling of
inside information and evolved into a vile and very public
campaign to threaten public servants and obstruct the federal
investigation into Kinnucan’s conduct,” Bharara said in a
statement yesterday. “Mr. Kinnucan will now pay for both crimes
with his liberty.”  Kinnucan was ordered by Batts to forfeit $164,000 he made
in illegal profit earned from his clients for the insider tips.  ‘Shocking, Terrifying’  In late 2010, Kinnucan appeared on CNBC and wrote a Nov.
29, 2010, essay for the  New York  Times’ Dealbook in which he
called the visit by FBI agents to his home “a shocking,
terrifying experience.”  He also argued the government was
attempting to “retroactively criminalize” industry practices.  In a July 2011 Bloomberg News interview, Kinnucan said his
research was based on “publicly available information.”  “The stuff we talked about you can find every day,
publicly, on the Internet,” he said, citing numerous examples
of the kind of data he called “channel checks” and provided to
clients.  Batts said she would recommend to U.S. Bureau of Prisons
officials that Kinnucan serve his term at FCI Sheridan, a
medium-security facility located in Northwest Oregon.  As part of his sentence, Batts directed that Kinnucan enter
an anger-management program while in prison, receive periodic
testing for substance abuse, including alcohol, and be subjected
to random searches of his premises and blood-testing.  The case is U.S. v. Kinnucan, 12-cv-163, U.S District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  