-- Brookfield Gets $340 Million Loan for Manhattan West
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-01-15T19:14:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/brookfield-gets-340-million-loan-for-manhattan-west.html
Brookfield Office Properties Inc. (BPO) 
said it obtained a $340 million loan to finance construction of
a platform over a railroad trench for its Manhattan West
development as work began on the $4.5 billion project.  A group of banks including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Bank of New
York Mellon Corp. (BK) ,  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , Bank of  Nova Scotia 
and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  is providing the financing, Brookfield
Chief Executive Officer Dennis Friedrich said today at the
platform’s groundbreaking. The deck, which will cover tracks
used mainly by Amtrak and New Jersey Transit, is likely to be
finished by late 2014 at a cost of $680 million, including land
expenses, he said.  Manhattan West will be “the front door of a thriving new
neighborhood,” Friedrich said. The 5 million-square-foot
(465,000-square-meter) project “will serve as a much-needed
expansion of the Midtown central business district.”  Manhattan West and nearby Hudson Yards, being developed by
Stephen Ross’s Related Cos., will create more than 18 million
square feet of properties and give  New York  a new cluster of
skyscrapers extending west to almost the Hudson River. Related
last month began work on its first tower, a 47-story property to
be anchored by Coach Inc., the biggest U.S. luxury handbag
maker.  Brookfield will use bridge-building technology to construct
the deck over the 65-foot (20-meter) trench. The New York-based
company plans to drop precast concrete segments into place while
minimizing disruption of train service, Friedrich said. The
landlord will invest about $340 million of its own money in the
platform and will take no public subsidies, he said.  Plans  for Manhattan West call for two office towers of
about 2 million square feet each, a high-rise apartment
building, retail, restaurants and 1.5 acres (0.6 hectares) of
outdoor space. Brookfield needs commitments from anchor tenants
before beginning the first  office tower , Friedrich said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  