-- Cadillac Shows ELR With Powertrain Beloved by Volt Owners
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-01-15T05:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/cadillac-shows-elr-with-powertrain-beloved-by-volt-owners.html
When  General Motors Co. (GM)  decided to
make a plug-in hybrid, there was lively discussion behind closed
doors whether the first model should be a Chevrolet or a
Cadillac. The Chevy arguments won out and the Volt was born.  The Volt -- the first car to mix all-electric capabilities
with a gas engine to extend the range -- has had a tough time,
with disappointing sales and, for Republicans during the
presidential campaign, as a symbol of the failings of President
 Barack Obama ’s auto-industry bailout.  Now, GM has a second chance with Volt technology: the
Cadillac ELR plug-in hybrid, being revealed today at the North
American International Auto Show in Detroit.  “GM is saying to the world we’re committed to this
extended-range hybrid system,” said Larry Dominique, executive
vice president of TrueCar.com, a website that tracks auto sales.  The Volt, chosen as 2011’s North American  Car of the Year ,
succeeded in satisfying its customers, with 92 percent of survey
respondents telling Consumer Reports they would buy one again --
the second straight year it ranked highest. GM’s luxury brand
Cadillac won its first such award yesterday with its ATS sedan.  While the electric-drive Cadillac won’t go on sale until
2014 and first-year sales will likely be small, it’s important
to Cadillac and to GM. It will help to freshen Cadillac’s image
at a time when other luxury brands, which tend to have higher
profit margins than less-expensive vehicles, have pushed
Cadillac to the second tier.  ‘Provocative’ Technology  “The ELR puts us in a position to be provocative, to be a
technology leader, to offer something that is unique and
exclusive, and those sound like attributes that go back to
‘Cadillac’ the adjective,” Bob Ferguson, the brand’s leader,
said in an interview last week.  In addition, offering another model for sale can spread the
costs of the technology over more vehicles and reduce the cost
per car to accelerate the time to break even on the expensive
technology.  The ELR will compete most directly with offerings from
unprofitable luxury electric-car start-ups  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  and
Fisker Automotive Inc., rather than  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Lexus
luxury hybrids, which are based on technology used in the
popular Prius line. GM’s new car will land closer to  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW i3 electric model, set to go into
production in the fourth quarter, and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Porsche
918 Spyder, an $845,000 hybrid, coming later this year.  More Than Volt  While GM hasn’t said what the ELR will cost, it will be
more than the Volt. It will probably cost around $60,000 to
$70,000, said a person familiar with the pricing who asked not
to be identified revealing private plans.  The Volt went on sale in 2010 with the aim of putting GM’s
 Chevrolet  on the forefront of green technology globally and
taking on Toyota’s mass-market  Prius hybrid , which starts at
$24,200. GM originally aimed to sell 60,000 Volts worldwide last
year before lowering the target to 35,000. In the U.S., it sold
23,461. GM hasn’t said how many it sold worldwide.  Part of  Volt ’s problem has been price. Starting at $39,145,
the four-seat small car loaded up with pricey batteries is much
more costly than a similar-size traditional compact, even with a
$7,500 tax credit. The  Toyota Corolla , for example, starts at
$16,230. The best deal on a Volt has been through a lease, with
monthly payments currently advertised at $329 on Chevy’s website.  Cadillac Demographics  That’s one of the arguments for why offering Volt as a
Cadillac may have helped. Cadillac buyers expect to pay more
than Chevrolet buyers, and luxury buyers are also attracted to
the latest in technology, such as the Volt’s unique powertrain
system.  “The demographics of the electric-car buyer are really
more in line with Cadillac than Chevrolet,” said  Rebecca Lindland , an industry analyst with IHS Automotive.  Compared with buyers of mainstream models, luxury buyers
more often finance the purchase with a lease, which often
requires a smaller down payment or lower monthly bill. About 38
percent of Cadillac sales last year in the U.S. were leases,
while Chevrolet had only 12 percent, according to Edmunds.com.
Of GM’s U.S. Volt sales last year, 46 percent were leases,
Edmunds said.  Since the days of Henry Leland, who founded  Cadillac  more
than 110 years ago, the brand prided itself on having some of
the auto industry’s innovations. Electric starters, power
steering and mass-produced V-8 engines were first in Cadillac
cars before costs came down and spread to cheaper vehicles. Volt
technology would have been another in the list.  Brand Arguments  Ferguson acknowledged that’d he heard the arguments before
that Cadillac should have gone first. Another GM executive, Ed Welburn, the company’s design chief, confirmed it was part of
the early development discussions.  If the model was just for the U.S., then the arguments for
selling the technology under a Cadillac badge first would be
right, said Bob Lutz, the former GM vice chairman, who led
development of the Volt.  “But Chevrolet was/is GM’s global brand, and we wanted
global distribution,” he said in an e-mail. “A Cadillac-
branded Volt would have had almost zero potential in  Europe ,
Latin America, Eastern Europe, Australia and Asia.”  As the debate about Volt continued, GM designers and
engineers worked in the background on the ELR. The new two-door
Cadillac is sportier than the four-door Chevy. It’s as if the
Volt and Cadillac CTS Coupe had a baby named ELR. The electric
car’s styling includes a muscular hood, wide stance, 20-inch
wheels and tail-lights that form slight wings that hint at
Cadillac designs of a bygone era.  Interior Touches  Inside, the SLR has four seats, just as the Volt does,
while the interior touches are less nerdy and more refined than
its Chevrolet brother. Opus semi-aniline leather seats are
offered and engineers dreamed up an electronic-assisted cup-
holder door.  The Volt can go about 38 miles on all-electric power before
the gasoline engine kicks on, Chris Thomason, ELR chief engineer
said. The ELR, which is heavier, will go about 35 miles, while
having a “radically” driving experience, he said, one that is
“more performance-oriented.”  In focus groups held in  California , GM found that potential
buyers of the ELR, which starts production late this year, were
interested in different things than Volt shoppers.  “The top question was not around fuel economy,” Ferguson
said of ELR’s market. “It was more around performance, styling
and technology leadership.”  While U.S. Volt sales may increase 70 percent to 40,000
this year, ELR’s first year of sales in 2014 may reach only
1,500, said Alan Baum, an industry researcher.  Still, this isn’t just about ELR sales, GM Chief Executive
Officer Dan Akerson said last week in  Detroit .  “It will be a statement car that I think will bring people
into the showroom,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  