-- Canadian Dollar Falls Against Yen on Japan Stimulus View
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-01-15T22:17:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/canadian-dollar-falls-as-japan-signals-wariness-of-drop.html
The Canadian dollar weakened the
most in six months against the yen on speculation the central
bank may limit policies to devalue the currency after  Japan ’s
economy minister said the country faces economic risks.  The currency fell earlier today against its U.S.
counterpart as Canadian existing home sales fell and
manufacturing in the  New York  region unexpectedly contracted in
January, indicating economic headwinds for the nation’s largest
trading partner. Japan’s Akira Amari warned currency weakness
could negatively impact consumers, signaling the government may
avoid pushing the central bank to enact more monetary stimulus.  “Two weeks ago they were trying to weaken the yen and now
they’re saying it’s weakening too fast,” David Bradley,
director of foreign-exchange trading at Scotia Capital Inc., a
unit of  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , said by phone from Toronto. “That
basically turned around dollar/yen, all the yen crosses, euro-
yen is quite a bit lower, dollar-yen is quite a bit lower so
it’s kind of a risk-off scenario.”  The Canadian dollar, called the loonie for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, was little changed at 98.43 cents
per  U.S. dollar  at 5:07 p.m. in Toronto, after declining the
most since Jan. 4. One loonie buys $1.0160.  The Canadian currency weakened 0.8 percent versus the yen
to 90.21 yen per loonie, after posting its largest drop since
June.  Price Swings  A gauge of volatility traded close to the lowest in 12
years. Implied volatility for three-month options on the U.S.
dollar versus the loonie touched 5.43 percent It reached 5.32
percent on Dec. 19, the lowest since Oct. 11, 2000. Implied
volatility signals the expected pace of currency swings and is
quoted and used by traders to set option prices.  The country’s benchmark 10-year bonds rose, with yields
falling three basis points to 0.03 percentage point, to 1.91
percent. The 2.75 percent note maturing in June 2022 rose 27
cents to C$107.20.  The  Bank of Canada  will sell C$3.3 billion ($3.4 billion)
of notes maturing in May 2015 tomorrow.  Futures on crude oil,  Canada ’s largest export, fell 0.7
percent to $93.47 per barrel and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
rose 0.1 percent.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s  general economic
index  fell to minus 7.8 from a revised minus 7.3 in December.
The median forecast of 54 economists in a Bloomberg survey
called for a reading of zero, which signals no change in
conditions. Readings of less than zero signal contraction in New
York, northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  Economic Data  “Manufacturing activity, the first look still suggests
growth is still a challenge in the  U.S. economy  at the moment
and it could be difficult for Canada to really do too much,
apart from the crosses, where we’ve seeing movement on euro-
Canada and Canada-yen,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency
strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, by phone from Toronto.  U.S. retail sales rose more than expected in December and
prices received by U.S. commodities producers fell.  Home resales declined 0.5 percent during December to 35,386
units, the  Canadian Real Estate Association  said in a statement
today from Ottawa. While the number of transactions dropped 17.4
percent from a year earlier, capping an annual decline in
transactions.  “Markets are at a loss on how to react right now with no
one overriding factor to give it direction, especially
U.S./Canada which has been severely range bound,” said  John Curran , senior vice president at U.S.Forex Ltd., an online
foreign exchange dealer, by phone from Toronto. “U.S.-Canada is
not a story, everything else is.”  The loonie has gained 0.9 percent this month versus nine
developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. The greenback has dropped about 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  