-- Cars to Mom and Pop Shop Loans Drive Dubai Bank: Islamic Finance
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y
-- 2013-01-16T09:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/cars-to-mom-and-pop-shop-loans-drive-dubai-bank-islamic-finance.html
Emirates NBD PJSC’s (EMIRATES)  Islamic banking
unit expects to double profit in 2013 as individuals and small
businesses take out more loans amid Dubai’s economic revival,
the chief executive officer said.  Emirates Islamic Bank PJSC, wholly owned by the biggest
United Arab Emirates lender by assets, will seek to boost net
income to 150 million dirhams ($41 million) this year from about
80 million in 2012, Jamal Bin Ghalaita said in an interview. The
lender said last month it would raise capital by 63 percent to
3.9 billion dirhams through a rights issue.  Banks in Dubai, still struggling with non-performing loans
stemming from the 2008 real estate crash, are stepping up
efforts to boost  Islamic finance  as the industry’s global assets
are set to double by 2015. U.A.E. loan growth of 2.8 percent in
October was the slowest in the Gulf Cooperation Council as
lenders scaled back credit to government-related clients
following efforts by the central bank to limit their exposure.  “We’re aiming for big-but-cautious growth and the more
diversified you are, the safer you are,” Bin Ghalaita said at
his Dubai office on Jan. 14. Emirates Islamic will focus on
retail, small- and medium-enterprises and commercial banking,
including trade finance, “which is the core business of
Dubai,” he said.  Retail Shift  Emirates Islamic’s 4.147 percent 2018 bonds have rallied
since they were sold in July, sending the yield down 93 basis
points, or 0.93 percentage point, to 3.22 percent today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a 16
basis-point average decline from the same period to 2.77 percent
yesterday for debt of banks in the six-nation GCC tracked by
HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai’s GCC Financial Services U.S. Dollar Sukuk
Index.  The lender, which offers services that comply with Islam’s
ban on interest, is seeking to boost retail lending to 60
percent of the total from 40 percent now, Bin Ghalaita said.
Corporate loans currently make up the majority.  Lending to small businesses, personal loans, credit cards
and home financing are “resilient” because they spread risk
over a large pool of customers, Bin Ghalaita said.  Dubai is shifting focus to Shariah-compliant finance as
global assets may reach $3 trillion by 2015, according to
forecasts of  Standard & Poor’s . The emirate said this month it
would create an Islamic finance council to regulate equity and
fixed-income products as it seeks to become an industry hub.  Mortgage Caps  The move comes as the city, which was on the verge of
defaulting in 2009, recovers from a real estate crash that sent
 home prices  tumbling more than 65 percent from mid-2008 peaks.
Emirates NBD’s  profit  dropped in the following two years as
lenders grappled with bad loans and credit growth slowed.  Emirates Islamic reduced its exposure to the  property
market  by half to 20 percent and wants to bring it down to 17
percent, which will help shield the lender from the new caps on
mortgage lending unveiled last month, Bin Ghalaita said.  The U.A.E. central bank restricted the size of home loans
that expatriates can get from local banks to 50 percent of the
value of their first purchase, down from no limit previously, as
part of new rules which also curb home loans to citizens.  The curbs are  “quite challenging” for lenders, Bin
Ghalaita said. “It’s going to put big pressure, not on us
because we’re not a big player in mortgages, but on banks that
rely a lot on mortgages. And these banks and mortgage companies
will also face the challenge to book new business.”  Slowest Growth  The new rules may make it harder to revive U.A.E. loan
growth, which in October was less than a fifth the rate of
growth in  Saudi Arabia  and below  Kuwait , data from the
respective central banks show. Moody’s Investors Service last
month downgraded Dubai’s biggest banks, including Emirates NBD,
for failing to do enough to address the bad loans that piled up
following the crash.  Shariah-compliant banking will grow faster than
conventional lending since it’s starting “off a low base,”
 Philip Smith , senior director of financial institutions at Fitch
Ratings Ltd., said in an e-mail yesterday. Emirates Islamic’s
2012 net income is equal to just 3 percent of the parent’s
estimated 2.5 billion-dirham profit.  Emirates NBD’s shares jumped 6.1 percent, set for the
biggest gain in almost two years, at 1:25 p.m. in Dubai on two
times the three-month daily average trading volume, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Islamic Hub  The lender seeks to raise provisions to cover 60 percent of
its non-performing loans this year from 45 percent, the chief
executive said. “There are some accounts coming out of the
woods,” he said.  The bank is boosting capital as part of plans to double its
market share to 10 percent over the next three years, and as
high as 18 percent in eight years, Bin Ghalaita said. Dubai
wants to make Islamic finance a “core industry,” Sami Al Qamzi, director general of the Dubai Department of  Economic
Development , said on Jan. 9.  The yield on Dubai’s 6.396 percent sukuk due November 2014
fell 14 basis points this month to 2 percent today, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The spread investors demand to own
Dubai’s sukuk over  Malaysia ’s 3.928 percent notes due June 2015
narrowed 10 basis points to 70.  “We are gearing up for growth in the future,” Bin
Ghalaita said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  