-- CBOE Plans to Exclude Trading Executives From Board of Directors
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2013-01-15T19:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/cboe-plans-to-exclude-trading-executives-from-board-of-directors.html
The operator of the  Chicago Board
Options Exchange  plans to exclude trading-industry  directors 
from its board.  Three members who run brokerages and had been designated as
“representative directors” will leave and eventually be
replaced by executives from outside the trading industry, memos
on  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  website show.  The move is part of a broader response to an investigation
by the Securities and Exchange Commission into the exchange’s
role as a regulator responsible for overseeing the activities of
member firms, the Wall Street Journal reported yesterday. CBOE
disclosed the SEC probe last year.  Changing its makeup will remove conflicts on the board,
according to a person familiar with the changes, the Journal
said. Gail Osten, a CBOE spokeswoman, declined to comment.  The shift away from industry executives aligns CBOE’s
governance with other exchange operators such as NYSE Euronext
and Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. The number of individuals drawn from
the options brokerage industry has declined over the last 15
years as the number of public directors rose, tilting the
balance away from professionals working in the business.  The three industry executives elected representative
directors to the CBOE Holdings board in June are Benjamin Londergan, chief executive officer at Group One Trading LP; Mark F. Duffy, a managing member of Cornerstone Trading Group; and
Paul Kepes, a managing director at Chicago Trading Co. Londergan
has been on the CBOE board since 2008, Duffy since 1995 and
Kepes since 2007, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Advisory Panel  All three serve on a separate, 13-person CBOE advisory
panel composed mainly trading executives. The group, run by CBOE
President and Chief Operating Officer Edward Tilly, advises the
exchange about issues involving trading procedures and
offerings, market structure, competitive initiatives, products,
and legislative and SEC proposals, according to its charter.
CBOE Holdings Chairman and CEO Bill Brodsky is also on the
advisory board.  Tilly will become CEO of the Chicago-based company in May,
according to a statement last month. Brodsky will be executive
chairman of CBOE Holdings, the announcement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in  New York  at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 