-- NFL Chargers Hire Denver Broncos Coordinator McCoy as Coach
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-01-15T22:22:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/chargers-to-hire-broncos-coordinator-mccoy-as-coach-espn-says.html
The  San Diego Chargers  hired Denver
Broncos offensive coordinator Mike McCoy as coach to try to turn
around a team coming off its first losing season since 2003.  McCoy, 40, succeeds Norv Turner, who was fired on Dec. 31
after the Chargers went 7-9 and missed the National Football
League playoffs for the third straight year. The Chargers had a
56-40 record during Turner’s six-year tenure, including 24-24
the last three seasons.  The Broncos’ offense ranked second in the NFL in scoring
this season with quarterback  Peyton Manning . McCoy had
interviewed for the Miami Dolphins’ coaching vacancy a year ago
after helping Denver reach the playoffs with a read-option
offense led by quarterback  Tim Tebow .  “Mike has shown he has one of the most innovative minds in
football,” Chargers President Dean Spanos said in a statement.
“He has a track record of building offenses and maximizing the
abilities of his players.”  Before joining the Broncos staff in 2009, McCoy was an
assistant with the  Carolina Panthers  from 2000 to 2008.  It’s the second straight year the Broncos have had a
coordinator become coach of one of their rivals in the American
Football Conference’s Western Division. The  Oakland Raiders 
hired former Broncos defensive coordinator Dennis Allen as coach
last offseason.  ‘Excellent Coach’  “He’s going to make an excellent head coach and is
certainly qualified for the position,” Broncos coach John Fox
said. “Mike understands offenses in this league. Beyond that,
he’s got a great football mind. His preparation and detail --
his level of organization -- is very strong. As a play caller, I
had a lot of confidence in him and watched him have great
success.”  The Chargers dismissed General Manager A.J. Smith following
the season and hired former Indianapolis Colts Vice President of
Football Operations Tom Telesco last week to replace him.
Telesco interviewed McCoy over the past few days, along with
former Arizona Cardinals coach Ken Whisenhunt, Cincinnati
Bengals offensive coordinator Jay Gruden and former Chicago
Bears coach  Lovie Smith .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  