-- Chavez in Cuban Hospital as Maduro Gives 7-Minute Speech
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-01-16T00:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/chavez-in-cuban-hospital-as-maduro-gives-7-minute-speech.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
continues fighting for his health in a Cuban hospital for a
second month, leaving the delivery of the annual  state of the
union  address today to Vice President  Nicolas Maduro .  Chavez, who last year spoke for more than nine hours as he
sought to show that cancer wouldn’t affect his ability to
campaign for re-election, hasn’t been seen or heard from since
he stepped off an airplane in  Havana  on Dec. 10 to undergo a
fourth surgery. By contrast, Maduro, in a speech that lasted
just seven minutes, named his predecessor Elias Jaua as foreign
minister and left the podium.  “On a solemn day like this it doesn’t correspond for a
simple vice president to be standing here,” Maduro said. “End
of this report.”  The 58-year-old Chavez has been battling a lung infection
following his operation last month that prevented him from
attending his own swearing-in ceremony Jan. 10. The  Supreme
Court  said the inauguration could be delayed, leaving Chavez’s
handpicked successor Maduro to run affairs in  South America ’s
biggest oil exporter. The opposition has called the move a
violation of the constitution.  Chavez last month urged Venezuelans to vote for the 50-
year-old Maduro in new elections should he lose his battle with
cancer. Maduro said earlier today that he saw the president
yesterday in Havana along with national assembly head  Diosdado Cabello , Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  and other leaders. It was
the second meeting of Chavez’s top ministers in Cuba in two
weeks.  Capriles Reaction  Maduro’s naming Jaua as foreign minister should come under
review given that cabinet appointments are the president’s
domain, Henrique Capriles Radonski, who lost to Chavez by 11
percentage points in October, said in an e-mailed statement.  “The vice president should clarify whether he is acting as
interim president or as vice president, as the government
continually refers to him,” Capriles, who is governor of
Miranda state, said in the statement. “The only way a minister
can be designated is by a decree from the president.”  Climbing the Hill  “Our comandante is approaching the crest of the hill,”
Maduro said from Caracas during a meeting of regional governors.
“He is advancing.”  The government’s benchmark 2027 dollar bond rose 0.38 cent
to 99.38 cents on the dollar today, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The bond’s yield fell 5 basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 9.33 percent.  Maduro today rejected charges on social media that
 Venezuela  has become a “colony” of Cuba, saying that the
Caribbean island has the best scientists and doctors to treat
the ailing Chavez. The government hasn’t disclosed the kind of
cancer Chavez is suffering from.  “There are those who say we’re a colony of Cuba,” Maduro
said. “That’s offensive to Cuba and Venezuela. We won our
independence and liberty.”  Information Minister Ernesto Villegas said Jan. 13 that
Chavez’s health has been improving even as he receives
“specific measures” to aid with breathing problems following a
lung infection.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  