-- Chris Rock, Paul Rudd Play Charades: Scene Last Night
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-01-15T16:32:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/chris-rock-paul-rudd-play-charades-scene-last-night.html
Chris Rock earned his team the first
point in a game of charades last night, guessing “Eye of the
Tiger” after Jake Cannavale acted out “eye.”  Rock fared worse as the mime. Moving his arms around his
chest elicited the guesses “big” and “stomach.” With the
clock running down, the comedian and actor passed on “Full
Metal Jacket.”  At the  Labyrinth Theater Company ’s “Celebrity Charades”
gala last night, helpers on either side of the stage at Capitale
held up the answers to the audience, letting patrons giggle as
the players glided or flailed.  Watching nonverbal activities of celebrities was a great
antidote to the puffy, confessional speeches of the previous
night’s Golden Globes.  In fact, such ceremonies might benefit from charades. What
if Oscar presenters had to act out the best-picture nominations?  There were a few such attempts last night. Sam Rockwell
snarled and beat his chest presenting the first word of “Beasts
of the Southern Wild”; his team was so off-base he eventually
passed.  Paul Rudd conveyed the third word of his clue was “30” at
first producing the guess “This is 30” (Rudd stars in Judd Apatow’s “This is 40”), before Richard Kind correctly guessed
“Zero Dark Thirty.”  And Kind did a perfectly decent mime of eating pie, though
his team missed the point: “Life of Pi.”  Silver Medalist  Olympic silver medalist Sasha Cohen pretended to slit her
throat, leading her team quickly to “Murder, She Wrote.”
Designer Cynthia Rowley mimed swinging a bat, on her way to
helping her team win a point with “The Empire Strikes Back.”
Another Rowley highlight was moonwalking through miming
“Thriller.”  Labyrinth’s board chairman, Jeff Horwitz, head of  Proskauer
Rose LLP ’s private-equity real-estate practice, proved a solid
point earner on the answers “Golden Boy,” “New Girl,” and
many others.  Horwitz several years ago was asked to be chairman by
Philip Seymour Hoffman, one of the 131 members of the company,
who happens to be directing a Lab production this spring.  “The board isn’t choosing the path,” Horwitz said in an
interview. “We’re along for the ride. We exist to make sure
there’s a platform. Our job is to protect the artists.”  Company’s Slate  Horwitz attends the Summer Intensive, where plays are read
and developed, and from which the company’s slate is chosen. The
organization runs with about a $1 million annual budget, 75
percent of which comes from contributions, the rest from earned
income, said Danny Feldman, Labyrinth’s managing director, in an
interview.  BNY Mellon (BK)  and watchmaker Raymond Weil are supporters of
the company, and have their parts to play in the charades.
Raymond Weil provided the official clock for the competition.
BNY Wealth Management’s president of U.S. markets, tri-state,
Doris Meister, said she plays charades with her nine-year-old
twins.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Jeffrey Burke on  books , Robert
Heller on  music .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 