-- Clegg Warns Cameron Doubts Over Role in EU Risk U.K. Jobs
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-01-15T13:11:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/clegg-says-doubts-over-u-k-s-eu-membership-will-chill-economy.html
Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg 
accused  David Cameron  of putting the U.K. economy at risk by
fueling doubts over Britain’s future in the European Union.  Clegg, whose Liberal Democrat party governs in coalition
with Cameron’s Conservatives, said the prospect of a referendum
on Britain’s membership of the 27-country bloc could alarm
investors and have a “chilling effect” on jobs and growth.  Cameron said yesterday he’ll set out how he plans to
renegotiate Britain’s EU membership in a speech in the
Netherlands on Jan. 18 and signaled he supports putting the
outcome to a popular vote after the 2015 general election, with
the government arguing to stay in.  “We should be very careful at a time when the British
economy is still haltingly recovering from the worst economic
shock in a generation to create a very high degree and prolonged
period of uncertainty,” Clegg told BBC Radio 4 today.
“Uncertainty is the enemy of growth and jobs.”  Clegg also questioned whether the prime minister’s plan to
claw back as yet unspecified powers from the EU is achievable,
since it would require the agreement of other EU nations. “I
don’t agree with the premise that we can, on our own if you
like, unilaterally simply rewrite the terms of our membership
for this European club,” he said.  Not Enough  Cameron spoke with Swedish Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt 
about the  Europe  speech last night and he plans to talk to
Conservative ministers tomorrow, his spokesman, Jean-Christophe
Gray, told reporters in  London  today. The call with Reinfeldt
was “constructive and went well,” Gray said.  While it has been criticized by Clegg, other European
politicians and the U.S. for raising questions about Britain’s
future within the EU, Cameron’s proposal doesn’t go far enough
for many in his party who want a referendum sooner than 2015 on
a straight question of whether Britain should leave the EU.
Cameron dismissed that as a “false choice” yesterday.  The premier chose the Netherlands because it is a
“founding member of the EU” that is not “dissimilar” to the
U.K., with “a strong global-trading, outward-looking history,”
Gray said. The Sun newspaper reported last week that the speech
will be made in  The Hague .  “The beating heart of Britain is, we know we need to be in
Europe, because we are a trading nation,” Cameron told ITV
yesterday. “But we’re not happy with every aspect at the moment
-- there’s too much interference. People want that to be fixed,
they want more of a say. We shouldn’t be frightened to involve
the British people in that.”  Referendum Conditions  Clegg, whose party is the most pro-EU of the three main
political parties, said a referendum should be held if the EU
rewrites its rulebook to accommodate closer integration among
the 17 countries that use the euro.  “If there is a new treaty and that involves significant
transfer of power then, of course, people should have a say,”
Clegg said. “We do not know yet whether that will manifest
itself in a new treaty. We do not know if that new treaty will
ask new things of the  United Kingdom .”  There is a tradition of British prime ministers going to
the continent to make speeches on Europe.  Tony Blair  went to
Warsaw in 2000 to make the case for an expanded EU.  Winston Churchill  called for a  United States  of Europe in Zurich in 1946
to rebuild the continent in the aftermath of World War II.  Thatcher Speech  Margaret Thatcher  set out her European position in a speech
in Bruges,  Belgium , in 1988. That address is so idolized by
Conservatives that one of the pressure groups against further EU
integration is named after it -- The Bruges Group.  Cameron has promised his speech for months. On Dec. 10, he
joked to journalists that it was a “tantric approach to policy
making -- it’ll be even better when it does eventually come.”  The prime minister is under pressure from two sides. Many
in his party argue that a more hostile approach to Europe would
be popular with voters and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  last week raised the stakes by warning that the EU had
to change if Britain is to remain a member.  Meanwhile Philip Gordon, assistant secretary of state for
European Affairs in President  Barack Obama ’s administration,
last week warned Britain against a referendum, saying the U.K.
staying in the EU is important to U.S. interests.  Gunther Krichbaum, a member of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
 Christian Democrats  who heads the German parliament’s European
Affairs Committee, weighed in to suggest it was a bad approach
to negotiations. “You cannot create a political future if you
are blackmailing other states,” he told the  Guardian newspaper .  ‘Massive Disruption’  Business Secretary Vince Cable, a Liberal Democrat,
described talk of a referendum as “a massive disruption and
deeply unhelpful” at a time when the government is trying to
persuade companies to invest in the U.K.  Cameron yesterday defended his decision to raise the
question of Britain’s membership.  “This debate is happening anyway,” he told the  BBC . “We
have a choice as politicians: do we get out there, lead the
debate, make a choice that I think will be right for Britain and
right for Europe, or hide your head in the sand?”  His hand is being forced by pressure within his own party
amid growing support from 2010 Tory voters for the U.K.
Independence Party, which advocates withdrawal from the EU.
Recent polls put UKIP on about 10 percent support.  Britain’s relationship with Europe has been the subject of
two record-breaking Conservative rebellions since Cameron took
office in 2010. On Oct. 31, the premier suffered his first House
of Commons defeat after 53 of his lawmakers defied him to vote
for a real cut in the EU budget, rather than the freeze he’d
said he was seeking. A year earlier, 81 Conservative lawmakers
voted for a referendum on pulling out of the EU.  Polls suggest voters wouldn’t support withdrawal from the
EU in the referendum Cameron proposed. A  YouGov Plc (YOU)  survey of
1,995 adults conducted Jan. 10-11 found more people saying life
outside the EU would be worse than better. And while they
initially said they would vote for Britain to leave by 42
percent to 36 percent, asked how they would vote if he had
conducted a renegotiation and was advocating staying in, they
said they would support membership by 50 percent to 25 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  