-- Clinton to Testify on Benghazi at House Hearing Next Week
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-01-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/clinton-to-testify-on-benghazi-at-house-hearing-next-week.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
will testify before the House Foreign Affairs Committee next
week to answer lawmakers’ questions about the deadly attack on a
U.S. diplomatic mission in Benghazi,  Libya .  Clinton will make her appearance on Jan. 23, Representative
Ed Royce, a California Republican and chairman of the committee,
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  “My intention is for this hearing to focus on why this
attack was not better anticipated, what leadership failures at
the State Department existed, and what management deficiencies
need to be corrected in order to better secure our diplomatic
facilities abroad and protect our diplomats serving in them,”
Royce said in his statement.  Clinton’s testimony may help clear the way for the
confirmation hearings of President  Barack Obama ’s choice for her
successor, Massachusetts Senator  John Kerry . Republican
lawmakers have said it’s important to hear from Clinton directly
on the Benghazi attack before she leaves office.  Republicans have called on Clinton to appear before
Congress to explain the security shortcomings that killed U.S.
personnel in the Sept. 11 assault. Four Americans, including
Ambassador Chris Stevens, died at the compound, where security
was “grossly inadequate,” according to an independent review
panel appointed by Clinton.  The panel found the State Department “demonstrated a lack
of proactive leadership and management ability,” though the
criticism was directed at officials below Clinton’s level.  Implementing Remedies  Clinton, in a letter to Congress last month, said she
accepted “every one” of the review board’s recommendations and
vowed to correct the department’s failures. She said the State
Department has begun working to hire additional diplomatic
security for U.S. missions and is working with the Pentagon to
dispatch hundreds of additional Marine Corps security guards to
U.S. embassies and other facilities.  The Benghazi attack was a flashpoint in the presidential
election, and Republicans have criticized the officials, such as
U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations  Susan Rice , for their
early accounts of the circumstances.  Clinton’s congressional testimony has been delayed by
health issues that prompted her monthlong absence from work.  Clinton, 65, was released from New York-Presbyterian
Hospital on Jan. 2 after treatment for a blood clot discovered
between her skull and brain during a check-up before her planned
return last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  