-- Colombian Peso Drops on Intervention Signal
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-01-15T19:04:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/colombian-peso-advances-on-foreign-investment-outlook.html
Colombia’s peso fell the most in
five months after policy makers indicated they may take further
measures to ease a decade-long rally that is squeezing
exporters’ profit margins.  The peso tumbled 0.6 percent to 1,769.83 per dollar at the
close in Bogota, the biggest drop since Aug. 15. It touched
1,750.50 on Jan. 2, the strongest intraday level since July
2011, and has rallied 1.5 percent in the past month. The peso
gained 9.7 percent last year, part of a 64 percent decade-long
surge that is the biggest in  emerging markets .  Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  told reporters yesterday
the Treasury will boost dollar purchases this month and buy
about $1 billion this year for its petroleum stability fund,
where some of the country’s oil royalties are invested. Central
Bank Governor Jose Dario Uribe said on RCN Radio today that
policy makers are worried about the peso’s rally since December
and Colombia would benefit from a weaker currency. Cardenas said
on  Caracol Radio  today that he wants the peso to weaken toward
1,800.  “There are elements that indicate the peso won’t remain as
strong,” Andres Langebaek, the chief economist at  Banco
Davivienda SA (PFDAVVND) , the nation’s third-biggest bank, said in a
telephone interview. Policy makers “have demonstrated their
willingness to act.”  The central bank bought a record $4.8 billion last year
while the government purchased $1.9 billion, President  Juan
Manuel Santos  said yesterday on Caracol Radio. Banco de la
Republica may also boost dollar purchases from the current
minimum of $20 million a day through the first quarter to curb
the peso’s advance, Langebaek said.  Target Rate  Policy makers have also lowered the overnight lending rate
by 1 percentage point since July to 4.25 percent, helping to
weaken the peso. The  central bank  will cut the benchmark by a
quarter-percentage point to 4 percent at its Jan. 28 meeting,
according to 16 of 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Three
project borrowing costs to stay unchanged.  The peso will drop to 1,800 in the first half of the year
as lower  interest rates  make the currency less attractive to
international investors, Langebaek said.  A  tax cut  on overseas investors’ bond profits is
contributing to gains in the peso, Cardenas and Uribe said
today. Colombia reduced the levy on domestic securities to 14
percent from 33 percent as of Jan. 1 to help increase demand for
local bonds and lower the nation’s borrowing costs.  Capital Controls  In the interview with Caracol Radio, Cardenas said
Colombia’s government doesn’t like  capital controls  “but it’s
not good to say never.”  Colombia probably won’t impose such controls because that
would go against the country’s efforts to attract overseas
investors,  Camilo Perez , the head analyst at Banco de Bogota,
said in a phone interview.  “The government has shown if anything it wants to attract
foreign investors into Colombia,” Perez said. “Especially
after the bond tax cut, it’s not going to foil those plans by
introducing capital controls.”  To stem a rally in the peso in 2007, policy makers ordered
companies and investors taking loans abroad to deposit 40
percent of the funds in the central bank for six months to
reduce the incentive to bring in short-term capital. The  Finance
Ministry  imposed deposit requirements on new portfolio
investments in the country including bonds and stocks. The
controls were abolished in 2008.  The yield on  Colombia ’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due in July 2024 rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 5.47 percent, according to the central bank. The
bond’s price fell 0.331 centavo to 137.961 centavo per peso. The
yield dropped yesterday to 5.43 percent, the lowest since the
securities were first issued in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  