-- Constitution May Not Apply to Sept. 11 Defendants
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-01-15T23:54:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/constitution-may-not-apply-to-sept-11-defendants.html
The military judge overseeing the
prosecution of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and four other men accused
of plotting the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks ruled that the
U.S. Constitution may not always apply in the case, a lawyer for
one of the defendants said.  U.S. Army Colonel James Pohl said today that there won’t be
a “presumption” that the five defendants are protected by
legal rights afforded by the Constitution, according to James
Connell, an attorney for Ammar al Baluchi, a nephew of
Mohammed’s who allegedly helped finance the attacks. Instead,
the judge will make individual rulings as to whether the
Constitution applies in particular instances, he said.  “We have to debate at each hearing whether the
Constitution applies,” Connell said in an interview after
distributing an e-mail announcing the ruling. “We have to fight
it out” one-by-one.  The decision itself remains classified and isn’t publicly
available, he said. Army Lieutenant Colonel Todd Breasseale, a
Pentagon spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed
request for comment on the decision.  The question of whether the Constitution applies is one of
the critical legal issues in the prosecution before the military
tribunal at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.  ‘Sweeping Pronouncements’  In opposing the defendants’ motion to recognize the
Constitution, government prosecutors argued the issue is
“unripe for adjudication,” according to court documents. They
urged the judge not to issue a “sweeping pronouncement” on
constitutional rights in military tribunals that would be
“outside the context of any concrete dispute over a particular
substantive or procedural issue.”  Hearings are scheduled to resume on Jan. 28 in Guantanamo
Bay. One issue before the court is whether the government must
preserve still-existing evidence from so-called black sites
where the defendants were allegedly tortured.  The judge will also weigh whether the government must
surrender to the defense documents from the administration of
President  George W. Bush  about the U.S. interrogation program.  The case is U.S. v. Mohammed, Military Commissions Trial
Judiciary (Guantanamo Bay, Cuba).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in  New York  at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  