-- Costa Rica Seeks to Slow Capital Inflows as Currency Gains
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-01-16T00:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/costa-rica-seeks-to-slow-capital-inflows-as-currency-gains-1-.html
Costa Rica ’s government will seek
Congressional support next week for legislation targeting short-
term capital inflows after the country’s currency jumped the
most against the dollar in  Latin America .  President Laura Chinchilla and Vice President Luis
Liberman, speaking to reporters today in San Jose, said they
want Congress to raise the percentage of capital inflows
investors must keep in longer-term deposits as well as increase
taxes on profits from those investments to 25 percent from 8
percent. The government will give more details of the plan on
Jan. 17.  “Speculative capital inflows are real and massive weapons
of mass destruction against the economy of a country,”
Chinchilla said.  Costa Rica’s currency, the colon, has gained 2.2 percent
versus the dollar this year, the most among Latin American
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The colon has gained 1.5
percent versus the dollar over the past 12 months, the most of
any Central American economy. The colon fell 0.1 percent to
497.33 per dollar today.  The central bank lets the colon’s value fluctuate daily
within a “crawling band” system that allows for movement
between a fixed ceiling and floor. Today’s band ranged from 491
colones ($0.99) to 502 colones, according to the central bank.  The central bank has bought more than $150 million in the
 currency market  since the start of the year to help stabilize
the colon, Liberman said. A strengthening currency hurts
exporters by making their goods more expensive abroad. Monica
Segnini, president of the Costa Rican Chamber of Exporters, said
the chamber was “pleased to hear” of today’s proposal,
newspaper El Financiero reported.  Liberman will send Congress the proposed legislation next
week, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in  San Jose , Costa Rica at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  