-- Croatia’s EU Entry to Force Fiscal-Policy Prudence, Sosic Says
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k   a n d   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-01-15T12:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/croatia-s-eu-entry-to-force-fiscal-policy-prudence-sosic-says.html
Croatia’s European Union entry this
year will fuel investment and force the government to stick to
prudent fiscal policies, central bank Deputy Governor Vedran
Sosic said.  The Balkan country is set to emerge from a recession this
year, with gross domestic product probably expanding 0.3
percent, Sosic said. Even as the external environment remains
risky because of  Europe ’s debt crisis, the economy is showing
signs of rebalancing with exports picking up, he said.  EU entry “will help put fiscal policy on a sustainable
path,” he said in an interview while attending a Euromoney
conference in Vienna today. Accession should also lead “to a
new wave of greenfield investment.”  The Adriatic Sea nation, which is set to become the bloc’s
28th member in July, is struggling to return to economic growth.
Its  credit rating  was cut to junk on Dec. 14 by  Standard &
Poor’s , which cited delays by the government in implementing
structural and fiscal changes. The ratings company said the
economy will contract 2 percent in 2012 and stagnate in 2013.  It’s up to the government to carry out the overhaul as the
central bank’s scope to stimulate growth is “narrow,” Sosic
said.  “The central bank has been pursuing a loose  monetary
policy  since the crisis broke out,” he said. “Monetary policy
has purchased time for structural reforms.”  The  International Monetary Fund  on Nov. 13 said Croatia’s
economy will shrink 1.5 percent this year. The Washington-based
lender has urged the government to remove barriers to investment
and employment in order to return to growth in 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Vienna at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  