-- CVS, Rite Aid See Flu Shot Shortages Amid Demand Surge
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-01-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/cvs-rite-aid-seeing-flu-shot-shortages-amid-surge-in-demand.html
CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  and  Rite Aid
Corp. (RAD) , two of the largest U.S. drugstore chains, said they are
running short of influenza vaccines as an earlier and more
severe flu season drives up demand from  Michigan  to  New Jersey .  Requests for the shots at CVS are unprecedented for this
time of year and the company is working to resupply its
pharmacies and clinics, said Mike DeAngelis, a spokesman for the
Woonsocket, Rhode Island-based chain, in an e-mail. Rite Aid is
moving supply from location to location, said Ashley Flower, a
spokeswoman for the Camp Hill, Pennsylvania-based company.  This year’s  flu season  started earlier than in past years
with 47 states now experiencing widespread flu, and New York
state and  Boston  declaring health emergencies. That has sent
more people than usual to pharmacies and doctors’ offices in
search of the vaccine. While the  Food and Drug Administration 
confirmed reports of spot shortages of vaccines, government
officials said there isn’t a widespread lack of supply.  “If you seek it out, you should be able to find it,”
Curtis Allen, a spokesman for the Atlanta-based Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “There has been a lot of attention to the severity
of the season and therefore people are seeking out the
vaccine.”  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , which makes a  flu vaccine  for the U.S.
market, said that while some places might have low supply, it
wasn’t aware of any national shortage.  “It appears there’s enough flu vaccine out there, it’s
just a matter of where it is,” Rob Perry, a spokesman for the
drugmaker, said yesterday in a telephone interview. The London-
based company said it’s shipping the last of its stock from its
Marietta, Pennsylvania, facility.  300,000 Doses  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s MedImmune unit said it filled all current
orders from customers and has a backup supply at the ready. The
Gaithersburg, Maryland-based unit makes FluMist, a vaccine
administered through nasal inhalation. It sold  $161 million  of
the product in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We currently have more than 300,000 extra doses that
could be shipped,” Tor Constantino, a MedImmune spokesman, said
in a telephone interview. The company hasn’t received requests
for its additional supply, he said.  In addition, MedImmune has 250,000 flu vaccine doses on
hold for the U.S. Defense Department and the children’s health
program within Medicaid, the joint federal-state health plan for
the poor. Those doses could be sold as well if the government
doesn’t need them, Constantino said.  Glaxo’s Perry said his company doesn’t have additional
supplies to distribute and hasn’t been contacted about producing
more.  Vaccine makers produced 135 million doses of the
immunization this year and had distributed 128.1 million as of
Jan. 4, the CDC reported last week. At least 112 million people,
35 percent to 40 percent of those eligible, have gotten a flu
shot this season, Michael Jhung, a CDC medical officer in the
influenza division said last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  