-- Cyprus Polls Show Anastasiades as Most Convincing Candidate
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2013-01-15T10:51:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/cyprus-polls-show-anastasiades-as-most-convincing-candidate.html
Nicos Anastasiades, leader of the
main opposition party DISY, was the most convincing candidate in
the first televised  debate  among the three main contenders in
Cyprus’s presidential elections, two polls showed today.  Anastasiades was the most convincing speaker for 49 percent
of viewers participating in a Mega TV survey. He was followed by
35 percent for independent George Lillikas and 15 percent for
Stavros Malas, who’s backed by the communist Akel party of
Cypriot President Demetris Christofias. The poll was conducted
via the broadcaster’s website during the two-hour debate late
yesterday,  Mega  said, without specifying the number of
respondents.  In a similar poll by  Sigma TV , also conducted via its
website during the discussion, 42.2 percent of its viewers said
Anastasiades was the most convincing compared with 20.6 percent
for Lillikas and 17.5 percent for Malas. Sigma also didn’t say
how many viewers took part in the poll.  Cyprus is in negotiations with European partners and the
 International Monetary Fund  for a bailout that could approach
the size of its roughly 18 billion-euro ($24 billion) economy,
after becoming last June the fifth euro state to seek aid.
Negotiations are “far from the stage at which we can make a
decision,” German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said Jan. 11 during
a trip to Cyprus where she threw her support behind
Anastasiades, who is a fellow member of the European  People’s
Party .  With the first round of the Cyprus presidential elections
scheduled for Feb. 17 and a second round for Feb. 24, in the
event there’s no outright winner in the first ballot, the
country’s next president may be the person who will sign the
bailout agreement.  While viewers in the Sigma poll found Anastasiades the most
convincing candidate, 36 percent said Lillikas, a former foreign
and commerce minister, was the overall winner compared with 34
percent for Malas and 29 percent for Anastasiades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  