-- Cyprus Split With IMF on Banks Delays Aid, Christofias Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-01-15T13:53:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/cypriot-president-christofias-decries-eu-strict-austerity-.html
A planned aid package for Cyprus is
being delayed by the government’s differences with the
International Monetary Fund over Cypriot banks’ capital needs,
President Demetris Christofias said.  “The problem of the banks has completely overturned the
apple cart,” Christofias told reporters today in Strasbourg,
 France . “The IMF believes that our needs are maximum needs. We
believe that they are lower. We are now awaiting clarification
of the situation so that we can confirm finally what the exact
figure is.”  Cyprus has been negotiating with the IMF and the euro area
for seven months over the size and terms of a rescue for the
government and lenders weakened by their exposure to the Greek
economy.  Cypriot financial institutions such as  Bank of Cyprus Plc (BOCY) 
and Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl lost more than 4 billion euros ($5.4
billion) in a Greek debt restructuring that was part of a second
international rescue of Greece last year.  After commissioning Pacific Investment Management Co. to
assess how much banks in Cyprus need, the Cypriot government
hired  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  to assess Pimco’s methodology. An initial
draft of Pimco’s report led Cypriot central bank chief Panicos Demetriades to estimate that the rescue of banks in Cyprus may
cost as much as 10 billion euros, an amount cited today by
Cypriot officials including Christofias. The final figure is
scheduled to be published around the end of this week.  ‘Fair Move’  Christofias urged the euro area to let its permanent rescue
fund, the European Stability Mechanism, lend directly to Cypriot
banks rather than aid them through the national government in
order to limit the financial burden on Cyprus.  “That would be a fair move,” he said. “It has to be done
directly rather than burdening the debt of Cyprus.”  Euro-area finance ministers are working on guidelines to
allow the ESM to lend directly to banks, a step that will be
possible once the European Central Bank takes on a new role of
overseeing lenders. The 17-nation currency bloc’s single
supervisor is scheduled to start on or after March 1, 2014.
Direct recapitalization of lenders via the ESM could take place
earlier if the guidelines are in place and the ECB takes up its
role sooner.  ‘Further Understanding’  Christofias, a communist who isn’t running for another term
in an election scheduled for Feb. 17, said the vote has
complicated aid talks with the euro area and the IMF. He said
Cyprus might have gained “further understanding from abroad”
were no election being held next month. Polls show Nicos Anastasiades, head of the center-right DISY opposition party, is
leading the race.  Christofias said sealing a rescue accord with the European
Commission, the IMF and the ECB -- the so-called troika of
international negotiators -- may fall to his successor.  “If the troika is ready, then we are also ready to sign
the memorandum,” he said. “If they’re not ready and the
discussions continue on the level of requirements, then the new
government will have to deal with it.”  The planned Cypriot aid package will be the fifth in the
euro area following some 486 billion euros in European and IMF
commitments for  Greece , Ireland,  Portugal  and Spain’s banking
system since 2010. Financial rescues are tied to budget-
austerity conditions that Christofias criticized in a speech
earlier today to the Strasbourg-based European Parliament.  “It’s my firm conviction that unilateral policies of
austerity are a guaranteed recipe for failure, only succeeding
in making the rich richer and the poor poorer,” Christofias
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France, at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  