-- Daniel Edelman, Founder of World’s Largest PR Firm, Dies at 92
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-01-16T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/daniel-edelman-founder-of-world-s-largest-pr-firm-dies-at-92.html
Daniel J. Edelman, founder of the
world’s largest independent public-relations firm, with a client
list that includes Microsoft Corp., Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and
General Electric Co., has died. He was 92.  He died yesterday of heart failure, according to a
statement from his company, citing his wife, Ruth Edelman.  The firm that Edelman started in 1952 in  Chicago  now has 66
offices and more than 4,500 employees worldwide, according to
its  website . It is part of closely held Daniel J. Edelman Inc.,
of which he remained chairman.  Edelman “was the acknowledged leader in public relations
for consumer products and gained fame in the USA as the creator
of the media tour -- a PR technique in which a company
spokesperson visited key markets, performed store openings, did
radio and newspaper interviews and, most important of all,
participated in a talk show on local television,”  according to 
“The Global Public Relations Handbook: Theory, Research and
Practice” (2009), edited by Krishnamurthy Sriramesh and Dejan
Vercic.  Edelman’s choice of Vincent Price as spokesman for the
California wine industry in 1966 was one of the first
deployments of a celebrity in a PR campaign, according to the
firm.  Firm’s Milestones  Other milestones the firm cites include repositioning
Kentucky Fried Chicken as KFC in 1975, establishing the first
free consumer help-line with the Butterball Turkey Talk-line to
help holiday-season cooks in 1981, managing the release of the
Iraq Study Group Report in 2006 and helping Starbucks run its
40th anniversary campaign in 2011.  Edelman retired as chief executive officer in 1996, handing
the reins to his son, Richard Edelman.  Daniel Joseph Edelman was born on July 3, 1920, in New York
City. He graduated from Columbia University in 1940 and earned a
master’s degree in journalism a year later from its Graduate
School of Journalism.  He worked as a reporter in Poughkeepsie, New York, before
serving in World War II in a psychological warfare unit --
“doing a lot of writing and nightly analysis of German
propaganda,” he recalled in an  interview  with the Arthur W.
Page Center for Integrity in Public Communication, part of Penn
State University.  Before founding his firm on Oct. 1, 1952, in an office in
Chicago’s Merchandise Mart, Edelman wrote news for CBS and
handled public relations for a hair-care company that later was
acquired by Gillette Co.  In addition to his son Richard, Edelman’s survivors include
his wife of 59 years, the former Ruth Ann Rozumoff, a member of
the firm’s board of directors; a daughter, Renee, a senior vice
president; a son, John, managing director of the firm’s global
engagement and corporate social responsibility initiative; and
three granddaughters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  