-- Obama Against Using Debt Limit to Force Spending Cut: Q&A
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-01-15T14:58:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/debt-limit-countdown-pits-obama-against-republicans.html
With as little as a month until the
U.S. runs out of money to pay its bills, President  Barack Obama 
warned Republicans in Congress not to use the need for a debt-
limit increase to force through new spending cuts.  Obama insisted yesterday he won’t negotiate on raising the
debt ceiling because the U.S. has no choice other than to pay
for spending it has authorized. Many Republicans in Congress say
a boost in borrowing authority must be linked to spending cuts.  The Treasury Department has been using emergency measures
since the end of December to prevent a breach of the $16.4
trillion debt limit. In a letter yesterday to House Speaker  John Boehner , Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said the department
expects to exhaust those measures “between mid-February and
early March.”  Treasuries gained for a third day as speculation that the
dispute between Obama and Congress will slow the world’s largest
economy boosted demand for the safest assets. The  10-year yield 
declined three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.81
percent at 8:50 a.m.  New York  time, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. Bond prices move inversely to yields.  Here are questions and answers about the history of the
debt limit and the potential consequences of not raising it:  What is the debt ceiling?  As the U.S. government spends more than it receives in
taxes and other revenue, the debt limit is the total dollar
amount the U.S. is allowed to borrow to pay its bills. Such
borrowing can be used only to pay for spending authorized by
Congress.  While other countries have debt limits, some set it as a
ratio of the economy -- such as 60 percent of gross domestic
product -- instead of a specific amount of currency.  How was the limit created?  Congress and President  Woodrow Wilson , a Democrat, created
the statutory limit in 1917 to help finance the U.S. entry into
World War I. The measure allowed the Treasury to issue long-term
securities with lower interest than previous short-term debt.  Does Congress need to raise the debt ceiling often?  The limit was periodically raised since its creation in
1917. Congress increased the debt ceiling to reflect the cost of
World War II, and lowered the level after the war ended. Since
1960, Congress has raised or revised the limit 79 times,
including 49 times under Republican presidents, according to the
Treasury Department.  What happened in previous disputes over raising the limit?  In 2002, Deputy Treasury Secretary Kenneth Dam sent a
letter to Congress seeking an increase in the debt ceiling. The
Senate passed legislation to raise the limit the following May
23, after receiving a Treasury Department warning of imminent
default.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the U.S. credit rating in August
2011 after the most recent showdown over the threshold. Obama
signed a debt-limit increase plan on Aug. 2, the day Treasury
warned the nation’s borrowing authority would expire. That set
up the so-called fiscal cliff of tax increases and spending cuts
that Congress averted at the start of this year.  What actions can Treasury take to put off a default?  The Treasury uses emergency measures to delay a default as
the total value of debt nears $16.4 trillion. On Dec. 28, it
stopped issuing the State and Local Government Series
securities, which help states and municipalities refinance their
higher-cost debt.  On Dec. 31, Geithner announced a suspension of investments
in the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund and the
Postal Service Retiree Health Benefits Fund. The U.S. can use
other measures although when they run out, the Treasury won’t be
able to meet all of its obligations.  How would a default affect government obligations?  The government makes about 80 million payments each month,
including for  Social Security , veterans’ benefits, defense
contractors,  law enforcement  and income tax refunds, said
Geithner’s letter to Boehner. Exhausting the emergency measures
without raising the debt limit would require Treasury to fund
the government with cash on hand, which wouldn’t be adequate
“for any meaningful length of time,” Geithner said.  “The nation’s creditworthiness is not a bargaining chip or
a hostage that can be taken to advance any political agenda,”
Geithner’s letter said.  During the 2011 deadlock, the Treasury considered asset
sales, across-the-board payment reductions, and prioritizing
some of its monthly payments, according to an Aug. 24, 2012,
report by the Treasury inspector general.  How do Republicans respond to the statements by Obama and
Geithner?  Boehner, an  Ohio Republican , issued a statement yesterday
that said, “The American people do not support raising the debt
ceiling without reducing  government spending  at the same time.”
He has repeatedly said any debt-limit increase must be matched
by an equal amount of spending reductions.  How does the Constitution’s 14th Amendment figure into this
debate?  Some Democrats in Congress have urged the president to act
on his own authority, saying the amendment gives the executive
branch the duty to honor U.S. obligations regardless of a
statutory debt ceiling. The post-Civil War amendment says, “The
validity of the public debt of the  United States ” including the
cost of suppressing rebellion “shall not be questioned.” Obama
has said the administration doesn’t think the president has
authority to act unilaterally.  When President Obama served in the  U.S. Senate , how did he vote
on raising the debt ceiling?  As a senator, Obama voted against a 2006 debt-limit
increase, a decision he regrets, White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  