-- Dell’s Cash Holdings Pave Way for Buyout Talks: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2013-01-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/dell-s-cash-holdings-pave-way-for-buyout-talks-chart-of-the-day.html
Dell Inc. (DELL) ’s market value has
increasingly become linked to its holdings of cash and money-
market securities, which would explain why the personal-computer
maker is considering a leveraged buyout.  As the CHART OF THE DAY shows, the investments have been
equivalent to more than 50 percent of Dell’s value for the past
eight months. The proportion peaked at 74 percent in October, a
month before the stock dropped to its lowest price since March
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The percentage climbed even as Dell’s cash and short-term
investments, maturing in a year or less, dropped in four of the
last five fiscal quarters. The  Round Rock , Texas-based company
held $11.3 billion as of Nov. 2, when the third quarter ended.  Dell’s net cash balance provides the opportunity for a
buyout “under the right conditions,” Bill Shope, an analyst at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., wrote in a report last month. The
balance, which reflects longer-term investments along with debt
outstanding, ended the third quarter at $5.15 billion.  Dell is in buyout talks with private-equity firms, two
people with knowledge of the matter said. They asked not to be
named because the discussions are private. One of them said at
least two firms were participating.  The chart tracks cash and securities as a percentage of
market value since 2000, when Dell’s share price climbed to a
record. At that time, the investments were about 4 percent of
the company’s capitalization. The figure has surged since then
because the dollar amount held more than doubled and the stock
tumbled as much as 87 percent from its peak.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in  New York  at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  