-- Dell LBO to Test Market’s Appetite for Return to Boom Era
-- B y   D a v i d   C a r e y   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-01-15T23:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/dell-lbo-to-test-market-s-appetite-for-return-to-boom-era.html
A leveraged buyout of  Dell Inc. (DELL) 
would require Michael Dell and private-equity firms to
accomplish a feat not seen since 2007: pulling together more
than $20 billion in equity and debt to finance the deal.  Dell, the personal-computer maker that lost almost a third
of its value last year, has been in talks with buyout firms
including  Silver Lake  Management LLC about going private, a
person familiar with the matter said yesterday. The  Round Rock ,
Texas-based company has climbed 21 percent since Bloomberg
reported the discussions yesterday.  Michael Dell and his backers would have to persuade lenders
to raise the biggest debt package for an LBO since the peak of
the 2005-2007 buyout boom, when banks were more than eager to
finance mega-sized deals and collect the large fees that
accompanied them. While debt markets have loosened up since 2010
as  interest rates  have fallen, the biggest LBO since the onset
of the financial crisis was the $7.2 billion KKR & Co. paid for
Samson Investment Co., the Tulsa, Oklahoma-based oil and gas
producer, in 2011.  “The general consensus is that $6 billion is the upper
limit of a buyout transaction in this environment,” said David Fann, chief executive officer of TorreyCove Capital Partners
LLC, a  La Jolla , California-based firm that advises private-
equity managers and investors. “This will require a major
investment-banking initiative.”  A deal could be announced as soon as this week, said one
person, who asked not to be identified because the talks are
private. Discussions could collapse if firms fail to arrange
financing or find a way to exit the investment.  Dell’s Value  The company founded by  Michael Dell  in 1984 has an
 enterprise value  of $20.7 billion, which is stock-market
capitalization plus debt, minus cash. Assuming Dell’s stock
fetches 30 percent more than its closing price on Jan. 11 --
about the average premium on technology LBOs in the past three
years -- the enterprise value of the company would climb to $22
billion. The last buyout to exceed that amount was Blackstone
Group LP’s acquisition of Hilton Worldwide Inc., announced in
July 2007 and valued at $26.2 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The bursting of the credit bubble in mid-2007, brought on
when subprime-mortgage borrowers began defaulting in record
numbers, choked off the flow of debt as banks were stuck with
loans they couldn’t sell to investors and pulled back.  Bonds Drop  Dell bonds tumbled and credit default swaps surged after
 Bloomberg News  reported the talks yesterday, amid concerns the
deal would add to the company’s $5.9 billion of  outstanding
bonds , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dell’s $400 million of 4.625 percent bonds due April 2021
plunged today to the least in 15 months. Yields surged 63 basis
points, or 0.63 percentage point, to 4.936 percent, the highest
level since the debt was issued in March 2011, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. Dell’s $600 million of 5.875 percent notes
due June 2019 dropped to the lowest level in more than two years
with yields surging 114 basis points to 4.752 percent, the
highest since March 2010, according to Trace.  The cost of insuring Dell’s debt from default for five
years surged to the highest level on record, according to data
provider CMA. Credit-default swap contracts on Dell jumped 69
basis points today to 355 basis points, according to CMA, which
is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Junk Sales  Sales of  junk bonds  worldwide soared 35 percent to a record
$426 billion in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Yields on speculative-grade, or junk, bonds fell to a record low
of 6.3386 percent yesterday, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Global High-Yield Index, which was started in
December 1997 and contained 3,098 securities.  High-yield bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and lower than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  Still, even with low interest rates and high demand for
junk bonds, financing a Dell buyout may pose a challenge, and
not solely because of its size.  Michael Dell  owns  16 percent of the company, a stake worth
$3.3 billion, so the buyers would have to raise about $18.7
billion in additional debt and equity. Based on recent averages
for deals, Dell’s buyout partners would have to kick in equity
of about 30 percent, or $5.6 billion. That may require Silver
Lake to bring in additional investors.  Silver Lake  Silver Lake, based in  Menlo Park ,  California , is seeking
$7.5 billion for its latest flagship fund, Silver Lake Partners
IV LP, with the option of gathering as much as $10 billion,
according to a marketing document viewed by Bloomberg News.  After the equity, there would be about $13.1 billion to be
financed. The financing also will turn on how much of Dell’s $11
billion in  cash  can be tapped for the deal. “Substantially all
of that amount” is held overseas, Dell said in a regulatory
filing.  That creates a tax liability for anyone trying to
repatriate it. Assuming half of the $11 billion can be used,
that would leave about $7.5 billion in debt to make up the rest.  Today, most buyouts with solid market positions and stable
or growing cash flows draw debt financing of four or more times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.
Dell’s market share has slipped and its Ebitda fell in 2012,
meaning it may not be able to borrow at the same level as
healthier companies.  Cash Flow  “It’s generating free cash flow but that free cash flow is
declining because of competition,” said  Sachin Shah , a former
special-situations and merger-arbitrage strategist at Tullett
Prebon Plc in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey . “Because of the  iPad ,
nobody wants to buy PCs and nobody wants to buy laptops.”  Dell’s Ebitda is estimated to be $4.9 billion for the
fiscal year ending Jan. 31, compared with $5.4 billion the
previous year,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  Yet banks might provide just $6 billion to $7 billion of
financing, or 1.4 times to 1.6 times Dell’s trailing 12-month
Ebitda, according to a New York-based technology analyst who
asked not to be identified because he isn’t permitted to speak
to the media.  The added debt load would heavily weigh on Dell’s ability
to grow.  Billionaire Dell  Michael Dell has a net worth of $13.7 billion and ranks 65
on the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . MSD Capital LP, his
investment-management firm, oversees about $9 billion, according
to Bloomberg estimates. Dell could use part of that wealth to
help finance the transaction.  Dell shares have  lagged behind  the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index by 54 percentage points since the market bottomed in March
2009.  “It makes a lot of sense,” said  Brian White , an analyst
at New York-based Topeka Capital Markets Inc. “The valuation on
this stock is absolutely insulted. Michael Dell wants to change
the focus of Dell without having the microscope of a public
stock.”  Computer companies, unlike food producers or government
contractors, are less-than-ideal LBO candidates as rapid changes
in technology and consumer adoption can make their earnings
unpredictable.  Tech Deals  Other technology companies, including disk-drive maker
 Seagate Technology Plc (STX) , have attempted to go private and had the
talks dissolve over valuations or difficulty in financing deals.
 Fidelity National Information Services Inc. (FIS) ’s buyout talks
fizzled in 2010 after the company sought a higher price than
private-equity firms offered.  “Dell certainly can survive in its current form because
they’re doing a good job on the enterprise side and the balance
sheet is strong,” White said. “But to get the valuation he
wants, Dell needs to exit the PC business.”  A Dell buyout could rival KKR’s $27.5 billion LBO of
electronic-commerce company First Data Corp. in 2007. It could
also be the largest acquisition in the computer industry since
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  bought Compaq Computer Corp. for about $19
billion in 2002, Bloomberg data show.  “Most big buyout firms are on record telling limited
partners that they aren’t pursuing mega deals anymore,” said
TorreyCove’s Fann, referring to investors in private-equity
funds. “Never say never.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Carey in  New York  at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  