-- Det Norske Says Sverdrup Estimates to be Raised After Appraisal
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-01-15T16:27:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/det-norske-says-sverdrup-estimates-to-be-raised-after-appraisal.html
Det Norske Oljeselskap ASA (DETNOR)  said
volume estimates for the Johan Sverdrup find, which may be
Norway’s biggest in almost 40 years, would rise after successful
appraisal wells.  Det Norske and  Statoil ASA (STL)  said Jan. 3 the latest appraisal
well had confirmed “good reservoir properties” at the  North
Sea  field. Companies operating the two licenses that contain
Sverdrup have estimated reserves to be between 1.7 billion and
3.3 billion barrels of oil.  “We have indicated that the lowest estimate we had was
based on there being a relatively bad sand quality at the
locations where there has since been proven a good sand
quality,” Det Norske’s Chief Executive Officer Erik Haugane
said in an interview in Sandefjord,  Norway . “That implies” the
lower end of the estimate range is bound to be raised when new
figures are published in the fourth quarter, he said.  The Sverdrup find, which may be the biggest since Statfjord
was discovered in 1974, has helped rekindle interest in Norway’s
energy industry after the nation’s oil output fell by half in a
decade as deposits aged. Det Norske shares have risen almost 250
percent since the discovery of the western part of the field was
announced in August 2011.  The  Norwegian Petroleum Directorate  last week raised its
lower estimate of Sverdrup’s volumes to 1.3 billion barrels of
oil from 880 million barrels. The NPD’s high-end estimate is 2.5
billion barrels of oil.  ‘Very Positive’  Lundin Petroleum AB (LUPE) , which operates the PL 501 license
containing the eastern part of the field, may publish new
estimates for its part of the field at its capital markets day
next month, its head of operations in Norway, Torstein Sanness,
said.  “What the NPD said and the optimism it showed was very
positive,” he said in an interview. “We’re positive like
everyone else.”  Of 51 licenses offered to 40 companies in mature areas
offshore Norway this year, 35 are in the North Sea, the
Norwegian Petroleum Ministry announced today.  Det Norske, which received eight licenses, all in the North
Sea, is satisfied with the permits it received, Haugane said.
Lundin was offered seven licenses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  