-- Deutsche Bank’s Global Metals Head Key Said to Plan Exit
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-01-15T17:31:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/deutsche-bank-s-global-metals-head-key-said-to-plan-departure.html
Ray Key, the global head of metals
trading at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , is leaving the bank, according to
two people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Key worked in  London  and is relocating to New Zealand
fulltime, according to the people, who asked not to be
identified because the information isn’t public.  He joined Deutsche Bank in 2007 from Morgan Stanley, where
he was global head of precious metals. Key also worked at Credit
Suisse Group AG as a director and global head of precious-metals
options and forward trading. Key said he couldn’t comment in
response to an e-mail from Bloomberg.  Deutsche Bank was dismissing power and gas traders in the
U.S. as part of the 1,900 job cuts announced by Chief Executive
Officer Anshu Jain in July, a person briefed on the matter said
last month. Commodities chief David Silbert was preparing to
leave, the person then said.  Deutsche Bank is a Category 2  member  of the London Metal
Exchange, which gives it the right to trade electronically and
by telephone on the world’s biggest metals marketplace. Key
started his career at Bankers Trust in 1995 and took on metals
when Deutsche Bank bought Bankers Trust in 1999.  At Deutsche Bank, Key helped develop iron ore swaps in
2008, together with Credit Suisse Group AG.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
the world’s largest mining company, wanted to end annual supply
contracts of the commodity used to make steel.  Total volume of cleared over-the-counter iron ore swaps and
options more than doubled last year to 127 million tons,
according to The Steel Index, which publishes prices of the
commodity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  