-- Dish Freed From U.S. Rules on Cable Set-Top Boxes
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-01-15T22:03:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/dish-freed-from-u-s-rules-on-cable-set-top-boxes.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  won a federal
appeals court ruling that frees pay-television providers from
U.S. regulations blocking the use of some techniques to prevent
illicit copying of programs.  A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Washington today said that the Federal Communications Commission
lacked authority to apply the rules to satellite companies,
saying Congress didn’t give the agency explicit direction
regarding satellite systems. The court threw out the rules from
2003.  The rules prevented pay-TV companies from remotely shutting
off particular outputs in a subscriber’s home equipment such as
a set-top box. Cable companies argued that the ban should apply
to all pay-TV companies to preserve a level playing field in
negotiations for access to premium content, the FCC said in its
2003 order.  The FCC based its rules on a 2002 agreement between the
National Cable & Telecommunications Association, which
represents companies including largest U.S. cable operator,
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , and No. 2  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , and a consumer-
electronics group, whose members include TV makers such as Sony
Corp. and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) ’s Zenith Electronics Corp.  FCC Negotiations  Satellite providers complained to the FCC that that they
were excluded from those negotiations.  The FCC is reviewing the court’s order, Justin Cole, an FCC
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Brian Dietz, a spokesman for the National Cable &
Telecommunications Association, declined to comment on the
ruling. The Washington-based trade group intervened in the case
backing the FCC.  Bob Toevs, a spokesman for Englewood, Colorado-based Dish,
didn’t immediately respond to a phone message seeking comment on
the decision.  The case is Echostar Satellite LLC v. Federal
Communications Commission, 04-1033,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for
the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  