-- Disney Sees Profit From Jack Sparrow Playing With Buzz
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-01-15T22:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/disney-sees-profit-from-jack-sparrow-playing-with-buzz.html
(Corrects software sales decline in 10th paragraph of
story published on Jan. 15.)  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , working to improve
results at its interactive division, unveiled a video-game
system that reduces development costs by incorporating
characters from multiple movies in the same game.  The Infinity platform includes a base unit that connects to
computers and game consoles, Burbank, California-based Disney
said today in a statement. Plastic figures set on top of the
unit appear on screen in games. The company will sell the
figures, as well as discs that add scenery and features. A
starter kit with the base and three figures is priced at $75.  With Infinity, Disney will be able to add content without
developing new games from scratch each time a film comes out,
according to John Pleasants, co-president of Disney interactive.
That’s critical for a division Disney Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Robert Iger has said will be profitable in
2013 after losses of $1.6 billion in the past six years.  “It’s something we expect to be able to live on for years,
and we can continuously add to it,” Pleasants said in an
interview. “It’s not just a game that we’re shipping.”  Pleasants, who joined Disney with the acquisition of
social-game maker Playdom in 2010, urged his designers to
“think big” in developing the system, according to John Blackburn, vice president of Disney’s Avalanche Software unit in
Salt Lake City, Utah, which oversaw the project.  Player Freedom  Infinity is Disney’s largest game project in terms of the
cost and characters involved, Blackburn said, without giving
specifics on the finances. The initial release will involve 20
Disney and Pixar characters.  Adventures within Infinity leave a lot to the player, the
executives said. Captain Jack Sparrow, from the “Pirates of the
Caribbean” films, could go on missions with Buzz Lightyear, one
of the “Toy Story” characters, while riding in Cinderella’s
coach.  “It’s like your parent’s living room floor, where nobody
told you what to do with your toys,” John Vignocchi, an
executive producer of the game, said in an interview.  By combining collectible figures with video-game play, the
Infinity platform, which goes on sale in June, is similar to
 Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) ’s “Skylanders” games, which generated
$500 million in sales of games and related merchandise last
year.  Pirates Games  Disney is changing direction as sales of traditional video
games have fallen. Video-game software sales declined 23 percent
to $6.71 billion in 2012, NPD said. Disney released six titles
for consoles last year, down from 23 in 2010, according to the
company and VGChartz.com, a research site.  Its products have sometimes disappointed consumers. A group
called  Revive Potco  gathered 2,000 signatures asking Disney to
invest more in its Pirates of the Caribbean game.  Brad Phillips, who follows the business on a blog called In
the Life of Nerd, was critical of that game and another called
“World of Cars,” tied to the popular Pixar films.  “It was a terrible waste of the Cars brand and one that
was likely designed and rushed out in an attempt to profit from
the movies,” Phillips  wrote  last February, the  same month 
Disney shut it down.  John Lasseter, chief creative officer for Disney animation
studios, also thought some movie-themed games lacked substance,
according to Blackburn. He was reluctant to include Pixar
content in Infinity until the game makers showed him designs
where the disparate characters shared a common look.  Game Challenges  Disney  gained  1 percent to $51.09 at the close in New York.
The shares advanced 33 percent in 2012, compared with 13 percent
for the S&P 500 Index.  Larry Gerbrandt, a long-time media analyst now with Media
Valuation Partners in Los Angeles, said he is skeptical the
interactive unit can ever produce the consistent earnings of
Disney’s cable TV and theme-park businesses. He pointed to
challenges facing  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the social game leader, which has
fallen 74 percent since it first sold shares in December 2011.  “It’s a very streaky business,” Gerbrandt said. “All you
have to do is look at Zynga to see how hard it is to create hits
and come up with sequels. If they could be happy with the Disney
website, they’d be fine. It’s when they move beyond that they
run into problems.”  Pleasants, co-president of the unit, disagrees.  “Profitability is a goal for this division for sure, for
this year, for the future, for beyond,” he said. “We are very,
very focused on that. We are growing nicely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  