-- Donors Claim $1.1 Billion Skirting Tax Laws, Audit Says
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-01-15T20:05:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/donors-claim-1-1-billion-skirting-tax-laws-audit-says.html
U.S. taxpayers routinely violate
rules requiring them to prove the value of noncash contributions
to charities, costing the government $1.1 billion in 2010,
according to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax
Administration.  Under U.S. tax law, noncash donations exceeding $500 must
be accompanied by a tax form detailing the contribution and the
recipient. The most valuable donations -- of art, historic
building easements and items worth more than $500,000 -- require
taxpayers to submit an appraisal.  The inspector general’s study of 507 tax returns found that
about 60 percent didn’t comply with the rules. They didn’t file
the correct forms or provide clear descriptions of what was
donated.  Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican, issued a
statement complaining about “poor work” by the IRS.  “Instead of rushing to raise taxes, the administration
should do more to collect the taxes already owed,” said
Grassley, a former chairman of the Senate Finance Committee.  “The president has insisted on raising taxes on upper-
income taxpayers, yet the report shows the administration is
giving a free pass to those claiming high-value deductions for
donations of vehicles, art, or securities,” Grassley said.  Requesting Documentation  In its response to the report, the  Internal Revenue Service 
said it will request documentation from more taxpayers and
revise the form.  Michelle Eldridge, a spokeswoman for the IRS, said in a
statement the agency will “make improvements” on the issue.
Still, she said the IRS disagrees with the report’s estimate of
potential lost revenue.  “The figure they cite is potentially misleading as an
unsubstantiated expense does not automatically equate to an
unallowable expense, and subsequent enforcement actions were not
taken into account,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  