-- Draghi Boosts 30-Year German Index-Linked Debt Hope
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-01-15T15:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/draghi-boosts-30-year-german-index-linked-debt-hope.html
The prospect of an economic rebound
midwifed by Mario Draghi’s successful calming of the European
bond market may finally prompt  Germany  to sell 30-year
inflation-linked government debt.  Draghi’s European Central Bank forecasts the euro region
will rally from recession in 2013, while European Union leaders
say the worst of the debt crisis is over. The prospect of those
forces stoking inflation is sharpening investor appetite for a
top-rated, long-dated security after France’s rating downgrade
left the region without a AAA index-linked security with more
than 10 years to maturity.  “We are likely to be a buyer of German 30-year index-
linked debt if they offer,” said Robin Marshall, a fixed-income
director at Smith & Williamson Investment Management in London,
which oversees the equivalent of $19 billion. “Inflation may
not be a threat in the euro zone now, but I would like to be
able to express a longer-term view on that without having to
take a credit risk. At the moment, it’s not easy to do that.”  Germany came late to the inflation market, selling its
first bonds linked to consumer prices in March 2006. The U.K.
issued inflation-protected securities in 1981, with France
tapping the market in 1998 and  Italy  debuting in 2004. The debt
is designed to keep its value when consumer prices rise.  Promises, Promises  Gerhard Schleif, the former head of Germany’s Federal
Finance Agency, said in 2007 that 30-year linkers might appear
that year. Carl Heinz Daube, who took over in 2008, reiterated
the government’s intention to sell the securities. Daube stepped
down today. He is being replaced by Tammo Diemer, with investors
still awaiting the first sale.  “We will continue to monitor the market situation,” Joerg Mueller, a spokesman for the debt agency, wrote in an e-mailed
response to questions last week. “Our entry into this market
segment in 2006 was linked to the longer-term expectation of a
reduction in interest-rate costs. It was also aimed at
broadening the investor base, increasing financial flexibility
and extending the spectrum of securities offered to investors.”  Long-term inflation expectations have risen in G-10
countries on speculation the global economy will grow at faster
pace than last year. Global output will expand 2.4 percent this
year and 3.17 percent in 2014, according to a median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Breakeven Rates  France ’s 15-year breakeven rate, a gauge of the consumer-
price outlook derived from the yield gap between regular and
index-linked bonds, is at 2.24 percentage points today, compared
with 1.99 percentage points a year earlier. The 30-year U.S.
rate increased to 2.55 percentage points from 2.16 during the
same period, while the U.K. 30-year gap widened to 3.26
percentage points today from 3.20.  “To be fair to Germany, a number of things had happened
soon after it first sold index-linked bonds that made it rather
difficult to issue 30-year linkers,” said Markus Heider, the
head of inflation research at Deutsche Bank AG in London. “We
had the financial crisis followed by the euro debt crisis.
People were more worried about recession than inflation. You can
make an argument that the market conditions and valuations have
improved. It’s a better time to issue such bonds.”  Germany’s longest-maturity inflation debt is repayable in
April 2023. While the country has one of the world’s most traded
bond markets, it has 55 billion euros ($73.5 billion) of index-
linked securities, compared with 173 billion euros in France and
290 billion pounds ($465 billion) in the U.K.  Italian Downgrade  Italy had its inflation securities removed from Barclays
Plc’s indexes in July after Moody’s Investors Service cut its
credit rating, making investors using those indexes to track
performance less likely to buy its bonds.  “If Germany wants to be a benchmark issuer in the index-
linked bond market, it will need to issue 30-year securities,”
said Kari Hallgrimsson, the head of European inflation trading
at JPMorgan Chase & Co in  London . “We have heard of strong
interest for long-dated German linkers from pension funds in
Scandinavia, the Netherlands and Germany. The market will take
it very positively.”  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said Jan. 11
that the euro region is over the worst of the crisis. Draghi
cited “positive contagion” in European markets after the
central bank left its benchmark rate at 0.75 percent on Jan. 10,
telling reporters that “a gradual recovery should start” in
late 2013.  Relative Costs  While data today showed growth in Germany slowed to 0.7
percent last year from 3 percent in 2011, there were positive
signs for the economy. The country’s business confidence rose
for a second month in December, unemployment held close to a
two-decade low, and industrial production and retail sales
increased in November. Financial markets also recovered at the
end of last year, with the benchmark  DAX index  gaining 11.5
percent since mid-November.  The yield on 15-year French index-linked bonds has fallen to
about 0.50 percent from 1.39 percent at the end of June,
underlining demand for long-dated inflation securities. German
securities due in April 2023 yielded minus 0.20 percent,
compared with 0.01 percent in mid-2012.  The German debt agency may have to prove to the government
that adding a new line of debt is cheaper than selling regular
securities, said Paul Mueller, a money manager at Invesco Asset
Management in London. It also may be concerned about potential
changes in the pension fund industry reducing demand.  “Pension regulations may present a risk, but at the end of
the day, the size of the euro-region’s index-linked market is
relatively small,” Mueller said. “Investors still need long-
dated inflation protection and they don’t have many sources to
go to in the euro region. German 30-year inflation bonds will
have a great appeal to investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert in London at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  