-- Dubai’s Emaar Said to Consider Spinning Off Malls Unit
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-01-16T09:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/dubai-s-emaar-said-to-weigh-mall-unit-spinoff-to-boost-returns.html
Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the developer
that makes up almost a quarter of Dubai’s benchmark stock index,
is considering spinning off its malls unit and Turkish business
as it looks for ways to boost shareholder returns, according to
two people briefed on the company’s internal discussions.  The builder of the Dubai Mall, the world’s largest by area,
would list its shopping-center business on the emirate’s
exchange when market conditions are favorable, the people said,
asking not to be identified because the talks are private. The
Turkish unit probably would be listed in Istanbul, they said.  Emaar has increasingly relied on revenue from malls and
hotels after the collapse of Dubai’s property market in 2008
caused demand for homes and offices to evaporate.  The developer 
will build more than 1,000 homes in Istanbul and also has
operations in at least 12 countries including  China ,  India ,
 Indonesia  and Egypt.  Emaar has no immediate plans to list the units, according
to a spokesperson who asked not to be named, citing company
policy. Chief Financial Officer Amit Jain declined to comment
when reached on his mobile phone.  “The retail business is very stable for Emaar, while the
property sales business is lumpy by nature,” Shuaa Capital
analyst Asjad Yahya said by telephone. “As a result, the retail
and hospitality businesses are effectively being priced at lower
multiples than their peers,” said Yahya, who has a buy rating
on the stock.  ‘Significant Value’  If these businesses are listed separately, investors would
be able to value them in comparison with similar businesses,
Yahya said. “That can potentially bring significant value,” he
said.  Emaar’s shares , which make up 22.3 percent of the  Dubai
Financial Market General Index (DFMGI) , climbed 1.5 percent to 4.13
dirhams and were trading at 4.09 dirhams as of 12:47 p.m. in
Dubai. The shares have gained 69 percent in the last 12 months,
raising the company’s market value to 24.8 billion dirhams
($6.75 billion). The stock was valued at almost 15 dirhams at
the end of 2007. Dubai’s government is the largest shareholder
in the company with a 31 percent stake, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Spinning off the malls “could improve visibility on
Emaar’s operations and shield its attractive investment
properties portfolio from risks inherent in the international
development business,” said Jan Pawel Hasman, a Cairo-based
analyst at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE. “Nonetheless, the extent of
benefits for shareholders will also depend on the final
valuation of such a spinoff.”  Turkish Project  In December, Emaar obtained a $500 million loan from a
group of banks to develop its second Turkish project, which
includes a hotel and one of the city’s largest malls. The
company’s first development, Tuscan Valley, includes 540 homes,
according to the company’s website.  “Listing companies such as Emaar’s unit in  Turkey  on local
stock exchanges is a good strategy as it would make it easier
for those units to tap funding locally in both equity and debt
markets,” Shuaa’s Yahya said. Emaar typically raises funding in
the same markets where the projects are planned, he said.  The company has 13.5 billion dirhams of  debt , with 2.57
billion dirhams of it coming due in 2014, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Retail Assets  In addition to Dubai Mall, Emaar’s retail assets include
Dubai Marina Mall, Gold & Diamond Park, Souk Al Bahar as well as
several retail outlets in its housing developments such as the
Marina Walk, Arabian Ranches, The Greens, Emirates Hills and
Downtown Dubai. The company is also building  Egypt ’s largest
mall in Cairo, according to its website. Malls and hotels
contributed as much as 51 percent of the company’s income in the
three quarters through September.  The Address, Emaar’s hotel  management company , operates
five hotels owned by the Dubai-based parent company in the city.
Hotel occupancy rates in the Dubai averaged 75 percent in 2012,
among the highest in the world, after conflicts elsewhere in the
Middle East and North Africa drove more Gulf tourists to the
emirate, according to STR Global.  Dubai’s economy is headed for its biggest expansion in five
years, driven by a 16 percent gain in the hotel and restaurant
industries. Gross domestic product increased by 4.1 percent in
the first half of 2012, putting the emirate on track to reach
the government’s forecast of 5 percent for the year, the Dubai
Statistics Center said in November.  Delays Reported  Emaar has delayed the opening of hotels in France and
Indonesia, Hotelier Middle East reported in February, citing an
unidentified Emaar spokesperson. The Address Retreat Marassi
Golf & Spa, The Address Uptown Cairo and The Address Jnan Amar
Polo Retreat in Marrakech are among projects Emaar delayed, the
magazine said.  The United Arab Emirates’ biggest developer, which also has
a partnership with Italian fashion designer Giorgio Armani,
opened an Armani-branded hotel in Dubai and another in Milan. In
2005, Emaar secured the right to build at least 10 Armani hotels
and resorts in cities including Paris, New York,  Tokyo  and
 Shanghai .  The company in 2008 abandoned a plan to spin off its  Emaar
MGF Land Ltd. (EMGF)  unit in India, the builder of the Commonwealth
Games Village in the country, after cutting the offer price as
global equity markets slumped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 