-- East European Bankers Warn Bad Debt Thwarts Credit Recovery
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2013-01-16T11:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/east-europe-s-banks-to-outperform-western-peers-unicredit-says.html
Bad debt in eastern Europe, already
exceeding a third of all lending in several countries, will stay
at high levels and cast a pall over hopes of restoring credit
growth, according to the region’s leading bankers.  Ukraine and  Kazakhstan  have the highest rates of loan
delinquency at 33 percent and 35 percent respectively, according
to data presented yesterday by  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , the biggest
western lender in the region by assets. In  Hungary , 20 percent
of banks’ loan books are non-performing, while in  Romania  the
figure is 26 percent. In  Poland , which comes from a lower level,
they have started to rise, UniCredit said.  Regulators and international lenders that have propped up
countries in the region with emergency loans since 2008 are
calling on banks and national watchdogs to resolve the bad debt
issue by encouraging banks to write them off and move on. They
cite past banking crises as evidence this is needed to kick-
start lending and economic growth.  “There is a significant drag on credit growth in the form
of high non-performing loans,”  Piroska Nagy , director of
country strategy and policy at the  European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development , said in an interview while
attending a Euromoney conference in Vienna. “If it’s small,
it’s a natural part of banking business. If it becomes a big
part, it takes over the natural part of the banking business.”  Contagion Shield  Policy makers are trying to shield growth in eastern Europe
against contagion from the euro area’s debt crisis. The economic
malaise in western Europe has stifled exports from the former
communist part of Europe, while new capital and liquidity
requirements for western lenders controlling three-quarters of
its banking system have curbed credit needed to fund the
region’s companies and households.  Western banks that dominate eastern  Europe  will continue to
shed assets to improve their balance sheets in the next two
years, thus preventing a recovery in lending, Hungarian central
bank Vice-President Ferenc Karvalits, said yesterday in Vienna.  “In lending activities, both on the corporate and retail
side, credit conditions continue to be tightened,” Karvalits
said. “Loan activities will recover only if the portfolios are
sufficiently healthy. With such large non-performing portions,
the recovery won’t be easy.”  UniCredit and its Austrian peer  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI)  both warned that bad debt wouldn’t drop
materially any time soon.  Slower Growth  “Slower, but continued growth of NPLs and NPL ratios, also
driven by lower lending growth, seems to be the most likely
development,” Raiffeisen Chief Executive Officer Herbert Stepic
told journalists yesterday. UniCredit’s Aurelio Maccario, head
of central and eastern European strategic analysis, said bad-
debt growth would slow.  Non-performing loans in central and eastern Europe are
about 10 percent and their growth pace is moderating in the
 Czech Republic  and Russia, Stepic said today in an interview in
Vienna. “I hope we will see an easing of the non-performing
loan development” this year and an improvement in 2014, he
said.  While the ratio of delinquent loans is higher in eastern
Europe than in western Europe, it also comes with greater
potential for profit, which makes up for the increased risk,
Stepic said.  ‘Positive Effects’  “The positive effects of the earning possibilities are
overcompensating the negative effects of the non-performing
loans,” Stepic said. “Otherwise it would not have been
possible that central and EEU-managed banks before Lehman and
after Lehman offer a much higher return on capital than those
banks that are operating in the EU. That’s what we shouldn’t
forget.”  The Vienna Initiative group of banking regulators and
international lenders such as the EBRD, the  International
Monetary Fund , the  World Bank  and the  European Investment Bank ,
discussed how to deal with bad debt in eastern Europe at a
meeting in Vienna on Jan. 14, the EBRD’s Nagy said.  “It’s also up to the regulators to give the right
incentives, to clean up these non-performing assets and not
allow them to be evergreened forever,” Nagy said.  Regulators should learn from past banking crisis cleanup
measures such as those taken in  Sweden , said Nagy. “We don’t
have to reinvent the wheel, the instruments are there,” she
said. “Otherwise you are going to go into the Japanese lost
decade.”  Capital Reserves  For countries with bad debt levels above 20 percent, this
would involve setting up bad-asset companies tasked with working
out the loans, she said. The resulting bank losses could be
buffered with existing capital reserves and provisions.  Despite the bad-loss burden, eastern Europe’s banking
industry continues to show good profitability and will
outperform its western European peers in the years to come,
UniCredit said in a study presented yesterday.  “With an average return on equity expected at 10.9 percent
in the years 2012-2015, the region will reveal an attractive and
more sustainable double-digit profitability ratio than Western
Europe,” the bank said.  No Deleveraging  Total banking assets in the region have grown even in the
aftermath of the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and
Europe’s debt crisis, though at a slower pace, according to the
study, released in Vienna. Total banking assets grew an average
7.3 percent per year to 2.9 trillion euros ($3.9 trillion)
between Sept. 2008 and Sept. 2012, according to the study.  Cost efficiency and risk management will remain the
determining factors for the banks’ performance in the region,
UniCredit said.  A clear differentiation across eastern Europe is
discernible, “with  Turkey  and  Russia  over-performing, while the
profitability of the banking sectors in the Balkans and Ukraine
is subdued,” it said. “Asset quality is a source of risk, at
least until 2014.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  