-- Eastern Europe’s Economy Faces Slow Improvement, Moody’s Says
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-01-15T12:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/eastern-europe-s-economy-faces-slow-improvement-moody-s-says.html
Economic growth in eastern  Europe  is
poised to quicken this year as risks from the continent’s debt
crisis ease and austerity measures are scaled back, according to
Moody’s Investors Service.  Gross domestic product in the mostly post-communist region
may expand 1.9 percent compared with an estimated 0.7 percent in
2012, the least in three years, the ratings company said today
in an e-mailed report. While growth will pick up in nine of the
region’s 15 economies, it will remain “subdued” compared with
the 5.6 percent average posted in 2004-2008.  “The more favorable economic-growth outlook for the region
will be supportive of fiscal consolidation programs, which are
set to slow after substantial progress in 2010-12,” Moody’s
said. “We expect a notable deceleration of economic activity in
only two countries in the region, Latvia and Slovakia, while the
majority will see either some acceleration in output growth or
experience a similar performance to 2012.”  Eastern European economies, whose expansion was boosted by
foreign credit inflows before the 2008 collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., are suffering through trade and banking
links to the recession-hit euro area. Central banks from
Budapest to Warsaw have cut borrowing costs to soften the
economic slowdown, while governments have trimmed spending.  Even amid the easing austerity, the region’s average budget
deficit under EU methodology will shrink to 2.7 percent of GDP
this year, falling below the 27-member bloc’s 3 percent
threshold for the first time since 2007, Moody’s said. Still,
the average ratio of debt to GDP will widen to 46.9 percent from
45.1 percent before stabilizing in 2014, it said.  Year-end inflation will slow to 3.1 percent this year from
3.7 percent in 2012 as energy prices stabilize in most
countries, Moody’s said.  Slovenia will probably be the only economy to contract this
year as it grapples with a banking crisis, according to the
ratings company, which predicts that Bosnia-Herzegovina,
 Croatia , the Czech Republic, and  Hungary  will exit recessions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  