-- Ecuador Opens Probe Into Banks After Tax Dispute With Correa
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2013-01-15T22:17:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/ecuador-opens-probe-into-banks-after-tax-dispute-with-correa-1-.html
Ecuador is investigating whether
banks violated antitrust laws when they warned customers that
anti-poverty taxes proposed by President Rafael Correa risked
undermining the country’s financial system.  Pedro Paez, the nation’s chief anti-monopoly watchdog as
head of the  Superintendency for Control of Market Power , said
he’s probing whether the South American country’s largest
lenders acted in concert last year when they sent e-mails about
the levies. Violations may result in fines of as much as 12
percent of annual sales, he said. He didn’t identify the banks.  “We’ve got a collective, simultaneous action from the most
important banks, the dominant operators in the market,” Paez, a
48-year-old former economics professor, said in an interview at
his home in Quito. “We began the investigation. We still don’t
know all the facts.”  Correa, 49, has criticized banks for using their financial
clout to influence national politics as he runs against former
 Banco de Guayaquil SA (GYL)  Chief Executive Officer Guillermo Lasso in
presidential elections scheduled for next month. The country
passed the tax in November to raise $320 million for anti-
poverty programs that pay qualifying families monthly cash
subsidies of $50.  The antitrust inquiry is probably a scare tactic to warn
other industries not to oppose the president’s policies, said
Walter Spurrier, the director of Guayaquil-based economic
researcher Grupo Spurrier. Any fines will be minimal, since the
government wants to send a message, not break the banks, he
said.  “The law opens the door to call collusion anything that
represents action from an association in defense of its
interests,” Spurrier said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“It’s to be able to attack any organization that disagrees with
public policy.”  After the government proposed its tax bill in October, the
country’s four largest banks,  Banco del Pichincha CA ,  Banco de
Guayaquil ,  Banco de la Produccion SA  and Banco Bolivariano SA,
sent e-mails to clients, made phone calls and ran television
advertisements critical of the plan, the president’s office said
in a Nov. 19 statement in its official gazette.  The next day the country’s banking regulator said it had
fined the banks’ top officers $7,886.82 each over the matter and
accused them of “sending confusing messages that could generate
adverse reactions or interpretations with irreparable
consequences in detriment of the public interest.”  Officials from Quito-based Pichincha met with the
superintendency in December to discuss the bank’s communications
to clients, Deputy Chairman Antonio Acosta said today in an e-
mailed statement. Pichincha hasn’t heard back from the agency
since, he said.  Officials at Guayaquil, Produbanco and Bolivariano didn’t
immediately reply to telephone messages seeking comment on the
investigation.  Paez, a former economic policy minister under Correa who
was nominated to the antitrust post by the president, said he
has as long as 480 days to conclude the investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in  Quito  at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  