-- Egypt Train Crash Leaves 19 Dead as Critics Assail Mursi
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-01-15T16:16:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/egypt-fatal-train-crash-bares-challenges-confronting-mursi.html
Egypt ’s Islamist president vowed to
hold accountable those responsible for a train crash in Cairo’s
outskirts that killed 19 security forces as the incident
provided new ammunition for his critics.  The accident, which comes about two months after another
train smashed into a school bus in southern Egypt, killing 50
children, was the fifth such occurrence since Mohamed Mursi’s
election in June, the state-run Ahram Gate reported. The deaths
of the children led to the resignation of the transportation
minister, who was replaced two weeks ago in a Cabinet reshuffle.  “Egypt’s tragedy is not in the orientations of who governs
it, but in the absence of the ability to run the nation,” Nobel
Laureate and opposition leader  Mohamed ElBaradei  said on his
Twitter account today. The failures “increase and the people
are the victims. Egypt kneels each day.”  Mursi, elected in June after being fielded by the Muslim
Brotherhood, visited some of the victims at the military
hospital where his ousted predecessor has been receiving
treatment. The Islamist said the wounded would receive all the
care necessary, and pledged to hold accountable those
responsible, irrespective of their positions, the state-run
Middle East  News Agency  reported.  Mursi Pressured  The U.S.-trained engineer has come under increasing
criticism over his stewardship of the economy and the country’s
political transition in the wake of the uprising that ousted
 Hosni Mubarak  in 2011. Less than two weeks before the second
anniversary of the start of the uprising, Mursi’s critics are
gearing up for new demonstrations on Jan. 25 against what they
argue is the Brotherhood’s attempt at a stranglehold on power.  Tuk-tuk driver Mustafi Ali, 20, said he went to the scene
immediately after the crash to help. Among the gathering crowds
he saw one young man crying over the body of his twin brother
who had been cut in half in the wreck.  “I had dreamt that this county would be a better place
after the revolution, not that every day our brothers and
sisters would die,” Ali said, adding he had participated in the
uprising against Mubarak two years earlier.  The collision occurred around midnight and left at least
117 injured when two cars from the military train carrying more
than 1,300 central security conscripts separated from the others
as it was moving to another track, transportation ministry
officials said.  Nationwide Protests  Dozens of activists gathered by Cairo’s main railway
station to protest, demanding a halt to rail activity
nationwide, while several demonstrators were arrested in another
protest that was forcibly dispersed by security forces in the
coastal city of Alexandria, the Ahram online website reported.
In the port city of Suez, dozens of activists demanded the
government be dismissed, MENA said.  Prime Minister Hisham Qandil, who visited the crash site in
the Giza district of Badrashin early in the morning, came under
fire from youth activists.  “The blood of those victims is on your neck,” one of the
activists told Qandil, the Ahram Gate website reported. The
train had been coming from the southern city of Assiut to Cairo.  An investigation has been launched into the accident,
authorities said, and the driver was detained for four days for
questioning. The government will pay the families of the
deceased 30,000 Egyptian pounds ($4,573) each while those
injured will be compensated based on their wounds, the Cabinet
said in an e-mailed statement. In addition, the victims will
receive separate compensation from the armed forces, it said.  Crushed Wrecks  The crash site was littered today with the shoes of the
conscripts, while the seats of the two carriages were strewn
across the area, spattered with blood. The train cars were
crushed wrecks, with residents hovering nearby, occasionally
fighting with officials as they accused the government of
negligence.  Residents and hospital officials in the area said the
hospital lacked the necessary supplies and it was the families
in the area who pooled their money together to buy bandages and
other supplies.  Shortly after midnight “we started receiving severe cases
that could have been saved, but we didn’t have the resources,”
Mohamed El-Sayed Ali, a morgue worker at the Badrashin Hospital,
said in an interview at the site. The first ambulances to arrive
came 45 minutes after the crash, said Nasser el-Saqa, another
man who rushed to help after the accident. “Only two showed up
at first. It wasn’t enough.”  Safety Record  Egypt has a long history of fatal train crashes, most
linked to negligence and a rail sector that has seen little
development or maintenance. The new transportation minister has
been charged with quickly overhauling and improving the network.  The country’s worst railway crash was in 2002, when a train
headed to southern Egypt caught fire, killing more than 350
people on board.  The head of the Freedom and Justice Party, the Muslim
Brotherhood’s political arm, laid the blame on decades of
neglect and corruption under Mubarak, saying in a statement on
the party’s Facebook page the recurring accidents are “evidence
of a near total collapse of the infrastructure.”  The accident is a “warning bell to all of us about the
need to overcome the political differences and to cooperate on
rebuilding Egypt,” Saad el-Katatni said. “There is no time to
waste.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  