-- Egypt’s Highest Court to Weigh Fate of Parliament Upper House
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-01-15T08:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/egypt-s-highest-court-to-weigh-fate-of-parliament-upper-house.html
Egypt ’s highest court is to hear
today a case challenging the legitimacy of the parliament’s
upper house, reviving a long-running political dispute ahead of
the anniversary of the uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak .  Demonstrators supporting the dissolution of the parliament
camped overnight in front of the Supreme Constitutional Court.
Islamist critics of the court had massed by the hundreds in the
same place in December and prompted justices to cancel a planned
hearing on the parliament case and another dealing with the
panel that drafted the country’s new constitution.  Banners hoisted across the street from the Pharaonic-
inspired court today read: “No to the terrorism of the
Brotherhood,” and “Youth of the revolution protect the
court.”  The protests and the debate over the constitution, which
was passed by a majority in a two-stage referendum that ended
Dec. 22, underscore the deepening rifts in the Arab world’s most
populous nation since President Mohamed Mursi was elected in
June. The Islamist president’s critics argue that he and the
Muslim Brotherhood are monopolizing power. The opposition says
Mursi pushed through a charter drafted by an Islamist-dominated
panel that undercuts freedoms and further enshrines Islamic law
in the country.  The high court came under fire from Islamists who said its
Mubarak-appointed justices were biased against Mursi and were
intent on upending attempts at progress by the country’s first
democratically elected civilian president.  Hearing Cancelled  As hundreds of Islamists massed by the court on Dec. 2, the
judges were forced to cancel a hearing in which they were to
decide on the constitutionality of the law under which the
parliament’s upper house was elected. The move drew sharp
rebukes from the judiciary, which claimed it was being targeted,
particularly after Mursi issued a Nov. 22 decree placing his
decisions above court review and granting the parliament and the
constitutional panel immunity from dissolution.  The legislature’s lower house was disbanded after the court
ruled against it earlier last year. The upper house has assumed
temporary legislative powers since the ratification of the
constitution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  