-- Telefonica Debt Cuts Don’t Fix Spanish Pain
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-01-16T12:53:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/telefonica-debt-cuts-don-t-fix-spanish-pain.html
Just before Christmas, top managers
of  Telefonica SA (TEF)  gathering in a  Madrid  cinema tried to remain
upbeat after a year in which the company had scrapped its
dividend and sold off assets. While they were quick to point out
that those steps had stabilized the company’s finances, they
couldn’t avoid the bad news in their biggest market,  Spain .  Luis Miguel Gilperez, the head of Spanish unit, told the
audience of 500 that with sales in Telefonica’s home country
tumbling as customers defect to low-cost competitors, managers
need to step up efforts to jump-start growth.  He said  Europe ’s most indebted phone company must continue
rolling out services introduced last year to fend off cheaper
rivals -- all with diminished resources, according to two people
at the event who asked not to be named because the meeting was
private.  “We are in for a long period of austerity in Spain, still
the company’s main market, and that will affect the group’s
earnings,” Henri Alexaline, a fixed-income investor who helps
manage $1 billion at FM Capital Partners Ltd. in  London . “I
would not be too bullish.”  Spain’s biggest telecommunications companies are struggling
to stop a decline in revenue as the country’s unemployment rate
has surged past 25 percent. In its latest attempt to prevent
customers from switching to cheaper rivals such as  Jazztel Plc (JAZ) ,
Telefonica in October introduced “Movistar Fusion,” a bundle
of voice, broadband and pay TV starting at 50 euros monthly.  Seeking Bargains  That prompted similar moves by  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and
 France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s Orange Spain unit. Telefonica lost 284,290
mobile-phone customers in Spain in October, bringing its market
share down to 36.8 percent, according to telecoms regulator CMT.
That compares with market share gains by Orange and  TeliaSonera
AB (TLSN) ’s Yoigo.  Most people joining Fusion seem to be existing customers
seeking bargains, which hurts profit margins, said German Garcia, an analyst at Ahorro Corp. Financiera in Madrid. More
price cuts aimed at halting customer losses would “seriously
hamper profitability,” he said.  “Despite all the asset disposals and debt-cutting last
year,” Garcia said, “the company needs to turn around
weakening earnings in Spain, which remains its Achilles’ heel.”  Vodafone, the second-biggest mobile operator in Spain,
plans to reduce its workforce of about 4,300 by as many as 900
after service revenue dropped 11 percent in the six months
through September. The plan follows Telefonica’s decision to cut
its workforce in Spain to 27,000 by year-end, down from 35,000
in 2011.  Soothing Pain  “Our headquarters are in Spain and we are exposed to the
macroeconomic situation, both in the share price and spreads,”
Chief Operating Officer Jose Maria Alvarez-Pallete told
reporters in London today. “However, we are getting the
perception that things may start to improve soon.”  The company, scheduled to report full-year earnings Feb.
28, is on track to meet its financial targets, Alvarez-Pallete
said. “Even if we have regained significant financial
flexibility, we still need to continue to deleverage.”  Efforts to cut debt helped ease the pain for Telefonica
investors. In the second half, its shares slid 1.7 percent,
outperforming Vodafone’s 14 percent drop and  France Telecom ’s 20
percent decline. London-based  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  led the former
European monopoly carriers with a 9 percent gain for the period.  Analysts Divided  Telefonica  dropped  0.5 percent to 10.94 euros at 1:48 p.m.
in Madrid. Vodafone fell 1.9 percent to 159.95 pence in London.  Analysts are divided on Telefonica stock, with 16
recommendations each for “buy” and “hold” and 13 “sells.”  While Telefonica might once have looked to Latin America to
bolster profits, that’s going to be tougher this year. In the
third quarter, earnings in the region rose 4.8 percent to 2.7
billion euros as sales gained 3.8 percent. That compares with
second-quarter revenue growth of 5.8 percent.  Latin America “is not the bright spot it used to be 12 or
18 months ago,” said Heinrich Ey, telecoms analyst at Allianz
Global Investors in  Frankfurt , which manages about 300 billion
euros including Telefonica shares.  Still, the company is confident that the region will
continue to expand. “There’s a lot of room for growth in  Latin
America  in many fronts,” Alvarez-Pallete said today.  Slashing Salaries  During the past 12 months, Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta canceled dividends and share buyback plans for 2012,
cutting a revenue forecast and slashing salaries for top
executives. As compensation for investors, the carrier has
pledged to pay 75 euro cents in two tranches by the end of 2014.  Alierta sold a stake in China Unicom ( Hong Kong ) Ltd. in
July and call-center unit Atento five months Later. In October,
Telefonica spun off its German business, raising $1.9 billion.
That helped the company cut its debt to 52.8 billion euros from
58.3 billion euros in June. Its target for end of 2012 is about
50 billion euros, Finance Chief Angel Vila told investors in
November.  Telefonica’s net debt at the end of the third quarter was
2.84 times earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
the  second highest  among European phone companies, behind only
 Portugal Telecom SGPS SA (PTC) , which had 7.8 billion euros in net
debt, or 3.49 times its Ebitda.  To raise more cash, the company is considering an initial
public offering of its Latin American business, though no final
decision has been made, Alvarez-Pallete said today.  Challenging Situation  Alierta’s asset sales have helped Telefonica’s position in
the credit market. On Jan. 8, it sold 1.5 billion euros of 10-
year bonds, taking advantage of a rally that has pushed relative
yields on corporate debt to the lowest level since January 2008.
The cost of insuring Telefonica debt tumbled to an 18-month low,
with credit-default swaps dropping to 206 basis points from a
record 572.5 in June.  Nonetheless,  Standard & Poor’s  said last month it may
reduce Telefonica’s BBB rating, the second-lowest investment
grade, citing the company’s exposure to Spain’s sovereign-debt
risks. Moody’s Investors Service ranks Telefonica’s long-term
debt Baa2, the equivalent of S&P’s, with a negative outlook.  Telefonica still faces a “challenging” domestic
situation, said Carlos Winzer, Moody’s lead analyst for
Telefonica. “Despite Telefonica’s international
diversification, the group’s exposure to the Spanish market puts
it at risk given the weak macroeconomic conditions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  