-- Emerging Stocks Drop Led by Biggest Technology Slump in 3 Weeks
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-01-15T22:14:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/emerging-stocks-fall-as-technology-shares-slump-on-iphone-demand.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, driven
by the biggest slump in technology shares in three weeks, on
concern waning demand for iPhones will hurt suppliers while
energy producers declined with  oil prices .  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317)  and Catcher Technology Co.
dragged Apple Inc. suppliers lower for a second day, with a
gauge of technology stocks falling 1.5 percent. Brazilian oil
producer OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA stoked a 0.6
percent drop in the Bovespa index, while  OAO Novatek (NVTK) ,  Russia ’s
largest independent gas producer, slumped in  London .  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index declined 0.7 percent to
1,073.48 in  New York . Apple Inc. cut orders for iPhone 5
displays this quarter by about 50 percent, the Nikkei newswire
reported yesterday. The U.S. risks economic and social calamity
if the $16.4 trillion debt ceiling isn’t increased, President
 Barack Obama  said. The 21 nations in the emerging-markets gauge
send an average 17 percent of their exports to the U.S., World
Trade Organization data show.  The Apple order reduction report “hit the supply chain and
there were big declines in Taiwan’s component producers,”
 Michael Wang , an emerging-markets strategist at Amiya Capital
LLP in London, said by e-mail. “Commodity prices are impacting
Russia, hurting sentiment in the  Middle East .”  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, dropped 0.4
percent to $44.47. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging
Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the
fund and expectations of price swings, climbed 4.3 percent to
17.25.  Debt Ceiling  Obama insisted yesterday he won’t negotiate on raising the
debt ceiling because the U.S. has no choice other than to pay
for spending it has authorized. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
added 0.1 percent in New York as a rally in retail and
transportation stocks overshadowed concern about talks on
raising the debt ceiling.  OGX lost 3 percent in Sao Paulo. BRF-Brasil Foods SA also
fell 3 percent as directors of the world’s largest poultry
exporter meet today to discuss a possible replacement of
Chairman Nildemar Secches,  Valor Economico  reported, without
saying where it got the information.  Property developer  Gafisa SA (GFSA3)  jumped 6.1 percent in Sao
Paulo, the highest close since March 15, after reporting that
sales almost tripled in the fourth quarter. Mexico’s  IPC Index (MEXBOL) 
slipped 0.3 percent.  Oil Slumps  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH)  dragged Poland’s WIG20 Index to the
lowest level since Dec. 13. Russia’s Micex Index added 0.1
percent, and Novatek dropped 1.5 percent in London.  Crude dropped from a four-month high, retreating 0.9
percent to settle at $93.28 in New York as  Standard & Poor’s
GSCI spot commodity index  lost 0.5 percent. A gauge of emerging-
market energy stocks dropped 0.8 percent, the most in a month.  South Korea’s Kospi index dropped 1.2 percent, the most in
two months, as  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  sank 2.6 percent.
Taiwan’s Taiex index lost 0.8 percent. Both measures were the
biggest decliners among major Asian benchmark gauges today.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic Chinese shares
gained 0.6 percent to the highest level in seven months, while
while the  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. retreated 0.5 percent.  E-Commerce
China Dangdang Inc. (DANG) , China’s biggest online book retailer,
dropped 3.6 percent to lead Chinese Internet stocks traded in
New York lower.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, closed at a two-
year high as foreign funds increased holdings of the nation’s
shares amid government measures to revive economic growth.  President Arrest  Pakistan’s benchmark stock  index , the KSE100 gauge, tumbled
the most since August 2011 after a report that the nation’s top
court ordered the arrest of Prime Minister Raja Parvez Ashraf.
Qatar’s benchmark QE stock index capped its biggest three-day
drop in a year.  In  South Africa , platinum producers gained as the metal
used mainly in pollution control devices in cars and in jewelry
climbed to a three-month high. Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd.,
the world’s second-biggest producer of the metal, jumped 1.7
percent in Johannesburg.  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. said it will idle four mine
shafts in South Africa, cutting output by 400,000 ounces a year,
after a review of its operations. The stock tumbled 3.7 percent
to the lowest level since Dec. 31.  The leu strengthened to the highest in more than 11 months
as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said Romanian bonds are eligible for its
emerging-market government bond index. The rand declined for the
sixth time in seven days against the dollar, weakening 1.3
percent, as concern deepened the country’s trade deficit will
worsen.  IPhone Sales  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  has risen 1.7 percent this
year, trailing a 3.3 percent gain in the MSCI World Index of
developed-country stocks. The measure for emerging markets
trades at 10.9 times, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of
13.3, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  A gauge of technology shares dropped 1.5 percent, the most
since Dec. 21, leading declines among the broader emerging-
market index’s 10 industry groups.  Apple sank to the lowest level since February today after
the Nikkei report underscored concerns about iPhone 5 sales and
the wider smartphone market. Steven Milunovich, an analyst at
UBS AG, reduced his iPhone sales estimates in December due to
reports of a 30 percent production cutback in  Asia , according to
a research report issued yesterday.  Catcher, which makes casings for Apple, dropped 3.4 percent
in Taipei to its lowest close in more than two months. Hon Hai,
which assembles iPhones, declined 3.4 percent, the lowest level
since Oct. 29. Its client Dell Inc., the personal-computer maker
that lost almost a third of its value last year, is in buyout
talks with private-equity firms, two people with knowledge of
the matter said.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  rose 1 basis points, or 0.01
percentage point, to 265 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  