-- Encana ‘Not for Sale’ as Interim CEO Focuses on Performance
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2013-01-15T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/encana-not-for-sale-as-interim-ceo-focuses-on-performance.html
Encana Corp. (ECA)  is “not for sale” as
interim Chief Executive Officer Clayton Woitas focuses on
developing assets already owned by  Canada ’s largest natural gas
producer and improving production performance.  Former Chief Executive Officer Randall Eresman retired last
week, prompting a search for a permanent replacement with Woitas
taking an interim role and sparking speculation about the
company’s strategy. The Calgary-based gas producer has posted
 losses  in six of the past 10 quarters as natural  gas prices 
declined to a low of less than $3 per million British thermal
units last year.  “The right CEO would see through the maze and see what the
world will look like in two to four years,” Woitas said in an
interview from Calgary. “Encana offers world-class  assets .
Whether the gas price recovers in one year or four years, those
world-class assets will capture that improved natural gas
price.”  Encana will continue to look at joint ventures to help it
develop its assets in places such as British Columbia and
 Alberta , Woitas said without providing details. There are no
plans for acquisitions and the company is diversifying into
producing more fossil fuel liquids, including oil, he said.  The company plans to look both internally and externally
for a new chief executive, Woitas said.  “The search for the new CEO will take a time frame of
three to six months and my role will be getting involved in the
budgeting role and ensuring the operational momentum in
Encana,” Woitas said. “I don’t want people to get
distracted.”  Encana fell 2.3 percent in Toronto yesterday to C$19.05,
valuing the company at C$14 billion ($14.2 billion). The  stock 
rose 4.1 percent last year after sliding 35 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  