-- Lennar Earnings Beat Analysts’ Estimates as Revenue Jumps
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-01-15T15:02:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/lennar-earnings-beat-analysts-estimates-as-revenue-jumps.html
Lennar Corp. (LEN) , the largest U.S.
homebuilder by market value, reported fiscal fourth-quarter
earnings that beat analysts’ estimates as revenue jumped 42
percent and profit margins climbed.  Net income for the three months through Nov. 30 rose to
$124.3 million, or 56 cents a share, from $30.3 million, or 16
cents, a year earlier, the Miami-based company said today in a
statement. The results included a net tax benefit of $18.6
million. The average  estimate  of 20 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey was for earnings of 45 cents a share.  U.S. builders are seeing rising sales as record-low
 interest rates  and a shrinking  supply  of existing homes on the
market spur  demand  for new homes. Lennar improved its gross
margin, a measure of profitabiliity, as it decreased promotions
and sold houses at higher prices.  The company had a “solid quarter led by stronger gross
margins on falling incentives,” Kenneth Zener, an analyst with
KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. in San Francisco, wrote in a note
to clients. “Builders are still benefiting from a nascent
recovery.”  Home Prices  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo  index 
of confidence probably rose for a ninth straight month in
January to 48, the highest since April 2006, according to the
average estimate of 49 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
data are due tomorrow. CoreLogic Inc. reported today that U.S.
home prices jumped 7.4 percent in November from a year earlier,
the biggest increase since May 2006.  Excluding tax gains, Lennar’s earnings would have been 47
cents a share, Adam Rudiger, an analyst with Wells Fargo & Co.
in  Boston , wrote in a note to clients.  “The headline EPS beat was largely driven by tax
benefits,” Rudiger wrote. “We are somewhat concerned that
elevated investor expectations in the face of more difficult
order comparisons in 2013 may make further share gains more
difficult to come by.”  Lennar slipped 2.3 percent to $40.06 at 9:59 a.m. in New
York. The shares gained 97 percent in 2012, compared with an 84
percent advance for the Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
Homebuilding  Index (S15HOME)  of 11 companies.  Rising Revenue  Revenue rose to $1.35 billion in the fourth quarter from
$953 million a year earlier. New orders increased 32 percent to
3,983 homes. Contract backlog, an indication of future sales,
jumped 87 percent to 4,053 homes. The average selling price of
homes delivered climbed to $261,000 from $243,000.  Gross margins on home sales jumped to 23.5 percent from
19.4 percent a year earlier.  “Our fourth quarter reflects the recovery in housing with
solid profitability in all of our business segments,” Chief
Executive Officer Stuart Miller said in the statement. “As we
head into 2013, we are extremely well positioned to gain market
share in a recovering market.”  The company’s Rialto Investments segment, which invests in
distressed real estate, reported operating earnings of $4.6
million, down from $8 million a year earlier. That was weaker
than expected, Megan McGrath, an analyst with MKM Partners LLC,
wrote in an e-mail. The results indicate declining revenue and
increased costs associated with owning and managing properties,
Rudiger said.  Lennar also said it is investing in the multifamily
segment, with a pipeline of more than $1 billion to be developed
in the next three years.  Apartment demand has surged in recent years as millions of
people forced out of their houses by foreclosure switched to
renting, and stricter mortgage requirements made it harder for
potential homebuyers to obtain loans. The U.S. apartment-vacancy
rate was 4.5 percent in the fourth quarter, an 11-year low,  Reis
Inc. (REIS)  reported last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  