-- Lennar Plans $1 Billion of Apartments in Rental Foray
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-01-15T21:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/lennar-plans-1-billion-of-apartments-in-rental-foray.html
Lennar Corp. (LEN) , the largest U.S.
homebuilder by market value, said it plans to diversify into
apartments with the construction of $1 billion of multifamily
properties as rental demand climbs.  The Miami-based company plans to start building 3,000
apartments at a development cost of $560 million this year,
Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Miller  said today on a conference
call. The first projects are a $36 million, 316-unit community
in Jacksonville, Florida, in partnership with  Carlyle Group LP (CG) ,
and a $32 million, 264-unit community northeast of Atlanta.  “As demand for new sale housing continues to increase from
historically low levels, rental demand has continued to grow,
fueled by expanding household formations, credit and down-
payment-challenged homebuyers and steadily improving
employment,” Miller said on the call.  The plan is the most ambitious foray yet by a U.S.
homebuilder into the rental market, said Robert Wetenhall, an
analyst with RBC Capital Markets LLC. Apartment demand has
surged as millions of people forced out of their houses by
foreclosure switched to renting, and stricter mortgage
requirements made it harder for potential homebuyers to obtain
loans. The U.S. apartment-vacancy rate was 4.5 percent in the
fourth quarter, an 11-year low, Reis Inc. reported last week.  Lennar is entering the market as its sales of single-family
homes increase and profit margins improve. The company said
today that net income for the three months through Nov. 30 rose
to $124.3 million, or 56 cents a share, from $30.3 million, or
16 cents, a year earlier. The average  estimate  of 20 analysts in
a Bloomberg survey was for earnings of 45 cents a share.  Higher Orders  Revenue rose to $1.35 billion in the fourth quarter from
$953 million a year earlier. New orders increased 32 percent to
3,983 homes.  The results included a net tax benefit of $18.6 million.
Excluding tax gains, Lennar’s earnings would have been 48 cents
a share, Chief Financial Officer Bruce Gross said on the call.  Lennar slipped 0.8 percent to $40.68 at the close in New
York. The shares gained 97 percent in 2012, compared with an 84
percent advance for the Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
Homebuilding  Index (S15HOME)  of 11 companies.  Investors probably expected Lennar to beat estimates by a
larger margin, and the announcement about diversifying into
apartments may have injected uncertainty into the company’s
profile as a homebuilder, according to Wetenhall. The analyst,
who  rates  Lennar outperform, the equivalent of buy, said
entering the multifamily segment is “a strong move.”  “Lennar has the management wherewithal to execute this and
augment its growth strategy,” Wetenhall said in a telephone
interview.  Toll Brothers  Other builders in the multifamily market include  Toll
Brothers Inc. (TOL) , the largest U.S. luxury-home developer. The
company has invested in joint ventures developing apartments,
including spending $15.4 million for a 50 percent interest with
Brandywine Realty Trust in a 398-unit project in Plymouth
Meeting,  Pennsylvania .  Lennar has opened multifamily development offices in
Atlanta; Chicago; Dallas; Seattle;  San Francisco ; Orange County
and Santa Barbara in California; Charlotte, North Carolina;
Miami and Jacksonville, Miller said.  It will take as long as three years for the apartments to
contribute to income, Miller said. Lennar may sell the
properties and continue as an operator through a fund “where we
could accumulate a huge portfolio of income-producing properties
that would benefit the company on the long-term basis,” he
said.  Rising Construction  Lennar’s entry into apartments puts it in competition with
real estate investment trusts at a time when construction has
increased and rents have begun to level off, said Jeffrey Langbaum, an analyst with Bloomberg Industries.  “Apartments are the one real estate property type where
new construction is already approaching historic levels, driving
rental growth rates lower for existing landlords,” he said in a
e-mail. “Additional new supply would theoretically exacerbate
that situation.”  Lennar may be competing with REITs including  Post
Properties Inc. (PPS) ,  Camden Property Trust (CPT) ,  Mid-America Apartment
Communities Inc. (MAA)  and  Colonial Properties Trust (CLP)  in the southeast
U.S. and  AvalonBay Communities Inc. (AVB) , Essex Properties Trust Inc.
and  BRE Properties Inc. (BRE)  on the West Coast, Langbaum said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  