-- EPA Ethanol-Rule Challenge Won’t Be Reconsidered, Judges Say
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-15T18:03:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/epa-ethanol-rule-challenge-won-t-be-reconsidered-judges-say-1-.html
A federal appeals court refused to
reconsider a decision to throw out a lawsuit challenging an
Environmental Protection Agency rule that allows higher
concentrations of corn-based ethanol in gasoline.  On the losing side were grocery, auto and oil industry
trade groups that sued in 2010, saying using more corn-based
ethanol in auto fuel would harm engines and push up the price of
food and gasoline. Today’s decision upheld a three-judge panel’s
ruling in August that said the industries couldn’t show they had
suffered specific harm as a result of the EPA’s decision.  Six of seven judges who reviewed the case voted to let
stand the earlier decision. U.S. Circuit Judge  Brett Kavanaugh 
said in a five-page dissent that throwing out the case because
the industries lacked standing to sue was mistaken.  The case has “significant economic ramifications for the
American food and petroleum industries, as well as for American
consumers who will ultimately bear some of the costs,”
Kavanaugh wrote. He said the EPA would have lost if the court
had considered the merits of the arguments.  August Dissent  Kavanaugh also cast a dissenting vote in the August
decision.  The Grocery Manufacturers Association, the  American
Petroleum Institute  and groups representing companies including
 Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , challenged two EPA decisions
that allowed the introduction of E15, a gasoline blended with
ethanol.  Carmakers have told Congress that vehicle warranties won’t
cover damage caused by E15.  The EPA in 2010 granted a request from ethanol producers to
permit increased concentrations of the corn-based fuel in
gasoline to 15 percent from 10 percent for vehicles made for the
model year 2007. The new rule was later extended to all cars
made after 2001.  Blends of 15 percent ethanol are referred to as E15, while
concentrations of 10 percent and 85 percent are called E10 and
E85.  The case is Grocery Manufacturers Association v. U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, 10-1380,  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the District of Columbia Circuit ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 