-- Tetangco Says Rapid Capital Inflows May Create Asset Bubbles
-- B y   M a x   E s t a y o   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2013-01-15T05:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/tetangco-says-rapid-capital-inflows-may-create-asset-bubbles.html
The  Philippines  is focused on
containing speculative inflows that threaten to create potential
asset-price bubbles, and the central bank said it has
participated in the currency market to restrain the peso.  “A clear and present concern is the impact of capital
inflows,” Governor  Amando Tetangco  said in a speech in Manila
today. The peso has advanced against the U.S. dollar as a result,
and the “inflows could also feed credit booms, asset-price
bubbles and other financial imbalances if these flows are not
mostly absorbed by domestic productive activities,” he said.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas followed policy makers in South
Korea in clamping down on currency-forward positions. The
Southeast Asian nation in December imposed a ceiling for non-
deliverable currency forwards for local lenders at 20 percent of
capital, and 100 percent for foreign entities.  The peso climbed 0.3 percent to 40.56 per dollar today,
heading for its highest close since February 2008, according to
Tullett Prebon Plc. It was the best performer in Asia last year
after the South Korean won among 11 most-traded currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Bangko Sentral has intervened to manage the peso, Tetangco
said. Policy makers will keep the exchange rate market-
determined and are not targeting a specific level, he said.  The economy grew 7.1 percent in the third quarter. The
central bank can keep  interest rates  low in 2013 as inflation is
likely to stay at the low end of the target range of 3 percent
to 5 percent, Tetangco said. The monetary authority meets on Jan.
24 after holding borrowing costs at 3.5 percent last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Max Estayo in  Manila  at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Lester M. Yap at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  