-- EU Carbon Price Fall Prevents Climate Investments, Germany Says
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n
-- 2013-01-15T09:55:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/eu-carbon-price-fall-prevents-climate-investments-germany-says.html
The decline in European emissions
prices failed to spark company investments in technologies that
protect the climate, the German  Environment Ministry  said.  While Germany has cut greenhouse-gas emissions 27 percent
compared with 1990 levels to outperform by 6 percentage points
the country’s target under the  Kyoto Protocol , reductions have
been slowing in recent years, the country’s Environment Ministry
said today in an e-mailed statement, citing data from the
Federal Environment Agency.  Energy and industrial companies reduced their emissions by
just 5 percent since 2005 as low prices in the European Union’s
emissions trading system haven’t encouraged new investments in
climate-protection technologies, it said. The price of EU
permits for December dropped to a record 5.75 euros ($7.70) a
metric ton on Jan. 14, according to broker data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Reaching the government’s target to lower emissions 40
percent from 1990 levels by 2020 “will require additional
action,” Environment Minister Peter Altmaier said in the
statement. “Each sector must contribute fairly.”  German greenhouse gas emissions fell 2.9 percent in 2011
from the previous year as less fossil fuels were burned for
heating amid milder weather, the ministry said. Meanwhile,
emissions from the transportation sector are rising slightly,
said Jochen Flasbarth, head of the Federal Environment Agency.  “ Germany  should work toward adjusting the EU emissions
trading budget so the energy sector and industry invest more in
climate protection,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  