-- EU Lawmakers Set Jan. 24 Debate on Law Fix to Delay Carbon Sales
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-01-15T14:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/eu-lawmakers-set-jan-24-debate-on-law-fix-to-delay-carbon-sales.html
European Union lawmakers set Jan. 24
as the date for talks on changing a draft emissions-trading law
in a bid to curb the oversupply of permits, according to an EU
document.  The European Parliament’s environment committee will
consider amendments to a bill that would enable delaying
auctions of 900 million carbon permits, according to the  agenda 
of the meeting. The measure, proposed by the European Commission
last year, would reiterate the EU regulator’s right to decide
the timing of permit sales, allowing it to tackle a record glut
of allowances.  If parliament passes the bill, EU member states would next
have to pass a separate measure with details of auction delays.  At stake are prices in the world’s biggest cap-and-trade
emissions system after they plunged about 76 percent since the
beginning of 2008 as the economic crisis hurt industrial output.
The glut has swelled to almost half of the average annual
pollution limit in the 27-nation EU.  Members of the Parliament’s environment committee proposed
a total of 42 changes to the commission’s one-sentence amendment
to the emissions trading law. The discussion next week will
provide more clarity on the positions of political groups in the
assembly. Talks about the measure will continue until Feb. 19,
when the committee is scheduled to vote.  Representatives of political groups in parliamentary
committees usually agree on amendments to legislative proposals
before a vote. The position of a committee supervising the
measure is a recommendation to the whole assembly. The plenary
vote on the carbon law fix may be held in March at the earliest,
according to Matthias Groote, the chairman of the environment
committee and supervisor of the draft measure.  Members of the committee on Jan. 24 are also scheduled to
consider a draft report on a freeze on emissions-trading
obligations on foreign flights proposed by the commission in
November, the agenda showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  