-- Yen Advances on Speculation BOJ Easing Is Priced In; Euro Drops
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-01-16T09:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/euro-remains-lower-before-ecb-s-nowotny-speaks-yen-holds-gain.html
The yen advanced, extending a rally
from a 2 1/2-year low against the dollar, on speculation its
slide incorporates any stimulus the  Bank of Japan (8301)  may propose at
its next meeting.  Japan ’s currency strengthened for a second day against the
euro after the Nikkei newspaper reported that Shigeru Ishiba,
secretary general of Japan’s ruling Liberal Democratic Party,
said a weaker yen may trouble some industries. The euro fell
against the greenback, extending yesterday’s drop, after
Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker said the currency
is “dangerously high.”  China ’s  yuan  fell, retreating from a
19-year high, after the central bank cut its reference rate.  “The market has had second thoughts ahead of the BOJ
meeting,” said Arne Rasmussen, head of currency research at
 Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen. “The comments from politicians
aren’t helping either. It is very tempting for people who’ve
been shorting the yen to take some profit. We don’t think the
BOJ will back down, we think they will deliver an aggressive
monetary policy and the yen will continue to weaken.”  A short position is a bet that an asset’s price will fall.  The yen climbed at least 0.8 percent against all 16 of its
major peers. It rose 1.1 percent to 87.85 per dollar at 9:12
a.m. in  London , following a 0.8 percent jump yesterday. That
would be the sharpest back-to-back gain since Aug. 9, 2011. The
Japanese currency reached 89.67 on Jan. 14, a level unseen since
June 2010.  The euro slid 0.3 percent to $1.3270 after dropping 0.6
percent yesterday. It touched $1.3404 on Jan. 14, the strongest
since Feb. 29. The currency fell 1.3 percent to 116.65 yen.  Inflation Goal  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his fellow board members
will review the central bank’s inflation goal at their meeting
on Jan. 21-22 meeting. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has called for
the target to be doubled and said on Jan. 13 that he wants a BOJ
chief “who can push through bold monetary policy.”  The yen halted losses yesterday after Japanese Economy
Minister Akira Amari said an excessively weak currency may drive
up import costs and hurt households.  “Expectations for more monetary easing by the BOJ have
been running ahead of themselves, so people are cautious about a
possible disappointment,” said Kengo Suzuki, a currency
strategist in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Securities Co., a unit of Japan’s
third-largest bank by market value. “A further decline in the
yen is less likely unless there is a surprise.”  Nissan Motor Co. Chief Executive Officer Carlos Ghosn said
yesterday the auto maker would move more production overseas to
keep from being a “prisoner of exchange rates.”  Yen Dependence  “We want to decrease our dependence on the yen, no matter
what is the evolution of the yen,” Ghosn told Bloomberg at the
at the 2013 North American International Auto Show in  Detroit .  Currency volatility rose to a four-month high, increasing
the chance that price swings will wipe out profits. The JPMorgan
G7 Volatility Index, derived from premiums on foreign-exchange
options, rose to as much as 8.43 percent yesterday, the most
since Sept. 6. It fell to 7.06 percent on Dec. 18, the lowest
since August 2007.  The yen tumbled 5.3 percent over the past month, making it
the biggest decliner among a basket of 10 developed-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar rose 0.3 percent and the euro climbed 1.2 percent,
the indexes show.  The euro’s advance against the dollar is posing a fresh
threat to the European economy just as it shows signs of
escaping the debt crisis, Juncker, who leads the group of euro-
area finance ministers said yesterday.  “It was said last year that the euro zone was at risk of
breaking and I said last year that this won’t happen,” Juncker,
who steps down this month as head of the so-called eurogroup,
told an annual gathering of business leaders in Luxembourg.
“The euro zone has become more stable after lots of efforts,
some from me,” Juncker said, adding that now “the euro
foreign-exchange rate is dangerously high.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at   pdobson2@bloomberg.net . 