-- Euro-Area Exports Rose for the First Time in Three Months
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-01-15T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/euro-area-exports-rose-for-the-first-time-in-three-months.html
Euro-area exports increased in
November for the first time in three months, even as the 17-
nation currency bloc was mired in its second recession in four
years.  Exports rose a seasonally adjusted 0.8 percent from
October, when they dropped a revised 1.2 percent, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today. Imports fell
1.5 percent and the  trade surplus  widened to 11 billion euros
($14.7 billion) from a revised 7.4 billion euros in the previous
month.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  last week held
off doling out more recession-fighting medicine, saying the
euro-area economy may find its way to “a gradual recovery”
later this year. Economic sentiment in the euro area increased
more than expected in December and  business confidence  in
 Germany , the region’s largest economy, rose for a second month.  “I expect the recession to end in the second quarter of
this year and a further recovery from there on,” said Peter Leonhardt, an economist at Dekabank in Frankfurt. “It seems the
worst is behind us.”  German exports outside the European Union fell 0.4 percent
in November when adjusted for seasonal swings, while imports
dropped 9.7 percent, today’s report showed. Shipments from
France and  Italy  grew 2.9 percent and 1.8 percent, respectively.  ‘Significant Improvement’  Germany’s economy,  Europe ’s largest, may have shrunk as
much as 0.5 percent in the final quarter of 2012 as the
sovereign debt crisis and weaker global growth damped exports
and company investment, the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden said today in a preliminary estimate.  Euro-area  industrial production  unexpectedly dropped in
November and the currency bloc’s economy may have contracted for
a third quarter from October through December. At the same time,
the ECB sees “a significant improvement in financial market
conditions and a broad stabilization of market indicators,”
Draghi said on Jan. 10.  European stock markets  have rallied after Draghi said in
July he’d do everything within his power to save the euro. He
announced an unlimited bond-buying program, dubbed Outright
Monetary Transactions, in September.  German carmaker Volkswagen AG said yesterday its deliveries
in 2012 rose 11 percent to 9.07 million vehicles. It “was the
best sales year ever,” Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said.  Job Cuts  The Frankfurt-based central bank last week kept its
benchmark  interest rate  at a record low of  0.75 percent  in a
unanimous decision.  Still, the ECB forecasts the euro-area economy will shrink
0.3 percent this year and some companies are warning about
tougher competition and more uncertainty.  Siemens AG said on Dec. 19 it is eliminating 1,100 jobs at
two energy units in Germany, preparing for years of subdued
demand for gas-fired turbines made at its Berlin plant as
competition increases and utilities hesitate to invest.  Schaeffler AG, the roller-bearing maker that is the biggest
investor in car-parts manufacturer Continental AG, last month
lowered its 2012 sales forecast because of weaker demand in
Europe and  Asia .  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis is “far from over,” German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said in her New Year’s speech on Dec.
31. At the same time, progress has been made and the “reforms
that we’ve agreed on are starting to take effect.”  The euro region’s  jobless rate  rose to a record 11.8
percent in November. In Germany, plant and machinery orders fell
for the first time in three months in November amid weak
domestic and foreign demand, the VDMA machine-makers’
association said on Jan. 10.  “We are still waiting for the ’real’ economy to follow
significant improvements in financial markets,” said Martin Van Vliet, an economist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “The economic
situation is difficult but the upturn in confidence gives hope
for the months to come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in  Frankfurt  at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  