-- Euro-Area Debt Sharing Requires More Budget Oversight, Rehn Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-01-15T20:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/euro-area-debt-sharing-requires-more-budget-oversight-rehn-says.html
European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said any joint bond sales by
euro-area governments to curb borrowing costs must await
stricter EU oversight of national budgets and more support in
countries such as Germany.  Rehn’s comments highlight the thinking that led EU
President  Herman Van Rompuy  in December to drop proposals for
so-called euro bonds or a European debt-redemption fund from a
roadmap for an overhaul of the crisis-hit euro area.   “Further reinforced economic governance is necessary,”
Rehn told the European Parliament today in Strasbourg, France.
“This should involve enhanced budgetary surveillance and
further sharing of fiscal sovereignty.”  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , seeking re-election this
year, has fought off calls by distressed governments in southern
Europe and by the EU Parliament for further sovereign-debt
sharing following the euro area’s creation since 2010 of
European rescue funds able to sell bonds to finance aid
packages. So far, five euro nations --  Greece , Ireland,
 Portugal , Spain and Cyprus -- have requested financial rescues.  “The guiding principle remains: there can be no further
mutualization without deeper integration,” Rehn said.  He said governments and voters in AAA rated euro nations
including Germany and the Netherlands need to be persuaded of
euro bonds’ benefits, which he said could be “the stabilization
of sovereign-debt markets and the creation of a new, deep and
liquid bond market.”  “Any progress or roadmap toward common issuance must
obviously build on broad political acceptance and support by all
participating governments and by the civil society at large,”
Rehn said. “Therefore, much more work would need to be done to
credibly and convincingly address the concerns of those
governments and parts of the civil society that are currently
not yet convinced of common debt issuance and its merits.”    To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg,  France  at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Stearns at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net  