-- Europe Stocks May Rise 10% This Year, BNP Investment, Amundi Say
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2013-01-15T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/europe-stocks-may-rise-10-this-year-bnp-investment-amundi-say.html
European equities may gain as much
as 10 percent this year as sovereign bonds become less
attractive, according to BNP Paribas Investment Partners and
Amundi, two of  France ’s biggest fund managers.  Christian Dargnat, chief investment officer of BNP Paribas
Investment Partners in Paris, which oversees the equivalent of
$655 billion, expects an 8 percent to 10 percent gain in 2013
and last month started buying Spanish and Italian shares. Romain Boscher, global head of equities at Amundi in Paris, which
oversees $948 billion, predicts a “low double-digit” rise and
has been increasing exposure to so-called cyclical stocks.  “We’re returning to some stocks in the periphery to play a
return to normal,” Dargnat said in a phone interview. “All
companies in Italy and  Spain , no matter what their quality, were
penalized by the cost of financing. That has improved and will
continue. That favors a revaluation of their stocks.”  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 14 percent in 2012, the
most in three years, as the  European Central Bank  and the U.S.
 Federal Reserve  announced stimulus measures. Spanish 10-year
yields have dropped 2.64 percentage points since a high on July
24, while the corresponding Italian yields slid 2.44 percentage
points during the same period.  “We have the feeling that in 2013, we are moving farther
and farther from systemic risk,” Dargnat said. “ Monetary
policy  is very accommodating. That will continue.”  Accommodative Policy  ECB policy makers last week kept the benchmark interest
rate at a record low of 0.75 percent. ECB President  Mario Draghi 
promised on July 26 to do whatever it takes to preserve the
euro.  In the U.S., The Federal Reserve said it plans to keep the
main rate near zero until unemployment falls below 6.5 percent
and as long as inflation remains less than 2.5 percent.  Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago President Charles Evans
yesterday said the U.S. central bank should keep policy
accommodative to support the world’s biggest economy, even after
Federal Open Market Committee minutes, released Jan. 3 in
 Washington , showed a split on how long the $85 billion monthly
bond-purchase program should last.  BNP Investment Partners maintains its preference for
defensive shares, or those less dependent on economic growth.
Still, Dargnat said “at one moment or another, we’re going to
need to move to cyclicals.”  In the second half of 2012, Amundi started buying more
stocks sensitive to the economy and Boscher expects the strategy
to bear fruit in the first half of this year.  “The heart of preoccupation was the Chinese economy and we
reached the low point there in the third quarter,” Boscher said
in a phone interview. “We prefer companies with exposure to
 emerging markets . That’s why we’re optimistic. European
companies are exposed to the rest of the world. Last year was
proof of that.”  Chinese Growth  Chinese gross domestic product will probably increase more
than 8 percent in 2013, China Securities Journal reported
yesterday, citing unidentified analysts. That’s higher than the
7.7 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey for growth in
2012.  China’s economic recovery is a sign global demand will
improve this year, Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said Jan. 13
before a visit to  Hong Kong . December economic data including
industrial production and fixed-asset investment as well as a
report on fourth-quarter gross domestic product are due on Jan.
18.  Dargnat and Boscher both are optimistic that the flow of
money into European equities will increase as returns from
monetary and bond investments dwindle with lower  interest rates .  “We hope and anticipate movement into stocks,” Boscher
said. “Investors will put aside less cash. They are getting
itchy with the cash and will invest it in stocks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  