-- Ex-Argentina Central Banker Allowed to File Bond Argument
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-01-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/ex-argentina-central-banker-allowed-to-file-bond-argument.html
Alfonso Prat-Gay, a former governor
of  Argentina ’s central bank, was granted permission by a U.S.
appeals court yesterday to file a brief supporting his country’s
effort to overturn a ruling that it must pay $1.33 billion to
holders of defaulted bonds.  Prat-Gay, now a congressman representing  Buenos Aires , said
bondholders who haven’t sold the new bonds they received in a
2005 bond exchange have made a 58 percent profit, while
Argentina’s per capita real GDP has risen 46 percent since 2005.  “This means that the average Argentine citizen is worse
off than the average participating bondholder,” Prat-Gay said
in a filing in the U.S. Court of Appeals in  New York . “And the
GDP warrant clock continues to click relatively more in the
latter’s favor. How fair is that?”  A U.S. judge ruled that Argentina must pay the holders of
its defaulted bonds if it proceeds with scheduled payments of
more than $3 billion to owners of its restructured bonds.  U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa in  Manhattan  ruled that
Argentina must pay the money into an escrow account while an
appeals court considers his rulings in the case. The appeals
court ruled Oct. 26 that Argentina must pay holders of the
defaulted notes if it pays off on its restructured debt.  Prat-Gay supports his country’s bid for a rehearing of that
ruling, according to a court filing. Argentina defaulted on a
record $95 billion of debt in 2001. In 2005 and 2010, the
country offered to let holders of the defaulted bonds exchange
them for new bonds at a discount of more than 70 percent,
according to a brief filed in November in federal court in
Manhattan by holders of the exchanged bonds.  The case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina,
12-00105,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  