-- Ex-Siemens Worker Says He Was Fired for Flagging Kickback
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-01-15T20:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/ex-siemens-worker-says-he-was-fired-for-flagging-kickback.html
Siemens AG,  Europe ’s largest
engineering company, was sued by a former compliance officer in
its  China  unit who claimed he was fired after exposing evidence
of hospital kickbacks.  Meng-Lin Liu filed a whistle-blower complaint in  Manhattan 
federal court today, claiming he uncovered a scheme in which
Siemens Ltd. China submitted inflated bids to sell medical
diagnostic and scanning equipment to public hospitals in China
and  North Korea , and then sold the equipment at reduced prices
to intermediaries that charged the hospitals the full bid price.  “This had all of the hallmarks of a classic bribery or
‘kickback’ scheme and there was no legitimate explanation for
the huge price differentials that existed between the prices at
which Siemens sold the equipment and the prices paid by the end-
user hospitals,” Liu claimed in the complaint.  Liu, who said he was hired by Siemens in March 2008, claims
he was fired after presenting evidence of the scheme to Siemens
China’s chief financial officer for health care. He’s seeking
unspecified damages.  Alexander Becker, a spokesman for Munich-based Siemens,
declined to comment on the allegations in Liu’s suit.  In 2008, Siemens paid $1.6 billion to settle bribery
investigations by U.S. and German authorities.  Compliance Officials  Liu claimed that shortly after starting at Siemens China,
he found a culture of “evading and circumventing” the anti-
corruption controls that Siemens agreed to adopt in its 2008
plea agreement with the U.S. government. He claimed that senior
compliance officials, lawyers and executives at  Siemens AG (SIE)  and
Siemens China were aware of evidence that employees were
intentionally evading the company’s due-diligence policies.  “The internal control evasions uncovered by Liu involved
intentional conduct which had no possible innocent
explanation,” according to his complaint.  Liu said hospitals that bought the Siemens equipment,
including magnetic resonance imaging machines and computed
tomography scanners, paid the intermediaries a markup 20 percent
to 130 percent higher than the price paid to Siemens. He said he
concluded the gap represented money that was being channeled as
bribes to corrupt hospital procurement officials.  Liu claimed he was put on a leave of absence within a week
of showing a spreadsheet of the suspect transactions to the
health-care CFO and his contract wasn’t renewed when it ended
three months later.  The case is Liu v. Siemens AG, 13-CV-317, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  