-- Ex-SAC Manager Simonian Said to Start Stock Hedge Fund
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   N a t h a n i e l   B a k e r
-- 2013-01-15T16:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/ex-sac-manager-simonian-said-to-start-stock-hedge-fund.html
Charles Simonian, a former portfolio
manager at SAC Capital Advisors LP’s Sigma Capital unit, plans
to start a long-short equity hedge fund, according to a person
with knowledge of the matter.  Simonian, 41, will open New York-based Trove Capital
Management LLC in March or April, said the person, who asked not
to be identified because the information isn’t public. The fund
will focus on industrial, consumer, media, telecommunications
and business-services stocks with market capitalizations of $1
billion or more, and its capacity for assets is at least $1
billion, the person said.  Simonian confirmed the start of his fund. Long-short equity
managers can bet on and against stocks.  Simonian joined SAC’s Sigma Capital unit in 2008 and left
in September, the person said. At SAC, the  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based hedge fund run by Steven A. Cohen, Simonian
invested in the same industries his new fund will target, the
person said. Josh Fischer, 42, a former portfolio manager at SAC
from 2008 to 2010 who also traded in industrials, consumer,
media and telecommunications stocks, will join Simonian at Trove
Capital as director of research, the person said. Simonian has
also hired a chief financial officer and may add one or two
analysts.  Goldman, JPMorgan  Prior to SAC, Simonian was founder and portfolio manager of
Exton Capital Management LLC, a hedge fund that invested in the
same areas he’ll focus on at Trove Capital, from 2005 to 2007,
the person said. Before that, Simonian was a partner and
portfolio manager at Gracie Capital LLC from 1999 to 2004. From
1996 to 1998, he was a vice president at Atticus Capital LLC. He
started his career as a merger and acquisitions investment
banking analyst at Gleacher & Co. from 1994 to 1996.  Trove Capital’s prime brokers are  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and the fund will have a one-year soft
lock-up period, the person said. In a soft lock-up period,
investors can usually take out their money before the term
finishes if they pay a redemption fee.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission told SAC in
November it is considering pursuing civil fraud claims related
to alleged insider trading in two drugmakers. The investigation
marks the first time government officials linked Cohen, 56, to
trades at the center of an insider-trading case, as part of
their multiyear probe into the hedge fund industry. Cohen hasn’t
been charged with any wrongdoing.  SAC has told portfolio managers it will raise their bonuses
by 3 percentage points to help retain employees amid the probe
by regulators, a person familiar with the matter said last week.
The managers are typically paid an annual bonus of about 15
percent to 25 percent of the profits they generate from their
trades, another person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  