-- Ex-U.S. Official Guilty in Conflict Case Tied to Gallup
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-01-15T19:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/ex-u-s-exec-pleads-guilty-to-felony-in-case-tied-to-gallup-1-.html
A former U.S. official who’s a
defendant in a whistle-blower lawsuit against the Gallup
Organization pleaded guilty to using his job overseeing
government contracts for personal gain.  Timothy Cannon, 63, formerly the director of the  Federal
Emergency Management Agency ’s human capital division, pleaded
guilty today in federal court in  Washington  to one felony count
of conflict of interest.  Cannon expressed an interest in working for a company that
was seeking a FEMA contract and “was instrumental” in its
procurement of a five-year, $6 million award, Assistant U.S.
Attorney  David Johnson  said in a hearing before U.S. District
Judge Amy Berman Jackson.  “We would agree that Mr. Cannon had a role in this
contract,” said David Schertler, Cannon’s attorney.  Gallup isn’t named in court records in the criminal case.
Prosecutors and the charging document referred to “Company A”
which oversaw “the BEST Workforce Initiative,” a FEMA program
that according to the agency’s website was managed by Gallup.  On Nov. 18, 2008, according to a court filing, an employee
told the chief executive officer of “Company A” in an e-mail,
“I talked to Tim today. He asked for a job.”  ‘Significant Client’  The CEO responded, according to the charging document,
“What about ethics...are we okay with all of that...he is a
significant client...am sure you know the rules...gee he seems
like a winner to me...I don’t think these guys are as expensive
as one might think... and he has a military background[.]”  In December 2008 and January 2009, Cannon requested
additional funding for the BEST Workforce Initiative, according
to the charging document, writing in a Jan. 6, 2009 e-mail to an
employee of the unnamed company, “...[A]h yes, I got another
500k put on the contract. Cool huh?”  William Kruse, Gallup’s in-house counsel, said in an e-
mailed statement, “Since these allegations and charges were not
against Gallup, there is nothing Gallup can comment in regards
to this development.”  Kruse said the “civil case against Gallup was based on the
false allegations of a former disgruntled employee. I am
confident that there were no illegal actions taken by Gallup
staff on government contracts or any other contract for that
matter.”  ‘Internal Advocate’  In the whistle-blower lawsuit, Gallup is accused of
overbilling the U.S. on polling for federal agencies and
offering a job to Cannon as it sought additional funding from
FEMA. A Gallup executive described Cannon as the company’s
“internal advocate” at FEMA, according to the lawsuit brought
by Michael Lindley, a former Gallup employee, and joined last
year by the  Justice Department .  Gallup caused more than $10 million in overpayments by
inflating the time required to fulfill contracts for the  U.S.
Mint , the State Department and other agencies, according to the
suit.  Cannon faces a maximum sentence of five years in prison and
a fine of $250,000 when he is scheduled to be sentenced on April
9. Prosecutors said in court that they didn’t object to Jackson
considering a sentence of zero to six months in prison.  “I don’t hope for any sentence,” Cannon told Jackson.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Cannon, 13-cr-00001, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington). The civil
case is U.S. ex rel. Lindley v. The Gallup Organization, 09-cv-
01985, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  