-- Mexico Peso Drops as Global Growth Concern Damps Export Outlook
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-01-15T15:38:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/mexico-peso-drops-as-global-growth-concern-damps-export-outlook.html
Mexico ’s peso dropped the most in
three weeks as signs of a stalled global recovery damped the
outlook for the Latin American country’s exports.  The currency depreciated 0.5 percent to 12.6566 per U.S.
dollar at 9:11 a.m. in Mexico City and earlier fell 0.8 percent
for the biggest intraday loss since Dec. 24. The currency has
advanced 1.6 percent this year, the most among 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The peso fell along with most emerging-market currencies as
reports showed manufacturing in the New York region contracted
for a sixth straight month and that Germay’s economy probably
shrank last quarter. Mexico depends on exports for about 30
percent of its gross domestic product, and sends 80 percent of
them to its northern neighbor.  “The market was waiting for an excuse to sell,”  Mario Copca , a currency and fixed-income strategist at Metanalisis SA
in Mexico City, said in a telephone interview. U.S.
manufacturing data “is what most influences and affects us.”  Mounting concern about political wrangling over the U.S.
debt ceiling is also weighing on the peso, according to  Eduardo
Suarez , a Latin American currency strategist at Bank of Nova
Scotia in Toronto. President  Barack Obama  has vowed he won’t
negotiate over raising the U.S. debt ceiling as he offered to
consider separately the deficit cuts demanded by Republicans.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index fell to minus 7.8 in January from a revised minus 7.3 in
December. The median forecast of 54 economists in a Bloomberg
survey called for a reading of zero, which signals no change in
conditions. Readings of less than zero signal contraction in New
York, northern New Jersey and southern  Connecticut .  Germany ’s gross domestic product may have dropped as much
as 0.5 percent in the last three months of 2012 from the third
quarter, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today
in a preliminary estimate.  Yields on fixed-rated peso bonds due in 2024 fell four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 5.41 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price rose 0.39
centavo to 140.24 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  