-- ExxonMobil Knew in 1984 MTBE Would Contaminate Ground
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   S a r a h   E a r l e
-- 2013-01-15T19:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/exxonmobil-knew-in-1984-mtbe-would-contaminate-ground.html
ExxonMobil Corp. (XOM)  told a jury that a
gasoline additive to reduce air pollution never caused illness
to any resident of New Hampshire, which sued oil companies
claiming the chemical polluted its groundwater.  ExxonMobil and Citgo Petroleum Corp. made opening
statements today in a jury trial of an $816 million lawsuit in
which the state alleges the oil companies knew the chemical
would contaminate groundwater. The state court trial, which
began yesterday in Concord, pits the environmental claims
against assertions by companies that they were simply complying
with federal pollution standards.  It’s one of scores of cases involving the additive methyl
tertiary butyl ether, or MTBE, filed since 2000 against oil
refiners, fuel distributors and chemical makers.  “This is not a personal-injury case,” David Lender, a
lawyer for ExxonMobil, told the jury. “There’s not any evidence
that anyone ever got sick or got cancer from MTBE.” He said
there has been no gasoline sold in the state containing MTBE for
more than six years.  The state claimed that the  oil companies  knew that if they
added MTBE to gasoline it would increase the risk and costs
associated with contamination.  “Exxon decided to disregard the recommendation of its own
employees and put MTBE in gasoline,” Jessica Grant, a lawyer
for the state, told jurors yesterday. “In 1984, Exxon
anticipated that if it added MTBE to its gasoline, the number of
contamination incidents would triple. These incidents would take
longer to clean up and cost five times as much.” Each cleanup
at that time would have cost as much as $7 million, she said.  Federal Law  The companies said the federal  Clean Air Act  overrides the
state claims, and that by adding MTBE to gasoline, they were
complying with a U.S. mandate to supply cleaner-burning fuel.  Oil refiners began adding MTBE to gasoline in the 1970s to
replace lead. From 1995 to 2006, they increased the use of MTBE,
which boosts the fuel’s oxygen level, making it burn more
cleanly.  “We had no choice but to put oxygenates in our gasoline,”
Nate Eimer, a lawyer for Citgo, said today in his opening
statement. “Nothing worked better in cleaning the air than
MTBE.”  Keith Hylton, who teaches law and economics at  Boston
University  School of Law, said the oil companies are counting on
pre-emption, which turns on whether federal regulators “looked
at all the issues that the state would examine in a lawsuit.”  “The oil companies will say, ‘Federal law made us do that,
and that pre-empts any state lawsuit,’” Hylton said.  Exxon Lawyer  James Quinn, a lawyer for ExxonMobil, told the jury
yesterday that there were “great benefits to using MTBE but
there were downsides. All of these downsides were known to all
the folks involved.”  MTBE is produced by combining methanol, which is derived
from natural gas, and isobutylene, a byproduct of gasoline
refining. It can leak into the ground from gas stations,  storage
tanks  and auto junkyards.  It dissolves in water and doesn’t biodegrade, so it can be
carried with the water great distances from the site of a leak
or spill, according to court papers. The chemical is difficult
and expensive to find, treat and remove, according to filings.  According to New Hampshire case filings, MTBE can render
drinking water “foul, putrid and unfit for human consumption.”
The state said it petitioned the U.S.  Environmental Protection
Agency  in 2001 to get out of its reformulated-gasoline program
because of awareness of MTBE’s harmful effects. The additive has
been banned in the state since January 2007.  No Warning  “Despite knowing that MTBE posed a greater threat to
drinking water, they never posted a single warning,” Grant
said.  New Hampshire  sued ExxonMobil and Citgo in 2003 along with
Shell Oil Co., Sunoco Inc.,  ConocoPhillips (COP) , Irving Oil Ltd.,
Vitol SA and Hess Corp. All settled but Irving, Texas-based
ExxonMobil and Citgo, the Houston-based unit of  Venezuela ’s
state-owned oil company,  Petroleos de Venezuela SA . Shell and
Sunoco agreed to pay $35 million in an accord announced in
November.  New Hampshire said it has identified 228 sites that will
require cleanup from contamination by MTBE, which according to
court filings can cause cancer in animals. Tests in 2005 and
2006 found MTBE in 9.1 percent of private wells throughout the
state, it said.  New Hampshire is seeking $816 million to cover cleanup and
monitoring costs, Grant said, and it will ask for damages from
ExxonMobil and Citgo based on their market shares of gasoline
sold in the state during the time the suit covers.  Market Share  ExxonMobil’s market share was about 30 percent, she said.
That means the state will seek $245 million in damages from the
company. Citgo’s market share ranged from 3 percent to
8.7 percent.  Lender said today that ExxonMobil’s market share in New
Hampshire was only 6.1 percent during that time.  “The majority of the state’s damage claims are based on
computer models and projections, not on actual testing or
data,” Claire Hassett, an ExxonMobil spokeswoman, said by e-
mail.  The state said the oil companies could have used safer
additives, such as ethanol, and chose not to because MTBE is
inexpensive to produce.  “If they had an alternative product to use and the
alternative is just as good and avoids serious risk to
consumers, there’s a strong argument the defendants have failed
the risk-utility standard and can be held liable,” said Hylton,
of Boston University.  Short Supply  The oil companies said ethanol wasn’t in large enough
supply when an additive was being sought, and that it presents
its own environmental hazards.  ExxonMobil’s Hassett said the fault lies with whoever
spilled the chemically treated fuel.  “MTBE contamination has been found in New Hampshire
because someone spilled gasoline in New Hampshire, not because
it was added to gasoline in a refinery in another state,” she
said. “The state should be suing parties responsible for
spilling gasoline.”  The oil companies also said in court filings that a statute
of limitations should prevent the litigation from proceeding.
The state waited three years from the time it detected MTBE in
sites until it sued, they said.  Superior Court  Judge Peter Fauver in August rejected oil
company motions seeking judgment without a trial based on the
arguments they raised. Those issues can be brought up again for
the jury’s consideration.  Water Sources  In January 2011, the New Hampshire Supreme Court denied a
motion by the companies to decide the case in their favor and
sent it back to the Superior Court. The state’s highest court
said New Hampshire could seek damages for contamination of
nonpublic sources of water, such as wells, and public sources.  The New Hampshire case had been moved to federal court in
 New York , where other lawsuits have been consolidated for
pretrial evidence-gathering and motions before U.S. District
Judge Shira Scheindlin in  Manhattan . In 2007, the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in New York sent New Hampshire’s case back to the state
court there.  Scheindlin presided over the trial of  New York City ’s case
against ExxonMobil. In 2009, the jury in that case ordered
ExxonMobil to pay $104.7 million after finding it liable for
polluting wells in the city. ExxonMobil has appealed.  Consolidated Cases  The cases consolidated in New York may be tried separately
in courts around the U.S. if settlements aren’t reached. In the
New York litigation, the  New Jersey  Department of Environmental
Protection filed its fourth amended complaint in June. No date
has been set for a trial, which would probably take place in
federal court in New Jersey.  The New Hampshire trial may take more than four months,
lawyers said.  After the jury was dismissed yesterday, Citgo’s Eimer asked
the judge to declare a mistrial, claiming that the state’s
lawyer misrepresented a document as one of Citgo’s in her
remarks to the jury.  “There’s a long road ahead of us,” Fauver told the
lawyers. “This will all be clarified. I don’t think it warrants
a mistrial.”  The case is State of New Hampshire v.  Hess Corp. (HES) , 03-C-
0550, New Hampshire Superior Court, Merrimack County (Concord).
The federal cases are consolidated as In re MTBE Products
Liability Litigation, 00-11898, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Don Jeffrey in Concord, New Hampshire,
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Earle in Concord, New Hampshire,
at   sarah_earle@comcast.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 