-- Falabella Billionaires Surface With ‘Low Profile’ Fortune
-- B y   A l e x   C u a d r o s   a n d   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-01-15T20:28:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/falabella-billionaires-surface-with-low-profile-fortune.html
In 1889, the Italian immigrant
Salvatore Falabella started a tailor shop in Santiago,  Chile . It
wasn’t until the 1930s, when he was joined by Alberto Solari,
the husband of one of his granddaughters, that the business
expanded into women’s clothing and housewares.  Today, with a network of department stores, supermarkets
and home-improvement shops that span the Andean region, publicly
traded  SACI Falabella (FALAB)  is Chile’s largest company by market
value, generating $11.5 billion in annual sales.  The Solari family still controls about 63 percent of the
retailer through a web of holding companies, documents filed
with Chile’s securities regulator show. Together, they command a
combined net worth of at least $16.5 billion, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index . Seven of those heirs individually
hold 10-figure fortunes, and none has ever appeared on a major
international wealth ranking.  “They’re a very low-profile family, very simple,” said
Enrique Briceno, a spokesman for Falabella in Santiago, who
declined to comment on the family’s net worth. “They have no
interest in this sort of thing.”  Propelled by growing consumer demand, Falabella’s stock has
increased more than 17-fold since the company’s initial public
offering in 1996. Retail sales in Chile, the source of about
two-thirds of the operation’s revenue, climbed at an average
annual pace of 8.2 percent from 2007 through 2011.  Chile’s Richest  That growth has also lifted the fortune of Horst Paulmann,
the billionaire founder of retailer Cencosud SA, a Falabella
competitor. Paulmann’s net worth is valued at $5.5 billion,
according to the Bloomberg ranking. The richest person in Chile
is  Iris Fontbona , matriarch of the Luksic family, with a fortune
of $20.3 billion.  The Falabella family fortune is controlled through more
than two dozen entities. Their ownership structure is detailed
in annual reports filed on the website of Chile’s securities
regulator. Current Chairman Juan Cuneo Solari, a nephew of the
late Alberto Solari -- the man who married into the Falabella
family and diversified their product offering in the 1930s --
controls 12 percent of the company, including shares held in his
two daughters’ names. That gives him a fortune of at least $3.2
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Piero, Vice Chairman Carlo, and Chief Executive Officer
Sandro Solari Donaggio -- the sons of Alberto’s brother Reinaldo
-- share control of about 11 percent of the company, according
to the company’s  2011 annual report . Based on historical
dividends and market performance, they probably control a
combined investment portfolio of at least $125 million, giving
each brother a net worth of more than $1 billion, according to
the Bloomberg ranking.  Water Utility  Another cousin, Sergio Cardone Solari, owns 2.3 percent of
Falabella. That stake is valued at more than $600 million.  Alberto’s three daughters also own chunks of the company,
which has a market capitalization of $26.3 billion. Maria Luisa
Solari Falabella’s stake of at least 8.8 percent gives her a
fortune of $2.3 billion, while Teresa Matilde’s 12.2 percent
holding is valued at $3.2 billion. Liliana Maria owns 4 percent
of Falabella, valued at $1 billion, while her two children --
Carlos Alberto and Andrea Heller Solari -- together own another
4.5 percent, worth $1.2 billion.  Through holding company Bethia SA, Liliana and her children
also own a minority stake in publicly traded water utility  Aguas
Andinas SA (AGUAS/A) , valued at about $170 million. Their stakes in
publicly traded investment vehicles  Axxion SA (AXXO)  and  Axxdos SA (AXXDOS) ,
which own shares in Latam Airlines Group SA, are worth a
combined $550 million. Bethia additionally controls closely held
investments in agriculture, transportation, real estate and
wine, according to its website.  Home-Improvement Chain  The largest shareholders after the Solaris are members of
the del Rio Goudie family. They sold their chain of home-
improvement stores to Falabella in 2003 for a stake in the
company. Today, they control a combined 20 percent of the
shares. The $5.3 billion holding is split among seven family
members: Jose Luis, Barbara, Juan Pablo, Felipe, Ignacio,
Sebastian and Carolina del Rio Goudie.  After Alberto Solari’s forays into women’s clothing and
housewares, the family transformed Falabella into a department
store in 1958. They opened new locations in Santiago and
expanded into other cities over the decade that followed. In
1980, they started the CMR credit card for customers to use in
their stores. Falabella first struck out abroad in 1993, opening
a store in  Argentina , followed by Peru in 1995 and  Colombia  in
2006.  Shopping Malls  More than 4.2 million people use Falabella’s CMR card at
its 300 stores and shopping malls in the region, according to
the company’s website. The operation employs 80,000 workers.
Under Cuneo Solari, its billionaire chairman, Falabella plans to
invest $3.9 billion in the next four years to open more than 230
new stores and 20 new shopping malls by 2017, according to a
company statement earlier this month.  “The Solari family has enormous respect from its peers in
the Latin American retail industry,” said Jorge Becerra, senior
partner and managing director of  Boston Consulting Group  in
Chile. “They have a long term vision of where they want to
go.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net ;
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  