-- Fed’s Rosengren Sees Room to Expand QE to Spur Employment
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   S a r a   E i s e n
-- 2013-01-16T13:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/fed-s-rosengren-sees-more-qe-on-if-no-jobless-progress.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  said the Fed could expand its $85
billion monthly bond buying should record easing not make
progress in achieving  full employment  and stable prices.  “There is the capacity to enlarge it if that were to
become necessary,” Rosengren, 55, said yesterday in a telephone
interview with Bloomberg News.  Rosengren said in a Bloomberg Television interview today
that enlarging the program would require “a substantially
weaker economy than what we’re expecting now, so if we had a
significant shock from Europe or  China , if we ended up having a
very disruptive discussion in Washington.”  The Boston Fed chief becomes a voting member of the Federal
Open Market Committee this year as part of a rotation among Fed
regional presidents. He will lend his voice to a debate over
when to halt or shrink the $40 billion monthly purchases of
mortgage bonds and $45 billion monthly purchases of Treasuries
announced last year.  Asked if he worried about negative side effects from the
Fed’s asset purchases, Rosengren said: “I certainly worry about
the costs, and I also worry about the costs of having very high
unemployment rates for extended periods of time.”  Economic Growth  Minutes of the central bank’s most recent meeting showed
policy makers already debating when it would be appropriate to
halt purchases. “Several members” said it would be appropriate
to slow or stop purchases “well before the end of 2013” and a
“few” willing to let the program run to the end of the year.  Rosengren said it’s too early for policy makers to be
strategizing around the end of their policies.  “I think it’s premature to be talking about exit,” he
said today. “We need to get the economy to grow more quickly
right now.”  Fed presidents rotate voting on monetary policy, with
Rosengren scheduled to gain a voting seat at the Federal Open
Market Committee’s Jan. 29-30 meeting. Also joining the
committee will be Chicago’s Charles Evans, Kansas City’s Esther George and James Bullard of St. Louis.  Expanding on remarks made yesterday in a speech in
Providence, Rhode Island, Rosengren said he expects the economy
to strengthen in the second half of 2013 and he foresees the
unemployment rate declining to 7.25 percent to 7.5 percent by
the end of the year from 7.8 percent last month.  ‘Substantial Improvement’  “We want substantial improvement in the labor markets, so
getting the unemployment rate to decline by half a percent would
be a good time to take a hard look at all the various labor-
market indicators and make a determination of whether the
economy was growing rapidly enough” to halt the purchases, he
said.  If the economy doesn’t make that progress, Rosengren
suggested that rather than slow or stop purchases, the Fed would
have the option of enlarging them.  “We’re partly calibrating this on trying to get the
appropriate amount of stimulus without creating market
functioning problems,” he said. “Given the risks of market
functioning problems I think we’ve appropriately calibrated it
at this time, but if it became necessary to do more I think we
have some capacity to do that.”  Congress has given the Fed a mandate to achieve stable
prices and full employment. The Fed defines those goals as an
inflation rate of 2 percent and currently estimates the jobs
goal as an unemployment rate between 5.2 percent and 6 percent.  Little Progress  The Fed has made little progress on those goals in recent
months. The unemployment rate has been 7.8 percent in three of
the last four months, and the personal consumption expenditures
price index has been below 2 percent for eight consecutive
months.  In November, the 12-month rate of inflation fell to 1.4
percent. Excluding the volatile categories of food and energy,
the personal consumption expenditures index has not been above 2
percent since 2008.  Rosengren said it may take a significant change in the
outlook for the pace of purchases to be altered.  “The calibration of this tool is quite new, it’s very
difficult to fine-tune,” he said. “Unless we were seeing a
substantial change from what we were expecting, I would expect
we would wait to see either material improvement or the economy
doing materially worse than we expected, before we would think
about changing the guidelines.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Eisen in Boston at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  