-- Fed's Rosengren Backs Easing While Predicting 3% Growth
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-01-15T14:12:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/fed-s-rosengren-backs-easing-while-predicting-faster-growth.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  said the Fed should press on with
record accommodation even while he predicted economic growth
will speed up to 3 percent during the second half of this year.  “Continued monetary accommodation is absolutely
appropriate and indeed needed as long as we are projected to
miss on both elements of the Fed’s dual mandate, inflation and
employment,” Rosengren said today in remarks prepared for a
speech in Providence,  Rhode Island .  “Currently inflation is somewhat below our 2 percent
target, and unemployment is well above a longer-run sustainable
rate,” Rosengren told the Greater Providence Chamber of
Commerce.  Fed officials are considering how long they will keep
buying mortgage bonds and Treasuries as part of efforts to spur
growth and reduce a 7.8 percent unemployment rate. The Fed last
month linked its interest-rate outlook to economic thresholds,
saying borrowing costs will stay low “at least as long” as
joblessness exceeds 6.5 percent and if projected inflation won’t
go beyond 2.5 percent one or two years in the future.  Rosengren highlighted the central bank’s obligation to meet
its congressional mandate for stable prices and maximum
employment. The Fed deems 2 percent inflation and an
unemployment rate of 5.2 percent to 6 percent, as consistent
with those goals.  ‘Economic Outcomes’  While some Fed policy makers have suggested the bond-
purchase program should end sometime in 2013, Rosengren said
“monetary policy should be guided by current and future
economic outcomes, not calendar dates.”  The central bank has a number of tools to withdraw stimulus
when the economy is stronger, Rosengren said, responding to an
audience question.  “We’re not at that point now,” he said. “I don’t expect
to be at that point for most of this year.”  U.S. stock futures fell, indicating the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index will extend yesterday’s drop, as concern about talks
on raising the debt ceiling intensified and manufacturing in the
 New York  region contracted. S&P 500 futures expiring in March
fell 0.4 percent to 1,458.8 at 8:59 a.m. New York time.  Even as he called for continuing stimulus, Rosengren
offered an optimistic assessment of the economy, saying housing
and auto sales will rise this year because of the Fed’s low-
interest rate policies.  ‘Disruptive Ways’  “I expect growth in the second half of the year to be
closer to 3 percent -- assuming that headwinds from fiscal
imbalances around the world are not resolved in economically
disruptive ways,” he said. That makes the 55-year-old Boston
Fed chief’s forecast more optimistic than the median estimate in
a Bloomberg survey of economists, which projects growth of 2
percent in 2013.  Fed presidents rotate voting on monetary policy, with
Rosengren scheduled to gain a voting seat at the  Federal Open
Market Committee ’s Jan. 29-30 meeting. Also joining the
committee will be Chicago’s  Charles Evans ,  Kansas City ’s Esther George and  James Bullard  of  St. Louis .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Providence, Rhode Island at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  