-- Fitch Says Top AAA Sovereign Ratings Under Pressure in 2013
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-01-15T14:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/fitch-says-top-aaa-sovereign-ratings-under-pressure-in-2013-1-.html
Fitch Ratings  said its AAA credit
rankings on  France , the U.S. and the U.K. are likely to come
under pressure this year due to slow economic growth and high
debt levels.  The three nations, which all have a negative outlook from
the company, have seen gross domestic product struggle to
recover from the global financial crisis while debt levels have
increased amid efforts to spur growth. A failure of U.S.
lawmakers to raise the nation’s debt ceiling would prompt a
“formal review” of its  credit rating , Fitch said in a press
release today.  “Triple A sovereigns are under threat,” Ian Linnell,
Fitch’s analytical group manager, said at a briefing in  London 
as the company published its European Credit Outlook. “Debt-to-
GDP ratios are significantly high,” compared with previous
periods, he said. “In particular the U.S., France and the U.K.
all have negative outlooks, reflecting a combination of a
challenging fiscal position and low-to-negligible growth.”  The U.K. also holds top rankings from Moody’s Investors
Service and  Standard & Poor’s . The U.S. has an Aaa rating at
Moody’s and a second-highest rank of AA+ at S&P. France has
second-highest ratings at both Moody’s and S&P.  French Growth  The French economy will grow just 0.2 percent this year,
after expanding 0.1 percent in 2012, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of analysts. U.K. GDP will expand 1.1 percent,
versus a contraction of 0.1 percent in 2012, while U.S. growth
will slow to 2 percent from 2.3 percent, separate surveys show.  President  Barack Obama  said yesterday he won’t negotiate
over raising the debt ceiling. The president warned of economic
calamity and stalled payments to Social Security recipients,
military personnel and government creditors if congressional
Republicans fail to increase the $16.4 trillion debt limit.  The limit was periodically raised since its creation in
1917. Congress increased the debt ceiling to reflect the cost of
World War II, and lowered the level after the war ended. Since
1960, Congress has raised or revised the limit 79 times,
including 49 times under Republican presidents, according to the
Treasury Department.  The U.K. is starting from a weaker position than France,
because it has a higher fiscal deficit,  Tony Stringer , Fitch’s
managing director of global sovereigns, said at today’s
briefing. “The one area the U.K. is better off in is the growth
outlook. Growth appears to be a challenge for France.”  The U.K. economy will probably expand 1 percent this year
while France will grow 0.3 percent, Stringer said.  The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield fell three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 1.82 percent at 2:10 p.m. London time.
The rate on similar-maturity U.K. gilts dropped five basis
points to 1.99 percent, while France’s 10-year yields declined
three points to 2.12 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  