-- FM Global Says Bet on Stocks With No Upside Left in Bonds
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-01-15T18:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/fm-global-says-bet-on-stocks-with-no-upside-left-in-bonds.html
Shivan Subramaniam, the chief
executive officer of policyholder-owned commercial insurer FM
Global, said there’s little room for gains in bonds after a
multiyear rally, making stocks the more attractive investment.  “There’s no more upside left” for fixed-income holdings,
Subramaniam, 63, said in an interview today in  New York . “We
fully expect to be fully invested on the equity side. That’s
where we think the long-term opportunities are.”  FM Global invests a portfolio of more than $10 billion to
back obligations on policies that guard against property losses
and business interruption for corporate clients. The Johnston,
Rhode Island-based insurer holds about 45 percent of its assets
in stocks and counted Apple Inc., Exxon Mobil Corp., Chevron
Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. among its largest holdings as of
Sept. 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. bonds have returned 5.7 percent annually for the past
five years through yesterday, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Index data. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained
3 percent annually in the same period including dividends.  Five-year U.S. government bonds  yield 0.74 percent, down
from 2 percent at the end of 2010. Bond prices rise as yields
decline. FM Global maintains a bond duration of about 4 years to
reduce risks from rising interest rates, Subramaniam said.  “You’ve got to be careful with what you hold,” the CEO
said. “I don’t think there’s any magic bullet right now.”  Falling bond yields means underwriters need to be more
careful about charging insurance prices that are adequate to
cover the risks they take on, Subramaniam said. When bond
returns are higher, insurers can rely on investment results to
post a profit, even when claims costs and expenses exceed
premium revenue.  “The underwriting side needs to do even better than
before,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  