-- Ford CEO Says He’s ‘Disappointed’ With Escape SUV Recalls
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2013-01-15T23:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/ford-ceo-says-he-s-disappointed-with-escape-suv-recalls.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s struggles to meet
growing demand and introduce new engine technologies contributed
to four recalls on its redesigned Escape sport-utility vehicle
last year, Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  said yesterday.  “We’re very disappointed that happened on a fantastic new
vehicle,” Mulally told reporters after a speech at the
Automotive News World Congress in  Detroit . “This is a company
that’s going up in production for the first time in years.”  Mulally, 67, made quality a cornerstone of his turnaround
plan for the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker. The 2013
Escape, Ford’s top-selling SUV, has been recalled four times
since it was introduced in May. The new Fusion sedan has had two
recalls since its October debut.  Ford “learned from every one” of the Escape recalls,
which were caused by both technical and manufacturing issues,
Mulally said. The company can now better fix glitches in
advanced engines that use direct injection and turbo charging to
improve fuel economy, he said.  “You do all the testing and all the analytical work and
you learn that there were a couple of modes in there that we
didn’t anticipate,” Mulally said. “So we have added that into
our procedures so we’ll catch them the next time. They’re very
sophisticated products.”  Sales of the Escape and Fusion were “adversely affected”
in December by recalls,  Ken Czubay , Ford’s U.S. sales chief,
said on a Jan. 3 conference call. Deliveries of the Escape fell
21 percent for the month to 20,131.  Honda Motor Co.’s CR-V reclaimed the top spot among SUVs
from Ford’s Escape last year in the U.S. Deliveries of Tokyo-
based Honda’s CR-V surged 29 percent to 281,652, while Ford’s
Escape climbed 2.6 percent to 261,008.  Ford rose 2.2 percent to $14.30 yesterday in  New York , the
highest closing price since May 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Detroit at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  