-- Former Sirius XM Head Karmazin Says He Wants to Be CEO Again
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-01-15T21:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/former-sirius-xm-head-mel-karmazin-says-he-wants-to-be-ceo-again.html
Former  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI)  Chief
Executive Officer Mel Karmazin, who left last year after  Liberty
Media Corp. (LMCAD)  announced plans to take control of the company, said
he wants to run another media organization.  Karmazin, 69, is in his “second retirement” following an
earlier break from corporate leadership in 2004, and he plans to
have a third, he said during a CNBC interview today. He said
he’s looking for a public company with an independent board and
hasn’t found an opportunity that suits him yet.  Karmazin would like to be in a role with control similar to
Time Warner Inc. CEO  Jeff Bewkes  or Walt Disney Co. CEO Bob Iger, although at a smaller company with more “turnaround”
opportunities, he said. Karmazin was the CEO of CBS Radio Inc.
and the president of Viacom Inc. until June 2004. He quit after
years of tension with Viacom’s then-CEO, Sumner Redstone.  Karmazin joined New York-based Sirius later that year and
presided over its  merger  with XM Satellite Radio in 2008. Months
after the deal, on the brink of bankruptcy, Sirius accepted a
$530 million loan from Liberty Media Chairman  John Malone ,
giving Liberty a 40 percent stake in the company.  Liberty has built that stake to just under 50 percent and
has said it plans to take majority control. Karmazin quit in
October instead of working for billionaire Malone.  Sirius shares  gained  59 percent last year as auto sales
recovered. Sirius radios come pre-installed in about two-thirds
of new cars. Sirius named James E. Meyer as interim CEO in
December.  Karmazin may contact New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  to
offer help rebuilding the Jersey Shore from  Hurricane Sandy ’s
damage if he can’t find another media job, he said.  Sirius fell less than 1 percent to $3.14 at the close in
New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  