-- France Tax Probe Into Google Enters Final Stages, Minister Says
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-01-15T16:07:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/france-tax-probe-into-google-enters-final-stages-minister-says.html
France’s inquiry into  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
tax affairs is coming to an end and the results may be announced
within the next six months, Technology Minister Fleur Pellerin
said today.  “It appears that Google, Facebook or others, who are
located in France, are not submitted to the same conditions, as
far as tax and VAT are concerned, as the French players,”
Pellerin said in an interview with Bloomberg TV at the Paris-
based Finance Ministry. “That doesn’t set the right conditions
for a fair competition.”  The investigation into Google started two years ago,
according to Pellerin. Meanwhile, France is also weighing
options to align the taxes on multinational Internet giants such
as Google,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  with those imposed
on local companies.  In what may be  Europe ’s first such effort, President
Francois Hollande’s government has said it will look into
changing laws this year to prevent online companies from paying
levies on French earnings in European countries with lower tax
rates. The government is also considering options for common
European value-added taxes on sales.  French officials have said Google, Amazon,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
Facebook are able to sell to French consumers while not paying
the 19.6 percent French VAT. Instead, they pay lower rates in
Luxembourg or Ireland, where they have their European Union
headquarters.  A French Senate report cited a study showing that Google
pays an effective tax rate of 2 percent to 3 percent.  “Google complies with tax law in every country in which it
operates and we are confident we comply with French law,” Anne-
Gabrielle Dauba-Pantanacce, a representative for Google in
Paris, said in an e-mailed statement on behalf of the company.
“We cooperate with local authorities and work with them in
order to answer all their questions on Google  France  and our
services.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Connan in London at 
 cconnan@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  