-- French Strikes Continue in Mali Islamists Claim Control
-- B y   D i a k a r i d i a   D e m b e l e
-- 2013-01-15T13:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/french-strikes-continue-in-mali-islamists-claim-control.html
French airstrikes on Islamist-held
areas of  Mali  continued as the militant groups said they were
still in control of key northern areas including the historic
trading city of Timbuktu.  Military forces were trying to regain control of Diabaly, a
town about 415 kilometers (258 miles) northeast of the capital,
Bamako, which was overrun by the insurgents yesterday, Mali army
spokesman Colonel Diarran Kone said by phone today.  “Operations are in progress to dislodge them,” he said.
The fighters are “panicked and are in disarray.”  The French army started airstrikes on Jan. 11 to oust
Islamist rebels who took control of much of northern Mali last
year. The fighting has prompted hundreds to flee to neighboring
countries and cities in the south, according to the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.  The Islamists retained control of cities where the French
were attacking, Oumar Hamaha, a spokesman for the fighters, said
by phone today.  “We are still in Kona, Diabaly, Gao and other northern
regions,” he said. “ France  said we are not here. If true we
invite them to come on the ground to see if we are not here. We
invite the Malian army and Ecowas troops to come find us.”  ‘Difficult’ Mission  West African defense chiefs met in Bamako today as
countries including  Ghana ,  Togo ,  Guinea ,  Senegal , Burkina Faso,
 Benin  and Nigeria pledged to send troops to the regional
mission.  “It’s going to be difficult,” Major-General Shehu
Abdulkadir, the Nigerian head of the regional force, told
reporters. “Once the planning is properly conducted and you
have the logistics support that you require, I believe it’s not
an insurmountable problem.”  The African Union’s Peace and Security Council
“acknowledged the assistance provided by France” and called on
regional countries to quickly fulfill promises made to send
troops to Mali in a statement on its website today.  The landlocked nation vies with Tanzania as  Africa ’s third-
biggest gold producer. At least 13 international companies were
engaged in gold exploration and production in Mali in 2010,
according to a U.S. Geological Survey Report. Output of the
metal for the country was 36,344 kilograms the same year.  Instability  The rebels exploited political instability in Bamako after
a March coup to seize control of the north. While the insurgents
include Islamists such as Ansar ud-Din and al-Qaeda’s north
African unit, there are also ethnic Touareg fighters seeking
greater autonomy in the region.  Mali is now led by interim President Dioncounda Traore and
Prime Minister Diango Cissoko, who was appointed last month
after the leader of a coup in March, Captain Amadou Sanogo,
forced Cheick Modibo Diarra to resign.  The country ranks 175th out of 187 nations on the United
Nations’ Human Development Index, which measures indicators
including literacy, income and gender equality.  Its $10.6 billion economy contracted 4.5 percent last year
and is forecast to expand 3 percent in 2013, according to the
International Monetary Fund, slower than the sub-Saharan African
outlook of 5.25 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diakaridia Dembele in Bamako at 
 ddembele@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  