-- French Police Monitoring Militants Seeking to Join Mali Rebels
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-01-15T10:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/french-police-monitoring-militants-seeking-to-join-mali-rebels.html
French police are stepping up their
surveillance of young radicals tempted to join militants in West
 Africa , Interior Minister Manuel Valls said.  The heightened surveillance is among the measures taken by
authorities since France Jan. 11 began air attacks against
rebels in Northern Mali. While keeping the terror alert level
unchanged, French police have stepped up patrols at train
stations, airports,  religious sites and tourist attractions
such as the Eiffel Tower.  “We are surveilling individuals trying to reach  Syria ,
 Afghanistan , and the obviously the Sahel,” Valls said today on
RMC Radio, using the term for the arid strip running along the
Southern rim of the Sahara desert. “We must be prudent, but
what I want to assure the French is that the greatest vigilance
should allow us to avoid attacks on our soil.”  Leaders of jihadist groups in northern  Mali  have threatened
to hit France itself after the French air force and army
intervened on the side of Malian government forces to repel a
rebel offensive. France’s intervention opened “the gates of
hell,” Oumar Hamaha, a militant leader known as the “Red
Beard” for his hennaed facial hair, told French radio station
Europe 1 yesterday.  European and U.S. policy makers have expressed concern that
northern Mali may become an Islamist militant base and
destabilize regional states from Nigeria to  Algeria .  “Allowing a terrorist state to establish itself in Mali
was simply unacceptable,” Valls said today.  For the moment, any revenge attacks are more likely in
Africa, said Louis Caprioli, the former head of DST, France’s
former anti-terrorism unit. Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, or
AQMI, is holding four Frenchmen kidnapped in 2010 from a mine
operated by state-controlled nuclear company  Areva SA (AREVA)  in
neighboring  Niger .  Regional Risk  “I don’t see AQMI themselves launching attacks in
France,” said Caprioli, who now advises Paris-based security
company Geos. “They run around in their four-by-fours in the
desert and they haven’t set up training camps like we saw in
Afghanistan, Pakistan or Yemen. The real risk is in the region.
One can certainly see a risk for French interests throughout
West Africa.”  Valls said there hadn’t been any recent arrests linked to
the situation in Mali, but that police were surveilling known
militants and websites.  Marc Trevidic, an investigative magistrate specialized in
terrorism, said in an interview with Le Parisien that two French
AQMI members in Timbuktu, Mali, had issued a call for their
“brothers” in  France  to join them, and that four people are
under investigation for trying to go.  Caprioli said there’s also the risk of an attack by
individuals acting on their own, having found a new cause.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  