-- Gasoline Declines on Estimate Inventories Rose Amid Low Demand
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2013-01-15T16:51:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/gasoline-declines-as-u-s-inventories-projected-to-increase.html
Gasoline fell on speculation that
U.S. inventories rose an eighth consecutive week amid seasonally
low demand.  Futures sank as stockpiles probably rose 2.6 million
barrels, according to the median estimate of 10 analysts in a
survey by Bloomberg. Demand for the motor fuel slipped to the
lowest level in almost a year in the week ended Jan. 4, Energy
Department data show.  “Gasoline inventories have risen so substantially over the
last three months that the market remains under pressure, as
demand in January and February is traditionally the weakest of
the year,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates
LLC in Houston.  Gasoline for February delivery fell 2.54 cents, or 0.9
percent, to $2.7287 a gallon at 11:34 a.m. on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange. Volume was 23 percent above the 100-day
average.  The Energy Department’s Energy Information Administration
is scheduled to report last week’s supplies at 10:30 a.m.
tomorrow in Washington.U.S. gasoline stockpiles were the highest
since February 2011 in the week ended Jan. 4, according to EIA
data.  Prices also slipped as President  Barack Obama  and
congressional Republicans appear headed toward a confrontation
over the raising the debt limit to keep the government running.  The Treasury reached its statutory borrowing limit on Dec.
31 and is using “extraordinary” measures to pay for the
government. Those measures will work only until mid-February to
early March,  Treasury Secretary   Timothy F. Geithner  said in a
letter yesterday to congressional leaders.  Severe Hardship  Geithner warned of severe economic hardship if Congress
doesn’t raise the limit, which has been lifted 79 times since
1960, including 49 times under Republican administrations.  “The crisis that will happen if we don’t get the debt
ceiling raised and warnings by the Treasury secretary have
inflamed the market,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and
broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We also
have anemic fuel demand.”  Heating oil’s decline was less than gasoline as crude oil
slipped and colder weather in the U.S. may boost demand for the
fuel and higher gasoil prices in Europe will attract distillate
shipments.  The  National Weather Service ’s Climate Prediction Center
estimated temperatures will be lower than normal across the
Northeast from Jan. 20 through Jan. 28.  “Heating oil is just supported by the colder weather,”
Lipow said.  Heating oil for February delivery fell 1.63 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $3.0462 a gallon after touching $3.0774.  Distillate inventories probably rose 1.5 million barrels
last week, according to the survey.  Gasoil rallied in Europe as the cold deepened across the
continent, with the February contract gaining $5 to $959.50 a
metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  The average nationwide  retail price  for regular gasoline
fell 0.7 cent to $3.297 a gallon, AAA said today on its website.
That’s the fourth consecutive decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  