-- German Stocks Slide as Economy Contracts; SAP Sinks
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-01-15T17:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/german-stocks-are-little-changed-as-economy-contracts.html
German stocks  tumbled the most in
two months as  Europe ’s biggest economy contracted in the final
quarter of 2012 amid the sovereign-debt crisis and cooling
export demand.  SAP AG (SAP)  sank the most in six months as the world’s largest
maker of business-management software reported earnings that
missed projections.  RWE AG (RWE)  fell 3.1 percent as JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Exane BNP Paribas downgraded the shares.  Infineon
Technologies AG (IFX)  climbed 2.3 percent as Exane recommended
Europe’s second-largest semiconductor manufacturer.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  dropped 0.7 percent to 7,675.91 at the close
of trading in  Frankfurt , the biggest decline since Nov. 16. The
measure has still gained 0.8 percent this year as U.S. lawmakers
agreed on a compromise budget to prevent most scheduled tax
increases and delay spending cuts. The broader HDAX Index also
retreated 0.7 percent today.  “There is a little bit of disappointment because of the
GDP figures,”  Robert Halver , head of capital markets research
at Baader Bank AG in Frankfurt, said in a telephone interview.
“The fourth quarter of 2012 should be the only one showing
negative growth, with the following quarters showing better
figures of economic activity. This is just a negative blink, not
a sustainable trend.”  The volume of shares changing hands on the DAX was 26
percent higher than the average of the last 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Economy Contracts  German fourth-quarter  gross domestic product  may have
dropped as much as 0.5 percent from the previous period, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today in a
preliminary estimate. In 2012, growth slowed to 0.7 percent from
3 percent in 2011, it said. Economists had forecast expansion of
0.8 percent for last year, according to the median of 28
estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey .  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said so-called
extraordinary measures he’s taking to avoid breaching the debt
ceiling would work only until mid-February to early March and
warned that failure by Congress to raise the limit could
“impose severe economic hardship” on the country.  President  Barack Obama  at a news conference yesterday vowed
he won’t negotiate over raising the government’s debt ceiling
while offering to deal on a separate track with the deficit
reduction demanded by Republicans. Obama warned of economic
calamity if the $16.4 trillion borrowing limit isn’t lifted.  SAP tumbled 3.9 percent to 58.70 euros, the biggest drop
since July 6. The company said fourth-quarter operating profit
excluding some items rose about 10 percent to 1.96 billion euros
($2.61 billion), missing the 2 billion-euro average of analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  RWE Drops  RWE fell 3.1 percent to 28.77 euros, a seven-month low.
JPMorgan cut Germany’s second-biggest utility to underweight,
the equivalent of sell, from neutral, citing a deteriorating
earnings outlook and high levels of debt.  Exane downgraded the shares to neutral from outperform,
saying the growing trend for  energy efficiency  will have a
negative effect on hard-coal generation.  EON SE dropped 1.5 percent to 13.99 euros, the lowest price
in a month. The company sold a 24.5 percent stake in Slovensky
Plynarensky Priemysel AS to Energeticky & Prumyslovy Holding AS,
the second-largest Czech utility that’s co-owned by billionaire
 Petr Kellner , for 1.3 billion euros.  Salzgitter AG (SZG) , Germany’s second-biggest steelmaker,
retreated 2.3 percent to 36.44 euros, a fourth day of losses.
Deutsche Bank AG downgraded the stock to hold from buy.  Infineon advanced 2.3 percent to 6.64 euros, snapping two
days of declines, as the stock was raised to outperform from
neutral at Exane.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  