-- Goldman Is Said to Refrain From Delaying U.K. Bonus Payouts
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2013-01-15T18:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/goldman-said-to-refrain-from-delaying-u-k-bonus-distributions.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  won’t delay
distribution of U.K. bonuses to help minimize employees’ tax
rates, a person with direct knowledge of the decision said.  The firm had considered postponing incentive compensation
due to employees from 2009, 2010 and 2011 until after top
income-tax rates drop in April. Bank of England Governor Mervyn King said today it’s “depressing” that banks may be willing to
shift bonus payments to minimize workers’ tax burden.  U.K. Treasury minister Sajid Javid spoke with Goldman Sachs
representatives today, according to a person with knowledge of
the discussion. They gave assurances that bonuses would be paid
in the normal way and that there would be no changes to the
schedule. The call was set up yesterday, said the person, who
requested anonymity because the discussion was private.  Goldman Sachs accelerated delivery of $65 million in stock
awards last month to 10 executives, including Chief Executive
Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, in a move that helped them avoid
higher U.S. taxes that take effect this year. That change, which
didn’t affect compensation for 2012, was made public in company
filings at about 8 p.m.  New York  time on Dec. 31.  This week, the Financial Times and other media reported
that New York-based Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank
by assets, was reviewing whether to delay U.K. bonus payments
due from prior years to help employees pay lower rates. The
reports were met with criticism from U.K. politicians and King.  Management opted against proceeding with the plan, a
decision that was ratified today in a regular meeting of the
board’s compensation committee, said the person with knowledge
of the decision.  British Broadcasting Corp. editor Robert Peston reported
Goldman Sachs’s decision earlier today on Twitter.com.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  