-- Greenberg’s Starr Hires Hayman From AIG to Expand in Asia
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-01-16T00:55:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/greenberg-s-starr-hires-aig-s-hayman-for-international-insurance.html
Maurice “Hank” Greenberg’s Starr
International Co. named Jeffrey Hayman as president of
international insurance operations as the company looks to
expand in Asia.  Hayman previously led global consumer insurance at  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s property-casualty unit. He has worked
in the U.S. and Asia and is a director of the Korea Society and
the Japan Society, Starr said yesterday in a statement.  Hayman’s “experience, particularly in Asia, is a unique
fit for our organization,” Greenberg said in the statement.
“We expect that he will contribute to our continued growth in
the international marketplace.”  Greenberg, 87, has built Starr’s business in Asia since
leaving AIG, the firm he led for almost four decades through
2005 and built into the world’s largest insurer. He said last
year that the region offers investment opportunities.  Greenberg has looked to hire from his former firm in the
past. Starr named Charles Dangelo chief executive officer and
Jim Vendetti chief underwriting officer of its subsidiary, Starr
Indemnity & Liability, after AIG’s 2008 U.S. government rescue.  Hayman received a bachelor’s degree in economics and
political science from Saint Olaf College in  Minnesota  and a
master’s of business administration from the University of
Hartford in  Connecticut , according to the statement.  Peter Hancock, who leads AIG’s property-casualty business,
will oversee consumer operations until Hayman’s successor is
named, Jon Diat, an AIG spokesman, wrote in an e-mail. AIG
repaid the remainder of its government bailout last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  