-- Guggenheim Hires Yahoo’s Levinsohn as Media Unit CEO
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-01-15T17:35:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/guggenheim-hires-yahoo-s-levinsohn-as-media-unit-ceo.html
Guggenheim Partners LLC, the $160
billion asset-management firm that owns a stake in the Los
Angeles Dodgers, hired  Ross Levinsohn  to oversee a newly formed
digital media unit.  Levinsohn, who served as interim chief executive officer of
 Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , will head Guggenheim Digital Media, which will
acquire and invest in new media companies, according to a
 statement  today from the the Chicago and New York-based firm.
Guggenheim Digital Media will also oversee and operate the
Prometheus Global Media assets Guggenheim controls, such as
Billboard and the Hollywood Reporter, and further develop Dick
Clark Productions, according to the statement.  “GDM has a powerful and competitive portfolio of iconic
media assets today, and I look forward to identifying new
opportunities for growth as the media and technology industries
continue to rapidly evolve,” Levinsohn said in the statement.  In addition to the $2.15 billion purchase of the Dodgers by
Guggenheim Baseball Management announced in March, Guggenheim in
September agreed to buy Dick Clark Productions, which produces
“New Year’s Rockin’ Eve” and “The Golden Globes,” along with
Mandalay Entertainment and Mosaic Media Investment Partners LLC.
Guggenheim’s talks to buy three of Deutsche Bank AG’s four
money-management units, which would have more than quintupled
its assets, fell apart last year.  Levinsohn’s Background  Levinsohn joined Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo in 2010
as executive vice president of the Americas, before overseeing
all aspects of Yahoo’s digital media business. He was named
interim CEO in May, a role he held for about two months until
 Marissa Mayer  was named CEO. Under his brief tenure, Levinsohn
resolved a patent dispute with Facebook Inc. and worked out the
final details of a plan for Chinese e-commerce provider Alibaba
Group Holding Ltd. to buy back a stake in itself.  Guggenheim’s CEO,  Mark Walter , brought in  Alan Schwartz ,
former CEO of Bear Stearns Cos., in 2009 as executive chairman
to help the firm expand businesses including full-service
investment banking. Last year, Henry Silverman, former chief
operating officer of  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , joined as
vice chairman to advise on expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  