-- Gulf Air to Cut Jobs, Fleet in Bid to Survive Emirates Onslaught
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-01-15T18:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/gulf-air-to-cut-jobs-fleet-in-bid-to-survive-emirates-onslaught.html
Gulf Air, once the Middle East’s
biggest carrier, will cut planes and jobs after quitting eight
routes to focus on providing regional flights in the face of
competition from Emirates, Etihad Airways and Qatar Airways Ltd.  The revamp will seek a 24 percent cost saving by the end of
2013 as the Bahrain carrier stops targeting transfer traffic, a
market dominated by the big three Persian Gulf airlines, to
concentrate on local point-to-point services, it said today.  “All cost elements of the business will be rationalized,”
Gulf Air said in a statement, adding that the size of the
workforce “will be aligned to meet the operational, maintenance
and administrative needs of the revised fleet and network.”  Gulf Air has been working on plans to secure its long-term
viability after the government told the unprofitable state-owned
carrier to shrink its operations or face shutdown. Chief
Executive Officer Samer Majali resigned in November after the
appointment of a new board, and the company reduced its order
for  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 long-range aircraft and switched a contract
for Airbus SAS A330 wide-bodies to smaller A320-series models.  Gulf Air’s reduced network will serve selected markets in
 Europe , East Asia and  India , as well as the Middle East, the
carrier said. Sales per available seat kilometer should grow 9
percent this year through improved revenue management and
frequency adjustments, as well as the route cuts, it said.  The revamp’s aim is “minimizing losses,” and the Manama-
based carrier, founded in 1950, is still regarded as a key
national infrastructure asset, Sheikh Khalid bin Abdalla Al Khalifa, Bahrain’s deputy prime minister, said in the statement.  The order revision announced Nov. 12 will pare Gulf Air’s
long-term financial liability of about $5 billion by more than
half, it said at the time. The carrier currently serves 42
cities in 29 countries with a fleet of 38 aircraft.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  