-- Li Ka-Shing’s CKI to Buy New Zealand Firm for $421 Million
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-01-15T04:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/li-ka-shing-s-cki-to-buy-new-zealand-waste-firm-for-422-million.html
Billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s  Cheung
Kong Infrastructure (1038)  Holdings Ltd. will buy New Zealand waste
company EnviroWaste for NZ$501 million ($421 million), the Hong
Kong-based company’s third purchase in the past four months.  Ironbridge Capital Pty Ltd. will sell the company to Cheung
Kong Infrastructure, known as CKI, subject to regulatory
approvals, the Australian private equity firm said in a
statement. Ironbridge paid NZ$259 million in 2007 for
EnviroWaste, the second-largest waste services business in New
Zealand, according to the buyout firm’s website.  The acquisition adds to utilities and infrastructure
purchases Li has made in markets including  Europe  in the past
three years. In July, he agreed to pay 645 million pounds ($1
billion) for Wales & West Utilities Ltd. in the U.K. and was
involved in the acquisitions of Northumbrian Water Group Plc in
2011 and Electricite de France SA’s U.K. power networks the
previous year.  “Waste management provides good opportunity for future
growth,” CKI Group Managing Director Kam Hing Lam said in a
separate statement. “It’s expected that New Zealand will
experience long-term waste volume growth as the economy
continues to expand.”  CKI has about HK$5 billion ($645 million) of cash and
“will continue to explore acquisition opportunities,” Kam said.
It already owns New Zealand distributor  Wellington Electricity
Lines Ltd  with Power Assets Holdings Ltd., a company also
controlled by Li.  Waste Manager  EnviroWaste serves about half a million customers in New
Zealand, according to CKI. It owns and manages waste collection
facilities, transfer stations and landfills, as well as
ancillary services such as bulk waste haulage and landfill gas-
to-electricity generation.  The sale values EnviroWaste at 10 times earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization for the year
through June 2012 and includes NZ$11 million of debt, according
to the statement.  Ironbridge has made 17 “bolt-on” acquisitions since its
original investment in EnviroWaste, according to the release.  EnviroWaste  is “well-placed” to “expand its operations
under the ownership of CKI,” EnviroWaste Chairman Kim Ellis
said in the statement. Its management team will remain.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net 
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  