-- Li’s Urban Planning Sends Invesco Into Machinery Stocks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-16T07:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/li-s-urban-planning-drives-sends-invesco-into-machinery-stocks.html
China ’s move to develop urban areas
is luring Invesco Great Wall Fund Management Co. and Harvest
Fund Management Co. to  industrial stocks  that are trading at an
11 percent premium to the benchmark index.  Yu Guang, who manages the $350 million Invesco Great Wall
Energy fund, and Zhang Tao, who oversees the $480 million
Harvest Research Selective Equity fund, are buying construction
machinery stocks and railway companies. Shi Wei, who oversees
the $302 million Bank of Communications Schroder Pioneer Fund,
said cement companies will benefit from urbanization. Their
funds beat at least 92 percent of rivals in the past 12 months,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  A gauge of  industrial companies  in the  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  had
rallied 20 percent since Dec. 4, trailing the 22 percent advance
in the benchmark measure, when the official Xinhua News Agency
cited the nation’s new leaders as saying they would promote
urban development. Urbanization is a “huge engine” of China’s
future growth,  Li Keqiang , poised to succeed  Wen Jiabao  as
premier in March, wrote in a full-page article in the People’s
Daily on Nov. 21.  “There are a lot of expectations for reforms and
urbanization,” Invesco’s Yu said by phone yesterday. “I am
optimistic about China’s stocks.”  Li is among a new generation of Chinese leaders headed by
 Xi Jinping  that is due to take power in two months. Urbanization
is expected to spur 40 trillion  yuan  ($6.4 trillion) of
investment by 2020, the Southern Metropolis Daily reported Dec.
25, citing a draft plan by the National Development and Reform
Commission, the nation’s top economic planner.  Railway Shares  A gauge of 60 industrial companies in the CSI 300, which
includes rail stocks, traded at 15.6 times reported earnings on
Jan. 3, the highest level since August 2011, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The  ratio  was at 14.4 yesterday, while the
average multiple for companies on the CSI 300 was at 13.02.  Yu said investors should buy construction machinery and
railway-related companies as urban development will require
improvements in transport systems and lead to increased rail
demand. The  fund manager , based in the southern Chinese city of
Shenzhen, declined to name specific stocks he was buying.  China Railway Group Ltd. (601390)  and China Railway Construction
Corp., the nation’s two biggest rail and metro line builders,
have surged at least 29 percent in  Shanghai  trading in the past
three months. China Railway trades at 10.6 times estimated
profit, while Railway Construction’s trades at a multiple of
9.7, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Environmental Protection  China will support the development of environmentally
friendly urban transport systems and offer tax breaks and fuel
subsidies for mass transit vehicles, according to a statement by
the State Council, or cabinet, on Jan. 5. Li called on Chinese
citizens yesterday to have patience as authorities work to
reduce record levels of pollution in Beijing.  Sany Heavy Industry Co. (600031) , China’s biggest machinery maker,
has rallied 36 percent since Dec. 3, when valuations hit a
record low of 8.5 times profit. It now trades at a multiple of
11.5, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Production, construction, consumption cannot come at the
price of hurting the environment,” Li said in comments
broadcast by state radio yesterday.  Government Initiatives  Industrial shares have also benefited from a rally in
Chinese stocks amid signs of a pick-up in the economy. Data
released on Jan. 10 showed exports rose more than forecast last
month, while a broad measure of credit surged 28 percent. Gross
domestic product may grow 8.1 percent this year after expanding
an estimated 7.7 percent in 2012, the slowest pace since 1999,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  The CSI 300, which tracks yuan-denominated A shares in
Shanghai and Shenzhen, rallied from the lowest level in almost
four years on Dec. 3. The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) ,
which rose 3.2 percent last year, had climbed 19 percent since
last month’s nadir. The Shanghai gauge dropped 0.8 percent to
close at 2,306.73 today.  “I am more optimistic about A shares” this year,
Harvest’s Zhang said by phone yesterday. “There may be
opportunities in industries with government-led initiatives,
such as railway and construction machinery.”  Investors should avoid construction machinery companies as
China’s new leaders will seek to focus the economy on growth
driven by  consumer spending  rather than fixed-asset investment,
Julian Bu, head of China industrials at Jefferies Group Inc. in
Hong Kong, wrote in a Jan. 14 report. Auto stocks are a better
investment as consumption growth will accelerate, Bu wrote.  Safety Net  A measure of consumer-discretionary companies in the CSI
300 Index, which includes automakers, has risen 3.1 percent this
year. It climbed 7.2 percent in 2012, the third-best  performance 
of 10 industry groups. The gauge trades for 11.6 times estimated
profit, compared with a five-year average of 18.4.  “I’m not sure this phase of urbanization is necessarily
about massive infrastructure growth,” Matthew Sutherland,
senior investment director for equities at Fidelity Worldwide
Investment, said in a Jan. 9 interview from  Hong Kong . “It’s
more about social changes, a social safety net to encourage
people living in the cities to spend more.”  As many as 300 million people will move from the
countryside by 2030, to join 600 million already living in
cities, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development estimates. Urban development should add more
consumers to urban areas in China, which will require more
infrastructure, services and other  consumer goods , according to
a Barclays Plc report dated Jan. 4.  March Meeting  The government’s plan to move more people to cities and
improve public transport “will boost investment and consumption
greatly,” BoCom’s Shi said in a phone interview today from
Shanghai. “The cement, machinery and property sectors will
benefit.”  Anhui Conch Cement Co., China’s largest producer of the
building material, had rallied 18 percent in the past two
months. It traded at 15.9 times reported profit on Jan. 7, the
highest level since June 2011.  Harvest’s Zhang is looking to the annual meeting of the
nation’s legislature in March for economic targets and more
specifics on the new leadership’s urban development policies.
China will boost rural incomes and public services to help
narrow the divide with  urban  areas, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported on Dec. 22.  “There’s a high chance the economy will bottom and the
leadership transfer would have been completed,” Harvest’s Zhang
said. Stocks “will do better” this year than in 2012, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  