-- ICG Raises $3.3 Billion for European Mezzanine Loan Fund
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2013-01-15T09:58:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/icg-raises-3-3-billion-for-european-mezzanine-loan-investments.html
Intermediate Capital Group Plc (ICP) 
raised its largest-ever fund, a 2.5 billion-euro ($3.3 billion)
pool of money to invest in European mezzanine loans.  The U.K. money manager has taken advantage of growing
demand from institutional investors for debt from mid-sized
companies as the region’s banks cut lending to such firms,
Benoit Durteste, ICG’s London-based head of mezzanine, said in a
telephone interview.  “The banks and fund-of-funds that were heavily invested in
the space have retreated, with pension and sovereign wealth
funds taking a bigger share,” Durteste said. “Investors are
recognizing there is a structural lack of credit in Europe,
particularly amongst mid-market companies that do not have
access to public bond markets.”  The fund is the largest-ever raised in  Europe  focused on
mezzanine loans, according to data from research firm Preqin
Ltd. ICG targeted 2 billion euros and increased the fund’s size
to its maximum, the London-based company said in a statement
today. ICG has already invested 23 percent of the fund, which
has a five-year investment period and can also purchase senior-
ranking equity, it said.  Mezzanine loans are a type of debt used to fund leveraged
buyouts and may give lenders a stake in a company. The debt pays
more than bonds and costs roughly double the interest margin of
senior loans because of its junior ranking.  European banks arranged $130 billion of high-yield loans in
2012, 27 percent less than the year before, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Investor Diversification  ICG’s investment company contributed about 500 million
euros to the fund, with sovereign wealth investors providing 35
percent, pension funds 31 percent and insurance companies 10
percent, according to the statement.  ICG also raised 212 million pounds ($341 million) for ICG-
Longbow Fund III, a new investment focusing on mezzanine debt,
according to the statement. Another fund focusing on direct
lending of senior-secured loans to European mid-market
corporates is expected to close before the end of the financial
year.  Assets under management increased 13 percent to 12.9
billion euros since the start of the financial year, according
to the statement. ICG’s investment company received 40 million
pounds of repayments in the quarter ending Dec. 31, raising the
total for the year to 91 million pounds.  ICG was little changed at 340 pence at 9:47 a.m. in  London .
The stock has climbed 38 percent in the past year, giving the
company a market value of 1.4 billion pounds.  Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- by  Standard &
Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  