-- IMF’s Zhu Says Japanese Debt Overhang Is Getting More Serious
-- B y   S u s a n   L i   a n d   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-01-15T02:17:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/imf-s-zhu-says-japanese-debt-overhang-is-getting-more-serious.html
International Monetary Fund official
Zhu Min said  Japan ’s debt burden is becoming “more serious” as
the government takes extra steps to stimulate growth in the
world’s third-biggest economy.  “The debt overhang is becoming more serious so they need
to go further in fiscal consolidation,” Zhu, a deputy managing
director at the IMF, said in an interview in  Hong Kong  today,
where he’s attending the Asian Financial Forum.  Japan announced 10.3 trillion yen ($115 billion) in fiscal
stimulus last week as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe followed through
on election pledges to weaken the yen, counter deflation and
spur economic growth. The risk is that the nation’s debt burden,
estimated by the IMF at 237 percent of gross domestic product
last year, will lead to a surge in government bond yields.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  meets Jan. 21 and 22 to decide whether to
ease for the fourth month in five and will adopt a 2 percent
inflation target advocated by Abe, according to people familiar
with officials’ discussions. Central bank Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said today that the economy remains weak, with exports
and production decreasing, and he plans to continue “powerful”
monetary easing.  Zhu said there is “still a little room for monetary
policy” in Japan against the background of the rising debt and
the nation retains “room to maneuver” because of a “huge”
domestic savings pool.  Japanese stocks rose today, with the Nikkei 225 Stock
Average headed for its highest close since April 2010, as the
yen traded near its lowest since June 2010 against the dollar.
The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  gained 1.1 percent as of 9:58 a.m.
in  Tokyo .  Global Outlook  The global economy is “a little bit stronger” in 2013
than last year, said Zhu, who is a former deputy governor of the
People’s Bank of  China  and a former group executive vice
president at Bank of China Ltd.  China needs a consumption-driven economy for more stable
growth, he said. “In the past few years, China really moved
from an export-driven growth model to an investment-driven
growth model,” he said. “To stabilize growth, you have to move
to consumption-driven.  China’s  yuan , described by the IMF last year as
‘‘moderately undervalued,’’ is moving towards fair value, the
IMF official said.  In October, the IMF forecast a 1.2 percent expansion for
Japan this year, along with 8.2 percent growth in China.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net ;
 Susan Li  in Hong Kong at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  