-- In China, Slowdown Is a Bigger Danger Than Growth
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2013-01-15T23:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/in-china-slowdown-is-a-bigger-danger-than-growth.html
A slight acceleration in Chinese
economic growth at the end of last year is reinforcing the
common narrative that  China ’s expansion is a threat to other
nations, including the U.S.  The bigger danger over the medium term, however, may be a
slowdown in Chinese growth -- which appears to be more likely
than most U.S.-based commentators seem to realize.  China, after all, is fast approaching income levels
associated with the “middle-income trap,” the point at which
many other countries have moved from rapid to sluggish growth.
This trap opens up for several reasons, including that economies
expand disproportionately, at early stages of development, by
shifting workers from agriculture to manufacturing. At some
point, though, the gains from such shifts disappear, and new
sources of growth are needed. China  appears  to be near this
point.  The middle-income trap typically occurs at two income
levels: about $10,000 in per-capita income, and again at about
$15,000. This is based on the most recent data, assembled by
economists  Barry Eichengreen  of the University of California at
Berkeley, Donghyun Park of the  Asian Development Bank  and Kwanho
Shin of Korea University, and  published  this month by the
National Bureau of  Economic Research .  Rising Incomes  Chinese income per capita amounted to slightly more than
$7,000 in 2010. At an average growth rate of 7 percent a year
from 2010 onward, China would hit the lower threshold by 2015.
And as the authors note, “slowdowns are more likely in economies
with high old age dependency ratios, high investment rates that
may translate into low future returns on capital, and
undervalued real exchange rates that provide a disincentive to
move up the technology ladder. These patterns will presumably
remind readers of current conditions and recent policies in
China.”  One thing that can help determine whether a country escapes
the middle-income trap and continues to grow rapidly is its
level of inequality, a  recent study  by researchers at the
Chinese Academy of Sciences and  Stanford University  showed. More
unequal societies, with less-inclusive institutions, have
greater difficulty sustaining growth.  This message is also at the heart of a more comprehensive
analysis in “ Why Nations Fail ,” a recent book by economists
 Daron Acemoglu  of the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and
 James Robinson  of  Harvard University .  Comparing nations that have escaped the middle-income trap
with those that have gotten stuck in it, the researchers from
the Chinese Academy of Sciences and Stanford concluded that
graduating countries had low inequality, with Gini coefficients
of less than 40 percent. (The Gini coefficient equals zero if
everyone has the same income, and 100 percent if one person has
all the income and everyone else has none.)  China’s Gini coefficient is about 50 percent and rising.
“To be clear,” the researchers write, “we are not saying that
there is an absolute causal link between inequality and
stagnation in growth when a country reaches middle income.
However, we are saying that if in the very near future China
does not address  income inequality  and -- even more so -- human
capital inequality, China will have to try to accomplish what no
successful graduate has ever done since World War II: make the
transition from middle to high income with high levels of
inequality.”  What would be the consequences if China falls into the
trap? According to Yasheng Huang, a professor of management at
MIT, slower growth could destabilize China’s internal political
economy. That, in turn, could prove to be the far larger risk
for other nations.  Greater Danger  In a similar vein, China specialist Susan Shirk of the
 University of California  at  San Diego   warns  that it is China’s
“internal fragility, not its growing strength, that presents the
greatest danger.” And Aaron Friedberg, a professor of politics
and international affairs at  Princeton University , writes that a
less prosperous China “may be a less effective competitor in
certain respects, but it could also prove to be less
predictable, more aggressive, and hence even more dangerous and
difficult for the  United States  and its allies to manage.”
Friedberg says weak leaders in China might be tempted to rally
popular support by confronting other countries.  Slower growth in China is not inevitable, but it is a
greater -- and more dangerous -- possibility than many in the
U.S. may realize.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 