-- Sugar Intake Levels Linked to Body Weight, Review Finds
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-01-16T09:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/increasing-sugar-intake-leads-to-weight-gain-review-confirms.html
Increasing or decreasing intake of
sugar is associated with changes in body weight, a commonly held
view confirmed by the first systematic review of available
evidence commissioned by the  World Health Organization .  Increased consumption of so-called free sugars, including
additives to foods and those naturally present in honey, syrups
and fruit juices, led to an average gain of 0.8 kilograms (1.8
pounds) in body weight in adults, researchers at the University
of Otago in  New Zealand  found in a review of 71 studies.
Limiting the analysis to studies lasting longer than eight
weeks, weight gain was 2.7 kilograms, they said.  The WHO commissioned the review in preparation for updating
its  2003 recommendation  that free sugar be limited to less than
10 percent of energy intake. The study adds to a debate over
public policy aimed at curbing the obesity epidemic and related
diseases, including  New York  City’s decision to restrict sales
of large-sized sugary soft drinks.  “When considering the rapid weight gain that occurs after
an increased intake of sugars, it seems reasonable to conclude
that advice relating to sugars intake is a relevant component of
a strategy to reduce the high risk of overweight and obesity in
most countries,” the authors said in a paper published today in
the  British Medical Journal .  Low Sugar  Cutting consumption of sugars led to an average 0.8
kilogram reduction in weight in adults, according to five
studies that ranged from 10 weeks to eight months, the authors
said. Among studies in children, comparison of varying levels of
consumption suggested a “significantly increased risk” of
being overweight associated with higher intakes, they said.  “This review clearly indicates the positive association,
which I think is quite striking, given that no such systematic
reviews have been conducted so far,” Chizuru Nishida, a
coordinator in the WHO’s Department of Nutrition for Health and
Development in Geneva, said in an interview. The study defends
the current WHO guidelines that have been criticized as having
no scientific basis, she said.  The WHO has commissioned a second study, to be published
sometime in the next few months, looking at sugars and tooth
decay and will consider both analyses in its updated
recommendation, Nishida said.  ‘Special Attention’  “Reducing the amount of sugar consumed in drinks deserves
special attention because of the strength of the evidence and
the ease with which excessive sugar is consumed in this form,”
said Walter Willett, a professor at the  Harvard School of Public
Health , and David Ludwig, a professor at the Boston Children’s
Hospital, in an editorial accompanying the study. “But
questions remain. What is a desirable limit?”  In September,  New York City ’s Board of Health approved
Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s plan to restrict sales of sugary soft
drinks to no more than 16 ounces (450 grams) a cup. They
rejected arguments from  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ,  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and
restaurant companies whose  coalition  says the issue is about
consumers’ freedom to choose. The mayor is founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Recent efforts to tax soft drinks have foundered in at
least 30 U.S. states. The federal government rejected an attempt
in 2011 to bar purchases of sugared drinks with  food stamps .  Tax Abandoned  In  Europe , a  sugar tax in Denmark  was abandoned in November
after a fat tax was criticized for raising prices and driving
consumers to shop in neighboring countries like  Germany .  Soft-drink makers say their products contribute 7 percent
of calories to the average daily diet in the U.S. and 3 percent
in Europe, too little to be the cause of obesity.  Weight gain can be slowed by paying attention to the amount
of calories consumed and burned through exercise, the American
Beverage Association has said. Soda makers have offered smaller
packages, labeled products with clearer calorie counts and
agreed to stop selling sugary drinks in most schools.  In 2006, soft-drink manufacturers committed to abstaining
from advertising in Europe to children under 12 on television,
online and in print and to refrain from sales in primary
schools, according to the  Union of European Beverages
Associations .  Coca-Cola started airing TV advertisements this week urging
consumers to pay attention to calories of beverages, including
its own, and noted its low- and zero-calorie products.  The WHO’s 2003 report disregards evidence suggesting that
refined carbohydrates have metabolic effects comparable to those
of sugar, Willett and Ludwig said.  “Efforts to reduce sugar intake are appropriate, but they
should form part of a broader effort to improve the quality of
carbohydrates,” they said. “Action should be taken at many
levels, including education programs, improvements in food and
drinks provided in schools and work sites, and supplemental
nutrition programs for people with low incomes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  