-- Indian Stocks May Jump 14% in 2013 on Policy, Deutsche Bank Says
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-01-15T03:59:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/indian-stocks-may-jump-14-in-2013-on-policy-deutsche-bank-says.html
India’s benchmark stock index may
advance a further 14 percent this year if the Indian government
and central bank sustain policy measures to boost economic
growth, Deutsche Bank AG wrote in a report released today.  The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, may rise to
22,500, led by financial, energy, industrial, material and
information technology stocks, according to the report by
Deutsche Bank strategists Abhay Laijawala and Abhishek Saraf.  The gauge climbed to more than 20,000 for the first time
since January 2011 today, and traded 0.2 percent higher at
19,933.39 at 9:26 a.m. in Mumbai. Stocks jumped yesterday after
data showed the benchmark  inflation rate  slowed to a three-year
low in December, widening the  Reserve Bank of India ’s scope to
reduce borrowing costs to revive the economy. The central bank
signaled last month that monetary policy must shift toward
aiding economic growth, predicting inflation will moderate in an
economy expanding at the weakest pace in a decade. The authority
meets for its next policy review on Jan. 29.  “The onus of transition from vicious to virtuous will
initially lie with New Delhi and the  Reserve Bank  of India
during the first half of 2013 before the baton is taken up by
the private sector in the second half of the year,” according
to the report.  The Sensex had its  biggest annual rally  last year since
2009 as Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  took measures to attract
foreign investment to boost  growth  and to avert a credit-rating
downgrade. Overseas funds bought $24.5 billion of local shares
in 2012, the most among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg.  Cyclical Stocks  Cyclical and rate-sensitive stocks will lead the rally in
Indian shares this year, according to the report. Lenders  Axis
Bank Ltd. (AXSB) ,  Bank of Baroda (BOB)  and  Punjab National Bank (PNB)  are among
Deutsche Bank’s top picks for 2013, along with  Bharat Heavy
Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) , India’s biggest power-equipment maker, and
 Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , India’s largest engineering company.  The bank also recommended  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the
biggest carmaker,  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , owner of the world’s
largest refining complex,  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) , the nation’s biggest
producer of the alloy,  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , India’s
largest software services exporter, and cement maker  Ultratech
Cement Ltd. (UTCEM)   The report rated consumer staple, health-care and utility
stocks underweight, the equivalent of sell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Oakley  in Singapore at 
 moakley@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  