-- India’s Sensex Climbs Above 20,000 First Time Since 2011
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w   a n d   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-01-15T12:28:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/india-s-sensex-climbs-above-20-000-first-time-since-january-2011.html
India’s benchmark equities index
held at a two-year high as foreign investors increased their
holdings of local shares amid government measures to revive
economic growth.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, rose 0.4 percent
to 19,986.82 at the close, after surpassing 20,000 intraday for
the first time since January 2011.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , India’s
largest mobile-phone operator, advanced 5 percent. Cigarette
maker  ITC Ltd. (ITC)  increased to a one-week high.  The Sensex had its  biggest annual increase  last year since
2009 as Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  took measures to attract
foreign investment to boost an  economy  growing at the slowest
pace in three years and to avert a credit-rating downgrade. The
Sensex may climb to 22,500 this year if policy steps continue,
Deutsche Bank AG said in a report today, joining Morgan Stanley
which expects the gauge to reach 23,069 by December as company
earnings recover.  “The government has indicated a number of times that it is
willing to push these initiatives, so we are positive on Indian
equities,” Robert Aspin, an investment strategist with Standard
Chartered Bank in Singapore, told Bloomberg TV India.
“Inflation will come down in the next few quarters and on the
back of that the central bank will be able to reduce rates.”  Data showed yesterday the benchmark inflation rate slowed
to a three-year low in December, widening the  Reserve Bank of
India ’s scope to reduce borrowing costs to revive the economy.
The central bank signaled last month that monetary policy must
shift toward aiding economic growth, predicting inflation will
moderate. The RBI meets for its next policy review on Jan. 29.  Lenders, Industrials  “The onus of transition from vicious to virtuous will
initially lie with New Delhi and the  Reserve Bank  of India
during the first half of 2013 before the baton is taken up by
the private sector in the second half of the year,” Deutsche
Bank said in the report.  Lenders  Axis Bank Ltd. (AXSB) ,  Bank of Baroda  and  Punjab National
Bank (PNB)  are among Deutsche Bank’s top picks for 2013, along with
 Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) , India’s biggest power-equipment
maker, and  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , the top engineering company.  Bharti increased 5 percent to 345.2 rupees. ITC added 2.2
percent to 284.1 rupees, the highest close since Jan. 8.  Tata
Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the owner of Jaguar Land Rover, rose 1.2 percent to
331.55 rupees.  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , India’s biggest
carmaker, added 0.5 percent to 1,546 rupees.  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , India’s biggest software
maker, added 0.2 percent after its net income beat estimates.
Earnings were announced yesterday after markets closed.  Margin Expansion  Two of the 30 Sensex companies that announced earnings for
the December quarter so far have exceeded analysts estimates.
Net incomes for 40 percent of the Sensex firms missed analysts’
estimates for the three months ended September, the same as for
the June quarter, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We expect revenue growth to remain modest but margins to
expand and profit growth to improve, especially for the board
market” in the quarter ended December, Morgan Stanley India
analysts led by  Ridham Desai  wrote in a report today. Sensex
earnings may grow 10 percent in the year ending March, and 19
percent in 2014, according to the report.  Singh cut fuel subsidies in September to tackle a  budget
deficit  and opened industries from retail to aviation to more
overseas investment. Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram
said last month he expects a policy to let foreigners increase
holdings in insurers to be approved in the next session of
parliament. The government yesterday delayed a clampdown on tax
avoidance until 2016 after the plans spooked foreign investors.  Fund Flows  The steps help spur inflows into stocks, with foreigners
buying a net $1.8 billion this year, almost three times the
level at the same time in 2012. They plowed a net $24.5 billion
into local shares last year, the highest among 10 Asian markets
tracked by Bloomberg, which excludes China.  The Sensex’s rally last year was more than twice the gain
of the MSCI BRIC index in 2012, and compared with a 3 percent
increase for the Shanghai Composite Index. The Sensex trades at
15.8 times estimated earnings, compared with a multiple of 11
for MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index.  The S&P CNX  Nifty Index (NIFTY)  on the National Stock Exchange of
India increased 0.5 percent to 6,056.60. The BSE Mid-Cap Index
rose 0.3 percent, its second day of gains. India VIX, which
measures the cost of protection against losses in the Nifty,
fell 0.9 percent to 13.70.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  