-- India Says No Business as Usual With Pakistan After Clash
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-01-16T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/india-says-no-business-as-usual-with-pakistan-after-clash-1-.html
Indian Foreign Minister Salman Khurshid said  Pakistan ’s failure to investigate the killing of
Indian troops in Kashmir meant an end to “business as usual,”
sharpening the country’s diplomatic offensive against its long-
time rival.  The two governments and their militaries have for more than
a week traded accusations of deadly raids across the de facto
frontier in the disputed Himalayan region, skirmishes that have
become the biggest threat to improving ties since peace talks
resumed two years ago. Pakistan accused India of an unprovoked
attack that killed one of its soldiers late yesterday.  Indian army chief Bikram Singh and government officials
have said that one of two soldiers killed by Pakistani troops
Jan. 8 was beheaded. The  Hindu newspaper  reported the fighting
may have been provoked by  India ’s building of a bunker near the
so-called Line of Control.  Pakistan has denied its troops crossed the border and has
accused New Delhi of propaganda to divert attention from what
Pakistan’s army says was an unprovoked Indian attack two days
earlier that killed one Pakistani soldier.  Responding to Khurshid, Pakistan Foreign Minister Hina Rabbani Khar accused India of “warmongering” at an  Asia
Society  event in  New York  yesterday. Khar said she was “deeply
disappointed” by the Indian comments and said Pakistan did not
want events on the disputed border to derail peace talks.  Need Talks  “We see warmongering, which puts the last 60 years
actively back into our memories,” Khar said. “All I can say on
behalf of my government that we feel that the dialogue process
should be uninterrupted.”  Khurshid told reporters in New Delhi yesterday that
Pakistan’s “brazen denial and lack of a proper response” to
India’s diplomatic protests showed it was not serious about
pursuing peace. Pakistan’s government was yesterday dealt a
double blow as the  Supreme Court  ordered the prime minister’s
arrest in a corruption case and an Islamic cleric rallied
supporters in Islamabad.  The foreign minister’s statement “tries to assuage the
feelings of India’s people, while it sends a strong signal to
Pakistan that such incidents will have repercussions,” said
Ashok K. Behuria, an analyst at the New Delhi-based Institute
for Defence Studies and Analyses. “The developments will
influence the rhythm of the relationship.”  Pakistan’s Director General of Military Operations will
call his Indian counterpart on a hotline this morning to protest
last night’s ceasefire violation, according to a statement by
the nation’s army.  ‘Grave Provocation’  Amid the violations of a decade-old truce in Kashmir, the
two countries have summoned each other’s diplomats while senior
military officers have met near the border. The decapitation of
the soldier brought demands for dialogue to be scrapped from
opposition politicians in India.  “The government has deplored this grave provocation and
repugnant act of the Pakistan army,” Khurshid said at a
specially convened press briefing in the capital. It “leads us
to draw appropriate conclusions about Pakistan’s seriousness in
pursuing normalization of relations with India,” he said.  Some of the most serious cross-border clashes since 2003
between the two nuclear-armed neighbors, which resumed peace
talks after a three-year break in ties over the Mumbai terrorist
attack, have undermined a sustained bid to improve trade and
ease travel restrictions. The nations have fought two of their
three wars over Kashmir, which has been claimed by both since
independence from British rule in 1947.  Right to Retaliate  General Singh said Jan. 14 that the attack almost a week
earlier was “preplanned” and India reserved “the right to
retaliate at the time and place of its choice.” At the same
time, he vowed to “uphold the cease-fire as long as it is
maintained.”  India broke off talks with its neighbor after Pakistani
militants killed 166 people in the attack on Mumbai. India says
the strike was carried out by the Lashkar-e-Taiba guerrilla
group with the support of some members of Pakistan’s security
establishment. The government in  New Delhi  has criticized
Pakistan for failing to prosecute those it holds responsible for
the carnage.  Pakistan, which denies any state role in the attack, has
begun a trial of some Lashkar members.  Nine Pakistani players playing in a professional Indian
hockey league will return home after protests by Hindu
nationalists objecting to their presence following the clashes
on the border, according to NDTV television channel. The players
will be paid in full for the remainder of this year’s contracts,
NDTV said, citing Indian Hockey General Secretary Narinder
Batra.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  