-- India Inflation High Even After Moderating, Subbarao Says
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-01-15T16:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/india-inflation-high-even-after-moderating-subbarao-says.html
Inflation in  India  still remains
high and economic growth remains a concern,  Reserve Bank  of
India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said.  “It’s a decline from the peak but it is still quite
high,” Subbarao told management students in the northern Indian
city of Lucknow, referring to inflation.  India’s benchmark  inflation  eased to a three-year low in
December, boosting scope for an interest-rate cut to support the
economy, which is poised to expand at the slowest pace in a
decade.  “When growth is slowing down you can stimulate the economy
either by monetary easing or by fiscal stimulus,” Subbarao
said. “But both monetary and fiscal side have no room for
stimulus. So that is the big concern.”  The central bank signaled Dec. 18 that monetary policy
should shift toward revitalizing growth as the fastest inflation
among major  emerging markets  slows.  The  Reserve Bank of India  will lower  borrowing  costs 25
basis points to 7.75 percent on Jan. 29, according to 13 of 16
analysts in a Bloomberg News survey. The rest expect a 50 basis-
point cut.  The benchmark wholesale-price index rose 7.18 percent in
December from a year earlier, the slowest pace since December
2009, the Commerce Ministry said yesterday. The  Finance Ministry 
predicts gross domestic product will rise as little as 5.7
percent in the year to March 31, the slowest since 2002-2003.  Indian inflation remains the fastest in the BRIC group of
major emerging markets, stoked by supply bottlenecks and a more
than 5.5 percent drop in the rupee against the dollar in the
past 12 months. BRIC includes Brazil, Russia, India and China.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  