-- Investors Singing I Love New York With Triple IOUs: Muni Credit
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-01-15T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/investors-singing-i-love-new-york-with-triple-ious-muni-credit.html
Debt of New York issuers is close to
the most expensive since 2011 even as the state and its
municipalities are set to triple the amount of IOUs they’re
using to cover pension bills.  New York and its localities plan to defer a combined $964
million of payments to the state pension under a program
Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  created in 2010 that lets public
employers spread some retirement obligations over as long as 10
years with interest, budget data show. The amount is up from
$791 million last year and $293 million the year before.  While the IOUs signal that rising pension obligations are
straining local finances in Wall Street’s home state, issuers
are still paying close to the smallest penalty in 18 months.
Buyers demanded as little as 0.26 percentage point of  extra
yield  last month on 10-year bonds of New York debt rather than
AAA tax-exempts, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Investors are concerned about issues like borrowing to
pay pensions,” said Howard Cure, director of municipal research
in  New York  for Evercore Wealth Management LLC.  With  interest rates  near the lowest since the 1960s, “the
market is such that it’s not showing up significantly,” said
Cure, whose firm oversees about $3.8 billion.  Tax Bet  Benchmark muni yields set a 47-year-low last month as
investors bet lawmakers would raise federal income taxes to help
trim the U.S. deficit. Last year, New York issuers sold about
 $44.5 billion  of long-term, fixed-rate debt, most among states,
Bloomberg data show.  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., doubled New York holdings to
about $3 billion in the quarter ending Sept. 30, according to
filings released last month.  Joe Deane , head of munis at Pimco
in New York, said Wall Street’s home state offered good credits
and prices, and was a high percentage of what was available
“when we really liked the market.”  New York municipalities are being squeezed by revenue that
has yet to rebound from the recession that ended in 2009, a 2
percent property-tax cap and costs from  Hurricane Sandy .  The number of New York local public employers joining the
so-called pension amortization program by the Feb. 1 deadline,
when fiscal 2013 payments are due, may change, DiNapoli said
Jan. 8 in an interview in  Albany . More may join, and some may
opt out, he said.  Facing Stress  Last year, 133 joined by the final deadline. The portion
they can borrow climbs each year when payment rates are rising.  “We keep hearing that more communities are facing fiscal
stress,” said DiNapoli, sole trustee of New York’s $150.6
billion retirement fund, the nation’s third-largest. “This is
an option for those in severe cash-flow need.”  Municipalities across the U.S. are experiencing the strain
of pension costs. Localities sold $980 million of taxable
bonds in 2012 to finance public-worker retirement obligations,
the most since 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  In New York, DiNapoli sets what localities pay. From fiscal
year 2010 to 2014, the average rate they owe on every dollar
that police and fire employees earn rose to 28.9 percent from
15.1 percent, and to 20.9 percent from 7.4 percent for other
public workers, according to statements on DiNapoli’s website.  New York’s pension is one of the nation’s best-funded. It
had about 94 percent of the money needed to pay its obligations
in 2011, fourth-highest, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Loss Impact  Still, by 2014 the bill for counties outside  New York City 
is projected to total $1.1 billion, up from $47 million in 2000
as the fund makes up for losses suffered during the 18-month
recession, according to the New York State Association of
Counties. Governments amortizing payments must contribute to
reserves used to offset any future contributions spikes.  Of the 87 saying they planned to join by a preliminary Dec.
15 deadline, 32 are new entrants, data from DiNapoli show. Among
them is Westchester County, a northern suburb of New York City
that is rated AAA by  Standard & Poor’s , the top grade.  The county is deferring $25.3 million of its $76.1 million
bill this year, and plans to amortize $35 million of its $91
million payment next year, according to DiNapoli’s data and
county documents. County Executive Rob Astorino, who has pledged
not to raise taxes, said he plans to cut about 100 jobs.  ‘Few Options’  “We were left with few options,” Astorino, a Republican,
said in an interview. “We have exploding pensions, Medicaid and
throw in workers’ labor cost and the budget goes up
exponentially every year.”  A pension overhaul Governor  Andrew Cuomo  pushed through the
legislature last year that raised the  retirement age  on new
employees to 63 from 62 will save $75 million for Westchester
governments and schools within the first five years, Cuomo’s
office said at the time the measure was approved.  The state itself plans to take a $779 million loan under
the program this year.  “The state joined the pension amortization program in 2010
to provide immediate relief during a fiscal crisis while keeping
the pension system fully funded under the law,” Morris Peters,
a spokesman for Cuomo’s budget division, said in an e-mail  Nassau County on  Long Island , which is under state
financial control and was pummeled when Sandy struck Oct. 29, is
taking part for a second consecutive year. Since taking office,
Republican County Executive Edward Mangano has reduced staff by
20 percent, or about 1,800 positions.  “Pension contributions have doubled since 2010,” Tim
Sullivan, deputy county executive for finance, said in an e-
mail. “To continue to provide essential services to county
residents and hold the line on property taxes, the county opted
to amortize increased pension costs.”  In trading yesterday in the $3.7 trillion muni market,
benchmark 10-year debt was little changed to yield 1.74 percent,
the lowest since Dec. 31, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Following is a pending sale:  ARIZONA  TRANSPORTATION BOARD plans to sell $707 million of
taxable and tax-exempt revenue bonds as soon as tomorrow, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Proceeds will help finance a five-
year highway capital program and refund debt, according to
Moody’s Investors Service. (Added Jan. 15)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  