-- Investors Start 2013 the Most Bullish in Two Years
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-01-15T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/investors-start-2013-the-most-bullish-in-two-years.html
Investors began 2013 the most
bullish in two years, buying global banks and European stocks,
and holding the lowest level of protection against losses since
before the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, a
Bank of America Corp. survey showed.  A net 51 percent of global fund managers, who together
oversee about $586 billion, said they were overweight equities
in January, four times the level at the start of 2012 and the
most since February 2011. Risk appetite surged to the highest
since January 2004, according to the survey.  “Global investor bullishness has massively surged in
January,” John Bilton, European investment strategist at Bank
of America’s Merrill Lynch unit, said at a press conference in
 London . “Surging global growth expectations have had an impact
on asset-allocation views and cash levels are markedly down.”  The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  has climbed 3.1 percent since the
start of the year, reaching a 20-month high on Jan. 11, as U.S.
lawmakers agreed on a compromise budget, avoiding tax increases
and spending cuts that had threatened to push the world’s
largest economy into a recession.  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  kicked off the U.S. quarterly earnings season
with revenue that exceeded analysts’ estimates. Almost 80
percent of the 30  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  companies to have
reported quarterly earnings so far have beaten forecasts,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Overweight Banks  “Investors are growing increasingly confident about the
growth outlook,” wrote Michael Hartnett, BofA’s chief global
equity strategist in the report. We have also seen the “first
overweight of global banks since February 2007. That is perhaps
the boldest message this month.”  A net 3 percent of respondents said they were overweight
lenders in January, meaning that investors hold more banks than
are represented in benchmark indexes. They also increased their
holdings in technology companies and industrials while reducing
their investments in so-called defensive industries such as
utilities and drugmakers.  Holdings in euro-area equities surged in January, with 15
percent now overweight, the biggest allocation since January
2008. Some 7 percent were overweight in December. The percentage
of investors taking out protection against declining equity
markets for the next three months also fell in January to the
lowest level since at least February 2008.  Optimism in Japanese stocks increased with money mangers
overweight the country for the first time since July 2011. By
contrast, allocations to the U.S. stock market continued to
slide, with a net 3 percent of respondents owning less than
global benchmarks. That’s the first underweight in 18 months.  “In our view, investors are counting on  emerging markets ,
 Europe  and  Japan  to outperform the U.S. equities should risk
assets continue to rally in the first quarter,” Hartnett wrote.
“Clearly for risk assets to remain bid, growth and earnings
data will need to accelerate before the second quarter.”  The global survey, which included 190 respondents, was
conducted from Jan. 4 to Jan. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  