-- Iran Points to Atomic-Treaty Pledges Ahead of IAEA Meeting
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2013-01-15T13:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/iran-emphasizes-its-atomic-treaty-pledges-ahead-of-iaea-meeting.html
Iran  said it won’t shirk its
nuclear-treaty obligations ahead of a meeting with United
Nations atomic inspectors traveling to Tehran in search of a
deal to dispel concerns over alleged atomic-bomb research.  International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors left Vienna
today for a one-day meeting to negotiate wider access to Iranian
facilities suspected of housing nuclear activities. Iran, a
signatory to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, is ready to
work with the IAEA if inspectors share intelligence that
allegedly shows the nuclear work, Foreign Ministry spokesman
Ramin Memanparast said today.  “The agency was never ready to present documents behind”
the allegations, Memanparast said at a briefing in Tehran. “If
we are to answer allegations the other party must stand by its
commitment, too.”  Iran, under IAEA investigation for a decade, studied how to
make a miniaturized nuclear weapon designed after a Pakistani
model, according to information given to the UN agency by
unidentified intelligence sources. The Persian Gulf nation,
under dozens of international sanctions, denies it is seeking
atomic weapons and insists it should have access to all evidence
on which allegations are based.  “We are approaching these talks in a constructive
spirit,” the IAEA’s top inspector Herman Nackaerts told
reporters before departing. Whether Iran will be permitted to
see the evidence collected against it “is part of the
negotiation,” he said.  Step Backward  IAEA officials initially expected to sign a deal tomorrow
in Tehran that would permit them to visit Iran’s Parchin
military complex, among other suspected sites, Nackaerts said
Dec. 14. Expectations were subsequently lowered by IAEA Director
General Yukiya Amano.  “Negotiating with Iran is quite a challenge,” Amano said
Jan. 11, according to the Associated Press. “A step forward
doesn’t necessarily lead to another step forward. After making a
step forward, there could be two steps backward or even three
steps backward.”  Iran is ready to register a religious edict, or fatwa,
issued by Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, as an
international legal document, Memanparast said.  “Nothing is higher than the Supreme Leader’s fatwa for us
to define the framework in which to carry out our nuclear
activities,” he said.  Khamenei, the country’s highest
authority, said in February last year that Iran “has never been
after nuclear weapons and never will be” and considers
possessing them a “crime” as well as “unnecessary, harmful
and dangerous.”  Iran reached an agreement on the timing for a new round of
negotiations with the so-called P5+1 group, composed of  China ,
 France ,  Germany ,  Russia , the U.K. and U.S., Memanparast said
without providing details.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Yeganeh Salehi in Tehran at 
 yalehi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  