-- Iraqi Sunni Opposition Lawmaker Killed in Suicide Bomb Attack
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   K a d h i m   A j r a s h
-- 2013-01-15T14:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/iraqi-sunni-opposition-lawmaker-killed-in-suicide-bomb-attack.html
Iraqi Sunni Muslim lawmaker Ifan al-
Issawi was killed in a “terrorist” suicide attack during an
opposition demonstration, the  Interior Ministry  said.  Issawi, a member of the Sunni-dominated Iraqiya
parliamentary bloc, was killed when a suicide bomber blew
himself up after embracing the politician during a demonstration
in the city of Falluja, west of  Baghdad , according to a ministry
statement. Issawi and the suicide bomber were killed instantly
and a number of other people were wounded, it said.  Violence and political clashes in Iraq have increased since
the end of 2011 when the U.S. pulled out the last of the troops
it deployed since the 2003 invasion that ousted Saddam Hussein.
Sunni and Kurdish members of the government have boycotted
Cabinet sessions since Jan. 8, and demonstrations have spread to
eight regions in  Iraq  to demand that Shiite Muslim Prime
Minister Nouri al-Maliki share more power. Followers of Shiite
leader Moqtada al-Sadr have also criticized Maliki’s government.  Issawi’s killing comes a day after unidentified gunmen
ambushed and killed Mohamed Abdrabbu, a tribal leader helping to
organize protests against Maliki, in the northern city of Mosul,
al-Sumaria News reported, citing security officials.  The slain lawmaker is from the same tribe as Minister of
Finance Rafih al-Issawi, who survived an assassination attempt
Jan. 13 when his convoy was hit by an improvised explosive
device west of Baghdad. The minister had complained last month
that Maliki was responsible for the arrest of his security team
by what he called a “militia.”  Prisoner Release  Maliki’s opponents have demanded the release of prisoners.
The government has freed 335 detainees since Jan. 7, according
to a ministerial committee headed by Deputy Prime Minister
Hussain al-Shahristani.  The opposition has also called for a general amnesty and
the revocation of laws they say are being used to target Sunnis
accused of being terrorists or members of  Saddam Hussein ’s Baath
party, which has been banned since the U.S.-led invasion.  Government soldiers clashed for the first time with Kurdish
forces on Nov. 16, leaving one person dead. The Kurds have since
halted crude exports amid a standoff with the federal government
over distribution of oil revenue.  Iraq holds the world’s fifth-biggest crude reserves,
according to  BP Plc (BP/)  statistics that include  Canada ’s oil sands.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Kadhim Ajrash in Baghdad at 
 kajrash@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  