-- IRS Announces Simpler Rules for Home-Office Deductions
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-01-15T20:39:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/irs-announces-simpler-rules-for-home-office-deductions.html
U.S. taxpayers will be able to make
a simplified calculation to claim up to $1,500 in  home-office 
deductions, the  Internal Revenue Service  said.  The new rule will take effect for tax year 2013 and not the
tax-filing season starting this month. Taxpayers will be able to
deduct $5 per square foot for up to 300 square feet of a home
office.  “This is going to give some flexibility,” said Keith
Hall, an accountant in  Dallas  who is a tax adviser for the
National Association for the Self-Employed. “You can save some
money, save some time, some of the investment you make in
Advil.”  Currently, according to the IRS, taxpayers must fill out a
43-line form to claim the deduction. Groups representing small
businesses have been urging the government to simplify the
rules, arguing that the complexity deters some eligible
taxpayers from bothering to take the deduction.  Hall described the current rules as “unbelievably
complicated” because they require business owners to separate
expenses into different categories and analyze the depreciation
of their home.  “This is a common-sense rule to provide taxpayers an
easier way to calculate and claim the home-office deduction,”
said  Steven Miller , the acting IRS commissioner, in a statement.  The new calculation doesn’t change the underlying law that
governs when taxpayers with home-based businesses can take
deductions, and the IRS still will be able to conduct audits. To
qualify for the deduction, taxpayers must regularly and
exclusively use the space for a business.  According to the IRS, more than 3 million taxpayers claimed
the home-office deduction in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  