-- Live Nation Courts Marketers as Pop Stars Boost Pop Tarts
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-01-15T22:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/live-nation-courts-marketers-as-pop-stars-boost-pop-tarts.html
Live Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV) ,
pursuing growth outside its mature concert and ticket
businesses, is seeking to double profit from advertising and
sponsorships over five years.  The division’s earnings will grow 10 percent to 15 percent
a year through 2017, Chief Executive Officer Michael Rapino said
in an interview. Live Nation is seeking as much as 30 percent of
the $1 billion marketers spend a year sponsoring U.S. music,
along with more ad sales, he said.  “Our ad strategy is the foundation of how we grow this
business over time,” Rapino said. “Can I keep growing it 10 to
15 percent each year? Absolutely.”  That suggests faster growth for the unit, where profit
gained 7.1 percent through nine months, and would make ads and
sponsorships the biggest moneymaker at the  Beverly Hills ,
California-based company. A revamped LiveNation.com website and
sponsor-rich music festivals are part of the plan to lift profit
from those sources, to as much as $350 million a year based on
Rapino’s target.  Ads and sponsorships are already Live Nation’s  second
biggest  contributor to adjusted operating income -- profit
excluding acquisition costs, depreciation, amortization, asset
sales and stock-based compensation. Events and ticket sales are
low margin, while ads and sponsorships earn 75 cents for every
$1 of revenue, Rapino said.  Jones Beach  “The more that reflects on the bottom line, the more
people will realize we’re not just selling ads at Jones Beach,”
Rapino said, referring to the  amphitheater  on  Long Island ,  New
York .  Through nine months of 2012, ads and sponsorship produced
profit of $137.8 million on that basis, a 7.1 percent gain from
a year earlier. Ben Mogil, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.
in  St. Louis , estimates 2012 profit of $177 million from those
businesses and projects $190 million this year.  Only ticket income, which grew 5.8 percent to $226 million
through nine months, was bigger.  Live Nation still needs more growth from its core concert
and ticket businesses, said Rich Tullo, an analyst at Albert
Fried & Co. in New York.  “I don’t doubt they can grow that business,” Tullo said
of advertising and sponsorships. “But they need the economy to
turn around to make a lot of money.”  The company has a 56 percent share of all U.S. ticket sales
and promotes 75 percent of the 100 largest live events tracked
by Pollstar, Tullo said.  In October, Live Nation predicted 30 percent to 35 percent
growth in total adjusted operating income through 2015,
excluding currency changes. About half will come from
sponsorships and advertising, Rapino said in the interview.  Pop Tarts  Live Nation slipped 0.1 percent to $9.88 as of the close in
New York. The stock climbed 5.9 percent in 2012, a smaller gain
than the 13 percent rise in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Last year, the company developed a campaign and concert
series for  Kellogg Co. (K) ’s Pop Tarts that increased the breakfast
pastry’s followers on  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Twitter Inc., and
sparked additional sales, said Dick Podiak, marketing director
for Pop Tarts at  Battle Creek , Michigan-based Kellogg, without
offering specifics.  Live Nation created an online sweepstakes that provided
tickets to concerts featuring artists popular with teenagers,
Podiak said. The first, in July at the Charter One Pavilion in
 Chicago , featured Carly Rae Jepsen performing her hit song
“Call Me Maybe.” A second show in September at Irving Plaza in
New York starred All Star Weekend and Gym Class Heroes. The
companies are in talks to renew the partnership, Podiak said.  Sweet Spot  Advertising and sponsorship opportunities were also behind
the May decision to buy the producer of the Creamfields
festivals, the creation of mobile apps and the opening of
offices in Asia and  Russia , Rapino said.  With iPhones able to store tickets, Rapino said about 7
percent of ticket sales ocurred on mobile devices in 2012,
creating ad opportunities. That will rise to 10 percent to 14
percent this year, he said.  The company revamped the Live Nation website in December,
adding ad-supported videos, photos and concert information,
along with Chevrolet Sonic, Citibank and  Bud Light  as sponsors.  “We’re pointing to the upper deck and saying this is how
we will grow this business,” Rapino said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  