-- Japan Bonds Rise Fourth Day on BOJ Prospects, Stock Slide
-- B y   N o b u y u k i   A k a m a   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2013-01-16T04:41:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/japan-s-bonds-rise-after-shirakawa-says-economy-is-weak.html
Japanese  government bonds  rose for a
fourth day as the yen’s rally dragged down local shares and amid
prospects the central bank will increase debt purchases.  Benchmark 10-year  yields  slid to an almost one-month low
before the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s Jan. 21-22 meeting where it will
adopt a 2 percent inflation goal advocated by Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe, people familiar with the matter said.  Japan ’s bonds
followed gains in Treasuries as the debate in Washington over
the U.S. debt ceiling increased the allure of refuge assets.
Demand fell at a sale of five-year notes today.  “There is a good chance that the BOJ will cut  interest
rates  on excess reserves and buy longer-dated debt under the
asset-purchase program in the next six months,” supporting
demand for bonds, said  Makoto Yamashita , the chief Japan rates
strategist in Tokyo at Deutsche Securities Inc.  The yield on the 10-year bond fell two basis points to 0.75
percent as of 1:29 p.m. in Tokyo, according to Japan Bond
Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The
yield was the lowest since Dec. 18. The 0.8 percent security due
December 2022 rose 0.185 yen to 100.461.  Yields on 20- and 30-year debt declined to 1.735 percent
and 1.970 percent, respectively, the lowest levels since Dec.
26. The five-year rate increased half a basis point to 0.16
percent. Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average sank 1.8 percent,
snapping a four-day gain, as the yen climbed against all its
major counterparts.  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said at a meeting of branch
managers in  Tokyo  yesterday that the bank will pursue “powerful
monetary easing.” At its last gathering in December, the BOJ
increased its asset-purchase fund to 76 trillion yen ($862
billion) from 66 trillion yen.  Ishida Proposal  Also at the meeting, board member Koji Ishida proposed that
the BOJ eliminate the 0.1 percent interest it pays to commercial
banks on their excess reserves held at the central bank. The
proposal was voted down by colleagues. Fellow board member
Sayuri Shirai said reducing the rate could help to weaken the
yen, according to the text of a speech dated today.  The central bank is set to adopt the 2 percent inflation
target, doubling its existing goal of 1 percent, without setting
a deadline for achieving it, people familiar with the
discussions said.  U.S. government bonds held a three-day gain in Asian
trading amid political wrangling in  Washington  on how to raise
the debt ceiling and avoid a default. The U.S. Treasury
Department has been using emergency measures since the end of
December to prevent a breach of the $16.4 trillion limit.  A government auction in Japan of 2.3 trillion yen of five-
year notes today attracted bids valued at 3.44 times the amount
available, the weakest demand since September, according to
Ministry of Finance data.  “Investors may become reluctant to buy JGBs further and
push the five-year yield below 0.15 percent,” Deutsche’s
Yamashita said ahead of the auction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nobuyuki Akama in Tokyo at 
 akam@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  