-- Japan Machine Orders Rise More Than Estimated in November
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2013-01-16T02:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/japan-machine-orders-rise-more-than-expected-in-november.html
Japan ’s machinery orders rose more
than expected in November, suggesting that companies were
optimistic about the economic outlook as the yen weakened.  Orders, an indicator of  capital spending , climbed 3.9
percent from the previous month for the second straight rise,
the Cabinet Office said today in  Tokyo . The median estimate of
24 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  was for a 0.3 percent
increase. Large orders can cause volatile results.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe last week unveiled a 10.3
trillion yen ($116 billion) stimulus package that Nomura
Securities Co. forecasts will help deliver real annualized
growth of 3.5 percent in the April-June quarter. Prospects for
exporters may improve this year as the yen has fallen about 10
percent against the dollar since mid-November.  “Orders from non-manufacturers continued to increase,
providing considerable support,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief
economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. and a former BOJ
official. “Capital spending will probably recover gradually
this year.”  Orders from manufacturers rose 3.9 percent from a month
earlier, while those from non-manufacturers rose 6.2 percent for
the fourth-straight gain.  Japan’s GDP shrank at an annualized 3.5 percent pace in the
third quarter after contracting in the three months through
June, meeting the textbook definition of a recession. The median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News is for a 0.6
percent contraction in the three months through December 2012,
with growth in the three months to March seen at 1.6 percent.  Short Recession  “The current recession may end up being very short,” said
 Hideo Kumano , chief economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research
Institute in Tokyo and a former central bank official. “The
rapid depreciation of the yen may make companies more inclined
to invest in the coming months.”  The yen has fallen amid expectations the central bank will
increase cash infusions to jump-start growth and defeat
deflation. The currency was at 88.23 per dollar as of 11:12 a.m.
in Tokyo.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  will adopt a 2 percent inflation target
advocated by Abe at its Jan. 21-22 meeting, according to people
familiar with officials’ discussions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  