-- Amari Signals Limits to Abe’s Campaign to Weaken Yen: Economy
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2013-01-15T04:36:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/japan-s-amari-sees-economic-risks-from-excessive-weakness-in-yen.html
Japanese Economy Minister Akira Amari said the nation faces risks from any excessive decline in
the yen, highlighting limits on Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
campaign to drive down the currency.  “If the yen excessively weakens, this would cause a spike
in import prices,” Amari told reporters in Tokyo today. “It
would be a benefit for exports, but would have harmful effects
on people’s livelihoods.”  Fiscal stimulus and the prospect of more central-bank
easing drove a decline of about 10 percent in the yen against
the dollar in two months, aiding Japanese exporters as the
nation struggles to climb out of recession. Any strengthening of
the currency could limit the stock rally that prompted Bank of
America Corp. to upgrade its forecast for equities to a 39
percent gain through year-end.  “Further depreciation of the yen is necessary to boost
manufacturers’ profits and improve price competitiveness,” said
 Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS Securities  Japan  Ltd. and
a former BOJ official.  The Japanese currency gained 0.6 percent to 89.95 per
dollar as of 1:15 p.m. in Tokyo, heading for the first gain in
five days. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average and the broader Topix
Index pared increases, with both up 0.6 percent.  Amari said today that the currency is “correcting” to a
level in line with economic fundamentals, while declining to
comment on an appropriate value.  ‘Powerful’ Easing  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said today that
the nation’s economy remains weak ahead of a Jan 21-22 meeting
where the central bank will decide whether to add to stimulus
for the fourth time in five months.  “Exports and production are decreasing as the global
slowdown continues,” Shirakawa said at a gathering of BOJ
branch managers in  Tokyo , adding that the bank will pursue
“powerful monetary easing.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Bank of America and Nomura
Holdings Inc. are predicting Japanese stocks will extend their
longest streak of gains in 23 years.  The Topix rose for nine straight weeks through Jan. 11, the
longest stretch since December 1989, when it hit a record
2,886.5. Goldman Sachs boosted its estimate to 1,000 on Jan. 7
from 930, while Bank of America increased its 12-month estimate
to 1,250 from 1,050, according to a Jan. 11 note.  Fiscal Stimulus  Abe announced 10.3 trillion yen ($116 billion) in
additional stimulus on Jan. 11 and is pressuring the Bank of
Japan to double its inflation target to 2 percent after the
third recession in five years. Goldman Sachs is buying shares of
exporters, financial firms and utilities, Hiroyuki Ito, Tokyo-
based head of equity investment at Goldman Sachs Asset
Management Co., said last month.  International Monetary Fund official Zhu Min said today
that Japan’s debt burden is becoming “more serious” as the
government takes extra steps to stimulate growth in the world’s
third-biggest economy.  Zhu, a deputy managing director at the
IMF, spoke in an interview in  Hong Kong , where he’s attending
the Asian Financial Forum.  The risk is that the nation’s debt burden, estimated by the
IMF at 237 percent of gross domestic product last year, will
lead to a surge in government bond yields.  Germany, Spain  Elsewhere in the Asia Pacific region today, New Zealand
business confidence surged to the highest in five quarters,
while the country’s home sales rose in December from a year
earlier.  German economic growth probably slowed in 2012, according
to a Bloomberg survey of economists ahead of data due today.
Spain, Italy and  Germany  are scheduled to release inflation
numbers for December.  U.S. retail sales probably rose in December as Americans
wrapped up their holiday shopping and auto dealers closed out
the best two months since 2008, economists surveyed by  Bloomberg
News  predicted. A Federal Reserve report may show New-York area
industrial activity stabilized in January, according to a
separate survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  