-- Japan to Sell Debt Worth 7.8 Trillion Yen to Pay for Stimulus
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2013-01-15T09:52:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/japan-to-sell-debt-worth-7-8-trillion-yen-to-pay-for-stimulus.html
Japan  will sell an additional 7.8
trillion yen ($88 billion) in bonds this fiscal year to help pay
for economic stimulus, the government said, slowing its attempt
to curb the world’s largest debt burden.  The  finance ministry  said today in Tokyo it will issue 5.5
trillion yen in construction bonds, while reducing deficit-
financing bonds by 299 billion yen, bringing new financing debt
sales for the year through March to 49.5 trillion yen. It will
also sell 2.6 trillion yen trillion yen in so-called bridge
bonds to finance pension payments.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe wants to spur growth to bring the
economy out of recession and end more than a decade of
deflation. The extra bond issuance may heighten concern that the
government’s commitment to fiscal reform is slipping, adding to
the risk that a public debt more than twice the size of the
economy may trigger a surge in bond yields.  “Abe’s stance on fiscal consolidation is still unclear,
whether he wants to pursue more spending combined with bond
sales or if it’s just limited to this latest supplementary
budget,” said Takahiro Sekido, a strategist at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd and a former  Bank of Japan (8301)  official.  The benchmark 10-year  bond yield  fell four basis points to
0.77 percent as of 5:48 p.m. today in Tokyo, the lowest level
this year. The securities  yielded  105 basis points less than
similar maturity U.S Treasuries, compared with 92 basis points a
year earlier.  Japan’s shorter-term bonds rallied last week, while longer-
term debt that is more sensitive to expectations for inflation
declined, widening the yield spread between the 30-year and 5-
year securities to the most since March 2010.  Extra Budget  Finance Minister Taro Aso said last month that the
government doesn’t need to adhere to a 44 trillion-yen cap on
new bond issuance in this fiscal year.  The Cabinet today approved a 13.1 trillion yen extra budget
to help pay for the economic stimulus plan unveiled last week.
On top of revenues from additional bond sales, the government
will use 2 trillion yen in excess reserves from the fiscal 2011
budget and 2.1 trillion yen in unused funds from this fiscal
year, the ministry said.  With the extra spending, total government expenditure for
this fiscal year will exceed 100 trillion yen. Total debt
issuance for the current fiscal year will reach 180.5 trillion
yen, according to the ministry.  Japan’s government debt probably climbed to 237 percent of
annual economic output last year, the most in the world,
according to International Monetary Fund estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in  Tokyo  at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  