-- Japanese Airlines Cancel Some Tokyo Flights as Snow Jams Traffic
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-01-15T01:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/japanese-airlines-cancel-some-tokyo-flights-as-snow-jams-traffic.html
Japanese airlines canceled some
domestic flights for a second day after  Tokyo ’s first snowfall
of the season caused some highways and train services to close.  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202) ,  Japan ’s largest listed carrier,
halted 21 flights today, affecting about 4,000 passengers,
Mitsuyo Ide, a company spokeswoman, said by phone.  Japan
Airlines Co. (9201)  suspended 12 domestic flights, with about 950
passengers affected as of 9:30 a.m., said Sayaka Sakamoto, a
spokeswoman for the carrier. No international flights had been
canceled as of 9 a.m., they said.  Some highways, including one running through Tokyo’s
Shinjuku district, were closed as of 8 a.m. today, according to
operator  Metropolitan Expressway Co. ’s website.  Snow disrupted flights, train services and road traffic
yesterday after the  Japan Meteorological Agency  issued a gale
and snow advisory for central Tokyo, where seven centimeters
(2.8 inches) of snow fell. Clear-to-cloudy  weather  is forecast
for Tokyo today with no snowfall, according to the agency’s
update on its website as of 5 a.m. Japan time.  East Japan Railway Co. (9020)  and  Central Japan Railway Co. (9022)  have
resumed normal bullet train services across the nation, after
some delays and cancellations yesterday, the operators said on
their respective websites. Services may be delayed as operators
investigate safety conditions, they said.  The  Nippori-Toneri Liner , run by the Tokyo Metropolitan
Government’s Bureau of Transportation, halted services as snow
froze onto tracks as of 9 a.m., according to its website.
Operations were expected to resume about 10 a.m., it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  