-- Jindal Steel Said to End Afferro Takeover Talks: Corporate India
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-01-16T14:52:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/jindal-steel-said-to-end-afferro-takeover-talks-corporate-india.html
Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP)  ended
talks to buy  Afferro Mining Inc. (AFF)  after assessing its Cameroon
iron ore reserves and will negotiate instead with two other
African miners, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  India’s  most valuable  steelmaker may have to invest as much
as $2 billion to build railway lines and related infrastructure
for the project, which it now judges to be too expensive, said
the people, who asked not to be identified, citing
confidentiality terms. The exclusivity period for talks with a
potential acquirer has ended, London-listed Afferro said
yesterday in a statement. The deadline was set for Jan. 13.  Jindal Steel, controlled by billionaire lawmaker Naveen Jindal, has intensified its search for the steel-making raw
material in  Africa  after a project in  Bolivia , expected to
provide access to more iron ore than all of India’s reserves,
failed. Restrictions to curb illegal mining and environmental
damages in India are forcing steel-makers to either import ore
or purchase mines overseas to ensure supplies to their mills.  “Mines allocations in India are difficult and there are
several regulatory hurdles that slow the process of starting a
mine,” said Abhisar Jain, an analyst at Centrum Broking Pvt. in
Mumbai. “This can jeopardize large investments being made in
steel projects in the country. Indian companies are walking a
tightrope, as there could be unforeseen problems overseas.”  Other Suitors  Jindal Steel is now in acquisition talks with two companies
that have mines in Africa, the people said, without identifying
the targets. With the exclusivity period ending, Afferro is free
to engage in talks with other potential suitors, including
 International Mining & Infrastructure Corp. (IMIC) , it said yesterday
in the statement.  “Further to yesterday’s announcement, we continue
discussions with all interested parties as before,” an Afferro
spokesman said today in an e-mailed statement.  The  shares  of Jindal Steel fell 3.1 percent to close at
429.55 rupees in Mumbai. The stock has dropped 14 percent in the
past year, compared with a 22 percent gain in the benchmark
 Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)  Afferro slumped 10 percent to 82.5 pence at
2:48 p.m. in  London , the biggest decline in more than 10 months.  Jindal Steel was close to acquiring an iron ore mine with
more than 1 billion tons of reserves in West Africa, Executive
Director Manish Kharbanda said in an interview on Oct. 18. The
project would need an investment of at least $2 billion in
phases, he had said, without identifying Afferro as the seller.  Early Approach  The company’s Nkout mine in Cameroon has estimated reserves
of 1.2 billion tons, with iron content of about 33 percent,
according to Afferro’s  website . Reserves at its Ntem and Akon
Hills mines have yet to be established, it said.  “We welcome the opportunity to commence formal discussions
and due diligence in connection with the potential acquisition
of the entire share capital of Afferro Mining,” International
Mining Chairman Haresh Damodar Kanabar said in a speech to
shareholders yesterday. The Leicester, U.K.-based company may
pay 115 pence to 140 pence for every issued and new share of
Afferro, the latter said in a statement on Dec. 31.  “The approach from IMIC is at a very early stage and there
can be no certainty that a formal offer will be forthcoming,”
Afferro said in the statement.  Jindal Steel plans to spend 350 billion rupees ($6.4
billion) to quadruple capacity to 13 million metric tons by
2015, Deputy Managing Director V.R. Sharma said in a July 19
interview. The expansion hinges on supply of iron ore from local
and overseas mines.  El Mutun  In July, Jindal Steel terminated a contract to build the
$2.1 billion El Mutun iron ore project in Bolivia, the biggest
investment project to be canceled since President Evo Morales
took office in 2006. The contract, signed in 2007, would have
given Jindal Steel the right to mine 20 billion tons of iron
ore, more than double  India ’s total reserves.  Jindal Steel withdrew from the project after Bolivia
offered a quarter of the 10 million cubic meters a day of
natural gas originally pledged and failed to provide enough land
for the project, New Delhi-based Jindal Steel said on July 17.
Jindal Steel  wrote off  more than $90 million, which it had
invested in the project. The company had planned to build a 1.7
million ton-per-year steel plant in addition to a sponge-iron
factory, a pellet unit and a power project.  Hajigak Ore  Jindal Steel is part of a group of Indian steel-makers and
miners that have been chosen to develop the Hajigak iron ore
project in  Afghanistan  at an investment of $11 billion. The
project may also include a steel plant, a railway line and a
power plant.  The group is led by state-run  Steel Authority of India Ltd. (SAIL) 
and comprises Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd., iron ore miner  NMDC
Ltd. (NMDC) ,  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL) ,  Monnet Ispat & Energy Ltd. (MISP)  and  JSW Ispat
Steel Ltd. (JSWI)   “Jindal has so far acquired early-stage mines, where there
aren’t great upfront investments involved,” said Prasad Baji,
an analyst with Edelweiss Financial Services in Mumbai. “This
has helped it de-risk the acquisitions. While the spate of
overseas acquisitions has been spurred by the current
difficulties, things may change if India manages to harness its
resources well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  