-- Karzai Faces Opposition to Giving U.S. Troops Immunity
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-01-15T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/karzai-faces-opposition-to-giving-u-s-troops-immunity.html
Afghan President  Hamid Karzai ’s
effort to grant immunity from prosecution to any U.S. troops who
remain in his country after 2014 is meeting opposition from some
tribal elders.  The prospect of keeping U.S. troops in Afghanistan to train
Afghan troops and conduct counterterrorism operations beyond the
end of next year will depend on whether Karzai wins support from
a “loya jirga,” a national assembly of elders.  Karzai faces resistance from leaders from southern
Afghanistan, an area of Taliban strength, who contend that
immunity would undermine Afghan sovereignty and permit American
abuses to go unpunished under Afghan law.  “With 11 years of war in Afghanistan, the U.S. troops have
committed heavy crimes, such as the last year’s killing of 17
Afghan civilians,” Abdul Ahad Helmandwal, a senior tribal elder
in southern Helmand province, said in a telephone interview.
“The killer should have been hanged, but still he is under U.S.
prosecution.”  He may have been referring to the case of U.S. Army Staff
Sergeant Robert Bales, who was flown out of  Afghanistan  to face
military prosecution for allegedly killing 16 Afghan villagers,
including nine children, in two southern Afghanistan villages
last year. The premeditated murder charges against him could
carry the death penalty.  “I personally don’t agree that U.S. troops should have
immunity from Afghan law, as this will let their troops commit
more crimes in Afghanistan,” the Afghan elder said. “But we
also have a weak and corrupted justice system to prosecute U.S.
troops.”  Islamic Law  Barekzai Kharoti, the head of the Helmand provincial
council and a senior tribal elder, said that while he opposes
immunity, he sees a continuing need for American security
forces.  “We want any remaining U.S. troops to be prosecuted under
our Islamic Afghan law, not under non-Islamic U.S. law, if they
commit any crimes in our country,” Kharoti said in a telephone
interview. “The U.S. may not agree on this, but their troops’
presence is also necessary for our future security.”  Karzai said Jan. 14 that he would convene a loya jirga to
decide whether to grant immunity from Afghan prosecution to U.S.
troops who remain in Afghanistan. The failure to negotiate a
similar agreement with the Iraqi government led to the
withdrawal of all U.S. combat forces from that country at the
end of 2011.  National Convention  Karzai last convened such a meeting of elders in November
2011, when he won support for negotiating a strategic security
pact with the U.S.  He said he would hold such a national gathering again
before accepting an accord that would include an immunity
provision.  “The Afghan government can’t decide on this,” Karzai
said. “The people of Afghanistan will decide on this, so a huge
loya jirga will be convened to take a decision.”  Edris Rahmani, a Kabul-based political analyst, said in a
telephone interview that he expects that Karzai “will convince
the elders by using his political power to make a positive
decision.”  Rahmani said Karzai may seek to strengthen his political
hand by seeking other concessions from the U.S. and securing
American backing for his choice as a candidate to succeed him in
presidential elections planned for April 2014.  Afghans Leading  The U.S. has 66,000 troops in Afghanistan as part of a
force of 102,000 that includes members from nations in the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization. U.S. President  Barack Obama  has
pledged that the bulk of those troops will be withdrawn by the
end of 2014, and the Australian government said yesterday that
most of its troops will be out of Afghanistan by the end of this
year.  Obama said at a Jan. 11 news conference with Karzai that
Afghan forces will take over the lead security role for their
country within a few months, sooner than planned. The U.S. and
Afghanistan are discussing the size of the residual force,
contingent on receiving immunity from prosecution in Afghan
courts.  “Nowhere do we have any kind of security agreement with a
country without immunity for our troops,” Obama said. “It will
not be possible for us to have any kind of U.S. troop presence
post-2014 without assurances” of such protection.  Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  said on Jan. 14,
following a visit to Afghanistan, that at least 10,000 U.S.
troops should remain “to provide adequate training and
counterterrorism in the post-2014 period, and we anticipate
forces from other countries who will remain here beyond 2014 as
well.”  Weighing Options  Obama and White House advisers said last week, amid
negotiations over an immunity agreement, that the administration
was still weighing options and wouldn’t rule out bringing all
U.S. troops home.  The Taliban said yesterday that the presence of U.S. forces
after 2014 -- regardless of the immunity issue -- would be a
signal for continuing war.  “As we said before, if Karzai and the Kabul regime agree
to the presence of even a single American soldier,” then they
would be “responsible for all future hostilities, casualties
and destruction,”  Zabihullah Mujahid , the movement’s spokesman,
said in a telephone interview.  Islamic law cannot not allow any non-Islamic countries to
“have military bases, or any type of military presence,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  