-- Kenya Shilling Heads for Seven-Month Low on Business Borrowing
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2013-01-15T13:28:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/kenya-shilling-heads-for-seven-month-low-on-business-borrowing.html
  Kenya ’s shilling headed for the
lowest in more than seven months amid speculation businesses
will increase their borrowing after the  central bank  slashed
interest rates more than expected.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy depreciated
less than 0.1 percent to 86.75 a dollar as of 4:04 p.m. in
Nairobi, the capital, poised for the weakest since May 30,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The shilling slipped 0.5 percent last week, the most since
the five days through Nov. 23, after the Central Bank of Kenya
cut its benchmark  interest rate  from 11 percent to 9.5 percent,
compared with a 1 percentage-point reduction forecast by seven
of 10 economists and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank,
which sold dollars yesterday, stayed out of the market today, an
official at the foreign-exchange department who asked not to be
identified in line with policy, said by phone.  “The shilling is sliding due to the rate-cut decision as
businesses find it cheaper to finance their imports by
borrowing,” Nairobi-based  NIC Bank Ltd. (NICB)  said in a note. “The
central bank intervened to sell dollars and mop up liquidity.”  The shilling is expected to depreciate “modestly” to the
88 a dollar level by year end and to 90 by 2014, Morgan Stanley
said in a research note released yesterday.  The central bank took 4 billion shillings ($46 million) of
seven-day  repurchase agreements  out of bids of 7 billion
shillings, having offered 4 billion shillings for sale. The
repos are used by the regulator to withdraw  money supply  from
banks and support the shilling.  The Ugandan shilling weakened 0.3 percent to 2,672.39 a
dollar, while Tanzania’s shilling gained 0.2 percent to 1,600 a
dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  