-- HKEx to Add Closing Auction; Sell Stakes in OTC Clearer
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-01-15T10:24:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/hkex-to-add-closing-auction-sell-stakes-in-otc-clearer.html
Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing
Ltd. (388)  plans to reintroduce a closing auction for its cash
equities market, Chief Executive Charles Li told reporters
today. The world’s No. 1 bourse operator by value will sell off
stakes in an over-the-counter derivative clearing subsidiary.  The Hong Kong bourse operator suspended the auction in
March 2009 after large moves at the end of the day spurred
concerns about price manipulation. Exchanges in most countries
use auctions to set closing prices by pooling share orders and
finding the level at which the most can be matched.  “It is something we will absolutely do,” Li said. “But
it is something we will do with a lot of consultation and time
spent so that people really truly understand it and at the same
time the big major investors who are really dying for these
services will be able to get it.”  Hong Kong  Exchanges, which regained its place as the
world’s  biggest exchange operator  by market value in December,
wants to become a hub for investors seeking access to  China  and
for Chinese hunting for global assets. The U.K. Financial
Services Agency approved Hong Kong’s takeover of the LME, the
venue for more than 80 percent of metals trading, in November.  The closing auction process, shunned only by Hong Kong and
 Shanghai  among the 10 biggest markets worldwide, may reduce
volatility and limit manipulation, according to a 2006 paper
tracking the introduction of the process at  Singapore ’s stock
exchange. Hong Kong now uses the median price from the final
five transactions in a stock to calculate its closing level.  Manipulation Concerns  International brokers and institutional investors have been
asking Hong Kong to reinstate the auction for certainty in
attaining the closing price while local independent brokers
oppose the auctions, saying they are a manipulation tool for the
bigger players.  “The people who don’t like closing auctions usually don’t
like it for the wrong reasons,” Li said. “There is a strong
fundamental need for this for us to have it in Hong Kong if we
want to be a real international market.”  Li declined to give any timeline for reintroduction of the
auction, saying he wanted to make sure there was a consensus
among market participants.  Hong Kong Exchanges will also focus on expanding its
derivatives offering this year, Li and Romnesh Lamba, co-head of
global markets, said at the press briefing. The bourse operator
plans to open its over-the-counter derivatives clearinghouse in
April.  Founding Members  “Right now, we are in the process of creating a founding-
member program where we’re planning to sell a minority stake in
our OTC clearing subsidiary to around 12 mainland and
international banks,” Lamba said. “We hope by doing this we
will secure a lot of volume in our OTC clearing.”  Clearinghouses cut risk by collecting collateral at the
start of each transaction, monitoring daily price moves and
making traders put up more cash as losses occur. Traders have to
deal through clearing members, typically the biggest banks and
brokerages. Unlike privately traded derivatives, prices for
cleared trades are set every day and publicly disclosed.  The company will introduce after-hours futures trading this
year, Lamba said.  The bourse operator is planning to build trading, clearing
and market-data platforms that will cater to all asset groups,
Li said. It is considering introducing fixed-income and
commodity derivatives, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  