-- King Criticizes Banks Looking to Delay U.K. Bonuses on Tax
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-01-15T14:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/king-criticizes-banks-looking-to-postpone-bonus-payments-on-tax.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
said it’s “depressing” that banks may be willing to shift
bonus payments to minimize employees’ tax burden.  “I find it a bit depressing that people who earn so much
seem to think it’s even more exciting to adjust the timing of it
to get the benefit of a lower  tax rate ,” King told lawmakers in
London today. It’s “lacking in care and attention to how others
might react. In the long run, financial institutions, like all
institutions, depend on the goodwill from society.”  King’s comments followed reports that  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  was considering delaying delivery of some bonuses due from
prior years for U.K. employees until after the top income-tax
rate falls on April 6. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  cut the top rate to 45 percent from 50 percent in his
last budget, saying the higher levy generated little revenue.  While Goldman Sachs had considered postponing incentive
compensation due to employees from 2009, 2010 and 2011, a person
familiar with the matter said today that it won’t delay the
distribution of the payouts.  King said that though delaying bonus payments “is clearly
not unlawful,” it is “clumsy.”  “This must have an impact on the rest of society, even now
it’s the rest of society which is suffering most from the
consequences of the financial crisis,” he said.  King has said previously that bank bonuses should be
limited if banks didn’t have enough money to build capital.  “It’s only the start of bonus season and already banks are
stirring controversy with their disconnect from the rest of
society,” said David Hillman, a spokesman for the Robin Hood
Tax campaign, a group of charities including Oxfam that want a
tax on financial transactions. “It’s time the government got a
grip.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  