-- Kingsoft Shares Rise to Highest in Three Years on Disposal Talks
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n   a n d   T e r j e   L a n g e l a n d
-- 2013-01-15T06:45:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/kingsoft-shares-rise-to-highest-in-three-years-on-disposal-talks.html
Kingsoft Corp. (3888) , the Chinese software
maker, rose to the highest level in almost three years in Hong
Kong trading after saying it’s in preliminary talks about a
“possible disposal.”  The shares gained as much as 3.5 percent to HK$6.81, headed
for the highest closing price since Jan. 19, 2010, and traded at
HK$6.73 as of 2:20 p.m. Kingsoft is in “preliminary discussions
with independent third parties relating to a possible
disposal,” the company said in a stock exchange statement
today. No definitive agreement has been reached, it said.  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , China’s biggest Internet company,
agreed in July 2011 to buy a 15.7 percent stake in Kingsoft for
HK$892 million ($115 million) to expand in computer-security
services.  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , owner of China’s most popular search
engine, may want to invest in Kingsoft to boost competitiveness
against companies including  Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU) , said Eric
Qiu, an analyst at Guosen Securities Co. in Hong Kong.  “Investing in Kingsoft would bring benefits to both
companies,” Qiu said. “Baidu has been quite weak in terms of
antivirus software and Web browsers. Kingsoft has always had
expertise in these areas and a good user base.”  Kaiser Kuo, a spokesman for Beijing-based Kingsoft,
declined to comment. Baidu said in November the $1.5 billion
raised in its debut bond issue will serve as a “war chest” for
strategic uses including possible acquisitions.  Chen Feng, Kingsoft’s board secretary, also declined to
comment.  Kingsoft rose 8.4 percent in Hong Kong yesterday and is up
24 percent this year, compared with a 3.2 percent gain in the
city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)  The company offers products
including office software,  Internet security  and online games.  China, the world’s largest Internet market by users, is
promoting information safety as it encourages more consumers to
shop online and expands telecommunication networks to cover
remote villages. The government plans to increase e-commerce
transactions to more than 18 trillion  yuan  ($2.9 trillion) by
2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net ;
Terje Langeland in Tokyo at 
 tlangeland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  