-- Kocherlakota Says Fed Should Do More on Unemployment
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-01-15T18:03:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/kocherlakota-says-fed-should-do-more-on-unemployment.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said the central bank should do
more to boost hiring by aiming to meet a lower jobless-rate
threshold before policy makers raise their main interest rate.  The Fed can “provide more needed stimulus” by reducing
the unemployment-rate threshold to 5.5 percent from 6.5 percent,
Kocherlakota said in a speech today in Golden Valley,  Minnesota .
Growth will remain “moderate” and inflation will be below the
Fed’s 2 percent target for the next two years under current
policy, he said, while estimating unemployment will be above 7
percent.  Four years  after cutting  interest rates  to near zero, the
 Federal Open Market Committee  is turning to communication
policies to combat unemployment, which remained at  7.8 percent 
in December. The FOMC said last month it will keep rates near
zero as long as the jobless rate is above 6.5 percent and
inflation is forecast to be 2.5 percent or less. They said
previously that rates would stay low until at least mid-2015.  “The FOMC could facilitate a faster return of the
 unemployment rate  to its lower long-run level by adopting a more
accommodative monetary policy that puts more upward pressure on
employment,” said Kocherlakota, who doesn’t vote on the policy-
setting committee until next year. “My outlook for unemployment
and my outlook for inflation both point to a need for more
accommodation.”  GDP Growth  Kocherlakota, 49, said that gross domestic product probably
will expand by about 2.5 percent this year and 3 percent in
2014. Inflation measured by the personal consumption
expenditures index will probably be 1.6 percent this year and
1.9 percent next year, below the Fed’s 2 percent goal, he said.  Evidence suggests that increasing accommodation would not
cause an “undue amount of inflation,” the Minneapolis Fed
chief said. The “medium-term” outlook for price increases
hasn’t exceeded 2.25 percent for the past 15 years, even as the
jobless rate during that period fell below 5 percent, he said.  While inflation above 2.5 percent “would be a cause for
concern,” reducing the unemployment rate threshold to 5.5
percent would not cause inflation expectations to escalate,
Kocherlakota told reporters after his speech concluded.  “It doesn’t set you up for overheating,” he said.  Inflation Threshold  Fed officials are constantly evaluating whether the
unemployment rate is at risk of becoming permanently elevated
and what the implications of that would be for price increases,
Kocherlakota told reporters. The longer unemployment remains
elevated, the higher the probability it will become structural,
he said. The Fed’s 2.5 percent inflation threshold means the
policy has a built-in guard against price increases, he said.  “The thresholds that we have in place provide protection
to us as we continue to think about this question of structural
versus cyclical,” he told reporters. “Where would that
manifest itself? It would manifest itself in higher wage
pressures for a given level of unemployment and higher
inflation.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined a third day,
retreating 0.1 percent to 1,468.98 as of 12:30 p.m. in  New York .
The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note also slipped,
dropping 0.02 percentage point to 1.83 percent.  The possibility that reducing the jobless-rate threshold to
5.5 percent would ignite inflation is “unlikely,” Kocherlakota
said in his speech. Still, if it does happen, policy makers can
use forward guidance to provide safeguards, he told the
Financial Planning Association of Minnesota.  ‘Unlikely’  “Guidance clearly states that the committee’s commitment
to a low fed funds rate is off the table if the medium-term
inflation outlook ever rises above 2.5 percent,” Kocherlakota
said. “I see it as unlikely that this threshold would ever be
breached, even if the committee were to lower the unemployment
threshold to 5.5 percent.”  Gross domestic product grew at a 3.1 percent annual rate in
the third quarter, rebounding after it slowed to 1.3 percent in
the second quarter from 2 percent in the first, according to
Commerce Department data. Growth this year will be 2 percent,
according to the median of 96 economist estimates in a Bloomberg
survey.  Fed officials said in their forecast last month they don’t
expect to raise the main interest rate until 2015, when they
project the jobless rate will fall to between 6 percent and 6.6
percent. GDP growth this year will be 2.3 percent to 3 percent,
compared with September’s forecast of 2.5 percent to 3 percent.  Kocherlakota was among the earliest advocates of tying the
Fed’s interest-rate policy to economic data, first calling for
the change in a speech in September. The FOMC adopted a
variation of what the district bank president advocated in the
committee’s December meeting.  Kocherlakota was born in Baltimore, grew up in  Canada ,
entered  Princeton University  in  New Jersey  at the age of 15 and
received a doctorate from the  University of Chicago  at 23. He
was an economics professor at the  University of Minnesota  before
becoming head of the regional bank in October 2009. He was an
economist at the bank from 1996 to 1998.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Minneapolis at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  