-- New York City Man Pleads Not Guilty in Subway Push Death
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-01-15T21:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/naeem-davis-pleads-not-guilty-in-n-y-subway-pushing-death.html
A New York man pleaded not guilty to
charges that he pushed another man to his death on the tracks of
a subway station in  Manhattan , the first of two such incidents
last month.  Naeem Davis, 30, entered the plea today during a hearing
before New York State Supreme Court Justice Bonnie Wittner in
Manhattan. Davis was indicted by a grand jury on charges of
second-degree murder and first-degree manslaughter and faces
life in prison if convicted.  Davis is accused of pushing 58-year-old Ki-Suck Han of
Queens onto the tracks at the station at 49th Street and Seventh
Avenue on Dec. 3, according to court documents and statements
from police. Han was struck by a train entering the station and
killed. Davis was arrested the next day.  Erika Menendez, 31, was indicted yesterday on one count of
second-degree murder as a hate crime and two counts of second-
degree murder for allegedly pushing a 46-year-old man to his
death last month in front of a subway train in Queens, that
borough’s district attorney, Richard Brown, said.  Menendez was found mentally fit to stand trial following a
psychiatric evaluation, Brown said yesterday. She also faces
life in prison if convicted.  Davis, who is being held without bail, is scheduled to
return to court on Jan. 25.  Street Vendors  He told police he was working for several street vendors
the day of the incident and was on his way downtown to buy
merchandise when he saw an Asian man yelling near the clerk’s
booth, according to court filings in the case.  Davis told detectives he had entered the station when the
man jumped the turnstiles, hit him with his shoulder and began
yelling and cursing and threatening to kill him, according to
the court filings.  Davis told police he pushed the man toward the tracks after
he grabbed his shirt and left arm and watched as the man
“rolled like a bowling ball” and was struck by the train,
according to the court filings.  Davis said he left the station, and he told detectives he
blamed himself, should have known better and “shouldn’t have
let this happen,” according to the court filings. Davis told
police he slept overnight near the station in a van belonging to
one of the vendors before he was apprehended the next day.  Earlier Incident  Davis said he was defending himself and wasn’t trying to
hurt the man, according to the court filings. He said he was
still upset over an incident two days earlier when another
person threw away his boots, according to the filings.  Davis told police he came to the U.S. from Sierra Leone in
1989 and attended college in  Pennsylvania , where he got a degree
in applied science, according to the court filings. He said he
tried to become a state trooper in Pennsylvania and failed
because he was arrested for owning a potato gun, according to
the filings. He said he has been in the New York area since 2007
and has no family in the city.  Davis told investigators he works as a dishwasher at a
waterfront restaurant overnight and helps street vendors during
the day by setting up stands, selling merchandise and picking up
new goods, according to the court documents.  The suspect’s attorney, Stephen Pokart, told reporters
after today’s hearing that Han initiated the contact, went after
Davis and followed him down the platform. Pokart said he’s
seeking witnesses to help shed light on what happened that day.  ‘Don’t Know’  “We don’t know why Mr. Han did that,” Pokart said.  Pokart said he’s afraid the case may prompt racial
stereotypes given the initial description of the man who pushed
Han onto the platform as a 6-foot (1.8-meter), 200-pound
(91-kilogram) black man with dreadlocks, as opposed to Davis: a
5-foot, 9-inch 140-pound black man who says he has never had
dreadlocks.  “We don’t believe Mr. Davis is a murderer,” Pokart said.
“We don’t think he’s an evil person.”  New York has the busiest U.S. subway system, with about
5.7 million daily passengers, according to the Metropolitan
Transportation Authority, which operates the network.  The MTA has increased the number of audio announcements in
stations warning riders to stay back from the edge of the
platform after the incidents, and it’s considering other
measures to improve safety, said Deirdre Parker, a spokeswoman
for the agency. A total of 141 people were stuck by subway
trains last year, 55 of whom died, she said.  Slow Down  The Transportation Workers Union Local 100 has urged train
operators to slow down, blow their horns and proceed with
caution, telling drivers to “enter every station as if there is
a pair of yellow lanterns at the entrance,” according to a
 flyer  posted on the union’s website.  The union is asking operators to slow down to 10 miles per
hour while entering stations, well below the 30 mph that is
allowed, said Charles Seaton, a spokesman for the MTA. Such a
cut in speed would lead to overcrowded trains and stations and
could cause even more hazardous conditions, Seaton said.  “We’ve seen no indication” that operators are slowing
down upon entering stations,” Seaton said.  The case is New York v. Davis, 05549-2012, New York state
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  