-- NBA’s Knicks Seek Rest, Bonding in London Before Playing Pistons
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-01-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/nba-s-knicks-seek-rest-bonding-in-london-before-playing-pistons.html
New York Knicks coach  Mike Woodson 
said his team’s trip to London will give the  National Basketball
Association ’s oldest squad a rare opportunity to rest and reset
in the middle of a season.  The Knicks (24-13) face the  Detroit Pistons  (14-24) on Jan.
17 at the 02 Arena, the league’s third game in the U.K. capital.
Tickets for the contest, which will air live on NBATV at 3:00
p.m. Eastern time, sold out in four days.  Woodson said yesterday at the team’s practice facility in
Tarrytown, New York, that the contest, the Knicks’ only game in
a seven-day stretch, will give players a chance to rest, bond
and work out away from the distractions of home. The Knicks
accepted NBA Commissioner  David Stern ’s offer to play in London
because the week will have a mini-camp feel, he said.  “It’s an opportunity for me and the players to bond and
spend some time together away from the States,” Woodson said.
“It’s a great atmosphere that we’re going into, and we’ll get
back to work when we get back.”  The Knicks have an average age of more than 32, the oldest
roster in the NBA. The Pistons have only two players over 30 --
32-year-old Tayshaun Prince and 33-year-old Corey Maggette.  This week’s game -- the 16th regular-season NBA contest
outside the U.S. or Canada -- is part of the league’s continued
global expansion. Stern, who is retiring next February after 30
years, said this month there may be NBA franchises in  Europe  in
the next two decades.  “I think multiple NBA international teams,” Stern said in
an interview with  ESPN Radio . “Twenty years from now? For sure.
In Europe.”  International Exhibitions  The NBA has held international exhibition games since 1988,
including contests in Turkey, Italy, Germany and China in the
2012 preseason. The 15 regular-season games have been played in
Japan, Mexico and the U.K.  “It’s great for the business,” Knicks forward Amar’e Stoudemire said yesterday. “Any time you can expand your brand
globally, it’s awesome for everyone -- the players, the NBA and
every organization involved.”  In March 2011, the  Toronto Raptors  and  New Jersey Nets 
played a pair of sold-out games at the O2 in London, the first
regular-season NBA games in the U.K.  There were 84 international players from 37 countries on
NBA rosters at the start of this season, including two Britons -
- All-Star forward  Luol Deng  of the  Chicago Bulls  and forward
Joel Freeland of the  Portland Trail Blazers . The Knicks’ only
international player is Argentinean Pablo Prigioni. Detroit has
Ukrainian Viacheslav Kravtsov and Jonas Jerebko of Sweden.  The Knicks snapped a three-game losing streak with a 100-87
win against the  New Orleans Hornets  on Jan. 13. New York leads
the Eastern Conference’s Atlantic division, two games ahead of
the Brooklyn Nets.  Time Difference  The Knicks flew out last night and were scheduled to arrive
in London this morning. They will be off today and will hold a
public practice tomorrow at the arena, according to spokesman
 Jonathan Supranowitz .  Knicks guard  Steve Novak  said the 3,500-mile (5,633-
kilometer) flight and the time difference would not be a
distraction when the team takes the floor. London is five hours
ahead of New York, while the farthest domestic NBA road trip is
a three-hour difference.  “We’ve done the West Coast trip and we all know what that
feels like,” Novak said. “We look at it like another West
Coast trip, even though it’s overseas.”  The game marks a return to London for Knicks forward
 Carmelo Anthony  and center  Tyson Chandler , who were part of the
U.S. men’s basketball team that won the gold medal at the 2012
Olympics in August. Anthony was the second-leading scorer on the
team, which went 8-0 during the tournament and beat Spain in the
final.  Pistons Hosting  The Pistons, who are sacrificing a home game to “host”
the Knicks in  London , headed overseas yesterday with a traveling
party of about 150, team spokesman Kevin Grigg said in an e-mail.
As part of a promotion with four media partners, the team is
hosting five fans and a guest each during their U.K. stay, Grigg
said.  Detroit guard Rodney Stuckey said on the team’s website
that he’s never been to London and will try to see some of the
city today and tomorrow.  “I’m excited,” the 26-year-old Stuckey said. “It’ll be a
fun trip.”  Stoudemire, who has played seven games since returning from
a left knee injury, said the voyage has a feel similar to a
preseason trip the team took to France and Italy in 2010. He
said the players came together overseas, and that he was
impressed by the knowledge and passion of the fans.  “You realize that you have fans across the world,” he
said. “There are fans who love the NBA, who love the Knicks and
love individual players as well around the world.”  -- Editor: Rob Gloster  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  