-- Northeast May See Snow From Storm Already Causing Travel Delays
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-01-15T15:07:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/northeast-may-see-snow-from-storm-already-causing-travel-delays.html
New York  City’s northern and western
suburbs may receive as much as 4 inches (10 centimeters) of snow
overnight from a storm system that has already canceled flights
in Dallas and threatens to coat the southern Mississippi Valley
with ice.  In Manhattan the storm will bring mainly rain because
temperatures are expected to remain above the freezing mark of
32 degrees Fahrenheit (0 Celsius) along the coast, said Rob Carolan, a meteorologist and founder of Hometown Forecast
Services in Nashua, New Hampshire.  “The decent snowfall will be in the northern half of
Westchester County, Orange County and in Putnam County, away
from the city,” Carolan said. “There is going to be a swath
that sees 3 to 4 inches of snow.”  The system has prompted winter weather advisories from
 Texas  to Massachusetts and an ice storm warning from northern
Louisiana to western Tennessee, including Memphis. About an inch
of slush covers roads in Dallas and Fort Worth making travel
difficult, according to the  National Weather Service .  At least 116 flights from the  Dallas/Fort Worth
International Airport  have been canceled and another 129 flights
to that destination have been scrubbed, according to
FlightAware, a Houston-based airline tracking company.  The icing across the south may be enough to bring down
branches and power lines, causing some outages, Carolan said.
The ice may eventually reach up through the Appalachian
Mountains and into  West Virginia  before tomorrow.  In the Northeast, the snow is also expected to fall across
northwestern  New Jersey , central Connecticut and Massachusetts,
Carolan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  