-- Norway Krone Slumps as Qvigstad Sees Rate Influence: Oslo Mover
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d
-- 2013-01-15T15:36:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/norway-s-krone-slumps-as-qvigstad-sees-rate-effect-oslo-mover.html
Norway ’s krone slumped to the lowest
level in more than two months versus the euro after central bank
Deputy Governor Jan F. Qvigstad signaled persistent currency
strength would influence the bank’s next rate decision in March.  The currency, which has emerged as a haven from  Europe ’s
debt crisis, slid as much as 0.8 percent against the euro to the
lowest level since Oct. 31 and 1.2 percent versus the dollar. It
traded at 7.4205 per euro and at 5.5540 per dollar as of 4:28
p.m. in Oslo, making it the worst-performing major currency
versus both the euro and the greenback.  “If the kroner is as strong as it is now for a long time,
also until March, that of course has an obvious effect on the
 interest rate ,” Qvigstad said in Bergen, Norway today, after
holding a speech at the Norwegian School of Economics.  Policy makers kept the bank’s overnight deposit rate on
unchanged at 1.5 percent for a fifth meeting last month and
signaled a possible rate increase as soon as March after low
borrowing costs fueled household credit growth and sent  house
prices  to records. Since then the import-weighted krone index
reached 84.7 this month, the strongest level since at least
1999. The index has appreciated beyond the bank’s 85.75 forecast
for this year. A lower reading indicates a stronger currency.  Talking Down  “Norges attempts to talk the krone down,”  Henrik Gullberg , a senior currency strategist at Deutsche Bank AG, said
in a note to clients. “These comments from Norges Bank Deputy
Governor Qvigstad show that the bank is getting uncomfortable
with the pace of appreciation in the trade-weighted krone.”  Norway, which is backed by a $700 billion wealth fund and
boasts the largest budget surplus of any AAA rated nation, has
provided investors refuge from Europe’s debt crisis. Krone gains
have helped pushed inflation well below the central bank’s 2.5
percent target.  “The kroner is now at a record strength, that’s true, but
our experience is also that when people try to make a profit out
of that, they discover that the liquidity of the Norwegian
market is quite limited,” Qvigstad said.  The world’s fourth-richest nation per capita is
withstanding a recession in the euro area, and even displaying
signs of overheating, amid record investment in Norway’s
petroleum industry. House prices have doubled since 2002 and
were up an annual 7.7 percent last year, according to the
Norwegian Association of Real Estate Agents.  Weak global growth prospects abroad have curtailed the
central bank’s scope to address overheating risks without
fueling krone gains. Central bankers in the euro area, the U.S.
and  Japan  have resorted to additional stimulus, pushing rate
increases further out in time.  Norwegian policy makers cut the bank’s benchmark twice
since December 2011 as the krone’s strength threatens exporters
in the Nordic nation. Exports fell an annual 9.7 percent in
December, according to a statement by  Statistics Norway  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Reed in Oslo on  at
 areed12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  