-- Norway Plans 90% Gas Tariff Cut in Blow to Gassled Investors
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r   a n d   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-01-15T15:27:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/norway-proposes-gassled-tariff-cut-to-boost-exploration-1-.html
Norway  proposed cutting tariffs to
ship gas through its pipelines by 90 percent, in a blow to funds
that have spent more than $5 billion since 2010 buying stakes in
the infrastructure of western  Europe ’s largest gas producer.  Norway proposed lowering the prices charged by Gassled,
whose owners include Canadian pension funds and a  UBS AG (UBSN) 
infrastructure fund, the Oslo-based Oil and Energy Ministry said
today. The reduction would apply to new contracts.  “Norwegian policy has always been to take out the super-
profits on these resources and tax it heavily,” Oil and Energy
Minister Ola Borten Moe said today in an interview in
Sandefjord, Norway. “We’re well within the boundaries of our
job and our mandate as regulator. There will still be very good
returns in Gassled after these changes.”  Gassled, a joint venture created in 2003 between oil and
gas companies operating on the Norwegian continental shelf, owns
Norway’s gas transport infrastructure. Its biggest owners are
now state-owned Petoro AS and Solveig Gas Norway AS. The so-
called K-Element for tariffs would be cut to 0.55 krone from 5.5
kroner in area A, to 0.35 krone from 3.5 kroner in area B and to
1 krone from 10 kroner in area C, according to the proposal.  Meeting Obligations  Gassled had gross tariffs of 25 billion kroner ($4.5
billion) in 2011, according Gassco AS, the operator of the
network that ships gas to the U.K.,  France ,  Belgium  and  Germany .  The company is “concerned about the implications of the
proposal for the Gassled owners and the long-term development of
the gas transportation infrastructure,” said Njord Gas
Infrastructure AS, a subsidiary of UBS International
Infrastructure Fund and CDC Infrastructure SA. Njord, which owns
8 percent, agreed to buy its stake in April 2010 from  Exxon
Mobil Corp (XOM) , for undisclosed sum.  “Significant parts of the Gassled system are already
booked for several years to come and so, the potential
implications for the company aren’t substantial in the short to
medium term, but will increase,” Njord said today in a
statement. “However, based on a preliminary analysis of the
implications of the proposal, the company forecasts that it will
generate sufficient cash to service its debt obligations.”  Njord has outstanding bonds in pounds, Norwegian kroner and
dollars totaling $684 million. Solveig Gas has a 1 billion
kroner bond maturing in 2027 that was sold last year. There was
no pricing available.  The yield on Njord’s 5.241 percent pound-denominated bond
maturing in 2027 jumped 40 basis points to 4.34 percent as of
12:10 p.m. in  London .  Producers Sell  Solveig said in a statement that a cut in tariffs will be
“significantly” offset by lower income taxes and that
calculations indicate that the concession life coverage and debt
ratio will remain above 1.2-1 until “at least” 2017. “As a
result, these ratios remain above the level which would
otherwise prevent distributions to shareholders.”  Statoil ASA (STL) , which is 67 percent owned by the Norwegian
state, sold a 24 percent stake in Gassled in 2011 for 17.35
billion kroner, bringing its holding down to 5 percent. The
stake was bought by Solveig, a company owned by  Canada  Pension
Plan Investment Board, Allianz Capital Partners, a subsidiary of
Allianz, and Infinity Investments SA, a unit of the Abu Dhabi
Investment Authority.  Total AS and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  also sold stakes in
Gassled in 2011.  Shell in September 2011 agreed to sell its 5 percent stake
for 3.9 billion kroner to Infragas Norge AS, a unit of Canada’s
Public Sector Pension Investment Board. Total in June 2011
agreed to sell its 6.4 percent stake for 4.6 billion kroner to
Silex Gas Norway AS, owned by Allianz.  Other owners include  GDF Suez (GSZ)  AS, which owns 0.3 percent
and ConocoPhillips, which has 1.7 percent.  To contact the reports responsible for this story:
Stephen Treloar at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  