-- Norwegian Air Plans Asia Routes as New York Seats Sell Fast
-- B y   K r i s t i n   M y e r s   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-01-15T14:33:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/norwegian-air-plans-asia-hubs-as-new-york-tickets-selling-out.html
Norwegian Air Shuttle AS (NAS) ,  Europe ’s
fourth-biggest discount airline, said tickets for the first few
months of long-haul flights connecting  Scandinavia  with New York
have almost sold out as it works on plans for routes to Asia.  Norwegian Air will commence  twice weekly  services to New
York’s John F. Kennedy Airport from both Oslo and Stockholm in
May using  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 Dreamliner planes due for delivery in
April as it challenges Nordic rival  SAS Group. (SAS)   “When we opened for sale, our website crashed,” Chief
Executive Officer Bjorn Kjos said today in an interview in the
Norwegian capital. New York flights are “just about sold out,”
he said, declining to specify the number of seats available.  Norwegian Air will also start flying to Bangkok three times
a week in June, and aims to add a second Asian base within five
years at most, Kjos added. The carrier will offer a third weekly
New York flight from Oslo and  Stockholm  the same month.  Asian travelers, especially those from China, are likely to
account for 90 percent of tickets between the Far East and
Europe within 15 years, the executive said. That will swing the
dynamics of long-haul demand toward leisure travel, favoring
low-cost operators and meaning that airlines will themselves
need to be increasingly international, Kjos said.  787 Backing  “The future will be changes in the long-haul arena,” he
said, adding that the increasing number of flights over  Russia 
should allow for flows from Asia into Europe.  Kjos said he’s not “at all” concerned about delays to the
787 after Boeing’s latest model suffered a series of glitches,
including a fire on a Japan Airlines Co. jet in Boston.  “There will be a lot of incidents on new planes,” he said.
“There are fewer failures with the Dreamliner compared to the
777.” Kjos added that Boeing had confirmed in an e-mail that
production of his company’s eight planes is on schedule.  The focus of Norwegian Air’s business has been on European
discount flights, where the carrier has generally avoided going
toe-to-toe with market No. 1  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , the CEO said.  “We don’t like to compete with Ryanair directly if we have
to fly with Scandinavian costs,” he said. “We don’t have any
problem competing with Ryanair with the same cost base.”  Norwegian Air shares traded up 4 percent at 174.2 kroner at
3:31 p.m. in Oslo. The stock has added 21 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristin Myers in Oslo at 
 kmyers16@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  