-- O’Neill Says BOJ Must Show Seriousness for Yen Drop: Tom Keene
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2013-01-15T19:53:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/o-neill-says-boj-must-show-seriousness-for-yen-to-extend-decline.html
The  Bank of Japan  must show it is
serious about increasing inflation for the yen to weaken further
as part of a plan to stimulate economic growth, according to
Goldman Sachs Asset Management Chairman  Jim O’Neill .  “Classical indicators suggest it’s a little bit
oversold,” O’Neill said on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . The Bank of  Japan  “has got to show its going to take
this 2 percent inflation target seriously. Rather than just a
goal, it has to be a target. And I think we need to see
continued evidence of the U.S. doing better.”  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe urged the central bank
to double its 1 percent inflation target in an economic and
fiscal policy meeting on Jan. 9 to end the deflationary spiral
that has weighed on growth. The BOJ will hold its first meeting
this year on Jan. 21-22. The yen touched 89.67 per dollar
yesterday, the weakest level since June 2010, and has dropped 12
percent since September.  “To get dollar-yen north of 100 and higher we need to see
the other side of it,” O’Neill said from  London . “We need to
see that the BOJ is serious and the U.S. is strengthening
despite fiscal tightening.”  Several members of the  Federal Reserve ’s Federal Open
Market Committee advocated cutting the $85 billion monthly
buying of Treasuries and mortgage debt in 2013, according to
minutes of their Dec. 11-12 meeting released earlier this month.
The purchases, the Fed’s third round of so-called quantitative
easing since 2008, tend to debase the currency.  Currency Rebound  The yen rose the most since May versus the dollar today on
an intraday basis as Japanese Economy Minister Akira Amari said
households and imports may be hurt by a weak currency. The yen
appreciated 0.9 percent to 88.72 per dollar at 2:36 p.m.  New
York  time, after trading as low as 89.63.  The Japanese government’s power to appoint a new governor
of the  Bank of Japan (8301)  is critical to its policy direction, said
O’Neill, who noted that the central bank is coming under unusual
pressure from businesses right now.  “If they play their typical role and say ‘we hear you but
there’s nothing we can do about it,’” markets might be
disappointed, he said. “But the pressure on the BOJ coming from
corporate Japan is much bigger than we’ve seen in a long time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Taylor Tepper in New York at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  