-- Hong Leong Capital Jumps on Buyout Offer: Kuala Lumpur Mover
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-01-15T02:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/hong-leong-capital-jumps-on-buyout-offer-kuala-lumpur-mover.html
Hong Leong Capital (HLG)  Bhd., a unit of
the Malaysian insurance and banking group controlled by
billionaire Quek Leng Chan, surged to a five-year high after
receiving a buyout offer from its parent.  Hong Leong Capital, which holds the group’s investment
banking assets, jumped as much as 23 percent to 1.75 ringgit in
Kuala Lumpur trading today. It pared gains to 1.72 ringgit as of
10:20 a.m. and was poised for its highest close since January
2008. The stock was today’s biggest gainer on the  Bursa Malaysia
Finance Index. (KLFIN)   Hong Leong Financial Group Bhd. (HLFG) , which already owns 79.09
percent of Hong Leong Capital, offered 1.71 ringgit per share
for the remaining stake it doesn’t already own, according to
yesterday’s  Kuala Lumpur  stock exchange filing. That’s a 20
percent premium to its last traded price of 1.42 ringgit before
the counter was halted on Jan. 11.  “This would be an opportunity for shareholders to cash out
at a decent price,” Desmond Ch’ng, an analyst at Malayan
Banking Bhd., wrote in a report today. “Hong Leong Capital has
historically traded at a discount to book value given the lack
of liquidity and interest.”  The proposal would streamline the Hong Leong group, cutting
its listed financial units in Kuala Lumpur to two from three.
Hong Leong Financial said it doesn’t plan to maintain Hong Leong
Capital’s listing status.  The buyout should have a neutral financial impact on Hong
Leong Financial, Ch’ng said, maintaining Maybank’s buy rating
with a higher price target of 15.70 ringgit, compared with 15.60
ringgit previously.  Hong Leong Financial fell 0.1 percent to 14.40 ringgit,
while the  benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index rose 0.2
percent. Hong Leong Bank Bhd., the group’s retail banking unit
which isn’t involved in the transaction, was unchanged at 14.98
ringgit.  Hong Leong Capital provides investment banking, stock and
futures broking as well as fund-management services through its
units Hong Leong Investment Bank Bhd. and Hong Leong Asset
Management Bhd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey in  Hong Kong  at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  