-- TOP Oil Market News: Crude Falls From 4-Month High in New York
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-01-15T07:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/top-oil-market-news-crude-falls-from-4-month-high-in-new-york.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Oil Falls From Four-Month High as U.S. Stockpiles Seen Gaining  Oil fell in New York as investors speculated that a rally
to the highest level in almost four months was excessive amid
rising stockpiles and concern the U.S. economic recovery may be
derailed by a budget dispute.  Oil Supply Rises in Survey as U.S. Output Climbs: Energy Markets  U.S. crude oil inventories probably increased a second week
after production climbed to the highest level in almost 20 years,
a Bloomberg survey showed.  Ex-BP Engineer Criminal Trial Over Spill-Size Data Postponed (1)  The trial of a former BP Plc engineer charged with
destroying evidence sought for a U.S. probe of the 2010 Gulf of
Mexico oil spill will be postponed to June 10, a judge said.  South Korea’s Oil Imports From  Iran  Rise 24% From a Year Earlier  South Korea’s imports of oil from Iran increased 24
percent in December from a year earlier.  Asia Gasoil Crack Rebounds; Naphtha Swaps Increase: Oil Products  Asia’s gasoil crack spread rebounds, signaling rising
profit for refiners making diesel. Naphtha and fuel oil swaps
increase.  Fuel Oil Supplies to Asia Next Month Rise 12% From a Week Ago  Fuel oil bookings rose 12 percent from a week ago for
cargoes from Western countries arriving next month in Asia,
according to shipping data compiled by Bloomberg.  Repsol Said to Expect $2.7 Billion LNG Asset Sale by February  Repsol SA, Spain’s largest energy company, expects to sell
liquefied natural gas assets for about 2 billion euros ($2.7
billion) by early February, according to a person familiar with
the matter.  Indian Oil Extends Closing Date of March-Loading Crude Tender  Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s largest refiner, extended
the closing date of a tender to buy West African crude for
loading in March, an amended document obtained by Bloomberg News
shows.  Natural Gas Climbs to Two-Week High on Forecasts of Cold Weather  Natural gas futures advanced to a two-week high in New York
on forecasts of colder-than-normal weather that would spur
demand for the heating fuel.  Oil Bulls Raise Wagers on Signs Economy Growing: Energy Markets  Hedge funds boosted bullish oil bets to the highest level
in more than three months on signs that economic growth has
accelerated in the U.S. and  China , increasing demand, while
supplies from the Middle East declined.  OPEC  Saudi Arabia Says Oil Production Cut Not Designed to Boost Price  Saudi Arabia denied what it said were suggestions that it
cut oil production in December to push crude prices higher and
accused unidentified media of misinterpreting the kingdom’s
response to weaker demand.  Saudi Arabia Cuts December Crude Production: Persian Gulf Oil  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest crude exporter, cut
production in December to the lowest level in 19 months,
reducing output to 9.025 million barrels a day, an official with
knowledge of the kingdom’s energy policy said.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  United Warren Has Flaring After Power Outage: NRC Filing  United Warren had flaring after a power failure at the
Pennsylvania refinery, according to a filing with the National
Response Center.  Flint Hills Has Fire at Corpus Christi Refinery, NRC Filing Says  Flint Hills Resources LLC flared materials at its Corpus
Christi refinery in  Texas  after a fire at the plant, according
to a filing with the U.S. National Response Center.  BP Cherry Point Has Emissions at Washington Refinery: NRC Filing  BP Cherry Point had flaring, possibly because of leaky valve
at the Washington state refinery, according to a filing with the
National Response Center.  CPC Plans Talin Refinery No. 11 Crude Unit Maintenance in August  CPC Corp.,  Taiwan ’s state-run oil company, tentatively
plans to halt the No. 11 crude distillation unit and a residual
oil cracker at its Talin refinery from August for regular
maintenance, said a company official who asked not to be
identified citing internal policy.  Equipment at Chevron El Segundo Plant Said Damaged in Fire (1)  A fire yesterday at Chevron Corp.’s El Segundo refinery,
 California ’s largest, damaged equipment associated with the
plant’s fluid catalytic cracker, a person with knowledge of the
refinery’s operations said.  BP Carson Said to Shut Hydrocracker, Hydrotreater for Work  BP Plc’s Carson oil refinery, California’s second-largest,
has shut the hydrocracker and a jet hydrotreater for unplanned
repairs, a person with direct knowledge of operations at the
plant said.  Tesoro Martinez Hydrocracker Seen Back at Full Rates This Week  Tesoro Corp.’s Golden Eagle refinery in Northern California
finished repairs on a hydrocracker and is expected to return the
unit to full rates within in two to three days, a person with
direct knowledge of the work said.  Suncor Plans Turnaround at Alberta Upgrader During April and May  Suncor Energy Inc. plans a maintenance turnaround at its
350,000-barrel-a-day Fort McMurray oil sands upgrader during
April and May.  Fire at Chevron El Segundo Oil Refinery Said to Damage Equipment  A fire yesterday at Chevron Corp.’s El Segundo refinery,
California’s largest, damaged equipment associated with the
plant’s fluid catalytic cracker, a person with knowledge of the
refinery’s operations said.  Algeria Is Close to Completing Upgrade of Skikda Oil Refinery  Sonatrach,  Algeria ’s state-run energy producer, said the
upgrade of its Skikda refinery is almost complete and a fire
this month hadn’t caused any damage.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  TOP Oil Market News: Oil Rises to Four-Month High on Seaway Pipe  The following is a selection of the most important news
affecting the oil market.  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Fall 2.6 %  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline, jet fuel or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the Middle East to
 Japan  fell 2.6 percent to 8.86 U.S. cents yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  Oil-Tanker Returns Reach Nine-Week Low as Charter Demand Slows  Returns for the biggest oil tankers hauling Middle East
crude to Asia, the industry’s busiest trade route, reached a
nine-week low as demand to charter ships slowed amid a shrinking
supply of cargoes.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Hedge Funds Cut Bets to Six-Month Low Before Rally: Commodities  Hedge funds cut bullish commodity wagers to the lowest
since June before prices rallied to a two- month high on signs
of a rebound in Chinese economic growth.  Oil Industry Beats Buffett in Railroad Investments Surge: Energy  North American energy companies are starting to invest more
in railroad terminals than the railroads themselves.  WTI Oil Trades Near Four-Month High on Seaway Pipeline Expansion  Oil traded near a four-month high in New York, narrowing
its discount to Brent crude to the least since September, after
the expansion of a pipeline that may reduce a glut in the U.S.
Midwest.  Vermont  Fights Ruling It Can’t Close Entergy Nuclear Plant (1)  Entergy Corp. and Vermont brought their dispute over
whether the state has the authority to shut its only nuclear
power plant before an appeals court.  Oil Rises to Four-Month High on Seaway as Heating Oil Jumps  Oil rose to the highest level in almost four months as
service began on the expanded Seaway pipeline and heating oil
jumped.  Private Equity Flees Clean Energy as Investment Falls: Energy  Private equity companies and venture capitalists including
Draper Fisher Jurvetson and Braemar Energy Ventures reduced
renewable-energy investment to the lowest since 2006 as once-
promising companies failed or were sold at a loss.  Exxon Knew in 1984 of MTBE Contamination Threat, State Says (1)  ExxonMobil Corp. knew that adding a chemical to gasoline
that makes it burn more cleanly would triple incidents of
groundwater contamination, a lawyer for New Hampshire said at
the opening of an $816 million trial.  South Korea’s December LNG Imports Shrink 9.5% as Prices Rise  Imports of liquefied natural gas into South Korea, the
world’s second-largest buyer of the fuel, dropped 9.5 percent in
December as prices rose.  Wind Finds Favor as Funds Blow Cold on Government: Nordic Credit  Denmark’s state-backed renewable energy projects are
emerging as a preferred vehicle for the country’s pension funds
to bolster their returns as institutional investors snub low-
yielding government debt.  Consol Plans Asset Sales to Help Boost Natural Gas Output (2)  Consol Energy Inc., the third- largest U.S. coal miner by
sales, plans to sell assets for $127 million to $312 million in
2013 as it ramps up production of natural gas.  OTHER MARKETS  Yen Jumps as Stocks Pare Gains on Amari Comments; Wheat Rises  The yen rebounded from near the lowest since June 2010 and
regional stocks pared gains after comments by Japan’s economy
minister stoked speculation the nation won’t try to further
weaken the currency. Wheat advanced.  Yen Climbs as Japan’s Amari Warns of Excessive Currency Weakness  The yen rose against all of its 16 major peers after
comments by Japan’s economy minister stoked speculation the
nation won’t try to spur further weakness in its currency.  Best Forecasters See Asia Rebounding to Lead Gains: Currencies  For the first time in three years, Asia will lead a rally
in emerging-market currencies as rising global trade lifts the
region’s exports, according to the most- accurate foreign-
exchange forecasters.  Asian Stocks Climb as Japanese Exporters Gain; Olympus Jumps  Most Asian stocks rose, with the regional benchmark index
heading for the highest close since August 2011. Japanese shares
gained after Bank of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said the
central bank will pursue powerful monetary easing.  Goldman Joins Japan Stock Bulls as Strategists See Abe Advance  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Bank of America Corp. and Nomura
Holdings Inc. are predicting Japanese stocks will extend their
longest streak of gains in 23 years as extra economic stimulus
boost earnings.  Red Kite Says Tin to Outperform Copper as Super Cycle Continues  Tin is the top pick among base metals for 2013, while
platinum and palladium will outperform gold and silver in the
next few years, said Michael Jansen, head of research at RK
Capital Management LLP.  Gold Forecasters Splitting on Peak for Bull Market: Commodities  Danske Bank A/S and Credit Suisse Group AG, the most-
accurate gold forecasters, say prices will probably peak this
year while their nearest rival, UniCredit SpA, sees no end in
sight to the 12-year bull market.  China Says Beijing Pollution Lifting as Party Reacts to Critics  China reported that pollution eased in Beijing after
reaching record high levels in the past three days, as state
media said the capital was becoming more famous for its smog
than its culture or food.  Obama Warns Against Using Debt Limit to Force Spending Cuts: Q&A  With as little as a month until the U.S. runs out of money
to pay its bills, President  Barack Obama  warned Republicans in
Congress not to use the need for a debt- limit increase to force
through new spending cuts.  SPORTS  Synovus Board Barred From Loan Approvals in Sea Island Deal  Synovus Financial Corp. settled a shareholder lawsuit over
more than $200 million in bad loans to Georgia luxury resort Sea
Island Co. that the investors say were approved with a “golf
course handshake” between executives of the two companies.  Rory McIlroy Joins Tiger Woods as Sponsor of Nike Golf Equipment  Top-ranked Rory McIlroy signed an agreement to use Nike Inc.
golf equipment after ending his five- year relationship with
Titleist, the company announced.  Manchester City Want to Sign Derby’s Hughes for $11Mln: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  ENERGY PRICES  Last     Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----    ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)       94.20   +0.06  +0.1  Nymex     Feb.
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    111.88   +1.24  +1.1    Ice     Feb.
Gasoil ($/Ton)         954.50  +14.75  +1.6    Ice     Feb.
Gasoline (c/Gal)       275.41   +1.46  +0.5  Nymex     Feb.
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.38   +0.01  +0.3  Nymex     Feb.
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    111.97   +1.38  +1.3    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            306.69   +0.44  +0.1  Nymex     Feb.  Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            79.51  -0.1
Gold ($/Oz)          1,669.40  +0.5
MSCI World Index     1,380.21  -0.1  Prices as of 11 p.m. GMT  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  