-- Morgan Stanley Said to Defer Bonuses to Top Bankers, Traders
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-01-15T18:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/morgan-stanley-said-to-defer-all-bonuses-to-top-bankers-traders.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , the investment bank
that’s cutting 1,600 jobs, is deferring 100 percent of bonuses
for some senior bankers and traders over three years, according
to a person briefed on the matter.  The deferrals apply to employees who have both total pay of
more than $350,000 and bonuses of at least $50,000, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the plans hadn’t
been announced. Mark Lake, a spokesman for New York-based Morgan
Stanley, declined to comment. Reuters reported on the plan
earlier today.  Morgan Stanley last year capped most cash bonuses at
$125,000 as it seeks to tie employees to the firm and satisfy
regulators’ demands for long-term incentives. Chief Executive
Officer James Gorman, 54, has said banks need to balance rewards
to employees with shareholder returns.  Morgan Stanley set aside $5.17 billion for compensation in
its investment-banking and trading division in the first nine
months of 2012, a 9 percent decline from a year earlier.  Return
on equity , excluding charges tied to changes in the value of the
company’s own  debt , was about 5 percent in the first three
quarters and below Gorman’s target of 15 percent.  Deutsche Bank  Banks are cutting pay and increasing deferrals as investors
demand higher returns.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  is weighing 2012 bonus
cuts of as much as 20 percent for investment bankers in  Europe ,
while those in New York will see smaller declines, four people
briefed on the matter said this week. The Frankfurt-based lender
also is increasing the vesting period for deferred bonuses for
about 150 senior managers to five years from three, and will
make a single payout after the deferral period ends rather than
staggered payments each year.  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , the investment bank selling itself to
Leucadia National Corp., has broken from that trend, saying it
will pay employees year-end bonuses in immediately available
cash.  Deferred bonuses for affected employees at Morgan Stanley
will be paid 50 percent in cash and 50 percent in stock, said
the person briefed on the matter. Bankers will get a quarter of
the cash in May, with another quarter coming in each of the
following three Decembers, the person said. The  stock  also will
be paid over three years with the first installment in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  