-- Origin Drops Possible Sale of Stockyard Hill Wind Project
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-01-15T06:43:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/origin-decides-to-hold-onto-stockyard-hill-wind-farm-in-victoria.html
Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG) ,  Australia ’s
biggest electricity and gas retailer, has dropped the possible
sale of its Stockyard Hill wind farm in the state of Victoria
and will continue developing the project.  “Stockyard Hill is one of Australia’s premier wind farm
sites and Origin has elected to retain the right to
commercialize it at the best time,” the Sydney-based company
said today in an e-mailed response to questions.  Origin last year started a process to identify development
options for Stockyard Hill, which has approval for 157 wind
turbines at a site west of  Melbourne . The company, also
 ConocoPhillips (COP) ’s partner in a A$23 billion ($24 billion)
liquefied natural gas project in Queensland state, has said it
sought proposals from companies interested in supplying  wind
turbines , building Stockyard Hill or buying the development.  Australia is forecast to add 643 megawatts of wind capacity
this year, with the number rising to 1,534 megawatts in 2020,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.
Almost $7.7 billion is expected to be invested in Australian
wind projects in the next three years, BNEF forecasts.  Origin shares rose 0.8 percent to A$11.95 at the close in
Sydney. They’ve gained 2.8 percent since Jan. 1 compared with a
1.5 percent advance for the S&P/ASX 200 index.  Origin is among companies in Australia developing wind
farms as the nation moves toward a goal of getting at least 20
percent of its power from renewable energy by the end of the
decade. Australia’s Climate Change Authority, which advises the
government, recommended last month sticking with the country’s
2020 target to give investors confidence in the industry.  A “strong level of interest” had been shown from
companies interested in Stockyard Hill, Origin said today. The
company plans to continue development work on the wind-power
project through 2013, which will help it figure out the timing
of any final  investment decision , it said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  