-- Bovespa Index Retreats From Week High as OGX Follows Oil Lower
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-01-15T21:32:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/most-brazilian-stocks-fall-as-vale-sinks-on-lower-metal-prices.html
The Bovespa index declined from a
one-week high as oil company OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA
followed crude lower and iron-ore producer  Vale  SA dropped amid
concern global growth is faltering.  Steelmaker Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA tumbled as the MSCI
Brazil/Materials index fell to the lowest this month amid
concern slower growth in Brazil’s trading partners will curb
demand for commodities exports. BRF Brasil Foods SA, the world’s
biggest poultry exporter, fell the most in six months after
Valor Economico reported a conflict among shareholders over a
board appointment.  The Bovespa declined 0.6 percent to 61,727.61 at the close
of trading in Sao Paulo. The real fell 0.2 percent to 2.0358 per
U.S. dollar. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw
materials slid 0.5 percent as economic growth in  Germany  slowed
to 0.7 percent last year, while economists had forecast
expansion of 0.8 percent. Manufacturing in the  New York  region
contracted in January for the sixth straight month.  “When you look at fundamentals, when you look at how the
economies are doing around the world, what you see is very slow
growth,” Rogerio Freitas, a partner at Rio de Janeiro-based
hedge fund Teorica Investimentos, said in a phone interview.
“It’s not a scenario that supports equities.”  OGX fell 3 percent to 5.20 reais as oil slipped from the
highest level in almost four months. Vale slid 0.3 percent to
39.65 reais. CSN, as Siderurgica Nacional is also known, dropped
1.8 percent to 12.47 reais.  Homebuilders Gain  Homebuilders  Gafisa SA (GFSA3)  and  Brookfield Incorporacoes SA (BISA3) 
gained the most on the  Bovespa (IBOV)  after both reported preliminary
figures that signaled sales increased in the fourth quarter.
Smaller competitor  Even Construtora e Incorporadora SA  also
climbed.  Gafisa jumped 6.1 percent to 5.20 reais after saying
contracted sales almost tripled from a year earlier to 905.2
million reais in the three months ending in December. Brookfield
rose 5.5 percent to 3.86 reais after saying that new projects
announced during the fourth quarter totaled 1.76 billion reais,
three times the 577 million reais in the previous quarter.  Even added 0.6 percent to 9.45 reais after reporting
fourth-quarter sales rose 23 percent from the previous quarter
to 505 million reais.  “Operational numbers released yesterday should be welcomed
by the market,” Credit Suisse Group AG analysts including
Guilherme Rocha, wrote in a note to clients commenting on the
results from all three homebuilders.  Brasil Foods Tumbles  Brasil Foods  sank 3 percent to 43.84 reais. The pension
fund for Petroleo Brasilero’s workers doesn’t support the
appointment of Brazilian billionaire Abilio Diniz to the board,
while stockholders Tarpon Investimentos SA and Previ, the
retirement fund for Banco do Brasil SA’s employees, back the
move, Sao Paulo-based newspaper Valor Economico reported today
without saying where it got the information.  Brasil Foods said in an e-mailed statement that it woudn’t
comment on Valor’s report.  The Bovespa entered a bull market on Jan. 3 after rising 21
percent from last year’s low on June 5 as stimulus from central
banks around the world eased concern that economic growth might
miss expectations while borrowing costs at a record low in
 Brazil  boosted equity demand. The index has since pared its gain
to 18 percent.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge trades at 11.2 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.9 for MSCI’s measure of 21 developing nations’
equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume was 6.8 billion reais in stocks in Sao Paulo
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with a daily average of 7.25 billion reais in 2012, according to
data compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  