-- Total to Hold Abu Dhabi Talks on Oil Rights, Bab Sour-Gas Field
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2013-01-15T10:27:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/total-to-hold-abu-dhabi-talks-on-oil-rights-bab-sour-gas-field.html
Total SA (FP)  will hold talks in  Abu
Dhabi  about renewing oil production rights in the United Arab
Emirates and developing natural gas fields, the company’s chief
executive officer said.  The discussions will focus on concession rights in Abu
Dhabi that expire next year and on the Bab sour-gas field,
Christophe de Margerie said today in an interview in the
U.A.E.’s capital and largest emirate. Total doesn’t expect to
sign any agreements during his visit today to the Persian Gulf
crude producer, he said.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  BP Plc (BP/) , and
Partex Oil & Gas are shareholders with Paris-based Total in
output from Abu Dhabi’s main onshore oil fields. Abu Dhabi,
which holds most the U.A.E.’s oil, is due to shortlist companies
to share in fields producing 1.4 million barrels a day. The
U.A.E. is the sixth-biggest crude producer in OPEC, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s an on-going process,” he said. “We’re talking
about the new concession, talking about our work with ABK and
talking about some additional gas.” ABK is an offshore field
where the company also has rights.  Total is looking into a project to produce sour, or high-
sulfur, gas at the onshore Bab field in Abu Dhabi, de Margerie
said. Gas from Bab will initially supply local demand, and Total
may seek other supplies of the fuel to transport for export from
the U.A.E. port of Fujairah on the  Gulf of Oman , he said.  The company would also be interested in supplying an import
terminal for liquefied natural gas that Abu Dhabi plans to build
at Fujairah, which lies outside the  Strait of Hormuz , a shipping
chokepoint between Iran and Oman at the mouth of the Gulf.  Saudi Refinery  In neighboring Saudi Arabia, Total has agreed in principle
with state-owned Saudi Arabian Oil Co., known as  Saudi Aramco ,
to expand the Satorp refinery in Jubail, de Margerie said. The
expanded refinery, including a new petrochemical facility, will
be called Satorp II, he said. The upgraded complex will supply
the Saudi domestic market and may also export, the CEO said,
without estimating the expanded plant’s production. Satorp
currently processes 400,000 barrels a day of crude.  Total plans to start exploring again for oil and gas in
Libya, where crude production has “almost” recovered to levels
maintained before the revolt in 2011 against the North African
state’s former leader  Muammar Qaddafi , de Margerie said.
“Definitely we need to restart exploration in Libya,” he said.  The company is also happy to continue working both in
southern  Iraq  and in that nation’s northern self-ruled Kurdish
region, he said.  “I’m perfectly well in the KRG and in Iraq,” he said,
referring to the Kurdistan Regional Government by its initials.
“It’s one country.”  Iraq’s central government requested that Total cancel
contracts the company signed with the Kurdistan Regional
Government and which the Oil Ministry in  Baghdad  considers to be
illegal. The central government and KRG are entangled in a
dispute over energy contracts, oil revenue and territory.  The Iraqi government and KRG need to agree on a common
energy law, de Margerie said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Abu Dhabi at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Wael Mahdi in Abu Dhabi at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  