-- Thought It Was Safe to Forget Greece? Think Again
-- B y   M e g a n   G r e e n e
-- 2013-01-15T23:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/thought-it-was-safe-to-forget-greece-think-again.html
Just before Christmas, I met with
former Greek Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou , and he
talked about how excited he was to spend the holidays abroad,
where -- unlike in Greece -- he could roam freely without a
security detail. His holiday didn’t go quite as expected.  On Dec. 28, Papaconstantinou was accused of removing names
from a list of Greeks with Swiss bank accounts -- the so-called
Lagarde list -- and he was expelled from the socialist Pasok
party. This week, Greek legislators will debate whether to start
a parliamentary investigation against him.  The rest of the world has largely ignored this latest twist
of the plot in Greece. Not only does it demonstrate the kind of
institutional failure that has landed the country in so much
trouble, but it could also mark the beginning of the end for the
current coalition government -- and possibly for Greece’s euro-
area membership, as well.  The story begins in late 2010, when then French Finance
Minister  Christine Lagarde  distributed a list to her
counterparts around  Europe  with the names of thousands of
depositors at the Geneva branch of HSBC Holdings Plc. Most
countries investigated the accounts and collected many millions
of euros and other currencies in unpaid taxes.  Not so in Greece, a country that international creditors
have repeatedly lambasted for its tolerance of rampant  tax
evasion . While the Lagarde list included about 2,000 Greek
depositors, successive Greek governments did not use it to
collect a single cent from tax evaders.  No Trust  So what did the government do with the list? That depends
on whom you ask. Most Greeks I speak to about this tell me
without hesitation that the Lagarde list was used for extortion.
There is no proof of this, but it demonstrates clearly the level
of trust that Greeks have in their politicians.  Papaconstantinou was the first Greek official to receive
the list from Lagarde. In a TV interview last week, he said he
immediately asked the Financial Crimes Squad in  Athens  to check
a sample of names. Then he says he transferred the data onto a
memory stick and gave the full list to the squad.  After Papaconstantinou left office as finance minister in
June 2011, the list disappeared until September 2012, when the
current finance minister, Yannis Stournaras, apparently learned
of its existence from the press and said he had never received
it.  Evangelos Venizelos , the finance minister serving between
Papaconstantinou and Stournaras, responded to Stournaras’s
statement by saying he didn’t know the whereabouts of the
Lagarde list. A few days later, he nevertheless presented it to
the authorities, declaring that he had never read it but instead
only briefly glanced at it, noticing that there were three
Jewish names on it (whatever that means).  The mishandling of the Lagarde list is the result of
extremely weak -- and, in some cases, failed -- institutions in
Greece. The Financial Crimes Squad should have conducted a full
investigation of the names on the list, with the finance
minister then authorizing a course of action to recoup revenue
from identified tax evaders.  That this scandal should have happened at all is bad
enough, yet the government’s proposed remedy is worse. On Dec.
28, a total of 71 members of the ruling coalition signed a
petition demanding that Papaconstantinou -- alone -- should be
investigated, for allegedly removing the names of three of his
relatives from the list.  If  Greece ’s parliamentarians vote in favor of this plan
this week, it would be yet another reflection of institutional
failure in Greece.  No Motive  The accusation against Papaconstantinou is hardly clear-
cut. Papaconstantinou’s relatives have presented evidence to the
Financial Crimes Squad that their deposits in  Switzerland  were
legal and properly declared. If this evidence is accepted, then
the former finance minister had no obvious motive for removing
their names, raising the question of whether he, or someone
else, did so and why.  More important, Papaconstantinou is only one of many people
involved. Venizelos’s recollection of the list evolved as the
scandal unfolded. He not only failed to start an investigation
into the names on the list, but also took the list with him when
he left office. Should Venizelos not be under investigation, as
well? Additionally, any complete inquiry should include senior
members of the crimes squad, who received the list from
Papaconstantinou and also sat on their hands.  The proposed parliamentary investigation against
Papaconstantinou has already ruffled some Greek feathers. Last
week, two members of the Democratic Left were expelled from
their party for demanding a more complete inquiry. The
Independent Greeks and neo-fascist Golden Dawn parties have
demanded that former prime ministers also be included in the
investigation.  The real threat to the government, however, comes from the
main opposition party, Syriza. No matter who is investigated,
Syriza stands to gain support from the Lagarde-list saga given
the party’s status as an outsider to the cozy political
establishment that has run Greece into the ground.  So far, the coalition has managed to hold on to power
because no party has had the incentive to bring it down. But
this may be changing. Syriza has led the charge in demanding
that the Lagarde-list inquiry include a number of politicians
and officials. The party probably smells Pasok’s weakness and is
going in for the kill.  If Syriza can use the Lagarde-list scandal to come close to
attracting enough support to form a majority government, we can
expect it to incite even more anti-austerity sentiment in the
electorate than we have seen so far, with the goal of forcing
early elections.  Impossible Reforms  The public outcry would make further austerity measures and
structural reforms almost impossible to implement, and members
of parliament would probably continue to resign under pressure
from international creditors to meet target conditions for the
loans that keep Greece afloat. The coalition’s numbers in the
300-seat parliament have already dwindled to 164 from 179 since
the June election.  Most analysts equate a Syriza government in Greece with the
country’s exit from the euro area, given party leader Alexis Tsipras’s saber rattling before the June election. The party’s
language has softened recently, with Tsipras swapping demands
for a moratorium on debt payments with calls for a more
constructive debt conference to renegotiate the terms. This
week, Tsipras began a public-relations blitz in  Germany  and the
U.S. to manage his party’s image abroad.  So once in government, Syriza might just back down and fall
into line with the demands of the European Union, the  European
Central Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund . Then again, it
might not. Following the decision of European finance ministers
in late 2012 to grant Greece some public-debt relief, most
investors concluded that the euro area’s problem child would
remain out of sight, at least until after the German elections
in September 2013. The Lagarde-list saga could bring Greece back
into focus earlier than anyone was expecting.  ( Megan Greene  is a Bloomberg View  columnist  and chief
economist at Maverick Intelligence. Until 2012, she was director
of European economic research at Roubini Global Economics LLC.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Megan Greene at  megan@maverickintelligence.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 