-- Louvre May Get Foreigner as New Chief as Hollande Budget Shrinks
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2013-01-15T00:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/louvre-may-get-foreigner-as-new-chief-as-hollande-budget-shrinks.html
The search for a new chief of  the
Louvre , the world’s most-visited museum, may include non-French
candidates for the first time in the institution’s more than
200-year history.  French President Francois Hollande, faced with a shrinking
budget, is casting his net wide and including foreigners among
people he will consider to run the museum that’s home to the
Mona Lisa, Venus de Milo and the  Winged Victory of Samothrace , a
French government official said.  With public spending being reduced this year by 10 billion
euros ($13.4 billion), the French government is putting
expertise in international fundraising high on the list of must-
have skills for the person taking charge of the Louvre. Hollande,
who had promised to spare cultural projects from cuts,  trimmed
the culture ministry’s budget  by 2.3 percent this year.  “We are going through an economic crisis of unprecedented
gravity,” Culture Minister Aurelie Filippetti told  Le Monde
newspaper  in an interview in September. “Everyone needs to do
their part.” She said museum directors and other heads of
France’s monuments will need to make do with diminishing support
from the state.  The Louvre’s new director will have to find funds to expand
the museum’s reception area under the glass pyramid designed by
architect  I.M. Pei  in the 1980s. The area had been built with a
forecast of 4 to 5 million visitors a year, about half the
record 10 million visitors the museum drew last year.  Skills Sought  The position at the central Paris museum that opened its
doors in 1793 needs to be filled after its chief, Henri Loyrette,
60, said on Dec. 17 that he won’t seek a fifth term following 12
years in the post. Hollande expects to have the new head in
place when Loyrette’s mandate ends in April.  In addition to fundraising, the new director will need to
have the skills of a curator, have managerial abilities, be
familiar with the French administration system, be fluent in
French and have worked in a world-class museum or a big cultural
center, the official said, declining to be identified in line
with internal policy.  The list of candidates may be short, making it critical for
Hollande to look outside  France . German historian  Werner Spies 
is the only foreigner to have headed a French national museum.
He was the director of Paris’s Modern Art Museum from 1997 to
2000.  Funding for culture has taken a hit as Hollande struggles
to meet the target he set for a budget deficit this year of 3
percent of gross domestic product, down from 4.5 percent in 2012.  Crimped Funding  His task has been rendered more difficult by an economy
that may grow no more than 0.4 percent, according to the
International Monetary Fund, and a jobless rate that has reached
a 14-year high.  The Louvre and other cultural and education institutions
will have to increasingly tap private resources to fund
expansion and projects.  Funds are so scarce that Filippetti said late last year the
government is postponing a 250-million-euro project to protect
art pieces from flooding.  She suspended the plan -- initiated under former President
Nicolas Sarkozy -- to build backups for the basement storerooms
of Paris’s museums, including the Louvre, the Musee d’Orsay, the
 Pompidou  Center and the Decorative Arts Museum, to protect them
from being flooded by the Seine River.  The storage, research, restoration and conservation center
would have been built in the suburbs of the French capital.  Private Funds  In 2008, France legalized the creation of endowments at its
public institutions, including the Louvre. Most of the 8.6
million euros the Louvre spent in 2011 to buy new art was from
private donors. Just 20 percent coming from tickets sales.  The Louvre has an endowment fund of about 125 million euros,
which shrank by 0.8 percent in 2011, the most recent figures
available, the museum’s press office said.  Every year, the Louvre raises as much as it gets from the
state, or  about 210 million euros in 2011 . The government pays
for running costs: salaries, safety and maintenance. The rest --
expansions, refurbishments, acquisitions -- is funded by the
museum. The state cut funding to the Louvre by 5 percent in 2009
and another 5 percent in 2011. State funds dropped to less than
50 percent from 70 percent of the total budget in 2001.  In 2013, the state plans to cut funding for the Louvre by
4.3 percent, which will force its next head to find more money
from private donors and cap spending.  Big Shoes  Since Loyrette took over in 2001, the Louvre has been
scouting for outside money. Like his U.S. counterparts, Loyrette
spent half his time fund raising, and has traveled to the Gulf
states more than a dozen times. His sponsorship staff expanded
and some of the 16 million euros raised in 2011 was funneled
into the endowment.  Under Loyrette, the Louvre launched a project to open a
branch in Abu Dhabi, part of the  United Arab Emirates , in a plan
that will bring 1 billion euros to the museum over 30 years.  Hollande has three months to find Loyrette’s replacement.
There is no list of candidates so far, the government official
said, adding that no obvious contender has emerged from among
the heads of big French museums. The current head of the
 Versailles Palace ,  Jean-Jacques Aillagon , is past the 65-years
age limit.  Filippetti is  setting the bar high  for Loyrette’s successor.  “In his four successive mandates Henri Loyrette worked to
make the Louvre one of the world’s greatest museums, a popular
institution, modern and open to the world,” she said. “His
reforms gave the Louvre its international influence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  