-- How to Resolve Disputes, Maybe Even Gridlock
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-01-15T00:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/how-to-resolve-disputes-maybe-even-gridlock.html
When people find themselves in a
disagreement that seems impossible to resolve, there are two
time-honored solutions.  The first, rooted in the work of the famous 18th-century
social theorist Edmund Burke, is minimalism. The second, rooted
in the work of the obscure 17th-century social theorist George
Savile, is trimming. Both minimalism and trimming played a big
role in the fiscal-cliff deal. They are likely to prove relevant
to negotiations over budget cuts,  gun control  and immigration
reform, and to other coming battles as well.  Minimalists want to make agreement possible where it is
necessary, while making agreement unnecessary where it isn’t
possible. They are content to leave important matters undecided.
Minimalists know that people can agree on small steps when they
divide over large ones.  Insisting that silence can be golden, minimalists focus
narrowly on the questions they absolutely have to answer. In
 constitutional law , for example, minimalist judges will be
inclined to rule on a particular affirmative action program
without resolving disputes about other affirmative action
programs.  Consider Chief Justice  John Roberts ’s aphoristic summary of
the minimalist position in constitutional law: “If it is not
necessary to decide more to dispose of a case, in my view it is
necessary not to decide more.” Minimalists want to avoid the
questions that most deeply divide people.  Minimalism’s Role  Minimalism plays an indispensable role in politics. A
climactic (and historically accurate) scene in the movie
“ Lincoln ” shows Thaddeus Stevens, a longtime defender of racial
equality, assuring wavering Democrats by speaking in relatively
minimalist terms about the 13th Amendment, declaring that it
wouldn’t guarantee full equality but only equality before the
law. When negotiations over some of the biggest fiscal issues
fell apart last month, President  Barack Obama  quickly moved in
the direction of a minimalist solution, bracketing the largest
questions and focusing narrowly on those issues on which
agreement was both necessary and possible.  Trimmers are very different from minimalists. They don’t
want to leave things undecided. Instead they try to steer
between the poles.  The idea of trimming comes from a small group of mostly
forgotten thinkers in the late 17th century who were dismayed by
the political polarization of their time. Savile, the most
influential trimmer, insisted that “true Vertue hath ever been
thought a Trimmer, and to have its dwelling in the middle,
between the two extreams.” To those who denounced the very word
“trimmer,”  Savile  asked, “Why, after we have played the foole
with throwing Whig and Tory at one another, as boys do
snowballs, doe we grow angry at a new name, which by its true
signification might do as much to put us into our witts, as the
others have been to put us out of them?”  Trimmers compromise, but they don’t favor compromise for
its own sake. They try to identify and to preserve what is most
essential, most valuable, and most deeply felt in competing
positions. Their goal is to vindicate, at once, what they see as
the most appealing aspects of seemingly antagonistic views.
Savile emphasized that the trimmer “is not eager to pick out the
sore places in History against this or any other party; on the
contrary, is very solicitous to find out any thing that may be
healing, and tend to an agreement.”  Chief Justice Roberts favors minimalism, but in the
constitutional dispute over the  Affordable Care Act  he was a
trimmer. He agreed with the conservatives that the
Constitution’s  Commerce Clause  didn’t support the act. He agreed
with the liberals that the law was constitutional under
Congress’s taxing power.  Trimmers’ Tactics  With respect to  gun control , trimmers would respect the
individual right to have guns, not only because the  Supreme
Court  has done so, but also because that right has become deeply
ingrained in American culture and central to the lives and
understanding of countless Americans. But trimmers would insist
that the individual right isn’t unlimited and that reasonable
restrictions can be devised that are perfectly consistent with
the Second Amendment.  The fiscal-cliff deal makes a series of compromises that
trimmers would be willing to respect. It accepts Obama’s
argument for tax increases on the wealthiest Americans, but the
threshold is higher than what he proposed, and the deal accepts
much of the Republican position on the estate tax.  To be sure, minimalists and trimmers can make big mistakes.
Insofar as it leaves important questions undecided, minimalism
promotes uncertainty, which may make it impossible for people to
plan. A minimalist approach to current fiscal debates may be a
serious blunder. Even an imperfect answer may be better than no
answer at all.  Nor is trimming a philosophy for all seasons. Trimmers try
to split the difference, so they may compromise with people who
are wrong, confused or worse. If one side is way off the mark,
it isn’t exactly admirable to compromise with it.  No sensible person celebrates minimalism or trimming as
such. But sometimes one or the other is a practical necessity,
and political life is unimaginable without them.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Felix Frankfurter professor of law
at  Harvard University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“Simpler: The Future of Government,” forthcoming in 2013. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 