-- Pakistan Government Jolted by Premier Arrest Order Ahead of Poll
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-01-16T04:44:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/pakistan-top-court-orders-arrest-of-prime-minister-geo-tv-says.html
Pakistan’s government was dealt a
double blow months ahead of a landmark election as the  Supreme
Court  ordered the arrest of the Prime Minister over alleged
corruption in power projects and a popular cleric rallied
supporters in the capital.  The twin jolt could hasten preparations for the poll, as
President Asif Ali Zardari’s democratically elected
administration seeks to create history by becoming the first to
complete its five-year term and transfer power through a ballot
in a country ruled for half its history by the military.  Yesterday’s court ruling followed hours after Islamic
scholar Tahir-ul-Qadri had gathered thousands of people in the
center of Islamabad, vowing to stay put until the government
quit and corrupt politicians were removed from the legislature.
In Karachi, the two events combined to push the benchmark share
index down by 3.2 percent, the most in 17 months. Stocks rose
0.4 percent at 9:33 a.m. today.  “Democracy will survive in  Pakistan , no matter how
confusing the situation gets from here,” said Mehdi Hasan, a
political analyst and dean of the School of Communications at
the Lahore-based Beaconhouse National University. “The army
isn’t in a position to take over given the security challenges
and the precarious economic situation. All the main political
parties are in favor of elections which are just round the
corner.”  Pakistan’s top judges ruled that the National
Accountability Bureau should arrange warrants for the arrest of
Premier Raja Pervez Ashraf and 15 others accused over the
handling of contracts for rented power units, according to the
court order. The bureau’s chairman has been ordered to report to
the court Jan. 17. Ashraf, who hasn’t been convicted of any
crime, didn’t respond to the court order.  ‘Impressive Show’  “The most this crisis will do is to force the government
to appoint a neutral caretaker set-up and announce the date of
election,” Hasan said by phone yesterday after the court
ruling. “Qadri despite his impressive show doesn’t have a
political constituency. He can’t force the government to resign
that’s still enjoying a majority in parliament.”  Ashraf took power last year after his predecessor was
removed by top judges for refusing to order the reopening of
graft charges against the president. That confrontation with the
Supreme Court, and speculation that it was fueled by a military
seeking to remove Zardari from power, distracted the elected
government amid a fight with Taliban insurgents and a record
power crisis. Rolling outages closed factories and sparked
street protests.  ‘Exorbitant Rentals’  Power producers were paid “exorbitant rentals,” while
their contracts were not transparent and violated the principles
of fair competition, the Supreme Court said March 30 last year.
Ashraf was power minister at the time the contracts were awarded
and was barred from leaving the country.  A short distance from the Supreme Court, Qadri, 61, who
heads an Islamic group with 90 branches worldwide, delivered a
message aimed at Pakistanis disillusioned by established
political parties that they blame for corruption and a faltering
economy.  “This is the start of the revolution,” he said after
leading a march into the city overnight. “It is the voice of
the nation. This protest is peaceful, constitutional, lawful.”
He earlier called for the dissolution of the federal and
regional assemblies.  After being told of the Ashraf ruling, Qadri informed his
followers, mostly middle-class Pakistanis from the most populous
province of Punjab. “Say long live the Supreme Court,” he told
the crowd, which included a large number of women, gathered 500
meters from the court building. “People have won. The remaining
job will be done tomorrow, Insha’Allah.”  Army Pressure  Analysts including Eurasia Group’s Shamila Chaudhary said
the court’s intervention yesterday amid Qadri’s demonstration
was an opportunistic attempt to add to the woes of the Zardari
administration. Chaudhary said in an e-mailed analysis that the
army would watch and tacitly support “constitutional efforts to
weaken” the government which the “military views with contempt
for its poor economic as well as security track record.”  Qadri’s comments mark a more hard-line approach after he
had earlier asked the government to consult the army and
judiciary on the appointment of a neutral electoral commission
and a caretaker administration before a ballot is held. He has
vowed to hold a sit-in in the capital, drawing parallels with
 Egypt ’s Arab Spring uprising in 2011.  Pew Poll  Fourteen percent of Pakistanis viewed Zardari favorably in
a Pew Research Center  survey  in June, down from 64 percent in
2008. About 87 percent are dissatisfied with the country’s
direction, viewing the economy, crime and corruption as the
biggest problems, it said. The poll had a margin of error of
plus or minus 4.2 percentage points.  Under existing law, Zardari’s government will leave office
by the end of March, and a caretaker administration approved by
a majority of parties represented in parliament will oversee
elections within three months.  Qadri’s sudden appearance after years out of Pakistan
politics, and his demands that the army have a role in
determining the country’s electoral future, have triggered media
commentary that the security establishment may be behind his
movement. Both Qadri and the army deny any link.  Police briefly clashed with Qadri’s supporters yesterday as
they tried to enter the highly-protected red zone where most of
the foreign embassies are located, Interior Minister Rehman Malik told the Geo TV network in live comments. Malik put the
size of the crowd backing Qadri at 20,000 people. Geo, citing
intelligence agencies, said it could be twice that figure, far
below the turnout claimed by the cleric.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  