-- Penn State Asks Court to Dismiss Former Coach’s Lawsuit
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-01-15T16:38:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/penn-state-seeks-to-dismiss-former-coach-s-suit-over-sandusky.html
Pennsylvania  State University asked
a court to dismiss the lawsuit brought by  Mike McQueary , the
former assistant football coach who claims he was fired for
cooperating in the sex-abuse investigation of Jerry Sandusky.  The lawsuit lacks specificity and the claims are legally
deficient, the university said in a court filing made public
today.  Penn State  last month lost a bid to delay the case until
criminal charges tied to the sex-abuse are resolved.  McQueary’s allegations against the school and some of its
former officials also “do not amount to the type of outrageous
conduct that is required to support a punitive-damages claim,”
which the ex-coach made, lawyers for Penn State said in papers
filed in state court in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania.  McQueary was a key witness for the prosecution in a June
trial against Sandusky. His testimony is at the heart of a
related case against three ex-Penn State officials: President
 Graham Spanier , Vice President  Gary Schultz  and Athletic
Director Tim Curley.  Sandusky, who spent 31 seasons as a defensive assistant
football coach under  Joe Paterno , was sentenced in October to at
least 30 years in prison for sexually abusing 10 boys over a
15-year period.  McQueary’s Testimony  McQueary testified he saw Sandusky abusing a boy in a
football locker room shower in February 2001 and reported the
incident to Paterno, Curley and Schultz.  McQueary, who was placed on administrative leave in
November 2011 and terminated in July, alleged in his lawsuit
that he was ostracized and defamed by school officials. He’s
seeking $4 million in lost future earnings plus unspecified
damages for legal fees and the distress, anguish and humiliation
caused by his role in the Sandusky case.  Penn State argued in its filing that McQueary cannot prove
he was defamed because it would require taking out of context
comments made by Spanier in the days soon after Sandusky was
charged.  Wrongful Discharge  McQueary’s whistle-blower claim alleging the school
mistreated him because of his cooperation with investigators
also lacks specificity as to whether it asserts a wrongful-
discharge claim, the university said. Penn State employed
McQueary as a “fixed term contract employee” with a term
expiring on June 30, 2012. Wrongful-discharge actions don’t
extend to employees protected by contract or statute, the
university said in its filing.  The case is McQueary v.  Pennsylvania State University ,
2012-1804, Pennsylvania Court of Common Pleas, Centre County
(Bellefonte).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 