-- Pentagon Needs Battle Plan for Troop-Suicide Threat
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-15T23:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/pentagon-needs-battle-plan-for-troop-suicide-threat.html
While the U.S.’s foreign wars wind
down, the body count at home keeps rising. The Pentagon said
this week there were  349 suicides  by active-duty members of the
armed services in 2012, as opposed to 311 combat deaths.  Before you jump to conclusions about the plight of battle-
traumatized veterans failing to readjust to life stateside,
consider this astounding fact: More than half of troops who
killed themselves had never deployed from the U.S., and 85
percent never saw combat. Although caring for those returning
from battle remains a priority, the military needs to better
monitor the mental health of all service members.  In part, the military is a victim of a broader social
phenomenon: The U.S. suicide rate soared to 12.4 per 100,000
Americans in 2010, from 10.4 in 2000. The military’s rate is
almost double the national average, which isn’t hugely
surprising in that the services are disproportionately male, and
men are far more likely than women to take their own lives.
(Indeed, a 2011 Rand Corp. study that controlled for
demographics found that the armed services had a significantly
lower adjusted suicide rate than the general population.)  Missed Connections  And there are good explanations for why the campaigns in
Iraq and  Afghanistan  have affected the mental health of far more
troops than have actually fought. Eleven years of war have
diminished continuity in units; officers and senior enlisted men
move more frequently and have less opportunity to connect with
green troops. The newcomers can easily feel isolated and
unworthy of serving alongside those who have survived on the
battlefield.  According  to the Army’s former top psychiatrist, Elspeth Ritchie, the bases with units deploying most rapidly had the
greatest suicide problems. And rates are significantly higher in
the Army and Marines, which have done the bulk of the fighting
abroad, than in the Air Force and Navy.  The Pentagon’s response to the crisis has ranged from
symbolic -- a one-day servicewide “stand down” in September
for suicide-awareness training -- to significant, setting a goal
of putting one enlisted behavior-health specialist in each
battalion and embarking on a $50 million study of suicide with
the National Institute of Mental Health, the largest ever
undertaken. Congress allocated $40 million to enhance suicide-
prevention programs at the Pentagon and Department of  Veterans
Affairs , and wisely included a measure in this year’s defense
authorization act allowing commanders to ask their troops about
any private firearms they own. (Almost 70 percent of military
suicides are committed with guns.)  What more can be done? There is little chance of making the
warrior culture, with its disdain for weakness, more receptive
to the presence of mental illness. More than two-thirds of those
who committed suicide never told anyone of their intent, and
most of those who did told family members, not fellow troops.  Yet the very things that make the military different from
civilian life -- daily structure, constant oversight by
superiors, close contact with a tight-knit group of colleagues,
constant access to health care -- should provide avenues for
detecting and treating mental-health problems.  For example, troops are screened for depression and other
problems before and after deployments. Unfortunately, this
relies entirely on self-reporting. The military should also
include observable variables known to reflect a person’s mental
state, including assessments of reaction times and responses to
images.  Needed Training  The place where mental-health issues are most likely to be
caught is within the squad or platoon, where troops and their
superiors have the most direct contact. So junior officers and
sergeants need more training in spotting problems and ensuring
that those who seek professional help are not stigmatized.  This should be coupled with increased attention to
nonpsychological warning signs.  Data  collected from 2010 showed
that half of all service members who committed suicide were
struggling with a failed personal relationship (intimate or
other), and 44 percent had looming legal or administrative
problems such as disciplinary punishments, or had recently been
denied promotion.  As for troops who have been traumatized by service, new
therapies are in the offing. Preliminary results from a
multiyear  University of Utah study  involving service members who
have attempted suicide or talked of it indicate the Pentagon
should move away from its emphasis on long-term hospitalization
and outpatient treatments. According to David M. Rudd, the
project director, very brief cognitive-therapy treatments -- as
little as 12 hours total -- reduced suicide attempts “by almost
70 percent relative to treatment as usual.”  It’s hard for any military force to admit it’s in a
quagmire, so give the Pentagon credit for the money and
attention it’s spending to investigate its new No. 1 threat. All
the data in the world won’t help, however, unless the men and
women in uniform get the day-to-day monitoring and assistance
they need.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 