-- Philippine Peso Rises Toward Four-Year High on Fed Easing Bets
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-01-15T09:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/philippine-peso-rises-toward-four-year-high-on-fed-easing-bets.html
The Philippine peso climbed toward a
four-year high as speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve will
maintain an easy monetary policy bolstered demand for riskier
assets.  Government bonds  gained.  The Fed’s asset purchases aimed at spurring economic growth
are having “some effect” and the authorities will continue to
assess the effectiveness, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at the
 University of Michigan  yesterday. Foreign investors bought $430
million more Philippine stocks than they sold this month through
yesterday, according to stock exchange data.  “Bernanke’s speech yesterday supported the need for U.S.
easing,” said Saktiandi Supaat, head of foreign-exchange
research at Malayan Banking Bhd. in Singapore. “There’s a shift
out of safe-haven assets.”  The peso advanced 0.3 percent to 40.563 per dollar as of
5:14 p.m. in Manila, the biggest gain since Jan. 2, according to
Tullett Prebon Plc. It touched 40.550 yesterday, the strongest
level since March 2008.  Speculative flows can create an asset-price bubble and the
authorities have participated in the foreign-exchange market to
manage the peso, central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said in a
speech in Manila today.  Overseas workers’ remittances rose 7.6 percent to $1.92
billion in November, according to a central bank statement
released today, beating the 5 percent increase forecast by
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, held at 4 percent.  The yield on the government’s 9.25 percent bonds due
January 2016 dropped 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point,
to 3.84 percent, according to prices from the Philippine Dealing
& Exchange Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  