-- Plosser Says Fed Easing May Hurt Consumer Finance Repair
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-01-15T17:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/plosser-says-fed-easing-may-hurt-consumer-finance-repair.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said Fed stimulus may hurt attempts by
consumers to repair their finances and fail to boost economic
growth.  “Efforts to drive real rates more negative or promises to
keep rates low for a long time may have frustrated households’
efforts to rebuild their balance sheets without stimulating
aggregate demand or consumption,” Plosser said in the text of
remarks given today in Rochester, New York.  Fed officials are discussing how long they will purchase
mortgage bonds and Treasuries as part of efforts to fuel the
expansion and reduce 7.8 percent unemployment. The Fed linked
its interest-rate outlook to economic thresholds last month,
saying borrowing costs will stay low “at least as long” as
joblessness exceeds 6.5 percent and if inflation is projected to
be no more than 2.5 percent one or two years in the future.  Low  interest rates  encourage consumers to save “even
more” and “large budget deficits” imply higher future taxes
which also leads to more saving, Plosser said. His remarks were
similar to those delivered in Somerset,  New Jersey , on Jan. 11.  “Until household balance sheets are restored to a level
that consumers and households find comfortable, consumption will
remain sluggish,” Plosser said. “This is likely to take some
time, and attempts to increase economic ‘stimulus’ may not help
speed up the process and may actually prolong it.”  Plosser, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year,
also said he sees medium-to-longer-term inflation risks “given
the current stance and anticipated path of monetary policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  