-- Plosser Says Fed Is Weighing Costs, Benefits of Easing
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-01-15T19:55:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/plosser-says-fed-is-weighing-costs-benefits-of-easing.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said the policy-setting  Federal Open
Market Committee  is considering the costs and benefits of
additional easing as it pursues its open-ended asset-purchase
program.  We “made it very clear we will review that on a regular
basis,” Plosser said in response to questions from reporters
after a speech today in Rochester, New York. Policy makers are
“weighing the costs versus the benefits of continuing to expand
our balance sheet” and will “make the decisions on a
continuous or ongoing basis.”  Fed officials are discussing how long they will continue
purchasing mortgage bonds and Treasuries as part of efforts to
fuel economic expansion and bring down a 7.8 percent
unemployment rate. The Fed last month linked its interest-rate
outlook to economic thresholds, saying borrowing costs will stay
low “at least as long” as joblessness exceeds 6.5 percent and
if inflation is projected to be no more than 2.5 percent one or
two years in the future.  “I’m not anxious to tighten right now but I do believe we
need to sit back and weigh” possibly stopping additional
stimulus, Plosser said. He said he’s “not terribly comfortable
with” the latest bond buying and “not sure” what impact it’s
having on achieving the Fed’s dual mandate of full employment.  U.S. Treasuries rose for a third straight day, pushing
yields to near their lowest of the year, amid concern about
raising the debt ceiling. Yields on 10-year notes declined two
basis points to 1.82 percent as of 2:25 p.m. in  New York . The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell less than 0.1 percent to
1,470.56 after slipping as much as 0.5 percent earlier.  Plosser, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year,
also said in his speech that he sees medium-to-longer-term
inflation risks “given the current stance and anticipated path
of monetary policy.” The speech was similar to remarks given in
Somerset,  New Jersey , on Jan. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  