-- PPR Buys Stake in Christopher Kane, Seeks More Luxury Brands
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-01-15T12:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/ppr-acquires-stake-in-christopher-kane-brand-amid-luxury-push.html
PPR SA (PP) , owner of the Gucci brand,
bought a 51 percent stake in British fashion designer
Christopher Kane, building on a collection of luxury labels that
it is seeking to expand further.  PPR will help Christopher Kane, which is only distributed
by third-party retailers, accelerate its expansion, the Paris-
based company said today in a statement. PPR, which bought a
majority stake in Chinese jeweler Qeelin last month, didn’t
disclose any financial terms for today’s transaction.  Christopher Kane is worth about 20 million euros ($27
million), CA Cheuvreux analyst Thomas Mesmin estimated. The
purchase fits the company’s strategy of making small to mid-
sized luxury acquisitions, Mesmin said. The deal is reminiscent
of PPR’s acquisition of British labels Alexander McQueen and
 Stella McCartney  which it has since developed into global
brands, he said.  PPR is looking at other targets, Alexis Babeau, managing
director of the company’s luxury division said today on a call
with reporters. The maker of Bottega Veneta bags and Puma
sneakers is reorganizing to focus on luxury and sports-lifestyle
brands as it aims for sales of 24 billion euros by 2020.  “We cannot rule out further acquisitions” in luxury, he
said. “We are looking for brands which are not going to overlap
with our existing portfolio.”  Versace Line  Scottish-born Kane, who founded his brand in 2006, said on
the call he held talks with other investors and settled on PPR
because the company’s model “fitted us perfectly.” Kane, 30,
worked for Gianni Versace SpA’s Versus line until last year.  About half of Kane’s sales come from  Europe  with the U.K.
its biggest market and the company focuses on ready to wear,
Babeau said. It’s based in  London  and has 26 employees.  PPR will add distribution in  Asia  and open Christopher Kane
stores probably from 2014 in London, Babeau said. The French
company will also expand the brand’s product range, including
accessories, which currently account for about 4 percent of
sales, he said.  “Thanks to all those growth engines, we can really take
the Christopher Kane brand to the next level in the coming
years,” Babeau said.  The shares rose 1.6 percent to 151.85 euros at 1:50 p.m. in
Paris as luxury stocks advanced across Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  