-- Mr Price Down on Weak Sector Sales Updates: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-01-15T15:52:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/mr-price-down-on-weak-sector-sales-updates-johannesburg-mover.html
Mr Price Group Ltd. (MPC) , the South
African clothing and furniture chain, fell the most in more than
three months as weak sales data from competing retailers
prompted a sell-off across the industry.  Shares in Mr Price  declined  5.3 percent to 126.25 rand in
Johannesburg, the biggest drop since Oct. 8. About 2.7 million
shares changed hands, or 2.3 times the three-month daily
average.  The stock sale is a result of disappointing trading updates
from other retailers, an indication that South African consumers
are under pressure, according to Diane Laas, an equity analyst
at Investec Asset Management.  “Shoprite put out a very disappointing trading statement
yesterday followed by one from AVI Ltd. today,” she said by
phone from Cape Town.  Shoprite Holdings Ltd. (SHP) , South Africa’s largest food
retailer by market value, said yesterday it’s December sales
grew 11 percent compared with 16 percent a year earlier.  AVI
Ltd. (AVI) , a company owning food and clothing brands, said today its
sales for the half-year through December will probably be a
lower-than-expected 11 percent higher compared with 8.6 percent
in 2011.  The AVI and Shoprite statements “are the first signs of
poor volumes and consumer strain” in the numbers of the listed
retail companies, Laas said. South African household spending is
expected to slow to 2.6 percent this year, the lowest since
2009,  Standard Bank  said today.  Mr Price fell for a sixth consecutive day, its longest
streak since August 2009, and was the worst one-day performer in
the  11-member (JGENR)  FTSE/JSE Africa General Retailers Index.  The
Foschini Group (TFG) , South Africa’s third-biggest clothes retailer,
declined as much as 10 percent, the most since October 2008,
before paring its loss to close 5.2 percent lower at 124.40
rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  