-- Traders’ Math Made Worthless by Stealth Rate Cut: Brazil Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-01-15T11:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/traders-math-made-worthless-by-stealth-rate-cut-brazil-credit.html
The Brazilian central bank’s refusal
to enforce its  benchmark rate target  is eroding traders’ ability
to bet on monetary policy decisions and prompting economists to
speculate that the inaction constitutes a stealth rate cut.  The rate that banks charge each other for overnight loans,
known as DI, was 6.93 percent on Jan. 14, marking the 23rd
straight day it has been more than a quarter-percentage point
below the central bank’s 7.25 percent target. The 0.32
differential is more than double the average over the past
decade and compares with gaps of less than 0.1 percentage point
in the U.S. and neighbors Colombia and  Chile .  The growing rate gap in  Brazil , which was sparked by an
increase in cash levels that central bank President Alexandre Tombini has left unchecked, is rendering useless traders’ models
designed to calculate the probability of policy moves in coming
days and months, according to Votorantim Ctvm Ltda. By allowing
the overnight rate to drop, Tombini is adding stimulus to a
sputtering economy without having to announce the 11th reduction
in the target since 2011.  “This kind of distortion makes it almost impossible to
foresee clearly” how traders are betting on future decisions,
 Roberto Padovani , Votorantim’s chief economist, said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “If the central bank is
trying to stimulate this kind of distortion to reduce capital
costs in the economy as a whole, then this could be more
persistent than I’d imagined.”  Average Gap  The differential swelled to the widest in four years
excluding one-day spikes on Dec. 19, when the overnight rate
sank to 6.84 percent. The gap has averaged 0.14 point in the
past decade.  The central bank declined to comment, saying in an e-mailed
response that it does not make statements on market moves.  Central bankers are scheduled to begin a two-day policy
meeting today. All 51 economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict
the bank will hold the rate at a record low 7.25 percent for a
second straight meeting. The bank lowered the rate target, known
as Selic, 5.25 percentage points over a 14-month period
beginning in August 2011 to spark an economic recovery.  With the economy posting its weakest two-year expansion in
over a decade and inflation quickening, Tombini is left to
navigate between conflicting policy choices.  Speculation is increasing that his inaction in the
overnight market is a designed response to that dilemma,
allowing borrowing costs to fall without adding to concern that
he’s not doing enough to quell inflation, said  Diego Donadio ,
Latin America strategist at Banco BNP Paribas Brasil SA.  ‘Too Weak’  Policy makers may “consider the activity too weak and it’s
a good idea to have a market operate with a lower rate even if
the bank doesn’t need to cut rates,” Donadio said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “Then the bank gains
credibility but knows the market is operating at a lower rate.”  It’s the 6.93 percent overnight rate, not the central
bank’s 7.25 percent target, that sets the benchmark used to
determine borrowing costs on companies’ floating-rate
securities, or 89 percent of all local corporate bonds,
according to Brazil’s capital markets association.  Annual inflation has exceeded the 4.5 percent midpoint of
the central bank’s target range for 28 consecutive months.
Consumer prices surged 5.84 percent in the 12 months through
December, the fastest pace since February, the national
statistics agency reported Jan. 10. The government predicts
inflation will slow to 4.8 percent this year while economic
growth picks up to as much as 4 percent. Latin America’s biggest
economy probably grew 1 percent in 2012, following a 2.7 percent
expansion in 2011, according to the central bank.  Market Aberration  Betting on policy decisions through the DI futures
contracts has become increasingly difficult because traders
don’t know whether the soaring gap between the overnight rate
and the target is an aberration that will fade or the new norm,
according to Donadio.  “You have another risk, which is the risk of this
overnight rate suddenly normalizing,” Donadio said. “The
overall level of swap rates can move 30 basis points higher just
because the overnight rate normalizes.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose three
basis points to 143 basis points at 6:03 a.m. in New York,
according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Default Swaps  The cost to protect Brazilian bonds against default for
five years was little changed at 113 basis points. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a borrower fails
to adhere to its debt agreements.  The real dropped 0.1 percent to 2.0332 per dollar. Yields
on interest-rate futures contracts due in January 2015 increased
three basis points to 7.72 percent.  The overnight rate gap has become so large that betting on
whether it will converge back toward its historical level is
beginning to replace the speculation on Selic rate policy
decisions, according to Roberto Simoes, head of proprietary
trading at BES Investimento, and Tony Volpon, head of  emerging
markets  research for Nomura Securities International Inc.  Bloomberg data based on futures trading show that interest
rates may rise as soon as this week. That may not be a bet on a
Selic rate increase by policy makers, but rather a wager on a
jump in the DI rate, according to Volpon.  “Some of these very small stub hikes that you have this
year are really not expectations of a hike,” Volpon said in a
telephone interview from New York. “They’re just expectations
of the normalization of the spread.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  