-- Ramez Said to Expect Egypt Pound Stability on IMF, Inflows
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2013-01-15T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/ramez-said-to-expect-egypt-pound-stability-on-imf-inflows.html
Hisham Ramez, who is set to become
Egypt’s central bank governor next month, said a day before his
nomination that the pound may weaken more this quarter before
stabilizing as Egypt secures International Monetary Fund aid and
other inflows.  Ramez, managing director of  Commercial International Bank
Egypt SAE (COMI) , told investors and analysts on a Jan. 9 conference
call that he doesn’t expect the currency to weaken beyond about
6.7 Egyptian pounds a dollar by the end of March, according to
three people who were on the call. The pound has weakened about
6 percent to a record since the central bank started dollar
auctions Dec. 30 to limit the availability of foreign currencies
and conserve international reserves.  President Mohamed Mursi approved the nomination of Ramez, a
former deputy central bank governor, to succeed Farouk El-Okdah
and lead the bank through the worst currency crisis since the
2003 devaluation. Foreign reserves have plunged almost 60
percent since the 2011 uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak . The
pound has weakened 1.1 percent to 6.5827 a dollar since Ramez’s
comments on Jan. 9, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The forecast “seems quite reasonable,” Emad Mostaque, a
London-based investment strategist at Noah Capital Markets, said
by phone. “We need to see what the next reserves numbers are
going to be.”  Pound Depreciation  A spokesman for Commercial International Bank, who declined
to be named in line with company policy, confirmed Ramez spoke
about foreign exchange regulations on a Jan. 9 conference call.
He declined to provide the details of the comments. Ramez,
slated to take office Feb. 3 after the upper house of parliament
approves his nomination, didn’t answer a text message and calls
to his mobile phone.  The pound’s depreciation accelerated after the central bank
began dollar auctions with a limit on how much each bank can buy
amid a political crisis that disrupted IMF talks. The measures
add costs to average Egyptians to hedge against what investment
bank EFG-Hermes Holding SAE called a “mini devaluation.”  While welcoming the latest central bank exchange-rate
policy, Ramez said the move should have been made earlier, the
people said.  Banks and exchange houses have started charging customers
seeking foreign currencies fees of as much as 2 percent for any
sale. The central bank issued instructions to lower the fees to
between 0.5 percent and 1 percent for individuals and companies
wishing to buy dollars “for non-commercial purposes,”
according to Al Mal newspaper.  ‘Important Element’  “Hisham was a very important element in designing and
implementing monetary policy with Dr. Farouk el-Okdah,” former
Finance Minister  Samir Radwan  said by phone. “From that point
of view, we don’t expect any major upheavals because that is a
very sensitive file especially now when monetary policy is at
the center of negotiations with the IMF and the pound is under
pressure.”  The central bank’s reserves were little changed in December
at $15 billion even after Qatar doubled a deposit at the central
bank to $4 billion. That transfer took place last month, Nidal Assr, central bank’s sub-governor, said Jan. 10.  The government asked the IMF to delay the loan accord last
month after Mursi suspended tax increases linked to an economic
plan backed by the fund amid escalating political tensions. A
team from the Washington-based lender is due to arrive in  Egypt 
in two to three weeks, presidential spokesman Yasser Ali said
Jan. 8.  ‘Back on Track’  “We are going to be back on track very soon,” Prime
Minister Hisham Qandil said Jan. 13 at a conference in Cairo.
Egypt invited the IMF mission “to again realign the program so
we can move forward with our national reform program.”  The local currency will “never” weaken to the 7-pound
level, former Finance Minister Momtaz El-Saieed said Jan. 2. El-
Mursi el-Sayed Hegazi, a University of Alexandria economics
professor, replaced him as finance minister on Jan. 6 as part of
a cabinet shuffle.  Radwan said Ramez will be taking over at a critical time.  “You are managing a central bank in a country in crisis.
At the center of the crisis are the pressures on your
currency,” Radwan said. “His main challenges are the pound and
inflation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  