-- Rand Hits Six-Week Low as Amplats Output Cut Fuels Trade Concern
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-01-15T13:30:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/rand-falls-as-anglo-platinum-production-cut-fuels-trade-concern.html
The rand fell to its lowest level
against the dollar in almost six weeks after  Anglo American
Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  said it will idle shafts and cut output, fueling
concern  South Africa ’s current-account deficit will widen.  The rand slipped 0.9 percent to 8.7716 a dollar, the
weakest level since Dec. 6, as of 3:16 p.m. in Johannesburg, the
worst performer of 16 major currencies monitored by Bloomberg.
Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due December 2026 climbed
2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.13 percent.  Anglo Platinum, the biggest producer of the metal, said
today it will shut four shafts, cutting output by 400,000 ounces
and putting 14,000 jobs at risk. Metals and other minerals
accounted for 61 percent of South Africa’s exports in the first
11 months of 2012, according to government data. The trade
deficit in the same period was 112.7 billion rand ($13 billion),
more than six times bigger than a year earlier, putting pressure
on the current account and undermining the rand.  “One of the key risks for the rand is the extended
current-account deficit, and a large portion of that is related
to raw material output,” Mohammed Nalla, head of strategic
research at Nedbank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said by phone.
“The fact that we’re shutting down production will certainly
affect our ability to contract that deficit.”  Mining production contracted for a third straight month in
November, declining by 4.5 percent, Statistics South Africa
reported today. Shipments of precious metals and stones slumped
15 percent in the first 11 months of 2012, while base-metals
exports dropped 3.2 percent, even as total exports grew 1.4
percent, according to South African Revenue Service data.  Strike Activity  “From an immediate foreign-exchange impact, clearly this
reduces the supply from local miners that generate the bulk of
South Africa’s export earnings,”  George Glynos , a Johannesburg-
based analyst at ETM Analytics, and colleagues wrote in an e-
mailed note to clients. A further contraction in mining
production “could come as a reminder to investors of the
disruptive impact that all the current strike activity is
exerting on the South African economy,” the analysts wrote.  A wave of strikes over pay that started at South African
platinum mines and spread to gold, iron-ore, diamond and coal
producers, cut mining output by 10.1 billion rand last year,
costing  tax revenue , exports and jobs, according to the National
Treasury. At least 46 people were killed in violent clashes.  The Amplats review “is part of a much larger reassessment
of the competitiveness of the sector,” Peter Attard Montalto, a
London-based emerging-markets economist at Nomura International
Plc, wrote in an e-mailed comment. “It also increases sovereign
risk through increasing further the probability of unrest this
year. The rand’s negative bias could therefore continue.”  The extra cost of options contracts granting the right to
sell the rand over those to buy it in the next three months
jumped 41 basis points today to 3 percentage points, based on
the currency’s three-month risk-reversal rate, indicating
traders are at the most bearish on the rand since Dec. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  