-- RBS Said to Hold Talks With Yes Bank for Sale of Assets in India
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-01-15T06:14:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/rbs-said-to-hold-talks-with-yes-bank-for-sale-of-assets-in-india.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest government-owned lender, held an initial round
of talks with  Yes Bank Ltd. (YES)  for selling its assets in  India ,
said two people with knowledge of the discussions.  A final decision regarding the sale to Mumbai-based Yes
Bank hasn’t been taken, according to the people, who asked not
to be named as the matter is confidential. RBS has about 190
million pounds ($305 million) of assets in India, with 31
branches and 400,000 customers, the Edinburgh-based lender said
in a Nov. 30 statement.  RBS is in discussions with other lenders as well and is
also open to shutting down the operations in the South Asian
country, one of the people said. The talks with Yes Bank were
reported earlier today by the Business Standard newspaper. Pooja
Sehgal, a New Delhi-based spokeswoman for RBS, and George Koshy,
the Mumbai-based spokesman for Yes Bank, declined to comment.  Shares of Yes Bank rose 2.8 percent to a record 520.5
rupees as of 11:16 a.m. in Mumbai trading today, making it the
best performer on the  Bankex Index (BANKEX) , which tracks the stocks of
14 Indian lenders.  A proposed sale of the assets to  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  for an
undisclosed amount collapsed last year, RBS said on Nov. 30.
That transaction had been initially announced in July 2010.  The lender has since also held talks to sell the operations
to  IndusInd Bank Ltd. (IIB) , two people with knowledge of the matter
said. The Mumbai-based lender is unlikely to bid for the asset
because of the valuation, one of the people said, without
disclosing the price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  