-- Treasury Yields at Almost Lowest of Year on Debt Debate
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-01-15T22:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/treasuries-hold-gain-amid-debt-ceiling-debate.html
Treasuries rose for a third day,
pushing yields to almost the lowest this year, as demand for the
safest assets was boosted by speculation a political showdown
over the U.S. debt limit will slow the world’s biggest economy.  Benchmark  10-year yields  dropped after Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  said a failure to increase the debt ceiling
by early March would “impose severe economic hardship.” Such
lack of action by lawmakers would prompt a “formal review” of
the U.S. credit ranking, Fitch Ratings said in a press release.
Wholesale prices dropped for a third month, indicating little
risk of a pickup in inflation and allowing the Fed to keep
adding monetary stimulus without triggering a surge in prices.
Rates on Treasury bills rose to the highest since November.  “We are in a low-rate environment,” said Thomas di Galoma, a managing director at Navigate Advisors LLC, a
brokerage for institutional investors in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“It’s hard to make the argument for growing gross domestic
product when taxes have been raised, and with spending cuts and
the debt-ceiling uncertainty ahead. The Fed is still driving the
market.”  The 10-year  yield  declined one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.83 percent at 5 p.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yield touched
1.81 percent, the lowest since Jan. 2. The 1.625 percent note
due in November 2022 rose 3/32, or 94 cents per $1,000 face
amount, to 98 4/32.  Thirty-year yields  fell one basis point to 3.03 percent
after touching 2.99 percent, the least since Jan. 2.  Bill Rates  Rates on Treasury bills maturing around the time the U.S.
is forecast to run out of money to pay its obligations are
higher than those on longer-maturity securities, suggesting
investors are concerned lawmakers may fail to agree to lift the
debt ceiling.  Feb. 28 bill rates rose to 0.108 percent, an increase of 2
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, and the highest since
Nov. 14. That compares with 0.08 percent for bills due April 18.
At the end of last year, the April bills yielded 7 basis points
more than the February securities.  U.S. government securities traded at the most expensive
level since Jan. 1. The 10-year term premium, a model created by
economists at the Fed that includes expectations for  interest
rates , growth and inflation, touched negative 0.77 percent, the
average for 2012, after reaching negative 0.67 percent on Jan.
3, the least costly level since May.  A negative reading indicates investors are willing to
accept yields below what’s considered fair value.  Debt Ceiling  With as little as a month until the U.S. runs out of money
to pay its bills, President  Barack Obama  warned Republicans in
Congress yesterday not to use the need for a debt-limit increase
to force through new spending cuts. Obama insisted he won’t
negotiate on raising the debt ceiling because the U.S. has no
choice other than to pay for spending it has authorized. Many
Republicans in Congress say a boost in borrowing authority must
be linked to spending cuts.  “I don’t think people are thinking that we’re going to
just fail -- it’s a temporary thing,” said  David Ader , head of
U.S. government bond strategy at CRT Capital Group LLC in
Stamford, Connecticut. “Under any circumstance, we can pay the
debt. The question is the politics of it.”  ‘Right Direction’  The Treasury Department has been using  emergency measures 
since the end of December to prevent a breach of the $16.4
trillion debt limit. In a letter yesterday to House Speaker  John
Boehner , Geithner said the department expects to exhaust those
measures “between mid-February and early March.”  As the U.S. government spends more than it receives in
taxes and other revenue, the debt limit is the total dollar
amount the U.S. is allowed to borrow to pay its bills. Such
borrowing can be used only to pay for spending authorized by
Congress.  The limit was periodically raised since its creation in
1917. Congress increased the debt ceiling to reflect the cost of
World War II, and lowered the level after the war ended. Since
1960, Congress has raised or revised the limit 79 times,
including 49 times under Republican presidents, according to the
Treasury Department.  Fitch Ratings  said its AAA credit rankings on  France  and
the U.K. are also likely to come under pressure this year due to
slow economic growth and high debt levels.  The global  bond market  disagreed with Moody’s Investors
Service and Standard & Poor’s more often than not last year when
the companies told investors that governments were becoming
safer or more risky. Yields on sovereign securities moved in the
opposite direction from what ratings suggested in 53 percent of
the 32 upgrades, downgrades and changes in credit outlook,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Treasuries have dropped 0.4 percent in the first two weeks
of January, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show, after
returning 9.79 percent in 2011 and 2.2 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  