-- Treasury Bill Rate Curve Inverts Amid Debt-Ceiling Showdown
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-01-15T18:57:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/treasury-bill-rate-curve-inverts-amid-debt-ceiling-showdown.html
Rates on Treasury bills maturing
around the time the U.S. is forecast to run out of money to pay
its obligations are higher than those on longer-maturity
securities, suggesting investors are concerned lawmakers may
fail to agree to lift the debt ceiling.  Feb. 28 bill rates rose to 0.108 percent, an increase of 2
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, and the highest since
Nov. 14. That compares with 0.08 percent for bills due April 18.
At the end of last year, the April bills yielded 7 basis points
more than the February securities.  “You can see the debt-ceiling-related move pretty clearly
now in the bill curve, which is a dynamic that only started in
the last two days,” Andrew Hollenhorst, fixed-income strategist
at Citigroup Inc. in  New York , said in a telephone interview.
“We think it is an opportunity. It’s very unlikely that
payments would actually be delayed. If you’re an investor who
can take advantage of the tactical situation, we’d wait for
yields to move a little bit higher in those maturities and then
think about investing.”  The Treasury reached its statutory borrowing limit on Dec.
31 and is using “extraordinary” measures to pay for the
government. It will lack sufficient funds to pay all its bills
as early as Feb. 15, according to the Washington-based
Bipartisan Policy Center.  Debt Ceiling  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  warned yesterday of
severe economic hardship should Congress fail to raise the debt
ceiling that lawmakers have increased or revised 79 times since
1960, including 49 times under Republican presidents. President
 Barack Obama  vowed he won’t negotiate over raising the
government’s debt ceiling even as he offered to deal on a
separate track with the  deficit reduction  demanded by
Republicans.  Short-term Treasury bill rates, as well as those for
borrowing and lending government debt for one day in the
repurchase-agreement market, rose to more than a two-year high
in the summer of 2011 as Republicans and Democrats tried then to
also push through a deal to lift the nation’s debt limit and
avoid a default.  “Even though the probability of a delayed payment or an
accidental default or outright default by the Treasury is still
very, very, very low, people in the money markets are still
behaving cautiously,” Joe Abate, a strategist at Barclays Plc
in New York, said in a telephone interview. “Things for a 10-
day period in 2011 got very sloppy and very ugly. I think we
will see that again here because I don’t expect to see an
agreement by Feb. 15.”  The  one-month  Treasury bill rate surged to as high as 0.183
percent on July 29, 2011, the highest since February 2009, and
up from as low as negative 0.0101 percent during the first half
of that year.  The average level of  overnight  Treasury general collateral
repo rates traded through 10 a.m. New York time with ICAP Plc,
the world’s largest inter-dealer broker, touched as high as 0.32
percent on Aug. 1, 2011, the highest since March 2, 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  