-- Treasury Selloff Poised to End, Citi Says: Technical Analysis
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-01-15T16:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/treasury-selloff-poised-to-end-citi-says-technical-analysis.html
Treasury  10-year notes , off to the
worst start in a decade, may be poised to turn around after
failing to sustain a rise in yield to levels that would have
confirmed bearish sentiment, according to Citigroup Inc.  A closing yield of below 1.84 percent today will signal the
selloff that sent the yield on the benchmark security as high as
1.97 percent on an intraday basis and 1.91 on a closing basis
was a so-called false break of the current technical trading
trend, Citigroup said. Ten-year yields have failed to sustain a
move above 1.89 percent, a technical level that would have meant
higher yields.  “We’ve tested these levels a number of times, and each
time the market bounced back, and we are looking like we are
going to reject it again, suggesting the selloff may have run
its course,” Tom Fitzpatrick, chief technical analyst at
Citigroup in New York, said in a telephone interview. “The
start of the last few years has seen similar early optimism met
with resistance, and this is very similar. It’s typically
followed by lower yields.”  The 10-year yield declined three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.82 percent at 11:32 a.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yield reached
1.81 percent, the lowest since Jan. 2. The 1.625 percent note
due in November 2022 gained 7/32, or $2.19 per $1,000 face
amount, to 98 7/32.  Premature Optimism  A rejection of higher yields will set the stage for a move
lower that could push the benchmark security to as low as 1
percent by the middle of the year, Fitzpatrick said.  “The optimism about the economic and employment pickup is
premature,” Fitzpatrick said. “We are in an atmosphere where
taxes are being raised and spending is being cut, which means
lower growth. As a result the Fed will be more dovish than they
would have been, which is good news for Treasuries.”  Ten-year notes have lost 0.96 percent this year, more than
double the 0.43 percent loss in the broader Treasury market,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The last
time the security started the year worse was 2003, when it lost
1.89 percent.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 Ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  