-- Renault to Cut 17% of French Jobs on European Car Market
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-01-15T17:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/renault-to-eliminate-7-500-french-positions-in-next-four-years.html
Renault SA (RNO) , the automaker whose
sales in Europe dropped the most in 2012, will cut 17 percent of
its French workforce in the next four years to reduce costs as
the region’s market sinks for a sixth straight year in 2013.  Renault plans to eliminate 7,500 positions through 2016 at
its French operations, Sophie Chantegay, a spokeswoman for the
Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based company, said in a phone
interview. The automaker will cut 5,700 of the posts through
attrition, she said.  The measures are intended to reduce Renault’s fixed costs
by 396 million euros ($528 million), Dominique Chauvin, head of
the CFE-CGC union at Renault, said by phone today, citing a
management briefing of labor leaders. The manufacturer’s
production in  France  last year fell 18 percent to 530,000 cars,
Chauvin said.  “It’s definitely an important and necessary step to do,”
said Sascha Gommel, an analyst at Commerzbank AG with a hold
recommendation on the shares. “Everything that reduces the cost
base in the high-cost countries in western Europe is positive.”  Renault Chief Executive Officer Carlos Ghosn said in an
interview earlier today in  Detroit  that the European car market
will drop another 3 percent this year after contracting in 2012
to a two-decade low.  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and
 General Motors Co. (GM)  are reducing workforces and closing plants in
response to plunging demand amid recessions in the region.  No Firings  “If an agreement is signed with unions, this staff
redeployment would require neither a plant closing nor any
forced departures,” Gerard Leclercq, Renault’s head of
operations in France, said in an e-mailed statement. Renault
notified unions today that the cuts are needed for its
automotive operations in France to break even, he said.  Renault  rose  1.8 percent to 41.59 euros at the close in
Paris, the highest price since Dec. 19. The stock has gained 35
percent in the past 12 months, valuing the manufacturer at 12.3
billion euros.  First-half earnings before interest, taxes and one-time
gains or costs fell 23 percent to 482 million euros, Renault
said in July. Revenue declined 0.8 percent as delivery drops in
 Europe  overcame gains elsewhere, it said.  Steepest Drop  The carmaker’s 19 percent sales drop in Europe in the first
11 months of 2012 was the steepest among major producers there,
according to the  European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association .
Industrywide registrations fell 7.2 percent in the period. The
Brussels-based association, known as the ACEA, is scheduled to
report full-year figures for the market tomorrow.  Peugeot, Europe’s second-biggest carmaker, is eliminating
11,200 French jobs, or 17 percent of its workforce there, and
closing a factory on the outskirts of Paris. GM is shuttering a
plant in  Germany , putting 3,100 positions at risk, while Ford’s
European division is halting operations at three factories and
cutting 5,700 posts.  Renault isn’t planning any factory shutdowns in France,
Ghosn said in the interview today at the North American
International Auto Show in Detroit.  Speaking at a press conference at the show,  Fiat SpA (F)  Chief
Executive Officer Sergio Marchionne said that Europe’s volume-
car industry was in a “painful” situation, with no one making
money. His request for a European Union plan to cut automaking
capacity to match demand has been “ignored,” he said.  Fiat said on Dec. 7 it would eliminate 1,500 jobs at its
Polish operations to reduce production as it expects to lose 700
million euros in Europe in 2012. The cuts will affect a plant in
Tychy as well as sales staff across the country, the Turin,
Italy-based carmaker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  