-- Rio Tinto Fourth-Quarter Iron Ore Output Beats Estimates
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-01-15T05:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/rio-tinto-fourth-quarter-iron-ore-output-beats-analyst-estimates.html
Rio Tinto  Group, the world’s second-
largest mining company, posted better-than-expected fourth-
quarter iron ore output and said it’s pressing ahead with
expansion of its biggest business.  Rio’s share of iron ore production rose to 52 million
metric tons in the three months to Dec. 31 from 51.2 million
tons a year earlier, the London-based company said today in a
statement. That compares with the median forecast of 50.6
million tons of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Markets remain volatile, but our business continues to
perform well,” Chief Executive Officer Tom Albanese said in the
statement. “Across the group we are taking action to roll back
unsustainable cost increases. This further enhances our
resilience and competitive edge as we enter 2013.”  Rio, the biggest iron ore exporter after  Brazil ’s  Vale SA (VALE3) ,
reiterated its aim to boost annual capacity in Australia’s
Pilbara region, pressing ahead with the expansion of its most
profitable unit at the same time it seeks to cut $5 billion in
 costs  across operations by 2014. A sharp iron ore recovery from
near three-year lows in September has offered some respite to
producers grappling with rising costs.  Rio was little changed at A$65.90 at the close of trade in
Sydney. The company’s shares have gained 1.6 percent in the past
year.  Price Gain  Iron ore prices  have recovered 78 percent since the
September low to reach a 15-month high, and are forecast to
average $120 a ton in the first quarter, according to analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. An improvement in  China’s
economy , the biggest metals consumer, has helped commodity
prices. A measure of manufacturing activity showing a third
month of expansion has added to evidence that  China ’s recovery
is extending into the new year.  Rio’s expansion in the Pilbara to 290 million tons by the
end of this year remains on track, with production scheduled to
rise to 360 million tons by the first half of 2015, it said.  Mined copper production in the fourth quarter rose 20
percent to 163,900 tons, after higher ore grades at Escondida,
the world’s biggest copper mine. Refined copper output was up 7
percent at 86,200 tons compared with a year earlier.  Thermal coal production rose 40 percent in the quarter to
6.2 million tons, while coking coal, used to make steel, fell 27
percent to 1.9 million tons after maintenance shutdowns at two
of its mines in  Australia .  Controlling Costs  “In response to lower coal prices, a high Australian
dollar and high input costs impacting the coal industry in
Australia, Rio Tinto is actively reducing controllable costs in
this business,” the company said in the statement.  Rio expects to conclude a review of its Gove bauxite and
alumina operations in Australia’s Northern Territory by the end
of the month and may decide to halt production should it fail to
ensure supply of cheaper natural gas to power the refinery.  The company is pursuing a potential sale of 13 aluminum
assets to improve the group’s financial performance. It’s also
conducting a review of its diamond business, comprising three
mines in  Canada , Australia and  Zimbabwe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  