-- Road, Power Gaps May Cost U.S. GDP $3.1 Trillion, Group Says
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-01-15T17:09:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/road-power-gaps-may-cost-u-s-gdp-3-1-trillion-group-says-1-.html
Increasing annual infrastructure
spending in the U.S. by $157 billion over the next eight years
would save $3.1 trillion in gross domestic product, $1.1
trillion in trade and 3.5 million jobs, according to a new report.  Current U.S. policies will underfund surface
transportation, aviation, waterways, the electrical grid and
sewers by about $1.1 trillion through 2020, the  American Society
of Civil Engineers  said today. The $157 billion would be on top
of expected U.S. spending of about $207 billion a year, the
group said.  “Infrastructure is the lifeblood of our economy and
provides the foundation for assuring a high quality of life for
all Americans,” said Gregory E. DiLoreto, president of ASCE,
said in a news conference. “If we don’t invest now, all
Americans will pay more in the long run.”  Without the added investment, business costs will increase
by $1.2 trillion and household costs by $611 billion, the group
said.  “Public and private investment and new, innovative
strategies are needed to repair, rebuild and revitalize the
nation’s transportation systems,” said Janet Kavinoky,
 executive director  for transportation and infrastructure at the
 U.S. Chamber of Commerce , the biggest U.S. business lobbying
group.  Low  Mississippi  River water levels that have restricted
barge traffic have put a spotlight on a fragile waterways
system, said Rick Calhoun, president of Cargo Carriers,
Minneapolis-based Cargill Inc.’s transportation subsidiary.  About $2.8 billion of commodities was at risk when it
looked like barge traffic was going to stop, according to
American Waterways Operators, a trade group based in Arlington,
Virginia.  “I fear the near closure of the river is simply a preview
of what will happen when we have a catastrophic failure of a
lock or dam” on the upper Mississippi, Calhoun said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  