-- Mrs. Watanabe Fleeing Brazil Taxes Buys Lira Debt: Turkey Credit
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-01-15T15:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/mrs-watanabe-fleeing-brazil-taxes-buys-lira-debt-turkey-credit.html
Lira bonds sold to individual
Japanese investors exceeded those for all other  emerging markets 
last year as Turkish inflation slowed and higher-yielding  Brazil 
fell out of favor amid tax increases and a weakening currency.  The amount of uridashi bonds issued in liras jumped 72
percent in 2012 to an all-time high of $3.7 billion, second only
to the bonds in Australian dollars at $6.7 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The volume of bonds in Brazilian
real dropped 27 percent last year to $3.05 billion.  Foreign investors boosted holdings of Turkish bonds to a
record last year, lured by yields of about 8.4 percent on
average for two-year local currency debt as the country won
investment-grade status and the central bank used an interest-
rate corridor to rein in inflation and the current-account
deficit. Japanese investors, faced with a yield of 0.81 percent
on 10-year bonds and a weakening currency, may be spurred to buy
foreign assets, including lira bonds, according to UBS AG.  “ Turkey  has given investors an opportunity to diversify
away from Latin America,” Mariya Gancheva, an emerging-market
strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities International Plc, said
by phone from  London  yesterday. Japanese investors’ appetite for
Turkish debt was underpinned by, “maybe unorthodox but quite
successful moves from the central bank to keep everything under
control when  Europe  was under pressure,” she said.  Uridashi Demand  Sales of so-called uridashi bonds, issued in Japan and
denominated in foreign currencies, totaled $19.5 billion in 2012
compared with $21.8 billion a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Trades involving borrowing in low-cost
nations to invest in economies with higher interest rates have
been popular among investors in  Japan , where government bonds
have the second-lowest yields, after Switzerland. Those
investors are sometimes called “Mrs. Watanabe,” a reference to
housewife investors who control family budgets.  Carry trades in Turkish lira returned 30 percent last year
in yen terms, the best performance in emerging markets after the
Polish zloty and the Hungarian forint, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Investors who borrowed in yen and
invested in Brazilian local debt gained 9.8 percent in the
period.  Since 2010, Brazilian policy makers have sought to weaken
the currency to protect manufacturers by buying dollars and
imposing taxes on overseas investors and foreign-currency loans.  Funding Cost  Brazil’s financial operations tax, combined with regulatory
changes and currency concerns, “was enough for Japan investors
to get a bit nervous and look for diversification,”  Win Thin ,
global head of emerging-markets strategy at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. in New York, said by e-mail yesterday. “New
money is going elsewhere, like Turkey.”  Two-year Turkish government  debt  yielded 6.02 percent at
5:00 p.m. in Istanbul today, the fourth highest in emerging
markets, even after falling 483 basis points in 2012. The rate
on similar-maturity Brazilian notes topped a list of 20 major
developing nations tracked by Bloomberg at 7.77 percent.  The Turkish central bank cut the  average cost of funding 
for lenders to 5.51 percent on Dec. 25 from 11.93 percent on
Jan. 6, 2012, as economic growth slowed to 1.6 percent in the
third quarter, the lowest level since a 2009 recession. Policy
makers lowered the benchmark repurchase rate in December by 25
basis points to a record 5.5 percent.  Extra Yield  Fitch Ratings raised Turkey’s foreign-currency ranking by
one level to BBB- from BB+ on Nov. 5, citing an easing in
economic risk and lower debt levels.  The country’s first investment grade in 18 years “has
given a lot of confidence to the market.” Mitsubishi UFJ’s
Gancheva said.  Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities was the biggest
manager of uridashi bonds last year with 19.5 percent of the
total issuance, according to Bloomberg data.  The lira weakened 0.1 percent to 1.7697 per dollar.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Turkey’s dollar-
denominated bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries rose five basis
point, or 0.05 percentage point, to 185 basis points, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index. The average spread
for developing-nation debt also rose three basis points to 267.  Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps on Turkey, rated Ba1, the highest non-
investment-grade status at Moody’s Investors Service, rose one
basis point to 123, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That compares with 114 for Brazil and 127 for  Russia . The
contracts, which rise as investor perception of creditworthiness
deteriorates, pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Foreign investors have been net buyers of $16 billion in
bonds and $6.3 billion in Turkish stocks in the past 12 months,
according to data from the central bank published on Jan. 10.  “For now, it seems the Turkish central bank is happy to
accommodate modest lira upside and that should act as a tailwind
for uridashi and pension fund flows into Turkish lira assets,”
 Manik Narain , an emerging-markets strategist at UBS in London,
said yesterday in e-mailed comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  