-- Rubenstein Fetes Teachers, Italians Fix Organ: D.C. Scene
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-01-15T15:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/rubenstein-fetes-teachers-italians-fix-organ-d-c-scene.html
Carlyle Group (CG)  LP founder  David Rubenstein  credits his first-grade teacher for inspiring his
love of reading.  She helped him get his first library card. Today he reads
ten newspapers a day and three to four books a week.  He was a presenter last night at the Kennedy Center’s “A
Standing Ovation for DC Teachers,” where seven local
instructors and one principal were saluted for excellence.  Among the other presenters were Lazard Freres Senior
Managing Director Vernon Jordan who said he’s still haunted by
the admonitions of his English teacher when he writes a letter.  Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius
said she was inspired by a nun in her all-girls school to love
“algebra and basketball.”  Singer Roberta Flack, a Washington native, said her Sunday
School teacher nurtured her interest in music. She performed her
hit “The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face.”  The third annual event was hosted by the DC Public Education
Fund, which recruits, trains and rewards teachers in Washington.  Rubenstein,  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , and Capital One were among the
sponsors.  Organ Repair  The Aeolian organ at Villa Firenze, the official residence
of Italian Ambassador Claudio Bisogniero, is breathing again
after a decades-long hiatus.  Guests including Supreme Court justices  Ruth Bader Ginsburg 
and  Stephen Breyer  celebrated the organ’s resuscitation with a
concert and buffet dinner Friday night.  Emilio Petrone, the chief executive officer of Sisal SpA,
paid 60,000 euros ($80,000) for the repair of the organ, which
hasn’t been used since the Italian government bought the house
in 1976.  Organist Jeremy Filsell played tunes by Italian composers
Girolamo Frescobaldi and Ottorino Respighi. He ended with Bach’s
“Toccata and Fugue in D Minor.”  Jacqueline Badger Mars of Mars Inc., who attended the
recital, also ventured out Thursday night to the Washington
Winter Show, an annual antiques and fine-arts fundraiser for
local charities.  ‘Sporting Life’  This year’s theme was “the sporting life.” Paintings of
hunting scenes and equine luxuries abounded at American
University’s Katzen Arts Center.  Event sponsor PNC Bank was represented by regional
president Michael Harreld, who said he and his wife collect
English antiques.  The Louisville native is no stranger to the horsey set. A
racing enthusiast, Harreld was involved in the  Kentucky Derby 
“for 37 years straight.”  He chatted with French Ambassador Francois Delattre -- he
and his wife are the show’s honorary diplomatic chairmen -- who
revealed he was “exhausted” after moving his family into a new
home. His official residence is undergoing extensive
renovations.  He was joined by compatriot Menehould de Bazelaire, the
director of cultural heritage for  Hermes (RMS) , Paris.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Jeffrey Burke on  books ,  Robert
Heller  on  music .  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 