-- Russia Holds Rates as Slumping Economy Sets Stage to Ease
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-01-15T09:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/russia-holds-rates-as-slumping-economy-sets-stage-to-ease.html
Russia  left borrowing costs
unchanged this month and dropped a phrase that money-market
rates are acceptable for the “nearest future,” a sign interest
rates may be cut as early as next month to bolster growth.  Bank Rossii held the refinancing rate at 8.25 percent for a
fourth month, the Moscow-based central bank said in a statement
on its website today. The decision was forecast by all 19
economists in a Bloomberg  survey . The overnight and one-week
repurchase rates used to provide banks with cash were kept at
5.5 percent and the overnight deposit rate was held at 4.5
percent, also in line with forecasts.  Chairman Sergey Ignatiev, whose final term expires in June,
is fine-tuning the bank’s interest-rate outlook as the economy
slows to the weakest pace since a  recovery  began in 2010 and
policy makers from  Poland  to  Israel  lower borrowing costs to
jumpstart expansion. Inflation in Russia quickened to 6.8
percent from a year earlier as of Jan. 9, up from 6.6 percent in
December, the central bank said.  “The main surprise was that they removed the phrase,”
Maxim Oreshkin, chief economist for Russia at VTB Capital in
Moscow, said by phone. “Still, I don’t expect any changes to
key rates at the February meeting, although they may change
lesser rates like they did with currency swaps in December.”  Policy makers last month reduced the cost to swap foreign
currency in rubles by a quarter point to 6.5 percent while also
raising the amount it pays on overnight deposits to 4.5 percent.
Bank Rossii said the move was “neutral” for monetary policy.
Economists said the easing effects of the cheaper swaps
outweighed the less-used deposit rate.  Yields Dive  Russia’s one-year government bond yields tumbled five basis
points to 5.835 percent as of 12:30 p.m. in Moscow, according to
an  index  compiled by the Moscow Exchange. A close at that level
would be the lowest since Sept. 23, 2011. The ruble appreciated
0.2 percent to 30.1895 per dollar as of 12:32 p.m. The Micex
Index of 50 stocks held losses and was 0.5 percent lower at
1,521.62.  Policy makers dropped wording used in last month’s
statement that money market rates were at an acceptable level
for the “nearest future.” The phrase is understood by the
market to mean no change at the next meeting, First Deputy
Chairman Alexey Ulyukayev said in an interview to Interfax last
month.  Cooling Economy  Data releases for November suggested the economy continued
to cool gradually, with industrial output and retail trade
stabilizing at “low” growth levels and investment slowing,
Bank Rossii said in the statement. The labor market and credit
expansion remain supportive of domestic demand, according to the
statement.  “The decision was made based on an assessment of inflation
risks and the prospects for economic growth,” the central bank
said. The next meeting is planned for the first half of
February, according to the statement.  Price growth quickened to 6.6 percent in December from a
year earlier after remaining at 6.5 percent in the previous two
months. The central bank wants to hold inflation at 5 percent to
6 percent this year, a target range it was forced to abandon
last year.  The December increase was driven by food prices and
passenger transport costs, while price-growth for non-food items
“remained measured,” Bank Rossii said in the statement.  Putin’s Priority  President  Vladimir Putin , who won re-election to a third
term last year, said Dec. 12 that working further to contain
price growth remains a top priority and may take precedence over
short-term growth.  The threat of inflation was ranked alongside low  living
standards  as the second-biggest problem facing the country,
according to a Jan. 9  poll  published by the state-run All-
Russian Center for the Study of  Public Opinion .  Economic growth slowed to 2.9 percent in the third quarter
compared with a year ago, down from 4.9 percent in the first
quarter. The expansion probably decelerated further in the final
three months of 2012, with gross domestic product expanding just
2.5 percent, according to the median estimate of 14 economists
in a Bloomberg survey.  “The central bank dropped the phrase about rates being
acceptable because it’s preparing conditions to ease monetary
policy,” Maria Pomelnikova, an analyst at ZAO Raiffeisenbank in
Moscow, said by phone. “But this doesn’t mean a rate cut will
happen at the meetings in February or March. We wouldn’t expect
any measures before the second quarter.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  