-- Sanderson CEO Says Food-Service Demand May Be in Recovery
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-01-15T19:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/sanderson-ceo-says-food-service-demand-may-be-in-recovery.html
Sanderson Farms Inc. (SAFM) , the fourth-
largest U.S. chicken producer, said rising prices for boneless,
skinless breast meat indicate that demand from U.S. food service
may have bottomed in recent months.  “What we’ve seen in November, December and January is
hopeful,” Joe Sanderson Jr., chief executive officer of the
Laurel, Mississippi-based chicken processor, said in a telephone
interview today. “We have to see it a little longer before we
can say things are improving.”  About 40 percent of Sanderson’s sales come from food-
service customers including restaurants such as Chili’s, On the
Border and Arby’s, he said. Customers have told him that while
business is still “soft” it is “no worse,” Sanderson said.
Chicken demand also accelerated during the fourth quarter as
food-service operators featured poultry over other meats,
according to a Jan. 14 report by BB&T  Capital Markets .  Prices for boneless, skinless breast meat, a staple of the
American diet, didn’t drop in November and December and the
usual seasonal gain in the market this month occurred amid
potentially more chicken production, Sanderson said. U.S.
broiler chicken production will be 36.4 billion pounds in 2013,
up from a December forecast for 36.1 billion pounds and less
than half a percent below a year earlier, the Department of
Agriculture said on Jan. 11.  Sanderson plans to reduce its production 1.1 percent for
the fiscal year through October to about 2.93 billion pounds,
the company said in December.  Improving Economy  The  price  for boneless, skinless breast meat today is about
$1.44 a pound, up about 4.3 percent, according to industry
researcher Urner Barry, Sanderson said. The price of wings also
has risen to a record and may climb more leading up to the  Super
Bowl , Sanderson said while declining to provide a forecast.  Incrementally lower U.S. unemployment, which dropped to 7.8
percent last month from 8.5 percent a year ago, is helping
stabilize restaurant traffic and a resolution to the debt
ceiling debate in  Washington  may help further, Sanderson said.  “If that were to be resolved, that would make people feel
better,” he said. The debt ceiling debate in August 2011 “put
a damper on the  U.S. economy  and  consumer spending ,” he said.  Sanderson said he is also watching the moisture in the U.S.
midwest as farmers prepare to plant corn and soybeans in a few
months and looking for the South American harvest to ease demand
on U.S. crops.  Tyson Foods Inc. was the largest U.S. chicken processor in
2011, followed by JBS SA’s Pilgrim’s Pride Corp. unit and
closely held Perdue Inc., Tyson said on its website citing
industry publication Watt Poultry USA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  