-- Sao Martinho Poised to Lead Sugarmakers Profit: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2013-01-15T18:45:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/sao-martinho-poised-to-lead-sugarmakers-profit-corporate-brazil.html
Sao Martinho SA (SMTO3) , owner of the
world’s largest cane-processing plant, is forecast to post the
biggest profit gain among major sugar makers this year as it
boosts productivity to process a  bumper crop .  Earnings will more than double to 1.88 reais a share in
2013, the best increase among the top five producers by market
value worldwide, according to the median of analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Cosan SA Industria & Comercio’s earnings
are set to rise 78 percent, the second-biggest increase.  The planned takeover of the Usina Santa Cruz mill this year
will help Sao Martinho, the industry’s most cost-efficient
maker, to reduce costs and bolster profit, Giovana Araujo, an
analyst at  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4)  said. Brazil’s Center South,
the world’s largest producing region, is expected by industry
leader Cosan to reap a record 580 million metric tons of cane
and make 36 million tons of the sweetener from the harvest that
starts in April.  “They will gain control over a state-of-the art facility
that is next door to Sao Martinho’s main mill and should help
dilute costs,” Araujo, who rates the stock the equivalent of
buy, said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “It’s a
sweet deal because it’s almost a non-cash deal.”  Pradopolis-based Sao Martinho, Brazil’s biggest sugar and
ethanol maker by market value after Cosan, rose 0.5 percent to
28.93 reais at 4:44 p.m. in Sao Paulo. Shares have  soared  68
percent in the past 12 months, while Cosan rose 57 percent and
 Tereos Internacional SA (TERI3)  gained 15 percent. The shares  trade  at
27.2 times estimated 2013 earnings, compared with 11.9 for Cosan
and 13.3 for Tereos, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sugar is forecast to rise to 20.6 cents per pound at the
end of this year, from 18.9 cents yesterday, trading in forward
contracts show.  ‘Smart Move’  The cost to produce sweetener and ethanol from sugar cane
represented 47 percent of sales at Sao Martinho in the six
months ended Sept. 30, the best ratio among Brazil’s major
producers. That compares with 79 percent for Cosan’s sugar unit
and 84 percent for Tereos, both based in  Sao Paulo .  “They are the benchmark in terms of industrial
efficiency,” Henrique Koch, an analyst at  Banco do Brasil SA ,
said in a telephone interview Jan. 7. “They are adding capacity
and at the same time securing cheap cane supplies. It’s a smart
move.”  An official at Sao Martinho, who declined to be named
because of internal policy, had no comment.  Sao Martinho plans to expand crushing capacity by a third
to 19.5 million tons in two years after it takes control of the
Santa Cruz mill, investor relations manager Felipe Vicchiato
said last month. Under the plan, Sao Martinho will boost its
stake in the mill to 87.5 percent from 32.2 percent and pay with
the 18 percent it owns in farmland company Agropecuaria Boa
Vista SA. Separately, Sao Martinho is investing $120 million to
add processing at existing plants.  Weather Risk  Last month, the company bought farmland for 199.6 million
reais from Amsterdam-based Louis Dreyfus Holding BV. Brazilian
sugar-cane prices almost doubled in four years amid bad weather
that reduced crops, according to the Consecana pricing system
that is used to pay growers. Sugar fell 16 percent in 2012.  The biggest risk for Sao Martinho’s profitability would be
harvesting delays in the event of excess rain or damage to crops
if there’s a dry spell, said William Alves, an analyst at XP
Investimentos who covers the stock.  “I like the company, but in the end when you talk about
cane, weather conditions play a key role,” Alves said in a Jan.
10 telephone interview from  Rio de Janeiro . “Who knows what
will happen if the weather doesn’t help?”  Sugar Prices  Increasing demand for ethanol, which South American millers
make from sugar cane, will support prices for the sweetener even
as Brazil reaps a record crop, Itau’s Araujo said. The price of
sugar will likely fall to an average of 19 cents a pound in  New
York  in the crop year that starts April 1, from about 20 cents
in the current crop year.  Raw sugar for March delivery dropped 1.4 percent to 18.9
cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York yesterday.  Sugar accounts for about 67 percent of Sao Martinho’s
sales. Brazil produces about 45 percent of global sugar exports
and is the biggest ethanol producer after the U.S., where the
biofuel is made from corn.  “A record cane crop in  Brazil  is not necessarily bad news
for sugar, as prices are expected to remain at profitable
levels,” Araujo said. “The scenario is good for most mills,
and the most efficient, like Sao Martinho, are poised to gain
the most.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  