-- SAP Shares Fall After Earnings Trail Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-01-15T17:44:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/sap-operating-profit-misses-analysts-estimates.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the biggest maker of
business-management software, fell the most in six months after
reporting earnings that trailed analysts’ estimates because of
rising spending and slowing growth in the Americas.  Fourth-quarter operating profit excluding some items rose
about 10 percent to 1.96 billion euros ($2.6 billion), the
Walldorf, Germany-based company said today. Analysts had
projected 2 billion euros, the average of estimates compiled by
Bloomberg showed. Sales of new software licenses, an indicator
of future revenue, also trailed projections.  Software-revenue growth in the Americas slowed to 3 percent
from 37 percent in the preceding three months, signaling
competition from archrival  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  may have intensified.
SAP had outgrown its  peers  in the past year, sending its stock
up 50 percent last year.  “They had such good momentum through the last couple of
months that now the market is disappointed if they don’t over-
deliver,” said Heinz Steffen, a Fairesearch GmbH analyst in
Kronberg,  Germany , who advises adding SAP stock. “Fundamentally
the results are OK, and they just have to get on with it.”  SAP fell 3.9 percent to close at 58.70 euros in  Frankfurt ,
the steepest decline since July 6. Oracle declined 0.7 percent
to $34.70 as of 12:43 p.m. in  New York .  SAP is scheduled to give 2013 forecasts on Jan. 23.  New Businesses  Software-revenue growth in the Americas lagged behind gains
of 23 percent in the Asia-Pacific and Japan region and 8 percent
in  Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa . Full-time employees rose
by almost 8,700 during the year, equivalent to a 16 percent
increase, and included more than 4,800 from acquisitions.  Co-Chief Executive Officers  Bill McDermott  and Jim Hagemann Snabe are trying to prove that new businesses such as Internet-
based software can become dependable earnings generators to
complement the traditional on-premises business.  “We invested significantly in key innovations while
expanding our global go-to-market activities to further
strengthen our mid-term growth ambition,” SAP Chief Financial
Officer Werner Brandt said in the statement.  Last week, SAP unveiled an overhauled version of its
flagship Business Suite software that runs on its Hana database,
cutting the time required for transactions and analysis to a
fraction. SAP aims to use the speed boost provided by its
technology to increase its share in the database market,
dominated by Oracle and International Business Machines Corp.  Sales of Hana totaled 390 million euros during the year,
exceeding the company’s target of at least 320 million euros.
SAP met its goal for revenue from mobile software, posting 222
million euros in sales in 2012. SAP’s cloud revenue jumped to
159 million euros in the fourth quarter.  Forecasts Aggressive  “SAP is clearly going for market share rather than margin
optimization,” said Knut Woller, an analyst at  Baader Bank AG (BWB) 
in Munich who recommends investors hold SAP shares. “That’s why
I think market expectations for the margin potential in 2013 are
too aggressive.”  Analysts project the company’s adjusted operating profit to
rise to 33.1 percent of revenue this year from 31.9 percent last
year, according to  estimates  compiled by Vara Research GmbH. SAP
targets a margin of 35 percent in 2015.  SAP and  Redwood City , California-based Oracle have acquired
companies that let clients rent software online rather than
installing it on their premises. SAP in 2012 completed the
acquisitions of SuccessFactors Inc. and Ariba Inc. to broaden
its product range.  Software Spending  Sales of new software licenses in the quarter climbed 9
percent to 1.94 billion euros, compared with analysts’ 1.95
billion-euro projection.  Operating profit excluding some items and currency swings
for the year reached 5.02 billion euros. The company had
predicted 5.05 billion euros to 5.25 billion euros.  Adjusted software and software-related revenue grew 13
percent at constant exchange rates in 2012, compared with the
upper end of a growth range of 10.5 percent to 12.5 percent that
SAP projected in October. The increase includes contributions
from SuccessFactors and Ariba.  Oracle last month reported quarterly sales and profit that
beat analysts’ estimates and projected revenue excluding some
items would rise in the three months ended February.  Spending on enterprise software may increase 6.4 percent to
$296 billion this year, faster than the 3.3 percent growth pace
recorded in 2012, Gartner Inc. said Jan. 3. The research firm
also raised its overall estimate of spending on  information
technology , saying that uncertainty regarding an upturn in the
world economy is “nearing resolution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  