-- Saratoga Seeks Consumer Deals With $480 Million War Chest
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-01-15T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/saratoga-seeks-consumer-deals-with-480-million-war-chest.html
The Indonesian private-equity firm
co-founded by tycoon Edwin Soeryadjaya plans to invest about
$480 million, mainly in consumer-related companies, ahead of a
planned initial public offering this year.  Saratoga Investama Sedaya, which owns shares in  PT Adaro
Energy (ADRO) , Indonesia’s second-biggest coal producer, expects to
agree next month to buy at least one consumer-related company,
Soeryadjaya said in an interview, declining to name the target.
Saratoga will team up with other investors as the deal may
exceed the fund’s $90 million cap for a single project, he said.  “I want to find a few more consumer-goods companies, in
that industry, in that space,” Soeryadjaya, 63, said in his
office in Jakarta on Jan. 14. “Hopefully by next month we have
one or two that we can announce.”  Soeryadjaya, who founded Saratoga with Sandiaga Uno in
1998, is counting on rising domestic consumption in  Southeast
Asia ’s biggest economy to boost returns as a slowdown in global
growth has weakened prices of commodities such as coal and  palm
oil . Private spending in the world’s fourth-most populous nation
accounts for about 63 percent of the economy, according to
government data.  Saratoga’s Asia Fund III manages about $600 million, of
which around $120 million has been invested, said Soeryadjaya.
Individual investments by the fund can’t exceed 15 percent of
its total assets, he said.  IPO Plan  Soeryadjaya is considering listing Saratoga through an IPO
this year, five people with knowledge of the matter said last
week. The deal may raise at least $200 million, and investment
banks presented proposals to manage the IPO last month in
Jakarta, said two of the people, asking not to be identified as
the information is private. Soeryadjaya declined to comment on
the IPO plan in the interview.  An IPO would make Saratoga the first private-equity firm
with shares traded in Jakarta, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
At $200 million it would be Indonesia’s biggest since PT MNC Sky
Vision’s $228 million sale in June last year, the data show.  Soeryadjaya expects rising demand for  air travel  to help
Saratoga expand  PT Mandala Airlines , the budget carrier in which
it owns a stake. Tiger Airways Ltd., which is partly owned by
 Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , the world’s third-most valuable
airline, also owns a 33 percent stake in Mandala.  “Indonesia is a very huge country, geographically and in
number of people and there is still a lot of growth in the
income level,” Soeryadjaya said. “It is very easy to assume
there is a lot of demand for travel.”  Indonesia’s economy grew 6.17 percent in the three months
ended Sept. 30 from a year earlier, holding above a 6 percent
pace for an eighth quarter.  Airspace Competition  Indonesian carriers are adding more aircraft in a region
where air travel is expected to grow more than 6.4 percent
annually through 2013, according to Boeing.  Mandala Airlines, which owns five Airbus SAS A320 planes,
competes against bigger rivals such as  PT Garuda Indonesia (GIAA)  and
PT Lion Mentari Airlines. Garuda’s budget carrier Citilink
ordered 25 Airbus SAS A320neo aircraft, worth $2.4 billion at
list prices, the planemaker said yesterday. Lion placed a record
order with  Boeing Co. (BA)  last year.  Soeryadjaya said that when Saratoga was planning to take
over Mandala he told his partners that he would only do it if
they could find the right partner.  “I don’t know anything about airlines,” he said. “Tiger
is not only Tiger. It is part of Singapore Airlines.”  Infrastructure Projects  Saratoga is also interested in opportunities to invest in
infrastructure projects and palm oil plantations, Soeryadjaya
said. It isn’t interested in acquiring another coal producer as
it already owns shares in Adaro, he said.  Faster economic growth is stretching the capacity of roads
and ports as the flow of goods increases in the world’s largest
archipelago.  Indonesia  has more than 17,000 islands, stretching
5,300 kilometers (3,300 miles) along the equator.  “There are a lot of government infrastructure projects,”
said Ferry Wong, head of Indonesian equity research at Citigroup
Inc. “Those would be good opportunities for them.”  Soeryadjaya said he expects to begin construction on a 115-
kilometer toll road project in the coming weeks after a six-year
delay because the “government failed to secure the land.” The
road will run between Cikampek and Palimanan east of Jakarta.  President Yudhoyono plans to spend about 1,786 trillion
rupiah ($181 billion) through 2025 on projects such as new
roads, bridges and ports. Construction and infrastructure
related stocks were among the biggest gainers on the Jakarta
Composite index last year. Shares of  PT Adhi Karya (ADHI) , a state-run
construction company, jumped 203 percent last year, compared
with a 13 percent gain in the benchmark  stock index .  Palm Oil  “We are still looking for opportunities in plantation, in
palm oil,” Soeryadjaya said. “When it is bad you want to buy,
because in the long-term I am confident that plantation is a
good bet. To me, it is always in demand, there is no substitute
yet for palm oil.”  Palm oil futures in  Kuala Lumpur  slumped 23 percent last
year as stockpiles expanded in  Malaysia  and in Indonesia, the
biggest producer, and economic slowdowns in Europe and  China 
curbed demand.  Other investments held by Saratoga include PT Tower Bersama
Infrastructure, which rents telecommunication towers to
Indonesia’s biggest mobile-phone operators such as PT
Telekomunikasi Selular and PT Indosat; and shares in PT Medco
Power, the electricity unit of Indonesia’s largest listed oil
company, PT Medco Energi Internasional.  “The mandate that I got from my investors is to invest,”
Soeryadjaya said. “So far we are on the right track and it is
the right formula to invest in Indonesia.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  