-- Saudi Arabia Will Set Up Power Buyer for Renewable Electricity
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2013-01-15T16:40:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/saudi-arabia-will-set-up-power-buyer-for-renewable-electricity.html
Saudi Arabia will form a company to
buy power from generators of  renewable energy  and to cover any
cost difference between the purchase and sale prices, according
to an official who has a hand in shaping the policy.  The world’s largest crude oil exporter will present a
national policy statement on renewable and nuclear power
generation this year as it seeks to diversify energy resources,
said Khalid Al Sulaiman, vice president at the King Abdullah
City for Atomic and Renewable Energy.  “There will be an offtaker and the offtaker will sell to a
distribution company,” Al Sulaiman told reporters at a
conference in  Abu Dhabi  today. “That offtaker will have to pay
the difference between the cost of the electricity and the price
the distributor pays.”  Saudi Arabia  plans to attract about $109 billion in solar
investments to generate a third of its electricity by 2032, or
about 41,000 megawatts. It currently has about 3 megawatts of
solar installations, trailing Egypt,  Morocco , Tunisia, Algeria
and the U.A.E., according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Ka-Care, as the organization is known, is charged with
reducing the country’s reliance on burning crude or fuel oil for
electricity generation. That would also benefit the environment
cutting  carbon emissions  while also saving oil for export, Al
Sulaiman said.  Saudi policy makers will also consider the value of cutting
emissions and the opportunity cost of burning valuable crude at
home, Al Sulaiman said. That would encourage officials to
“monetize” the benefits of renewable energy, he said.  Currently, the State-owned  Saudi Electricity Co. (SECO)  is the
country’s current electricity distributor, meaning it buys power
from generators and sells it residents. A so-called offtaker
would buy power from renewable generators before selling it to
the distributor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  