-- Sean Penn’s Efforts Shine in Haiti’s Slow Quake Recovery: Books
-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 2013-01-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/sean-penn-s-efforts-shine-in-haiti-s-slow-quake-recovery-books.html
The earthquake that slammed Haiti on
Jan. 12, 2010, raised billions of dollars for the perennial
poorest nation in the Western hemisphere.  Yet after three years, many celebrity sound bites,
countless aid officials and the clout of  Bill Clinton , it isn’t
easy to see how the survivors have benefited. Money it seems can
be as shifty as tectonic plates or Haitian presidents.  In “ Farewell, Fred Voodoo: A Letter From Haiti ,” Amy Wilentz tries to follow the money, check on friends and “put
Haiti back together again for myself.”  Fred Voodoo is an old reporter’s term for the Haitian man
in the street, and the valedictory applies not least of all
because streets are ill-defined in devastated Port-au-Prince and
many Freds disappeared with a death toll that has ranged -- more
shiftiness -- from 316,000 to 158,000 and as low as 46,000.  Wilentz has spent years writing about the beleaguered
Caribbean nation, starting with “ The Rainy Season ,” a young
journalist’s immersion in the country’s misery, violence and
verve.  It’s a remarkable book for the breadth of its coverage,
from the intricacies of voodoo to the pernicious effects of
deforestation, the unrelenting shadow of  Washington  and the
incessant threat and reality of violence. Wilentz arrived just
as Jean-Claude “Baby Doc” Duvalier was forced into exile in
1986 and Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the Catholic priest with images
of voodoo gods embroidered inside his chasuble, was emerging as
a political force.  Finding Aristide  She prides herself on discovering Aristide and witnessing
the laborious steps toward democracy of those years. Near the
book’s end, she seems to share a friend’s attitude: “faintly
disgusted, amused, finally optimistic.”  The new book moves through the post-quake ruins and tent
camps capturing loss, survival and frustration in shifting
pictures held together by Wilentz’s unsparing voice and a few
recurring threads. One is a doctor named  Megan Coffee , a
selflessly effective heroine in a jury-rigged tuberculosis ward.  Another is the self-serving visitations of celebrities of
any stripe, be they from medicine, politics or Hollywood.  One notable exception is  Sean Penn , whom she counts “among
the freest and most personally committed and involved of the
reconstruction outsiders who came to save Haiti.”  Building Schools  His group, Wilentz writes, has helped build schools and
“scores of buildings for earthquake refugees” and distributed
cholera treatments around the country, while his medical staff
“has treated more than a hundred thousand people.” Coffee
“credits Penn with finding an unfindable diphtheria antitoxin
for a patient of hers.”  As for the billions of dollars raised to help Haiti,
bureaucracy and dithering have slowed disbursement, as has the
persistent belief, especially in the U.S., that the country’s
government and people can’t be trusted enough to receive the
money directly.  Wilentz says the  Clinton Bush Haiti Fund  raised almost $49
million after the quake and still had $40 million at the end of
2010. A long  New York  Times  article  on Dec. 23 brought the total
aid accounting closer to the present without brightening the
picture.  A large portion of the money, Wilentz notes, went for
immediate relief, tent camps, clean water, medical work. It did
good that must be done yet built little that will last. Relief
isn’t reconstruction. Beyond that, Wilentz points to the horde
of “disaster professionals” who must be fed and housed, and
not in tents.  Living Well  “I know many aid people who say right up front that if
they lived in their home countries they would never live as well
as they do in disaster areas,” she writes.  Wilentz can be strident in criticizing other journalists
and commentators, in fact anyone who victimizes, underestimates,
patronizes or belittles Haitians. It’s often difficult to
disagree, given her knowledge and commitment.  She shares her amazement and anger that both Baby Doc and
Aristide somehow managed to return from exile, while she
suspects that with recent reports suggesting that “possibly
hundreds of millions of ounces of gold” could lie under its
soil, “ Haiti  may find itself caught up in a new kind of global
net of exploitation and destruction.”  The telling difference here from “The Rainy Season” may
be that she’s only faintly optimistic. “Farewell, Fred Voodoo”
is rich in people, incidents and insights that convey the
quake’s long awful aftermath, and unavoidably rough with the
pain and frustration of someone writing “A Letter From Haiti”
to a world that can’t seem to help even if it takes the time to
read.  “Farewell, Fred Voodoo: A Letter From Haiti” is published
by  Simon & Schuster  (329 pages, $27). To order this book in
 North America , click  here .  Muse highlights include Patrick Cole’s  philanthropy 
forecast for 2013.  (Jeffrey Burke is an editor with Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in New York at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 