-- SEC Rejects Nasdaq Plan to Offer Clients Trading Algorithms
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2013-01-15T01:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/sec-rejects-nasdaq-plan-to-offer-clients-trading-algorithms-1-.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission rejected  Nasdaq  Stock Market’s request to offer
clients trading algorithms that would enable them to execute buy
and sell orders according to predetermined guidelines.  Nasdaq failed to specify in its proposal how it would
ensure that orders generated under its plan would comply with
rules requiring risk checks on buy and sell requests before they
are sent to markets, the SEC said in a Jan. 11  notice . It also
didn’t respond to criticism by the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association that the offering would compete
unfairly with algorithms supplied by brokers, the SEC said.  “It’s a surprise,” Bruce Weber, dean of the Alfred Lerner
College of Business and Economics at the University of  Delaware ,
said by phone. “There’s nothing particularly new or innovative
about the offering except that it’s coming from an exchange
rather than a broker-dealer. I think the SEC is very gun-shy
about approving rules that could potentially lead to anything
that could have a destabilizing influence on the market.”  Algorithms for trading are a brokerage tool used to execute
client orders. Nasdaq’s proposal to offer them follows 20 years
in which the line between exchanges and their members has faded.
The blurring began when brokers, frustrated by the speed at
which equity markets ran in the 1990s, set up their own venues.
More recently exchanges have added technology offerings tailored
to brokers such as systems to route buy and sell requests to
other venues and a growing selection of order types to negotiate
automated markets.  Benchmark Orders  Most algorithms are designed to buy or sell stock within
parameters that ensure their users get the price they want while
allowing them to fine-tune executions based on variables such as
volume, volatility and how urgently they want to trade. Nasdaq
asked the SEC for permission in May to provide benchmark orders
that seek transactions aimed at achieving a stock’s volume-
weighted average price, time-weighted average price or
percentage of volume traded over a specific period, similar to
services offered by brokers.  A decade ago, algorithms were “quite innovative, but now
there are a number that are quite routine,”  Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. (NDAQ)  Chief Executive Officer Robert Greifeld said on a July 25
conference call. “We filed to be able to do some of these
routine algos.”  Risk Checks  In delaying action on the proposal in August, the SEC said
Nasdaq hadn’t made clear how pre-trade risk and capital checks
would be conducted on parts of its algorithms known as child
orders, which are pieces of the larger buy or sell request that
is submitted for execution. The SEC approved a regulation known
as the market-access rule in 2010 mandating risk checks on any
order sent for execution.  In addition, Nasdaq didn’t respond to concerns raised by
Sifma, the broker-dealer trade group, that allowing Nasdaq to
offer algorithms would place “undue burden” on competitors
given rules that limit exchanges’ legal liabilities, the SEC
wrote in the rejection notice. Nasdaq’s assertion that its rule
proposal is consistent with the securities laws isn’t
sufficient, the SEC said.  Sifma criticized Nasdaq’s proposal in October, telling the
SEC that the offering would create “regulatory disparities”
with algorithms provided by brokers, according to a  letter  by
Theodore R. Lazo, associate general counsel at Sifma. The orders
generated through Nasdaq’s plan wouldn’t be subject to risk
filters required by the market-access rule that went into effect
in 2011, he said.  Sifma Criticism  “Sifma questions whether it is appropriate for Nasdaq, as
a national securities exchange, to offer the proposed benchmark
order functionality,” Lazo, who previously was general counsel
at NYSE Regulation, a unit of New York-based exchange operator
NYSE Euronext, wrote in the letter. “The commission should
disapprove the proposal unless Nasdaq explains how its proposed
benchmark order functionality would make markets more
transparent and efficient, and how the proposal would not be at
the expense of Nasdaq’s other functions.”  Sifma also challenged Nasdaq’s plan by saying it sought to
offer a commercial service that would benefit from the
exchange’s limitation on financial liability. Exchanges are SEC-
registered self-regulatory organizations immune from civil
lawsuits for activities conducted as part of their regulatory
duties. Brokers don’t have that privilege, Sifma said.  Algorithm Competition  “I view this as part of the natural evolution of exchange
functionality,” James Angel, a finance professor at Georgetown
University in  Washington  and a member of the board of exchange
operator Direct Edge Holdings LLC, said by phone. “I can see
why Sifma’s members aren’t so happy. Many of their firms offer
competing algorithms. But why shouldn’t an exchange be able to
offer what competitors are offering?”  The concern that Nasdaq’s algorithmic products could gain
an advantage unavailable to brokers because of the exchange’s
immunity is a “legitimate” complaint, Angel said.  Exchanges and brokers already compete in trading businesses
such as routing and execution, an industry development that the
SEC recognized in the late 1990s, Nasdaq said in a Dec. 17
letter by Deputy General Counsel Jeffrey S. Davis.  Nasdaq told the SEC in the letter that its benchmark orders
were similar to existing order types it offers users and that
differences shouldn’t impede approval. The exchange provided a
list of risk checks it would conduct on benchmark orders
submitted to its own venue or other platforms to ensure
compliance with the market-access rule and avoid disorderly
trading, according to the letter.  Order Types  Orders submitted by the benchmark strategies it planned to
offer would be treated the same way as those sent by other
brokers, Nasdaq told the SEC. It also said the external provider
of the application that managed the algorithms wouldn’t receive
preferential treatment by Nasdaq.  Dan Mathisson , head of U.S. equity trading at Credit Suisse
Group AG, told a Senate banking subcommittee last month that
exchanges shouldn’t offer complicated order types, in part
because it’s a service brokers normally provide and the
financial costs of errant trading will be borne by the
securities firms employing them, not exchanges.  Blurry Line  “The line between algorithms that broker-dealers do and
the line between order types that exchanges offer is blurry and
there are a lot of similarities between the two but I think that
the broker-dealer is the right place to have that complexity,”
Mathisson said. “The broker-dealer is a fiduciary to the
client, the broker-dealer has an error account and the broker-
dealer has liability. And complex orders are more likely to fail
than simple matches.”  Eric Noll , executive vice president for transaction
services at Nasdaq OMX, told senators at the hearings that order
types are approved by the SEC and allow “what used to be done
manually to be done electronically with technology.”  “They need to be applied fairly, they need to be made
available to everyone and they have to be used so they’re not
favoring one type of party over another in an unfair way,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 