-- Serbia Seeks $3 Billion in Financing Abroad, Dinkic Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-01-15T11:18:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/serbia-seeks-3-billion-in-financing-abroad-dinkic-says.html
Serbia will seek as much as $3
billion in funds abroad in 2013 to finance its debt and doesn’t
need international aid, Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic said.  “This year we should borrow from international markets $3
billion, $2 billion in Eurobonds and $1 billion from  Russia ,”
he told a panel at a Euromoney conference in Vienna today.
“We’re diversifying our sources” of financing and the sale of
$1 billion in seven-year bonds should be “very soon,” he said.  The country sold $750 million in five-year notes with a
5.25 percent coupon on Nov. 14. Demand was $3.7 billion, which
the Finance Ministry said allowed it to increase the size of the
sale from $500 million. The yield at the sale, Serbia’s second
foreign offering in 2012, was 5.45 percent.  Prime Minister Ivica Dacic’s Cabinet, in office since July
27, has pledged to bring down the widest deficit since the 2000
ouster of former strongman Slobodan Milosevic. The 2013 state
budget targets a deficit of 3.6 percent of gross domestic
product, from 6.7 percent last year.  Serbia  will need 493.6 billion dinars ($5.9 billion) next
year to service all its debt, 25 percent more than in 2012. The
government has said it will rely on dinar- and euro-denominated
debt sales at home and dollar-denominated Eurobonds abroad until
Serbia’s BB- credit rating at Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings is upgraded.  Cheap Financing  “Financing externally is so cheap at the moment that any
sovereign worth its salt/rating probably should be coming to
market to get some cash in the bank, and the earlier and cheaper
the better,” Tim Ash, chief emerging-markets strategist at
Standard Bank in  London , said by e-mail.  Dacic has yet to convince the International Monetary Fund
that Serbia is able to adhere to the budgeted fiscal goals and
is scheduled to meet the lender next spring for a second round
of talks on a loan program. Serbia wants a credit to bolster
investor confidence and doesn’t plan on drawing the funds,
Dinkic said.  Serbia wants to tap a loan from Russia at the start of the
second quarter and is in talks wth VTB, Russian’s second-
largest lender, on selling a $250 million ruble bond, Dinkic
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  