-- Serbia Seeks Eurobond Sale With or Without New IMF Deal
-- B y   A l a n   C r o s b y ,   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-01-16T09:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/serbia-seeks-eurobond-sale-with-or-without-new-imf-deal.html
Serbia  is seeking to sell foreign-
currency bonds as soon as next month regardless of whether it
agrees to a new deal with the  International Monetary Fund 
beforehand, Finance Minister  Mladjan Dinkic  said.  The Balkan country last sold $750 million in five-year
notes two-months ago. Yields on the bonds fell eight basis
points, or 0.08 percentage point, 3.94 percent at 10:16 a.m. in
Belgrade, from as high as 5.1 percent Nov. 16, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The government plans to raise $2 billion
from Eurobond sales and $1 billion from Russian loans this year
to help finance debt, Dinkic said in Vienna yesterday.  Junk-rated Serbia is following  Hungary , which this week
moved closer to selling foreign-currency bonds for the first
time in 20 months, even as its IMF talks remained deadlocked.
Bond buying by central banks in the U.S. and the euro region has
stoked appetite for riskier assets in past months, driving down
borrowing costs for  emerging markets .  The debt sale and the IMF deal are “different issues” and
“the government is ready to go with the bond regardless,”
Dinkic said in an interview. Serbia will sell foreign notes
“soon, maybe as early as next month. Demand is high right now
and the market conditions are right. We are ready to move
quickly,” he said.  Serbia is seeking a new IMF loan deal to shore up
confidence that government policies will bolster macroeconomic
stability after the fiscal deficit hit a record 7.2 percent of
gross domestic product in June. The government has repeatedly
said it won’t seek IMF cash, only a stand-by loan program.  ‘Precautionary Arrangement’  “We will talk with the IMF about a precautionary
arrangement, without borrowing, because we can finance ourselves
from the market,” Dinkic said while attending the Euromoney
conference in the Austrian capital yesterday.  Serbia will need 493.6 billion dinars ($5.9 billion) this
year to service its debt, 25 percent more than in 2012. The
government said it will rely on dinar- and euro-denominated debt
sales at home and dollar-denominated Eurobonds until Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings upgrade Serbia’s BB- credit rating, the
third-highest non-investment grade.  “Financing externally is so cheap at the moment that any
sovereign worth its salt or rating probably should be coming to
market to get some cash in the bank, and the earlier and cheaper
the better,” Tim Ash, chief emerging-markets strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd. in  London , said by e-mail yesterday.
“The problem is that the IMF has little or no leverage.”  ‘Worrying Exception’  An IMF mission will probably come to Serbia “in the next
few weeks,” Bogdan Lissovolik, the resident representative for
the Washington-based lender, said in Belgrade yesterday. The
mission has yet to look at budget performance in 2012 and for
2013. The government aims to narrow the fiscal gap to 3.6
percent of GDP this year, from an estimated 6.7 percent in 2012.  Serbia is becoming a “worrying exception” in the region,
according to Lissovolik, because of its ballooning public debt,
which doubled to 17.5 billion euros ($23.4 billion) on Nov. 30
from 8.7 billion euros in 2008, Finance Ministry data show.  Serbia will seek a loan from  Russia ’s government in the
second quarter and is in talks with  VTB Bank OJSC (VTBR) , Russian’s
second-largest lender, about selling ruble bonds worth $250
million, Finance Minister Dinkic said yesterday.  The government is also interested in loans from  China ,
 Turkey  and the  United Arab Emirates , countries where economic
growth is faster than in the European Union, Dinkic’s press
office cited him as saying after a meeting with the European
Bank for Reconstruction and Development yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Crosby in Prague at 
 acrosby1@bloomberg.net ;
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  