-- Shirakawa Says Economy to Remain Weak as BOJ Prepares to Meet
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2013-01-15T01:57:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/shirakawa-says-economy-to-remain-weak-as-boj-prepares-to-meet.html
Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said that the nation’s economy remains weak as the
central bank prepares to decide whether to add to stimulus for
the fourth time in five months.  “Exports and production are decreasing as the global
slowdown continues,” Shirakawa said at a gathering of BOJ
branch managers in  Tokyo  today, adding that the bank will pursue
“powerful monetary easing.”  At its meeting on Jan. 21-22, the BOJ will adopt a 2
percent inflation target advocated by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe,
doubling its existing goal of 1 percent, according to people
familiar with officials’ discussions. The yen has fallen around
10 percent against the dollar in the last two months as Abe
urged aggressive easing to end deflation and boost growth.  The currency was 0.2 percent lower at 89.62 per dollar as
of 10:10 a.m. in Tokyo.  At its last meeting in December, the BOJ increased its
asset-purchase fund to 76 trillion yen ($848 billion) from 66
trillion yen.  Japan’s top currency official, Takehiko Nakao, said in  Hong
Kong  yesterday that his nation isn’t engaged in “competitive”
devaluation.  Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said yesterday that
his country may need to take action to mitigate the impact of a
weakening yen on South Korean exports.  “If volatility increases driven by speculative motivation,
authorities should act to normalize the market,” Kim told
reporters at a briefing in  Seoul .  In the U.S., Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President
 James Bullard  said Jan. 10 that he’s “a little disturbed” by
Japan’s currency stance and the risk of “beggar-thy-neighbor”
policies.  Japan posted a larger-than-expected current account deficit
in November, data showed last week. Big manufacturers are the
most pessimistic in almost three years, even as a sliding yen
aids exporters from Toyota Motor Corp. to  Panasonic Corp. (6752)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  