-- Singapore’s Record Home Sales in 2012 Drive Government Measures
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-01-15T05:19:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/singapore-s-record-home-sales-in-2012-drive-government-measures.html
Singapore  home sales rose to a
record last year, fueling prices to an all-time high and
prompting the government to introduce cooling measures last week.  Home sales climbed to 1,410 units in December from 1,087
units in November, according to data released by the Urban
Redevelopment Authority today. Home sales reached 22,699 units
in 2012, according to calculation by Bloomberg News based on the
government data, which dates back to 1996.  Singapore  home prices  reached a record high in the fourth
quarter amid low interest rates, raising concerns of a housing
bubble and prompting the government to introduce its seventh
round of cooling measures on Jan. 11.  “Sales volumes are likely to dampen in the coming
months,” Png Poh Soon, director of valuation and head of
consultancy and research at Knight Frank Pte in Singapore, said
in a note today. “Whilst pent-up home buying demand is strong,
the higher stamp duties, tighter loan-to-value limits and higher
cash down payment would deter home buyers, who do not have the
cash resources for their planned purchases.”  Knight Frank cut its estimates for new home sales for 2013
by 20 percent and expects sales to range between 12,000 and
14,000 units this year.  The latest measures include an increase in the stamp duty
for homebuyers by between 5 percentage points and 7 percentage
points, with permanent residents paying taxes when they buy
their first home. Singaporeans will also have the levy starting
with their second purchase.  More Measures  The government will also tighten the loan-to-value limits
for buyers seeking a second mortgage, referring to the amount
they are allowed to borrow relative to the value of their
properties. The cash down payment will also rise to 25 percent
from 10 percent starting from the second loan, it said.  Singapore has been attempting to rein in prices since 2009,
when the government barred interest-only loans for some housing
projects and stopped allowing developers to absorb interest
payments for apartments still being built.  Earlier steps taken by Singapore to ease the property
market included imposing additional taxes on foreigners and
companies buying properties, and moving to curb the trend of so-
called shoebox apartments. In October, it restricted home-loan
maturities to 35 years and required tighter loan-to-value limits
for loans exceeding 30 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  