-- U.K. Stocks Little Changed Amid U.S. Debt-Ceiling Concern
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-01-15T14:46:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/u-k-stocks-little-changed-amid-u-s-debt-ceiling-concern.html
  U.K. stocks  were little changed
amid concern that U.S. lawmakers will fail to increase the
federal government’s debt ceiling.  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  rallied 2.8 percent as platinum climbed.
 Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  rose 4.1 percent after reporting better-than-
forecast third-quarter sales.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) 
fell 2.4 percent after people familiar with the situation said
the lender may pay 500 million pounds ($803 million) in fines.  The FTSE 100 lost 3.87 points, or 0.1 percent, to 6,103.99
at 2:44 p.m. in  London , paring a slide of as much as 0.4
percent. The equity benchmark rose to its highest level since
May 2008 last week amid optimism that U.S. companies’ earnings
would exceed analysts’ estimates. The broader FTSE All-Share
Index slipped less than 0.1 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ
Index fell 0.3 percent.  The volume of shares changing hands in  FTSE 100 (UKX)  companies
was 34 percent greater than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There seems to be some intolerance from both parties in
the U.S., and investors are mainly waiting for a sign of a
resolution regarding spending cuts, which is essentially the
biggest part of a budget deal,” said Paulo Goncalves, who helps
manage about $233 million at Banco Popular Portugal SA in
Lisbon. “This has been bothering markets a little lately, and
is back today after Obama’s comments last night.”  President  Barack Obama  said yesterday that he won’t
negotiate over raising the government’s debt ceiling because the
U.S. has to pay for spending it has authorized. The president
warned of economic calamity and stalled payments to Social
Security recipients, military personnel and government creditors
if congressional Republicans fail to lift the $16.4 trillion
 debt limit . Congress has raised or revised the debt limit 79
times since 1960, according to the Treasury Department.  Unorthodox Easing  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said that the
central bank’s $85 billion in monthly purchases of bonds
bolsters the economy.  “We think we are getting some effect; it is kind of
early,” Bernanke said yesterday at the  University of Michigan ’s
Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy in  Ann Arbor . “We are
going to continue to assess how effective” the program is
“because it is possible that as you move through time and the
situation changes that the impact of these tools could vary.”  Lonmin, which runs the Marikana platinum mine in South
 Africa , jumped 2.8 percent to 342 pence after Anglo American
Platinum Ltd. said it would cut output by as much as 19 percent.
The world’s biggest platinum producer, which is also known as
Amplats, will idle four mine shafts in  South Africa , effectively
reducing global output of the metal by almost 7 percent.  Platinum Producers  Platinum climbed 1.9 percent, rising to its highest price
in three months.  Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP) , which also extracts
platinum from facilities in Africa, surged 9.2 percent to 71
pence, its biggest gain in a week.  Burberry rose 4.1 percent to 1,379 pence, the biggest gain
on the FTSE 100 Index, as demand for higher-priced styles
increased sales in its own shops. Revenue jumped 7 percent to
613 million pounds, the U.K.’s largest luxury-goods company
said. That exceeded the 601.4 million-pound average of analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Ocado Group Plc (OCDO)  climbed 2.8 percent to 86.5 pence. The
online grocer said its fourth-quarter gross sales gained 12
percent and Christmas sales increased 14 percent.  RBS Slips  RBS dropped 2.4 percent to 355.9 pence, halting a seven-day
rally, after people with knowledge of the matter said the lender
may pay fines to settle allegations that traders tried to rig
interest rates. Investment banking chief John Hourican and
markets head Peter Nielsen may have to leave, two people said.  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  fell 3.8 percent to 839.5 pence, its
biggest drop in more than three months. Morgan Stanley lowered
its rating on the designer of chips for Apple Inc.’s iPhones to
equal weight from overweight, meaning that investors should not
buy more of the shares. The brokerage cited its valuation.  IG Group Holdings Plc slipped 1.8 percent to 459.2 pence.
The owner of the IG spread-betting business said first-half net
trading revenue decreased 14 percent to 169 million pounds and
pretax profit slid 21 percent to 81.1 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  