-- U.K. Inflation Stays Above BOE Goal
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-01-15T10:05:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/u-k-inflation-stays-at-2-7-as-utilities-add-to-price-pressure.html
U.K.  inflation  held at the highest
rate since May last month as increases in gas and electricity
bills helped to keep consumer-price growth above the  Bank of
England ’s target.  Consumer prices rose 2.7 percent from a year earlier, the
same as in November and October, the  Office for National
Statistics  said today in London. That matched the median
estimate of 36 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Housing
and utility costs added 0.26 percentage points to inflation.
From the previous month, prices rose 0.5 percent.  Britain’s economy is struggling to recover after emerging
from a double-dip recession in the third quarter. Still, with
inflation above the Bank of England’s 2 percent goal, that may
leave some of the Monetary Policy Committee reluctant to support
more stimulus to help bolster growth.  “Inflation could pick up a bit further in the near-term,
quite possibly reaching 3 percent,” said  Vicky Redwood , an
economist at  Capital Economics  in London. “It will probably
stay relatively high for most of this year, prompting
households’ real pay to fall again in 2013. But we continue to
expect inflation to fall back below its target towards the end
of the year.”  The pound pared gains against the dollar after the report
and was trading at $1.6087 as of 9:56 a.m. in London, up 0.1
percent on the day. The yield on the benchmark 10-year U.K.
government bond was little changed at 2.04 percent.  Transport Costs  The statistics office said that clothes prices also had an
upward effect on inflation last month. The largest downward
impact came from transport costs, predominantly air fares and
gasoline, which subtracted 0.23 percentage points from the rate.  Core inflation , which excludes alcohol, food, tobacco and
energy prices, slowed to 2.4 percent in December, the least in
three months, from 2.6 percent in November. Retail-price
inflation, a measure used in wage negotiations, accelerated to
3.1 percent from 3 percent. The retail-price index excluding
mortgage-interest payments rose an annual 3 percent.  The Bank of England has forecast that inflation will cool
gradually this year, easing the squeeze on consumers. Still,
there has been upward pressure in recent months from price
increases by Britain’s biggest utility companies, including SSE
Plc and  Centrica Plc (CNA) , the owner of British Gas.  Funding Program  BOE policy makers held their  target  for bond purchases at
375 billion pounds ($603 billion) last week as they assessed the
impact of their credit-boosting Funding for Lending Scheme. The
central bank will publish new forecasts for growth and inflation
next month that will inform the MPC’s February decision.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  said yesterday that it expects inflation
to average 2.7 percent this year. It also sees no more bond
purchases by the MPC.  “More money creation now risks further distorting
financial markets and the economy for little real gain,” said
Simon Wells, chief U.K. economist at HSBC in London. “And
another year of above-target inflation will strengthen the
widely-held view that the MPC has abandoned its inflation
target. The hurdle for more monetary easing should be high.”  Also today, the statistics office said U.K.  house prices 
rose 2.1 percent in November from a year earlier, up from a 1.5
percent annual gain in October. The  Royal Institution  of
Chartered Surveyors said in a report today that real-estate
agents have become more optimistic about the  property market  and
that its house-price gauge rose to a 2 1/2-year high in
December.  Output Prices  Separate ONS data showed U.K. factory output prices fell
0.1 percent in December from November, led by a drop in
petroleum products. The median forecast of 18 economists in a
Bloomberg survey was for no change. From a year earlier,
factory-gate price inflation accelerated to 2.2 percent from 2.1
percent.  Core producer prices, which exclude costs of food, alcohol,
tobacco and petroleum, were unchanged on the month and rose 1.5
percent from a year earlier.  Input costs  fell 0.2 percent in December from November and
increased 0.3 percent on the year. The biggest downward impact
on the monthly and annual change was from crude oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  