-- U.K. Home-Price Index Rises to 30-Month High as Outlook Improves
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-01-15T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/u-k-home-price-index-rises-to-30-month-high-as-outlook-improves.html
An index of U.K. house prices rose
to the highest in 2 1/2 years last month as measures to boost
credit lifted optimism at real-estate agents about the outlook,
the  Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors said.  The price gauge advanced to zero from minus 9 in November,
London-based RICS said in an e-mailed report today, citing a
monthly poll of property surveyors. Its the first time since
June 2010 that the measure hasn’t been below zero. A gauge of
sales expectations for the next three months also rose.  The  Bank of England  started its Funding for Lending Scheme
in August and reported earlier this month that credit conditions
have eased. RICS said there has been a “notable increase” in
new buyer inquiries in recent months and the housing market in
some areas “may have started to bottom out.”  “As we start the new year, confidence to the housing
market does appear to be improving, helped in part by the impact
of the FLS,” RICS director Peter Bolton King said. “It may be
that we are now over the very worst.”  The measure of home-price expectations for the next three
months climbed to 1 in December from minus 5 in November, the
first time it’s been above zero since May 2010. RICS predicts
residential property values will increase 2 percent this year.
The three-month sales-expectations index jumped to 24 from 13.  London ’s housing market is outperforming the rest of the
U.K. and in recent months has seen a “marked pick up” in price
momentum, activity and expectations, according to RICS. The only
other British region where surveyors are reporting more price
rises than declines is south east  England , while  Scotland  and
 Northern Ireland  show more decreases, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  