-- U.K.’s Davey Plans to Detail Power Prices in December
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-01-15T17:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/u-k-s-davey-plans-to-detail-power-prices-in-december.html
The U.K. plans to set prices for
low-carbon power production in December in a bid to lure
investment in new plants as older generators shut down.  Network operator  National Grid Plc (NG/)  is consulting on the so-
called strike prices and is due to publish a draft in June or
July, Energy and Climate Change Secretary  Ed Davey  said today in
 London . Final tariffs are due by year-end, he told lawmakers
scrutinizing an energy bill he submitted to parliament in 2012.  The prices are crucial to ensuring investors commit to the
110 billion pounds ($178 billion) of spending that the
government says is needed to replace aging power stations and
upgrade the electricity grid by 2020. They’ll be written into
 contracts for difference , agreements guaranteeing set payments
for power generators regardless of market fluctuations.  “If we start to see draft strike prices in June, that
gives us confidence we’re moving in the right direction,”  Keith Anderson , chief executive officer of  Iberdrola SA (IBE) ’s Scottish
Power Renewables unit, told the committee after Davey’s address.
Representatives of utilities  Centrica Plc (CNA) , EON SE and National
Grid were also present.  Back-Up Power  The government plans to pass the energy bill by the end of
the year. Aside from contracts for difference, the legislation
would establish an emissions performance standard limiting
carbon output from  power plants , and a so-called capacity
market, which pays producers for providing back-up electricity
when demand peaks and clean-energy generation falls short.  The bill has already sparked debate over its lack of a
binding target to cap  carbon emissions  from the power industry
by 2030. The inclusion of a so-called decarbonization target
would help reduce political risk associated with long-term U.K.
industrial investment, according to a letter to Davey from
 Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Areva SA (AREVA)  and other companies in October.  Davey, a member of the Liberal Democrats, the junior
partner in the coalition government, had supported the measure
and faced opposition from Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , a Conservative.  “Different parties have different views and in a coalition
government you debate those views and you come to a
conclusion,” Davey said today. The bill now provides for a
decarbonization target to be set in 2016.  Reasonable Compromise  “The proposal that has been put forward is a reasonable
compromise,” Sara Vaughan, head of strategy and regulation at
power producer EON U.K., told the committee. “Whilst we have
not been arguing for a specific decarbonization target, neither
would we actually oppose it.”  Centrica agreed with Vaughan’s verdict, saying that it
would work with a target if one were set. Scottish Power’s
Anderson said he wouldn’t mind if a target were included in the
bill as long as it’s “fully costed.”  “It’s much more important to get on with getting the
framework in this bill right,” Anderson said. “If a 2030
decarbonization target were submitted, we would work with it.
But it’s not a priority.”  In later sessions, representatives from Dong Energy A/S,
Ecotricity Group Ltd. and  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  all said they
wanted to see a decarbonization target in the bill.  “It would give greater certainty to the supply chain,”
said Danielle Lane, Dong’s head of regulatory affairs. “It’s
nice to have signposts along the way,” she said, referring to
U.K. targets to get 15 percent of energy from renewables by 2020
and to cut emissions 80 percent by 2050 from 1990.  At parliament’s first major debate on the draft law last
month, the opposition Labour and Green parties tried and failed
to stall it until a 2030 carbon target could be introduced.  Tim Yeo , a lawmaker with the ruling Conservatives who leads
parliament’s Energy and Climate Change Committee, has said he’ll
attempt to amend the bill to include a decarbonization target at
a later date.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  