-- U.S. Sees Stakes as the French Do the Fighting in Mali
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-01-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/u-s-sees-stakes-as-the-french-do-the-fighting-in-mali.html
The U.S. is leaving France to battle
militant Islamists in  Mali , providing “limited” military
support even as officials warn that al-Qaeda advances there
endanger American interests.  Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said yesterday that the U.S.
is providing intelligence to French forces, and is considering
“some limited logistical support” such as airlift.  While the U.S., which is speeding its withdrawal from
combat in  Afghanistan  and has steered clear of the fighting in
 Syria , doesn’t plan to commit troops to the conflict in Mali,
Panetta said it has a “responsibility” to prevent al-Qaeda
from establishing a base there from which it could threaten the
U.S. and Europe.  “We have a responsibility to make sure that al-Qaeda does
not establish a base for operations in North Africa and Mali,”
Panetta told reporters as he flew to  Europe  for a week of
meetings.  Referring to al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, one of the
main Islamist groups in the region, he said: “While they might
not have any immediate plans for attacks in the United States
and in Europe, that ultimately, that still remains their
objective, and it’s for that reason that we have to take steps
now to ensure that AQIM does not get that kind of traction.”  If the French fall short, the militants “will continue to
train, continue to arm, they’re on the back door of Europe and
will continue to destabilize the region,” said Rudy Atallah, a
senior fellow at the Atlantic Council, a  Washington  policy
group, in a telephone interview. ‘It’s like a cancer that
continues to grow.’’  Avoiding Involvement  U.S. officials “do not want to get involved in this,”
said Jennifer Cooke, director of the Africa program at the
Center for Strategic and International Studies, a Washington
policy group. Still, she said in an interview, American military
officials worry about the brew of militant groups in Mali and
beyond, such as in Nigeria and Somalia.  “The fear that is driving U.S. military thinkers on this
is the idea that they may link up and create this grand alliance
of criminal and terrorist networks,” Cooke said.  Mali’s crisis could add to an “arc of instability” from
western  Africa  to the Gulf of Aden, the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees, Antonio Guterres, has warned.  “Mali is a critical flash point,” said Rick “Ozzie” Nelson, a former U.S. counterterrorism official who now teaches
at Georgetown University. “If Mali goes south, that’s a threat
to the entire region.”  Increasing Concern  What had been a fairly obscure insurgency has drawn
increasing international concern as Islamic radicals and other
militants have strengthened their hold over much of northern
Mali, and the country has been weakened by military defections
and a coup that toppled the democratic leader.  The French military attacks are an abrupt shift after
months of slow-moving diplomatic efforts, backed by the U.S., to
have African troops intervene under United Nations auspices.  The U.S. should welcome  France ’s initiative, Nelson said.  “This is a very healthy evolution for international
terrorism cooperation,” he said in a telephone interview.
“France is doing something we’ve always wanted them to do,
which is to take the lead on a counterterrorism operation.”  In remarks in December, General Carter Ham, head of the
U.S. military command in Africa, said the U.S. didn’t anticipate
providing U.S. combat troops to fight Mali insurgents.  African Troops  “I don’t see us in a situation where we would be asked for
U.S. participation in any actual combat operation,” Ham said.
“I think that would be counterproductive, actually, and in my
view that should be and must be African-led.”  The Economic Community of West African States will meet
tomorrow to discuss the deployment of about 2,000 Ecowas
soldiers to Mali, a plan backed in a UN Security Council
resolution last month to restore state control over the north.  The intervention was being set for September, though there
is now pressure for earlier deployment. The U.S. will be
providing military trainers to help ready some African troops,
State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said yesterday.  France’s 550-strong force entered its fourth day of
fighting yesterday in response to last week’s offensive by
militants based in the north. President Francois Hollande said
France would support Mali’s battle to win back two-thirds of its
territory as a militant spokesman vowed retaliation, saying
France had opened the “gates of hell.”  Militant Groups  Mali’s militant groups include AQIM, Ansar Dine, and the
United Movement for Jihad in West Africa, or MUJAO.  The NATO Allied Command’s Civil-Military Fusion Center
released a study in December pointing to links between these
groups and others in the region, such as Somalia’s al Shabaab or
Nigeria’s Boko Haram, which seeks to establish sharia law in the
oil-rich nation and is attacking the government and Christians
with increasing reach and lethality.  Ham said in December that there were “clear indications”
of increasing “collaboration and synchronization among the
various violent extremist organizations” in Mali.  Human Rights Watch says Ansar Dine, MUJAO and AQIM “appear
to be closely coordinating.” The NATO study notes that
commanders and fighters of MUJAO and Ansar have come from the
ranks of AQIM.  Instability threatens companies involved in developing
Mali’s minerals sector and the oil and gas resources in nearby
countries such as Nigeria,  Algeria ,  Ghana  and Libya.  Drone Bases  Before the military coup in March, the U.S. provided
military training for Mali troops in an effort to thwart Islamic
militants. That program has ended.  The U.S. confirmed in late 2011 that it was establishing
secret drone bases in the region as part of a newly aggressive
campaign against al-Qaeda. According to the Washington Post, the
Obama administration is now considering whether to use them to
strike AQIM in Mali.  If the U.S. conducts drone strikes in Mali, it probably
wouldn’t be controversial in the U.S., said Bruce Hoffman, who
is director of the Center for Security Studies at Georgetown
University in Washington.  “It’s boots on the ground that generates controversy,” he
said.  Still, air power “can only go so far in these types of
conflicts,” Hoffman said. “It’s still about winning over the
local population and providing them security against terrorist
retribution. That’s a French and Malian responsibility, not
ours.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  