-- U.S. in Talks on Global Services Trade Sought by JPMorgan
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-01-15T19:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/u-s-in-talks-on-global-services-trade-sought-by-jpmorgan.html
The U.S. will participate in global
talks to lower barriers on trade of financial services and
telecommunications, a step toward a deal sought by companies
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  AT&T Inc. (T)   Negotiations will include 20 trading partners, including
the European Union, at the World Trade Organization in Geneva,
U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  said today in a letter to
congressional leaders.  “Every $1 billion in U.S. services exports supports an
estimated 4,200 U.S. jobs in America,” Kirk wrote to House
Speaker John Boehner and Senate President Pro Tempore Patrick Leahy. The negotiations will begin within 90 days, Kirk said.  Services such as express package delivery, insurance,
telecommunications and electronic payments are becoming a
growing part of global trade, estimated by the WTO at about $8
trillion in 2011. U.S. exports of private services were worth
about $600 billion in 2011, according to Kirk’s office. The U.S.
had a $178.5 billion surplus in services trade that year.  The nations working toward an agreement represent about 70
percent of the world’s trade in services, according to the
Coalition of Service Industries, a Washington-based group whose
members include JPMorgan, AT&T,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and
 Aflac Inc. (AFL)   Economic Engine  “We are pleased that the United States is ready to fight
for new trade rules to enable the services sector to achieve its
potential as the engine of our economy,” Peter Allgeier, a
former U.S. ambassador to the WTO and president of the services
group, said today in a statement.  Industry groups including the Washington-based U.S. Chamber
of Commerce and the Business Roundtable, whose members include
the heads of companies including  Bank of America Corp .,  Visa
Inc. (V)  and Verizon Communications Inc., cheered the announcement.  “This is a chance to tackle emerging trade barriers in
areas such as the digital economy while strengthening the global
rules-based trading system,”  Myron Brilliant , the Chamber’s
senior vice president for international affairs, said in a
statement.  Representative Dave Camp, a Michigan Republican and head of
the Ways and Means Committee that oversees trade legislation,
said the services agreement is a “critical trade policy” that
will help create U.S. jobs.  WTO Members  “I am impressed with the group of 21 WTO members thus far
that plan to join the negotiations, representing dymanic
devleoping and developed markets for U.S. exports,” Camp said
in a statement.  Nations in the talks are Australia, Canada, Chile, Taiwan,
Colombia, Costa Rica, Hong Kong, Iceland, Israel, Japan, Korea,
Mexico, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Switzerland
and Turkey. The EU represents 27 nations.  Brazil , China and India have declined to join, saying the
efforts may impede broader global trade talks that have been
stalled.  Discussions probably will cover the cross-border movement
of financial data, information and communications services,
maritime, environmental and energy services and government
procurement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  