-- U.S. Appeals Order Freeing Publisher From Birth Control Rule
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-16T00:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/u-s-appeals-order-freeing-publisher-from-birth-control-rule-1-.html
The U.S. will appeal a temporary
court order won by a Bible publisher that blocked the Affordable
Care Act’s requirement that employers provide insurance coverage
for contraceptives.  U.S. agencies, in a filing today in Washington, said they
will ask the  U.S. Court of Appeals  to overturn U.S. District
Judge  Reggie Walton ’s ruling that the law’s coverage mandate
“substantially burdens” the religious exercise of Tyndale
House Publishers Inc. by imposing “considerable” financial
penalties for failing to offer birth control coverage to its 260
full-time employees.  The case reflects the continuing controversy over the
Affordable Care Act’s mandate that employers offer health-care
plans that include coverage for contraceptives. Last year, the
Obama administration sought to satisfy the concerns of
religious-affiliated groups by forcing insurers to pay for
contraceptives for employees of those organizations.  Forty-three Catholic organizations, including the
archdioceses of  New York  and Washington, as well as the
University of  Notre Dame  and the  Catholic University  of America,
filed a dozen lawsuits last year in courts across the country,
arguing that the mandate violates the freedom of religion
guaranteed in the U.S. Constitution’s First Amendment.  Similar Reasoning  For-profit companies, such as Tyndale and Oklahoma City,
Oklahoma’s Hobby Lobby Stores Inc., have challenged the law
under similar reasoning.  The Tyndale ruling is the second injunction blocking the
birth-control mandate to be appealed by the government. In
September, the federal government asked the U.S. Court of
Appeals in Denver to overturn a similar ruling involving a
Catholic-owned manufacturer and distributor of heating and air
conditioning equipment.  Walton issued the preliminary injunction on Nov. 16. The
single-page notice of appeal didn’t provide any details on why
the government moved to appeal before a final decision was made
by the judge.  Charles Miller , a Justice Department spokesman,
declined to comment on the filing.  Christian Books  Tyndale, a publisher of Christian books based in Carol
Stream,  Illinois , sued the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human
Services, the Treasury Department and the Labor Department on
Oct. 2, one day after the company was required to offer birth
control coverage in its insurance plan.  Under the law, employers subject to the contraceptive
coverage mandate face penalties of $100 per day per employee for
non-compliance.  Tyndale argues the law violates the religious freedoms of
the company and its owners, “who are committed to biblical
principles including the belief that all human beings are
created in the image and likeness of God from the moment of
their conception.”  “It’s disturbing that the government would appeal in order
to argue that a Bible publisher is not religious,” Matthew
Bowman, a lawyer from Alliance Defending Freedom, which
represents Tyndale and other businesses challenging the health
care law.  The case is Tyndale House Publishers Inc. v. Sebelius, 12-
cv-01635, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 