-- U.S. Neocons Should Heed Hagel’s Eisenhower Model
-- B y   E v a n   T h o m a s
-- 2013-01-15T23:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/u-s-neocons-should-heed-hagel-s-eisenhower-model.html
The conflict between Chuck Hagel,
President  Barack Obama ’s nominee for U.S. secretary of defense,
and his neoconservative detractors feels personal. Hagel once
disparaged the neocons as “chicken hawks,” and the neocons
call Hagel “an appeaser.”  But beneath the name calling lies a deeper and more
substantive divide in the Republican Party that goes back more
than a half-century.  Hagel has told friends that he takes Dwight Eisenhower, a
fellow soldier, as his model. Hagel and Eisenhower were
different kinds of warriors: Hagel was a noncommissioned officer
wounded twice in combat; Eisenhower was a commanding general who
never saw combat. But Hagel shares Eisenhower’s strong
reluctance to use military force to intervene in foreign crises.
Unlike civilians who have never served or commanded in war,
Eisenhower had, and Hagel has, a good understanding of
everything that can go wrong on the battlefield.  As president, Eisenhower was a realist, born of experience.
In the early days of the Cold War, when alarmists were warning
that the Soviet Army could drive all the way through  Europe  to
the French coast in two weeks, Eisenhower wrote in the margin of
a Pentagon planning document: “I don’t believe it. My God, we
needed two months just to overrun Sicily.”  In 1954, as its army was collapsing at Dien Bien Phu in
 Vietnam , the French asked the U.S. to intervene. Eisenhower
refused. “The jungle,” he warned his National Security
Council, “would absorb our troops by divisions!” Hagel
experienced firsthand the truth of Ike’s warning in 1968 as a
sergeant in President Lyndon Johnson’s Army in Vietnam.  No Isolationist  Eisenhower wasn’t exactly a dove and certainly not an
isolationist. While some in his party believed that the U.S.
should retreat to a “Fortress America,” Eisenhower was a
paragon of the internationalist wing that called for a strong
military alliance with Western Europe.  But Ike disliked halfway measures. In war, he believed, it
was all or nothing: Go in all the way or don’t go at all. Ike
believed that small wars led to big wars, and that a nation
fighting for survival will stop at nothing. He was skeptical
when politicians  used words  such as “surgical strike” and
called for a “flexible response” and “gradual escalation.”
War, Eisenhower believed, was a mutating monster that couldn’t
be so easily controlled.  During his presidency, he bluffed the Soviets and Red
Chinese with nuclear weapons, threatening to go all the way if
the Communists didn’t back down over Korea, Berlin and  Taiwan .
As the supreme Allied commander for the D-Day assault and the
surrender of  Germany , Ike had a credibility not every American
president can bring. But modern presidents, as well as their
defense secretaries, can appreciate that the U.S. can look
weaker, not stronger, if its forces get bogged down in
nonessential, but also unwinnable, conflicts.  If confirmed, Hagel’s greatest challenge is likely to be
 Iran ’s pursuit of nuclear weapons. Hagel may be of a mind to
ask, “What would Ike do?”  Here’s an  informed  guess: Eisenhower would threaten to use
force to take out any Iranian nuclear weapon. But he would be
vague about exactly when or how he might strike. He would use
public diplomacy and sanctions to forestall a decision to
strike, and he would lean hard on  Israel  not to take pre-emptive
action. (It was Eisenhower who used economic pressure to turn
back a joint Israeli, French and British invasion of  Egypt 
during the Suez crisis in 1956.)  He would also rely heavily on covert action. Ike frequently
used the  Central Intelligence Agency  instead of overt military
force -- to be sure, with mixed results. Not everything worked
as planned during Eisenhower’s eight years in office. But once
he had extricated the U.S. from its conflict with Korea in July
1953, he never committed another U.S. soldier to combat.  (Evan Thomas is the author of “Ike’s Bluff: President
Eisenhower’s Secret Battle to Save the World.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Evan Thomas at  evanthomas00@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 