-- U.S. Corporate Credit Swaps Fall; Dell Risk Rises for Second Day
-- B y   M a d h u r a   K a r n i k
-- 2013-01-15T23:05:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/u-s-company-credit-swaps-rise-third-day-on-debt-limit-concerns.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk fell for the first time in three days, retreating from the
highest level in about two weeks.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, dropped 1
basis point to a mid-price of 88.6 basis points at 5:53 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The measure earlier rose to as much as 92.8 basis points,
the highest intra-day level since reaching 96.7 on Jan. 2,
on investor concern that the government may not reach a
compromise on its debt limit. A failure to prevent a breach of
the $16.4 trillion limit might tip the economy into a recession,
hindering companies’ ability to repay debt.  “There is a desire to add protection, as we are nearing
the debt ceiling,” Brian Reynolds, the New York-based chief
market strategist for brokerage firm Rosenblatt Securities Inc.,
said in a telephone interview. “That seems to be the major
driver.”  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Dell Swaps  The cost to protect  Dell Inc.’s (DELL)  debt from default for five
years jumped for a second day. Credit swaps on the company’s
bonds surged to 354.1 basis points as of 4:30 p.m. in New York,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw Hill.
That’s up from 254 basis points yesterday, CMA prices show.  Dell is in buyout talks with at least two firms, according
to a person with knowledge of the matter who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private.  The risk premium on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index declined 4.1 basis points to 447.3 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , the investment bank that agreed to be
acquired by  Leucadia National Corp. (LUK) , increased the size of its
first dollar bond sale in about 21 months to $1 billion.  The average relative yield on junk-rated debt rose 2 basis
points to 4.8 percentage points today. Spreads on the bonds of
utility companies widened 10 basis points to 9.5 percentage
points, Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at
Standard & Poor’s. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madhura Karnik in New York at 
 mkarnik@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  