-- UBS Renews Two IFC Lease as Hong Kong Central Rents Drop
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-01-15T04:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/ubs-renews-two-ifc-lease-as-hong-kong-central-rents-drop.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank,
has agreed to extend its lease for almost 205,000 square feet of
space at  Two International Finance Centre  in  Hong Kong ’s Central
business district.  The bank will continue to lease the eight floors it
currently occupies in the city’s second-tallest tower until 2019
at an average monthly rent of about HK$106 ($13.70) a square
foot, said two people familiar with knowledge of the deal, who
asked not to be identified because the information isn’t public.
Fiona Chan, a UBS spokeswoman in Hong Kong, confirmed the bank
has extended the lease, declining to comment on the details.  Average rental prices in Central, the world’s most
expensive place to lease  office space , fell about 12 percent
last year as banks cut staff and sought cheaper locations on
slowing corporate finance activities. Space in buildings with
large floor plans of more than 20,000 square feet, a feature
favored by global investment banks, is in short supply in the
city, property brokers, including CBRE Group Inc., have said.  “It shows that even with all the bad news and talks of
cost cutting, a lot of existing tenants in the district just
can’t leave,” said Simon Lo, director of research and advisory
at property broker Colliers International. “This should be a
good news for the landlords.”  The average rent for prime offices in Central was about
HK$98.80 a square foot a month at the end of the third quarter,
according to Colliers.  Job Cuts  UBS moved into Two IFC in 2004 when the city was recovering
from the recession brought on by the 1997 real estate crash and
the 2003 Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome outbreak. The bank’s
current lease expires in July 2014. The bank has been paying
somewhere in the “HK$30s” for most of the space, one of the
people said, declining to give the exact rental figure.  The Two IFC complex is co-owned by companies including  Sun
Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , Henderson Land Development Co. and  MTR (66) 
Corp. Mandy Kong, a spokeswoman for MTR, the city’s subway
operator which owns the space occupied by UBS, declined to
comment.  Global financial services firms, including UBS, Bank of
America Corp., Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., have
announced a total of more than 300,000 job cuts worldwide since
the start of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Morgan Stanley plans to trim about 15 percent of its
investment banking positions in  Asia  as it starts a round of job
cuts this week, two people with knowledge of the matter said in
a story published today.  Extending Decline  Rents in Central are set to continue declining in the first
half of 2013, brokers including Los Angeles-based CBRE and Jones
Lang LaSalle Inc. of Chicago have said. Some Central landlords
have in the past year lowered asking rents by as much as 30
percent to attract tenants, according to Savills Plc, located in
 London .  Bank of America was close to agreeing to lease almost
150,000 square feet of prime office space in Hong Kong
billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s Cheung Kong Center in Central, two
people familiar with the transaction said last month. The deal,
brokered by CBRE, would be the biggest by space in the district
since at least 2003.  Central’s grade-A vacancy rate rose to 5.5 percent in the
third quarter from 3.5 percent a year earlier, according to
Seattle-based Colliers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  