-- Lukoil to Boost 2013 Oil Output, Seek Extension to Iraq Contract
-- B y   A n t o n   D o r o s h e v   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2013-01-15T14:21:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/lukoil-to-boost-2013-oil-output-seek-extension-to-iraq-contract.html
OAO Lukoil,  Russia ’s second-largest
crude producer, expects to boost oil output 1.5 percent this
year as it invests in Siberian drilling and starts production at
 Iraq ’s West Qurna-2 field.  The Moscow-based company will seek to extend its contract
to operate the Iraqi field by five years after the Middle
eastern state asked Lukoil to reduce peak output levels,
billionaire Chief Executive Officer Vagit Alekperov told
reporters today in Novy Urengoi. Iraq’s request is related to
infrastructure issues and a nationwide reduction in planned
output, according to Lukoil last month.  “There will be slight growth in 2013” with larger gains
in 2014 to 2016 as oil projects start, Alekperov said today
before a meeting on offshore projects led by Prime Minister
Dmitry Medvedev. Lukoil is seeking new offshore projects in West
Africa and  Brazil , he said.  Lukoil is drilling in Siberia, the Caspian, Uzbekistan,
Iraq and West Africa to bolster output after stabilizing
domestic declines last year. Volumes had slumped since 2009 as
the company withheld investment in expectation of tax breaks,
while the company was forced to write down reserves at an
underperforming Arctic deposit last year.  Alekperov said he’ll meet with Iraqi leadership on Jan. 17
for talks on output levels outlined in service contracts. The
company is continuing the search for a partner for West Qurna-2
following the exit of  Norway ’s Statoil SA.  “We aren’t just interested in money, but the long-term
sales of our products,” Alekperov said. “An attractive partner
for us would be  China , where there is stable demand growth.”  Russian daily average oil output began rising in May this
year after dropping to its lowest level since at least 2005 in
April, according to data provided each month by Energy
Ministry’s CDU-TEK unit. Total oil production, including
international projects, fell to 89.9 million metric tons last
year from 90.9 million tons of output in 2011, according to
information on the company website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anton Doroshev in Novy Urengoi at 
 adoroshev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  