-- Mumford & Sons Lead British Invasion With Blazing Rock
-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 2013-01-15T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/mumford-sons-lead-british-invasion-with-blazing-rock.html
This could be the year of stomping
bluegrass, blazing banjo and pithy vocal harmonies.  Unlikely though it may sound, the British invasion of the
U.S. is being led by the musicians in  Mumford & Sons . The band
is preparing to tour after being nominated for six Grammy
awards. “Babel,” which is up for album of the year, sold more
than 600,000 copies in the U.S. in its first week alone.  Judging by the shows in the U.K., listeners can expect a
gentlemanly riot of folky songs topped off with a barnstorming
Beatles cover.  For all this, the Mumfords have attracted some critical
derision. Their olde-Englishe affectations, the vintage rustic
clothing, the mock village-fete staging, even the whimsy of the
band name, are the very opposite of cool.  Purloining folk music’s prettier aspects, and dabbling in
the genre’s traditions of gritty social narrative -- when one
comes from a manifestly comfortable background -- is decried by
many. Marrying a Hollywood actress (in fact Marcus Mumford and
 Carey Mulligan  were childhood friends) is passe.  Yet from the opening acoustic strums of “Babel,” it’s
impossible not to get swept up by the vivacity. Witnessing the
four members stand in a line at the front of the stage, the
reasons for the success becomes clear.  Kick Drum  Despite fielding only piano, acoustic guitar, banjo and
bass, with a solitary kick-drum at Marcus Mumford’s feet to
provide a beat, Mumford & Sons effortlessly rock even London’s
20,000-capacity  O2  arena.  “I Will Wait” provides an early sing-along. ‘Country’
Winston Marshall attempts Metallica-style fireworks with his
plucky little banjo. Mumford’s voice adds an appealing gruffness
to “Below My Feet.”  Other instruments, including strings, brass and elements
from the Los Angeles band  Dawes  come and go, adding variety. The
writing is indebted to the U2 school of stadium entertainment.
Songs swell boisterously and contract into intimacy. “Little
Lion Man” has emotional grit and melodic roar.  Much has been made of Mumford’s Christianity (his parents
are leaders of an evangelical church). His lyrics go beyond the
mere use of biblical images. As explorations of faith, alongside
lust and love, his songs ring emotionally true.  There are literary references too. “Dust Bowl Dance” is
inspired by Steinbeck. The most overtly traditional of the
songs, and dealing with events outside the band’s direct
experience, it veers into pastiche.  They use it to rock out, even allowing a little electric
guitar distortion among the enthusiasm. A microphone stand is
knocked flying.  Neil Young ’s gnarly crown remains untouched.  “The Cave” is more successful, the audience whooping
along to its heady Platonic hoedown. A cover of The Beatles’
“With a Little Help From My Friends,” all celebration and free
of sentimentality, brings the show to a roof-raising close.  The naysayers might be hip. It is Mumford & Sons that is
having the fun.  Rating: ****.  The Mumford tour starts on Feb. 5 in Boston, moving to the
Barclays Center in  New York  the following day. In March the band
returns to Europe for shows in  Poland ,  Austria , Germany,  Italy ,
 France  and  Spain . Information:  http://www.mumfordandsons.com   ( Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market 
and  Amanda Gordon's  Scene Last Night.   To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 