-- Hungary’s Inflation Rate Unexpectedly Declines to Lowest in Year
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-01-15T08:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/hungary-s-inflation-rate-unexpectedly-declines-to-lowest-in-year.html
 Hungary’s inflation rate
unexpectedly dropped to a 12-month low in December, adding to
arguments for monetary-policy makers to continue reducing
interest rates.  The inflation rate was 5 percent in December, compared with
5.2 percent in November and the 5.2 percent median estimate of
15 economists in a Bloomberg survey, the statistics office in
Budapest said. Prices were unchanged versus November.  Outgoing central bank President Andras Simor, who on Dec. 7
urged the bank to act “much more firmly” against inflation,
has been outvoted along with his two deputies on rate cuts by
non-executive members who want to spur an economy battling its
second recession in four years. The bank lowered the  two-week
deposit rate  to 5.75 percent on Dec. 18 in the fifth quarter-
point cut in as many months even as price-growth was projected
to exceed the bank’s 3 percent target in the mid-term.  “An earlier increase in food prices didn’t continue,”
statistician Borbala Minary told reporters today when asked to
explain the drop in the inflation rate. An increase in the
excise tax on tobacco products, which boosted prices in December
2011 and was repeated in late 2012, is yet to show in the price
index, she said.  The forint weakened last week after Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy , the favorite to succeed Simor in March according to
the news website Index, said Hungary should reject
“traditional” economic models including policies to fight
inflation that kept the forint strong.  Monetary Stimulus  Prime Minister Viktor Orban is looking to use monetary
stimulus to boost growth before the 2014 elections after his
“unorthodox” policies helped drive the economy into its second
recession in four years, damaging investment, lending,
consumption and growth.  The policies included special levies on the banking,
energy, retail and telecommunications industries, as well as the
nationalization of private pension fund assets to keep the
budget shortfall below 3 percent of economic output to avoid
losing EU development funds.  The new Magyar Nemzeti Bank chief should follow the
European Central Bank and the Federal Reserve in providing
monetary stimulus, “bravely” using unorthodox tools as part of
a “strategic alliance” with the government, Matolcsy said on
Dec. 22.  The central bank’s quarterly staff report last month
lowered the inflation forecast for 2013 to an average 3.5
percent from 5.8 percent in September, as a result of the
government cutting household energy prices by 10 percent from
January and delaying an increase in excise taxes. The bank sees
the economy growing 0.5 percent this year after an expected 1.4
percent contraction in 2012.  The four non-executive policy makers, appointed by Orban’s
ruling party in 2011, have pointed to the resilience of the
currency and falling risk premium for supporting monetary
easing. They have also argued that the inflation rate may drop
to the bank’s target in 2014 as cost shocks from energy and food
prices fade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  