-- UnitedHealth Joins Mayo Clinic in Pact to Improve Care
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-01-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/unitedhealth-joins-mayo-clinic-in-pact-to-improve-care.html
UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the largest
U.S. provider of medical coverage, will join the  Mayo Clinic  in
a research alliance designed to merge insurance records and
medical data to find more efficient ways to deliver care.  The venture will focus on fundamental issues that may help
standardize care in a way that will lower costs, said Veronique
Roger, head of the clinic’s Center for the Science of Health
Delivery. This could include things such as analyzing the steps
needed for successful hip replacement surgery or ways to get
patients to consistently take their medicines, she said.  “Every doctor, every nurse, every academic medical center
wants only to do the right thing for their patients,” said John Noseworthy, the clinic’s chief executive officer. “Mayo has
been on this path forever, but we have not been able to do it on
a grand scale, as we’ll be able to do with this relationship.”  The alliance will be based in an “innovation center”
known as Optum Labs in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , and will have a
staff of about 60. No financial terms were disclosed.  The two organizations chose Cambridge as neutral territory,
where health providers, industry leaders and researchers from
around the U.S. can work together to improve patient care and
boost efficiency, said Andy Slavitt, group executive vice
president at Optum, a technology and consulting unit for
UnitedHealth that analyzes insurance records and advises
employers, hospitals and other clients on best practices.  “We are bringing together our assets, technology, tools,
and research scientists in a dedicated facility,” said Stephen Hemsley, chief executive officer of Minnetonka, Minnesota-based
UnitedHealth. “This is the beginning. We want to create an
innovation center for the health care industry to make an impact
for the benefit of individual patients and to contribute to the
overall improvement of care.”  Eventually the pair plans to invite others from the health
care industry to join their efforts, either on a project-by-
project basis or a longer-term commitment, the executives said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  