-- Turkey and Its Rebel Kurds May Want Peace This Time
-- B y   H u g h   P o p e
-- 2013-01-15T23:55:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/turkey-and-its-rebel-kurds-may-want-peace-this-time.html
The assassinations last week in
Paris of three female Kurdish activists from  Turkey  have, for
now at least, had the opposite effect to the one their
perpetrators almost certainly intended.  Instead of engulfing the country with Kurdish anger,
Turkish cynicism and a new cycle of violence, the killings have
revealed the depth of public and political support behind
efforts to negotiate an end to three decades of insurgency by
the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, better known as the PKK.  Ruling-party politicians including Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , leaders of the Kurdish movement, Turkey’s main
opposition Republican  People’s Party , Kurdish intellectuals and
the news media have reacted to the professional slaying of the
three pro-PKK activists by urging the two sides to redouble
their efforts toward a peaceful settlement of this bloody
conflict.  Most in Ankara seem to agree that the attack in Paris aimed
to derail the peace talks, even as theories abound on who did
it, including fears that the deaths may be the result of new
hostility between Turkey and several of its Middle Eastern
neighbors.  After an initial shock, Turkish and Kurdish opinion makers
seem to accept it is unlikely that either the Turkish government
or the PKK’s mainstream leadership had any reason for sending a
hit man to wreck the remarkably hopeful new talks that started
late last year between Turkey’s National Intelligence
Organization and the jailed PKK leader,  Abdullah Ocalan .  Added Anger  There is no room for complacency. An anguished Kurdish
reaction shows that at a minimum, the attack added anger to the
distrust between the Turkish state and its 15 percent to 20
percent Kurdish population.  Policy makers in Ankara also have new cause to worry that
opposition within the PKK may mean that Ocalan can’t deliver any
peace deal they may eventually strike with him.  And right-wing Turkish nationalists also still look for any
chance to trip up Erdogan’s efforts to find a compromise end to
the PKK conflict. All sides should be vigilant in their public
statements and actions so as not to further shake brittle
confidence.  Still, the  opportunity  at hand for peace is of major
importance. The PKK’s insurgency since 1984 is often shrugged
aside as obscure and distant, though it has devastated
southeastern Turkey, killed more than 30,000 people, cost the
country $300 billion, displaced hundreds of thousands and, in
1998, came close to sparking a war between Turkey and  Syria .  In just the 18 months since the previous talks with the PKK
were broken off, an informal, minimum tally by  International
Crisis Group  counts almost 900 people killed.  Critically, senior figures on both sides at last clearly
accept that neither can obtain an absolute political or military
victory.  More than a year without any elections gives Erdogan the
political space he needs to secure a settlement ahead of his
probable bid for the presidency in mid-2014. Signals of goodwill
include the government’s decision last week to allow Ocalan the
same access to watch television as other inmates and permission
for Kurdish movement leaders to visit him on Imrali island,
where he is guarded with a handful of other prisoners in the Sea
of Marmara.  During the so-called democratic opening and talks with the
PKK in 2005 through 2011, Erdogan prepared Turkish public
opinion for unprecedented steps, such as enabling Kurdish-
language television broadcasts, holding publicly acknowledged
talks with PKK leaders and offering optional Kurdish language
lessons in schools.  Abandoned Initiative  Unfortunately, Erdogan abandoned that initiative halfway in
the face of domestic opposition. This time, the signs are
better. Even before the deaths in Paris, the opposition
 Republican People’s Party  for once put daily politics aside to
support the peace initiative. The powerful exiled Muslim leader
Fethullah Gulen has also personally pledged his support for the
talks.  If the PKK insurgency roars back into life, it’s not just
the potential death toll that is fearsome. Turkey’s relations
with its Middle Eastern neighbors will probably sour further,
too.  A PKK sister party has emerged as a dominant force among
Syrian Kurds, 10 percent of the Syrian population, who mainly
live along the northern Syrian border with Turkey.  Iraq ’s
central government, at loggerheads with Turkey for two years,
has signaled new opposition to Turkish air force raids on PKK
bases in northern Iraq. And a Turkish deputy prime minister has
accused  Iran  of allowing the PKK to operate over the mountainous
Turkish-Iranian border.  Nevertheless, the government appears committed to what
Yalcin Akdogan, the prime minister’s main adviser on Kurdish
affairs, said this month was a vision for a “final settlement.”  He revealed details of the government’s thinking that
suggest it may be overconfident on two points: that hardline PKK
leaders are tired and only want to go home, and that Ocalan can
easily order thousands of PKK fighters to withdraw from Turkish
territory. Akdogan acknowledged, however, that any Turkish plan
had to do more than just fight the PKK and deal with the Kurdish
issue as a whole.  Closed negotiations between the state and Ocalan are
unlikely to succeed if they aren’t part of a broader social-
political change and a comprehensive conflict-resolution
 strategy .  To reach its goal of disarming and reintegrating the PKK
insurgents, such a policy will have to include: removal of
discrimination from the constitution and laws; releasing from
custody the thousands of nonviolent Kurdish activists arrested
since 2009; full mother-language education where there is
sufficient demand; a lowering of the national election threshold
from 10 percent to the European norm of 5 percent, to allow the
legal Kurdish party to compete fairly; and real work on Turkey’s
political decentralization.  Inching Closer  The government and the Kurdish national movement are
inching closer together, even though their demands and time
frames remain far apart. The movement still seeks freer access
to news media, more open jail conditions for Ocalan and legal
acceptance for a pro-PKK  umbrella organization  called the
Kurdistan National Congress.
Selahattin Demirtas, co-chairman of the Kurdish Peace and
Democracy Party, pointed out last week that there is so far “no
road map, no plan for a solution and no scheduled program” to
solve “30 ongoing years of blood and tears with a history of
almost 100 years of deep-rooted historical, social, political,
cultural and economic problems.”  Still, for once a Kurdish leader such as Demirtas could
also say he now detects on both sides “a determined will and
desire for a solution.”  (Hugh Pope is the Turkey-Cyprus project director for the
International Crisis Group and co-author of “Turkey Unveiled: a
history of modern Turkey.” The opinions expressed are his own.
Follow him on Twitter at  @Hugh_Pope .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Hugh Pope at  hpope@crisisgroup.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 