-- HMV Rescue Bid Weighed by U.K. Private-Equity Firm Endless
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o   a n d   T o m   F r e k e
-- 2013-01-15T13:45:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/hmv-rescue-bid-weighed-by-u-k-private-equity-firm-endless-1-.html
Endless LLP, a private-equity firm
that focuses on companies in distress, contacted  HMV Group Plc (HMV) ’s
prospective administrators with a view to buying the U.K.’s
biggest retailer of CDs and DVDs.  Garry Wilson, a founding partner at Leeds, England-based
Endless, said in an e-mailed statement that he has been in touch
with Deloitte LLP about the high street chain.  HMV is among specialist U.K. retailers hurt by growing
competition from supermarkets and Web retailers such as
Amazon.com Inc. The store known for its iconic “His Master’s
Voice” dog-and-gramophone trademark faced a test on its bank
loans at the end of January, and said yesterday it was unable to
trade without insolvency protection.  Once appointed as administrators, Deloitte plans to keep
Maidenhead, England-based HMV’s 230 stores open while seeking a
buyer for the business.  There’ll be a “flurry of interest” in HMV and any rescue
deal will depend on support from the retailer’s suppliers,
Endless’s Wilson said. “If they don’t give the new owners any
credit, then the cash need to resurrect it will be huge and put
off most people,” he said.  Endless’s latest investments include U.K. retailer
Bathstore and visual effects studio Cinesite, according to its
 website .  James Igoe, a spokesman in London for Deloitte, didn’t
return to two phone calls and an e-mail.  Bank ‘Support’  Lenders led by Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Lloyds
Banking Group Plc provided “significant support” to HMV in the
last two years, according to an e-mailed statement from RBS.
“Despite the best efforts of management, lenders and suppliers,
it has not proven possible to avoid a formal insolvency
process,” RBS said.  HMV said in December it was “probable” it wouldn’t comply
with banking covenants this month. The retailer said in the
statement that its net debt was 176.1 million pounds ($283
million) as of October.  HMV’s syndicate of banks agreed last year to extend the
maturity of its 220 million pounds of loans to September 2014
from 2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company had been working with suppliers and banks for
the last few weeks as it sought a rescue deal, Ian Kenyon, HMV’s
finance director, said in a conference call today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Kuo in  London  at 
 Pkuo2@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Freke in London at 
 Tfreke@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  