-- Venezuela Isn’t Importing Gasoline, Oil Minister Says
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2013-01-15T21:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/venezuela-isn-t-importing-gasoline-oil-minister-says.html
Venezuela  is not importing gasoline,
and the country’s refineries are in “perfect” condition, state
radio station RNV reported on its  website  today, citing oil
minister  Rafael Ramirez .  The South American country, which has the largest oil
reserves in the world, imports gasoline additives to comply with
environmental regulations, said Ramirez, who is also president
of state oil company  Petroleos de Venezuela SA , known as PDVSA.  “The old PDVSA used to send out gasoline with lead,
because it was more economical,” RNV quoted Ramirez as saying.
“We changed that policy and are bringing in additives for green
gasoline and increasing our capacity.”  The U.S. exported 83,000 barrels a day of oil products to
Venezuela in October last year, including 39,000 barrels a day
of finished motor gasoline and 15,000 barrels a day of the
additive methyl tertiary butyl ether, or MTBE, according to the
most recent  data  from the U.S. Energy Information
Administration.  U.S. exports of oil products to Venezuela surged to a
record 196,000 barrels a day in September after an Aug. 25
explosion at the Amuay refinery, the country’s largest, killed
more than 40 people and took processing capacity offline.  Ramirez said Nov. 7 that Amuay was processing about 400,000
barrels a day and has not provided new production data since.
The refinery has installed capacity to process 645,000 barrels a
day of oil.  The refining industry’s contribution to Venezuela’s gross
domestic product fell 0.8 percent last year, as the Amuay
accident temporarily paralyzed half of the country’s refining
capacity, the  Central Bank  said last month in its end-of-year
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  