-- Veolia Draws Upon Fukushima to Move Into Nuclear Dismantling
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-01-15T17:21:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/veolia-draws-upon-fukushima-to-move-into-nuclear-dismantling-1-.html
Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) , which
treated radioactive water from  Japan ’s nuclear meltdown at
Fukushima, plans to use the experience to move into
decontamination and power plant dismantling.  The water utility and the nuclear research group known as
CEA plan to earn as much as 400 million euros ($534 million) in
revenue within about four years by cleaning radioactive sites
and taking apart installations, they said today.  “The market is developing very quickly,” Veolia Chief
Executive Officer Antoine Frerot told a press conference today
in Paris. About 300 nuclear reactors will have to be halted
worldwide within two decades including in  France ,  Germany , Japan
and the U.S., he said.  The shift into the atomic market comes after President
 Francois Hollande  pledged to lower France’s dependence on the
energy and shut the country’s oldest plant at Fessenheim. It’s
also the first new market Veolia has publicly announced it will
enter into since Frerot pledged to pull out of some countries
and businesses in a bid to boost profit.  The CEO is more than one year into what he described as a
two-year “profound transformation” of the Paris-based utility
designed to cut debt, costs, sell assets and scale back global
operations. Frerot has also reshuffled the board following the
departure of his predecessor  Henri Proglio .  Veolia and the CEA want to oversee and coordinate large-
scale nuclear projects in the “currently fragmented” market,
according to Frerot. “We are independent of all nuclear
operators so we have a role to play.”  The utility said it worked with  Areva SA (AREVA)  to treat 18,000
tons of highly-radioactive water from Fukushima, earning about
30 million euros in revenue.  France derives more than three quarters of its power
production from 58 nuclear reactors operated by state-controlled
 Electricite de France SA . Dismantling nuclear installations will
cost an estimated 32 billion euros, the state auditor said last
year. The CEA spends about 600 million euros a year on such
operations.  Frerot dismissed speculation that his relations with
Proglio, who reportedly tried to oust him last year, will harm
Veolia and CEA’s chances of winning orders from EDF.  “Veolia doesn’t have a problem with EDF,” Frerot said.
“There may be a problem between men but there is no problem
between the organizations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  