-- VW’s Mexican Motors Lead Push to Narrow U.S. Gap With GM
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-01-16T07:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/vw-s-mexican-motors-lead-push-to-narrow-u-s-gap-with-gm.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  Chief Executive
Officer  Martin Winterkorn  cut short his visit to the North
American International Auto Show in frigid  Detroit  this week to
head to balmy  Mexico . He didn’t go for the weather.  The executive’s whirlwind North American tour was another
step in his strategy to make VW the world’s largest automaker by
2018. Fresh from the Detroit unveiling of a sport-utility
vehicle aimed at challenging  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Explorer,
Winterkorn opened a $550 million factory in Silao, about 200
miles northwest of Mexico City, at a ceremony attended by
President Enrique Pena Nieto.  “With this new plant, we are driving our ambitious North
American offensive forward,” Winterkorn said yesterday in
Mexico at the factory opening. “Silao is thus also a strong
symbol of our uninterrupted growth trajectory and the group’s
continuing internationalization.”  The facility, which will supply VW’s two North American
assembly plants with as many as 330,000 engines a year, marks
the Wolfsburg-based manufacturer’s 100th production site and
helps make it the most global carmaker in the world. VW this
year will have 77 percent of its production capacity outside its
home country, nipping past  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s 76 percent and
ahead of Toyota Motor Corp.’s 59 percent, according to
consultancy  Oliver Wyman .  European Decline  The fact that the plant was opened in North America
underscores VW’s ambition to take on GM more directly in the
Detroit-based automaker’s home market. The German manufacturer
plans to spend $5 billion over the next three years to expand in
the region. Growth there is critical for VW to offset a demand
decline in  Europe  that threatens to halt its progress.  “Volkswagen has a lot of catching up to do in the U.S.,”
said  Stefan Bratzel , director of the Center of Automotive
Management at the University of Applied Sciences in  Bergisch
Gladbach ,  Germany . “They won’t reach their 2018 goals if they
don’t get stronger” in  North America .  Volkswagen’s global sales are forecast to edge 0.7 percent
higher to 9.15 million vehicles in 2013, its slowest growth pace
since the financial crunch in 2009, according to IHS Automotive.
Growth in the U.S. and  China  will be needed to make up for a 5.8
percent drop in European deliveries as German demand stalls and
the Polo subcompact ages.  Underscoring the need for growth outside its home market,
the VW’s sales in Europe plunged 15 percent in December,
bringing the drop for the year to 1.1 percent. The total market
fell 7.8 percent in 2012, according to the ACEA industry group.
The slowdown could catch some VW investors off guard.  Doubling Value  “Given what the stock gain implies in growth and
profitability, VW needs to keep filling the pipeline,” said
Eerik Budarz, a Frankfurt-based analyst with Westend Brokers.
“Otherwise, investors are going to take profits. When you get
used to success, the risk of disappointment grows.”  VW’s  share price  has more than doubled since 2009, valuing
the company at 78.4 billion euros ($104 billion). The stock
surge was underpinned by a 44 percent climb in deliveries since
then to 9.07 million vehicles last year. After carving out
leading positions in Europe, China and  Brazil , Volkswagen has
disappointed in the U.S., where its 4 percent market share pales
compared with its control of about 15 percent of global sales.  That’s starting to change. Demand for Audi and VW-brand
vehicles in 2012 surged 31 percent to 580,200 cars, beating the
previous high from 1970 when the Beetle and Microbus helped
define American culture. This year, VW aims to report a profit
in the U.S., its first there since 2002.  Pragmatic Passat  The new face of VW in North America is the pragmatic
 Passat. (PSAT)  The mid-sized sedan, built in a new $1 billion factory
in  Tennessee , is bigger and cheaper than the European version.
The Passat and the Mexican-made Jetta combined to account for
two-thirds of VW sales in the U.S. in 2012, the first full year
for the U.S.-made sedan.  “Volkswagen was always a unique buy, different from the
mainstream,” said Michael Morais, chief operating officer of
Open Road Auto Group, which operates 15 showrooms in in  New York 
and  New Jersey , including three VW stores. Now, they’re
combining bread-and-butter models with “very enthusiastic
products that inspire,” he said.  VW’s push into the mass market will take another step when
it rolls out a production version of the Crossblue concept,
which drew a crowd of 25 TV and video crews at its Detroit
debut. The seven-seater would challenge the Ford Explorer,
Chrysler Group LLC’s Jeep Grand Cherokee and  Toyota (7203) ’s Highlander
as a sportier family-car alternative to a minivan.  SUV Expansion  SUV sales account for 29 percent of the U.S. market, the
biggest segment after sedans. VW forecasts SUV demand to grow
more than 20 percent by 2018, outpacing all other niches. In
addition to the Crossblue, VW premiered the Taigun compact
concept at the Sao Paulo Motor Show in October. The two models
would double VW’s SUV lineup, which currently consists of the
upscale Touareg and the smaller Tiguan.  To check VW’s American growth plans, GM will introduce 13
new Chevrolet models in the U.S. this year and will refresh 70
percent of its U.S. lineup over a year and a half, including the
full-sized Impala sedan and the Corvette sports car. GM intends
to grow faster than competitors in the U.S. after its market
share hit an 88-year low in 2012.  Toyota, which regained the global sales crown last year,
will look to defend that lead in 2013 when it updates mass-
market models like the Corolla, which competes with VW’s best-
selling Jetta in the U.S.  Those efforts may do little to slow VW’s progress. The
carmaker is forecast to boost its U.S. market share to 4.3
percent this year, even as GM and Toyota stagnate at 17.9
percent and 14.4 percent, respectively, according to a survey of
five analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  “Volkswagen is like a tanker,” said Frank Biller, an
analyst LBBW in Stuttgart, Germany. “Once heading in one
direction, it can hardly be stopped. The 2018 strategy has
proven to be the right course.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  