-- Wal-Mart to Offer Jobs to All Veterans, Boost U.S. Buying
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2013-01-15T16:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/wal-mart-to-offer-jobs-to-all-veterans-boost-u-s-buying.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, pledged to hire all honorably discharged U.S.
veterans and buy an additional $50 billion in U.S. products in
the coming decade.  The initiative to offer jobs to veterans within a year of
leaving active duty may result in about 100,000 hires in the
next five years, Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart said today
in a statement. About two-thirds of Wal-Mart’s products are
made, sourced or grown in the U.S., the company said.  Wal-Mart said the hiring and sourcing pledges are meant to
create jobs in the U.S., where the  unemployment  rate has been
higher than 7 percent for more than four years. The retailer has
about about 1.4 million employees in the country, according to a
March regulatory filing.  “It’s a good pool of labor that fits well into how Walmart
runs its business, with potential associates that are accustomed
to a chain of command, standard operating procedures,
disciplined scheduling,”  Colin McGranahan , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York, said today in an e-mail.
“It also generates positive PR for Walmart at a time when the
company could certainly use some.”  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the  U.S.
Department of Justice  are probing allegations that Wal-Mart
bribed officials to speed its expansion in  Mexico . The company
also has been criticized following reports that its suppliers
were making garments at a Bangladesh factory where more than 100
people died in a November blaze. Earlier that month, the company
came under fire for opening stores on Thanksgiving night,
requiring employees to work on the holiday.  Obama Praise  First Lady  Michelle Obama  and U.S. Senator  John McCain 
praised Wal-Mart’s hiring plan in statements released by the
company and asked other businesses to follow its lead in helping
veterans.  Aside from the positive publicity, the initiative could
generate as much as $960 million in tax breaks for the retailer.  Under a U.S. tax provision that was extended through 2013,
employers can get tax credits of as much as $9,600 for hiring
veterans, depending on their disability status, hours of work
and other criteria. The one-year extension was part of the tax
law that President  Barack Obama  signed Jan. 2 and is estimated
to cost the government $125 million in foregone revenue in the
next decade.  Tax Credits  The full $960 million in tax credits would only be reached
if Wal-Mart hired all 100,000 employees from the category with
the largest available credit and Congress extends the break for
four more years. The actual number probably will be smaller
because the $9,600 credit is available only for hiring disabled
veterans with periods of unemployment exceeding six months.  Wal-Mart rose 0.1 percent to $68.39 at 11:10 a.m. in New
York. The shares increased 14 percent last year, compared with a
13 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Bill Simon , head of Wal-Mart’s U.S. stores, said today in
remarks prepared for the National Retail Federation’s annual
convention that Wal-Mart also would “bring more transparency to
our scheduling system so part-time workers can choose more hours
for themselves.” Employees and union-backed activists have
complained in the past that Wal-Mart’s system leaves employees
with erratic schedules and fewer hours than they want.  “We want all of our associates to find the career
opportunities they want with Walmart,” Simon said in his
prepared remarks. “We will make sure part-time associates have
full visibility into full-time job openings in their stores and
nearby stores, and that they always have first shot at those
jobs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Dudley in  New York  at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  