-- WellPoint Said to Consider Carlson Among CEO Options
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-01-15T21:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/wellpoint-said-to-consider-carlson-among-ceo-options.html
WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the second-biggest
U.S. health insurer, is considering former Amerigroup Corp.
Chief Executive Officer James Carlson among several finalists to
become CEO, according to a person familiar with the matter.  WellPoint has delayed defining a role for Carlson, who
joined WellPoint through its $4.9 billion acquisition of
Amerigroup last year, because he is a contender for the top
position, said the person, who asked for anonymity because the
information is private. Retired  Aetna Inc. (AET)  CEO Ronald Williams
is also thought to be a leading candidate, according to analysts
at BMO Capital Markets and Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Carlson, 60, built Amerigroup into one of the biggest
insurers focused on the growing Medicaid sector and would bring
much-needed strategic experience to the carrier. The previous
CEO Angela Braly, an attorney, left last August amid complaints
about disappointing profits and management missteps.  He’d be a “very solid” pick, said Mark Giambrone, a
portfolio manager at Dallas-based Barrow, Hanley, Mewhinney &
Strauss, WellPoint’s second-biggest  stockholder . “Of the people
out there as candidates, he’s certainly one I’d consider a good
choice.”  Statements and filings this month have fueled speculation
among analysts and shareholders that Carlson has vaulted ahead
of other prospects. While Carlson joined WellPoint last month
after the Amerigroup deal closed, the Indianapolis-based insurer
has yet to announce his compensation package, suggesting that
something bigger may be under negotiation. WellPoint also
conspicuously didn’t define Carlson’s role during an investor
conference last week, said  Dave Shove , a BMO Capital Markets
analyst in New York.  ‘Tea Leaf’  “It’s another tea leaf pointing in his direction,” Shove
said by telephone.  Still, the insurer hasn’t disclosed publicly who it’s
talking to and there’s no guarantee Carlson will be the choice,
Shove said.  In an e-mail, Kristin Binns, a WellPoint spokeswoman, said
the company wouldn’t comment on the CEO search. Maureen McDonnell, an Amerigroup spokeswoman, also declined to discuss
the process or Carlson’s role. Katherine Mentus, a spokesman for
Williams, declined to comment when reached by telephone.  A decision seems likely by Feb. 28, when WellPoint will
hold a day-long conference for analysts, said  Ana Gupte , a
Sanford C. Bernstein analyst in New York. Based on conversations
with investors, Williams and Carlson were “definitely the
front-runners,” she said.  Seeking Closure  “People just want closure and somebody who’s going to take
the reins at this point,” Gupte said in a telephone interview.
“It’s going to be a positive catalyst either way.”  WellPoint rose 1 percent to $63.01 at the close in New
York. The shares have slipped 12 percent in the past 12 months,
even as the top medical insurer, Minnetonka, Minnesota-based
 UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , gained 1.7 percent.  WellPoint’s board has been interviewing executives and
expects to make a decision by this quarter, interim CEO John Cannon told investors at a conference Jan. 8. He declined to
discuss specific names. The company hired London-based
recruiting firm Spencer Stuart & Associates Ltd. in September
and said the process would take three to six months.  WellPoint would be a far bigger assignment for Carlson than
Amerigroup, which oversaw coverage to 2.7 million people in
Medicaid, the joint state-federal program for the poor. At
WellPoint, he’d lead an insurance heavyweight with 36 million
customers across commercial and government-backed health plans,
along with dental and vision services.  Strong Execution  Nonetheless, he’d bring a reputation for strong execution
and transparency that investors found lacking under Braly, said
Brian Wright, a Monness Crespi Hardt & Co. analyst.  At Amerigroup, “he was either the No. 2 or the No. 1
during a tremendous period of growth for the organization,” the
analyst said in a phone interview.  Carlson became CEO at Amerigroup in September 2007, after
four years as chief operating officer. He sold the business to
WellPoint at a 43 percent premium and also is a former executive
at UnitedHealth.  Williams, 63, retired in 2011 after a decade at Aetna, the
nation’s third-biggest insurer, including four years as chief
executive officer and chairman. He’s credited with steering the
Hartford, Connecticut-based company back toward profitability,
though with a stock that  lagged peers  during his time. He
previously worked at WellPoint, running its large-employer
division and a Blue Cross plan in  California .  Non-Compete Agreement  Williams’ has a non-compete agreement with Aetna that
expires next month, so an extended search might suggest his
chances at winning the WellPoint spot are improving, Gupte said.  Talk about Carlson has grown because WellPoint has yet to
announce his stock compensation package, as it did earlier this
month for another Amerigroup executive joining the company, said
Wright, of Monness Crespi. “The thought process is that there
could be a reason why it’s more complicated to negotiate the
Carlson grant -- the CEO transition,” Wright said.  Speculation heightened last week when Cannon, the interim
CEO, spoke at JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s annual health-care
conference in San Francisco. While Carlson has been expected to
run WellPoint’s Medicaid business, Cannon said the unit would be
led by Richard Zoretic, former chief operating officer at
Amerigroup.  The comments are “inviting reasonable speculation about
whether this means Carlson will be the next CEO,” Carl McDonald, a Citigroup analyst, wrote in a Jan. 12 research note
to clients. Cannon isn’t interested in the job on a permanent
basis, WellPoint has said in past statements.  Rocket Science  Braly, appointed CEO in 2007, was ousted after investors
publicly criticized her management. She resigned on Aug. 28, a
month after the company missed analysts’ profit estimates for
the second time in three quarters. It was the latest in a series
of missteps during a tenure marked by difficulties with
predicting medical costs and declining  enrollment .  “I don’t think it’s rocket science,” Giambrone said in a
phone interview about WellPoint’s leadership. “They have a
great brand. They’re a low-cost producer. The company generates
tremendous free-cash flow. All they have to do is operate
correctly and allocate capital correctly and they have a great
business. But when it’s not operated correctly, you are where
you are now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  