-- Wells Fargo Bets on Charlotte Trading After BofA Flees
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-01-15T05:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/wells-fargo-bets-on-charlotte-trading-after-bofa-flees.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  is betting its
securities business can thrive 600 miles from  New York  in the
same city  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s traders largely abandoned.  The first of 900 Wells Fargo employees moved last month
into a new space on two floors of a  48-story tower  in  Charlotte ,
North Carolina. From their windows they can see the complex a
half-mile away where Bank of America built its own state-of-the-
art facility less than a decade ago for about 550 traders and
bankers. Most have since been fired or moved to New York.  Both banks are vying to be winners in bond trading even as
margins collapse and rivals such as UBS AG quit the field. Wells
Fargo is out to prove the business doesn’t need to be in New
York, with John Shrewsberry, president of the firm’s securities
unit, counting on lifestyle perks, cheaper housing and the San
Francisco-based bank’s status as a growing company to lure
talented people.  “On a day-by-day basis in terms of information flow, it’s
all electronic, and we’re as wired as anyone else,”
Shrewsberry, 47, said in an interview. “People don’t run out of
their buildings in downtown or midtown Manhattan and meet in the
street to talk about markets.”  To build the business, Wells Fargo Chief Executive Officer
 John Stumpf , 59, is relying on a corps of traders  added  in the
2008 acquisition of Wachovia Corp. About 1,500 bond-trading and
 investment-banking  employees reside in Charlotte, the 17th
largest U.S. city. That compares with about 700 in New York,
where the equities business is based. Less than a dozen people
were transferred to Charlotte from  San Francisco , which houses
about 400 securities personnel, said  Elise Wilkinson , a Wells
Fargo spokeswoman.  New-Carpet Smell  The bank has capacity for about 1,200 traders and support
staff in the 70,000-square-foot facility, where a new-carpet
smell still permeated the space on a December afternoon. It
features more than two dozen 70-inch, high-definition television
screens and under-floor cooling with customizable floor vents.  Bank of America moved many traders out of Charlotte, where
the entire company is based, after the lender’s 2009 purchase of
New York-based Merrill Lynch & Co., said a person with direct
knowledge of the lender who asked not to be identified because
he wasn’t authorized to speak publicly. As the business grew
more global, it made sense to consolidate in a financial center
such as New York, the person said. A small number of traders
still work in Charlotte. Kerrie McHugh, a Bank of America
spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Culture Clash  The volatile nature of investment banking confounded former
Bank of America CEO Kenneth D. Lewis as he tried to build a
securities operation. In 2006, his corporate and investment bank
posted $6.03 billion in profit, only to see it plunge 91 percent
a year later amid $5.6 billion in losses tied to trading and
mortgage securities.  “I’ve had all the fun I can stand in investment banking,”
Lewis said Oct. 18, 2007. He blamed bad judgment by his traders
and announced plans to scale back the business, cutting 3,000
jobs. A year later, Lewis reversed course by agreeing to buy
Merrill Lynch for about $50 billion in stock -- only to see some
of its top executives and brokers leave as analysts expressed
concern about a brewing culture clash.  Wachovia faced its own challenges before mortgage losses
forced the sale of the Charlotte-based bank to Wells Fargo in
2008. Wachovia’s investment bank was slammed by $1.52 billion in
trading-account losses in the first nine months of that year.  ‘No Hurry’  Staying in Charlotte was more attractive than “moving all
of those people someplace else or starting over, which I never
even entertained,” said Shrewsberry, who’s based in San
Francisco. “Wachovia and now Wells Fargo, and separately Bank
of America back in the day, took this other approach of making
Charlotte a banking headquarters, and we’ve benefited from
that.”  The bank is in “no hurry” to fill about 300 open seats
and will add staff in areas such as futures clearing and prime
brokerage for hedge funds, Shrewsberry said.  Wells Fargo became the  fourth-largest   U.S. bank  with a
focus on consumers by building the biggest branch network. The
lender hasn’t posted an annual loss in more than a decade.
Executives have broadened the strategy to include investment
banking as nine global securities firms including  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  and Citigroup Inc. announced more than 32,000 job cuts in
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. UBS said it would
close most of its fixed-income operation.  Charlotte Trade-Off  Fixed-income trading has generated profit margins of about
25 percent in recent years, and that may fall to 19 percent as
new regulations related to derivatives clearing and a ban on
proprietary trading are implemented, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
analysts led by Brad Hintz said in a November note to clients.  Investment-banking revenue at Wells Fargo rose 30 percent
in 2012 from a year earlier, and the firm is inching up the
 league tables , even as Stumpf repeatedly has said he couldn’t
care less about rankings. Among U.S. bond underwriters, the bank
was 10th in 2012, excluding its own deals, up from 13th the year
before, Bloomberg data show. Bank of America ranked third the
past two years.  The business could account for 10 percent of Wells Fargo’s
total revenue in two to three years, according to a May estimate
from Deutsche Bank AG. At competitors, the figure is 20 percent
or more.  The “No. 1 trade-off” to choosing a smaller city for a
growing trading operation is finding enough skilled people,
Darin Buelow, a principal at Deloitte Consulting LLP in  Chicago ,
said in an interview.  Nine Fireplaces  “There are going to be certain slices of the banking
industry that will scoff at the idea” of basing a trading
business outside New York, Buelow said. “They just don’t
fundamentally believe that the talent exists anywhere else” in
the U.S.  Recruiters for financial-services jobs said Wells Fargo
should have little trouble luring employees as applicants face
fewer options at other banks and choose Charlotte’s lifestyle
and lower prices. The cost of living for a family of four is
about 44 percent less than in Manhattan, according to ERI
Economic Research Institute, a Redmond, Washington-based
compensation firm.  In Charlotte’s Eastover section, long an outpost of the
wealthy, an 11,300-square-foot home with nine fireplaces, built
on three acres abutting a nature preserve, was listed for $3.45
million in mid-December, according to property website
Trulia.com. By comparison, a 10,900-square-foot  apartment  in New
York’s Tribeca neighborhood with a rooftop gym and enough
storage for 1,000 wine bottles was listed for $24.5 million.  Kobe Steak  Dining also is less expensive. At 5Church, a restaurant
frequented by bankers whose head chef spent time at New York’s
Le Cirque and  Daniel Boulud ’s Cafe Boulud, an American Kobe
Flatiron Steak goes for $40. At New York’s Smith & Wolensky
steakhouse, a sirloin cut costs $54.  That translates into lower compensation, typically the No.
1 expense for securities firms, said Joseph Sorrentino, a
managing director at Steven Hall & Partners, a New York-based
compensation-consulting firm. Wells Fargo also saves by moving
staff from leased-space into a building it owns, and on lower
real estate taxes, consultants said.  Stock brokers in Charlotte with 14 years of experience make
about 16 percent less than they would in Manhattan and
investment managers earn about 14 percent less, according to
ERI. Support staff are sometimes paid as much as 40 percent
less,  Jason Kennedy , CEO of London-based search firm Kennedy
Group, said in an e-mail.  Social Scene  “For those bankers with a family, it might not be about
the money but more about the lifestyle,” said  Michael Karp , CEO
at New York-based executive-search firm Options Group.  Even so, the bank is unlikely to be able to hire everyone
it would like to, said  Moshe Orenbuch , a New York-based bank
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG.  “Will you be able to get everyone you want? Probably
not,” Orenbuch said. “Will you be able to get enough to staff
your operation? Yes.”  For Anik Ray, a former subprime-mortgage-bond strategist
who worked for Wachovia in New York and Charlotte, New York’s
social scene wins out.  “In New York, I had the opportunity to call my buddy who I
used to work with, have a drink with him because he worked at an
asset manager or a hedge fund doing the same thing, and talk to
him one-on-one in person,” said Ray, 30, who took a job with
hedge fund Hildene Capital Management LLC in New York after
leaving Wells Fargo. He’s now a student at the  University of
Michigan ’s Stephen M. Ross School of Business in  Ann Arbor .  No Snow  “You were in touch with as many people, but you have to be
on the road a lot more or have really, really good
relationships,” he said of Charlotte. “That was hard to build
if most of your clients were in New York or San Francisco.”  The travel is made easier with an  airport  that’s “one of
the best parts of living in Charlotte,” he said. Traders can
rent apartments within blocks of the office, and the milder
weather meant no winter snow. Both public and private golf
courses were within 15 minutes driving time from the office,
said Ray, who leased a mid-model Infiniti.  “I miss the car a lot,” he said.  Wall Street heavy-hitters have moved to Charlotte in the
past. Tom White left a job at Morgan Stanley in 1994 to join a
Bank of America predecessor there. He was named head of the
global-markets business in 2007 before moving back to New York
to start City on a Hill Capital LP, a hedge fund. Ian Banwell, a
former chief investment officer at Bank of America, stayed in
Charlotte after leaving the bank and now runs the hedge fund
Round Table Investment Management Co. Banwell serves on the U.S.
Treasury Department committee that advises the government on
debt issuance and was once chairman.  Leaving Charlotte  Executives have also moved out. Curtis Arledge, who served
as Wachovia’s head of fixed-income until April 2008, returned to
New York to join asset manager BlackRock Inc. Arledge is now CEO
of  Bank of New York Mellon Corp .’s investment-management arm,
which oversees $1.4 trillion.  Even before the Merrill Lynch purchase, Bank of America was
staffing up in New York because the pool of talented traders was
so much deeper than in Charlotte, according to a former
executive at the bank. The best traders were reluctant to make
the move south knowing if it didn’t work out, they’d have fewer
job options, the person said.  Bank of America’s exodus to Manhattan accelerated with the
addition of Merrill Lynch senior managers, including Thomas K. Montag, the lender’s co-chief operating officer as well as the
trading and investment-banking chief, who is based in New York.  Discovering Gold  “I haven’t read anything into their decision-making that’s
made us rethink our approach,” said Shrewsberry, whose ranks in
Charlotte have been bolstered by former Bank of America bankers.
“It wasn’t on purpose or part of our hiring plan, but through
the process of looking at qualified people applying for roles,
no surprise, some of them used to work at Bank of America.”  More than 60,000 people in the greater Charlotte area had
financial-services jobs as of Sept. 30, or about 7.2 percent of
the non-farm workforce, according to Bureau of Labor Statistics
data. In New York, the figure was 444,200, or 11.5 percent.  Charlotte’s birth as a financial center came with the 1799
discovery of gold nearby, according to the Chamber of Commerce.
Less than 40 years later the U.S. opened a mint to press coins
made from the precious metal.  Trade Secret  In the past three decades, former Bank of America CEO Hugh McColl, 77, used  North Carolina  National Bank as a foundation to
create the largest U.S. bank with the 1998 purchase of San
Francisco-based BankAmerica Corp. Ed Crutchfield, 71, used a
similar strategy and built First Union National Bank into what
would become Wachovia, the fourth-largest U.S. bank before it
unraveled during the 2008 credit crisis.  Today, Bank of America employees occupy buildings on one
side of Trade Street, which bisects downtown Charlotte, while
Wells Fargo’s are on the other. The city had an  estimated
population  of more than 751,000 in 2011, according to U.S.
Census Bureau data. New York’s population of 8.2 million ranked
first.  Wells Fargo’s new facility started as Wachovia’s
headquarters when planning began in 2004, the year Bank of
America moved traders into a three-story trading floor that
ranks among the largest in  North America . Another building, Bank
of America’s 60-story headquarters, is the city’s largest.  Wells Fargo’s strategy is centered on serving customers
rather than becoming the largest trading operation, said  Tony Plath , a finance professor at the University of North Carolina
in Charlotte. That should allow the company to take more time to
find and attract talented workers, professors and consultants
said. The bank’s ability to do that is the chief question,
Deloitte’s Buelow said.  “Can you find those folks in enough scale to make it
work?” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  