-- Wheat Advances a Third Day as Cold Weather Threatens U.S. Supply
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2013-01-15T13:12:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/wheat-advances-a-third-day-as-cold-weather-threatens-u-s-supply.html
Wheat rose for a third day in
 Chicago , set for the longest winning streak since November, as
cold weather in the U.S. added to concerns over global supply
already cut by higher feed use. Soybeans dropped.  Temperatures in parts of the wheat belt in the U.S., the
world’s largest exporter of the grain, will turn lower over the
next week, especially in northern and eastern areas, DTN said in
a forecast yesterday. The winter-wheat crop, dormant since
November, was already in the  worst  shape since record-keeping
began in 1985.  “The uncertainty in the prospects of the U.S. wheat crop
may induce more volatility in the market, skewed slightly” to
the bullish side, Joyce Liu, an analyst at Phillip Futures Pte
in  Singapore , said in a report today. “Weather concerns include
the lack of snow-cover, leaving the wheat crop exposed.”  Wheat for delivery in March added 0.7 percent to $7.725 a
bushel at 7:02 a.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade. The most-
active contract advanced 19 percent last year. In Paris, milling
wheat for the same delivery month rose 0.5 percent to 250.75
euros ($333.87) a metric ton on NYSE Liffe.  Global  inventories  will drop 9.8 percent to a four-year low
of 176.6 million tons before the 2013 Northern Hemisphere
harvest, below the 176.95 million tons forecast in December, the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture  said Jan. 11. Winter-wheat
growing areas in the U.S. Great Plains from  Texas  to  North
Dakota  are experiencing drought conditions, the U.S. Drought
Monitor shows.  Corn, Soybeans  Corn for delivery in March rose 0.3 percent to $7.26 a
bushel in Chicago, heading for a seventh straight gain. Soybeans
for delivery in the same month advanced 0.9 percent to $14.3025
a bushel after climbing the most since July yesterday.  Topsoil moisture conditions may decline in  Argentina  and
parts of southern Brazil, Commodity Weather Group said today in
an e-mailed report. Central Argentina may have some scattered
showers by Jan. 17 and another weak storm system may arrive late
next week. At least a quarter of Argentina’s corn and soybean
areas may have “minor stress” and more rain will be needed in
early February, according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in  London  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  