-- Whitehaven Back as Target as Tinkler Faces Debt: Real M&A
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-01-16T06:29:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/whitehaven-back-as-target-as-tinkler-faces-debt-real-m-a.html
Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC)  is returning as
a takeover target, less than two years after a company-run
auction failed and its biggest shareholder shelved a buyout.  With  Nathan Tinkler , Whitehaven’s largest shareholder,
struggling to repay creditors and coal prices tumbling last
year, the Sydney-based company’s value relative to net assets
halved since Tinkler began preparing an ill-fated bid. That left
Whitehaven as the cheapest coal producer based in Australia
versus book value, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Now, analysts are projecting coal prices will rebound from
the steepest annual decline in seven years. Whitehaven’s
takeover appeal is also increasing as the A$3.5 billion ($3.7
billion) company obtained financing and government approval for
its biggest new project and expects to almost double production
this fiscal year, according to Nomura Holdings Inc. A buyer
could pay A$4.4 billion, less than Tinkler’s bid last year,
according to Wilson HTM Investment Group. Possible suitors
include Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. and  China Shenhua Energy Co. (1088) ,
said Investec Plc and Patersons Securities Ltd.  “There are plenty of groups out there that are probably
interested,”  Andrew Harrington , an analyst at Patersons in
Sydney, said in a telephone interview. In Australia, Whitehaven
“has the best growth profile of the pure coal plays. You could
count on one hand companies that are in production that haven’t
already been taken over. That’s what would make it attractive.”  Takeover Attempts  Whitehaven “must be on the radar screen for anybody who’s
interested in having a position in the industry that’s not here
at the moment,” the company’s managing director, Tony Haggarty,
said in a Jan. 8 phone interview.  Whitehaven rose  2.4 percent  to A$3.45 in Sydney today, its
biggest gain in nearly a month, as the S&P/ASX 200 Index rose
0.5 percent.  Kate Kerrison, a spokeswoman for Whitehaven, couldn’t
immediately comment about the potential of a sale when reached
by phone. Tim Allerton, a spokesman for Tinkler Group Pty,
declined to comment on plans for Tinkler’s stake in Whitehaven.  A buyer would gain four coal-producing mines in the
Gunnedah Basin of New South Wales state, and a fifth mine is
expected to start production next year. The company also has
enough rail and port capacity to keep up with expanding output.
Whitehaven expects output to nearly double to  9 million  metric
tons in the year ending in June, according to a November
presentation.  A takeover now would follow at least two aborted attempts
since 2010, when Whitehaven put itself up for sale after
receiving uninvited bids. That auction ended in May 2011 after
offers failed to satisfy Whitehaven management.  Coal Outlook  Tinkler, a former electrician who became Whitehaven’s
largest shareholder after the company acquired his Aston
Resources Ltd., offered to buy the company in July. His A$5.20-
a-share bid collapsed the following month as falling coal prices
made financing the A$5.3 billion offer more difficult.  The outlook for  China ’s economy and coal prices have
improved since Tinkler’s approach. The rising price of gas in
the U.S. is dimming its appeal as an alternative for U.S.
utilities that typically rely on coal as a fuel.  After a 19 percent drop in 2012 that was the steepest
annual decline since 2005, power-station coal at the port of
Newcastle is expected to average $98.51 a metric ton this year,
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. The fuel fetched
 $91.10 a metric ton  in the week ended Jan. 11, data from IHS
McCloskey show. The week Tinkler originally made his bid, coal
averaged $85.25.  The company’s progress since then, expanding its Narrabri
mine and nearing production at the Maules Creek project, means
Whitehaven has become a less risky bet for any buyer, said  James Stewart , an analyst at CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. in Sydney.  Relative Value  Key to  Whitehaven’s expansion  was the installation of a so-
called longwall -- a piece of machinery several hundred meters
long that shears off coal underground -- at Narrabri in June.  Meanwhile, the Maules Creek mine, in an area that also
produces barley, chickpeas and sorghum, won environmental
approval in October after an 18-month wait. The first coal from
the fully-funded project is expected in early 2014.  “They’ve got a bunch of boxes ticked,” David Cotterell,
an analyst at Nomura in Sydney, said in a phone interview. “We
know that people have kicked the tires before.”  Whitehaven’s valuation is making it a target, Cotterell
said. At yesterday’s close in Sydney, the company’s stock price
had tumbled 44 percent since last year’s peak in April, even as
the value of its net assets rose. With the shares at A$3.37,
Whitehaven was trading at 1.01 times  book  value, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Tinkler Liquidation  That’s  half the multiple  it fetched in mid-June when
Tinkler was preparing his bid, making Whitehaven now the
cheapest Australian coal miner with a market value of more than
$500 million, the data show.  Australian authorities in December applied to liquidate
eight of Tinkler’s companies, including his soccer and rugby
teams, to recover taxes. He lost ownership of a jet and
helicopter in November over unpaid debts.  His debt struggles have led Whitehaven investors to
speculate that his stake in the coal producer will be seized and
offered to the market, said Andrew Pedler, an analyst at Wilson
in Brisbane.  With control of Tinkler’s stake in question, even traders
who consider Whitehaven to be undervalued are reluctant to buy
shares, Pedler said in a phone interview.  Tinkler’s Troubles  “The idea that Tinkler’s stake may be tipped into the
market is what the greedier investor is concerned with,” he
said. “They might be able to get it cheaper tomorrow. That’s
why they’ve been sitting out the market. Whitehaven is
significantly undervalued.”  Tinkler’s 19.4 percent  stake  is worth A$679 million and
creditors including Farallon Capital Partners, Credit Suisse
Group AG and Kuok Group may seek to take control of it, three
people familiar with the matter told  Bloomberg News  in November.  “Because of Tinkler Group’s internal issues, the
speculation is constantly out there,” Haggarty, managing
director of Whitehaven, said in the phone interview. “Will he
have to sell his Whitehaven stock? It’s the uncertainty around
Tinkler Group that’s causing the problem.”  Tinkler tried and failed to oust the chairman and four
directors, including Haggarty, at Whitehaven’s annual meeting in
October.  Shenhua Energy  Among several potential bidders is Shenhua Energy, China’s
biggest coal producer, Patersons’ Harrington said. The Beijing-
based company’s Watermark project is near rail infrastructure
that accesses the port of  Newcastle , the exit point for coal
mined in the Gunnedah Basin.  Whitehaven said Dec. 19 that while it hadn’t received a bid
from Shenhua, they had held discussions on several occasions
“because of the obvious potential synergies between the assets
of each company in the Gunnedah Basin.”  Yancoal, as  Yanzhou Coal  Mining is known, also exports
through Newcastle, and buying Whitehaven would lower average
production costs for the Shandong-based company, said Colin McLelland, a resources analyst at Investec in Sydney.  Zhang Baocai, Yanzhou Coal’s spokesman, and Meng Jian, a
spokesman at  Shenhua Group , Shenhua Energy’s parent, couldn’t be
reached for comment on a potential acquisition of Whitehaven.  Another potential buyer is Xstrata Plc, the Swiss
commodities trader that’s merging with Glencore International
Plc, said Pedler. Xstrata declined to comment on speculation,
spokeswoman Alison Flynn said.  ‘Obvious Candidate’  Many of the company’s investors are holding shares that are
 worth less  than the price at which they were bought, meaning a
buyer would have to make a “materially” higher offer, said
Nomura’s Cotterell.  Even so, a buyer may be able to acquire the company at a 30
percent premium to yesterday’s market value, for A$4.4 billion,
said Pedler. That would still be less than Tinkler’s failed bid
of A$5.3 billion last year.  Whitehaven, with funding already in place and coal
production set to increase, stands out as a target among
 Australia ’s publicly traded coal producers, Patersons’
Harrington said.  “They are really the most obvious candidate in the listed
space,” he said. “It does have some uniqueness.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  