-- Wholesale Prices in U.S. Fall More Than Forecast on Food
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-01-15T13:59:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/wholesale-prices-in-u-s-fall-more-than-forecast-as-food-drops.html
Wholesale prices in the U.S. dropped
for a third month in December as food costs retreated, capping
the smallest annual gain in four years and indicating there is
little risk of a pickup in inflation.  The  producer price index  declined 0.2 percent following a
0.8 percent decrease the prior month, Labor Department figures
showed today in Washington. Economists projected a 0.1 percent
fall, according to the median of 77 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. For all of 2012, prices paid by companies climbed
1.3 percent, the smallest advance since a drop in 2008 and
compared with an average 3.4 percent gain over the prior decade.  Demand that cooled globally last year from  Europe  to  China 
helped check input costs for producers. The reduced inflationary
pressures mean Federal Reserve policy makers can keep adding
stimulus to spur growth and employment without triggering a
surge in prices.  “We’re not really seeing any major inflation pressures out
there, no matter where you look -- labor market, imports, raw
material prices,” said  Scott Brown , chief economist at Raymond
James & Associates in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida . “It looks like
inflation is still going to be at or below the Fed’s comfort
range,” which suggests “they can keep the gas pedal all the
way down.”  Other reports today showed consumer spending climbed more
than forecast in December and manufacturing in the New York
region contracted for s sixth month in January.  Retail sales rose 0.5 percent following a revised 0.4
percent increase in November that was larger than previously
reported, Commerce Department figures showed in Washington. The
median forecast of 83 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for a 0.2 percent rise. Sales excluding automobiles and gasoline
climbed 0.6 percent for a second month.  Manufacturing Slumps  The Federal Reserve Bank of  New York ’s general economic
index fell to minus 7.8 from a revised minus 7.3 in December.
The median forecast of 54 economists in a Bloomberg survey
called for a reading of zero, which signals no change in
conditions. Readings of less than zero signal contraction in New
York, northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  Stock-index futures held earlier losses after the reports.
The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in
March fell 0.4 percent to 1,458.5 at 8:56 a.m. in New York as
concern about talks to raise the government’s debt ceiling
outweighed investor optimism over corporate earnings.  Projections for producer prices in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from a decrease of 0.8 percent to an increase of 0.3
percent.  Core Prices  The  core measure , which excludes volatile food and energy
prices, rose 0.1 percent for a second month, less than the
projected 0.2 percent increase. It increased 2 percent last year
rising 3 percent in 2011.  The Fed’s preferred price measure, which is tied to
 consumer spending  patterns, rose 1.4 percent in the 12 months to
November, according to data from the Commerce Department.  Central bankers in December adopted a more flexible
approach to their interest-rate outlook, saying borrowing costs
will stay low “at least as long” as unemployment remains above
6.5 percent and if the Fed predicts inflation of no more than
2.5 percent one or two years in the future. That language
replaced an earlier link between the rate outlook and calendar
dates. Unemployment was 7.8 percent in December and November.  The drop in the producer-price index last month was led by
a 0.9 percent decrease in food expenses, the biggest retreat
since May 2011. The cost of energy fell 0.3 percent as gasoline
prices declined 1.7 percent, the report showed.  The cost of capital goods fell 0.1 percent last month after
a 0.2 percent increase in November.  Production Line  Price pressures were less muted down the production line,
according to today’s data. The cost of intermediate goods
increased 0.3 percent. Crude prices climbed 2.5 percent on crude
energy materials.  Subdued input costs are good news for businesses reluctant
to raise prices. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB commodity
index has  fallen  7.1 percent through yesterday from a six-month
high on Sept. 14.  “For 2013, we expect neutral earnings impact from raw
materials,” David Meline, chief financial officer of  3M Co. (MMM) ,
said during a Dec. 12 conference call. Fifty percent of the cost
of goods the  St. Paul , Minnesota-based manufacturer sells is in
raw materials, he said. “The ultimate outcome will be somewhat
dependent on the path of economic growth.”  Producer prices are one of three monthly inflation gauges
reported by the Labor Department. The  consumer price index , due
tomorrow, was little changed in December after dropping 0.3
percent the prior month, according to the median estimate in the
Bloomberg survey. The cost of goods imported into the U.S. fell
0.1 percent last month, Labor Department data showed Jan. 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  