-- Whole Foods Co-CEO Says Capitalism Needs to Be Redefined
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-01-15T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/whole-foods-co-ceo-says-capitalism-needs-to-be-redefined.html
Few CEOs would say too many
companies “focus on solely maximizing profits.”  Then again,  Whole Foods Market Inc. (WFM)  founder John Mackey is
no ordinary corporate chief. He’s a self-styled “conscious”
capitalist and has a new book in which he tells all about it.  “The time is now to redefine capitalism if we want to
continue to flourish as a society and to reverse the decline
that we are currently in,” said Mackey, whose book --  yes,
“Conscious Capitalism” -- comes out today.  Mackey and his co-author, a Bentley University marketing
professor named Raj Sisodia, discuss ways to create value and
lift people from poverty. Mackey’s bottom line: Making money
need not be a zero-sum game.  “Let’s face it, most businesses’ purposes have been
distorted,” he said in an e-mail interview.  Mackey, 59, has long been a maverick. In 1978, the college
dropout opened a natural-foods store in Austin with then
girlfriend Renee Lawson Hardy. They called it Safer Way, a spoof
on  Safeway Inc. (SWY) , which operated grocery stores nearby. Two years
later, Mackey and Hardy partnered with two other grocers and
merged their stores to form the original Whole Foods.  In 1984, the company began expanding beyond Austin,
gobbling up regional grocery stores and chains until it became
the largest natural foods store in the U.S. There are more than
340 Whole Foods locations in the U.S.,  Canada  and the U.K. Along
the way, Mackey has funded small farmers and food makers,
educated customers about organic food and over-fished species
and created a preservative-free house brand.  Money Machine  None of this prevented him from turning Whole Foods into a
money machine. Sales rose 16 percent to $11.7 billion in the
year ended in September, the third straight year Whole Foods
generated revenue growth of at least 12 percent. Since going
public in 1992, the shares have soared more than fivefold.  Mackey says he practices what he preaches at Whole Foods by
capping executive pay at 19 times the company’s average hourly
wage. For the four years up to 2011, he earned $1 in salary and
received no bonus. Whole Foods has no corporate jet.  Mackey hasn’t entirely escaped controversy over the years.
In 2007 he was outed anonymously criticizing competitors online.
At the time, Whole Foods said Mackey made the postings under an
alias to avoid having his comments associated with the company
and to avoid having others place too much emphasis on his
remarks.  In the book, Mackey and Sisodia laud  Costco Wholesale (COST) 
Corp., Google Inc. and  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  for also
practicing conscious capitalism.  “Corporations are widely seen as greedy, selfish,
exploitative and untrustworthy,” they write.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  