-- Why 1913 Garment-Worker Strike Was Among the Oddest Ever
-- B y   M a r c   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-01-15T16:52:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/why-1913-garment-worker-strike-was-among-the-oddest-ever.html
It was one of the best-organized
work stoppages in U.S. history. It was also one of the oddest,
for the strike that briefly crippled the women’s clothing
industry in  New York  100 years ago this week was backed by
factory owners as enthusiastically as by the union.  Work in New York’s garment factories didn’t pay much in
1913. The women who sewed seams on dresses and underwear,
working on a piece-rate basis, typically took home less than $5
for a 56-hour week. And bosses in many shops reclaimed part of
that pay by fining workers for showing up late or for “damage”
to the goods.  Most of the factory owners, like the majority of their
workers, were Jewish immigrants from Eastern Europe, and they
were sensitive to complaints about low pay and poor conditions.
But they were also aware that in the labor-intensive garment
industry, wages accounted for a large share of production costs,
and a factory that was too generous couldn’t compete with those
that paid less.  The International Ladies’ Garment Workers Union (or ILGWU)
had dealt with this issue before. A series of bitter strikes in
1909 and 1910 had culminated in a walkout by 60,000 workers who
made women’s coats and jackets. Eventually, the union and a
manufacturer’s association accepted a proposal by Boston lawyer
Louis Brandeis, a leader of progressive opinion. Brandeis
suggested a more cooperative approach to labor-management
relations, including a joint committee to monitor safety
conditions, another to hear workers’ grievances, and a board to
arbitrate disputes between employers and the union.  New Model  As part of the pact, known as the Protocol of Peace,
factory owners agreed to hire workers directly and abandon
“inside subcontracting,” a practice that allowed an owner to
escape responsibility for working conditions by arranging for
foremen to engage the workers and produce the goods.  The protocol offered a new model for both union and
management. But it applied only to one part of the garment
industry: women’s coat manufacturing. In other sectors,
employees still earned miserly pay in unsafe workplaces;
nonunion shops undercut wages; and union shops were subject to
wildcat strikes. Some factory owners were willing, even eager,
to sign union contracts, but only if they could be assured that
their competitors would operate on the same terms. The ILGWU
itself, meanwhile, faced increasingly harsh attacks from members
and left-wing organizers who thought it wasn’t sufficiently
militant.  The strike of January 1913 was designed to solve all three
of these problems at once. It was a highly choreographed affair,
with each step agreed to in advance by union leaders and
employer organizations. First, the union would call a general
strike against all dress, shirtwaist and women’s-underwear
manufacturers in New York. Then it would announce the terms on
which it would settle. The members of the employer associations
would accept those terms. Then ILGWU members would return to
work at factories that had settled, but would remain on strike
against other factories. When those manufacturers sought to
settle, they would be told they must first join an employer
association.  In this way, the entire industry in New York would be
unionized, with every manufacturer in each sector covered by a
single contract.  The strike unfolded as scripted. On Jan. 14, 1913, ILGWU
members voted overwhelmingly to strike. They walked out the next
day. On Jan. 16, the parties negotiated a settlement almost
identical to the Protocol of Peace, which members of the various
employer organizations accepted the following day. On Jan. 18,
amid much fanfare, it was signed. And on Jan. 20, the union
shops went back to work. Nonunion shops still faced picket
lines, and their orders from retailers that had pledged to buy
from union shops were cut off. One by one, they agreed to join
an employer association and thereby accept the contract.  Greater Significance  This dramatic episode brought raises, especially for the
lowest-paid workers, as well as a shorter workweek. Its greater
significance, though, was institutionalizing more of the
workplace cooperation that Brandeis had advocated. Labor-
management health and safety committees vastly improved
conditions in New York’s factories. When a shop won a contract
for a new style -- which happened often in the garment trade --
a joint committee would determine what piece rate the workers
should receive, resolving a perennial point of conflict. If a
manufacturer wished to send work out to a contractor, the
contractor had to register with the union, ensuring the workers
would receive union wages.  The ILGWU’s power would wax and wane for the next two
decades, until, in the 1930s, it became one of the largest
unions in the country. Although its militant wing was loath to
admit as much, support from manufacturers and retailers was
critical to the union’s success. Many employers considered
themselves socially responsible and favored higher wages and
improved working conditions. The women’s garment strike of 1913
sought to achieve those social goals by enforcing labor-
management cooperation in an intensely competitive industry.  ( Marc Levinson ’s books include “The Box: How the Shipping
Container Made the World Smaller and the World Economy Bigger.”
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Marc Levinson at
 marclevinson1@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 