-- World Bank Cuts Growth Forecasts as Developed Nations Lose Steam
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-01-16T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/world-bank-cuts-growth-forecasts-as-developed-nations-lose-steam.html
The  World Bank  cut its global growth
forecast for this year as austerity measures, high unemployment
and low business confidence weigh on economies in developed
nations.  The Washington-based bank yesterday projected the world
economy will expand 2.4 percent, down from a June forecast of 3
percent, after growing 2.3 percent in 2012. It halved its
forecast for  Japan , cut the U.S. projection by 0.5 percentage
point and predicted a second year of contraction in the euro
region. It also lowered projections for  emerging markets  led by
 Brazil ,  India  and  Mexico .  “Overall, the global economic environment remains fragile
and prone to further disappointment, although the balance of
risks is now less skewed to the downside than it has been in
recent years,” the World Bank said in its twice-yearly report.  Developed economies failed to gain steam in 2012 even after
measures to stem the  European debt crisis  helped boost financial
markets around the world. Uncertainties surrounding a U.S.
political agreement on spending cuts and Japan’s diplomatic
tensions with  China  may weigh further on the global economy just
as emerging markets recover from one of their slowest growth
rates of the past decade.  “What we’re seeing is the recovery that we anticipated in
June being pushed a little further back in time, beginning
closer to the end of the first quarter, into the second quarter
of 2013,”  Andrew Burns , the World Bank’s director of global
economic trends, said on a conference call.  Bloomberg Survey  The bank is more pessimistic than economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  from Jan. 4 to Jan. 9, who see global expansion
of 3.2 percent this year and 3.8 percent in 2014, according to
the median of 41 forecasts. The Washington-based bank expects
3.1 percent next year, compared with 3.3 percent in its June
forecast.  The MSCI All-Country World  Index (MXWO)  has jumped about 17
percent since the end of 2011.  In the U.S., weakness in manufacturing is damping the
effects of advances in housing and household spending. Corporate
investment slumped late last year as companies waited for
lawmakers to resolve a debate over higher taxes and cuts in
 government spending  slated for the end of 2012.  Industrial production unexpectedly fell in the euro area in
November and in Japan the government announced a new stimulus
plan to bolster growth.  “In what is likely to remain a difficult external
environment characterized by slow and potentially volatile high-
income country growth over the next several years, strong growth
in developing countries is not guaranteed,” according to the
bank.  U.S. Budget  Failure to agree on a fiscal plan for the medium term in
the U.S., leading to regular political wrangling, could shave
domestic growth by 2.3 percentage points and global expansion by
1.4 percentage points, the bank said. Other risks include
renewed investors’ concern about  Europe ’s debt, an abrupt
decline in China’s investment rate and an interruption to global
oil supplies.  “Many  developing countries  would be well advised to
gradually restore depleted fiscal and monetary buffers, so as to
ensure that their economies can respond as resiliently as they
did during the 2008/09 crisis should a further significant
external shock arise,” the bank said.  The Washington-based lender now sees developed economies
growing 1.3 percent this year, the same as last year, compared
with a 1.9 percent forecast in June. Developing countries are
projected to expand 5.5 percent, less than the 5.9 percent
forecast in June.  Euro Area  The U.S. is now forecast to grow 1.9 percent. The euro area
will contract 0.1 percent compared with a growth of 0.7 percent
expected seven months ago. Japan will expand 0.8 percent, a
slower pace than the 1.5 percent seen in June.  China’s growth outlook was cut to 8.4 percent from 8.6
percent, and India’s was reduced to 6.1 percent from 6.9
percent. The 3.4 percent forecast for Brazil was lowered from
4.2 percent and Mexico is now seen expanding 3.3 percent instead
of 4 percent.  The price of risk reflected in financial markets declined
worldwide after measures that include the creation of a
permanent European bailout fund and the  European Central Bank ’s
commitment to do whatever it takes to protect the euro, the
report said.  The effect was felt in emerging markets that saw a drop in
borrowing costs and a rebound in capital flows in the second
half of 2012. Inflows will continue to grow this year with the
bank estimating an increase to $1.13 trillion from $1 trillion
in 2012.  In contrast to richer counterparts, growth in developing
economies picked up in the third quarter after a second-quarter
lull, with retail sales and industrial production gaining steam.
Many countries are also expected to benefit from the lagged
effect of interest-rate cuts enacted last year, the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  