-- Yellow Tail Maker Looks to Bottle Abroad Amid Debt Terms Breach
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-01-15T01:33:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/yellow-tail-maker-looks-to-bottle-abroad-amid-debt-terms-breach.html
Casella Wines Pty. , maker of the
third-best selling U.S. wine brand Yellow Tail, is looking at
bottling so-called bulk wine overseas to cut costs after
breaching terms on debt.  “Bulk we could certainly do, and that’s part of what we’re
looking at,” Managing Director John Casella said in a phone
interview.  Closely held Casella, which accounts for one in five wine
bottles leaving  Australia , intends to conclude talks in about
two weeks with National Australia Bank Ltd., after recording its
first annual loss in at least 20 years, the managing director
said. The loss pushed earnings below a threshold the bank
monitors to assess its ability to pay interest, he said.  “Bottling overseas would carry risks,” Casella said.
Local operations would become cheaper again should the
Australian currency decline, he said. “The danger is you do it
and you’re in no man’s land--you’re over there when you should
be here.”  Australian wine companies including Accolade Wines Ltd.,
owned by Champ Private Equity, and the largest listed group
 Treasury Wine Estates Ltd. (TWE)  have moved to bottle some of their
product in end-markets to earn more profit margin on exports
that have been hit by the strength of the local dollar, the
strongest-performing major currency against the  U.S. dollar  in
the three years ended Dec. 31.  Bulk Chardonnay  Exports of chardonnay in so-called bulk containers climbed
37 percent to 117 million liters in 2012, government-backed
industry body Wine Australia said yesterday. Total export volume
rose 3 percent, while the value of overseas sales fell 2 percent
to A$1.85 billion ($1.95 billion) as lower-priced bulk wine
outpaced more expensive bottled exports.  Casella, founded in 1969 by Sicilian immigrants and based
in Griffith, New South Wales state, fell into a loss after hedge
contracts written when the dollar was weaker expired over the
past year, Casella said.  “We had a really strong hedge book that ran out. I think
we did quite well to get this far,” he said. “We really didn’t
expect this  exchange rate  to stay so high for so long.”  Foreign currency hedges with National Australia worth $150
million at the end of June 2011 had fallen to $45 million a year
later, according to the company’s annual report. That’s now
close to zero, apart from “odds and ends,” Casella said.  Covenant Breach  The company hadn’t been granted a formal waiver for its
covenant breach and its borrowings are secured against its
assets, according to Casella’s annual report.  “The fundamentals are still the same as what they were,”
he said. “The only issue is exchange and margin pressure as a
result of those issues.”  Annual sales fell 2.8 percent from a year earlier to A$335
million, according to the report filed in December. Net income
dropped from a A$45 million profit to a A$30 million loss, the
results show.  Casella has announced plans for a more expensive wine to
sell at around $10 a bottle and entered a potential beer joint
venture with  Coca-Cola Amatil Ltd. (CCL)  via a convertible loan from
the soft-drink bottler as it seeks to minimize the exposure of
its low-priced wine to the strength of Australia’s currency.  The loss was driven by a A$30 million writedown of loans,
according to the report.  Net debt was A$118 million as of June 30, based on the
value of the company’s borrowings minus its cash, according to
the report. Borrowing costs came to A$6.1 million, against
operating cash flows of A$59 million, the data show.  Casella had A$125 million in bank bills at the end of June
as well as an overdraft drawn to A$7.1 million, the data show.  “We’ve been squeezed by the exchange rate,” John Casella
said. “I don’t see there’s any Australian company that hasn’t
been squeezed by that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  