-- Renren Drives Slump on U.S. Debt Concern: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-01-15T22:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-15/youku-drives-slump-on-u-s-debt-concerns-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  dropped in  New York ,
led by Internet companies, on concern a failure by U.S.
lawmakers to raise the debt ceiling will hurt the economy of
 China ’s second-largest trading partner.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. slid 0.5 percent to 101.49 yesterday,
trimming its gain this year to 2.3 percent. Social networking
website  Renren Inc. (RENN)  and online retailer  E-Commerce China
Dangdang Inc. (DANG)  dropped the most in a week.  China Unicom (Hong
Kong) Ltd. (CHU)  slipped to a one-week low after Fitch Ratings said
the nation’s proposal to open up telecommunications networks
will reduce the operator’s profitability.  Melco Crown
Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  climbed to the highest level since 2007.  The China-US measure shrugged off the 0.6 percent advance
in the Shanghai Composite Index of domestic Chinese shares as
U.S. President  Barack Obama  said the world’s biggest economy
faced fiscal and social calamity if the $16.4 trillion debt
limit isn’t lifted.  Congressional Republicans  are calling for
spending cuts in exchange for the higher debt threshold.  Chinese U.S.-listed equities “reacted negatively to a lack
of progress in debt ceiling talks,” Frederick Ziegel, an
analyst who covers Chinese companies listed in the U.S. at
brokerage Topeka Capital Markets Inc., said by phone in New
York. “That has some indirect influence on Chinese companies
traded in the U.S. People want to see some progress for sure.”  Export Market  The U.S. replaced the European Union as China’s largest
export market in 2012, Zheng Yuesheng, head of China’s customs
statistics said at a press briefing on Jan. 10 in Beijing. The
two markets together accounted for one-third of China’s overseas
sales last year, customs data showed.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., was little changed at $41.28
yesterday, after rallying 0.5 percent in the previous day. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 index  added 0.1 percent in New York after
a rally in retail sales overshadowed debt ceiling concerns.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  was little changed
yesterday at a five-month high of 12,006.82, while the  Shanghai
Composite (SHCOMP)  jumped to 2,325.68, the highest level since June 1.  American depositary receipts of Renren slid 3.2 percent to
$3.64, cutting its increase this year to 5.5 percent. Beijing-
based Dangdang, China’s biggest online book retailer, declined
3.5 percent to $4.62, its 2013 advance to 11 percent.  Youku
Tudou Inc. (YOKU) , China’s biggest video website operator, fell 2.3
percent from a seven-month high to $22.06. The Beijing-based
company’s first loss in four days trimmed its jump this year to
21 percent.  ‘Step Back’  “We had a great run since the beginning of the year, and
people are taking a step back and reevaluate the growth
opportunity here,” Derrick Irwin, a portfolio manager at the
Wells Fargo Advantage  Emerging Markets  Equity Fund, said by
phone from  Boston  yesterday.  ADRs of China Unicom, the nation’s second-largest wireless
network carrier, slid 2.3 percent to $16.78, the lowest level in
a week.  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the biggest wireless operator,
dropped 1.5 percent to $57.06. China Telecom Corp., the nation’s
largest fixed-line phone company, trimmed 0.6 percent to $56.27.  China’s Ministry of Industry and  Information Technology  has
proposed a two-year trial to allow Chinese non-state owned
companies to purchase mobile network bandwidth from existing
operators and rebrand the services to end users, according to a
posting on its website on Jan. 8.  The proposed network opening signals the beginning of a
series of regulatory moves that may add pressure on the existing
operators’ profitability,  Fitch Ratings  said in a Jan. 14
statement.  Solars Slip  Baoding-based  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE) , China’s
fourth-largest solar-panel maker, sank for a fourth day, losing
2.4 percent to a one-week low of $2.9.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the
second-largest manufacturer of wafers globally, lost 2 percent
to $2 in New York, also extending its slump into a fourth day.  A “secular decline” in solar pricing will continue,
driving down the stocks of the producers, Aaron Chew, a New
York-based senior analyst at Maxim Group LLC said in a research
note yesterday.  China Lodging Group Ltd. (HTHT) , a budget hotel chain based in
Shanghai, fell 3.5 percent to $18.14. Trading volume on the
stock was 1.8 times the daily average over the past three
months, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  The stock retreated after a four-day rally that drove the
stock to a six-month high. Investors should “take profits” on
China Lodging stock at these levels, Ella Ji, a New York-based
analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. who has rated China Lodging the
equivalent of buy since 2011, said on Jan. 14. Business in the
hospitality sector may not reflect China’s economic rebound
until after the first quarter, Ji said by phone.  Melco Gains  Melco, which operates gambling facilities in Macau, the
only Chinese city where casinos are legal, climbed 3.3 percent
to $19.81 in New York, the highest close since February 2007.
Its ADRs, each representing three underlying shares in the
company, traded 3.2 percent above its  Hong Kong  shares, the
widest  premium  since Jan. 2.  Credit Suisse Group AG raised Melco’s price estimate by 43
percent yesterday to $25.4, maintaining the stock’s rating of
outperform, or the equivalent of buy.  Thirty-day volatility  on the  China-US measure index fell
to 17 yesterday from 17.3 the previous day, and compared with an
average of 21.6 over the past year. The  Bloomberg Chinese
Reverse Mergers Index (CHINARTO) , which tracks a basket of companies that
gained U.S. listings after buying firms that already trade,
advanced 0.5 percent to 78.73 on its second day of gains, rising
4.2 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  