-- 
‘Death’s Head’ Loomed Over RBS’s Goodwin, Darling Memoir Says

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-09-06T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/-death-s-head-loomed-over-rbs-chief-goodwin-darling-writes-in-his-memoir.html
Fred Goodwin , the chief executive
officer of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , sat under a
painting entitled “Death’s Head” as he negotiated the 2008
bailout of the lender with  Alistair Darling , the former U.K.
chancellor of the exchequer wrote in his memoir.  The canvas by Scottish painter  John Bellany  hung behind
Goodwin and the heads of other troubled British banks as the
“deathly centerpiece” above the conference table in the
chancellor’s Downing Street office in London as Darling and his
officials worked on plans that would effectively nationalize
parts of the banking system.  “I am sure it was simply coincidence that Sir Fred chose
to sit there,” Darling wrote in the book, “ Back from the
Brink ,” charting his three years as chancellor that was
published in London today. “Over the next seven days, other
chief executives and their chairmen would take turns to sit on
that seat, entirely by chance, I’m sure. Curiously, not one of
them survived the crisis.”  Goodwin resigned after presiding over the biggest loss in
U.K. corporate history and the Edinburgh-based bank’s collapse
following the acquisition of ABN Amro Holding NV. He later
became the focus of public scrutiny after being awarded a
703,000-pound ($1.1 million) annual pension.  Darling organized liquidity programs and credit guarantees
that saddled taxpayers with more than 1 trillion pounds of
liabilities at the height of the financial crisis. RBS and
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  required a 65.8 billion-pound
government rescue after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. roiled financial markets worldwide.  ‘Footnote’  The anecdote shows how the chancellor clung to his sense of
humor as he pushed through the British government’s biggest
intervention in financial markets. Without the crisis, Darling
wrote, he would have “ended my career as a footnote in
political history.”  “I had to change from supporting character to being one of
the main actors on the political stage, something I was never
really comfortable with,” Darling wrote.  “The biggest decision of them all would have to be made on
a wet Tuesday morning, on Oct. 11, 2008, when I took a call from
Sir Tom McKillop, chairman of RBS,” Darling wrote. “He told me
his bank would collapse within hours. What was I going to do
about it?”  The 352-page volume also describes how Darling fended off
attempts by Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  to fire him and of his
difficult relations with the “incredibly stubborn”  Bank of
England  governor,  Mervyn King .  Legal Advice  Darling said his efforts to tackle the financial crisis had
been hampered by disagreements with King, whom he considered not
reappointing for a second term. He sought legal advice on
whether he could force the Bank of  England  to take action during
the financial crisis.  Darling was told that it “might be legally possible, but
that there would be wider implications,” including a
“disastrous” public row with King.  Darling’s book also recalls his worsening relationship with
Brown, as the two failed to reach a common policy on tackling a
 budget deficit  that ballooned because of the government’s
bailout of British banks and the recession.  Darling said Brown “seemed to have no conception of the
effects of his sometimes appalling behavior on those close to
him.”  In 2009, as the  Labour Party  prepared to face voters the
following year, Darling fought with Brown over the need to admit
that the government would have to cut public spending to rein in
the deficit. Brown wanted more spending, even as Standard &
Poors warned it might cut the U.K.’s credit rating.  ‘Angry Exchanges’  “Gordon and I had some very angry exchanges,” Darling
wrote. “He told me I was undermining him and it had to stop. I
certainly was not, I said.”  Darling wrote that Brown appointed him as chancellor with a
view to eventually replacing him with  Ed Balls , who was instead
put in charge of education. Darling said part of him was happy
to go by June 2009, but part of him wanted to fight on. In the
end, “a larger part did not want to be forced out at this stage
and in this way.”  Darling refused to be moved to another position in the
Cabinet and would have been too costly to sack politically
because of his enhanced reputation during the banking crisis.
The former chancellor said he failed to take the same attitude
to his then boss during the string of failed coups and
ministerial resignations that would plague Brown during his last
year in office.  “When people asked me subsequently why I never joined in
the plots to remove Gordon when he was prime minister, the
answer I gave is that I had, and still have, a residual loyalty
to him which I found impossible to overcome,” Darling wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  