-- 
H&R Block Seeks Approval to Acquire Software Maker

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-06T22:37:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/h-r-block-asks-trial-judge-to-let-it-buy-taxact-maker-over-u-s-objections.html
H&R Block Inc. (HRB)  asked a federal judge
to reject U.S. attempts to block its purchase of the owner of
TaxAct products, arguing the deal will improve its products and
lead to low-cost alternatives for its customers.  In a trial in federal court in Washington today, H&R Block,
the biggest U.S. tax-preparation firm, said the  Justice
Department  was mischaracterizing evidence and using sound bites
from internal documents in its request for an injunction against
the company’s acquisition of closely held 2SS Holdings Inc.  “H&R Block is paying $287 million for TaxAct because it
needs to lower its costs and become more competitive,” H&R
Block’s lawyer J. Robert Robertson told U.S. District Judge
Beryl Howell, who will decide whether the deal, valued at
$287.5 million, violates antitrust law.  The Justice Department said the acquisition, announced in
October, would eliminate a company that has competed
aggressively with  Kansas City , Missouri-based H&R Block and
“disrupted” the U.S. digital do-it-yourself tax-preparation
market through low pricing and product innovation.  Joseph Wayland, deputy assistant attorney general of the
Justice Department’s antitrust division, told the judge that the
transaction would leave H&R Block and  Intuit Inc. (INTU) , whose
TurboTax product is the most widely used digital and online
software for tax preparation, as the two dominant companies in
the market for digital consumer tax preparation.  Price Erosion  “The merger will likely lead to price increases and
coordination between the remaining competitors,” Wayland said.
H&R Block e-mails and other internal documents indicated the
company was seeking to eliminate price erosion from TaxAct, he
said.  The department asked Howell to ignore H&R Block’s arguments
that digital tax preparation products are part of a larger
industry that includes in-store tax preparation and those who
file their taxes by hand and without assistance from
accountants.  Last year, as many as 40 million taxpayers used digital
software products to prepare and file federal and state income
taxes, the department said in the lawsuit. Three companies
account for 90 percent of all sales of digital, do-it-yourself
tax preparation products, the department said.  The purchase of TaxAct by H&R Block would combine the
second and third-largest providers of these products, according
to the department’s complaint.  17 Competitors  H&R Block said in court papers that the department
“ignores the contours of today’s tax preparation industry,”
which it said includes more than 17 competitors as well as an
Internal Revenue Service-sponsored website “promoting
competition and free offers to the public.”  H&R Block said that the department isn’t considering the
company’s rivalry with Intuit, which Robertson said has been
targeting H&R Block’s retail store customers in television and
online advertisements.  “That war is in the real world,” said Robertson, a
partner at  Hogan Lovells  in Washington. “The government wants
us to ignore it. We can’t, it’s in the market.”  The department has sought to block several transactions it
viewed as anticompetitive this year. Last week it filed a
lawsuit against AT&T Inc.’s proposed $39 billion takeover of
wireless carrier T-Mobile USA Inc.  On May 12, it sued to block  VeriFone Systems Inc. (PAY)  from
buying  Hypercom Corp. (HYC)  saying the proposed $485 million deal
would hurt competition in the market for point-of-sale
terminals. VeriFone reached a settlement with the department
last month after agreeing to sell Hypercom’s U.S. point-of-sale
terminal business.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  on
May 16 abandoned their plan to buy NYSE Euronext after the
department said it would challenge the deal in court. Had the
transaction been completed, Nasdaq OMX would have gained a
monopoly on stock listings in the U.S.  The case is U.S. v. H&R Block, 1:11-cv-00948, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 