-- 
4SC Says Compound for Cancer, Autoimmune Disease Met Mid-Stage Study Goal

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-09-06T15:45:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/4sc-says-compound-for-cancer-autoimmune-disease-met-mid-stage-study-goal.html
4SC AG (VSC)  said its experimental cancer
treatment met the main goal of a mid-stage clinical trial in
patients with Hodgkin’s lymphoma, prompting a search for a
partner to continue development.  The pill, called resminostat, showed anti-tumor activity in
about a third of the patients who had a relapsing form of the
disease, the Planegg-Martinsried, Germany-based company said in
a statement today. A total of 33 patients were studied, enough
to determine the product’s efficacy, the drugmaker said.  Resminostat is also being tested in  liver cancer  and
colorectal cancer. Data from a liver cancer trial, the second of
three stages of human trials required for regulatory approval,
is expected this year and early-stage data for colorectal cancer
is due next year. 4SC acquired the drug along with a portfolio
of cancer compounds from Nycomed Holding A/S in 2008 for 14
million euros ($19.7 million).  “We are developing quite a broad strategy for this drug,”
Chief Executive Officer Ulrich Dauer said in a phone interview
today.  4SC shares closed up 5 cents, or 3.4 percent, at 1.63 euros
at 5:30 p.m. in  Frankfurt  trading.  The company sold the Japanese rights to resminostat to
Yakult Honsha Co. in April for an upfront payment of 6 million
euros. 4SC could receive 127 million euros plus double-digit
royalties from the Japanese company if the medicine is approved
for sale.  Potential Partners  4SC is in talks with drugmakers to develop and
commercialize the product for all three forms of cancer in other
parts of the world, Dauer said. The company declined to say how
many companies are involved or identify potential partners.  Hodgkin’s lymphoma is a cancer of the lymph system, which
is part of the body’s immune response. Cells grow abnormally,
limiting the ability to fight infection. Resminostat is part of
a group of medicines that work by changing the genetic structure
of tumor cells to cause their destruction.  The drug is being given to Hodgkin’s lymphoma patients who
have failed to benefit from two other types of treatments. About
a fifth of those with the disease have a 17 percent chance of
living five years, Dauer said. Patients in this study, called
Saphire, had already received several forms of treatment, and a
little more than half had received stem-cell transplantation
before taking resminostat, the company said.  Side effects such as nausea and anemia were manageable by
adjusting dosage or treating symptoms, 4SC said. The company
will discuss further studies of the drug with European and U.S.
regulatory authorities, Dauer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 