-- 
Macquarie Cuts Earnings Forecasts For Trading Units Citing Market Turmoil

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 
2011-09-07T07:21:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/macquarie-cuts-earnings-forecasts-for-trading-units-citing-market-turmoil.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) , Australia’s
largest investment bank, cut earnings forecasts for the trading
and corporate advisory divisions that generate almost half of
its profits due to volatile markets.  Earnings at its fixed income, currencies and commodities
unit will be lower in the year ending March 31, down from a July
28 forecast that profit would be “broadly in line” with the
previous year, the Sydney-based bank said in a statement today.
The lender also jettisoned a prediction that its securities and
capital businesses will boost earnings.  Increased turmoil in global markets, which have been roiled
by  Europe ’s debt crisis and concern that the U.S. economic
recovery is faltering, are challenging Chief Executive Officer
Nicholas Moore’s expansion plans. Market conditions are
“particularly uncertain,” Macquarie said today. The MSCI World
Index of equities has shed 11 percent since the end of July.  “Unless they really go hard after the cost base, which
diminishes their ability to recover when things do pick up,
they’re really in the hands of the markets,” said Victor German, a Sydney-based analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. with a
“buy” rating on Macquarie.  Shares of Macquarie rose 1.6 percent to A$23.53 in Sydney,
curbing this year’s decline to 36 percent.  Australia ’s benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 Index has dropped 12 percent this year.  Global Turmoil  Financial stocks have slumped around the world since
Macquarie’s annual general meeting in late July, when it
published its previous outlook.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  has
tumbled 23 percent, and a Bloomberg index of European financial
stocks fell to the lowest level since March 2009.  Deutsche Bank AG CEO  Josef Ackermann  said Sept. 5 that
conditions in the stock and bond markets remind him of late
2008. The collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September
2008 froze credit markets and forced taxpayers to bailout banks
from Washington and  London  to Berlin.  Macquarie reiterated a July forecast that it expects an
“improved result” for the full year if market conditions for
the remainder of the period aren’t worse than the previous year.
The full-year result will be boosted by a payment from  Map
Group (MAP) , an operator of airports in which Macquarie holds a 22.4
percent stake, according to Bloomberg data.  Full-year earnings at the securities and capital units will
be “broadly in line” with the previous year, Macquarie said
today. On July 28, the bank predicted those divisions would
generate increased earnings.  Macquarie’s main trading and investment banking units
accounted for 49 percent of the firm’s operating income in the
year ended March 2011, company reports show.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  