-- 
Afghanistan’s Hajigak Iron Ore Deposit Draws Bids From India, Iran, Canada

-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-09-07T07:31:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/afghanistan-gets-india-iran-canada-bids-for-iron-ore-correct-.html
Afghanistan’s richest iron-ore
deposit drew bids from an Indian government-backed group, two
Iranian contenders and Canada’s  Kilo Goldmines Ltd. (KGL) , an Afghan
official said.  Afghanistan’s mines ministry  opened the bids yesterday for
the estimated 1.8 billion metric tons of ore at Hajigak, 100
kilometers (60 miles) west of Kabul, said Abdul Jalil Jumriany,
a ministry director-general. The tender is the biggest on offer
in a country that the U.S. government estimated last year holds
$1 trillion in untapped minerals.  Seven Indian steel and mining companies, led by state-owned
 Steel Authority of India Ltd. (SAIL)  and  NMDC Ltd. (NMDC) , offered a bid that
is part of an effort by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s
government for a bigger role in a nearby country whose stability
it calls essential.  In neighboring Pakistan, the politically powerful army
“would have concerns about  India  having such a new role” in
Afghanistan, said Bashir Ahmed, a senior fellow and retired army
brigadier at the Institute of Regional Studies in Islamabad.  “Many in the Pakistani establishment are quite sensitive
to India’s presence in Afghanistan,” seeing it as a security
threat, he said.  The Indian group includes state-owned Rashtriya Ispat Nigam
Ltd., and private-sector companies  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL) ,  Jindal Steel
& Power Ltd. (JSP) , Monnet Ispat Ltd. and JSW Ispat Steel Ltd. A
separate Indian contender is Corporate Ispat Alloys Ltd., said
Jumriany in a text message listing the bidders.  Iranian Interest  Two Iranian bidders are Gol-e-Gohar Iron Ore Co., one of
 Iran ’s biggest iron ore producers, and  Behin Sanate Diba  Co., a
privately run group of 10 investment, mining and industrial
companies, some of which are partly state-owned, said Leyla
Rashno, the group’s director for tenders.  Rashno declined in a phone interview in Tehran to say
whether the group’s bid has been encouraged or backed by Iran’s
government.  Toronto-based Kilo Goldmines, which trades on  Canada ’s TSX
Venture Exchange, focuses mainly on gold mining in the
 Democratic Republic  of Congo.  The other bidder for Hajigak is  Acatco LLC , whose owner,
Afghan-American businessman Nasir Shansab, lives near  Washington 
and said in a phone interview his partnership, which employs 30
people, would bring in unnamed additional partners to develop
the mine.  Indian Strategy  Indian authorities decided to facilitate their country’s
group because “it makes business and strategic sense to have a
presence in mining in Afghanistan,” Indian Mines Secretary S. Vijay Kumar said in January. Hajigak also may offer India an
investment foothold in Afghanistan to rival that of state-owned
Metallurgical Corp. of China Ltd., which is developing the
country’s biggest copper deposit, at Aynak.  India and Afghanistan accused  Pakistan ’s army of secretly
backing the July 2008 Taliban bomb attack on India’s embassy in
Kabul, one of at least three deadly attacks on Indians in the
city since that time. Pakistan denied the accusation.  Stalled Parliament  The mines ministry will this month recommend one bid to
receive the license, plus one alternate, or reserve, bid, for
each of four blocks at Hajigak, a ministry statement said.
Ministry spokesman Jawad Omar said the awards will require
approval by the cabinet and by Afghanistan’s parliament, where
sessions have been stalled by a dispute over which candidates
should be seated following disputed elections a year ago.  Hajigak is a range of treeless mountain ridges with a thin
population of villagers who graze animals and farm the valleys
below. The costs of developing mines will be increased by the
need to build paved roads or rail lines to connect the site to
potential markets.  While the ultimate cost of mining Hajigak is unclear,
Indian companies “should have every reason to go for the
Hajigak mines” if the cost of acquisition is about $1 to $1.5
per ton, said Ravindra Deshpande, an analyst with Mumbai-based
Elara Securities Ltd.  While the bidders do not include the world’s biggest mining
groups, which President Hamid Karzai’s government had hoped to
attract, the six contenders represent progress in attracting
investors’ interest.  Afghanistan  canceled a previous tender last
year when only one of seven initial competitors showed up to
visit the Hajigak site.  Corruption Issue  The U.S. Defense Department has backed efforts to draw in
international investors that it says are essential to
stabilizing Afghanistan. Still, the decade-old war and
corruption remain obstacles. Afghanistan last year  tied  with
Myanmar for the second-worst ranking among 178 countries in
 Transparency International ’s perceived corruption index.  Karzai’s government has pledged to manage and publish its
mining contracts under the provisions of the  Extractive
Industries Transparency Initiative , or EITI, a voluntary anti-
corruption regime, Mines Minister Wahidullah Shahrani has said.  EITI, based in Oslo, Norway, advocates rules for improving
the transparency of contracts and payments in mining and oil and
gas extraction. The group rates 11 countries, including  Nigeria ,
 Norway , Liberia and Azerbaijan, as fully compliant, while 23
states, including Afghanistan, Kazakhstan and  Indonesia , are
pursuing the two-year process to achieve that status.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  