-- 
African Growth Forecast Cut by AFDB on Global Slowdown Concern, Ncube Says

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-09-06T13:22:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/african-growth-forecast-cut-by-afdb-on-global-slowdown-concern-ncube-says.html
The  African Development Bank  cut its
growth estimate for the continent to as low as 3.2 percent for
this year on concern the global slowdown will reduce demand for
the region’s goods, Chief Economist  Mthuli Ncube  said.  Gross domestic product may be 0.3 percentage point to 0.5
percentage point lower than the Tunis-based lender’s initial 3.7
percent expectation for this year, Ncube said in a phone
interview today. The AFDB still expects growth of 5.8 percent in
2012, the highest since 2007, after conflicts in Ivory Coast and
Libya subsided, he said.  Job growth in the U.S. unexpectedly stagnated in August,
the weakest payrolls reading since September 2010, government
figures showed Sept. 2. World Bank President  Robert Zoellick 
indicated today that risks to the global economy are
intensifying.  A global slowdown “will effect trade for  Africa  and
therefore contribute to a drop in GDP growth,” Ncube said. “We
see a bigger impact in  South Africa  than the rest of Africa” as
“the economy is more integrated with the U.S. and global
market.”  Growth in South Africa, the region’s largest economy, is
expected slow to as little as 3.3 percent from an original
estimate of 3.6 percent, Ncube said.  South Africa’s economy expanded an annualized 1.3 percent
in the second quarter, its weakest pace in almost two years,
Statistics South Africa said on Aug. 30. The Reserve Bank will
act “appropriately” to an economic slowdown, Governor Gill
Marcus said on Aug. 23. The  Reserve Bank  has kept its benchmark
 interest rate  unchanged at 5.5 percent this year to help boost
the recovery in the nation’s economy.  “There is room for a rate cut,” said Ncube. “It will
weaken the rand a little bit and South Africa needs that to
increase export earnings, and that will contribute to growth.”  The rand has strengthened 32 percent against the dollar
since the start of 2009, the best performer in the period after
Brazil’s real and Chile’s peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  