-- 
Agencies Fall Short on Financial Management, House Panel Says

-- B y   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-09-06T21:26:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/agencies-fall-short-on-financial-management-house-panel-says.html
U.S. government agencies aren’t
doing enough to share spending information with the public and
still rely on manual processes to manage financial data,
according to a House committee.  Federal agencies use “a tangled web” of systems to handle
accounting of contracts, grants and other financial information,
according to a report today from the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee summarizing the results of a survey
of 26 agencies.  “Our analysis shows these systems are not serving
taxpayers well,” Representative  Darrell Issa , a California
Republican and chairman of the panel, said in a  news release .  Lawmakers on the panel had asked 26 agencies in March about
their financial management practices, including accounting and
grants management, and contracts management systems. The
agencies also were asked to report on the interaction of their
financial systems and the extent of their public reporting of
financial data, according to the statement.  Twenty-one of the 26 agencies surveyed reported
“widespread use of manual processes in reporting systems,” and
the Interior Department “uses manual processes in almost every
step of its financial reporting,” the committee said in the
release.  The panel said at least 10 agencies did not sufficiently
answer survey questions about the public availability of
financial information. Other agencies said they did not make
such data public, according to the statement. The agencies’
 responses  were posted on the committee’s website.  “In making agency responses publicly available, we believe
we can gain greater insight into the problems that keep federal
management systems so opaque,” Issa said.  Issa introduced the Digital Accountability and Transparency
Act of 2011 in June to encourage a governmentwide examination of
federal spending by making such information publicly available,
according to the release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juliann Francis in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  