-- 
ILFC Credit Swaps Widen as S&P Says IPO May Cut Rating

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-09-08T20:25:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/aig-s-plane-lessor-may-have-s-p-credit-rating-lowered-on-ipo.html
(Corrects date of report in second paragraph of story
published Sept. 6.)  Credit-default swaps on  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s plane-leasing unit widened after
Standard & Poor’s said a public offering of the business may
lead to its debt being downgraded one level to junk.  Contracts protecting against the default of International
Lease Finance Corp. for five years increased 2.1 percentage
points to 7.7 percent upfront as of 12:23 p.m. in New York,
according to data provider CMA. S&P said Sept. 2 in a statement
that it may reduce ILFC’s credit rating from BBB-, the lowest
investment-grade level, as New York-based AIG proceeds with an
initial public offering of the business.  AIG Chief Executive Officer Robert Benmosche, 67, is
focusing on U.S. life insurance and global property-casualty
coverage as he sells assets to repay a government bailout that
swelled to $182.3 billion. The insurer said last week that it
plans to sell more than 20 percent of the plane lessor and
divest most of the unit over time. ILFC’s credit rating is one
level higher than it would be as a standalone company, S&P said.  “Under our criteria, we will no longer incorporate that
one-notch support as the ILFC IPO process unfolds,” the ratings
organization said in the statement.  The upfront payment on ILFC’s swaps is in addition to 5
percent a year, meaning it would cost $770,000 initially and
$500,000 annually to protect $10 million of ILFC’s debt.  Outstanding Debt  Outstanding debt dropped by 19 percent to $25.8 billion in
the 12 months ended June 30, according to regulatory filings.
The Los Angeles-based company sold five-year notes after S&P
upgraded its senior unsecured debt rating to investment grade in
May at a 5.75 percent yield, 2.88 percentage points less than
similar-maturity debt issued last year.  ILFC has been repaying debt and generates a “healthy”
cash flow, the ratings firm said, “possibly offsetting our
withdrawal of rating credit under our criteria for any potential
support from AIG.” Last week’s filing disclosing the IPO plans
has no effect on the rating “at this time,” S&P said.  AIG may not be able to complete the IPO in a “timely
fashion, or at all, due to market or other conditions,” the
company said in a regulatory filing last week. The U.S. Treasury
Department, which holds a 77 percent stake in AIG, must approve
the sale.  The plane lessor, which relies on debt financing to
purchase aircraft, was temporarily shut out of credit markets
after AIG’s losses on mortgage bets in 2008 squeezed liquidity
at the parent company and led to downgrades.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. The contracts, which investors use to hedge against losses
on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decline
as investor confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  