-- 
Canadian Stocks Rise Before Obama Jobs Address; Banks, Oil Gain

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-09-07T20:50:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/air-canada-evertz-transcontinental-canadian-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks rose for the first
time in four days, led by energy and financial companies, as a
German court rejected challenges to  Europe ’s debt bailout and
investors speculated a new stimulus plan will spur U.S. growth.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) ,  Canada ’s largest oil and gas producer,
gained 3.7 percent as crude futures advanced the most in four
weeks.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , the country’s second-biggest
lender by assets, increased 1.4 percent after the  Bank of Canada 
said there is less need to withdraw stimulus.  Westport
Innovations Inc. (WPT) , which develops natural-gas engine technology,
soared 18 percent after reaching a marketing agreement with
Royal Dutch Shell Plc.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index climbed 202.02
points, or 1.6 percent, to 12,720.56.  “When there’s a bit of better-than-expected news, there’s
a bit of a knee-jerk reaction,”  Ian Nakamoto , director of
research at money manager MacDougall MacDougall & MacTier Inc.
in Toronto, said in a telephone interview. The firm oversees $4
billion.  The S&P/TSX dropped 2 percent in the previous three days,
including a 0.8 percent drop Sept. 2 after the U.S. said
employment didn’t increase in August. Concern over the European
debt crisis intensified after German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
party lost a state election. Canada’s stock benchmark has
declined 5.4 percent this year.  Germany ’s top court today rejected challenges to the
country’s participation in bailouts for indebted euro-region
governments. Industrial production in the country increased
eight times more last month than the median economist forecast
in a Bloomberg survey, the Bundesbank said today.  Tax Cuts, Spending  U.S. President  Barack Obama  is set to lay out plans to
Congress tomorrow to inject more than $300 billion into the
economy next year, mostly through tax cuts, infrastructure
spending and aid to state and local governments.  Oil futures rebounded from a one-week low in  New York .
Suncor rose 3.7 percent to C$30.36.  Canadian Natural Resources
Ltd. (CNQ) , the country’s second-largest energy company by market
value, gained 3.2 percent to C$35.66.  Athabasca Oil Sands Corp. (ATH) ,
PetroChina Co.’s partner in Canadian oil-sands development,
advanced 5.8 percent to C$13.65.  TransGlobe Energy Corp. (TGL) , which
operates in Egypt and Yemen, jumped 9.8 percent to C$9.91.  Every S&P/TSX bank and the three biggest insurers in the
index climbed after the Bank of Canada kept its benchmark
 interest rate  at 1 percent.  “In light of slowing global economic momentum and
heightened financial uncertainty, the need to withdraw monetary
policy stimulus has diminished,” the bank said in a statement.  Financial Shares  TD increased 1.4 percent to C$77.65.  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) ,
the country’s largest lender by assets, rose 1.4 percent to
C$48.90.  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) ,  North America ’s fourth-
biggest insurer, gained 2.9 percent to C$13.  All 15 companies in an index of S&P/TSX base-metals and
coal producer advanced as copper rallied. The metal climbed as
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. faced labor disputes in Peru
and  Indonesia .  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM) , the country’s second-biggest
publicly traded copper producer, rose 5.5 percent to C$23.25.
Ivanhoe Mines Ltd., which is building a copper and gold mine in
 Mongolia  with Rio Tinto Group, gained 8.5 percent to C$21.77.  Major Drilling Group International (MDI)  Inc., a contract
driller, surged 9.6 percent to C$12.65 after reporting first-
quarter earnings that beat the average analyst estimate in a
Bloomberg survey by 12 percent, excluding certain items. The
jump was the biggest since October 2009.  Joint Program  Westport rose 18 percent to a nine-year high of C$26.85.
Shell and Westport will jointly offer fuel supply, customer
support and maintenance to owners of North American natural-gas
vehicles, Shell said in a statement.  Magna International Inc. (MG) , Canada’s largest auto-parts
maker, rallied 5.2 percent to C$36.98 after Ravi Shanker, an
analyst at Morgan Stanley, raised his rating on the shares to
“overweight” from “underweight.” Shanker cited share-price
declines since Aug. 4 and the company’s “best-in-class”
balance sheet. Magna had $1.74 billion of cash and equivalents
as of June 30.  Bombardier Inc., the maker of trains and airplanes,
rebounded 5.5 percent to C$4.70 after closing at a one-year low
yesterday. Boeing Co. raised its 20-year commercial-aircraft-
demand forecast for China by 15 percent.  Transcontinental Inc. (TCL/A) , Canada’s largest printer, plunged
9.4 percent, the most since March 2009, to C$11.86. The company
reported third-quarter earnings that trailed the average analyst
estimate in a Bloomberg survey by 9.9 percent, excluding certain
items.  Evertz Technologies Ltd. (ET) , which makes electronics for
broadcasters, soared 12 percent, the most since February 2009,
to C$13 after its first-quarter profit surpassed the average
analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey by 19 percent, excluding
certain items.  Imax Corp. (IMAX) , the maker of giant-screen movie projection
systems, surged 9.5 percent to C$18.07. The shares have rallied
30 percent since closing at the lowest relative to earnings
since 2000 on Aug. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff at 
 Mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 Nbaker7@bloomberg.net  