-- 
Air France Gains on Reported $1.1 Billion Savings Plan, Possible Job Cuts

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-09-06T11:59:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/air-france-gains-on-reported-1-1-billion-savings-plan-possible-job-cuts.html
Air France-KLM (AF)  Group rose as much as
much as 4.1 percent in Paris trading after reports that Europe’s
largest airline may seek 800 million euros ($1.1 billion) in
fresh cost savings that could lead to thousands of job cuts.  Air France rose to 6.19 euros and traded 2.7 percent higher
at 6.11 euros at 1:24 p.m. after Les Echos said the company was
preparing the savings plan, citing a person it didn’t identify.
Spokeswoman Brigitte Barrand declined to comment on the report.  Chief Executive Officer Pierre-Henri Gourgeon has enforced
a hiring freeze and told union officials yesterday that further
cost-cutting measures may be necessary, without giving any
targets or discussing job cuts, Barrand said after the meeting.  “It’s good to hear, however I think it means things are
probably getting worse for Air France,” said Chris Logan, an
analyst at Echelon Research & Advisory in London. “My guess is
they’re seeing something they don’t like in forward bookings.”  Air France-KLM shares have plunged 55 percent this year,
the worst performance on the Bloomberg EMEA Airlines Index,
valuing the company at 1.84 billion euros ($2.6 billion). The
stock slid 7.1 percent yesterday on concern that Europe’s debt
crisis will worsen and global growth will evaporate.  High fuel costs and sluggish business-class demand will
lead to a weak end to the year for an industry already hurt by
unrest in the Middle East and an earthquake in Japan, the
International Air Transport Association said Sept 1.  Job Risk  Air France, which is targeting a positive 2011 operating
profit, may cut as many as 10,000 jobs if economies slow more
severely than expected, Le Figaro cited an unidentified union
official as saying. The carrier is already seeking 500 million
euros in savings in 2011 via productivity and procurement gains,
it said in July, up from the 470 million euros first pledged.  “Cost cutting in France has always been difficult,” said
Chris Tarry, an independent aviation analyst who has followed
the industry for almost three decades. “When they announced the
first cost-cutting exercise that was a major step forward.”  The carrier, which is switching its accounting to the
calendar year, earned 122 million euros in the 12 months to
March 31, its first operating profit in three years, before
posting a 145 million-euro loss for the quarter ended June 30.  Estimated Earnings  Air France-KLM will post a full-year operating profit of 25
million euros, according to the average of eight analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with estimates of
1.09 billion euros for  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and 644 million
euros for International Consolidated Airlines Group SA, formed
from the merger of British Airways and Spain’s Iberia.  Lufthansa was trading 0.6 percent higher today and IAG was
unchanged, as was leading discount carrier  Ryanair Holdings Plc. (RYA)   Airline earnings fell 60 percent industry-wide in the
second quarter compared with a year earlier, IATA said today.
The trade body said while carriers generate most revenue in the
July-September period, “conditions are now deteriorating.”  Air France-KLM will reduce planned capacity increases next
summer, it said yesterday, after trimming growth for the current
winter timetable to 2.7 percent from 5.1 percent in July, two
months after announcing a 10 percent seat reduction in its joint
venture with Atlanta-based  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)   “There’s nothing like a crisis to increase the focus on
reducing costs, but the most important thing is that you don’t
compromise your business for when the upturn comes,” Tarry said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  