-- 
Air Travel Shoes-Off Screening Rule to Be Eased in Future, Napolitano Says

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-09-06T19:30:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/air-travel-shoes-off-rule-to-be-eased-in-future.html
Air travelers won’t have to take
their shoes off during security screenings in the future, said
U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano.  “One of the first things you will see over time is the
ability to keep your shoes on,” Napolitano said today at a
forum hosted by Politico Playbook in Washington. She didn’t
specify when the change would take place.  Napolitano said restrictions on the amount of liquids
passengers can bring on a plane will likely remain in place for
the foreseeable future because technology hasn’t yet progressed
to differentiate between explosives and harmless liquids.  Airline customers have complained since the Sept. 11
attacks about elements of tighter airport security.
Representative Mike Rogers, an Alabama Republican who heads the
House subcommittee overseeing the  Transportation Security
Administration , has urged the agency to only require passengers
suspected of posing a threat to remove shoes and belts.  General Electric Co. (GE)  and other companies have sought for
years to get U.S. government approval for their shoe-scanning
devices. In 2009, Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE said it would
sell an 81 percent stake in its homeland-protection business to
Safran SA for $580 million.  Deadline Ahead  TSA’s goal was to have shoe scanners deployed at airports
by 2015, according to an October 2009 report by the Government
Accountability Office, which audits programs for Congress.  The agency has tested machines made by L3 Communications
Holdings Inc., in which passengers  step on  a black mat to have
their shoes scanned.  No decision has been made on the technology.  TSA has said it will begin later this year “Known
Traveler,” a  pilot  program to allow frequent travelers who
provide additional personal information to keep their shoes on
and laptops in bags.  The U.S. required passengers to remove their footwear and
send them through scanners with carry-on luggage after  Richard Reid  in 2001 attempted to set off explosives concealed in his
shoe while on a flight over the Atlantic Ocean.  Napolitano said while her department is remaining vigilant
before the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks,
there are no credible, “pending” threats to the U.S.  Still, she said, documents collected in the Pakistani
compound where former al-Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden was killed
revealed he considered the anniversary an “iconic” date.  While terrorists are focused on aviation, particularly
targeting U.S. and European planes, a “spectacular” attack in
the mold of Sept. 11 is unlikely, she said.  Homegrown terrorism is a “key concern,” particularly the
threat of an attack by a “lone wolf” terrorist inspired by al-
Qaeda to act, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Washington  at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;  Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  