-- 
Taiwan Bonds Advance for Third Day as Inflation Concern Eases

-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 
2011-09-06T08:22:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/taiwan-bonds-advance-for-third-day-as-inflation-concern-eases.html
Taiwan ’s government bonds advanced
for a third day, pushing five-year yields to their lowest level
of 2011, after data showed consumer prices rose less than
economists estimated in August. The local dollar weakened.  The inflation rate was 1.34 percent, little changed from
1.33 percent in July, the statistics bureau reported late
yesterday. That compares with the median forecast of 1.5 percent
in a Bloomberg survey. The Taiex index of shares plunged for a
second day after an election loss for German Chancellor Angela
Merkel’s party and reports of a rift between  Greece  and the
 International Monetary Fund  fueled concern that support for
bailing out indebted European nations is waning.  “Investors are worried politics in  Europe  will worsen the
debt problem,” said  Albert Lee , a Taipei-based fixed-income
trader at Cathay United Bank Co. “The latest inflation data
just adds to more and more signs that the central bank will
pause rate increases this month.”  The yield on the 2 percent notes due July 2016 fell two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 0.94 percent as of
the 1:30 p.m. close in Taipei, prices from Gretai Securities
Market show. That’s the lowest level for a benchmark five-year
note since November, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Taiwan’s central bank last boosted its benchmark rate on
June 30 by 12.5 basis points to 1.875 percent. The policy board
is set to meet again this month.  Taiwan’s dollar fell 0.1 percent to NT$29.11, the weakest
level in two weeks, versus its U.S. counterpart, according to
Taipei Forex Inc.  The overnight money-market rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, was steady at 0.395 percent, according to
a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank Money Center.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  