-- 
Alam Maritim, CME Group, Taliworks: Malaysia Equity Preview

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-09-06T23:56:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/alam-maritim-cme-group-taliworks-malaysia-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in  Malaysia  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the previous close, unless
stated otherwise.  Malaysia’s  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index fell 0.6 percent
to 1,454.37.  Alam Maritim Resources Bhd. (AMRB)  : The oil and gas
services provider won a 220.8 million-ringgit ($74 million)
contract to supply a vessel and anchor handling tug to
ExxonMobil Exploration & Production Malaysia Inc., according to
a company statement. Alam Maritim was unchanged at 73 sen.        Ariantec Global Bhd. (AGB)  : The computer services
provider won a 19.8 million-ringgit contract from Niagara
Technologies International Sdn. to install and maintain
bandwidth management equipment, it said in a statement. Ariantec
was unchanged at 3 sen.  CME Group Bhd. (CME)  : The fire-fighting equipment
manufacturer won a 14.3 million-ringgit contract from Petronas
Carigali Sdn., according to a stock exchange filing. CME rose
7.1 percent to 7.5 sen.        Global Carriers Bhd. (GLBC)  : The shipping company signed
a preliminary agreement with PT Humpuss Intermoda Transportasi
to jointly explore business opportunities in marine
transportation in Indonesia and Malaysia, according to an
exchange filing. Global Carriers fell 15 percent to 23 sen.       Taliworks Corp. (CI MK): The water treatment plant operator
won a 339.4 million-ringgit contract from China International
Water & Electric Corp. (M) Sdn. to help expand the Mengkuang Dam
in Penang state, it said in a statement. The stock last traded
at 1.12 ringgit on Sept. 5.  Takaso Resources Bhd. (TRB)  : The consumer products
company said it’s not aware of any reason for the recent plunge
in its shares, according to a stock filing. The stock tumbled 35
percent to 22 sen.       YTL Corp. (YTL MK): The utilities, cement and property
group spent 5.5 million ringgit buying back 4 million of its own
shares, a filing showed. YTL was unchanged at 1.38 ringgit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  