-- 
Allianz Gives Pimco More Independence in Fund Unit Revamp

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s   a n d   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-09-06T16:20:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/allianz-gives-pimco-more-independence-in-fund-unit-revamp-1-.html
Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Europe ’s biggest
insurer, said  Bill Gross ’s  Pacific Investment Management Co. 
will take over the global distribution of Pimco products as part
of a reorganization of the asset management business.  Pimco, the insurer’s largest fund manager, and Allianz
Global Investors will be combined under a new holding company,
Allianz Asset Management, effective Jan. 1, the Munich-based
insurer said in a  statement  today. The new group will be headed
by Allianz management board member Jay Ralph.  The move gives Pimco, which has increased assets more than
sixfold to $1.3 trillion since Allianz acquired the  Newport
Beach , California-based firm in 2000, more independence from its
corporate parent as it expands into equities. Gross and Mohamed El-Erian will continue to lead the firm.  “We’re shifting away from a family of boutiques to a two-
pillar structure,” Hanno Strube, an Allianz spokesman, said
today in an interview. The reorganization “does not prepare for
any IPO or spinoff” of either brand, he said.  Pimco oversaw two-thirds of Allianz’s 1.5 trillion euros
($2.08 trillion) in assets under management as of June 30, a
figure that includes funds managed for outside clients as well
as Allianz’s own money. The California firm accounts for the
vast majority of the fixed-income assets managed for third-party
clients at Allianz. Fixed income accounted for 87 percent of the
money that Allianz runs for external investors, according to an
Aug. 5 presentation on Allianz’s Web site.  Pimco’s Growth  “The last eight or nine years have witnessed tremendous
organic growth in the business, driven in particular by the
extraordinary success of Pimco in that period,” Allianz said in
today’s statement.  Allianz Global Investors will be headed by Elizabeth Corley
as chief executive officer and Andreas Utermann as chief
investment officer, Allianz said. The Allianz Global Investors
unit includes RCM Capital Management and former asset-management
units of  Dresdner Bank  and Commerzbank AG.  Allianz’s combined asset-management businesses reported a
2.3 percent gain in second-quarter operating profit to 528
million euros ($744 million) last month. The unit had net
deposits of 21.1 billion euros in the quarter, compared with
22.6 billion euros a year earlier. Fixed-income deposits were 18
billion euros during the three months ended June 30.  Paris-based Axa SA, Europe’s second-biggest insurer,
reported 23 billion euros in investor redemptions at its asset-
management units in the first half, mostly from institutional
clients withdrawing funds at New York-based AllianceBernstein.  U.S. Distribution  Gross manages the $245 billion  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX) , the
world’s biggest mutual fund. His firm last year started its own
distribution in the U.S., a move that “has enabled Allianz
Global Investors and Pimco to deliver better defined offerings
directly to clients,” Allianz said.  Pimco, co-founded by Gross in 1971, had $200 billion in
assets when it was acquired by Allianz more than a decade ago.
Pimco has maintained some autonomy since the takeover by
Allianz, relying on its own investment and executive committees
to control investment guidelines, expansion plans and executive
hires.  Synonymous with bonds for nearly four decades, Pimco in
December 2009 hired  Neel Kashkari , a former U.S. Treasury
official, to direct its expansion into equities.  Allianz, led by CEO Michael Diekmann, last month reiterated
its full-year operating profit forecast of 7.5 billion euros to
8.5 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oliver Suess in Frankfurt at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  