-- 
Amsterdam Concert Hall Plans Its Second Share Sale in 129 Years

-- B y   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e
-- 
2011-09-06T14:23:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/amsterdam-concert-hall-plans-35-million-share-sale-second-in-129-years.html
The Amsterdam concert hall that
hosted artists and conductors including  Maria Callas  and Gustav Mahler plans to sell shares for the second time in 129 years to
fund the building’s maintenance and music education.  “This jubilee issue is a historic milestone in Het
Concertgebouw’s history,” Het Concertgebouw NV Supervisory
Board Chairman Alexander Rinnooy Kan said in an e-mailed
statement. “It fits within the tradition of private financing
the institution, a tradition we’re proud of.”  The concert hall opened its doors for the first time in
1888, resulting in a nearby traffic jam of 421 carriages, after
a share sale by Het Concertgebouw, a private initiative, six
years earlier, according to a brochure that accompanies the
share sale. Nowadays, 700,000 people visit the venue designed by
Dolf Van Gendt every year to listen to about 750 concerts.  “Music does something to you,” the brochure said. “We
want children and youth with different social, cultural and
economic backgrounds to experience that.”  The concert hall plans to raise as much as 25 million euros
($35 million) by selling as many as 2,000 certificates of shares
for 250 euros each, the  prospectus  said. Possible buyers are
only qualified to purchase equities if they’ve committed to a
12,250 euro tax deductible donation to a fund for each
certificate they want to buy.  Het Concertgebouw hired a group of banks including ABN Amro
Bank NV, Deutsche Bank Nederland NV, Cooperatieve Centrale
Raiffeisen-Boerenleenbank BA, F. van Lanschot Bankiers NV and
ING Bank NV to manage the offering.  The concert hall, where artists including Yehudi Menuhin,
 Janis Joplin  and Igor Stravinsky performed, currently has 135
ordinary shareholders and 23 preference shareholders, according
to the brochure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 