-- 
Apple’s First Hong Kong Store to Open at IFC in Push for More China Sales

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-06T05:38:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/apple-will-open-store-in-hong-kong-s-international-finance-center-mall.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is preparing to open its
first store in Hong Kong this month as the maker of iPhones and
iPads aims to capture the surge in demand from China and its
neighboring regions.  The store, located inside the International Finance Center
Mall in Hong Kong’s Central shopping and business district, will
debut this quarter, said Carolyn Wu, a Beijing-based Apple
spokeswoman, declining to specify a date. The Ming Pao Daily
reported two days ago, without citing anyone, that it will open
the two-story store Sept. 24, spanning 20,000 square feet.  For Apple, which says it’s only “scratching the surface”
in China, Hong Kong and  Taiwan  after sales in the region surged
six-fold last quarter, the IFC store may help the company reduce
its reliance on resellers to sell products in the city. The shop
will be Apple’s fifth store in the  China  region, which has
generated about $8.8 billion in revenue in the past three
quarters, or 11 percent of Apple’s total.  “The iPhone is one of the leading smartphones in the Hong
Kong market,” said Sandy Shen, an analyst at Gartner Inc. in
 Shanghai . “The sales momentum for the iPhone is still very
strong, and we see the growth being maintained for the next few
quarters.”  Retail Sales  Apple may also open two more stores in Hong Kong, one in
the Lee Gardens at  Causeway Bay  and one in Tsim Sha Tsui’s
Canton Road, according to the Ming Pao report, which didn’t cite
anyone or say when. The Cupertino, California-based company is
in negotiations with Hysan Development Co. to open a store in
Causeway Bay’s Hysan Place, a person with knowledge of the
matter said in May.  Attracting a tenant such as Apple, the world’s second-
largest company by market value, may be a victory for  Sun Hung
Kai Properties Ltd. (16)  and Henderson Land Development Co., who
developed the IFC commercial complex that includes the 88-story
IFC 2 office tower, as they benefit from the influx of visitors
from mainland China. Rent prices for shops in Hong Kong’s
Central business district may climb almost 50 percent over the
next three years, according to Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.  Retail sales in Hong Kong during the first seven months of
the year rose 25 percent from a year earlier, the biggest gain
since data began in 1981, according to the statistics department.
In July, revenue jumped 29 percent, driven by sales of jewelry,
watches and electronics. The yuan’s 7.5 percent gain against
 Hong Kong ’s dollar in the past couple of years has also boosted
the spending power of shoppers from China.  Retailers Boom  The price of Apple products, including taxes, are cheaper
in Hong Kong. The cheapest iPad 2 in Apple’s China store costs
3,688 yuan (HK$4,497.7), or 16 percent more than the price in
Hong Kong’s online store.  Apple’s store opening “exemplifies the fact that foreign
brands have bullish prospects on the retail market here,” said
Mariana Kou, a retail analyst with CLSA in Hong Kong. “All the
top brands are” at the IFC, she said.  Resellers of Apple products such as DG Lifestyle may not be
as bullish. The retailer, which has 11 outlets in Hong Kong,
closed its shop in the IFC two days ago after seven years in
operation, said a spokeswoman for DG who asked that she only be
identified by her surname Ko. She declined to comment further on
Apple’s store opening and the business impact.  China Sales  Still, the apple store opening should not have much of a
“dilution effect” on resellers, said Gabriel Chan, a retail
analyst with Credit Suisse Group AG in Hong Kong.  In China, consumers need to pay value-added tax,  import
duties  and  consumption tax , so luxury products in Hong Kong are
both cheaper for buyers and more profitable for sellers, Chan
said.  Apple, which didn’t open its first store in China until
2008, now has two stores each in Beijing and Shanghai. Those
four stores generate, on average, the company’s highest traffic
and highest revenue, Chief Financial Officer  Peter Oppenheimer 
said in January. The company had 327 stores worldwide at the end
of last quarter.  Apple’s sales in the China region were “key” to Apple’s
third-quarter results after they surged sixfold to $3.8 billion,
Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  said in July before he was
promoted from chief operating officer. The company plans to open
40 stores, including 28 new stores outside the U.S., during
fiscal 2011, he said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  