-- 
Gold ‘Not in a Bubble’ as Central Banks Keep Printing Money, Faber Says

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-09-06T09:33:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/marc-faber-sees-no-bubble-in-gold.html
Gold’s rally above $1,900 an ounce
shows no signs of a “bubble” as central banks continue to
boost  money supply  that has helped spur bullion to a record,
according to investor  Marc Faber .  “I don’t think that gold is in a bubble,” Faber,
publisher of the Gloom, Boom and Doom report, said in a phone
interview yesterday from  Chiang Mai , Thailand. “When you buy
gold, it’s an insurance against systematic failure and problems
in the financial markets.”  Gold climbed to a record $1,921.15 an ounce today,
underscoring Faber’s contention that declining equities and
weakening currencies will support demand. Speculative buying had
pushed the gold market into a “bubble that is poised to
burst,” Wells Fargo & Co. analysts led by Dean Junkans said in
a report last month.  “I’d buy every month a little bit of gold,” Faber said.  Manufacturing slowed in the U.S.  Europe  and  Asia , adding to
signs of slowing global growth that may force central banks to
step up stimulus measures.  The  Federal Reserve  completed its second round of so-called
quantitative easing in June, whereby the central bank purchased
$600 billion of Treasuries from November 2010, after injecting
$1.25 trillion in the first round. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Citigroup Inc. see the Bank of England restarting bond buying as
early as this week as the economic recovery weakens and bank-
funding costs increase.  Gold Holdings  Holdings in exchange-traded products backed by gold rose to
a record 2,217 metric tons on Aug. 8, and stood at 2,142.4 tons
as of yesterday, Bloomberg data show. Trade volume in Comex gold
futures and options rose on Aug. 24 to a record 593,405
contracts, according to Jeremy Hughes, Singapore-based spokesman
of CME Group Inc.  Gold is in the 11th year of a bull run, the longest rally
since at least 1920 in  London , as investors seek to diversify
away from equities and some currencies. It climbed to records
priced in euros, Swiss franc, British pounds and Canadian
dollars today on speculation that Europe’s debt crisis will
worsen, damping economic growth and driving investors to protect
their wealth. Futures in India and  China , the world’s two
largest consumers, touched all-time highs.  Spot gold lost 0.4 percent to $1,893.50 an ounce as of
10:28 a.m. London time.  Stocks, Bonds  Gold is up 33 percent this year, outperforming global
stocks, commodities and Treasuries as investors bought more
bullion and central banks added to their reserves for the first
time in a generation. The MSCI All-Country Index of equities has
dropped almost 11 percent this year, while the dollar has shed 5
percent against a basket of six major currencies. Treasuries
returned 8.1 percent this year, according to data from Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  Still, gold prices may slump as much as 30 percent from a
record as the dollar “outperforms” its counterparts, damping
demand for bullion as an alternative currency, Stanley Crouch,
the chief investment officer of Aegis Capital Corp., said Aug.
24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in  Singapore  at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net . 