-- 
Area, Adler Acquire Washington-Area Properties in $350 Million Transaction

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-09-06T18:09:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/area-adler-acquire-washington-area-properties-in-350-million-transaction.html
Area Property Partners LP and Adler
Group acquired most of a group of 18 office and warehouse
properties in the  Washington  area and plan to buy the rest in
the next two months in a deal totaling $350 million.  Average occupancy of the properties is 79 percent and the
new owners plan to increase the rate to more than 90 percent
through building improvements and marketing, Matthew L. Adler,
chief investment officer of Miami-based Adler Group, said in a
statement today. The transaction makes Adler and Area, joint
venture partners since 1998, the second-largest industrial
property landlords in greater Washington, according to the
statement.  “We are bullish” on the area “and confident that this
high-quality portfolio will further flourish under the hands-on
asset management skills we bring to the table,” Steve Wolf, a
partner with New York-based Area, said in the statement. The
properties are well-suited for the region’s federal agencies and
intelligence,  law enforcement  and technology businesses,
according to Wolf.  The seller, Rockville, Maryland-based  Washington Real
Estate Investment Trust (WRE) , is disposing of its industrial division
as well as office properties in Northern Virginia and suburban
 Maryland . The deal gives Washington REIT flexibility to invest
in assets that better fit its strategy of owning properties
closer to central Washington, George F. “Skip” McKenzie,
president and chief executive officer, said in a separate
statement.  Five Transactions  The properties comprise a total of 3.1 million square feet
(288,000 square meters) and are being sold in five separate
transactions, three of which are complete. The final two sales,
for 803,673 square feet, will be done in the next two months,
Area and Adler said.  Some of the 230 current tenants include General Electric
Co.’s health-care division, AstraZeneca Plc’s MedImmune unit,
Raytheon Co. and L-3 Communications Holdings Inc., according to
Area and Adler.  Area Property, formerly known as Apollo Real Estate
Advisors, is led by Chairman  William Mack  and Global Chief
Executive Officer Lee Neibart. Area and Adler have acquired and
operated more than 8 million square feet of commercial real
estate since 1998. The joint venture is the Washington region’s
biggest industrial landlord after Bethesda, Maryland-based  First
Potomac Realty Trust. (FPO)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at   hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   ketzel@bloomberg.net  