-- 
Mark Cuban Says He Detected ‘Red Flags’ Before Selling His Mamma.com Stock

-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 
2011-09-06T18:12:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/mark-cuban-says-he-detected-red-flags-before-selling-mamma-com-shares.html
Billionaire  Mark Cuban , who is being
sued by U.S. regulators for alleged insider trades in Mamma.com,
said he saw “red flags” at the company before he sold his
shares.  Cuban said in a filing last week in Dallas federal court
that he needs access to U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
investigative documents on Mamma.com Inc., the Montreal-based
Internet search company now known as Copernic Inc., to combat
the civil insider-trading suit filed by the SEC in 2008.  The SEC accused Cuban of trading on confidential
information when he sold his stake in Mamma.com just before it
announced a private placement of shares. In an Aug. 29 filing
requesting that the SEC share more materials from an
investigation of Mamma.com, Cuban, 53, said he had other reasons
to sell.  “Mr. Cuban has repeatedly stated that he sold his shares in
Mamma.com in part because he saw ‘red flags’ in the company and
he began to suspect that the individuals involved with Mamma.com
might be ‘crooked,’” according to the filing, which states that
the SEC was investigating Mamma.com “around this time.”  Cuban, who has denied wrongdoing, said in the filing he is
seeking documents about the probe, which he said was closed
without the commission taking action.  ‘Highly Relevant’  “This investigation into Mamma.com is highly relevant to
Mr. Cuban’s motivation for selling his shares and could fully
substantiate Mr. Cuban’s concerns about whether the individuals
involved with Mamma.com were ‘crooked,’” the court papers state.  Joel Villeneuve, a spokesman for Copernic, didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking comment.  The SEC contends that in June 2004, Cuban found out about
the company’s plan to raise money through a private investment,
which would significantly dilute his stake in the company. He
sold his shares, saving about $750,000 in losses, the SEC said.  SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment on the
filing. Thomas Melsheimer, Cuban’s lead attorney, didn’t
immediately return a telephone call seeking comment.  Cuban is owner of the  National Basketball Association ’s
 Dallas Mavericks , the HDNet high-definition television channel
and the Landmark Theater chain.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Cuban,
08-cv-2050, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas
(Dallas)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Korosec in Dallas at 
 korosec@sbcglobal.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  