-- 
Larsen, State Bank Among ‘Great Buys,’ Destimoney India Says

-- B y   T a n y a   A s h r e e n a
-- 
2011-09-06T06:25:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/larsen-state-bank-among-great-buys-destimoney-india-says.html
Sudip Bandopadhyay, managing
director at Destimoney  India  Services Pvt., comments on the
outlook for Indian stocks. He spoke on phone from Mumbai.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, lost
1.1 percent to 16,532.55 at 11:43 a.m. local time.  The measure slid 8.4 percent last month, the worst August
in at least a decade.  On markets:  “International markets and how they’ll pan out is the
basic concern in the Indian market. Eurozone is at a critical
phase and that has spooked Indian markets. India has performed
in the last five-to-six trading sessions despite international
markets being bad. Now, Indian markets are bracing for further
downward moves in the European and U.S. markets.”  On  interest rates :  “How the  Reserve Bank  of India reacts to the interest rate
scenario on Sept. 16 is critical. I don’t believe in further
rate hikes because it’s not good for the economy.”  The central bank has raised its benchmark rate 11 times
since the start of 2010 to damp living costs that are rising the
fastest among the so-called BRICS nations.  On stock recommendations:  “It’s a good time for anybody with a medium to long-term
horizon to buy frontline, good-quality stocks. Valuations are
looking attractive, particularly in frontline stocks.  ‘‘For long-term investors, Larsen & Toubro,  State Bank  of
India, Axis Bank, Mahindra & Mahindra and Tata Consultancy
Services are great buys.’’  The Sensex trades at 13.9 times estimated earnings, near
the lowest level since April 2009 and down from 21.5 times in
March 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Ashreena in Mumbai at 
 tashreena@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  