-- 
Arsenal’s Vermaelen May Miss 2 Months After Surgery, Mirror Says: Roundup

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-09-06T09:51:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/arsenal-s-vermaelen-may-miss-2-months-after-surgery-mirror-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Vermaelen’s Achilles  Arsenal defender  Thomas Vermaelen  may miss two months after
having surgery yesterday in  Sweden  for his injured left Achilles
tendon, the  Daily Mirror  said.  Vermaelen was kicked in the leg in the Champions League
playoff against Udinese two weeks ago and sat out an 8-2 loss at
Manchester United on Aug. 28. Arsenal decided to operate rather
than risk a repeat of the Belgian’s being sidelined for most of
the season, The Mirror said. Vermaelen missed much of last
season with a right Achilles problem, the Mirror said.  Vermaelen is hoping to be back is less than two months, the
Mirror said. Arsenal signed defenders Per Mertesacker from
Werder Bremen and Andre Santos from Fenerbahce last week prior
to the transfer deadline.  Holiday Questions  England manager  Fabio Capello  has questioned Arsenal’s
handling of  Jack Wilshere ’s ankle injury, the  Guardian  said.  Wilshere will miss up to three months after hurting his
ankle playing for England in June. Capello has said the national
team is not to blame and questioned why Arsenal allowed him to
go on holiday after aggravating it in a preseason match in July
instead of getting treatment, the Guardian said.  “It’s not my job to say what happened, but he suffered
against  Switzerland  and then went on holiday for a month,”
Capello was quoted as saying by the newspaper.  Chelsea Trouble  Porto has threatened to report Chelsea to European soccer’s
governing body UEFA and FIFA, the sport’s international body,
over the Blues’ failed bid for fullback Alvaro Pereira in
January,  the Sun  said.  Porto President Jorge Nuno Pinto da Costa says Chelsea made
a direct approach to the Uruguayan without the club’s
permission, the Sun said.  Keane for Iceland?  Roy Keane is the leading candidate to become manager of the
Iceland national team, the  Daily Mail  said.  The former  Manchester United  player has been out of work
since being fired by Ipswich in January. He’s been in talks with
the Iceland soccer federation and will watch the team’s Euro
2012 qualifier against Cyprus in Reykjavik tonight, the Mail
said.  Iceland officials are looking to replace Olafur
Johannesson, who is due to leave next month after four years.
Steve Coppell and ex-Sweden boss Lars Lagerback have also been
linked with the post, the Mail said.  All Clear  Liverpool captain  Steven Gerrard  has been given permission
to return to full training this week, the  Daily Mail  said.  The midfielder underwent surgery for a groin injury in
April and his comeback in preseason was delayed by an infection.
Gerrard may be included in the squad when Liverpool visits
Tottenham on Sept. 18, the Mail said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 