-- 
Masan Unit Offers to Buy 50.11% of Vinacafe Bien Hoa

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-06T12:37:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/masan-group-unit-offers-to-buy-50-11-of-vinacafe-bien-hoa-1-.html
(Corrects month of listing in fifth paragraph.)  Masan Consumer Corp., a unit of
Vietnam’s biggest publicly traded company, offered to buy 50.11
percent of Vinacafe Bien Hoa Joint-Stock Co., according to a
statement on Vinacafe’s website.  The  Masan Group Corp. (MSN)  subsidiary plans to buy 13.32 million
shares between Sept. 12 and Oct. 11, Vinacafe said in the
 statement , without giving a price or reason. The coffee
producer’s board will discuss the offer Sept. 13, Deputy General
Director Le Hung Dung said by phone. Masan spokesman Brad Jaffe
said he couldn’t comment immediately.  Masan’s unit is seeking control of the coffee roaster after
the group told investors in April it had a “war chest” of as
much as $500 million for acquisitions, according to an annual
general meeting presentation posted on the company’s website.
Smaller consumer companies may become targets for further
acquisitions in Vietnam as they offer higher margins, growth and
protection against accelerating inflation, said Adrian Cundy,
head of research at VinaSecurities Joint-Stock Co.  “Masan appears to be executing on its stated acquisition
strategy,” said Cundy. VinaSecurities is the securities unit of
the country’s biggest fund manager. “Coffee is a big part of
the  Vietnam  consumer story, and they are buying a controlling
stake. For Vinacafe, it shows that control and good consumer
brands are worth a market premium.”  Vinacafe Bien Hoa climbed 4.7 percent to 100,000 dong as of
the 11 a.m. local-time close, the highest since the company was
listed in January. Masan Group rose 4.3 percent to 122,000 dong,
the highest since May 12. The benchmark VN Index of the Ho Chi
Minh City Stock Exchange gained 0.1 percent.  KKR Investment  Masan Consumer agreed in April to sell a 10 percent stake
to KKR & Co., the investment firm managed by  Henry Kravis  and
 George Roberts , for $159 million, in the largest private-equity
investment in Vietnam. New York-based KKR is betting Vietnam’s
young population and growing middle class will help it generate
returns even amid inflation concerns.  Consumer prices rose 23.02 percent in August from a year
earlier, the fastest pace since November 2008. That’s the
highest inflation rate among 17 Asian economies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Masan Consumer, formerly known as Masan Food, is the market
leader in fish, soya and chili sauce and the second-largest
producer of branded instant noodles in Vietnam, the company said
in April.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  