-- 
Asian Stocks Fall as Euro Slides, Treasury Yield Drops to Record

-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-09-06T00:30:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/asian-stocks-fall-as-euro-slides-treasury-yield-drops-to-record.html
Asian stocks fell, Treasury 10-year
yields sank to a record, the euro weakened for a sixth day and
oil slumped on speculation  Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index lost 0.7 percent as of 9:01 a.m.
in Tokyo, set for a third day of declines. Standard & Poor’s 500
Index futures sank 2.5 percent, while Treasury 10-year yields
reached 1.92 percent before U.S. markets resume trading after a
holiday. The euro slid 0.2 percent to $1.4072 and fell to 108.24
yen. Crude dropped 3.2 percent in New York, while wheat, corn
and soybeans all retreated by more than 1 percent.  Financial shares led losses in Asia, following a slump in
bank stocks in Europe yesterday as the cost of bank default
insurance surged to records. Finance ministers from  Germany ,
Finland and the Netherlands will meet today to discuss a Finnish
demand for collateral in a bailout for Greece, while the Italian
Senate will debate the nation’s austerity plan amid a strike
called by the nation’s biggest union.  “Investors are getting nervous again about Europe’s
sovereign risks,” said  Fumiyuki Nakanishi , a strategist at
Tokyo-based SMBC Friend Securities Co. “As no progress has been
made on fiscal issues, people are worried about a negative
impact on financial markets by increasing banks’ funding
costs.”  More than four shares retreated for every one that gained
on MSCI’s Asia Pacific Index, which is extending a two-day, 3.7
percent slump. Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average slid 1 percent,
South Korea’s Kospi Index sank 1.2 percent and Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index declined 1.3 percent.  Futures expiring in September indicate the  S&P 500  may
extend a two-day, 3.7 percent sell-off. Yields on Treasury 10-
year notes dropped six basis points. Data today may show the U.S.
services industries grew at the slowest pace in more than a year,
two days before President  Barack Obama  addresses the nation on
his plan to reignite the economy.  The euro depreciated against 12 of its 16 most-actively
traded counterparts and slid for a fifth day against the Swiss
franc. A Bloomberg index of European financial stocks fell 5.6
percent yesterday to the lowest level since March 2009, while a
measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to each other jumped to the
highest since April of that year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shiyin Chen in  Singapore  at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 