-- 
Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Gold Declines From Record in London

-- B y   M i l l i e   M u n s h i
-- 
2011-09-06T21:37:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/asia-commodity-day-ahead-gold-declines-from-record-in-london.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Gold Declines From Record in London as SNB Imposes Franc Ceiling  Gold fell from a record as some investors sold metal to
cover losses in the  Swiss franc  after the country’s central bank
imposed a ceiling to the exchange rate.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Peru ’s Coffee Exports to Increase 4.8% This Year, Group Says (1)  Coffee exports from Peru,  South America ’s third-largest
grower, will climb 4.8 percent this year, an industry group
said.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Caps Biggest Loss in Four Weeks on Concern Demand Ebbing  Copper fell the most in almost four weeks as slower
European growth increased concern that the region’s worsening
debt crisis will limit demand.  MINING:  Glencore Raises Optimum Stake to 23.9%, Increases Price Paid (2)  Glencore International Plc, the largest publicly traded
commodities supplier, raised its stake in Optimum Coal Holdings
Ltd., buying shares at 12 percent above the price it proposed
last week.  Afghanistan  Draws India, Iran,  Canada  Bids for Hajigak Ore (2)  An Indian government-backed group, two Iranian contenders
and Canada’s Kilo Goldmines Ltd. are among six bidders seeking
to mine Afghanistan’s richest iron-ore deposit, an Afghan
official said.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Not in a Bubble as Central Banks Print Cash, Faber Says (2)  Gold’s rally above $1,900 an ounce shows no signs of a
“bubble” as central banks continue to boost  money supply  that
has helped spur bullion to a record, according to investor  Marc
Faber .  Gold Shares to Gain on Pegged Swiss Franc, Collins Stewart Says  Gold shares may rise after the Swiss central bank set a
minimum exchange rate for its currency, a rival to gold as an
investor haven,  Collins Stewart  Plc said.  AGRICULTURE:  Cotton Rebounds on Storm-Damage Concerns;  Orange Juice  Gains  Cotton futures rose on concern that output will drop in the
U.S., the world’s top exporter, after Tropical Storm Lee soaked
much of the South. Orange juice also gained.  Cocoa Plunges on Economic Outlook, Dollar; Sugar, Coffee Decline  Cocoa futures plunged the most in four months as Europe’s
widening credit crisis sparked a rally in the dollar, eroding
demand for raw materials priced in the currency. Sugar and
coffee also declined.  Hog Futures Decline to Lowest Since January; Cattle Advance  Hog prices declined to the lowest since January on signs of
ebbing demand for U.S. pork and increasing animal supplies.
Cattle futures rose.  U.S. Corn, Soy Crop Conditions Worsen on Dry Weather, USDA Says  The condition of the U.S. corn and soybean crops worsened
last week as dry, cool Midwest weather increased plant stress
and hastened crop maturity, the Department of Agriculture said.  Corn, Soybean, Wheat Prices Drop on Signs Grain Demand May Slump  Corn, soybean and wheat futures fell on speculation that
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis will hinder the global economy,
reducing demand for food, livestock feed and fuel made from
crops.  Canadian Prairie Harvest Is 33% Complete, Ahead of Normal Pace  The harvest in the Canadian prairies is 33 percent
complete, ahead of the normal pace of 31 percent for this time
of year, the Canadian Wheat Board said.  SHIPPING:  Ship Rents May Fall Under $10,000 This Month, Macquarie Says (1)  Rents for capesize ships that haul iron ore and coal may
fall below $10,000 a day as soon as the end of this month,
according to Macquarie Securities Ltd., implying a potential 59
percent plunge.  ECONOMIES:  U.S. Service Industries Unexpectedly Expand at Faster Pace (3)  Service industries  unexpectedly expanded at a faster pace
in August, easing concern the biggest part of the  U.S. economy 
was slumping.  SNB Pledges Upper Franc Limit in Unlimited Currency Purchase (3)  The Swiss central bank imposed a ceiling on the franc for
the first time in more than three decades and pledged to defend
the target with the “utmost determination,” prompting a record
drop in the currency.  OTHER MARKETS:  Stocks Slide, 10-Year Note Yield Reaches Record Low; Franc Drops  Stocks fell, sending Europe’s benchmark index to a two-year
low, while 10-year Treasury yields slid to a record amid growing
concern Europe’s debt crisis is worsening. The franc sank the
most since the euro’s creation as the Swiss central bank set a
ceiling on the  exchange rate .  Franc Plunges Most Ever Versus Euro as Central Bank Draws Line  The franc tumbled, dropping the most ever against the euro,
after the Swiss central bank imposed a ceiling on the currency’s
exchange rate and said it will defend the target with the
“utmost determination.”  SPORTS:  Doral Golf Resort Owner Agrees to $170 Million Property Sale (1)  The Doral golf resort’s owner agreed to sell the Miami
property for $170 million as part of a restructuring of a group
of  luxury resorts .  Betfair Says ‘Comfortable’ With Full-Year Sales Outlook (1)  Betfair Group Plc, the biggest online person-to-person
betting exchange, posted fiscal first-quarter revenue ahead of
analysts’ estimates and said it’s “comfortable” with the
outlook for the full year, as tennis, golf and cricket betting
gained.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  