-- 
Asian Currencies Weaken, Led by Korean Won, as Europe Debt Concern Mounts

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-09-06T08:43:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/asian-currencies-weaken-led-by-rupiah-as-european-debt-concern-mounts.html
Asian currencies fell, led by  South
Korea ’s won, on concern  Europe ’s worsening debt crisis and the
slowing  U.S. economy  will reduce exports and sap demand for
emerging-market assets.  South Korea, Asia’s fourth-largest economy, is facing
uncertainties from global downside risks and volatile financial
markets, its finance ministry said today. The Stoxx Europe 600
Index posted its biggest two-day drop since March 2009 yesterday
as the fifth election defeat for German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s party this year and reports of a rift between European
leaders and the  International Monetary Fund  added to concern
that support for bailing out indebted nations is waning.  “The euro-zone sovereign issue and also the U.S. economy
increased a lot of uncertainties in the market, especially for
Asian economies,” said Andy Ji, a currency strategist at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia  in Singapore. “It’s risk-off”
for Asian currencies, he said.  The won slid 0.6 percent to 1,074.82 per dollar as of the 3
p.m. close in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Indonesia’s rupiah weakened 0.3 percent to 8,563 and the
Philippine peso dropped 0.2 percent to 42.28.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies excluding the yen, reached
119.21, the lowest level in more than a week. The MSCI Asia-
Pacific Index of shares lost 1.4 percent, taking its three-day
decline to 5.1 percent.  Global Headwinds  The Institute for Supply Management’s non-manufacturing
index for the U.S. fell to 51 last month, the lowest since
January 2010, from 52.7 in July, a Bloomberg survey showed
before a report today. A reading of 50 is the dividing line
between expansion and contraction.  The won fell for a third day as South Korea’s  finance
ministry  said the nation’s current-account surplus may narrow in
August from July as exports declined while factories were closed
for the summer holidays. Local financial markets are closed on
Sept. 12 and 13 for the Chuseok holiday.  “European stock movements heightened risk-averse
sentiment in the market, pushing the won down,” said Lee Jin
Ill, a Seoul-based senior currency dealer at Hana Bank.
“Exporters’ sales of dollars before the Chuseok holiday may
limit losses.”  The peso fell the most in almost two weeks as Philippine
central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said in a speech in Manila
today that the downside risks to global economic growth have
increased and “headwinds” are impeding expansion.  Asia  needs
to boost investments and consumption as a slowdown in advanced
economies will likely affect the region, he said.  Risk Aversion Rising  “The peso’s weaker as risk aversion rises on concern over
deteriorating fundamentals in the U.S. and euro zone,” said
 Jonathan Ravelas , chief market strategist at Banco de Oro
Unibank Inc. in Manila.  Elsewhere, the Singapore and Taiwan dollars fell 0.1
percent to S$1.2068 and NT$29.112, respectively, against their
U.S. counterpart. Thailand’s baht weakened 0.1 percent to 29.92,
 China ’s yuan slipped 0.08 percent to 6.3908, while India’s rupee
and Malaysia’s ringgit were little changed at 45.9913 and 2.9823,
respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  