-- 
Asia Dragged Down by Europe’s Crisis Forced to Hold Rates as Prices Climb

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-09-07T03:19:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/asia-dragged-down-by-europe-s-crisis-forced-to-hold-rates-as-prices-climb.html
Europe ’s failure to end a deepening
debt crisis and a faltering U.S. recovery are escalating the
danger of a growth slowdown in Asia, putting pressure on central
banks meeting this week to refrain from interest-rate increases.  Central banks in South Korea,  Malaysia , Indonesia and the
 Philippines  will probably all keep their benchmark rates
unchanged tomorrow, according to four Bloomberg News surveys of
economists. Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas and Bank Negara Malaysia
will also refrain from increasing banks’ reserve requirements
after raising the ratios earlier this year, according to
separate surveys.  World Bank President Robert Zoellick said yesterday the
world is “moving into a dangerous period” as stocks extended a
slump that has wiped $6.6 trillion off global equity values in
the three months ended Sept. 5. Inflation may limit the scope
for stimulus in  Asia  as expansions slow from  China  to Malaysia.  “Lingering inflationary pressures will prevent central
banks from easing rapidly, which can potentially pose a
challenge,” said  Frederic Neumann , co-head of Asian economic
research at HSBC Holdings Plc in  Hong Kong . “While central
banks in Asia will likely stop tightening, no one will pull a
Brazilian and chop  interest rates  either,” he said, referring
to  Brazil ’s rate cut last week.  RBA Signal  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor  Glenn Stevens  signaled
today a willingness to keep rates on hold while the nation’s
consumers retrench and global financial markets create
instability for the “foreseeable future.”  “Periods of sudden increases in anxiety within
international financial markets are moments when, if at all
possible, it is good to be in a position to be able to maintain
steady settings,” he said in prepared remarks in Perth.  Stevens held rates at 4.75 percent yesterday for the ninth
straight meeting. A report today showed Australia’s economy
expanded 1.2 percent last quarter from the previous three months,
when it fell a revised 0.9 percent.  Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive Officer Josef Ackermann
said this week conditions in the stock and bond markets are
reminiscent of the financial crisis of late 2008, when the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September of 2008
froze credit markets and forced taxpayer-funded bailouts of
banks from Washington and  London  to Berlin.  Korean Decision  Bank of  Korea  Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board will
hold the seven-day repurchase rate at 3.25 percent, 14 out of 18
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted, while four
expect an increase to 3.5 percent. Gross domestic product grew
0.9 percent in the second quarter from the previous three months,
when it advanced 1.3 percent.  “What looked like a soft patch seems to be a much softer
global recovery path,” said Erik Lueth, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “Given its
reliance on U.S. and European economies, this is bound to affect
Korea. I no longer expect interest hikes in 2011 and 2012.”  Still, South Korea would have to “normalize” monetary
policy to fight inflation unless the global economy returns to
recession, Kim said last month. Consumer prices in  South Korea 
rose 5.3 percent last month from a year earlier, the biggest
gain in three years, even after policy makers boosted borrowing
costs three times this year and the government implemented price
controls.  Emergency Meeting  President  Lee Myung Bak  held an emergency cabinet meeting
on July 20 to discuss ways to contain inflation after his
approval rating dropped. The Kospi stock index plunged 12
percent in August, the biggest monthly drop since the global
financial crisis in 2008, and extended losses this month. The
won has declined 0.6 percent against the dollar this month.  LG Display Co., the world’s second-largest maker of liquid-
crystal displays, may cut spending next year as slowing flat-
screen television sales damp demand, Chief Executive Officer
Kwon Young Soo said last month. Samsung Electronics Co. posted
an 18 percent profit drop from a year earlier last quarter.  Bank  Indonesia  will keep its key rate at 6.75 percent,
according to all 10 economists surveyed, even after growth in
consumer prices accelerated in August for the first time in
seven months. The government doesn’t see an urgent need for the
central bank to adjust its reference rate, Bambang Brodjonegoro,
head of fiscal policy at the  finance ministry , said last month.  “The central bank doesn’t just look at the inflation
factor but also economic growth to decide on interest rates,”
said Felix Sindhunata, an economist at PT Henan Putihrai in
Jakarta. “This month, BI will hold the rate unchanged to keep
the economic growth momentum.”  Philippine Rate  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will maintain its benchmark
rate at 4.5 percent for a third straight meeting, all 15
economists surveyed predict.  Bank Negara Malaysia  will hold its
benchmark rate at 3 percent, according to all 18 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Inflation in the two Southeast Asian economies is easing
after policy makers raised borrowing costs and banks’ reserve
requirements earlier this year.  Monetary policy will be “supportive of growth” on signs
inflation pressures have moderated, and the central bank doesn’t
see an urgent need to adjust its policy stance, Philippine
central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said yesterday.  Malaysia’s economy grew at the slowest pace since 2009 last
quarter, and central bank Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said last
month the benchmark overnight policy rate at 3 percent remains
supportive of growth.  The Bank of  Thailand  was split at its Aug. 24 meeting with
two out of seven members saying risks of a global recession and
the impact on the Thai economy was “material enough” to
justify a pause. Still, the central bank raised its policy rate
for the seventh straight time to 3.5 percent as the rest of the
members viewed domestic inflation risks as remaining elevated,
according to its minutes released  today .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  