-- 
AT&T Is Said Able to Cut T-Mobile Bid Price If Remedies Grow

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 
2011-09-07T20:42:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/at-t-said-able-to-reduce-t-mobile-bid-price-if-remedies-grow-too-costly.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  can lower the price it
pays for T-Mobile USA Inc. if the remedies requested by
regulators become too expensive, according to three people with
direct knowledge of the purchase contract.  AT&T would be able to pay less than the deal’s original $39
billion value if regulators demand asset sales that surpass 20
percent of that figure, or about $7.8 billion, said the people,
who declined to be identified because some contract details
aren’t public. AT&T could walk away from the deal and pay T-
Mobile owner  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  a breakup fee if the
concessions requested top 40 percent of that value, they said.  AT&T is fighting to salvage its bid to acquire T-Mobile and
become the largest U.S. wireless operator after the Justice
Department sued on Aug. 31 to stop the deal. The contract
clauses may provide Dallas-based AT&T a means to get some T-
Mobile assets at a lower price, even if it can’t get as many
wireless customers or as much spectrum as originally planned.  “It would not be rational for Deutsche Telekom to
negotiate from a point of weakness, which they would appear to
be in should the existing deal fail,” Robin Bienenstock, an
analyst at Sanford C Bernstein in London, wrote in a note. “T-
Mobile USA could be an asset valuable to many, and with his term
recently renewed as CEO Mr. Obermann has every reason to play
the long game, rebuild negotiating strength through business
momentum and look for better value in 18-24 months time.”  Expedited Hearing  AT&T rose 30 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $28.13 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange trading and has declined 4.3 percent
this year. Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom, led by CEO Rene Obermann
since 2006, climbed 20 cents, or 2.5 percent, to 8.44 euros in
Frankfurt.  Michael Buckley, a spokesman for AT&T, declined to comment
on the contract details. Andreas Fuchs, a Deutsche Telekom
spokesman, also said the company won’t comment on additional
contract details.  AT&T said it will fight the Justice Department in court and
has asked for an expedited hearing for the case. The company
also plans to propose remedies that would make the takeover more
acceptable to the agency, a person familiar with the company’s
strategy said last week.  According to a March 21 regulatory filing from AT&T, the
company doesn’t have to agree to divestitures and other
regulatory conditions that would have an adverse effect greater
than $7.8 billion. The document contains a formula to calculate
the adverse effect of each divestiture of subscribers and
spectrum.  Threshold Value  The formula takes into account certain conditions,
including cellular market area covered by a wireless license and
spectrum megahertz, in determining whether the threshold has
been reached. Depending on those variables, defined in the non-
public part of the contract, the actual threshold after which
AT&T can drop its bid for T-Mobile is twice the $7.8 billion
stated in the public part of the filing, said one of the people
familiar with the situation.  AT&T agreed to compensate Deutsche Telekom with $3 billion
in cash, as well as wireless spectrum and roaming agreements if
the deal isn’t completed. Deutsche Telekom has also said it will
work to close the deal. The companies also need approval from
the Federal Communications Commission to complete their
agreement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 