-- 
Australian Central Bank Holds Key Rate, Citing ‘Unsettled’ Global Markets

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-09-06T05:47:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/australia-holds-benchmark-rate-at-4-75-citing-unsettled-global-markets.html
The  Reserve Bank  of Australia left
its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a ninth straight
meeting, citing unstable financial markets and weaker growth
prospects at home and abroad.  Governor  Glenn Stevens  held the overnight cash rate target
at 4.75 percent, saying in a statement released today in Perth
that “global financial markets have been very unsettled over
recent weeks.” The extended pause on rates matched the
prediction of all 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Australian employers added 41,400 jobs during the first
seven months of the year, the weakest January-July period since
2003, as a rising currency hurts manufacturers including
BlueScope Steel Ltd. Stevens’s decision to maintain the
developed world’s highest borrowing costs reflects a slower
global economy that’s dimming the domestic outlook.  “It’s a step in the dovish direction,” said  Brian
Redican , senior economist in Sydney at Macquarie Group Ltd.,
Australia’s biggest investment bank, who predicts the RBA’s next
move will be a rate cut. “I still think there needs to be a bit
more water under the bridge before they start debating a rate
cut, but I think we’ve taken one small step in that direction
today.”  Currency Reaction  The Australian dollar maintained declines after the
decision, trading at $1.0508 at 3:45 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0551
yesterday and $1.0510 before it was announced. Interbank cash-
rate futures show investors bet Stevens will cut rates by 75
basis points by December.  Australia’s economy expanded 1 percent last quarter,
according to the median of 25 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey before a government report tomorrow, after contracting
1.2 percent in the previous three months as mines and farmland
were inundated in floods, hurting exports.  The rebound is being driven by A$82.1 billion of projected
mining investment in the 12 months ending June 30, 45 percent
higher than last fiscal year, as companies such as BHP Billiton
Ltd. seek to meet demand from China and  India  for coal,  iron ore 
and natural gas.  “Investment in the resources sector is picking up very
strongly and some related service sectors are enjoying better-
than-average conditions,” Stevens said today.  “In other
sectors, cautious behavior by households and the high level of
the  exchange rate  are having a noticeable dampening effect.”  Stevens’s Speech  Stevens is scheduled to address the Western Australian
Chambers of Commerce and Minerals & Energy in Perth tomorrow.  Australia’s jobless rate rose to 5.1 percent in July as
employment dropped by 100 workers that month. A report Sept. 8
may show unemployment stayed at that level last month, with the
number of workers increasing by 10,000, according to the median
estimate of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  BlueScope, Qantas Airways Ltd. and Westpac Banking Corp.
all announced plans last month to trim their workforces as
Australian consumers retrench.  Even so, the central bank’s two preferred measures of
annual inflation accelerated to 2.7 percent in the second
quarter, compared with a gain of about 2.3 percent in the first
quarter. The RBA aims to keep underlying inflation in a range of
2 percent to 3 percent on average.  “The board remains concerned about the medium-term outlook
for inflation,” Stevens said today. “A key question will be
the extent to which softer global and domestic growth will work,
in due course, to contain inflation.”  Stronger Currency  The RBA has relied on the Australian dollar’s strength to
temper gains in consumer prices. The local currency has risen
about 15 percent in the past year and reached $1.1081 on July
27, the highest level since it was freely floated in 1983.  “The solid outlook for Australia’s major trading partners
means the next move is more likely to be up than down,” said
 Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific research at TD Securities
in  Singapore .  Since the RBA’s Aug. 2 meeting, when a rate increase was
discussed as an option, reports have shown the first increase in
unemployment in nine months and  consumer confidence  falling to a
two-year low. Adding to concern that inflation will quicken were
a government report Aug. 17 showing Australian wages
accelerating and Sept. 1 figures showing stronger-than-forecast
retail sales in July.  Testifying Aug. 26 to a parliamentary panel, Stevens said
the RBA’s board last month “judged the most prudent course was
to sit still through this period, in spite of inflation data
that, on their face, continue to be concerning.”  U.S. Concern  Clouding the outlook is concern the world’s largest economy
is slowing. Employment in the U.S. unexpectedly stagnated in
August as employers became less confident in the strength of the
recovery, and the jobless rate held at 9.1 percent, according to
a Sept. 2 report.  In  Europe , there’s little sign of a rebound.  France ’s
economy stalled in the second quarter,  Germany ’s expanded 0.1
percent and the U.K.’s gross domestic product grew 0.2 percent.
Joblessness is rising from  Russia  to  Belgium .  Household spending accounts for 55 percent of  Australia ’s
economy, and the central bank sought to restrain consumption
with 175 basis points of rate increases from October 2009 to
November. That was the most aggressive tightening for a
developed economy coming out of the 2009 global recession.  “They’ve gone from debating whether to hike rates in
August to firmly thinking rates are on hold in September and
they are becoming more cautious about the global outlook,”
Redican said, referring to RBA policy makers. “That said, their
discussion on Australia is still quite robust.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  