-- 
Australian Home-Loan Approvals Rise Less Than Expected as Rates on Hold

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-09-06T01:39:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/australian-home-loan-approvals-rise-less-than-expected-as-rates-on-hold.html
Australian home-loan approvals rose
less than economists forecast in July as central bank Governor
 Glenn Stevens  held  interest rates  at the highest level among
developed countries.  The number of loans granted to build or buy houses and
apartments gained 1 percent from June, when they increased a
revised 0.6 percent, the statistics bureau said in Sydney today.
That compares with the median estimate for approvals to rise 1.5
percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 19 economists.  Stevens will hold the nation’s benchmark rate at 4.75
percent today after boosting borrowing costs seven times from
October 2009 to November to prevent a property-market bubble
from forming in a nation where more than two-thirds of
households own their homes. An index measuring the weighted
average of prices for established houses in eight major cities
declined 0.1 percent last quarter to the lowest level since 2009.  “Data on housing finance has weakened over the last three
months as effective demand for owner occupier dwellings has
eased,”  Paul Brennan , a senior economist at Citigroup Inc. in
Sydney, wrote in a research report before today’s report. “It
is difficult to see this trend changing while housing related
credit growth remains stuck in a narrow range.”  The total value of loans rose 1.6 percent to A$20.6 billion
($21.7 billion) in July, today’s report showed.  The value of lending to owner-occupiers gained 1.4 percent,
the report showed. The value of loans to investors who plan to
rent or resell homes advanced 1.9 percent.  First-home buyers accounted for 15.2 percent of dwellings
that were financed in July, unchanged from June and lower than
15.9 percent a year earlier, the report showed today.  Australian unemployment unexpectedly jumped to an eight-
month high of 5.1 percent in July as hiring stalled. The 41,400
net job gain from January through July was the weakest first
seven months of the year since 2003.  A government report on Aug. 2 showed  house prices  fell 1
percent in Perth and dropped 1.6 percent in Darwin from the
previous quarter, while they advanced 0.4 percent in Sydney and
gained 1.1 percent in Canberra. In  Melbourne , prices slipped 0.1
percent.  A jump in  home prices  was among reasons Stevens increased
the benchmark rate by 175 basis points from October 2009 to
November last year.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  