-- 
Avoid Indian Metal, Property, Bank Stocks, MAPE Securities Says

-- B y   T a n y a   A s h r e e n a
-- 
2011-09-06T07:18:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/avoid-indian-metal-property-bank-stocks-mape-securities-says.html
Samir Gilani, the Mumbai-based head
of equities at MAPE Securities Pvt., comments on the outlook for
the Indian stocks. He spoke by phone.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, lost
0.4 percent to 16,655.54 at 12:37 p.m. local time.  The measure slid 8.4 percent last month, the worst August
in at least a decade.  On markets:  “There’s an environment of slowing growth and inflation at
high levels, which is not a good combination. That’s the reason
why markets are hesitant to take an aggressive view. The latest
food-price index numbers were not comforting, and inflation is a
concern. Investment activity has come to a standstill. Until
now, the consumption cycle helped us maintain the bull run. If
you look at auto- and- retail sales, the consumption binge is
reducing and that is going to lead to a stronger slowdown.”  On investments:  “There is more pain to come. Investors should wait till
the correction is done and there are more data points to confirm
things are looking better around the world. Investors should see
whether things in  Europe  and the U.S. economic data are getting
better, and if there is two-to-three months of downward
inflation in  India . Once these things come through, then
investors can start increasing their weight in equities.”  On stocks recommendation:  “Investors should look at individual stocks with free
cashflows, good domestic exposure and dividends.  Hero Honda ,
Colgate, Asian Paints and Mahindra & Mahindra are looking good.
The commodity-side is not looking good because commodities are
under pressure by economies around the world. There is also
excess capacity, which will take a while to fill up. Pharma
stocks are delivering good returns.  ‘‘Investors should avoid metals, real estate and banking.
Banks are struggling to maintain margins. This is especially
true of banks that don’t have a large percentage of their income
coming from other-income activities. Real estate is not looking
good because of high  interest rates , inventories and some loss
of pricing power among developers. A lot of promoter issues
inherent in these companies are now being looked at more
strongly.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Ashreena in Mumbai at 
 tashreena@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  