-- 
Hayward’s Vallares Said to Plan Deal With Genel Enerji This Week

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-09-06T16:55:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/hayward-s-vallares-said-to-plan-deal-with-genel-enerji-this-week.html
Vallares Plc, the investment vehicle
led by BP Plc’s former Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward ,
plans to buy into Turkish oil explorer Genel Enerji, a person
familiar with the matter said.  A deal may be announced as soon as this week, the person
said, declining to be identified before an official statement.
Genel is a Turkish oil-exploration business with assets in the
semi-autonomous Kurdish region of northern  Iraq . Vallares co-
founder Julian Metherell wasn’t immediately available for
comment. Calls to Genel’s office in Ankara were unanswered after
normal business hours.  Vallares raised 1.35 billion pounds ($2.2 billion) in a
London initial public offering in June and said it would seek to
buy a company with an enterprise value of 3 billion to 8 billion
pounds within two years. Reuters reported earlier that Vallares
would buy into Genel in a deal valuing the target at about $4
billion.  Vallares was started by Hayward, former Goldman Sachs Inc.
banker Metherell and financiers  Nathaniel Rothschild  and Tom
Daniel, who contributed 100 million pounds between them. The
company represents a comeback for Hayward, who left BP last year
after the worst  oil spill  in U.S. history.  The Vallares listing received the most support from funds
in the U.S. and the U.K., and some sovereign wealth funds in the
 Middle East  are also represented on the register, Metherell said
June 17.  Vallares is modeled on Rothschild’s Vallar Plc, which
raised 707.2 million pounds in an IPO last year to buy mining
and commodity assets. Vallar agreed in November to invest $3
billion in Indonesian coal companies PT Bumi Resources and PT
Berau Coal Energy in a stock and cash transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  