-- 
Bachmann Targets Obama on Constitution at DeMint-Sponsored Candidate Forum

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-09-06T17:18:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/bachmann-targets-obama-on-constitution-at-demint-sponsored-forum.html
Republican presidential candidate
Michele Bachmann said President Barack Obama has skirted the
U.S. Constitution on several fronts, as she and rivals in the
race to challenge him next year courted support from Tea Party
activists at a forum yesterday in South Carolina.  Bachmann criticized Obama for the health-care overhaul he
helped shepherd into law last year, saying it paves the way for
“socialized medicine.” She also attacked his hiring of high-
level advisers -- sometimes called “czars” -- who aren’t
vetted by Congress, and his refusal to defend federal marriage
and immigration laws, as she billed herself the “constitutional
conservative” in the Republican race.  “The current United States government and its framework is
acting outside of the bounds of the Constitution,” Bachmann,
55, a Minnesota congresswoman, said at the gathering in the
state that holds one of the nomination contest’s earliest
primaries.  The event in Columbia, the state’s capital, was organized
by Republican Senator Jim DeMint of South Carolina, a fiscal and
social conservative who draws support from Tea Party adherents,
as well as Representative Steve King, an Iowa Republican and
another of the movement’s favorites.  Power Issue  Though much of the campaign’s debate so far has focused on
the struggling U.S. economy and the nation’s 9.1 percent
unemployment rate, the forum spotlighted questions about
governmental power, the Constitution and the Supreme Court,
issues that animate the Tea Party movement. It also featured
discussions of social issues, including abortion and marriage.  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney joined in
questioning Obama’s adherence to the Constitution, saying he
doesn’t think “I’ve ever seen an administration that’s gone
further afield” from it.  “The reason I see us struggling economically is because
Washington has become too assertive, too big, too demanding on
the lives of the American people,” said Romney, 64, calling the
health-care measure the worst example of that.  Romney has drawn criticism from fiscal conservatives for
having signed a health-care law in Massachusetts that, like the
national law, mandates insurance coverage.  ‘Bad Law’  Questioned about that overlap by DeMint, Romney said the
health-care issue would be “one of my best assets” in drawing
contrasts with Obama, whose plan he said was
“unconstitutional” as well as “bad law.” He has defended the
Massachusetts measure as appropriate for his state, and not a
template for the rest of the nation.  Participating in the forum with Bachmann and Romney were
Representative Ron Paul of Texas, former House Speaker Newt Gingrich of Georgia and businessman Herman Cain. Each spoke
separately and fielded questions from a three-member panel
including DeMint and King.  Texas Governor Rick Perry, 61, who polls show has surged to
frontrunner status among Republicans following his entrance into
the race last month, pulled out of the event hours before it
began, saying he needed to return home to deal with wildfires
that are ravaging the drought-stricken state.  “He needed to be back in Texas,” DeMint said before the
forum’s start, announcing Perry’s absence. “They’ve got a bad
situation that’s getting worse.”  Palin  Absent from the stage was Sarah Palin, who reinvigorated
speculation about her presidential ambitions with appearances in
Iowa on Sept. 3 -- where she declared there’s “room for more”
Republican presidential contenders -- and New Hampshire
yesterday.  Palin was invited to the forum while two other declared
candidates, former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman and former
Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum, weren’t because they haven’t
drawn enough support in public polls, according to the event’s
organizers.  The forum kicked off a month featuring three candidate
debates in the Republican race. The first takes place tomorrow
at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley,
California.  Yesterday’s gathering offered its participants the chance
to hone their messages to Tea Party-aligned voters, whose
influence helped create the wave that gave Republicans control
of the House in last year’s elections and could sway the
presidential race.  ‘Greatest Weakness’  Leading conservatives attended at DeMint’s invitation. One
of the guests, Virginia Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli, said
following the forum that Romney has “got to square up a lot of
inconsistencies” in his record. “That’s his greatest
weakness,” Cuccinelli said.  Romney, who earlier planned to skip the event, rearranged
his Labor Day weekend schedule to appear. In a sign of the
skepticism he faces from some conservatives who suspect he
doesn’t share their views, the Tea Party-affiliated group
FreedomWorks objected to his appearance yesterday prior to the
forum at a rally in Concord, New Hampshire, that was sponsored
by the Tea Party Express.  Romney led the Republican field in polls before Perry
entered the race.  Rounding out the questioners at yesterday’s forum was
Robert George, a Princeton University professor and co-founder
of the National Organization for Marriage, a group opposing
allowing gays to wed.  Roe vs. Wade  Questioned by George, all the candidates except Romney said
that as president they would push legislation to end abortion
rights in the U.S., using the 14th amendment equal-protection
guarantee to overturn the 1973 Roe v. Wade Supreme Court
decision that established those rights.  Romney said he would support overturning the Roe decision
and sending the question of abortion rights to the states. “I’m
not looking to create a constitutional crisis,” Romney said.  Gingrich said abortion was just one area “where the courts
have now dramatically usurped their power,” adding that
Congress should limit the judiciary’s right to review certain
matters.  Bachmann, who helped start a charter school in Minnesota
before winning her House seat in 2006, pinpointed education as
an area where the federal government has overreached. “The
Constitution does not specifically enumerate, nor does it give
to the federal government, the role and duty to superintend over
education,” she said. “That historically has been held by the
parents and by local communities and by state government.”  Running Mates  She also said she would “without a doubt” choose a vice
presidential running mate who shared her opposition to abortion
rights and belief in traditional marriage. Cain, Gingrich and
Paul also flatly vowed to do so, while Romney said, “I
certainly imagine so.”  Shortly after the forum ended, Bachmann campaign manager Ed Rollins said he was stepping down from the post. Rollins, 68,
told CNN that while he “hasn’t got the energy” for the demands
of running a presidential campaign, he would continue to serve
Bachmann as an adviser.  Bachmann in a statement expressed her gratitude for
Rollins’s “guidance and leadership,” and said she is “fortunate
to retain his valuable advice even though his health no longer
permits him to oversee the day-to-day operations” of her
presidential bid. She said strategist Keith Nahigian would serve
as the campaign’s interim manager.  ‘Up For Grabs’  Paul said at the forum that virtually all of government
should be sharply restricted. “Everything should be up for
grabs, and it should be grossly reduced,” he said, blaming both
political parties for expanding government “endlessly” for
decades.  Paul and Cain said the government should return to a gold
standard or some other means of bolstering the dollar’s value.  “We have got to get back to sound money -- our dollar is
suffering,” Cain said. “We’ve got to get back to a dollar is a
dollar is a dollar.”  The forum was a chance for DeMint, 60, to help frame the
narrative of the 2012 elections. As part of his efforts to set
his party’s political agenda, his political action committee --
the Senate Conservatives Fund -- helped elect five Republicans
to the chamber in 2010 who he billed as “true conservatives.”
The fund had raised $2.3 million as of July 31, according to the
Federal Election Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Columbia, S.C. at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  