-- 
Banks Cut Estimate for Funding Need After Rules Are Delayed

-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 
2011-09-06T17:02:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/banks-lower-estimate-for-funding-need-after-rules-are-postponed.html
A bank lobbying group cut its
estimate of financial institutions’ funding needs in the next
four years by 85 percent after global regulators postponed
implementation of new rules and lending declined.  Banks worldwide will have to sell $816 billion of
additional long-term debt through 2015, according to a  study 
released today by the  Institute of International Finance  in
Washington. That compares with the organization’s June 2010
estimate of $5.4 trillion.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , under pressure
from European and U.S. banks, delayed the effective date of a
long-term liquidity standard until 2018. The committee also
softened the standard after financial firms said that increased
funding costs for them would mean higher  interest rates  for
companies and consumers, stifling the global economic recovery.  The liquidity rules didn’t exist until regulators and
central bankers from 27 nations that make up the Basel committee
completed them in December. The short-term standard requires
banks to have enough cash or easily cashable assets to meet debt
coming due in a month and the long-term rule aims to ensure
funding needs for the next 12 months are met through assets that
can be sold quickly.  ‘Further Pressure’  The institute, whose 440 members include the world’s
largest banks, tweaked its estimate of the regulatory impact on
global growth. Tighter capital standards by the Basel committee
as well as banking reforms passed in the U.S., U.K. and other
nations will reduce gross domestic product by 3.2 percent in the
U.S., euro region and  Japan  by 2015, the institute said today.
Its estimate last year was 3.1 percent.  Global regulators should make sure the requirements don’t
stall the economic recovery,  Charles Dallara , the institute’s
managing director, said at a news conference today.  “Do we want a regulatory reform process at this point in
2011 that adds further pressure to that process of
deleveraging?” Dallara said. “That would not be the wisest
course.”  Banks will need to raise an additional $1.3 trillion in
core tier 1 capital by 2015, an increase of more than 5 percent,
according to the study. The lenders face “market pressure” to
raise capital even before 2018, Dallara said.  “The macro-economic impact of additional regulatory
measures under discussion” should be a “major consideration
for governments and regulatory authorities,”  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann , 63, who chairs the
institute, said in a statement accompanying the report.  Academic Research  A study last year by the Basel committee and the
 International Monetary Fund  found the impact on those nations’
economies to be about an eighth of the IIF estimate.  Academic research also dismissed the banks’ claim that
increased capital requirements lead to higher lending rates. A
July 2010 paper by Jeremy Stein, an economics professor at
 Harvard University , and two colleagues analyzed data dating back
to the 1920s and found no correlation between higher  capital
ratios  and costlier lending by banks. An October 2010 paper by
Anat Admati of  Stanford University  and three colleagues
concluded that increased equity levels don’t restrict lending.  The institute softened its prediction of how the new
banking rules would hurt employment in the U.S. and other
countries included in the study. The slower economic growth
would translate into about 7.5 million fewer jobs created over
the five-year period than would otherwise be the case, the
organization said, down from its 2010 estimate of 9.7 million.  Regulators and policy makers worldwide introduced rules
requiring banks to hold more and better capital and liquidity
reserves after the worst financial downturn since the Great
Depression. The crisis, which started with the bursting of the
U.S. housing bubble, led to more than $2 trillion in writedowns
and losses at global financial institutions and hundreds of
billions of dollars of taxpayer bailouts.  -- With assistance from  Rebecca Christie  in Brussels. Editors:
Peter Eichenbaum, Dan Reichl  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yalman Onaran in New York at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter at @Yalman_BN;
Clea Benson in  Washington  at 
 cbenson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  