-- 
Banks, AT&T, BP-Halliburton, DuPont, Clemens in Court News

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-09-06T10:56:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/banks-at-t-bp-halliburton-dupont-roger-clemens-in-court-news.html
The Federal Housing Finance Agency
has sued Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  over residential mortgage-backed
securities.  In lawsuits filed Sept. 2 in Manhattan federal court, the
agency, representing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, also named as
defendants Nomura Holdings Ltd., HSBC Holdings Plc and Credit
Suisse Group AG.  The FHFA has been demanding refunds from banks for loans
sold to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that were based on false or
missing information about borrowers and properties. The two
government-backed mortgage finance firms had to be rescued by
taxpayers as defaults on home loans soared toward record levels.  The agency said in its filings on Sept. 2 that Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac bought $6 billion in securities from Bank of
America; $24.8 billion from Merrill, which Bank of America
bought, and $3.5 billion from Citigroup.  The FHFA sued UBS AG, Switzerland’s biggest bank, in July
over $4.5 billion in residential mortgage-backed securities sold
to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, claiming they misstated the risks
of the investments. The suit seeks unspecified damages.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have operated under U.S.
conservatorship since 2008, when they were seized amid subprime
mortgage losses that pushed them toward insolvency.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Citigroup, declined to comment on the lawsuit as did Kerrie Cohen, a spokeswoman for Barclays, and Kristin Lemkau, a
spokeswoman for JPMorgan.  For more, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Clemens Will Be Retried on Perjury Charges, U.S. Judge Rules  Former Major League Baseball pitcher Roger Clemens will
face another trial on charges that he lied to Congress about
using steroids and performance-enhancing drugs, a federal judge
in Washington said.  In his ruling from the bench on Sept. 2, U.S. District
Judge Reggie Walton said Clemens can be tried again because he
couldn’t determine, based on the record, that prosecutors
intentionally caused a mistrial in July by showing jurors barred
evidence. The government was two days into presenting its case
at the time. Walton, ruling from the bench, set jury selection
for April 17.  Clemens’ lawyer, Rusty Hardin, said they would decide
within days whether to seek an immediate appeal of Walton’s
ruling.  For more, click here.  AT&T May Have Misread The U.S. Justice Department’s Signals  On the morning of Aug. 31,  AT&T Inc. (T)  Chief Executive
Officer Randall Stephenson said in a television interview that
he expected his company’s bid for T-Mobile USA to get government
approval by the first quarter of 2012.  An hour later, his lawyers received a call from the U.S.
Justice Department; the lawyers learned that the government was
suing to block the $39 billion transaction, a person familiar
with the matter said. The suit halted the biggest deal of the
year.  The sudden turnaround occurred because the Justice
Department came to a meeting on Aug. 30 looking for AT&T to
describe how it would eliminate perceived anticompetitive
defects in the proposed merger. That didn’t happen, said another
person involved in the meeting; AT&T was under the impression
that it would have more time to present ideas that would assuage
the government’s reservations about the deal, another person
involved in the discussions said.  The Justice Department concluded the companies on the other
side of the table weren’t responding to concerns that the deal
would hurt competition and raise consumer prices in the wireless
phone market, a person familiar with the decision said.  Skepticism in the antitrust division had been building for
weeks as a technical review of national and local markets showed
the merger to be highly anticompetitive, said the person, who
asked not to be identified, as did all others quoted
anonymously, because the talks were confidential.  Jessica Smith, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment on the details of the meeting or the decision as did
Brad Burns, an AT&T spokesman in Dallas and T-Mobile spokeswoman
Anna Friedges.  The case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-01560, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  Foreign Funds, Banks Claim Picard Cannot Use U.S. Law Abroad  Foreign companies sued for billions of dollars by the
liquidator of Bernard L. Madoff’s firm are asking judges to
dismiss the cases, saying trustee Irving H. Picard is breaking
U.S. law in trying to apply it abroad.  Tensyr Ltd., a Channel Islands company that invested $450
million in a so-called feeder fund to the confidence man, said
in a filing Sept. 1 in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York that
Picard ignored a ruling by the U.S. Supreme Court when he
demanded return of $30 million redeemed from the feeder,
Fairfield Sentry Ltd.  Italy’s UniCredit SpA asked the New York court to dismiss a
racketeering suit seeking $59 billion from it and defendants
including Bank Medici AG founder Sonja Kohn.  “The trustee’s extreme positions are irreconcilable with
recent decisions of the United States Supreme Court,” Tensyr
said. “The Supreme Court recently overruled prior case law and
held that United States statutes do not apply
extraterritorially.”  The tack taken by Picard’s foreign targets is another
challenge to the trustee, who is fighting a July ruling by U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan that tossed out almost $9
billion of the trustee’s common law claims against HSBC Holdings
Plc and feeder funds.  Rakoff said Picard can’t sue parties that allegedly had a
duty to detect Madoff’s fraud.  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The Tensyr case is Picard v. Natixis, 10-05353, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Madoff Trustee Defends $19 Billion Suit Against JPMorgan  Separately, Picard defended a $19 billion lawsuit against
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , saying he was empowered by law to sue the
bank on behalf of innocent creditors of the Ponzi scheme
operator.  The second-biggest U.S. bank asked a judge last month to
dismiss trustee Irving Picard’s suit, citing U.S. District Judge
Jed Rakoff’s July ruling that he can’t sue on behalf of Madoff
customers using common-law claims against parties who failed to
detect the fraud. Picard, who appealed the ruling, said
bankruptcy law gives him the powers necessary to bring his suit.  “The bankruptcy code allows the trustee to stand in the
shoes of a judgment creditor and assert common-law claims
against JPMC,” he said in a court filing Sept. 1. JPMorgan, as
Madoff’s primary banker, was central to the fraud and
“complicit” in it, he said.  Picard, in his fight with Rakoff and JPMorgan, is defending
his right to demand most of the $100 billion he is seeking from
banks and Madoff investors. Rakoff tossed almost $9 billion in
damages Picard sought from  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and feeder funds,
leaving $2 billion in bankruptcy claims. If forced to give up
common-law claims against JPMorgan, Picard would lose his right
to seek $19 billion and be left to pursue $1 billion in
bankruptcy and other claims.  JPMorgan, which accuses the trustee of mounting a “back
door” class-action suit on behalf of Madoff clients, said last
month that Picard’s suit never shows how JPMorgan was complicit
in Madoff’s crimes.  “The trustee never alleges facts showing that anyone at
JPMorgan had actual knowledge of Madoff’s crimes,” it said,
asking Judge Colleen McMahon, who is handling the case, to toss
it out.  The case is Picard v. JPMorgan Chase & Co., 1:11-cv-00913,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Allen Stanford to Get Financial Records for Ponzi Defense  Indicted financier R. Allen Stanford will get copies of his
seized personal and corporate tax returns and financial records
to defend himself against criminal charges he swindled investors
of $7 billion, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge David Hittner in Houston on Sept. 2
denied Stanford’s additional request for copies of analytical
reports the accounting firm Ernst & Young prepared for Ralph Janvey, the financier’s court-appointed receiver.  Kevin Sadler, Janvey’s lawyer, argued that Stanford was
entitled only to his basic tax and accounting records, not the
receiver’s analyses.  The government claims Stanford defrauded investors by
deceiving them about the liquidity and oversight of more than $7
billion in certificates of deposit issued by his Antigua-based
Stanford International Bank Ltd. Stanford denies all wrongdoing.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  DuPont Sues Heraeus Over Patent for Solar-Cell Technology  DuPont Co., the largest U.S. chemical company by market
value, sued Germany’s Heraeus Holding GmbH, alleging
infringement of a U.S. patent for material used in building
solar cells.  Heraeus, of Hanau, Germany, owes DuPont damages for using
the technology, which includes a conductive paste of silver,
glass and resin, lawyers said in a complaint filed in federal
court in Wilmington, Delaware, Sept. 2.  The infringement “will continue to cause DuPont
irreparable injury and damage” unless stopped by the court,
according to court papers. The Wilmington-based company also
seeks a jury trial.  “DuPont invests significant resources and millions of
dollars in research,” said David B. Miller, president of DuPont
Electronics & Communications, in a statement. “We will continue
to take appropriate actions to protect our patent estate.”  “We do not have any information on this case at the
moment. No lawsuit has been officially served,” Martina Rauch,
a Heraeus spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is DuPont v. Heraeus Holding, 11CV773, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To see the patent, click: 7,767,254.  BP Concealed Information Before Blowout, Halliburton Claims  BP Plc (BP/)  gave inaccurate information about the location of
hydrocarbon zones, a risk factor, in the Macondo oil well to
avoid stalling the project before the well blew out in April
2010,  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  said in a lawsuit.  Halliburton Energy Services Inc., the unit that provided
cementing services for the well, sued BP in state court in
Houston Sept. 1, alleging slander and business disparagement. A
BP report on the incident in the Gulf of Mexico called the
cementing job “a root cause of the blowout,” Halliburton said
in its complaint.  The report “intentionally and deliberately omits the
critical fact that BP knew or should have known about an
additional hydrocarbon zone in the well that BP failed to
disclose” before Halliburton designed the cement program for
the well, according to the complaint. Halliburton said it
wouldn’t have pumped cement had it known of the zone.  BP, in a statement on Sept. 2, said, “This lawsuit is the
latest attempt by Halliburton to divert attention from its role
in the Deepwater Horizon incident and its failure to meet its
responsibilities, and to deflect all blame to BP.”  The Houston case is Halliburton Energy Services Inc. v. BP
Exploration & Production Inc., 2011-525809, District Court,
Harris County, Texas. The federal case is In Re Oil Spill by the
Oil Rig Deepwater Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20,
2010, MDL-2179, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  Court Filings  Schwab Suit Over Libor Rates Most Popular Docket on Bloomberg  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW) ’s lawsuit accusing Bank of America
Corp.,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and other banks of manipulating the London
interbank offered rate, or Libor was the most-read litigation
docket on the Bloomberg Law system last week.  Schwab, the largest independent brokerage by client assets,
claims that the banks, starting in 2007, conspired to depress
Libor rates by understating their borrowing costs. The lawsuit
was filed Aug. 23 in federal court in San Francisco, where
Schwab is based.  The banks “reaped hundreds of millions, if not billions,
of dollars in ill-gotten gains,” Schwab wrote.  “We believe the suit is without merit,” Danielle Romero- Apsilos, a spokeswoman for New York-based Citigroup, said in an
e-mail.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment.  The case is Schwab Money Market Fund v.  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , 11-cv-4186, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 