-- 
Basel Group Weighs ‘Unintended Consequences’ of Liquidity Rules

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-09-06T10:18:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/basel-group-weighs-unintended-consequences-of-liquidity-rules.html
Global bank regulators are examining
planned liquidity rules to guard against possible “unintended
consequences” of the measures designed to protect lenders from
another credit crunch.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  has started a
second study into the likely impact of the liquidity rules and
asked banks to submit data to national supervisors to help
assess whether they should be revised, said Stefan Walter, the
secretary general of the group. The results will be given to
national watchdogs in the first quarter of 2012, he said.  “We are going to be looking over the course of next year”
at “whether there are any unintended consequences,” Walter
said in a phone interview. The process will be “reinforced
through the impact assessment and quantitative impact study,”
he said. “Only based on that analysis will we reach decisions
on making any changes.”  The liquidity rules, which include requiring banks to hold
enough easily saleable assets to survive a 30-day credit crunch,
and to have minimum amounts of long-term stable funding, are
part of the last year’s Basel III deal to bolster the defenses
of the world’s financial system. At the end of 2009, lenders had
a 1.73 trillion-euro ($2.45 trillion) gap in the assets
necessary to meet one of the measures known as the liquidity
coverage ratio, LCR, according to an earlier Basel impact study
published in December.  The requirements have triggered unease among some banks and
regulators, which have warned that the range of assets that can
be used to satisfy the LCR is too narrow and overly focused on
 government bonds .  Observation Period  The Basel committee said in December that it would conduct
an “observation period” on the rule until mid-2013 and
address “unintended consequences as necessary.” The LCR is
scheduled to enter into force on Jan. 1, 2015.  The Financial Times reported earlier that “global bank
regulators” are preparing to “ease” the LCR requirements.  “No one has submitted to the Basel committee a concrete
proposal for how to change the LCR,” Walter said. The topic
won’t be on the agenda of the committee’s next meeting on
Sept. 27-28, he said.  The committee will “continue to analyze the issues in a
deliberative way over the observation period,” Walter said.  According to data from the end of 2010, European banks
would have faced a 493 billion-euro shortfall in the highly
liquid assets needed to meet the LCR, analysts at JP Morgan
Cazenove said in a note dated today. Out of the 28 lenders
surveyed for the report, only seven would have been able to meet
the LCR requirements.  France, Germany and  Denmark  are among countries to have
called for the 27-nation European Union to make changes to the
LCR when the region incorporates Basel III into its laws.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  