-- 
Berlusconi Holds Confidence Vote on Austerity Plan After Bond Yields Surge

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-09-07T14:44:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/berlusconi-cabinet-will-call-for-confidence-vote-on-revised-austerity-plan.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s revised 54 billion-euro ($76 billion) austerity
plan faces a confidence vote in the Senate today that aims to
stem a surge in bond yields after lawmakers watered down the
package last week.  The Senate will begin a roll-call vote at around 7 p.m. on
the plan, which was changed again yesterday to compensate for
other measures dropped this month. The package now includes an
increase in value-added tax by one percentage point to 21
percent, a 3 percent levy on incomes over 300,000 euros and a
higher  retirement age  for women.  The measures were approved by the Cabinet yesterday after
Italians took to the streets in a general strike to protest the
plan, and following weeks of government bickering that stoked
concern among investors and European leaders that Italy may
struggle to tame  Europe ’s second-biggest debt burden. The
confidence vote was forced by the “seriousness of the global
financial crisis,” Berlusconi’s office said in a statement.  “The last-minute measures may not do much to improve
investor confidence in the government and its handling of the
crisis,”  Gary Jenkins , a strategist at Evolution Securities in
 London , said in a note to investors today.  The premium investors demand to hold Italian 10-year bonds
instead of benchmark German bunds dropped for a second day,
falling 29 basis points to 335, after soaring to a four-week
high of 378 basis points on Sept. 5, the highest since before
the  European Central Bank  started buying Italian bonds on Aug. 8
after Berlusconi announced the budget measures.  Second in a Month  The austerity package, the second in a month, was announced
on Aug. 5 to convince the ECB to buy bonds after contagion from
the region’s debt crisis sent the 10-year yield to a euro-era
record 6.4 percent. The plan set a goal for balancing the budget
in 2013, rather than an original target of 2014. The 10-year
yield fell 22 basis points to 5.276 percent as of 4:35 p.m. in
 Rome .  The government later overhauled the package, bowing to
political pressure from allies and stoking concern that it was
backsliding. Last week, Berlusconi dropped an original version
of a “solidarity tax” on incomes of more than 90,000 euros a
year, trimmed cuts to regional governments by around 1.8 billion
euros and scrapped a measure to change pension-payment rules.  “While the latest changes increase both the effectiveness
and the credibility of the fiscal package,” Italy still needs
“to deliver structural reforms to boost potential GDP growth,”
Fabio Fois, an economist at  Barclays Capital  in London, said in
a note today.  More Austerity?  Once passed by the Senate, the package faces a final vote
in the Chamber of Deputies, possibly as soon as this week.  Italy  may need a new budget adjustment next month because
the latest austerity package won’t convince the ECB to continue
buying Italian bonds, the chairman of the Senate Finance
Committee, Mario Baldassarri, said in an interview in Rome.  “We may need another adjustment in three, four weeks which
will be the real answer to the European Commission and to
markets,” Baldassarri said. To ensure continued ECB support,
Italy may need another package with more “spending cuts and not
tax increases, structural reforms in terms of liberalization,
privatizations, sales of public buildings and so on,” he added.  European Concerns  Spain  is “worried” that Italy is contributing to market
instability by wavering on austerity, Development Minister Jose Blanco told Telecinco television yesterday. German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  and European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy 
agreed at a meeting in Berlin late on Sept. 5 that distressed
euro-area countries must swiftly implement austerity pledges,
said a German official who asked not to be identified because
the talks were private.  Bank of Italy  Governor  Mario Draghi , who will become ECB
president on Nov. 1, said the central bank’s bond buying is
“temporary” and should not be taken for granted by euro-region
member states. The purchases “cannot be used to circumvent the
fundamental principle of budgetary discipline,” Draghi said,
according to the e-mailed text of a speech in Paris on Sept. 5.  Yesterday’s eight-hour walkout by  CGIL , Italy’s biggest
union, disrupted travel and manufacturing as protests attracted
as many as a million people across Italy, according to the labor
group. Fifty-eight percent of employees stayed off the job, the
union said in a statement. Fifteen percent of workers at  Fiat
SpA (F)  took part in the strike, the nation’s biggest manufacturer
said by e-mail.  The Brussels-based European Commission welcomed Italy’s new
fiscal measures, saying in an e-mailed statement yesterday that
the steps “confirm the determination of the Italian authorities
to meet the agreed targets of deficit and debt reduction.”  The commission, the EU’s Brussels-based executive branch,
said it was urging “swift adoption of the adjustment package in
a spirit of national cohesion and solidarity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  