-- 
Betfair Says ‘Comfortable’ With Full-Year Sales Outlook

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-09-06T15:56:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/betfair-comfortable-with-full-year-outlook-on-tennis-golf.html
Betfair Group Plc (BET) , the biggest
online person-to-person betting exchange, posted fiscal first-
quarter revenue ahead of analysts’ estimates and said it’s
“comfortable” with the outlook for the full year, as tennis,
golf and cricket betting gained.  Core revenue, which excludes operations such as Betfair’s
U.S. financial-trading unit, dropped 7 percent to 80.8 million
pounds ($130 million) in the three months ended July 31, the
London-based company said in a statement today. That compares
with analysts’ consensus estimate of 79 million pounds,
according to  Barclays Capital .  Revenue from the company’s betting exchanges was little
changed, at 59.5 million pounds, Betfair said, even though last
year’s period included soccer’s  World Cup . The company said it
had its best-ever Wimbledon tennis championship, Royal Ascot
horse festival, and British Open golf tournament. Mobile-phone
bets also nearly doubled in the period.  “We’re pleased to have seen a robust exchange trading
period, combined with the gains from mobile,” Chief Executive
Officer David Yu said on a telephone conference call.  Fixed-odds betting may rise to an eventual 20 percent to 30
percent of revenue from about 7 percent, Chief Financial Officer
Stephen Morana said. In June, Betfair said it was looking to
reduce the 28 percent of gambling money that its customers spent
on other sites.  Core revenue gained 12 percent in August, making the
company “comfortable” with the outlook for the rest of the
fiscal year. Analysts’ full-year consensus estimates are 346
million pounds for core revenue, and 390 million pounds for
total revenue, Morana said.  Betfair rose 27 pence, or 4.3 percent, to close at 655
pence at 4:30 p.m. in  London . The shares have fallen 32 percent
this year, giving it a market value of 697.5 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  