-- 
BlackRock’s Mark Wiedman to Head iShares as Mike Latham Named Chairman

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-09-06T21:03:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/blackrock-s-mark-wiedman-to-head-ishares-as-mike-latham-becomes-chairman.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  named Mark Wiedman
global head of iShares, the biggest provider of exchange-traded
funds, replacing Mike Latham, who will become chairman of the
unit.  Wiedman, a managing director in charge of corporate
strategy at New York-based BlackRock, will report to Robert Fairbairn, head of the firm’s global client group, the
executives wrote today in separate memos to employees, copies of
which were obtained by Bloomberg News. Latham, in his new role,
will provide full-time “strategic counseling” and focus on
advancing a three-year strategic review of iShares.  BlackRock, which entered the ETF business with its December
2009 takeover of  Barclays Global Investors , last year
reorganized the iShares division to unite the U.S. and foreign
portions of the business. Latham, 45, was named head of iShares
as part of the revamp last July, as Rory Tobin, the former head
of the international business, left. BlackRock is now pushing
into actively managed ETFs as it looks to expand iShares’ more
than $600 billion in assets.  Latham approached BlackRock Chief Executive Officer
Laurence D. Fink, President Rob Kapito and Fairbairn this year
to “discuss his desire to take a position that didn’t involve
the travel and pace of running a global business on a day-to-day
basis,” Fairbairn wrote in the memo to employees. Apart from
his role as chairman and a member of iShares’ board of
directors, Latham will continue as co-head of BlackRock’s  San
Francisco  office, which houses 1,700 employees, Fairbairn wrote.  ‘A Personal Decision’  “Ultimately, it was a personal decision,” Latham said in
a telephone interview today. “I really wanted to step back from
the pace of running a global business and focus on where I can
add value.”  Wiedman, 40, helped start BlackRock’s advisory business and
led many of the company’s assignments assisting clients in
evaluating their investment portfolios during the financial
crisis of 2008. He also helped create PennyMac, a mortgage firm
BlackRock backed in 2007. In his new role, he will continue to
be based in  New York , while spending time in the San Francisco,
 London  and Hong Kong offices.  “He brings to iShares broad experience developing and
executing strategies for business growth, skill at developing
deep, large commercial relationships with clients, and strong
connections across many of BlackRock’s businesses,” Fairbairn
wrote in the memo.  Active ETFs  BlackRock, which controls about 39 percent of global ETF
assets, competes with State Street Corp. and Vanguard Group Inc.
Through the end of July, BlackRock’s U.S. ETF business had
attracted $14.8 billion in investor deposits, compared with $25
billion by Vanguard and $5.6 billion by State Street, according
to data from Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago . ETFs manage about $1.1
trillion in assets in the U.S., according to the  Investment
Company Institute  in  Washington .  Globally, BlackRock’s iShares attracted $43 billion in new
investor business in 2010 and $33 billion so far this year,
Fairbairn wrote in today’s memo.  BlackRock last week applied to open 13 actively managed
equity ETFs that wouldn’t disclose their holdings daily,
according to a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. The firm already has permission to sell active ETFs
that offer daily transparency.  Active ETFs seek to combine the skill of a manager
selecting investments with the trading flexibility, lower fees
and tax advantages of ETFs, which typically track an index. ETFs
hold baskets of securities, commodities or other assets while
trading throughout the day like individual stocks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  