-- 
Blessing Is ‘Cautiously Optimistic’ for Banks in Europe

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-09-06T10:46:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/blessing-is-cautiously-optimistic-for-banks-in-europe-1-.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK)  Chief Executive
Officer Martin Blessing said Germany’s second-largest lender is
“cautiously optimistic” on the outlook for the economy and
banks in Europe as the region presents opportunities.  “Every difficult situation also presents a chance and I
think there are a lot of chances in Europe for Europe as well as
for banks,” Blessing said today at a conference in Frankfurt
organized by Euroforum. “We have to show the advantages of
European integration and the common currency more, which means
we have to recognize, secure and develop them.”  Investors drove yields higher on the bonds of Greece,
Portugal, Spain and Italy yesterday on doubts Europe’s leaders
will be able to stop the sovereign-debt contagion. While states
can cut debt and restore confidence by sticking to austerity
measures and consolidating their finances, issuing joint euro
bonds would hamper those efforts, Blessing said.  “Spain’s debt brake may not have been introduced so
quickly if there were euro bonds,” he said. “And I don’t think
the French savings package would have been brought under way or
that Portugal’s deliberations over the last few days would have
started like that” had European states issued joint bonds, the
CEO said.  Squeeze Unlikely  “The only problem is Greece, it is unclear if they’ll be
able” to bring down its debt “in our lifetime,” Blessing
said, citing a study by the bank on the ability of European
countries to lower borrowings to below 60 percent of gross
domestic product.  It’s “very unlikely” that Europe will experience a credit
squeeze like the one that followed the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, Blessing said.  If banks concentrate more on the task of financing the
economy, they will become more focused on their home market and
Europe can become a “new home market” for the region’s
lenders, he said.  In the future, banks will not “bet massively on growth but
the issue will be to get cost and risk management under
control,” according to the CEO. “Given all that is happening
with regulation, the ability to generate profits at banks will
be a tick more limited.” Lenders will reduce their focus on
proprietary trading, some areas of investment banking and
interbank lending, he said.  Commerzbank is working on a cost-reduction plan that may
free up personnel capacities at the bank that could be used in
other businesses, the CEO said. He didn’t rule out job cuts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Comfort at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net  