-- 
BofA ‘Herding Lions’ to Push Mortgage Deal

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-09-06T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/bofa-herding-lions-to-push-through-8-5b-mortgage-deal.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s bid to
resolve mortgage liabilities with an $8.5 billion settlement
faces drawn-out litigation and may require a bigger payout as
investors and regulators scrutinize the deal.  U.S. agencies including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
and companies such as  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  have
lined up to gather information about the accord that they may
use to fight for more money.  New York  Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman , who is trying
to block the deal, said in court papers that the bank faces
liability for actions that amount to “persistent illegality.”  “There is no precedent for what’s happening here,” said
Zachary Rosenbaum, an attorney in New York at Lowenstein Sandler
PC who isn’t involved in the case. “When you’re dealing with
this many disparate interests it makes things extraordinarily
difficult to reach one definitive settlement absent a judicial
decision. They use the term herding cats. This is like herding
lions.”  The agreement is a move by Bank of America Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 51, to resolve mortgage liabilities
tied to the bank’s 2008 acquisition of lender Countrywide
Financial Corp. It settles a fight with institutional investors
that demanded the bank buy back home loans that didn’t meet
their promised quality. The loans were packaged into bonds by
Countrywide and sold to investors.  530 Mortgage Trusts  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the trustee for the
mortgage-bond deals, has asked New York State Supreme Court
Justice Barbara R. Kapnick to approve the settlement and bind
investors outside those that negotiated it. The accord, which
calls for Bank of America to pay $8.5 billion, covers 530
mortgage trusts with an original principal balance of $424
billion, the bank said in a June 29  statement .  Investors objecting to the agreement include insurance
companies, pension funds and a group of federal home loan banks.
They are demanding more information to investigate the deal.  AIG said that Bank of America is “drastically
underpaying,” while Western and Southern Life Insurance Co.
called the settlement “a sweetheart deal.” Investors have also
complained about not having the right to opt out of the accord
if it’s approved.  Bank of America believes there are “compelling reasons”
why the agreement should be approved, said Lawrence Grayson, a
spokesman for the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender.  “The courts have outlined a process in which all of the
matters raised to date will be resolved, and we will continue to
rely upon that process,” Grayson said in an e-mailed statement.  FHFA Lawsuits  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency , the regulator of
mortgage-finance companies  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , said it
was “prudent” to seek more details and was unlikely to lodge a
“substantive objection.” On Sept. 2, the FHFA sued 17 banks,
including Bank of America, to recover losses on mortgage-backed
securities sold to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The suit against
Bank of America was filed in federal court in New York. The
agency sued Countrywide separately in state court in  Manhattan 
over transactions covered in the Bank of America settlement.  Bank of America, by going to court to seek approval of the
agreement, invited litigation by investors and the scrutiny of
state and federal officials, said Manal Mehta, a partner at
Branch Hill Capital. He estimates a settlement could cost the
bank double what’s been offered and possibly more.  “That’s the main problem with Bank of America right now:
if you’re going to invest in Bank of America stock, you have no
idea what the size of the liabilities are,” Mehta said in an
interview.  If the agreement falls apart, the bank could be looking at
years of litigation as it tries to settle individually with
parties, Joseph Morford, a San Francisco-based analyst with
Royal Bank of Canada, said in an interview.  ‘Ongoing Uncertainty’  “If this fell apart, it would just open up the company to
ongoing uncertainty and greater concern about a bigger bill to
pay down the road,” he said.  Schneiderman asked Kapnick to reject the settlement. He
accuses Bank of America, the biggest U.S. lender by assets, of
making false representations about the quality of loans and
failing to provide complete mortgage files to the trusts,
according to a court filing.  The case may have given investors and state attorneys
general “a platform they didn’t previously have to meet,
agitate and join forces,”  Christopher Whalen , managing director
at  Institutional Risk Analytics , said in an Aug. 26 note. He
called the deal “effectively dead.”  Kevin Heine, a BNY Mellon spokesman, declined to comment.
 Kathy Patrick , a lawyer for the institutional investors that
negotiated the deal after demanding the bank buy back loans,
didn’t return a phone call seeking comment.  Unleash Objections  A state court hearing was initially scheduled in November
to consider approving the deal. That’s an unlikely target now as
large financial institutions and government officials unleash
objections, said Katie Porter, a law professor at the  University
of California  at  Irvine  who has been following the case.  Porter said she sees the settlement unraveling and the
dispute dragging on for possibly two years as investors seek
details about the  mortgage loans  backing their securities and
the process by which the loans were securitized.  “The question of what’s the magnitude of the problem is
really important to whether or not the investors were wronged,”
she said.  Bank of America may not know either, Porter said. “Who
really knows where they got their own settlement number and what
it’s based on,” she said.  ‘Substantial Period’  Resolving the case could require “a substantial period of
time,” the bank said in its June 29 statement. It can withdraw
from the deal with  BNY Mellon ’s consent if final court approval
isn’t obtained by Dec. 31, 2015, according to a regulatory
filing.  “It is not possible to predict whether and to what extent
challenges will be made to the settlement or the timing or
ultimate outcome of the court-approval process,” the bank said
when it announced the agreement.  One area of investigation for investors will be whether
mortgage files were properly transferred to the trusts, which
could lead to claims of “massive investor fraud,” Porter said.
In August, Schneiderman accused BNY Mellon of failing to ensure
the proper transfer of loan documents into the trusts. At the
time, the bank said it “fulfilled in all respects” its
responsibilities as trustee and that it would fight the attorney
general’s “baseless” allegations.  Class-Action  Another potential for delay is a fight over the proper
venue for the dispute. An investor group has moved the case out
of state court to federal court, which BNY Mellon opposes.
Arguments are scheduled for this month. If the investors succeed
in turning the case into a class-action proceeding, it would
allow them to opt out of the settlement, according to Rosenbaum.
Appeals could further drag out the case, he said.  Ultimately, the bank may be forced to pay more if investors
can show through the exchange of evidence required in the
litigation that $8.5 billion doesn’t adequately compensate them.  “To get comfortable with the amount of the settlement, you
need the scope of the harm,” Porter said. “And that’s where we
haven’t seen good disclosure here of how bad it really is, how
many mortgages were messed up.”  The case is Bank of New York Mellon v. Walnut Place LLC,
11-cv-5988, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York State  Supreme Court  in Manhattan at  dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  