-- 
BofA Promotes Montag, Darnell to COOs

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-09-06T23:21:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/bofa-makes-montag-darnell-co-operating-chiefs-as-krawcheck-price-depart.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , seeking to
reverse a 48 percent share slide this year, named Tom Montag and
David Darnell as co-chief operating officers and ousted  Sallie Krawcheck  and  Joseph Price  from its management ranks.  The latest top-level shakeup by Chief Executive Officer
 Brian T. Moynihan , 51, leaves Montag running investment banking
and operations that serve companies and institutional clients,
the Charlotte, North Carolina-based company said in a statement
today. Darnell will run units serving individual customers,
including deposits,  wealth management , credit cards, small
businesses, and mortgage operations.  Moynihan is cutting layers of management at the largest
U.S. bank by assets as he grapples with mortgage losses from the
2008 acquisition of subprime lender Countrywide Financial Corp.
and works to meet tighter  capital requirements . The firm is in
the midst of an expense-reduction initiative called Project New
BAC that may slash tens of thousands of jobs.  “‘Tuesday afternoon massacre,’ is what I’d call it,” said
 Nancy Bush , a bank analyst and contributing editor at SNL
Financial, the bank-research firm in Charlottesville, Virginia.
“Brian is under pressure, the company is under pressure, and
when you’re transmitting your message to so many different
people, I think it’s harder to get results. And clearly he was
not getting results as quickly as he would have liked.”  Montag, 54, a former trading head at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., gains responsibility for commercial banking operations
previously handled by Darnell. Wealth-management operations that
were overseen by Krawcheck now will be run by Darnell, who also
takes over Price’s former retail-banking units.  Share Slump  Bank of America is the biggest decliner this year in the
24-company  KBW Bank Index (BKX) , dragged down by more than $30 billion
in expenses and writedowns tied to faulty mortgages since
Moynihan became CEO. Moynihan has sold more than 20 assets and
units to bolster capital while fending off speculation that he’d
need to issue new common stock.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. agreed last month to invest $5
billion in preferred shares and warrants as Chairman Warren Buffett called the bank a “strong, well-led company.” The bank
advanced 3 cents to $7.02 at 6:31 p.m. in extended trading in
New York.  Krawcheck, 46, ran Citigroup Inc.’s wealth-management unit
before joining Bank of America in August 2009. She oversaw more
than 15,000 financial advisers under Bank of America’s Merrill
Lynch brand.  Price, 50, served as the bank’s chief financial officer
until early last year, when Moynihan took over and named him to
head  consumer banking . That put Price in charge of more than
5,000 retail offices.  ‘At the Top’  “It became evident that streamlining could be done at the
top as well as throughout the organization,” Price said in the
statement.  Moynihan said in April that  Bruce Thompson  was replacing
Charles Noski as chief financial officer, and  Gary Lynch ,
formerly a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission enforcement
director, was hired to oversee legal and compliance operations.
The CEO announced in July that Terry Laughlin would succeed
Thompson as chief risk officer.  Moynihan struck deals to cut stakes in BlackRock Inc. and
China Construction Bank Corp. and divest insurance units and
non-U.S. credit-card businesses as he scales back the company
left to him early last year by predecessor Kenneth D. Lewis.  “Only by streamlining and focusing our resources behind
our customers will we truly deliver on the promise of what we
have built,” Moynihan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net  