-- 
Brazil Blocks Transfer to Libya to Prevent Funding for Qaddafi

-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 
2011-09-06T22:49:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/brazil-blocks-transfer-to-libya-to-prevent-funding-for-qaddafi.html
A Brazilian court blocked dividend
payments from a bank indirectly controlled by the Libyan central
bank to prevent the proceeds from funding supporters of ousted
leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  The Brazilian attorney general’s office, known as AGU, was
granted a court injunction blocking transfers from Banco ABC
Brasil SA to the Arab Banking Corp., the bank’s Bahrain-based
parent, according to a statement published on the agency’s
 website . The Libyan central bank owns 59 percent of Arab
Banking.  “The embargo of assets linked to the family of Muammar
Qaddafi and Libya’s public institutions is aimed at preventing
the arming of forces connected to the dictator,” AGU said in
the statement.  The Sao Paulo-based bank will appeal the court injunction,
Investor Relations Director Sergio Lulia Jacob said. Blocking
the funds wasn’t necessary because Arab Banking is already
complying with United Nations resolutions by not sending
dividends to  Libya ’s central bank, Jacob said.  “We do not agree with AGU at all as they are imposing
losses to other Arab Banking shareholders besides Libya,” Jacob
said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo.  The Kuwait sovereign fund owns 30 percent of Arab Banking,
while minority shareholders own the remaining 11 percent.  ABC Brasil said in a e-mailed statement today that the
injunction won’t affect its operations and that it has always
complied with United Nations resolutions.  The yield on ABC Brasil’s 7.875 percent bonds due in 2020
rose 12 basis points yesterday to 8.54 percent. The yield has
risen 122 basis points this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ABC Brasil rose 2.3 percent to close at 10.49 reais in  Sao
Paulo  trading yesterday. It has lost 28 percent this year, more
than the 18 percent drop for the benchmark Bovespa index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  