-- 
Brazil Inflation Accelerated to Fastest Since 2005 Ahead of Shock Rate Cut

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-09-06T14:20:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/brazil-inflation-accelerated-to-fastest-since-2005-ahead-of-shock-rate-cut.html
Brazil ’s inflation accelerated for
the 12th straight month in August to its fastest annual rate
since 2005, reinforcing economist views that the central bank
may have cut borrowing costs prematurely.  Consumer prices, as measured by the IPCA index, rose 0.37
percent in August from the previous month, the national
 statistics agency  said today. That was in line with analyst
expectations for a 0.36 percent increase, according to the
median estimate of 40 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Prices
rose 7.23 percent from a year ago, the highest since June 2005.  “Inflation is worrying, mostly in the long run with
elevated service prices growth,” Mauricio Rosal, chief
economist at  Raymond James  in  Sao Paulo , said in a telephone
interview. “It will be harder for the central bank to bring
inflation down to its target because it’s at such a high rate.”  Policy makers led by central bank President Alexandre Tombini cut the benchmark interest rate to 12 percent on Aug.
31, after raising it at the previous five policy meetings, in
the most abrupt turnaround in monetary policy since 1999. The
bank said a “moderate adjustment” in the key rate wouldn’t
compromise its 4.5 percent inflation target next year because of
a “substantial deterioration” in the global economy.  ‘Gradual Reduction’  “We’re still a long way from converging to the target,”
said Daniel Lima, an analyst at Rosenberg & Associados, in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “It will be a gradual
reduction.”  Yields on the  interest-rate  futures contract due in January
2013 fell four basis points to 10.54 percent at 10:03 a.m. New
York time. The real weakened for the fourth straight session,
falling 0.7 percent to 1.6564 per  U.S. dollar .  World stock markets lost more than $4 trillion last month
as  Europe  tried to stave off a debt crisis and global growth
showed signs of slowing. Amid a worsening outlook for the  U.S.
economy , policy makers in emerging markets have been shifting
their focus away from inflation. Demand for Brazil’s iron ore,
the country’s biggest export, is also expected to slacken.  Last week’s rate cut prompted analysts covering the
Brazilian economy to increase their inflation forecasts for next
year and 2013.  Core Inflation Rises  Consumer prices will rise 5.32 percent next year, according
to the median forecasts in a  central bank survey  of about 100
economists published yesterday. The forecasts were up from 5.2
percent the previous week. The benchmark Selic rate will fall to
11.88 percent by the end of 2012, the survey found.  Core inflation rose 0.42 percent in July, from 0.37 percent
in June, and should continue to rise in coming makes, making
further cuts unadvisable, Flavio Serrano, an analyst for
Espirito Santo Investment Bank, said in a report.  The increase in prices last month was the biggest since a
0.47 percent rise in May. Food prices rose for the first time
since May, jumping 0.72 percent last month. Transportation costs
fell 0.11 percent. Clothes prices rose 0.67 percent, while
housing increase 0.32 percent and household goods jumped 0.57
percent.  Tombini has said that the pace of price increases will
start to slow in September.  Slower Growth  Brazil’s economic growth slowed last quarter the most since
its 2009 recession, growing 3.1 percent from a year earlier.
Growth was led by a 4.9 percent expansion in the retail sector,
while imports surged 14.6 percent after the real hit a 12-year
high during the quarter.  A new report today showed that manufacturers reduced
production in July. Installed capacity fell to 82.1 percent, its
lowest level since February 2010 and down from 82.4 percent in
June.  While inflation has shown signs of slowing, rising wages
are still bolstering demand. Unemployment fell to 6 percent in
July, its lowest level this year, and salaries for autoworkers
have risen as much as 20 percent in recent weeks. The country’s
minimum wage, which is used to adjust pension payments, is
slated to rise 14 percent next year.  President  Dilma Rousseff  is counting on further rate cuts
this year and has told the central bank she will reinforce
fiscal measures to pay for the shift in monetary policy,  Folha
de S. Paulo  reported today, citing advisers it did not name.  Rousseff considers it a good moment to bring rates down to
the level of developed nations, which would help convince
lawmakers to limit public spending, according to the newspaper.  ‘Rigorous Strategy’  “There can be no doubt about us continuing our rigorous
strategy of containing inflation,” Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said in an interview in Sao Paulo on Sept. 2.  Government efforts to contain spending will assist the
central bank in its inflation fight and complement a “more
active” use of monetary policy, Mantega said. The government
last month raised by 10 billion reais its  budget surplus  before
interest payments target this year, and Rousseff’s administration
has no plans to increase salaries for federal government
employees in 2012, he said.  While members of Congress are seeking additional funds for
health care and want to lift police wages, Mantega said the
government won’t support any spending increases unless lawmakers
identify offsetting revenue sources.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  