-- 
New York Oil Trades Near Two-Week Low on Economy; Brent Crude Pares Gains

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 
2011-09-06T06:41:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/brent-oil-climbs-0-9-in-london-new-york-crude-pares-loss-after-holiday.html
Oil traded near the lowest close in
two weeks in  New York  while  London ’s Brent gave up earlier gains
as investors bet that signs of a slowing global economy indicate
fuel demand may falter.  Futures slipped as much as 3.8 percent from their Sept. 2
settlement before a report today may show U.S. service
industries grew at the slowest pace in more than a year. A
satellite survey signaled rising crude stockpiles in the world’s
biggest consumer of the commodity. Brent prices swung between
gains and losses after  Al Jazeera  said Libyan rebels reached an
agreement for the surrender of Bani Walid, one of the holdouts
of military loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi .  “Oil benchmarks slipped again as fears of slowing global
growth weighed on demand sentiment,”  Mark Pervan , head of
commodity research at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
in Melbourne, said in a note today. “Expect further selling
pressure this week as markets remain jittery.”  West Texas Intermediate crude for October delivery was at
$83.58 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  at 2:32 p.m. in  Singapore . That was down $2.87, or 3.3
percent from Sept. 2. Floor trading was shut yesterday for the
Labor Day holiday and electronic trades will be booked with
today’s transactions for settlement purposes. The contract is
headed for its lowest close since Aug. 19.  Brent traded at $110.18 a barrel, up 10 cents, on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange after climbing as much
as 0.9 percent. The European benchmark crude was at a premium of
$26.56 a barrel to WTI, compared with a record intraday spread
of $26.97 on Sept. 2.  Crude Stockpiles  Crude stockpiles held in floating-roof tanks at Cushing,
 Oklahoma , the delivery point for WTI oil, rose 2.4 percent on
Sept. 1 from Aug. 31, satellite images taken by Longmont,
Colorado-based DigitalGlobe Inc. showed. Inventories climbed
850,000 barrels to 35.6 million. The Energy Department said last
week that supplies, including floating and fixed tanks, totaled
33.1 million barrels as of Aug. 26.  The Energy Department is scheduled to release its weekly
stockpile report on Sept. 8, a day late because of the Labor Day
holiday.  U.S. oil has slumped 27 percent from this year’s high of
$114.83 on May 2 amid concern that a slowdown in world growth
will curb demand. The Institute for Supply Management’s non-
manufacturing index fell to 51 last month, the lowest since
January 2010, from 52.7 in July, according to the median of 59
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Fighting in  Libya , which began in February, has reduced the
availability of light, sweet crude, or oil with low density and
sulfur content. The country’s output fell to 45,000 barrels a
day last month, according to Bloomberg estimates, compared with
1.6 million barrels the nation pumped in January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in  Melbourne  at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  