-- 
Burundi Civil Society, Labor Unions Plan Protests Over Rising Living Costs

-- B y   D e s i r e   N i m u b o n a
-- 
2011-09-06T14:29:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/burundi-civil-society-unions-plan-protests-over-living-costs.html
Burundian civil-society groups and
labor unions may hold protests over the increased cost of living
in the East African country after water and power prices more
than doubled.  A decision will be made “soon” whether to hold
demonstrations after a request submitted to the government to
revise utility costs was ignored, Piere Nduwayo, spokesman for
the Burundi Consumers’ Association, said in an interview
yesterday in Bujumbura, the capital.  Energy Minister Moise Bucumi announced last month a
progressive increase in water and electricity tariffs beginning
from this month to bring them in line with costs in the  East
African Community  and to help finance the construction of
hydropower dams. The country plans to boost the number of people
who have access to electricity to 12 percent from 2 percent now.  “We are really concerned by this rise in the cost of
living, especially the rise of prices of water and electricity,”
said Renovat Havyarimana, a spokesman for the Observatory for
the Fight Against Corruption and Economic Mismanagement, known
by its French acronym, Olucome.  The annual inflation rate almost doubled since the start of
the year, rising to 9.1 percent in July from 4.8 percent in
January, as food and fuel costs climbed.  Olucome estimates that the tariff increases announced by
the Energy Ministry will result in water costs almost
quadrupling and power costs more than doubling. The group has
urged the government to scale back the price rises to 30
percent.  Police Action  On Sept. 1, police dispersed 10 civil society groups who
had gathered in Bujumbura to discuss the planned protests 10
minutes after they began their public meeting.  “We will gather once again to plan our campaign,”
Havyarimana said, without disclosing further details about when
the group would meet.  Burundi has a $1.3 billion economy and a population of
about 8.1 million people. The country, about the size of the
U.S. state of  Maryland , relies on tea and coffee exports to
generate most of its foreign-exchange earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Desire Nimubona in Bujumbura via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 