-- 
Business Confidence in South Africa Declines to Lowest in More Than a Year

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-09-06T10:00:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/business-confidence-in-south-africa-drops-to-lowest-in-more-than-a-year.html
South African business confidence
fell to the lowest level in a year in the third quarter because
of weak demand in manufacturing, threatening the recovery in
Africa’s biggest economy, Rand Merchant Bank said.  The RMB/BER index decreased to 39 from 48 in the second
quarter, the investment bank, a unit of Johannesburg-based
 FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) , said in an e-mailed statement today. A reading
below 50 indicates more companies are pessimistic than are
optimistic about prevailing business conditions.  “The drop in confidence, as well as the weaker underlying
developments in all the sectors, except for retail trade, do
suggest that the upturn has lost some steam,” RMB said. “Real
gross domestic product growth in all likelihood remained weak in
the third quarter.”  Economic growth slowed to an annualized 1.3 percent in the
second quarter from 4.5 percent in the previous months as
manufacturing and mining output contracted, the statistics
office said on Aug. 30. Growth in manufacturing, which makes up
15 percent of the economy, has remained at or below 1 percent
for three consecutive months as a debt crisis in Europe cuts
demand for South African exports.  The confidence index for manufacturers slumped to 36 in the
third quarter from 51 in the previous three months, while the
index for wholesalers dropped to 31 from 47, RMB said. The motor
trade index declined 18 points to 58 because of a shortage of
vehicle-component imports from Japan and rising household-debt
levels, the bank said.  The confidence index for retailers was little changed at 48
in the third quarter from 47 in the previous three months, the
statement said.  The business confidence index is compiled by RMB and the
University of Stellenbosch’s Bureau for Economic Research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  