-- 
CaliSolar to Build $600 Million Polysilicon Plant in Mississippi

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-09-06T19:42:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/calisolar-to-build-600-million-polysilicon-plant-in-mississippi.html
CaliSolar Inc., a maker of
polysilicon for solar cells, will build a factory in  Mississippi 
after the state approved $75 million in incentives.  The $600 million plant in Lowndes County will produce
16,000 metric tons a year, Sunnyvale, California-based CaliSolar
said in a statement Sept. 2. The company says its manufacturing
process is less costly than other polysilicon providers.  With prices falling for the main material of solar cells,
lower manufacturing costs may help CaliSolar compete against the
biggest polysilicon maker Hemlock Semiconductor Corp.,  China ’s
GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. and other established companies,
 Mark Heller , an analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in  San
Francisco , said today in an interview.  “We definitely expect prices to come down over the next
few quarters as a lot of new capacity comes online in  Asia ,”
Heller said.  CaliSolar is seeking to become “the lowest-cost producer”
of solar silicon, Chief Executive Officer Sandra Beach Lin said
in an interview. The company uses “feedstocks that cost a
fraction of the conventional” raw silicon used by other
manufacturers, according to its  website . Lin wouldn’t provide
additional information about its process.  The spot price of polysilicon has fallen more than 30
percent this year to $51 a kilogram, according to a data
complied by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  It may fall further. “We have lowered our polysilicon
price forecast for 2012 to $35,” Heller said. “We’re seeing a
stronger second half for polysilicon, but we’re going to see
more oversupply next year.”  Mississippi approved on Sept. 2 a $59.5 million loan for
equipment and buildings, an $11.25 million grant and $4.5
million for workforce training, Laura Hipp, communications
director for Governor  Haley Barbour , said in an e-mail. The
plant is expected to create 951 full-time jobs.  CaliSolar also has a plant in Vaughan, Ontario.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  