-- 
California’s Gay Wedding Ban Defense Is Weighed by State’s High Court

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-09-06T18:58:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/california-s-gay-wedding-ban-defense-is-weighed-by-state-s-supreme-court.html
Proponents of  California ’s
Proposition 8 ban on gay marriage told the state’s high court
that they should be allowed to defend the measure after state
officials refused to do so.  California courts have recognized that the state’s
initiative process, which allows voters to enact legislation,
gives proponents of ballot measures wide latitude to intervene
when the validity of propositions are challenged, said  Charles
Cooper , an attorney representing Proposition 8’s backers.  “The court has recognized consistently that official
proponents have a direct interest,” Cooper said today at a
hearing in San Francisco.  The California Supreme Court will decide whether backers of
the measure, passed by California voters in 2008, can stand in
for the state in their appeal of a federal judge’s ruling last
year that Proposition 8 is unconstitutional. California Governor
 Jerry Brown , a Democrat who was attorney general during the
trial, and  Arnold Schwarzenegger , a Republican who was then
governor, refused to defend the state constitutional amendment.  The state’s high court has had a liberal intervention policy
in cases about voter-approved initiatives, allowing initiative
proponents to stand “shoulder to shoulder” with state
officials when a proposition is being challenged, said Chief
Justice Tani Cantil-Sakauye. Yet the court has never been asked
to decide whether initiative proponents are authorized to stand
in for the state when state officials refuse, she said.  Issue of ‘Standing’  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in San Francisco, which is
handling the appeal, asked the state high court to decide the
issue of “standing” before it considers the question of
whether Proposition 8 discriminates against gay and lesbian
couples. A decision from the California court will be issued
within 90 days.  Cantil-Sakauye asked Cooper whether it would be enough to
tell the federal appeals court that California courts have
traditionally allowed proposition proponents to intervene in
challenges to ballot measures in the interest of fairness to
both sides of an issue.  “I believe it would,” Cooper said.  Gay couples who sued to overturn Proposition 8 claim the
measure’s proponents lack standing and their appeal should be
dismissed. Prior U.S. Supreme Court rulings and California law
establish that proposition proponents don’t have the right to
stand in for government lawyers when a measure is challenged,
said  Theodore Olson , an attorney representative the couples.  ‘Fundamental Fairness’  “Then the people are unrepresented,” said Justice Joyce Kennard. “It would appear that agreeing with you would not
promote principles of fundamental fairness.”  California Attorney General Kamala Harris, a Democrat who
took office in January, said in court filings that Proposition 8
proponents aren’t authorized to represent the state’s interest
in the case and asked the state high court to reject their
request for standing.  “Isn’t it the case that they are the ones most clearly
invested in the success of the proposition?” Justice Goodwin Liu asked Olson.  “They raised more money” and took other steps to get the
initiative passed, Olson said. Still, there’s nothing in the
initiative process or the California Constitution that gives the
Proposition 8 proponents the right to represent the state’s
interest in the federal appeals court, he said.  Lawyers for the proponents say that if they have no
standing to appeal, then the appeals court must dismiss the
appeal and throw out the judge’s decision overturning the
measure.  In a separate state lawsuit, the California Supreme Court
upheld Proposition 8 in 2009 and ruled that 18,000 gay marriages
performed before the ban remain valid. The court had voted 4-3
in May 2008 to legalize gay marriage.  In the 2009 case, the court said Proposition 8’s proponents
had standing to defend the measure.  The case is Perry v. Schwarzenegger, 10-16696, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  