-- 
California Gasoline Falls After Exxon Plant Recovers From Upset

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-09-06T20:01:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/california-gasoline-falls-after-exxon-plant-recovers-from-upset.html
California-blend gasoline weakened
the most in five days on speculation that the switch to winter-
blend fuel will boost supply in the market and after  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) ’s Torrance refinery recovered from an equipment failure.  Carbob in  Los Angeles  dropped 9.5 cents to a premium of 26
cents a gallon above gasoline futures traded on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  at 2:03 p.m. East Coast time, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Prompt delivery fell 11.64 cents to
$3.0782 a gallon.  “California refineries will start their switching over
from summer to winter blend gasoline,” said Bob van der Valk,
an independent fuel pricing analyst in Terry, Montana.
“Additional gasoline production will show up on the market as
early as Sept. 15.”  Exxon’s 150,000-barrel-a-day Torrance refinery, south of
Los Angeles, was operating normally after an equipment failure
earlier today. No units were shut as a result of the incident,
Barbara Burgett, a spokeswoman at the refinery, said in a
telephone interview.  London-based BP Plc was said to be planning maintenance at
its 266,000-barrel-a-day Carson refinery in southern California
that may result in flaring from tomorrow to Sept. 19. The work
isn’t related to an equipment breakdown and isn’t expected to
significantly affect operations, according to a person familiar
with the plant’s operations.  The premium for Carbob in San Francisco narrowed 9 cents,
also to a premium of 26 cents over futures.  Fuel in  Portland   Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in Portland, Oregon, was
unchanged at 32 cents a gallon over futures, its largest premium
since July 23, 2010.  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  said it shut an API unit, which separates
water and other contaminants from crude oil, at its 125,000-
barrel-a-day Anacortes refinery in  Washington  last week for
planned work.  The refinery expects to finish work on the unit, unrelated
to the refining process, early this week, Mike Marcy, a Tesoro
spokesman based in Martinez, California, said in an e-mailed
statement Sept. 2.  The work “will have no impact whatsoever on Tesoro’s
ability to fulfill its regional product supply commitments,”
Marcy said.  Tesoro also shut a residual oil supercritical extraction
unit, which produces feedstock for the refinery’s fluid
catalytic cracking and hydrocracking units, for maintenance that
may take several weeks to finish.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  