-- 
Cameron’s Fast Rail Runs Into Tory Roadblock: Freight Markets

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-09-06T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/cameron-s-fast-rail-runs-into-tory-roadblock-freight-markets.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s plan
to build the U.K.’s first high-speed domestic rail link, freeing
capacity for freight, faces opposition in his party’s heartland.  Ministers have threatened to quit and a poll of
Conservative Party supporters shows most are against the plans
to construct the 32 billion-pound ($51 billion) line from London
to northern  England  via Birmingham. Cameron says the route is
crucial to rebalancing the economy away from southeast England,
while campaigners accuse him of despoiling the countryside.  The West Coast main line from London to northwest England
and  Scotland , already the busiest mixed-use rail route in
Europe, will be full up by 2024 if no action is taken, according
to Network Rail, which runs Britain’s tracks. Companies involved
in U.K. rail cargo, including Channel Tunnel operator  Groupe
Eurotunnel SA (GET)  as well as retailer  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  and  VTG AG (VT9) , owner of
Britain’s largest rail car-leasing company, may see their
opportunities to expand hampered by any holdup.  For Eurotunnel, which is seeking to build on its direct
freight services from continental Europe to the U.K., “any
extra traffic that they can get through is good news,” said
Robert Crimes, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in London
with an “outperform” rating on the Paris-based company. Partly
because of British rail restrictions, “the tunnel at the moment
is at only 50 percent in terms of capacity utilization.”  Freight tonnage on Britain’s railroads grew by 45 percent
in the 10 years to 2007, adjusted for distance, before declining
during the recession. Container traffic continued to rise, by 17
percent between 2007 and 2010, according to the government’s
 consultation  document on the high-speed line, known as HS2.  Tesco Hub  Tesco, the U.K.’s largest retailer, in June opened a rail
hub at Daventry, on the West Coast main line in central England.
It has capacity for eight trains a day to take goods around the
country, saving an annual 20,000 metric tons of carbon-dioxide
emissions, according to the company’s 2011  Corporate
Responsibility Report .  “In the event that HS2 does become fully operational, we
would welcome the improved network capacity, as it would further
reduce our carbon footprint,” Tesco, based in Cheshunt, north
of  London , said in an e-mailed statement.  Building the high-speed line would allow three freight
trains an hour to run on the existing West Coast line, instead
of fewer than two on average now, according to  GreenGauge21 , a
research group funded by public bodies including Network Rail
and Transport for London.  Chiltern Hills  The stumbling block for the proposed high-speed line is
that it runs through areas of natural beauty including the
 Chiltern Hills  that are represented by Conservative lawmakers.  Welsh Secretary Cheryl Gillan said she would resign her
Cabinet post if necessary to vote in Parliament against the
line, which would go through her Buckinghamshire district,
northwest of London.  The minister for Europe, David Lidington, who represents a
neighboring constituency, also opposes the plans. London Mayor
 Boris Johnson , a Conservative, has dropped his original support
for the line over plans for the route through the capital.  “There’s strong emotional opinion against HS2 that tends
to get more of the publicity than the support there is from a
wide body of organizations in the middle and north of the
country,” Alan Marshall, a spokesman for Birmingham-based  Go-
HS2 , a lobby group for the new line, said in a telephone
interview. “Freight never seems to get debated and freight is
one of the principal reasons why the West Coast main line needs
relieving of its capacity problems.”  No Upgrade  The other existing main rail route north from London, the
East Coast line to Edinburgh, hasn’t been upgraded like its West
Coast counterpart to carry taller freight cars from continental
 Europe .  “The HS2 network would take off passenger loads on the
existing network, which could be freed up for additional freight
services,” said Rob Brook, managing director of  VTG Rail U.K.
Ltd ., Britain’s largest rail car-leasing company and a unit of
Hamburg-based VTG.  A government consultation on the line closed on July 29 and
Transport Secretary Philip Hammond will make a decision by
December.  HS2 Ltd. , the company set up by the government to
oversee the project, has started work on finding partners and
contractors for the design of the line, conditional on a
decision for the route to go ahead.  Heathrow Runway  Cameron supported the high-speed rail plan while he was in
opposition as part of his argument against a third runway at
London’s Heathrow airport, which helped his party win votes in
west London. Support for the line also helped his party to win
districts in the north of England in the May 2010 election that
saw him take power from  Gordon Brown ’s  Labour Party .  “When the  Conservative Party  announced its support for
high-speed rail for the North and Midlands it gave cities like
Leeds a real boost,”  Stuart Andrew , a Conservative lawmaker who
took a seat in Leeds from Labour last year, said in a statement
on July 27. “We fought an election on it. To go back on it now
would be met with a serious sense of dismay.”  Cameron may face criticism over the plans at his party’s
annual conference in Manchester next month. A survey of 1,348
Conservative members by the website  ConservativeHome.com  on Aug.
25 and 26 showed that 56 percent oppose the building of the
high-speed line.  “I’m committed to HS2. I think it’s right that Britain
gets on board the high speed rail revolution,” Cameron told the
 Birmingham Post  newspaper on June 30. “If you want to make sure
that in the future the whole of the country can share in the
economic prosperity, and it’s not so constrained to the
southeast, I think this is the sort of thing that needs to go
ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  