-- 
Canada’s AAA Bond Rating Affirmed by Fitch on ‘Conservative’ Fiscal Policy

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-09-06T22:05:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/canada-s-aaa-bond-rating-affirmed-by-fitch-on-fiscal-policy.html
Canada’s AAA credit rating was
affirmed by  Fitch Ratings  with a stable outlook, which cited a
“culture of conservative policymaking” that allowed the nation
to weather the financial crisis.  An effective fiscal stimulus and “proactive” monetary
policy, as well as a commodity-price revival, helped Canada
recover more quickly than its developed-nation peers, posting
3.2 percent gross-domestic-product expansion in 2010, Fitch said
in a statement today.  Canada’s GDP and employment have both recovered to pre-
crisis levels, outperforming all of the nation’s Group of Seven
peers, Lucila Broide, a director in Fitch’s sovereign group,
said in the statement. The federal government’s commitment to
balance its budget by the fiscal year beginning in April 2015
“placed Canada’s credibility ahead of rating peers,” Broide
said.  Canada ’s gross general government debt at 85.1 percent of
GDP remains high compared with the AAA median of 47.2 percent,
resulting in government interest payments that are twice the AAA
median, Fitch said.  Relatively modest levels of net government debt to GDP, at
30.4 percent, and “strong political and social commitment” to
balance the budget underscore its high level of debt tolerance,
the agency wrote.  General government debt is expected to start declining over
the current year and continue falling in the absence of any
shocks, Fitch said. The agency predicted economic growth of 2.3
percent in 2011 and 2.7 percent in the 2012-2013 fiscal year,
citing high household debt ratios, the potential for a
correction in  house prices  and a protracted U.S. economic
slowdown as downside risks.  Fitch affirmed the U.S.’s AAA credit rating last month,
while  Standard & Poor’s  cut America’s rating to AA+ after
lawmakers failed to cut spending enough to reduce record
deficits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia, at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  