-- 
Candidates Clamor for States’ Rights, Some of the Time: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-06T00:00:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/candidates-clamor-for-states-rights-but-only-for-some-of-the-time-view.html
The concept of “states’
rights” has a disgraceful history as the intellectual
backbone of the Southern cause during the Civil War.
One hundred years later, it was still being asserted as
a legitimate, supposedly nonracist, reason for
opposition to the civil-rights movement.  But there’s another historical thread, too: a
progressive one that claims the states can be
“laboratories of democracy.” The phrase comes from a
1932 dissent by Justice Louis Brandeis: “It is one of the
happy incidents of the federal system that a single
courageous State may, if its citizens choose, serve as
a laboratory; and try novel social and economic
experiments without risk to the rest of the country.”  In the past year or so, states’ rights have become
a hot topic again in several contexts. Twenty-six state
attorneys general are challenging a key part of
President Barack Obama’s health-care reform on the
grounds that it exceeds the federal government’s
constitutional authority. Unrelated to this, the famous
Republican  alternative federal budget , written by House
Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , calls for major
savings by replacing Medicaid -- the program that
provides health care for the poorest citizens -- with
block grants to the states.  10th Amendment Aficionado  And then there is  Rick Perry , governor of Texas and
flavor of the moment among Republican presidential
candidates. Perry is an  aficionado  of the 10th
Amendment, which provides that “The powers not
delegated to the  United States  by the Constitution, nor
prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the
States respectively, or to the people.” All prominent
Republicans claim to be 10th Amendment enthusiasts, but
only Perry has actually written a book expressing his
ardor. (The book is “ Fed Up ! Our Fight to Save America
from  Washington ” -- with a foreword by another
Republican presidential candidate, former House Speaker
 Newt Gingrich .)  The first thing to say about states’ rights is that
states have no rights. (Nor, for that matter, does the
federal government.) People have rights. Our
forefathers, after trying a loose confederacy, decided
that a tightly connected group of states surrounding a
central government with strong, but delimited, powers
was the best arrangement, and most people think it has
worked out pretty well.  The second thing to say is that if you don’t care
for this arrangement -- or how the courts have
interpreted the 10th Amendment or the  Commerce Clause 
or other provisions relating to state-federal relations
-- that’s too bad. You can try for a constitutional
amendment, or hope for a generation of judges and
justices who see things the way you do. But meanwhile,
the Constitution must be honored.  The third thing to say is that all constitutional
provisions are in there for a reason, and cannot be
wished away. The 10th Amendment places limits on
federal power whether we like it or not. The question
is, of course, what are those limits?  In general, the courts have taken a pretty broad
view of permissible federal power, especially over
commerce. This has enabled us to build a continent-wide
economy, with no borders, no tariffs or quotas,
hundreds of millions of customers, and uniform
standards or customs for everything from the width of
railroad tracks to the choice of language we do
business in (English, for the most part).  We wonder if the governor of  Texas  appreciates what
a blessing this is, and how central to our prosperity
and ultimately to our power as a nation to protect its
freedoms (and other people’s). He has only to look at
 Europe , which has been struggling for six decades to
establish a continent-wide economy and still hasn’t
quite gotten it right.  States as Laboratories  By and large, the states have ignored Brandeis’s
invitation to become “laboratories of democracy,”
trying out experimental policy ideas on their own
populations rather than putting out-of-staters at risk.
To be sure, every state has a few hobbyhorses. There
is, for example, the health-care reform enacted in
 Massachusetts  under Governor  Mitt Romney  -- seemingly
quite similar to the new federal plan, but actually
(says Romney) specially designed for the citizens of
his state. But state governments compete to attract
business, so the likelihood that any one of them will
go off on an expensive tangent is slight. Instead, the
states work hard to develop uniform regulations on
every subject under the sun.  Gay marriage is a counterexample. It seems to be
spreading one state at a time, just as Brandeis, a far-
left Democrat by today’s standards, might wish. It
seemed from his book on this topic that Perry might
actually be a principled federalist and a principled
libertarian. He writes, full of sweet reason and
tolerance: “We can all still be proud Americans while
acknowledging that we simply do not agree on many
fundamental issues. If you don’t support the death
penalty and citizens packing a pistol, don’t come to
Texas. If you don’t like medicinal marijuana and gay
marriage, don’t move to  California .”  Change of Heart  But since he wrote that, in 2010, he apparently has
had a change of heart. Today, he supports the  Defense
of Marriage Act , a federal law imposing a gay-marriage
ban on the states.  The lesson here is that there are no federalists in
political foxholes. When an issue comes along that you
-- or people you are trying to entice to vote for you -
- really feel strongly about, you aren’t going to let
considerations of states’ rights get in your way.  On the other hand, “Turn it over to the states” is
a favorite dodge for national politicians of all
stripes when there is an issue they want to duck. As if
there were the slightest evidence that state
governments are more efficient or less corrupt than the
feds.  In fact, the evidence is quite the other way: If
you had to choose between the federal government or the
typical state government to handle your affairs, if you
had any sense, you would choose the feds.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 