-- 
Carlyle Files for Initial Public Offering to Join Blackstone

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-09-06T17:22:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/carlyle-group-files-for-ipo-joining-blackstone-kkr-seeking-public-cash.html
Carlyle Group, the second largest
manager of private-equity funds, filed plans to join rivals
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and KKR & Co. as a publicly traded company
amid signs the buyout market is weakening.  Carlyle, which hasn’t set a  price range  or the number of
shares it aims to sell, registered for an initial public
offering of $100 million by next year, according to a filing
today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. That
amount is a placeholder to calculate filing fees and the final
amount may vary.  The Washington-based firm, which has discussed an IPO for
years, is proceeding as investors again grow skittish about the
buyout business. Last month, Blackstone and KKR had their worst
one-day declines in more than a year on concerns that a falling
stock market will hinder their ability to sell companies. A
surge in borrowing costs, signs that the  U.S. economy  has
stalled and skittish lenders are also threatening deals.  “Firms don’t seek capital unless they need it or they
think investors will overpay for an asset,” said  Harold Bradley , chief investment officer of the Ewing Marion Kauffman
Foundation in  Kansas City ,  Missouri , which promotes
entrepreneurship. “Carlyle is looking into the future and
seeing its fundraising cycle lengthening and, as a result,
declining fees and they’ve identified this as the time to
sell.”  24 IPOs Shelved  Private-equity firms combine debt with money from
endowments, foundations, pensions and wealthy individuals to buy
stakes in companies or acquire them. The firms usually take fees
equal to about 2 percent of fund assets and 20 percent of
investment profits.  Carlyle co-founder  William Conway  told Bloomberg News last
year that the firm was gearing up for a public share sale to
amass permanent capital. The offering will also give Carlyle’s
co-founders, including  Daniel D’Aniello  and  David Rubenstein , a
way to eventually begin converting their ownership stakes to
cash while helping the firm compete with Blackstone, whose
assets have surged 43 percent year-over-year to a record $159
billion.  Carlyle has internally debated an IPO since at least 2007,
when Blackstone first sold shares to the public. The global
financial crisis of 2008 brought leveraged buyouts to a halt and
prevented Carlyle from moving forward.  Net Income Rises  The firm is proceeding with the offering even as at least
24 U.S. initial offerings seeking a total of more than $3.4
billion have been shelved or scrapped in the three months ended
Sept. 6, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
most since the same period in 2004, when 28 IPOs were withdrawn
or postponed, Bloomberg data show.  In an effort to beef up demand, Carlyle and its advisers
have been talking to analysts and investors since at least June
to convince them that it is the right time to buy Carlyle stock.  The filing required Carlyle for the first time to publicly
disclose earnings. The firm said net income attributable to
 Carlyle Group  rose to $1.27 billion in the first six months of
the year from $304.3 million a year earlier. Revenue increased
to $2.07 billion from $762.5 million. Assets under management
were $107 billion as of June 30 and increased to $153 billion
this quarter, helped by the acquisition of AlpInvest Partners
NV.  Shareholder Losses  Blackstone, which is based in New York, reported revenue of
$2.46 billion for the first half, up from $1.25 billion a year
earlier. Net income attributable to shareholders rose to $128.9
million from a loss of $314.7 million a year earlier.  Shareholders who bought private equity firms at their
offering prices haven’t done well so far. Blackstone, which
completed its $4.8 billion IPO in June 2007, trades 61 percent
below the offering price.  Apollo Global Management LLC ended last week 36 percent
below its IPO price. The firm, founded by  Leon Black , raised
$565 million in its March 29 offering, and its shares have never
ended a day of trading above their $19 offer price.  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  has lost 83 percent of its
market value since the firm raised $729 million in a February
2007 IPO.  Since its founding in 1987, Carlyle has expanded its buyout
business into countries outside the U.S., opening 35 offices on
six continents, two-thirds more than Blackstone’s 21 global
offices.  Beyond Buyouts  Carlyle, which has helped take over companies ranging from
coffee shop operator Dunkin’ Donuts Inc. to pipeline
transportation company Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP, has
invested about $46.7 billion since inception. Those investments
were valued at $84.5 billion as of June 30.  In an effort to court public investors, Carlyle has
recently tried to diversify earnings beyond its share of the
buyout investment profits, which stockholders consider volatile
and, as a result, value less than management fees that the firms
generate. Carlyle has been bulking up its global market
strategies unit, which includes  hedge funds , and agreed in
January to buy Dutch private-equity fund of funds manager
AlpInvest.  Carlyle picked JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup Inc. and
Credit Suisse Group AG to underwrite the offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristina Alesci in  New York  at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  