-- 
Carlyle Lags Blackstone in Moving Beyond Leveraged Buyouts

-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-09-07T13:31:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/carlyle-trails-blackstone-as-private-equity-firms-race-to-move-beyond-lbos.html
Carlyle Group LP disclosed in a
filing to go public how much it has trimmed its reliance on
corporate buyouts and how far it has to go to catch  Blackstone
Group LP (BX)  in the race among private-equity firms to diversify.  Funds investing in real estate, infrastructure and energy
accounted for about 17 percent of profit in the first half, up
from 9 percent in all of 2010, Washington-based Carlyle said
yesterday in the registration statement for its initial public
offering. The unit that runs  hedge funds  and structured-credit
funds generated 14 percent of earnings in the first six months.  Carlyle derived almost 70 percent of its profit in the
first half from its mainstay business of buying and selling
stakes in companies, more than double the amount at  New York- 
based Blackstone, the world’s biggest private-equity firm by
assets. Stock-market investors prefer more predictable sources
of income, pushing both firms, along with KKR & Co. and Apollo
Global Management LLC, to expand beyond debt-financed
acquisitions of companies.  “The rules of the game are about generating stable and
attractive  cash flow  going forward,” said Oliver Gottschalg,
associate professor of strategy and business policy at HEC
School of Management near Paris. “It means some level of
diversification to make sure they are not overly reliant on one
specific asset class.”  Carlyle increased assets under management to $107 billion
as of June 30 from $16 billion at the end of 2003, according to
the filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. In
July it completed the purchase of AlpInvest Partners NV,
boosting assets to $153 billion and adding another new business:
private-equity funds of funds, which invest money for clients in
third-party managers.  Blackstone Hedge Funds  Blackstone oversaw $159 billion as of June 30 across all
its units. Co-founder  Stephen Schwarzman  has pulled in new
assets through businesses such as hedge funds of funds, which
managed $40.6 billion as of June. The unit had $500 million in
2001, Schwarzman said in July.  At Blackstone, private equity accounted for 31 percent of
the firm’s profit in the first six months of the year, trailing
real estate’s 56 percent share. The real estate profit was
inflated in part by an accounting provision that required
Blackstone to recognize some unrealized gains on investments.  Still, Blackstone has been the most successful in moving
past leveraged buyouts. The real estate division is raising a
new $10 billion fund. The firm also has bulked up its debt and
loan businesses, anchored by the GSO unit it acquired in 2008.
Blackstone had $33.8 billion in assets in the credit unit as of
June.  KKR Efforts  At KKR, co-chairmen  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts  have
moved into business such as underwriting and lending. The New
York-based firm is set to launch its first hedge fund later this
year after hiring a group of former Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
managers led by  Bob Howard .  KKR’s public markets businesses, which includes its asset-
management unit, accounted for about 4 percent of profit during
the first six months. The private-markets unit, which includes
private equity, also has some non-LBO efforts such as its oil
and gas investments.  Apollo’s buyout business contributed 76 percent of profit
in the first six months. The New York-based company’s capital
markets investments, including hedge funds and distressed loan
funds, delivered 24 percent, while the real estate segment
reported a small loss.  Valuation on ENI  Private-equity firms and Wall Street analysts track profits
using a measure called economic net income, which doesn’t
conform to generally accepted accounting principles. ENI doesn’t
include some costs, including non-cash charges tied to the firms
conversions to public companies, that are counted in GAAP net
income. It also includes the current value of unrealized
investments.  Carlyle had ENI of $770.2 million the first six months,
compared with $1.47 billion at Blackstone and $1.1 billion at
KKR. Apollo reported ENI of $529.8 million in the first half.  Blackstone’s market valuation of $13.5 billion is about
9.56 times its ENI in 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. At the same multiple, Carlyle would be valued at $9.7
billion.  The companies’ efforts to sell themselves to stock-market
investors as broad-based asset managers have yet to deliver
results. Blackstone, which completed its $4.8 billion IPO in
June 2007, trades at 60 percent below its $31-a-share offering
price.  Investment Results  KKR first filed for an IPO in July 2007, then ditched that
offering in favor of a combination with its publicly traded
European fund. The combined firm listed in  New York  in July 2010
and has gained 4.9 percent since. Apollo has fallen 36 percent
since its IPO at the end of March.  Carlyle is touting investment results similar to those
posted by Blackstone and KKR. Carlyle said its private-equity
funds have delivered average annual returns of 31 percent since
inception, according to the filing. That figure accounts for
returns on realized and partially realized investments, the firm
said. Its overall average annual return for the period was 27
percent. Blackstone has told investors its private-equity funds
have an average annual return of 31 percent, and KKR’s return
was 26 percent. Apollo averaged a 39 percent return as of June
30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  