-- 
BHP, Xstrata’s Cerrejon Coal Mine Says CEO Teicher Resigns

-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 
2011-09-06T17:43:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/cerrejon-says-colombia-ceo-leon-teicher-resigns-as-of-december.html
Cerrejon, the world’s largest open-
pit mine of coal for export, said Chief Executive Officer Leon
Teicher resigned, effective Dec. 31.  Teicher, who has been the Colombian mine’s CEO since May
2006, is leaving for personal reasons, according to an e-mailed
company statement today. Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the
world’s largest mining company; London-based  Anglo American Plc (AAL) 
and Zug, Switzerland-based  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  each own 33.3 percent of
Cerrejon.  Teicher oversaw the design of a $1.3 billion plan announced
last month to expand production at Cerrejon to 40 million metric
tons in 2017 from 32.5 million tons this year. Under Teicher,
the mine in the northern Colombian province of La Guajira made
its first shipments of coal to China last year.  Cerrejon, Drummond Co. and MPX Energia SA, the energy
company controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , are
among companies investing in coal production in Colombia, South
America’s largest supplier of the commodity.  The price of coal will probably hold near current levels
for years, aided by demand in China, Europe and  Latin America ,
Teicher said Aug. 24 in Bogota. A second expansion now being
studied at Cerrejon may push output to 60 million tons.  Benchmark European coal prices with settlement next year
slid 10 cents, or 0.1 percent, to $128.65 a metric ton today,
according to broker prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Colombia’s coal production this year probably will meet or
surpass 80 million tons even after storms hindered output,
according to Energy and Mines Minister Carlos Rodado. Colombia
produced 74.4 million tons last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  