-- 
Cheney Tortures Readers With Old-Hat Washington Tales: Review

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   S h r i b m a n
-- 
2011-09-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/cheney-tortures-readers-with-old-hat-tales-from-inside-the-beltway-review.html
The vice presidential memoir is not
a celebrated literary genre. Not a soul alive remembers Spiro Agnew’s crackpot assertions in “Go Quietly ... or Else” or
even one passage from Dan Quayle’s “Standing Firm.” And
despite all the hoopla around Dick Cheney’s memoir, including
 Condoleezza Rice ’s assertion to Reuters that Cheney mounted an
“attack on my integrity,” “ In My Time ” is a dud.  Some Washington memoirs are dull yet important. This book
is merely dull.  Cheney has great material, of course. It goes to waste. He
trots out an old-hat recitation about how Team Bush thought
there were weapons of mass destruction in  Iraq , only to discover
later that there weren’t. The man who seemed to revel in being
compared to Darth Vader and who was the most forceful advocate
for what he euphemistically called “enhanced interrogation
techniques” doesn’t even try to make a thoughtful, developed
case for torture.  Most of this volume follows Cheney’s passage, well known,
through the corridors of power, providing a serviceable history
of the Nixon-Ford years and the Reagan-Bush ascendancy. But who
today cares about how or why James Schlesinger was fired as
secretary of defense or how a hoarse  Gerald Ford  asked Cheney to
deliver his concession remarks to  Jimmy Carter ?  Indeed, the reader has the inescapable feeling that this
memoir is crammed with the p’s (platitudes) and q’s (quotidian
episodes of Washington life) not so much to add ballast to the
book as to fill it out so Cheney doesn’t have to linger on his
vice presidency. His observations about Abscam? Spare me.  Running With Bush  Yet  George W. Bush ’s selection of Cheney as his running
mate was one of the true hinges of history. Cheney soon realized
he was the only person in the White House “the president
couldn’t fire” -- a fateful epiphany.  The book is studded with stultifying vice-presidential
boilerplate about the pre-eminence of the president; in Cheney’s
telling, he stood in the president’s shadow rather than casting
his own shadow or prowling the capital as a shadowy figure. Yet
he did tell NBC News’s Tim Russert, “We’ve got to spend time in
the shadows in the intelligence world” -- one of the
understatements of the decade.  True, we are confirmed in the notion that it was on
Cheney’s initiative that the order went out to shoot down
hijacked airliners on Sept. 11, 2001.  “If it looks threatening, take it out,” he said, after
discussions with the president. The 9/11 commission later
learned the order wasn’t passed along to all the fighter pilots.  He discloses that sometimes the “undisclosed location”
where he was hidden was actually his home. Plus we learn that
his too-bumptious dog Dave was banned from the main lodge at
Camp David.  Second Guessing  This book has a few elements of second guessing (directed
at President  Barack Obama ) and very few second thoughts (the
 Bush administration  underestimated the changes going on in
 Turkey  and didn’t grasp the sense of betrayal among the Shia in
Iraq after the U.S. abandoned them following the  Gulf War ).  Cheney does assert that Rice “made a major mistake” in
the inscrutable Niger yellowcake episode; says the same about
Bush when he failed to pardon Scooter Libby; and criticizes
 Colin Powell  for dining out on an opposition to the  Iraq war 
that he never shared when it mattered.  The abuses at  Abu Ghraib ? He calls them the acts of a
“relatively small group,” which is true but not the point.  The most revealing part of “In My Time” is the part
that’s usually the least interesting in political memoirs, the
de rigueur, once-over-lightly treatment of the early years.  Child of Democrats  Here Cheney brings a sense of reflection, irony and
humanity that are missing in what might otherwise be the juicy
stuff. We learn that this child of Democrats was born in a
hospital named for the prairie radical William Jennings Bryan,
delivered the local paper, played ball and fell in love with a
pretty girl named Lynne who was a champion baton twirler.  But he was  Dick Cheney , not the Ragged Dick of the hard-
luck-and-pluck Horatio Alger stories. We see him being thrown
out of Yale twice because the dean didn’t think much of his
taste for beer and then arrested twice because the police didn’t
approve of his driving under the influence of bourbon.
Interesting stuff; this is perhaps the only memoir in political
history that actually goes downhill after college.  Dick, we hardly knew ye, and this book doesn’t much help.  “In My Time: A Personal and Political Memoir,” written
with Liz Cheney, is published by Threshold Editions (565 pages,
$35). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (David M. Shribman is executive editor of the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
David M. Shribman at  dshribman@post-gazette.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 