-- 
Chilean Bond Yields Reach Two-Year Low on Global Growth Concern

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-09-06T14:36:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/chilean-bond-yields-reach-two-year-low-on-global-growth-concern.html
Chilean bond yields fell to the
lowest level in two years as traders priced in slower economic
growth and lower  interest rates  and investors steeled themselves
for a possible second global economic crisis.  The yield on a basket of 10-year inflation-linked central
bank bonds fell 7 basis points, or 0.07 percent point, to 2.20
percent at 10:32 a.m. New York time. That’s the lowest since
March 2009, when Chile was fighting its deepest recession in a
decade. The yield on similar bonds due in five years fell 11
basis points to 2.06 percent.  Earlier today the yield on 10-year central bank bonds in
pesos fell below the yield on five-year bonds for the first time
since April, a sign investors are bracing for a long period of
low central bank rates. Chilean bond prices are surging as
investors shift assets into local fixed income in preparation
for global economic weakness and a slowdown in domestic growth.  “When people think rates are going to fall that means
yields fall, and when the curve inverts it’s because people
expect low rates for some time,” said Dalibor Eterovic, an
economist at Larrain Vial SA in Santiago. “The Chilean economic
cycle is showing more weakness and there is another factor,
which is the probability of a global crisis driving a
rebalancing of portfolios to be able to withstand a large
shock.”  Chile ’s central bank yesterday reported economic growth
slowed in July to 4 percent, less than the 4.5 percent median
forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Pension Flows  Local pension funds, which have a combined $156 billion of
total assets under management, are shifting out of equities and
international bonds into local bonds and international investors
are buying emerging-market domestic bonds for safety and the
relatively higher yields, Eterovic said.  The one-year interest-rate swap yield in pesos, an
indicator of traders’ estimates for the average of future
central bank rates, fell 13 basis points to 4.65 percent, the
lowest since February. The current benchmark central bank rate
is 5.25 percent.  Chile’s peso slid for a third day, weakening 0.2 percent to
464.05 per  U.S. dollar , from 462.93 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  