-- 
China Seeks International Debt Rating Agency

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-06T05:59:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/china-seeks-international-debt-rating-agency.html
China ’s Dagong Global Credit Rating
Co. is aiming to cooperate with fellow rivals to the world’s
three largest graders of debt in an effort to strengthen
international competition.  Dagong, the Beijing-based company founded in 1994, came up
with the plan this year, and options regarding the structure of
the cooperation and the site of any headquarters are still being
discussed, Chen Jialin, deputy general manager of the
International Department, said by telephone. South Korea’s NICE
Investors Service Co. is among those in talks with Dagong, said
Pi Kyung Won, planning department general manager.  The proposals, while undefined, signal that the Chinese
firm is stepping up its efforts to rival  Standard & Poor’s ,
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, which have
dominated the business. The three have come under criticism by
lawmakers and officials for assigning top grades to U.S.
mortgage-securities that collapsed in 2007-2008.  “The idea itself is good and desirable as the Big Three
rating agencies are believed to represent the interest of  Wall
Street ,” Pi at NICE, a unit of South Korea’s National
Information & Credit Evaluation Holdings, said by telephone.
“Emerging countries, especially in  Asia , feel they’re at a
disadvantage. It would be good for investors as they can get
more diversified information for their decisions.”  Global Effort  The China Daily newspaper earlier reported that Dagong
Chief Executive Officer Guan Jianzhong hopes the planned new
agency will obtain a leading position in the rating market
within the next five years. The enterprise will be set up with
organizations in  Europe , the U.S., as well as the fastest
growing emerging nations that make up the BRICS -  Brazil ,
 Russia , India, China and  South Africa , the paper said, citing no
sources.  “Dagong proposed us to participate in the plan to create a
’super-sovereign’ rating firm and we’re considering whether to
take part,” said Pi. “Dagong’s plan will be pretty challenging
as it will take a while to build up reputations and respect
around the world.”  Chen at Dagong said “a few options are being studied” on
where to base the enterprise. Proposals for the structure
include a joint-venture type organization, according to Chen.  Dagong has had cooperation or communication with credit
rating companies in countries including  Japan ,  South Korea  and
Brazil, according to its website. It announced China’s first
sovereign credit rating standards in 2009.  Dagong on Aug. 3 cut its sovereign rating for the U.S. by
one step to A, the sixth-highest level and on a par with Russia
and South Africa. China is the largest international holder of
U.S. Treasuries.  Two days later, S&P, the New York-based subsidiary of
McGraw-Hill Cos., cut the U.S. to AA+ from AAA, a step that’s
been followed by a rally in Treasuries that today sent benchmark
10-year yields to their lowest level on record. Moody’s and
Fitch have affirmed their AAA credit ratings for the U.S. while
warning that the ratings could be downgraded if debt reduction
measures aren’t enacted.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  