-- 
Chinese Vitamin C Makers Must Face Trial in U.S. in Price-Fixing Lawsuits

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-09-06T21:11:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/chinese-vitamin-c-makers-must-face-u-s-antitrust-trial-judge-decides.html
North  China  Pharmaceutical Co. and
three other Chinese makers of vitamin C must face trial in U.S.
lawsuits accusing them of price fixing, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Brian M. Cogan, in a decision posted on
the case docket today in  Brooklyn , New York, denied the
companies’ request to rule in their favor without a trial. The
vitamin makers argued that the Chinese government forced them to
fix prices, Cogan said.  “The three doctrines upon which defendants rely recognize
that a foreign national should not be placed between the rock of
its own local law and the hard place of U.S. law,” Cogan wrote.
“Here, there is no rock and no hard place. The Chinese law
relied upon by defendants did not compel their illegal
conduct.”  The defendants, including Aland (Jiangsu) Nutraceutical
Co.,  Northeast Pharmaceutical (000597)  Co. and Weisheng Pharmaceutical
Co., captured more than 60 percent of the worldwide market for
vitamin C by 2001, according to Cogan. China’s share of vitamin
C imports to the U.S. climbed to more than 80 percent in 2002
from 60 percent in 1997, he wrote.  The class actions were filed by direct buyers of vitamin C
who distribute it or make it into products, William A. Isaacson,
a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said in a telephone interview. His
firm, Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP, helped win a $1.1 billion
antitrust settlement from European and Japanese vitamin makers
in 1999, he said.  ‘Cheap Product’  “Cheap Chinese product broke up the vitamin C part of that
cartel,” Isaacson said. “The irony is that by 2001 you had
this.”  Richard Goldstein, a lawyer for Aland (Jiangsu) at Orrick,
Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP in  New York , declined to comment on
Cogan’s ruling.  North China’s unit in the case is Hebei Welcome
Pharmaceutical. Charles Critchlow, a lawyer for Hebei Welcome at
Baker & McKenzie LLP in New York; James Serota, a lawyer for
Northeast Pharmaceutical at Greenberg Traurig LLP in New York;
and Daniel Mason, a lawyer for Weisheng Pharmaceutical at Zelle
Hofmann Voelbel & Mason LLP in  San Francisco , didn’t immediately
return calls for comment on the decision.  The case is In re Vitamin C Antitrust Litigation, 06-md-
1738, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 