-- 
China in Time of Millionaires Frustrates Neighbor: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-09-06T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/china-in-time-of-millionaires-frustrates-neighbor-william-pesek.html
Asia ’s biggest rivalry is looking
more and more one-sided. There’s no competing with China’s 9.5
percent growth as the U.S. sheds jobs, Europe unravels and
 Japan ’s deflation deepens.  Even though Asia’s other rising superpower,  India , is
zooming along at 7.7 percent, try getting anyone to pay much
attention.  Spend a few days in Mumbai and the conversation is all
China, China, China. How can we compete? In what way is  India’s
economy  superior? Why does our impressive post-Lehman-Brothers
performance get no attention? Then head to China’s business
center, Shanghai, and see if India even comes up. In fact, many
Chinese businesspeople resent the suggestion that their economy
has anything in common with India’s.  China  may regret this oversight for two reasons. One,
China’s winning streak probably will run into structural hurdles
in the next five years. Two, for all their many differences,
China and India have more challenges in common than Beijing may
want to admit.  No matter how much the media, corporate glitterati and
financial intelligentsia scrutinize China, we don’t know if it
can beat the system, so to speak. No industrializing nation has
ever avoided a financial crisis. Not one.  Common Challenges  For all its smarts, $3 trillion of currency reserves and
firm control over the economy, Beijing must contain inflation,
reduce pollution, shift away from exports and avoid social
unrest as millions of people flock to the cites from the
countryside. Can China grow almost 10 percent year after year
without a hitch? The odds don’t favor it given the worsening
state of the global economy.  Here, it’s worth noting the challenges India and China
share, and there are many. They include huge and growing gaps
between rich and poor, corruption, asset bubbles, the risk that
piles of loans will go bad if world markets crash anew, regional
disparities, environmental degradation, huge appetites for
resources, sex inequalities that mean boys outnumber girls and
angst over their place in the world.  Caveats abound, of course. Few would say China’s corruption
is as endemic as India’s, though China’s vulnerability to a
Japan-style bad-debt crisis far exceeds India’s. The angst
factor, too, requires nuance. Indians are perturbed that their
rapid growth and democratic institutions don’t get more kudos
globally. Chinese want a bigger say in global affairs but resent
the developed world demanding too much from a developing nation.  Whither ‘Chindia’?  The commonalities have revived the buzz about “Chindia,”
or the idea that as much as China and India might compete, they
may well complement each other. China and India are the most
populous nations, nuclear powers and the two fastest-growing
major economies. China’s is already bigger than Japan’s and
India’s may be only a few years away from topping Japan on a
purchasing-power-parity basis.  China has a huge head start when it comes to the roads,
bridges, ports and power systems needed to raise  living
standards , and it receives the bulk of Asia’s direct investment.
India has done better in creating a genuine economy with
globally competitive companies, innovative products and world-
class entrepreneurs. Imagine if they worked together?  Yet the geopolitical rivalry is growing. Look no further
than tensions related to global resource access, griping among
Indians that China’s trade practices are undermining their
manufacturing industries or Beijing’s suspicions about  New
Delhi ’s close ties to  Washington .  Follow the Money  If ever there were a time for corporate executives and
investors to follow the money, it’s now. At the moment, China
clearly is the stronger capital magnet. By 2015, China’s
millionaires may account for about half of the rich people
across 10 major economies in Asia, excluding Japan, and hold
more than half of the wealth, according to a study by Julius
Baer Group and CLSA Asia Pacific Markets.  It’s not that simple, though. A new  RAND  Corp.  report  looks
ahead to 2025 and finds that as China and India grow in
prominence, each has certain advantages, but neither is primed
to have a clear, across-the-board competitive edge over the
other. And India’s advantages -- a growing working-age
population, and open and flexible political and economic systems
-- will be good things to have during the next 15 or so years.  China’s plusses over India are nothing to sneeze at. China
graduates 70 percent more engineers annually than does India --
600,000 compared with 350,000, RAND’s researchers say. Its vast
investments in science and technology could dwarf India’s much-
celebrated software industry.  Yet India may be moving into a period of major reforms as
the anti-corruption movement led by  Anna Hazare  reverberates
through the nation. Morgan Stanley Asia Ltd. economist  Chetan Ahya  isn’t exaggerating when he calls India the most promising
structural growth story anywhere today. What if recent events in
India compel the government to get its act together?  The thing is, no one knows. That goes, too, for whether
China has struck upon some new formula for economic growth and
can avoid a crash. All we can say for sure is that what we think
we know about Asia today might be turned on its head in coming
years. China versus India could be a case in point.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Shanghai  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 