-- 
China Vows to Toughen Control After Report of Libya Arm Sales

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   C h r i s   S t e p h e n
-- 
2011-09-06T12:59:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/china-vows-to-toughen-control-after-report-of-libya-arm-sales.html
China  said it will tighten control
over exports of arms following a report that companies offered
to sell weapons to Muammar Qaddafi’s regime in violation of
United Nations sanctions.  Talks between the companies and Qaddafi’s representatives
in Beijing in July took place without the government’s
knowledge, Jiang Yu, a spokeswoman for China’s Ministry of
 Foreign Affairs , said in Beijing yesterday. The companies were
acting on their own, she said at a briefing today, adding that
China hoped Libya’s new government would respect its interests
and honor existing contracts.  Jiang spoke after comments by Libya’s new leaders yesterday
that the North African nation’s relations with China will suffer
if the report that Chinese state companies offered to sell
Qaddafi $200 million of arms during the rebellion is confirmed.  “If indeed the Chinese government agreed to sell arms to
Qaddafi only a month ago, definitely it will affect our
relationship with China,” the National Transitional Council’s
finance minister, Ali Al Tarhouni, told Al Jazeera television
yesterday.  A reporter for Toronto’s Globe and Mail newspaper  said  he
found Qaddafi-government documents suggesting Chinese companies
offered to sell to surface-to-air missiles designed to bring
down aircraft, in addition to other weapons and munitions.  Beijing Trip  The Arabic-language documents, copies of which were posted
on the newspaper’s website on Sept. 4, include details of a trip
to Beijing by Libyan security officials to discuss the possible
purchase of weapons on July 16, when  Libya  was under a UN arms
embargo.  “The Qaddafi regime sent people to China to make contact
with certain individuals of relevant Chinese companies in July
without the knowledge of government departments,” Jiang said
yesterday. “Chinese companies have not signed any military
trade contracts with Libya, let alone sold arms to Libya.”  “This was an act of individuals, of relevant companies,
and this contact did not lead to any actual act of export,” she
said. “China will continue to strictly implement the UN
resolution and further strengthen management of military
exports.”  Vehicles of army troops loyal to Qaddafi, who is in hiding
after rebel forces took control of the capital, Tripoli, late
last month, have crossed the border into  Niger  this week. The
vehicles entered the Niger city of Agadez late yesterday and
were headed to the capital, Niamey, Salley Kolle, a police
officer, said today by phone. Niger’s Nomade FM radio station
reported yesterday that Qaddafi’s intelligence chief, Mansour
Daw, was in the convoy.  Documents in Trash  The reporter found the documents relating to China in the
trash in Tripoli’s Bab Akkarah neighborhood, where Qaddafi
loyalists had lavish homes, the newspaper said. The material
suggested the arms would be delivered through third countries
such as  South Africa  or  Algeria . The documents didn’t confirm
whether any military assistance had been delivered.  Popular sentiment among many Libyan rebels is already
against China because of a perception that the nation objected
to the UN  Security Council  resolutions in March that authorized
the arms embargo, sanctions and an air campaign.  “We don’t want China, because China is not going with
us,” a Misrata hotel executive, Mahmoud Al Malbrook, said in an
interview. “China, it deals all the time with Qaddafi.”  The image of China as harmful to the Libyan rebel cause is
widespread in areas under the control of the National
Transitional Council. China hasn’t yet recognized the NTC, while
about 60 states have.  ‘Wrong Horse’  In late May, Abdeljalil Mayuf, spokesman for Arabian Gulf
Oil Co., at the time the largest  oil company  in rebel hands,
said in an interview in Benghazi that China would suffer a
penalty for a perceived lack of support for the UN resolutions.  “There must be a reordering for  India , China,  Brazil ,”
Mayuf said. “I am sure that some of these contracts will be
canceled. Russia and China have personal control with sons of
Qaddafi. They gambled on the wrong horse.”  Chinese  oil companies  are among 44 businesses that have
contracts for oil exploration in concessions agreed on with
Libya since 2007. The NTC has repeatedly said it will honor all
of Libya’s contracts.  Abdul Hakim Moktar, a rebel fighter based in Misrata, said
the opposition wants to use the postwar period to reward
friendly nations and punish unfriendly ones. He singled out
Qatar, the U.S., Britain and  France  as “friendly” states and
characterized China and  Russia  as “unfriendly.”  “The countries who helped us, we will not forget them,”
he said in an interview. “In this war, many people love us and
we will not forget them. China did not help us.”  Yet even in Misrata, where sentiment against China seems
strong, trade with the country continues. A consignment of
several thousand plastic independence flags arrived in the city
last month to be given out for planned street celebrations when
the war officially ends. The flags were made in China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  