-- 
Chrysler Names Two Directors, Elects Sergio Marchionne Board Chairman

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-09-06T22:58:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/chrysler-elects-sergio-marchionne-chairman-of-board-names-two-directors.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the U.S.
automaker majority-owned by  Fiat SpA (F) , named two new directors
and elected  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of both
automakers, as Chrysler’s chairman.  Chrysler said it named Leo Houle and John Lanaway as
independent directors, effective immediately. The directors
appointed yesterday replace Robert Kidder, George Gosbee and
Scott Stuart, who have decided to resign.  Marchionne is “just consolidating his position,” Gerald Meyers, a business professor at the  University of Michigan , said
in a telephone interview yesterday. “They will resoundingly
underscore what Marchionne wants to do.”  Marchionne had said he expected to make changes to
Chrysler’s board by the end of August. Fiat took a 53.5 percent
stake on a fully diluted basis in July when it purchased the
remaining U.S. Treasury and Canadian governments’ stakes in the
Auburn Hills, Michigan-based company.  Houle retired in July 2008 from  BCE Inc. (BCE)  and Bell Canada as
chief talent officer.  Lanaway was executive vice president and chief financial
officer of  North America  for McCann Erickson until June.  Houle and Lanaway were both elected to the board of CNH
Global NV in 2006. The agricultural and construction equipment
business is majority owned by Fiat Industrial SpA, which was
spun off from Fiat last year.  Merger Plans  Marchionne, 59, aims to merge Fiat and Chrysler to reduce
costs and generate more than 100 billion euros ($140 billion) in
revenue by 2014. He said in May that timing hasn’t been decided,
adding that it’s not likely this year. In July, he created a 22-
person group executive council, including himself, to run both
automakers.  Chrysler emerged from bankruptcy in June 2009 and had nine
board members. Three were appointed by Fiat, then holding a 20
percent stake, four by the U.S. government, one by the Canadian
government and one by the United Auto Workers retiree health-
care trust. The Turin, Italy-based automaker plans to own 58.5
percent by year’s end. The UAW’s trust holds the remainder.  The U.S. originally picked 3Stone Advisors LLC Chief
Executive Officer Kidder; Stuart, founding partner of Sageview
Capital LLC and former partner at Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co.;
former Northwest Airlines Corp. Chief Executive Officer Douglas Steenland; and Ronald Thompson, chairman of the board of
trustees for Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association.  Steenland and Thompson remain on the board; Thompson was
elected lead director, Chrysler said yesterday.  Gosbee, chairman and CEO of investment bank Tristone
Capital Inc., was appointed by  Canada .  Former Michigan Governor James Blanchard, a Democrat, was
selected by the UAW trust. Marchionne, Alfredo Altavilla and
Stephen Wolf, chairman of R.R. Donnelley & Sons Co. and former
chairman and CEO of UAL Corp. and US Airways Group Inc.,
represent Fiat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  