-- 
Colin Firth Turns Spy, Fassbender Craves Sex in Venice Movies

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-09-06T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/colin-firth-turns-spy-michael-fassbender-craves-sex-venice-film-reviews.html
There’s a Soviet mole in the
intelligence service, and  Gary Oldman  needs to find out who.  So begins “Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy,” adapted from
the John Le Carre novel, with John Hurt and  Colin Firth  also in
the cast. A contestant for the top prize at the Venice Film
Festival, it premiered there earlier this week.  At the festival news conference, Firth -- wearing a black
shirt under his gray summer suit -- said he was confident the
film would do well.  “I do think there’s an appetite to be stretched,” he
said. “I don’t think that people just want slash-and-burn.”  Firth may be right. There are enough spymasters and Cold
War hitmen to keep moviegoers gripped, especially as
concentration is needed to keep up with the plot.  Set in 1973, the movie shows agents codenamed Tinker,
Tailor (played by Firth) and Soldier who are suspected of being
double agents by Control (Hurt), the head of the Circus (as the
service is known). Oldman’s character, George Smiley, picks up
where Hurt left off.  The movie has a great plot, look, and cast. Yet it doesn’t
capture the complexities of British society -- not least the
class system -- and often veers into caricature. Characters wear
tweed a lot, convene in gentleman’s clubs, and at crucial
meetings, slather butter over toast triangles.  The likely explanation for this cliched portrayal is that
filmmaker Tomas Alfredson is Swedish. Attractive though his film
is, it would have been better served by someone with less of an
outsider’s view. Rating: **1/2.  McQueen’s Shame  Brandon is an emotional cripple: He’s addicted to sex in
just about all combinations, and pathologically averse to human
relationships.  The Manhattanite is the antihero in Steve McQueen’s
“Shame,” which, despite brash displays of frontal nudity,
received an ovation at its red-carpet Venice premiere. In the
demanding title role is the talented  Michael Fassbender , who
played hunger-striking Irish republican Bobby Sands in McQueen’s
first movie “Hunger” (2008).  “It’s uncomfortable doing sex scenes,” he admitted to
reporters. “You just have to jump into it, really. You just
have to go for it, so you don’t have to do too many takes.”  Brandon leads a bleak life in his sleek New York apartment.
He wakes up every day to erase voicemails from a bruised ex-
girlfriend. The only company he keeps is a topless stripper who
talks to him via Webcam, and knows his tastes, which range from
escort girls and threesomes to gay sex and self-eroticism.  Singer Sister  One day, Brandon comes home to find his long-lost sister
(the excellent  Carey Mulligan ), a struggling singer who drifts
in and out of trouble. She cozies up to him, getting too close
for comfort (his and ours). As fallible as he is controlling,
she highlights the barrenness of his existence.  McQueen -- also a prizewinning visual artist -- brings his
unique signature to the work. Shots are composed like art, even
when they’re of a steamy menage a trois. There are impressively
long sequence shots, as in “Hunger.” Music (especially Bach)
is so well used, it becomes an actor in the film.  “Shame” confirms McQueen as one of the most original
talents in world cinema. It’s unlikely he’ll leave  Venice  empty-
handed. Rating: ****.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Farah Nayeri in  Venice  at  farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 