-- 
Congolese Opposition Says Armed Men Attacked Its HEadquarters in Kinshasa

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-09-06T13:20:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/congolese-opposition-says-armed-men-attacked-its-kinshasa-headquarters.html
Offices and a television station
were burnt down in Democratic Republic of Congo’s capital,
Kinshasa, after protests before November presidential elections
deteriorated into violence between political parties.  Armed men including supporters of President Joseph Kabila’s
People’s Party for Reconstruction and Democracy attacked the
headquarters of the opposition Union for Democracy and Social
Progress and a broadcaster supporting the party at about 2 a.m.
today, Serge Mayamba, the UDPS’s chief of staff, said in a phone
interview from Kinshasa. The incident followed an arson attack
on the PPRD’s headquarters, according to an e-mailed statement
by New Congolese Civil Society, a rights group.  Kabila has ruled the central African country since 2001,
when he replaced his assassinated father. He won the first free
and fair elections in four decades in 2006, triggering an
investment boom focused mainly in the southern Copper Belt.  “This time the confrontation is much more serious” than
clashes between protestors and the police in July, Marc-Andre
Lagrange, a Congo analyst with the Brussels-based International
Crisis Group, said in an interview. “We still have to see how
capable the National Independent Electoral Commission is in
bringing confidence back into the election process.”  UDPS President Etienne Tshisekedi, a veteran opposition
leader, says that the ruling party is planning to rig the
November presidential poll in the world’s top producer of
cobalt, a metal used in rechargeable batteries.  Tshisekedi boycotted the 2006 election. The UDPS now wants
access to the electoral commission’s server, which contains
election data, and a list of the nation’s polling stations with
their addresses to ensure the count is fair, Mayamba said.
Police used tear gas and gunfire last week to break up protests
campaigning for the access.  Kinshasa’s police chief, General Jean-Dieudonne Oleko,
declined to comment on the matter when contacted on his mobile
phone today. PPRD spokesman Emile Bongeli was not available for
comment, an assistant who answered his mobile phone said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 