-- 
Cordray Looks Beyond Lawsuits to End Abuses as Consumer Enforcer

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-09-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/cordray-looks-beyond-lawsuits-to-end-abuses-as-consumer-enforcer.html
Richard Cordray , President  Barack Obama ’s nominee to run the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau, gained national attention by suing major financial firms
including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and Ally Financial Inc. over botched mortgage servicing.  Yet Cordray, who filed those suits as Ohio’s attorney
general, says he sees the new federal agency as a way to enhance
consumer protections through a range of responses besides
litigation.  The consumer bureau has a “bigger and more flexible
toolbox” than he had in Ohio, including research, regulations,
consumer education and supervision of financial firms, Cordray
said in testimony prepared for his Senate confirmation hearing
today and obtained by Bloomberg News.  “I know from my own experience that lawsuits can be a very
slow, wasteful, and needlessly acrimonious way to resolve a
problem,” Cordray said in the testimony.  Cordray plans to tell members of the Senate Banking
Committee that in some cases, he believes litigation can be
beneficial for business as well as consumers.  “If people are ignoring or evading consumer protections
laws -- and seeking to gain an unfair advantage over their law-
abiding competitors -- then litigation is an essential tool, and
we will use it judiciously,” Cordray said in the testimony.  Cordray, 52, is currently working as director of the
bureau’s enforcement division. There is no timetable for a vote
on his nomination, by either the committee or the Senate.  No Guarantee  In fact, there’s no guarantee that the Senate will vote on
his nomination at all, said Mark Calabria, director of financial
regulation studies at the  Cato Institute . Because his nomination
is widely opposed by Republicans, the Senate could fail to act
until after the 2012 presidential election, leaving the agency
without a confirmed director through the end of Obama’s
presidential term, Calabria said in an interview.  Forty-four Republican senators have vowed to block
Cordray’s path to the director’s post, saying they will object
to any nominee unless the bureau is substantially restructured.
In the 100-member Senate, nominees generally need 60 votes for
confirmation.  “They’re saying, ‘We don’t care if he’s Mother Teresa.
He’s not going anywhere’,” said Calabria, a former aide to
Senator  Richard Shelby , the top Republican on the banking
committee.  No Director  The consumer bureau officially began work on July 21 and is
headed by Raj Date, whose title is “adviser to the Treasury
Secretary.” When a director is confirmed, the consumer bureau
becomes an independent agency within the  Federal Reserve .  Republicans forced Congress into “pro forma” sessions
over the August break, a step that prevented Obama from using
his powers to make Cordray director as a recess appointment.  As  Ohio  attorney general, Cordray’s work on financial
services went beyond bringing lawsuits against Wall Street
banks. In particular, Cordray helped create a new regulatory
regime that brought mortgage brokers under state regulation.  During the fight in the Congress over the Dodd-Frank Act
that created the consumer agency, Cordray argued that regulation
was crucial to prevent the industry from sliding back into bad
practices. In February 2009, quizzed as to whether the
industry’s own changes made government rules redundant, Cordray
scoffed at the notion that banks can regulate themselves.  “If they are making the changes, then they really can’t
complain about the burdens the agency would create,” Cordray
told reporters on a conference call, according to a transcript.
“This would simply be oversight to make sure that it isn’t a
one-time thing and that it sustains itself over time.”  Cordray declined to be interviewed for this article. CFPB
spokeswoman Jen Howard said he was turning down all requests
during the nomination process.  Ohio Bankers  Not all bankers oppose Cordray’s nomination. He has picked
up the endorsement of the head of the  Ohio Bankers League ,
Michael Van Buskirk, who wrote the Senate on July 25 that
Cordray would prove “an able director” of the consumer bureau.  “Consumer protection has been a lifelong concern, and he
has gone about it in innovative ways,” Van Buskirk said in an
interview. “He also understands that consumer protections are
not worth it if they are outweighed by the costs.”  Van Buskirk said that in Ohio, Cordray learned to work with
small banks as well as major players: Huntington Bancshares
Inc.,  Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB)  and  KeyCorp (KEY) ’s KeyBank are all based in
Ohio. JPMorgan Chase and U.S. Bancorp’s U.S. Bank have major
operations there.  Foreclosure Prevention  While Ohio’s treasurer from 2006 to 2008, Cordray served on
the state’s Foreclosure Prevention  Task Force , which drew up
recommendations for how to keep Ohioans in their homes. That
marked him as unusual, said Jennifer Flatter, staff director for
the group, because the treasurer was not expected to be active
on housing issues.  Cordray endorsed a strategy that mixed enforcement with new
regulations on mortgages. “His approach was well-rounded,”
Flatter said in an interview.  One key result of the task force, which Cordray supported,
was a licensing law for mortgage brokers. The initial round of
applications demonstrated that 10 percent of the state’s brokers
had criminal records, said Van Buskirk of the bankers’ league.  “We now have one of the strongest consumer-protection laws
for mortgages,” David Rothstein, a researcher with  Policy
Matters Ohio , a Cleveland-based policy analysis group. “It
would be really difficult to do subprime in Ohio again.”  Publicity  Cordray has also endorsed publicity as a tool in fostering
change. For instance, he quietly encouraged an activist group in
Ohio that tossed plastic “loan” sharks onto a bank executive’s
lawn to draw attention to mortgage abuses. And he has said the
consumer bureau could hold “investigative hearings” to shed
light on trends in consumer finance.  “Don’t underestimate the power of an agency to identify
abusive practice and bring it into the light of day,” Prentiss Cox, a former Minnesota assistant attorney general in charge of
enforcement, said in an interview. “You can often solve the
problem simply by highlighting it.”  To the extent that the consumer bureau chooses litigation,
Cordray’s presence as director portends tight cooperation with
state  attorneys general , said Bernard Nash, head of the state
attorneys general practice at the law firm Dickstein Shapiro
LLP.  Elizabeth Warren , the former Obama administration adviser
who set up the bureau, wooed state officials with promises of
support from  Washington .  “This makes for an even higher probability that the
consumer bureau is going to work hand-in-glove with the
attorneys general,” Nash said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 