-- 
Corporate Bond Risk Falls in Europe, Credit-Default Swaps Show

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 
2011-09-06T13:07:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/corporate-bond-risk-rises-in-europe-credit-default-swaps-show.html
The cost of insuring against default
on European bank bonds rose to a record as the region’s debt
crisis roils credit markets.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of
25 banks and insurers increased eight basis points to 278,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. at 2 p.m. in London. The price
fluctuated earlier, and the subordinated index was up 7.5 at
488.5 basis points.  Ministers from Finland, Germany and the Netherlands meet
today to discuss a Finnish demand for collateral in return for
agreeing a second Greek bailout, and Italy’s Senate is debating
an austerity plan amid a strike. The Swiss central bank said
it’s setting a minimum exchange rate for the franc against the
euro, which it will defend with “utmost determination,” after
the currency surged to a record last month, hurting exports and
eroding economic growth.  “With this level of volatility, it’s pretty difficult to
say whether anything is sustainable,” said Hank Calenti, head
of bank credit research at Societe Generale SA in London.  The index of senior financial debt risk climbed from 120
basis points in April and the subordinated gauge is up from
about 200 basis points. Credit-default swaps on Madrid-based
 Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP)  increased 46 basis points to 845,
according to CMA.  The cost of insuring sovereign debt was mixed. Credit-
default swaps on Greece jumped 90 basis points to a record 2,640
basis points, CMA said.  SovX Index  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of swaps on 15
governments rose three basis points to a record 329.  Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-
default swaps on 40 companies with mostly high-yield credit
ratings increased 16.5 basis points to 772, the highest level
since July 2009, according to JPMorgan prices.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings climbed four basis points to 187.5. A
rise signals worsening perceptions of credit quality.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($14.1 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  