-- 
Cycling Eyes Races in Sochi, Rio for Revenue as Top Teams Mull Breakaway

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-09-06T12:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/cycling-eyes-races-in-sochi-rio-for-revenue-as-top-teams-mull-breakaway.html
Cycling’s ruling body, which is
sending  elite riders to Beijing  for a race next month, is
planning to stage events in Brazil, Russia and India as it comes
under pressure from teams to raise revenue.  The  Union Cycliste Internationale  aims to put on a race
that passes through Sochi, Russia, as early as 2013 and will
discuss the plans with President Dmitry Medvedev on Sept. 9, UCI
head Pat McQuaid said yesterday in a phone interview. The
inaugural Tour of Beijing is from Oct. 5-9.  All but four of the 27 races on the UCI’s  elite schedule 
are in Europe. The ruling body is seeking to boost the sport’s
profile and income as some teams mull a breakaway competition
because they don’t get a cut of the sport’s revenue. The Aigle,
Switzerland-based UCI, whose budget is being stretched by the
strength of the Swiss franc, is prepared to share future profits
from the new events, McQuaid said.  “The teams need to understand that they are part of this
strategy,” McQuaid said. “Some of the team managers are
radicals, some of them are thinking too short-term” by planning
a breakaway, he added. “The UCI has to be wary about that.”  The financial growth of cycling has been stunted by doping
scandals, such as the positive test by 2010 Tour de France
winner Alberto Contador, which have made it harder to attract
sponsorship teams rely on to survive. Typically, squads have an
annual budget of $10 million, according to team association
president Jonathan Vaughters. The Tour de France is among only
“one or two” races that make a profit, according to McQuaid.  TV Cameras Barred  Earlier in the year, some teams hired a bank to look into
starting a breakaway series, former Giro d’Italia race director
Angelo Zomegnan said in an interview, declining to identify them
or the bank. During July’s Tour de France some of the U.S.-based
teams including Garmin and HTC barred cameras from their
vehicles on the grounds they don’t get a cut of the race’s
television revenue.  Vaughters, who manages the Boulder, Colorado-based Garmin
team, says teams are “constantly” vulnerable to sponsors
pulling out. The HTC team from San Luis Obispo, California,
whose rider Mark Cavendish won five stages at Tour de France, is
folding after this season because it says it can’t find a new
sponsor. Johan Bruyneel, who oversaw Lance Armstrong’s seven
Tour wins, said in a July 19 interview the prize money teams get
from the race is some 55,000 euros ($78,000) and doesn’t cover
expenses, Bruyneel said.  Bruyneel’s RadioShack team will next year merge with
Leopard-Trek, which doesn’t have a main sponsor this season, the
teams said yesterday. Leopard-Trek’s Andy and Frank Schleck came
second and third at this year’s Tour.  Tour de France Income  It would be “very hard” for teams to share more of the
Tour de France income because the race’s financial structure has
been established for decades, McQuaid said. The Amaury family --
which has controlled the event since the 1940s -- and Lagardere
SCA shared 136.6 million euros of dividends from the Tour and
other sports events between 2004 and 2008, filings by Amaury
Sport Organisation, or ASO, show.  McQuaid first explored holding a race in Beijing after it
was awarded the 2008 Olympics, although city authorities became
too “preoccupied” with the Games to carry through their
initial interest, he said. Late last year, they phoned him to
say they were interested in an event to promote cycling and
reduce car pollution. Paris-based ASO will organize next month’s
race that will include all top teams.  The race won’t bring quick profits for teams, McQuaid said.  “There is no way the Tour of Beijing is going to be
realizing the TV revenues of the Tour de France for a very, very
long time,” McQuaid said. “This is a long-term strategy.”  Medvedev Meeting  He said he plans to speak to Medvedev at a sports
conference in Saransk on Sept. 9 about a stage race that would
include Sochi, the host of the 2014 Winter Olympics. He is also
in talks with cycling federations in Brazil and India about
staging top-level races there, he said, adding the 2016 Summer
Olympics in Rio could help provide a platform for an annual race
in South America’s biggest country.  The UCI, which has an annual budget of about 22 million
Swiss francs ($26 million), is also coming under financial
pressure because most of its income is in euros and dollars and
its 90 staff are paid in francs, McQuaid said. The currency
surged more than 18 percent against the euro in the year through
yesterday as a hedge against financial losses.  “There is continuous pressure on the UCI to balance its
books and make ends meet and so therefore other revenue streams
are really necessary,” McQuaid said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  