-- 
Daimler to Test Smart Electric Cars in Hong Kong as Smog Worsens

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-06T11:08:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/daimler-to-test-smart-electric-cars-in-hong-kong-as-smog-worsens.html
Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s second-
largest manufacturer of luxury cars, will provide a trial
version of its Smart electric car to partners in Hong Kong as
the city battles record pollution.  Daimler’s partners in the trial, which include the Hong
Kong Jockey Club and Swire Coca-Cola HK, will use the two-seater
car for six to 12 months, the carmaker said in a statement
today. Stuttgart-based Daimler’s Mercedes Benz unit will offer a
service center with technicians and mechanics.  The pilot program, which will run for four years, joins a
push by automakers such as  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  and Nissan
Motor Co. to introduce electric vehicles in Hong Kong, where
pollution reached “very high” levels on a record one in four
days in 2010, according to government data. The city government
plans to replace some fuel-powered vehicles with electric ones
and is trying hybrid buses, lawmakers said in February.  “A combination of electric vehicles and cleaner energy is
a very good recipe for Hong Kong to become a greener city,”
 Edward Yau , Hong Kong’s environment secretary, said today. The
city has 170 electric vehicles and will increase the number of
charging stations to 1,000 in a year from 300, he said.  Smart Car  Daimler’s Smart electric car, which can travel 135
kilometers (84 miles) on a full charge, won’t be produced
globally until 2012, according to the automaker’s  website.  In
 Asia , the company has launched similar pilot programs in
Indonesia,  Japan  and  Singapore .  The other four partners who will get the car in Hong Kong
are CLP Power Hong Kong Ltd., Jardine Airport Services Ltd., Yan
Chai Hospital and Hongkong Electric Co.  Vehicles are the second-biggest source of pollution in  Hong
Kong  after power stations, and their numbers rose 9.6 percent
between 2004 and 2009, according to the government.  Nissan agreed to supply advance units of its Leaf electric
car to Hong Kong, the government said in January. Mitsubishi
Motors already sells its battery-powered i-MiEV in the city.  Daimler’s Mercedes marque was the second-largest luxury car
brand based on the latest full-year numbers.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  