-- 
Loeb’s Third Point Starts Reinsurance Firm With $500 Million to Get Funds

-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-09-07T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/daniel-loeb-s-third-point-starts-reinsurance-company-with-500-million.html
Daniel Loeb , the founder of Third
Point LLC, started a reinsurance company that can invest in his
$8 billion hedge fund, joining rival  David Einhorn  in seeking
more permanent capital.  Third Point Re, which is based in  Bermuda , hired John Berger as chief investment officer and has about $500 million in
capital, according to two investors familiar with the plan. New
York-based Third Point wants to raise $250 million to $500
million more and plans to eventually sell shares of the
reinsurer to the public, said the investors, who asked not to be
identified because the firm is private.  Loeb follows Einhorn, head of New York-based Greenlight
Capital Inc., in creating a reinsurer as a way to raise capital
for his hedge fund that isn’t subject to client redemptions.
Reinsurers, which help insurers shoulder risk, earn premiums
that they invest to make a profit.  “We believe that the combination of Third Point’s
longstanding exceptional asset management returns, Mr. Berger’s
standout underwriting track record, and a reinsurance market
that may improve following multiple events in the past 12 months
make it a promising time to launch Third Point Re,” according
to a letter sent yesterday to Third Point investors.  Third Point raised capital from private-equity investors
Kelso & Co. and Pine Brook Road Partners LLC, along with Loeb
and insurance executives, including Berger, according to the
letter.  Rising Rates  Berger has almost three decades of experience in the
reinsurance business, according to the letter. He was previously
president and founder of Chubb Re Inc. and was most recently the
chief executive officer of reinsurance for Bermuda-based Alterra
Capital Holdings Ltd.  Reinsurance rates are likely to rise after natural
disasters this year. Earthquakes in  Japan  and  New Zealand  and
flooding in  Australia  contributed to more than $70 billion in
insured losses in the first half of the year, according to a
report from  Guy Carpenter & Co. , the reinsurance brokerage of
New York-based Marsh & McLennan Cos. That may help reverse the
price declines in recent years, said Kevin Lee, vice president
and senior credit officer at Moody’s Investors Service.  “The general sentiment is that rates are going to migrate
up on a nominal basis,” said Lee, in a telephone interview.
Prices have declined worldwide in four of the last five years on
fewer losses, according to the Guy Carpenter World Property
Catastrophe Rate on Line Index.  Class of 2005  Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., the largest U.S.-
based reinsurer, has said it has the capacity to write more
business when rates rise. The company has limited the volume of
reinsurance it sells because of pricing in recent years,
according to regulatory filings.  Banks, private-equity firms and  hedge funds  have formed
reinsurers in the past to take advantage of rising rates after
losses from natural disasters. The so-called Class of 2005
reinsurers were formed after  Hurricane Katrina  and other storms
caused record industry losses.  Einhorn started his reinsurer in 2004 and started writing
insurance a year later.  Third Point’s plans were reporter earlier by Reuters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  