-- 
Danish Mortgage Group in Warning Against Liquidity Curbs During the Crisis

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-06T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/danish-mortgage-group-warns-against-liquidity-caps-during-crisis.html
Denmark’s mortgage bankers group,
which represents  Europe ’s biggest covered-bond market backed by
home loans, said plans to impose liquidity rules will exacerbate
financial market turmoil amid signs the worst crisis since the
Great Depression is far from over.  “It’s all about finding the right dosage and the right
implementation strategy,” Ane Arnth Jensen, managing director
at the Association of Danish Mortgage Banks in Copenhagen, said
in a phone interview yesterday. “Politicians should choose to
proceed carefully with the implementation of liquidity rules”
especially when “growth is scarce.”  Denmark has fought to change rules set by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  that it says would penalize the
country’s $470 billion mortgage-bond market. In July, the
European Union agreed to ease Basel’s stance and base liquidity
assessments on tests instead of an asset’s class. Basel had
assigned sovereign debt a higher liquidity status than non-
government bonds. The rules are due to be implemented by 2015.  That may be too early.  Denmark ’s Local Bankers Group has
warned that the country’s financial crisis could last another
four years as government efforts to avert further insolvencies
are hampered by elections and Scandinavia’s slowest economic
recovery. Banks already face a liquidity squeeze as they
approach a 2013 expiry date on government bond guarantees, the
group’s Chairman Bent Naur said in an interview last month.  The chief executive officer of Deutsche Bank AG,  Josef Ackermann , said this week market conditions remind him of late
2008, and urged lawmakers to act to avoid a repeat of the
financial crisis that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holding Inc.  ‘On The Agenda’  Global regulators may already be looking into scaling back
plans to impose liquidity rules as they seek to stave off a
funding squeeze that risks stalling bank lending, the Financial
Times reported yesterday.  “This suggests that it’s very much on the agenda to
consider whether the Basel liquidity rules may have some adverse
effects in a low or no growth situation,” Arnth Jensen said.  The Nordic country has argued that the so-called Basel III
standards, which require banks to limit non- government bonds  to
40 percent of their liquid assets and book the debt at 85
percent of its market value, don’t properly take into account
the liquidity of Denmark’s mortgage market. Banks would be
forced to sell off their holdings of the securities to satisfy
the Basel rules, while the country’s government bond market is
too small to fill the gap, Arnth Jensen has warned.  ‘What’s Liquid’  “It’s important to define what is liquid and what is less
so, and we obviously believe that Danish mortgage bonds have the
liquidity needed,” she said. “It’s clear that Danish mortgage
bonds should be treated as liquid assets.”  The bonds carry higher credit ratings than more than half
the sovereigns inside the euro area. Trading in Denmark’s short-
term covered bonds -- securities backed by the  cash flow  from a
pool of  mortgage loans  -- rose during the financial crisis, both
in the total value of bonds traded and in the median size of
individual trades, according to a study published last year by
the Danish central bank. It was easier to trade short-term
mortgage bonds than government notes, the study found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  