-- 
Greek Collateral Deal Unresolved in Berlin Talks, Jan Kees De Jager Says

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-09-06T22:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/de-jager-says-no-agreement-reached-on-finland-collateral-1-.html
A meeting of finance chiefs from
three of the euro area’s AAA-rated countries failed to break a
deadlock over  Finland ’s demands for collateral in return for
aiding Greece, Dutch Finance Minister Jan Kees  de Jager  said.  “Technical” issues remain unresolved, De Jager told
reporters in Berlin late yesterday after he met with German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and Finnish Finance Minister
Jutta Urpilainen. The matter of collateral, while “very
important to Finland,” was only touched upon briefly, he said.  “What’s holding up everything in the present situation is
Greece and whether or not they are compliant in the current
program,” De Jager said. “We are very confident that if it is
on the table we will solve” the collateral dispute, which
relates to the second Greek bailout, not the current aid
package. “Much more urgent is the issue of compliance.”  Finland and other euro-area countries are scrambling to
forge a deal that balances Finnish demands for  Greece  to put up
collateral without wrecking the second rescue aimed at stopping
the debt crisis from spreading to global markets.  Even so, “collateral was not a real issue” at the talks,
De Jager said. “We touched upon it upon our exit,” he said.
“We need a solution that is workable, acceptable and agreeable
to all 17 euro zone countries. That we did conclude.”  De Jager said that the next tranche of money can’t be paid
out to Greece unless the Greek government complies with the
terms of its aid package, echoing comments made to German
lawmakers earlier yesterday by Schaeuble.  The Dutch government proposes “as automatic as possible
sanctions” for euro-area countries that breach debt and deficit
limits, de Jager said. An “independent commissioner,” such as
the European Union’s Competition Commissioner, could be the
arbiter, and governments could ask the  European Court  of Justice
to impose sanctions, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at  jhertling@bloomberg. 