-- 
Rancor Hangs Over U.S. Supercommittee as Budget-Cut Talks Start

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-09-06T04:00:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/debt-ceiling-rancor-hangs-over-supercommittee-as-effort-on-deficit-begins.html
As the  U.S. Congress  returns to
work, the budget-cutting supercommittee is expected to take
center stage amid no signs the August break eased raw relations
between Republicans and Democrats.  President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner , an
Ohio Republican, clashed anew last week over the scheduling of a
presidential speech outlining a jobs agenda, a spat that could
help set the tone among the 12 lawmakers on the bipartisan
committee.  “They have given tremendous amount of leeway and power to
the supercommittee, that’s where all the eyes are,” said  John Feehery , who advised former Republican House Speaker Dennis Hastert, of  Illinois . “Republicans and Democrats have to decide
whether they are comfortable with the status quo going into the
election or if they need a game changer.”  The supercommittee’s work will start as more immediate
skirmishes loom over competing job-creation plans and federal
funding for highways,  air travel  and federal disaster aid.  Confrontations over those issues could feed the public’s
discontent in advance of next year’s elections. Obama’s approval
rating, at 42 percent in yesterday’s  Gallup tracking poll , has
been as low as 38 percent since he signed into law the agreement
passed in early August to raise the federal borrowing limit and
instruct the six Republicans and six Democrats on the
supercommittee created by the accord to find $1.5 trillion
dollars in budget savings by Nov. 23.  Automatic Cuts  As the supercommittee approaches that deadline, the specter
of automatic, across-the-board spending cuts will heighten
pressure for a deal. The law that raised the debt limit calls
for those cuts to domestic and defense programs if the committee
deadlocks or Congress fails to adopt its plan.  The debt-limit deal hasn’t improved attitudes toward
lawmakers, who fare even worse than Obama in public opinion
polls. According to an Aug. 17 to 21 Pew Research Center poll,
public approval of Congress has dropped to 22 percent, down 9
points from June.  While the supercommittee begins negotiations, an initial
spotlight will be on jobs.  After Boehner and Obama jockeyed over the date of the
president’s jobs speech to Congress, the address was set for
Sept. 8. Obama’s prescription for more infrastructure spending,
tax incentives to spur hiring, and other measures stands in
contrast to the Republican vision for job growth, which will be
outlined by Boehner next week.  “The political passions will be ratcheted up” over the
issue, said  Ross Baker , a political scientist at Rutgers
University in New Brunswick,  New Jersey . And it’s unlikely a
large-scale jobs initiative will become law, he said.  ‘Leftovers’ Agenda  “Anything that costs money is not going to get through the
House,” Baker said. “It’s a dinner of leftovers.”  In a memo last week to Republican lawmakers, House Majority
Leader  Eric Cantor  of Virginia said the party will focus on
limiting government regulations, including environmental and
labor rules, in its jobs plan. The proposal will include
repealing or scaling back Environmental Protection Agency rules
on power plant pollution, ozone standards and greenhouse gas
emissions, Cantor said in the Aug. 29 memo.  Another dispute is over funding for the  Federal Aviation
Administration , which Obama has warned could carry dire
consequences for the nation’s construction workers.  Congress has until Sept. 16 to agree on an extension that
will allow the FAA to continue funding airport construction
projects and collecting airline ticket taxes.  FAA Shutdown Losses  The agency was forced to partially shut down on July 23,
furloughing about 4,000 employees and losing what a Bloomberg
analysis estimated was $448 million in uncollected taxes before
resuming normal operations Aug. 8.  Though the House and Senate each passed versions of long-
term bills allowing FAA to operate, the chambers have been
unable to reach agreement on labor provisions, FAA funding
levels and financial assistance for airline flights to rural
airports.  Representative  John Mica , the Republican chairman of the
House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, and Senator
Jay Rockefeller, the Democratic chair of the Senate Commerce
Committee, have signaled that they aren’t close to reaching
agreement on the long-term bill. Even passage of a short-term
extension remains in doubt.  Hurricane Irene   Disaster relief is also expected to spark a spending fight.
A Senate committee is poised to seek more funding for the
government’s disaster fund as officials assess damage from
Hurricane Irene, which left flooding and destruction from  North
Carolina  to  Vermont . Cantor is demanding budget cuts to offset
any increase in the disaster fund, while  Senate Democrats  say
funding shouldn’t be delayed by political disputes over the
budget.  There are potential areas of agreement, including pending
legislation on trade and patent policy.  In Obama’s weekly radio address broadcast on Aug. 20, he
repeated his call for Congress to pass free-trade agreements
with  South Korea , Colombia and Panama.  While the White House hasn’t formally sent up the accords
negotiated under President  George W. Bush , Senate leaders agreed
last month to end an impasse when they return by taking up the
agreements and a benefits program for workers that the Obama
administration has championed.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, and
Republican Senate leader Mitch McConnell of  Kentucky  on Aug. 4
pledged to consider the worker aid program, called Trade
Adjustment Assistance, and then take up the accords.  Korea Pact  Senate Republicans including Orrin Hatch of  Utah , the
party’s senior member on the Finance Committee, had balked at
the administration’s plan to combine worker aid, which some
Republicans oppose, and the Korea trade deal, which they
support, into a single bill. That plan was dropped.  In the House, opposition is expected from Tea Party-backed
Republicans who oppose the spending on the worker assistance and
from Democrats who want stronger worker protections in the trade
deals.  Senate action is also expected on a measure that would mark
the most sweeping changes to U.S. patent law in more than 50
years.  Patent Legislation  The legislation, approved in the House, would allow the
U.S.  Patent and Trademark  Office to set its own fees and have
greater control over its budget. The agency, which is funded
entirely by user fees, has sought an end to lawmakers’ practice
of steering some of that money toward non-patent purposes. The
Senate version would put the agency outside Congress’ normal
appropriations process, which the House bill wouldn’t do.  The administration has supported giving the agency more
flexibility in its funding, saying that’s needed to reduce a
backlog of some 700,000 applications awaiting a first review by
examiners.  Supporters say speeding up the application process would
help attract venture capital dollars that help fund new or
expanding businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  