-- 
Dell to Make Smartphones With Baidu for China Wireless Users

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-06T07:28:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/dell-to-work-with-baidu-on-smartphones-using-new-mobile-platform.html
Dell Inc. (DELL) , the second-biggest
personal-computer maker, agreed to produce smartphones running
Baidu Inc. software for users in  China , challenging mobile
device makers including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics Co.  The phones will use the Beijing-based search-engine
operator’s Baidu Yi mobile platform, Theresa Shen, a China-based
spokeswoman for Dell, said by e-mail today without elaborating.
Dell is among mobile device makers that Baidu works with, said
Baidu spokesman Kaiser Kuo, declining to confirm that the
collaboration includes the Yi platform.  Baidu, China’s biggest Internet company by market value,
last week unveiled its Yi platform to offer wireless users more
direct access to the company’s services including search, maps
and an electronic reader. The introduction of the software,
which supports applications based on Google Inc.’s Android
operating system, follows the development of a similar
technology by rival Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.  Android was the best-selling smartphone operating system
worldwide in the second quarter with a 43.3 percent share of the
market, led by Samsung and HTC Corp., according to Gartner Inc.
Apple had an 18.2 percent share.  Dell, based in  Round Rock ,  Texas , is seeking to increase
sales of smartphones and tablet computers amid waning demand for
conventional personal computers.  The Baidu Yi technology has been released to application
developers, and is not yet available for consumers, Kuo said
Sept. 2.  In July, Alibaba, China’s biggest online commerce company,
unveiled an operating system it developed for mobile phones that
lets users access applications such as online shopping with
cloud computing technology.  Baidu accounted for 75.9 percent of China’s search-engine
market by revenue in the second-quarter, rising from 75.8
percent in the previous three months, according to research
company Analysys International.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  