-- 
Eastern U.S. Drenched by Two Weather Systems Threatening Floods

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-09-06T09:19:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/eastern-u-s-drenched-by-weather-systems-threatening-floods-1-.html
The eastern U.S., including New
York, and parts of southern Canada are expected to get drenching
rains from two different weather systems currently moving across
North America.  The remains of Tropical Storm Lee are bringing heavy rains
across the U.S. South, pushing streams and rivers out of their
banks, while a slow-moving cold front is wringing out enough
precipitation to prompt flood warnings throughout the Northeast,
according to the  National Weather Service .  “Primarily there is a slow-moving front across the area
that is tapping into some of the moisture that is down there
with the remains of Tropical Storm Lee,” Kyle Struckmann, a
weather service meteorologist in Upton, New York, said by phone.  Flash-flood watches and warnings stretch from Maine to
Mississippi in the U.S., according to the NWS. Rainfall warnings
have been issued for southern Quebec and western New Brunswick,
according to  Environment Canada .  The U.S. Northeast, which was drenched by rains from
Hurricane Irene 10 days ago, is saturated, Struckmann said.  “There hasn’t been a whole lot of opportunity for the
ground to dry up at all,” he said. “The ground is pretty
saturated and it doesn’t take much rainfall to lead to a
flooding or a flash-flooding situation. That is why we have the
watch up.”  Flash-Flood Warnings  Rain may fall at rates of one inch (2.5 centimeters) per
hour in New York, the flash-flood watch issued for the city and
parts of southern Connecticut and northern New Jersey showed.  Across the U.S. South, the remains of Lee, now a weakening
low-pressure system, continue to drop heavy rain, according to
the weather service.  In Chattanooga, Tennessee, 8.16 inches of rain fell in 24
hours, an all-time high that broke the old mark of 7.61 inches
set on March 29-30, 1886, according to the weather service.
South Chickamauga Creek, in Chickamauga, Tennessee, the site of
a U.S. Civil War battle, rose 15.6 feet in 17 hours, according
to a weather service river gauge.  In Walnut Grove, Mississippi, 12.34 inches of rain fell in
24 hours and 10.68 inches at Jackson International Airport in
Mississippi’s state capital, a weather service statement said.  The Pearl River in Jackson rose 22.74 feet in 24 hours,
according to a weather service river gauge.  Continued Rain  Rain is expected to continue through the middle of the week
across much of the south including Tennessee, Georgia and North
Carolina. It is expected to continue until Sept. 8 in New York
and much of the U.S. Northeast.  As of yesterday at 11 p.m., one river gauge registered a
flood stage in the Northeast, according to the weather service.  Struckmann said the wet weather in the Northeast may have
one benefit in that it may help keep Hurricane Katia, which has
maximum winds of 125 miles (205 kilometers) per hour, away from
the U.S. East Coast. He said the frontal system bringing the
rain may contribute to the “blocking mechanism” that is
expected to keep the Category 3 hurricane at bay.  Katia became a “major” hurricane with winds above 111
miles per hour as it moved over open waters in the Atlantic, the
Miami-based National Hurricane Center said in an  advisory  at 5
a.m. New York time today. The storm was 400 miles south of
Bermuda and moving northwest at 10 mph, the center said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  