-- 
Eastern Europe’s Borrowers See Relief as Swiss Cap Franc Rate Against Euro

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-09-06T10:54:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/eastern-europe-s-borrowers-see-relief-as-swiss-peg-franc-to-euro.html
Switzerland ’s ceiling on the franc’s
exchange rate will bring relief to eastern European borrowers
struggling to repay Swiss franc loans and cash-strapped
governments running out of options to help them.  The  Swiss National Bank ’s imposition of a minimum rate of
1.20 francs per euro sent the Hungarian forint soaring as much
as 10 percent against the Alpine currency, the most on record,
to as much as 225.784. The zloty rose as much as 9 percent to
3.453.  Hungary  and  Poland , the two countries most-indebted in
Swiss francs, suffered after monthly installments soared when
investors sought safety in francs and shunned euros and dollars
as the European and U.S. debt woes roiled markets. Two-thirds of
Hungarian  mortgage loans  and 54 percent of Polish loans are
based in francs. That’s equivalent to 16 percent of gross
domestic product for Hungary and 10 percent of GDP for Poland,
according to UBS Wealth Management.  “I see it as a breakthrough,” Gabor Orban, who helps
manage $2.5 billion in central and eastern European debt at
Aegon Fund Management in Budapest, said of impact of the SNB
move on Hungary. “It’s very good for OTP, for consumption, very
good for value-added-tax receipts,” Orban said. The decision
also benefits bonds because of its impact on Hungary’s budget.  OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender which has seen its
non-performing loans rise, gained 6 percent to 4,190 forint at
11:18 a.m. in Budapest. Getin Holding SA, the Polish financial-
services group controlled by billionaire Leszek Czarnecki,
soared 4.8 percent to 8.49 zloty and BRE Bank SA, a unit of
Commerzbank AG, increased 3.1 percent to 241.2 zloty. Bank Pekao
SA, majority-owned by UniCredit SpA, climbed 1.4 percent to
135.4 zloty.  Currency Boost  The Swiss decision will “soon” help the zloty strengthen
to 4.15 per euro while the Hungarian forint may advance to 271
versus the European common currency “in the near term,”
 Mateusz Szczurek , chief economist for central and eastern  Europe 
at ING Groep in Warsaw, wrote in an e-mail today. The forint
traded at 275.8 and the zloty at 4.21 per euro at 11:45 a.m.  The franc has surged to records against the euro and the
dollar, hurting Swiss exports and eroding economic growth. While
the SNB last month boosted liquidity to the money market and
lowered borrowing costs to zero, investor concern that
governments may struggle to contain Europe’s worsening debt
crisis has continued to push the currency higher.  Government Help  Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban , who is cloistered
with his Cabinet ministers for a second day in woodland cottages
an hour’s drive west of Budapest, may also get a boost from the
Swiss intervention. Orban is working on additional measures to
plug budget holes and also on new ways to help foreign-currency
borrowers. He will hold a press conference at 3:30 p.m. today.  The government agreed with lenders in May to offer
household borrowers who aren’t late with repayments the chance
to fix a franc exchange rate of 180 forint until the end of
2014. The difference between the fixed-rate payments and those
that would have been made at the actual exchange rates will be
recorded in forint accounts to be settled at a future date.  Orban last week agreed that this was a “temporary
solution” and that it “doesn’t solve the problems” of
debtors. He said banks should shoulder some of the foreign
 currency risk . He didn’t elaborate. Central bank President
Andras Simor and Economy Minister Gyorgy Matolcsy yesterday
agreed to meet to discuss ways to ease the burden on borrowers.  ‘Up Against the Wall’  “For foreign-currency borrowers, the move only takes away
some pressure” because “a lot of the loans were taken out at
much lower Swiss franc levels,”  Nigel Rendell , a London-based
strategist at  RBC Capital Markets , said by phone. “With the
government up against the wall in terms of budget numbers,
they’ll try to shift some of the burden to banks.”  The Swiss decision may increase the room the Hungarian
central bank has to cut rates after policy makers held the two-
week deposit rate unchanged at 6 percent for a seventh month in
August to protect the forint and avoid hurting borrowers.  “Now the central bank could think about a rate cut much
easier than before because they have less uncertainty on
the impact,” Piotr Chwiejczak, a London-based strategist for
 Barclays Capital .  A cut may not be imminent because of policy makers’
concerns over the impact of the continuing European debt crisis,
slowing growth and financial stability, according to Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based economist at Nomura
International.  “We do not see the Monetary Council cutting rates and
still see rates on hold for the next year with the Monetary
Council ‘paralyzed’ in a ‘do-no-harm’ mentality,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  