-- 
Ecodiesel Shareholders Approve $1.08 Billion Biofuel Acquisition

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-09-06T22:50:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/ecodiesel-shareholders-approve-1-08-billion-biofuel-acquisition.html
Shareholders of Brasil Ecodiesel
Industria & Comercio de Biocombustiveis & Oleos Vegetais SA, a
biodiesel maker that lacks an adequate supply of feedstock,
approved today the purchase of closely held agriculture company
Vanguarda do Brasil SA to create a 1.79 billion-real ($1.08
billion) biofuels producer.  Brasil Ecodiesel will trade 1.1 billion reais worth of its
shares for all of Vanguarda’s, said Marcelo Passaglia
Paracchini, chief executive officer of Veremonte Participacoes
SA, the  investment company  that owns 40 percent of Vanguarda.  The approval was announced in a regulatory filing and lets
Enrique Banuelos, who owns Veremonte, create one of  Brazil ’s
biggest agribusiness companies by repeating the strategy he used
in home-building.  The world’s 655th richest man in 2010 according to Forbes,
Banuelos is best-known in Brazil for merging three real-estate
companies to create the nation’s biggest homebuilder, said
Paracchini.  “We’re bringing our financial and strategic skills that we
used in real estate and bringing it to this unconsolidated
sector,” Paracchini said today in an interview.  Brasil Ecodiesel will likely pursue additional deals. “We
want to use our shares as a magnet so other companies exchange
their shares with ours, making us a bigger player” he said, and
another acquisition might be announced within two months.  The shareholder approval comes more than four months after
Banuelos proposed combining Pinheiros, Brazil-based Brasil
Ecodiesel and Vanguarda. The sale is expected to close Thursday
and Banuelos will own 21 percent of the new company, he said.  Brasil Ecodiesel operates six refineries, and Vanguarda
owns 230,000 hectares (568,300 acres) of mainly soy, corn and
cotton plantations in the states of Mato Grosso and Bahia,
according to Paracchini.  ‘Agribusiness Champion’  “We want to make a national champion of agribusiness”
that can “compete with the likes of Cargill Inc.,  Bunge Ltd. (BG) 
and Archer Daniels Midland Co.,” Paracchini said.  Brasil Ecodiesel acquired another agriculture company last
year, Maeda SA Agroindustrial. Vanguarda is Maeda but “bigger
and better,” with more than twice the soy and cotton fields,
and includes 150 harvesters and 13 airplanes for dispersing
seeds and pesticides, Paracchini said.  Brasil Ecodiesel rose 4.9 percent to 64 centavos in  Sao
Paulo  trading today, valuing it at 694 million reais.  Rejected Deal  Brasil Ecodiesel’s board initially rejected the proposed
merger because a director opposed the plan. Shareholders
approved in July a new board that approved the deal.  Enrique Banuelos was the world’s  95th  richest man in 2007
with a net worth of $7.7 billion according to Forbes, before
losing  $6.4 billion  when falling property prices in  Spain  drove
down the value of his real estate company Astroc Mediterraneo SA
by more than 90 percent.  He entered Brazil’s real-estate market by buying stakes in
Abyara Planejamento Imobiliario SA, Agra Empreendimentos
Imobiliarios SA and Klabin Segall SA in 2008 and 2009, then
merged them and sold the combined company to PDG Realty SA
Empreendimentos & Participacoes, according to Osmar Cesar
Camilo, an analyst at the Sao Paulo-based brokerage Sociedade
Corretora Paulista SA, said in an interview.  “He’s trying to do the same thing with agriculture,”
Camilo said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Wade at 
 wwade4@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  