-- 
Lehman Trader Recalls Suicide, ‘Pornographic’ Portfolio: Books

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 
2011-09-06T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/lehman-trader-recalls-suicide-pornographic-portfolio-books.html
One grim night before  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  imploded, trader Jared Dillian drank
himself into a frenzied scream, hugged his cat and downed half a
bottle of the only drug on hand: Tylenol PM, he says.  “I could not even kill myself properly,” he rages in his
disturbingly candid memoir, “Street Freak: Money and Madness at
 Lehman Brothers .”  The cause of Dillian’s distress wasn’t Lehman’s collapse;
that drama unfolded some six years later. His despair reflected
something much more common and corrosive about markets. His job,
index arbitraging, had been automated by a computer program.  “The diabolical index arb robots had taken over my
trade,” he writes in the mocking voice familiar to readers of
his financial newsletter, the  Daily Dirtnap .  Like many desk warriors before him, Dillian had learned
that trading is a brutal battle in which every soldier is
expendable. Self-pity would get him nowhere; he simply had to
find a new way to make money. His struggle to survive and thrive
is what “Street Freak” is all about.  The dust jacket compares the book, perhaps inevitably, to
 Michael Lewis ’s classic take on Salomon Brothers Inc., “ Liar’s
Poker .” That does Dillian a disservice, prompting readers to
expect his book to widen out into a picaresque portrait of
Lehman and the grotesquely inflated egos who flipped the 158-
year-old firm into the graveyard.  Terrorist Fireballs  What we get instead is the highly personal journal of a
poor kid who quit the U.S. Coast Guard to chase his dream of
becoming a trader. Though his story traces the arc of Lehman’s
last years -- from the terrorist fireballs that engulfed its
World Trade Center offices to its bankruptcy filing -- the focus
from start to finish is on Dillian’s trade-to-trade conflict.
It’s a business that brings out the worst in humans, as he says.
It also can threaten their sanity.  Not long after his over-the-counter overdose, Dillian opted
for proprietary trading, placing bets on futures contracts. Soon
he was back in the game, buying, selling, cursing and -- on one
rough afternoon -- smashing his desk phone to smithereens. The
trading floor roared in approval, granting him “a long, lusty
standing ovation,” he says.  Memoirs are like bonds: You don’t necessarily buy them at
face value. Our recollections of past events are fickle, and
Dillian has changed “some names and identifying
characteristics,” as the book says in a stealth note buried on
the copyright page.  Financial Fish Tank  Yet his narrative crackles with authenticity. Though he can
get boastful and vulgar -- obscenities and crude sexual
allusions punctuate his patter -- the dominant tone is
unsparingly confessional and even modest. He doesn’t pretend he
was a big wheel. In his years at Lehman, he rose from raw
recruit to head trader of exchange-traded funds. Fancy titles --
even senior vice president -- eluded him.  “I went into trading to become a rock star,” Dillian says
early on. “What I was, in effect, was one of the snails that
cleaned the fish tank of the financial markets.”  Dillian had no special knowledge of what  Richard S. Fuld Jr . was plotting in “Club 31,” as the 31st executive floor was
known. He didn’t realize that Lehman’s real-estate portfolio had
become “absolutely pornographic,” as he puts it. The only
glimpse he gives us of Fuld is on the bizarre day in September
2008 when the chief executive made a rare visit to the trading
floor to rant about short sellers.  ‘Malignant Omniscience’  Yet Dillian’s snail’s-eye view is what makes his book a
valuable companion to previous volumes on Lehman, including
Lawrence G. McDonald’s “A Colossal Failure of Common Sense.”
From hair-trigger decisions to trashy banter, Dillian captures
how the market feels from inside the belly of a trading room.  The market possesses “a malignant omniscience,” he says.
“You are a sinner in the hands of an angry God, and your
positions are going to pay.”  In this environment, common norms of behavior fall away. On
 Wall Street , you can call a guy a jerk, or worse, without
provoking him, Dillian says, because jerks often make bags of
money. The real insult is to call someone a bad trader.  “It implies that there is something fundamentally wrong
with that person,” he says. “He’s unfit. He’s weak. And worst
of all, he’s a mook. A loser.”  Judging from this blunt and sometimes hilarious account,
Dillian was a good trader. He also was so unhinged that you
wonder why Lehman allowed him past the front desk, let alone
trusted him to execute billions of dollars of trades.  “Street Freak” is published by  Touchstone  (356 pages,
$26). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 