-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Decline for a Third Day on European Debt Concern

-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-09-06T21:45:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/emerging-market-stocks-decline-for-third-day-amid-europe-s-debt-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks fell a third
day as concern that European leaders may fail to contain the
region’s debt crisis hurt the outlook for the global economy.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slid 0.2 percent to 988.05
as of 5:33 p.m. New York time, taking its three-day decline to
4.8 percent. South Africa’s benchmark gauge retreated 1.2
percent. South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  slumped 1.1 percent while
Taiwan’s Taiex index sank 2.4 percent. Benchmark indexes in the
 Czech Republic  and Hungary climbed after  Switzerland  said it
would set a ceiling for the euro exchange rate with the franc.  “The main focus remains on  Europe  after yesterday’s sharp
moves in financial shares and peripheral spreads,” analysts at
 RBC Capital Markets , including Robert Beange in  London , wrote in
an e-mailed report. “Headline risk today will be acute, with
the Italian government debating an austerity package, German,
Dutch and Finnish finance ministers discussing Greek collateral
and a Parliamentary session on Greek aid.”  European stocks completed their biggest two-day drop since
March 2009 yesterday, with the Stoxx Europe 600 Index losing 4.1
percent. Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  called a
Cabinet meeting today to authorize a confidence vote in
Parliament on an amended 45.5 billion-euro ($63.7 billion)
austerity plan that promoted a general strike.  The MSCI emerging-market index has dropped 14 percent this
year, more than the 11 percent decline by the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index
of developed stocks. Companies on the emerging-market gauge are
trading at 9.1 times estimated 12-month earnings, compared with
10.2 times for stocks in developed markets.  Easing Burden  The BUX Index added 0.9 percent in Budapest after the  Swiss
National Bank  said that it would set a minimum exchange rate of
1.2 francs per euro. The forint surged 9 percent against the
Swiss currency, easing concern Hungarian homeowners will
struggle to pay franc-denominated mortgages. The Polish zloty
jumped 8.4 percent against the franc.  “The news has been read as positive for Hungary and Poland
in particular as it will help to ease some of the burden of debt
repayments of franc-indebted households,” RBC wrote.  Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  rose by 1.8 percent after
Morgan Stanley raised the country’s stocks to “overweight”
from “equal weight” in its regional portfolio, saying recent
losses may be overdone.  Service industries  in the U.S. unexpectedly expanded at a
faster pace in August, easing concern the biggest part of the
economy was slumping. The Institute for Supply Management’s
index of non-manufacturing businesses increased to 53.3 last
month from 52.7 in July. Economists forecast the gauge would
drop to 51, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. A reading above 50 signals expansion.  Bovespa Rises  Brazil’s Bovespa index climbed for the first time in three
days, surging 2.9 percent, after the U.S. service industries
rose more than forecast and the nation’s August inflation
accelerated at a pace that was in line with economists’
expectations.  Lojas Renner SA, the country’s biggest publicly traded
clothing retailer, jumped 5.8 percent, after the company was
raised to “outperform” from “market perform” at Bradesco
Corretora. Brookfield Incorporacoes SA, Brazil’s fourth-largest
homebuilder by revenue, leaped 6.4 percent, the most in one
week.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index lost 1.8 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 377, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBI Global Index.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
 Middle East  and Africa credit-default swaps rose six points to
273.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 