-- 
U.S. Employment Index Drops for Fourth Time in Five Months

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-09-06T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/employment-index-in-u-s-drops-for-fourth-time-in-five-months.html
A measure of job prospects in the
U.S. fell in August for a fourth time in five months, reflecting
declines in  consumer confidence  and  job openings  that indicate
payrolls may fail to pick up in the final months of the year.  The Conference Board’s Employment Trends Index decreased 0.3
percent to 100.8 from the prior month’s revised reading of
101.0, the New York-based private research group said today. The
measure was up 4.1 percent from August 2010.  Today’s figures follow a Labor Department report last week
that showed payrolls were unchanged in August, the worst showing
since September 2010, and the  unemployment rate  held at 9.1
percent as discouraged workers left the  labor force . The economy
needs job growth to keep consumers spending and the economy
growing.  “The decline in the index is still not as strong as it was
in the months leading to previous recessions,”  Gad Levanon ,
associate director of macroeconomic research at the Conference
Board, said in a statement. “We still expect the economy to
moderately add jobs in the next several months, but not fast
enough to lower the unemployment rate.”  The Employment Trends Index aggregates eight labor-market
indicators to forecast short-term hiring trends. On average, the
gauge can signal a rebound in hiring as little as three months
before the fact and can predict job declines six to nine months
in advance, the Conference Board said.  Part-Time Workers  An increase in the number of consumers saying jobs were
hard to get in August and a rising number of part-time workers
for economic reasons were among the components that contributed
to the drop in the index, the Conference Board said.  The Labor Department’s payrolls report, released on Sept. 2
also showed private employers added 17,000 workers last month,
fewer than the median estimate in the Bloomberg News survey.  Consumer spending  climbed more than forecast in July as
Americans dipped into savings to buy cars and cool their homes.
Purchases rose 0.8 percent, the biggest gain since February,
after a 0.1 percent decline the prior month, Commerce Department
figures showed Aug. 29.  Banks have been among companies announcing the biggest
dismissals. Bank of America Corp., the biggest U.S. lender, will
eliminate about 3,500 jobs this quarter to focus “on what we
can control” amid market turmoil, said Chief Executive Officer
 Brian T. Moynihan  on Aug. 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  