-- 
Ten-Year Treasuries Most Expensive Ever on Safety Bid, Fed Measure Shows

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-09-06T14:48:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/ten-year-treasuries-most-expensive-ever-on-safety-bid-fed-measure-shows.html
A financial model created by
economists at the  Federal Reserve  that includes expectations for
 interest rates , growth and inflation shows 10-year notes are the
most overvalued ever.  As Treasuries hover near record low yields amid stagnant
U.S. employment and lingering European debt concern, the so-
called term premium, which Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  cited in
a 2006 speech in New York as a useful guide in setting monetary
policy, fell to negative 0.54 percent today, indicating the
notes are expensive when compared with the average 0.84 percent
for the gauge this decade through mid-2007. The term premium
touched negative 0.55 percent on Sept. 2, the lowest ever
according to Bloomberg data that begins in 1976.  Treasury 10-year note yields fell to an all-time low today
as concern the euro area’s debt crisis will cripple financial
institutions underpinned demand for the safest assets. A
government report Sept. 2 showed no jobs were added in August,
reinforcing concern the  U.S. economy  has slowed which may prompt
additional stimulus by the Fed.  “Treasuries are expensive, and everyone knows they are
expensive,  but given the times, they can stay expensive,” said
 George Goncalves , head of interest-rate strategy at Nomura
Holdings Inc., one of 20 primary dealers that trade directly
with the Fed. “Investors aren’t buying for yield right now. We
are further along in the deleveraging process than we were when
the crisis began and people are still willing to buy Treasuries,
which tells you that concern over credit globally remains.”  Bond Returns  U.S. government securities returned 2.8 percent in August,
the most since the depths of the financial crisis in December
2008, and have gained 8.1 percent this year according to a Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index, outperforming the 9 percent
decline in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Benchmark 10-year
yields declined 57 basis points last month, the most since a 71
basis point drop in December 2008, touching a record low of 1.97
percent on Aug. 18.  U.S. payrolls were unchanged last month after an 85,000
gain in July that was less than initially estimated, Labor
Department data showed yesterday in  Washington . The median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called for a rise of 68,000.
The  unemployment rate  was unchanged at 9.1 percent.  European Update  Finance ministers from  Germany ,  Finland  and the Netherlands
are scheduled to meet today to discuss a Finnish demand for
collateral in a bailout for  Greece . Italy’s Senate is set to
debate an austerity plan amid a strike called by the nation’s
biggest union.  Two-year notes traded at almost the record low 0.1568
percent reached on Aug. 9 after the Fed pledged to keep the fed
funds target in a zero to 0.25 range until at least mid-2013.  Bond investors have reduced their expectations for
inflation as break-even rates on Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, or TIPS, are trading at almost the lowest since
October 2010. The break-even rate, calculated from yield
differences on 10-year Treasury notes and inflation-indexed U.S.
government bonds of similar maturity, has fallen to 1.98 percent
from a high this year of 2.67 percent reached on April 11.  Minutes of the Fed’s Aug. 9 meeting released Aug. 30 showed
policy makers suggested the central bank could offer more
support for the economy through focusing on purchases of longer-
term securities.  “There is just so much uncertainty out there that the
usual rules of valuation are just not applying,” Goncalves said.
“Until there is a change in the outlook, Treasuries can stay
near these levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  