-- 
Spain, Italy, Dutch Qualify for Euro 2012 Tournament; Wales Fan Is Killed

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-07T16:23:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/england-defeats-wales-1-0-in-european-soccer-group-match-italy-qualifies.html
Defending champion  Spain , the
Netherlands and  Italy  secured berths at next year’s European
Championship as England moved closer to qualification for the
soccer tournament.  Spain routed Liechtenstein 6-0 last night to extend its
perfect Group I record, while the Netherlands remains undefeated
after beating  Finland  2-0, guaranteeing that the Dutch will
either win Group E or qualify as best runner up. Giampaolo
Pazzini scored with five minutes left as Italy beat Slovenia 1-0
to stay eight points clear in Group C. They join  Germany  and co-
hosts Ukraine and Poland as confirmed teams at the 16-nation
tournament.  The winner in each of the  nine qualifying groups , along
with the second-place team with the most points, qualify for
Euro 2012. The remaining eight second-place teams will play off
for the final four spots.  England  will advance with a draw in Montenegro on Oct. 7
after Ashley Young’s first-half goal secured a 1-0 win over
Wales. London police arrested six people after 44-year-old Wales
fan Michael John Dye died from head injuries following reports
of an assault outside Wembley Stadium before the match. The
victim and the suspects are all supporters of the visiting team,
the Metropolitan Police said in a statement.  England leads Group G with 17 points, six more than second-
place Montenegro, which has played one game fewer and hosts
Switzerland four days after facing England.  “The performance wasn’t great, but you go out to win the
game and that is what we’ve done,” Young said in comments on
the Football Association’s website. “We have to stay fit. We
have a tough away game against  Montenegro .”  Top-Ranked Team  The Netherlands, the No. 1 team in FIFA’s world rankings,
also have a six-point lead over Sweden following last night’s
win in Finland. Both teams have two games left and meet Oct. 11
in Sweden in their final qualifying match. The Dutch could lose
their last two matches and still qualify.  Croatia took the Group F lead from Euro 2004 champion
 Greece  with a 3-1 home win against Israel. Denmark beat Norway
2-0 to join its Scandinavian neighbor and Portugal on 13 points
in Group H.  France, the 2000 European champion, is one point clear of
Bosnia and Herzegovina in Group D following last night’s
scoreless draw in  Romania .  France  hosts Bosnia and Herzegovina
in the group’s final match on Oct. 11.  Four teams remain in contention to finish atop Group B
after leader Russia was held 0-0 by the Republic of Ireland and
Armenia won 4-0 in Slovakia. Three points separate the quartet,
with Russia two ahead of Ireland and Armenia and Slovakia
another point further back.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  