-- 
Erdogan Vows New Sanctions After Expelling Diplomat in Turkish-Israel Feud

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-09-07T15:35:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/erdogan-vows-new-sanctions-after-expelling-diplomat-in-turkish-israel-feud.html
Tossing out an ambassador,
suspending defense ties and boosting Turkey’s naval presence in
the eastern Mediterranean won’t be Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s last word in his most recent showdown with Israel.  Erdogan said his government will announce new steps to
punish Israel -- not long ago its strongest regional ally --
unless Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  apologizes for the
killing of nine Turks last year in an Israeli commando raid at
sea. Among the moves may be a visit by Erdogan to the  Gaza
Strip , ruled by the Islamic group Hamas.  “Because of its political aims in the region, Israel has
lost Turkey’s partnership,” the 57-year-old Turkish leader told
reporters yesterday in Ankara. “This process will be followed
by very different sanctions.”  Erdogan’s remarks -- his first since the  United Nations 
criticized both countries in a 105-page report last week on the
Israeli interception of a Turkish aid ship bound for Gaza --
escalated a feud that has been heating up gradually since 2004.  Turkey suspended military relations with Israel last week
and expelled Israel’s ambassador over Netanyahu’s refusal to
apologize. Israel says its soldiers were attacked by activists
aboard the Mavi Marmara and released video footage to support
the assertion. Passengers say Israeli troops fired first.  Turkey ‘Moved On’  “The Turkish government has moved on and made the
strategic decision to not partner with Israel,”  Ilan Berman ,
vice president of the Washington-based American Foreign Policy
Council, said in a telephone interview. “The problem with
appearing very strong and very decisive on events like this is
when things begin rolling, it’s very difficult to walk back the
dog.”  An Israeli official said the government has made numerous
attempts to find a formula to prevent the relationship with
Turkey from deteriorating further and will continue to try. The
official spoke anonymously, citing the diplomatic sensitivity of
the matter.  The U.S. also has been working to improve ties.  “We have, over many months, tried to work with our ally
Turkey and our ally Israel to strengthen and improve their
bilateral relationship,”  Victoria Nuland , a spokeswoman for the
U.S. State Department, said yesterday in a press briefing. “We
still believe that getting back to a good partnership between
them is in each of their interests, and we will continue to work
for that goal with both of them.”  Naval Patrols  Erdogan said Turkey will step up naval patrols in the broad
region of the Mediterranean where the Mavi Marmara was boarded.
He said all military ties, including defense-industry trade,
have been suspended and that diplomats in the embassies of both
countries above the second-secretary level are being sent home.  The premier is demanding compensation for the relatives of
those killed in last year’s raid and an end to Israel’s naval
embargo on Gaza, which the UN said is legal and  Turkey  maintains
is against international law.  Erdogan said Turkey will challenge Israel’s blockade of
Gaza in the  International Court of Justice  and support the
families of Turks killed in the raid if they sue Israel in
international courts.  “At this point, Turkey has taken these steps and will
decisively follow through,” Erdogan said. “In the face of the
UN decisions, Israel has acted, as always, like a spoiled boy
and indicated that it will continue with that attitude.”  Trade Sanctions  Turkey is not considering trade sanctions against Israel,
Trade Minister Zafer Caglayan said on Sept. 5. Turkey exported
about $1.5 billion of goods to Israel in the first seven months
of this year, making it the country’s 17th biggest market, he
said. Imports totaled $1.2 billion, making Turkey Israel’s
sixth-biggest export market, he said.  Turkish exports included cars, steel, wiring, construction
materials, jewelry and electrical appliances, while imports from
Israel included petroleum products, military vehicles,
chemicals, plastics, medical appliances and pharmaceuticals,
Turkey’s state-run Anatolia news agency reported.  Elbit Systems Ltd. (ESLT)  and state-owned Israel Aerospace
Industries Ltd. have been leading Israeli companies selling to
Turkey. Bank Hapoalim Ltd., Israel’s second-biggest bank by
assets, and  Oil Refineries Ltd. (ORL) , its biggest refiner, have also
been active in trade with Turkey.  Trade Agreements  Erdogan accused Israel in televised comments of breaching
international trade agreements. Israel didn’t perform
maintenance on unmanned military aircraft Turkey had purchased
from the country because of the problems between the two
countries, he said. “They are not loyal to the agreements
between us in the defense industry.”  Israel’s  Defense Ministry  didn’t immediately respond to an
e-mail seeking comment on the allegation.  Turkey’s premier said the decision on whether to visit Gaza
will be made after he arrives in  Egypt  next week. Erdogan is
scheduled to visit Egypt, Tunisia and  Libya  from Sept. 12
through Sept. 15, his press office said today on its website.
There was no mention of a Gaza visit in the statement. Erdogan
told reporters after the announcement that Turkey is still in
talks to travel to the Hamas-controlled territory.  A visit by Erdogan to Gaza would highlight  Israel ’s
continued restrictions against the seaside Palestinian enclave,
more than a year after it loosened limits on goods entering the
territory under international pressure. Access to Gaza has been
eased at its border with Egypt since the overthrow of Egyptian
President  Hosni Mubarak .  Palestinian Statehood  A trip would also coincide with Palestinian efforts to
obtain statehood recognition at the UN this month. Israel and
the U.S. oppose the Palestinian measure, saying it should only
be taken after an agreement is reached in Middle East peace
negotiations.  Israel cited security reasons for stopping the import of
products including construction materials into Gaza. Hamas and
other militant organizations have fired thousands of rockets at
Israel over the past decade.  Israel staged a three-week military offensive against Gaza
at the end of 2008 that led to the killing of at least 1,100
Palestinians and 13 Israelis. Hamas is considered a terrorist
organization by Israel, the U.S. and the European Union.  Souring Relations  Relations between Turkey and Israel have been turning
steadily sour since Erdogan condemned Israel’s March 2004
killing of the Hamas founder, Sheikh Ahmed Yassin, as a
terrorist act. Officials in Ankara received Hamas leaders after
they won the 2006 Palestinian legislative elections.  Erdogan criticized Israel’s December 2008 assault on Gaza
and left a panel discussion with Israeli President  Shimon Peres 
at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland , a month
later. The relationship has degenerated further since the Mavi
Marmara episode.  Credit-default swaps to insure five-year Israeli debt
against non-payment have risen by about 10 basis points since
Sept. 2, the day Turkey announced it would downgrade ties. The
swaps closed at 171 yesterday, according to CMA. Turkey’s
credit-default swaps closed at 244, up from 190 at the beginning
of August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 