-- 
Hess Exclusion From Iraqi Oil-License Bid ‘Unjustified,’ MP Says

-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-09-06T12:24:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/hess-exclusion-from-iraqi-oil-license-bid-unjustified-mp-says.html
Hess Corp. (HES) , the New York-based oil
company, is barred from competing in  Iraq ’s fourth licensing
round for energy contracts, Iraqi Kurdish lawmaker Bayazid Hasan
said, calling the Oil Ministry’s decision unwarranted.  “I don’t think there’s any justification for this
exclusion,” which “reflects the policy of double standards,”
Hasan said today in a phone interview from Baghdad.  Hess and Dublin-based Petroceltic International Plc signed
a production-sharing agreement in July with the Kurdish Regional
Government in northern Iraq to search for oil and natural gas at
the region’s Dinarta and Shakrok fields.  Hasan, a member of the oil and gas parliamentary committee,
said the Kurdistan Regional Government opposes the new draft
energy law approved by the central government in  Baghdad  because
the document contains “constitutional violations.” The draft
will face “criticism in Parliament unless it is modified so as
to serve everyone equally,” he said.  The new law has been under study for about five years amid
differences among the country’s major political factions,
including a dispute between the central government and the semi-
autonomous Kurds over revenue from the sale of oil produced at
Kurdish fields.  Members of the oil and gas panel in Iraq’s parliament had
asked earlier this year for a delay in the government’s next
planned exploration licensing round until after the passage of a
new energy law. Opposition politicians have criticized the
government for carrying out three oil and gas licensing rounds
since 2009 with what they said was no legal basis.  The Iraqi government, eager to boost energy exports to pay
for reconstruction, asked companies in June to begin submitting
bids for a new round of exploration licenses and aims to
disclose the results in January. Iraq holds the world’s fifth-
largest crude reserves and has signed 15 licenses for oil and
gas exploration since the toppling of former President  Saddam
Hussein  in 2003.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kadhim Ajrash at 
 kajrash@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  