-- 
Estonia Shortlists Two Experts for ECB Post

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-09-06T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/estonia-shortlists-china-economist-imf-adviser-for-ecb-role.html
Estonian central bank supervisors
shortlisted Ardo Hansson, the  World Bank ’s economist for  China ,
and Andres Sutt, an adviser at the  International Monetary Fund ,
to represent the country at the  European Central Bank .  The eight-member board will meet on Oct. 11 to elect the
successor to Governor  Andres Lipstok , whose seven-year term
expires in June, Eesti Pank, based in the capital, Tallinn, said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Finance Minister Juergen Ligi and Andres Tupits, a lawyer who worked at the ECB for seven
years, were dropped from the list.  “These people are pretty much Northern European in their
views, fiscally conservative, transparent about central
banking,” Lars Christensen, an emerging-markets economist at
Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen, said in a phone interview
yesterday. “If there ever were any worries that this won’t be a
smooth transition, I think it is going to be very fluent.”  Europe ’s governments are struggling to contain a debt
crisis that has shaken the euro. Lipstok led a central bank that
managed a currency peg during the global financial crisis and
helped Estonia adopt the euro this year.  Hansson, 53, a U.S.-born son of Estonian immigrants with a
PhD in Economics from Harvard University, supports “pro-
active” fiscal policy. He had the strongest support in the
first and second rounds of balloting, falling one vote short of
the required five-vote backing, the bank said. Sutt edged out
Ligi by five votes to three in an additional round after both
drew two votes in the second round.  ‘Ring-Fence Contagion’  After Estonia regained independence in 1991, Hansson worked
as an adviser to several prime ministers and, together with
Jeffrey Sachs of  Columbia University , was among the architects
of the Estonian kroon, replaced by the euro in January.  “The best scenario for the eurozone now is to first try to
ring-fence this possible spread of contagion, which means that
some of the countries that might be threatened would be a bit
more pro-active on fiscal policy and a bit more pro-active on
bank consolidation,” Hansson said in a phone interview from
Beijing last week.  An ideal solution would be setting up the European
Stability Mechanism “relatively smoothly,” which would help
stem the crisis, he said.  Public Finance Concern  Sutt, 43, worked in various positions at the Estonian
central bank from 1992 to 1999 and as a deputy governor from
2001 to 2009. He has the equivalent of a master’s degree in
economics from  Estonia ’s  Tartu University .  Concern about the sustainability of public finances in the
euro area, the U.S.,  Japan  and the U.K. are “understandable and
legitimate,” Sutt wrote in an opinion piece in the newspaper
Aeripaeev, published yesterday.  “In the present uncertain situation for the global
economy, one should support pragmatic solutions that have a
strong underpinning in economic theory and are politically
feasible,” he wrote.  A candidate who wins backing from five board members will
have to pass a background check by security police and be
formally confirmed by President Toomas Ilves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  