-- 
Estonia May Send Budget Cutter or China Economist to ECB Council

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-09-06T07:18:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/estonia-may-send-budget-cutter-or-china-economist-to-ecb-council.html
Estonia will probably pick Finance
Minister Juergen Ligi, who managed record austerity measures, or
Ardo Hansson, the  World Bank ’s chief economist for  China , as its
next member of the  European Central Bank  governing council.  The two are the frontrunners as the central bank’s
supervisory board meets today at 3 p.m. in the capital, Tallinn,
to narrow the field. Other candidates include Andres Sutt, an
adviser at the  International Monetary Fund , and Andres Tupits, a
lawyer who worked at the ECB for seven years.  Europe ’s governments are struggling to contain a debt
crisis that has shaken the euro, which Estonia adopted this
year. Hansson, a Harvard-educated economist, supports members of
the single currency being “pro-active” on fiscal policy. With
Ligi, the risk is that his career as a politician may affect his
decisions, according to economists.  “With Ligi at the helm, there is a risk that central bank
decisions will become part of day-to-day party-political
football,” said Fredrik Erixon, head of the European Centre for
International Political Economy in Brussels. “Ligi must be
prepared to take decisions that go against the wishes of his
current boss and colleagues. That’s a tall order for anyone.”  Ligi and Hansson are the favorites, said analysts including
Raul Eamets, a professor of economics at Tartu University.  The successor to central bank Governor  Andres Lipstok , who
steps down in mid-2012, will be confirmed by Estonian President
Toomas Ilves after a background check. A candidate failing to
gather at least five votes in the eight-member panel today would
force another board meeting within a month.  Austerity Measures  Ligi, 52, was named Europe’s finance minister of the year
in January by The Banker magazine after he implemented austerity
measures equal to 9 percent of economic output in 2009 to remain
on course to adopt the euro. He has served as a lawmaker and
defense minister since 1995 and has degrees equivalent to
master’s in geography and international economics.  “The main task of the central bank at any time is to
guarantee  price stability ,” he said of the ECB in an e-mailed
response to questions from Bloomberg. “Inflation should remain
under control in the coming years so as not to harm Europe’s
competitiveness and maintain trust in the euro.”  Hansson, 53, is a U.S.-born son of Estonian immigrants with
a PhD in Economics from  Harvard University . After Estonia
regained independence in 1991, he worked as an adviser to
several prime ministers and, together with  Jeffrey Sachs  of
 Columbia University , was among the architects of the Estonian
kroon, replaced by the euro in January.  ‘Evil Oracle’  An advocate of a frugal lifestyle, Hansson became known to
the public as the “evil oracle’” for predicting Estonia’s first
post-independence recession and the bursting of a stock-market
bubble in 1997.  Euro region members can avoid the possible spread of the
debt crisis by being more “pro-active” on fiscal policy and
encouraging bank consolidation, Hansson said in a phone
interview from Beijing last week, echoing comments from Ligi. He
sees himself and Ligi as similar candidates.  “I don’t think there is going to be too much difference in
the kind of basic instincts or policy principles,” Hansson
said. The board “will just be faced with the tradeoffs of the
experiences and the skills.”  Lipstok, whose seven-year term ends June 6, 2012, became a
voting member of the ECB council when Estonia adopted the euro
on Jan. 1. He can’t be re-elected. As of Sept. 2, no candidate
had sufficient support to win outright, supervisory board
Chairman Jaan Mannik said by phone from  Sweden  that day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  