-- 
EU Edges Closer to Naked Short-Selling Rules, Lawmaker Says

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-09-06T15:19:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/eu-edges-closer-to-naked-short-selling-rules-lawmaker-says.html
European Union governments and
lawmakers are moving closer to a deal on rules governing naked
short-selling of equities as part of talks on a wider draft law
on trading practices, a member of the region’s legislature said.  Poland , which holds the rotating presidency of the EU, and
lawmakers from the  European Parliament  are discussing requiring
traders to locate, and have a “reasonable expectation” of
obtaining, stocks they agree to sell short,Syed Kamall, a U.K.
lawmaker who represents  London  in the parliament, said
in a telephone interview.  “I think we are moving closer to a solution on naked
short-selling of stocks that I hope will not be too
restrictive,” Kamall said. An agreement “is going to come down
to what ‘reasonable expectation’ means.” The group is also
“still debating what rules to place on intraday” trading
positions, he said.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and a majority in the
parliament have called for the EU to ban naked credit-default
swaps on sovereign debt and introduce curbs on some naked short
selling because of concerns that such activities have fueled the
euro zone’s debt crisis. Germany already has restrictions on
using swaps to bet on sovereign defaults, and on naked short
selling of  government bonds  and stocks.  ‘Big Impasse’  The European commission proposed legislation on short
selling and CDS in September 2010. The plans must be agreed to
by the governments of each country in the 27-nation region and
the parliament before being implemented. The two sides
held a negotiation meeting today. The next meeting has been
scheduled for Sept. 20.  The “big impasse” remains what curbs should be placed
on the trading of naked CDS on sovereign debt, Kamall said.  A majority in the parliament wants either a European ban
or to create the legal means for such a ban to be introduced in
the future, Kamall said. A proposal from governments for nations
to be allowed to voluntarily “opt in” to bans is “much more
reasonable,” he said.  The European commission has proposed that position limits
could be placed on such trades, and that these limits could vary
between different governments bonds.  Kamall said he’s concerned such position limits “may
become a verdict on how creditworthy a nation is, or how at risk
they are of defaulting, and the market will use that as a sort
of judgment.” This “could add more doubt and uncertainty to
already distressed European sovereign debt markets,” he said.  Short sellers borrow assets and sell them, betting the
price will fall, buying them later and pocketing the difference.
Naked short selling is when traders short shares without ever
actually taking possession of them.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  