-- 
EU High-Frequency Trades, Silvercorp, U.K. Banks: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-09-06T12:17:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/eu-high-frequency-trades-silvercorp-indonesia-wto-compliance.html
High-frequency trading firms may
face greater scrutiny from market regulators as part of plans
drawn up by the European Union to reduce excessive risk taking.  The EU is planning to impose detailed requirements on high-
frequency trading, according to a European Commission document
obtained by Bloomberg News. The requirements will include
safeguards to prevent high-frequency trades from “overloading
the systems of trading venues,” generating “erroneous orders”
or “otherwise malfunctioning” in a way that may create a
disorderly market, according to the document.  Certain regulatory and supervisory measures were identified
as necessary to “deal with the potential threats for the
orderly functioning of markets arising from algorithmic and
high-frequency trading,” the document said.  The measures are part of a wider overhaul by the
commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm, of trading rules
for financial markets following the 2008 contraction in the
credit markets that followed the collapse of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  The commission has also sought to curb naked
short-selling and trading in non-standardized derivatives.  Reuters also reported the proposed rule Sept. 2.  Compliance Policy  Investors May Seek Fast U.K. Bank Overhaul After Commission  Investors may want British banks to implement proposals
from the government-appointed Independent Commission on Banking
as soon as possible or risk a further loss of confidence.  People familiar with the discussions said Sept. 1 that the
banks will have four years or more to overhaul their operations
after the commission’s report is published on Sept. 12. It’s
likely to force lenders to boost capital, introduce plans for an
orderly bankruptcy and erect firebreaks around consumer units to
protect taxpayers from further  bank failures , according to an
 interim report  published in April.  Investors are forcing Europe’s banks to adopt new rules on
capital laid out by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
as soon as possible, even though they don’t become mandatory
until 2019, according to Shailesh Raikundlia, a banking analyst
at MF Global Ltd. in  London .  The government backs the idea of firewalls, or so-called
ring-fencing, and other proposals from the commission,
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said in June.  Bank lobbyists and analysts have warned during the past two
weeks that pushing ahead with the ICB proposals would damage the
U.K.’s faltering economic recovery.  John Cridland , director general of the Confederation of
British Industry, said in a BBC interview this week that it
would be “barking mad” to implement such plans at the moment
given the U.K.’s faltering economic recovery.  King’s New Powers Mean BOE Needs Better Governance, Darling Says  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  has too much
individual power and a board of directors should be put in place
to improve governance of the central bank, former  Chancellor of
the Exchequer  Alistair Darling said.  Darling said his efforts to tackle the financial crisis in
late 2007 had been hampered by disagreements with King, who he
considered not reappointing for a second term. The former
chancellor was speaking Sept. 3 on BBC 1 television’s “Andrew
Marr Show” before the publication this week of his book, “ Back
from the Brink .”  Prime Minister David Cameron’s government, which ousted
Darling’s Labour Party from power last year, is scrapping the
current system of bank regulation. The plan will create a
Financial Policy Committee within the central bank chaired by
King, entrenching his responsibility for financial stability as
well as monetary policy.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Silvercorp Says Anonymous Allegation of Fraud Is False  Silvercorp Metals Inc. (SVM) , a miner of silver in  China , said an
allegation of accounting fraud contained in an anonymous letter
addressed to Canadian regulators is false.  The letter circulated by e-mail alleges Silvercorp reported
a profit in calendar 2010 to the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission while posting a loss to regulators in China,
Vancouver-based Silvercorp said in a statement. The letter was
addressed to the Ontario Securities Commission, the company’s
auditors and various media outlets, Silvercorp said.  Allegations of fraud against  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , a Hong
Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based tree-farm operator, have
heightened investors’ concern about other North America-based
companies with operations in China, the world’s most populous
country. Sino-Forest’s Canadian shares have plunged 67 percent
since short seller Carson Block’s Muddy Waters LLC published a
June 2 report alleging that the company overstated its timber
holdings. Sino-Forest has denied the allegations.  The allegations against Silvercorp are “entirely bogus,”
Lorne Waldman, a Silvercorp spokesman, said Sept. 2 in a
telephone interview. Waldman denied the mining company was
created in a so-called reverse takeover. He said Silvercorp’s
auditor is Ernst & Young LLP, the same firm that audited Sino-
Forest’s financial statements.  Silvercorp also said that the anonymous author said his
firm held a short position in the company’s shares and intended
to make his concerns known through Internet postings. The
company cited Sept. 2 a “dramatic” increase in the short
position of its shares. Silvercorp said it hasn’t confirmed
whether the letter actually was sent to the OSC or any other
organization.  Indonesia Loses Bulk of WTO Case on U.S. Clove-Cigarette Ban  While a U.S. ban on clove cigarettes that’s designed to
prevent teenagers from starting to smoke is discriminatory,
Indonesia failed to prove that it’s unnecessary,  World Trade
Organization  judges said.  Indonesia argued that U.S. tobacco legislation, signed by
President Barack Obama in June 2009, breaks global trade rules
because it outlaws cloves and not the mint used to make menthol
cigarettes. Indonesia, the world’s largest producer of clove
cigarettes, or kreteks, made by companies such as PT Gudang
Garam, has exports valued at $500 million a year, a fifth of
which go to the U.S.  Menthol-flavored cigarettes produced by U.S. manufacturers
such as  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s Philip Morris USA and  Lorillard Inc. (LO) 
were exempted as part of a 2008 compromise by lawmakers that led
Altria to endorse the legislation. Menthol cigarettes, the most
popular flavor, constitute 20 percent of the U.S. market,
according to Federal Trade Commission  data .  Studies show that 17-year-olds are three times more likely
to use flavored cigarettes than people over 25, according to the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration.  “The panel’s conclusion was based, in part, on its finding
that there is extensive scientific evidence supporting the
conclusion that banning clove and other flavored cigarettes
could contribute to reducing youth smoking,” the judges said on
the trade arbiter’s website.  No one was available at Indonesia’s mission in Geneva to
comment on the ruling.  Lloyds Tops List for Consumer Complaints on U.K. Bank Market  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s biggest mortgage
lender, received more consumer complaints than any other banking
group in the first half of 2011, according to the U.K.  Financial
Ombudsman Service .  Lloyds was the subject of 19,569 complaints between Jan. 1
and June 30, 2011, the ombudsman said in a statement today.
Total complaints rose 54 percent to 149,925 during the first six
months of this year, according to the ombudsman service report.  The  British Bankers’ Association , an industry group, lost a
court challenge in April to the FSA’s payment protection
insurance guidelines. The improper sales of PPI are “likely to
lead to a redress of 9 billion” pounds ($14 billion) Hector
Sants, chief executive of the FSA, said in a speech in London in
June.  The insurance covers payments on credit cards and mortgages
in case of illness or unemployment. Customers who bought PPI
rarely compared prices and terms or switched providers, and
usually weren’t aware they could buy it from a firm other than
their lender, the U.K.’s Competition Commission has said.  Ed Petter, a spokesman for Lloyds in London, couldn’t be
immediately reached for comment.  Courts  Madoff Victims Seek ‘Rehearing’ on Fictional Profit Recovery  Investors in Bernard Madoff’s former firm asked a U.S.
appeals court to review its ruling barring them from recovering
money lost in the  Ponzi scheme .  A federal appeals court in  New York  said Aug. 16 that the
liquidator of the con man’s firm can ignore fictitious profits
on money Madoff never invested when calculating losses and who
is entitled to be repaid. The investors, in a Sept. 3 filing,
asked for a “rehearing” by the full court, saying the Second
Circuit Court of Appeals ruled differently in an earlier case.  In a 2004 case involving New Times Securities Services
Inc., the court “accepted the position” that customers who
lose money in a Ponzi scheme are entitled to insurance payments
based on their account statements, the investors said in the
filing.  Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Madoff trustee Irving
Picard, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment
on the U.S. Labor Day holiday.  Madoff, 73, is in a federal prison in North Carolina,
serving a 150-year sentence for the fraud.  The case is In re Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
LLC, 10-2378, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
(Manhattan).  Interviews/Speeches  Rochdale’s Bove Says Mortgage Suits ‘Very Negative’ for Banks  Richard Bove, an analyst at Rochdale Securities, talked
about the possibility of the Federal Housing Finance Agency
suing more than a dozen large banks for misrepresenting the
quality of mortgage securities sold at the height of the housing
bubble and the impact punitive payments may have on the industry
and economy.  Bove, who spoke with Adam Johnson, Jon Erlichman and
Dominic Chu on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness with Margaret
Brennan,” also discussed the outlook for  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   Compass Point’s Jason Stewart Discusses REITs, SEC  Jason Stewart, director of research with  Compass Point
Research & Trading , discussed real estate investment trusts as
the Security Exchange Commission seeks more information about
leveraging of REITs. Stewart talked with Bloomberg’s Pimm Fox
and Courtney Donohoe on Bloomberg Radio’s “Taking Stock.”  For the audio, click here.  ECB Nowotny Says European Banks Mostly ‘Adequately’ Capitalized  European Central Bank Governing Council member Ewald
Nowotny said that the European Union stress test has shown that
the European banking system is mostly “adequately” capitalized
and that only individual areas have immediate need for reform.  In the longer, term Basel III calls for an increase of bank
capital globally, Nowotny told reporters in Alpbach, Austria.  Golub Says Government Should Stay Out of Businesses’ Way  Harvey Golub , former chairman of  American International
Group Inc. (AIG)  and former chairman of  American Express Co. (AXP) , talked
about U.S. tax policy and the need for government to “get out
of the way” of businesses.  Golub spoke with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In
the Loop.”  For the video, click here.  U.K. SFO Will Look for Tax Deductions for Bribes, Alderman Says  The U.K. Serious Fraud Office is asking companies to
disclose portions of their tax calculations as part of its
enforcement of the country’s bribery act.  The SFO, which prosecutes white-collar crime, will look at
the tax data to see if companies are claiming deductions for
bribes,  Richard Alderman , the agency’s director, said according
to a copy of a speech prepared for an economic crime seminar at
Cambridge University Sept. 5.  “What this means is that companies ought to ensure that in
claiming tax deductions, they take out any amounts that have
been paid by way of bribes,” he said. “If they fail to do this
then they are claiming a deduction in respect of something that
is specifically prohibited by Parliament as a deduction.”  Britain’s first prosecution using its new Bribery Act,
considered by some lawyers to be the world’s strictest anti-
corruption law, will be against a court clerk accused of taking
a 500-pound ($814) bribe, the U.K.’s Crown Prosecution Service
said last week.  Alderman said he didn’t agree with critics who said the act
would have no effect for years. “Much has already happened,”
he said. “Very many organizations have spent time already in
building up their anti-corruption culture.”  Skinner Says U.K. Bank Recommendations Should Be Delayed  Chris Skinner, chairman and founder of the  Financial
Services Club , talked about the U.K. government-appointed
 Independent Commission on Banking ’s recommendations to prevent
another financial crisis.  He spoke with Linzie Janis on Bloomberg Television’s
“Countdown.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Finance Staff to Require Advance Approval, Irish Times Reports  The Irish Central Bank has issued a list of 42 senior
positions in the finance industry where appointments require
advance approval before the nominees can take up the posts, the
Irish Times reported. The list encompasses a wide range of
positions, from chief executive officers and directors to
various investment-related jobs, the Irish Times said.  The list is part of the regulations known as the Standards
of Fitness and Probity under Ireland’s Central Bank Reform Act
of 2010, according to a  statement  on the bank’s website.  To be assigned to a listed position, a candidate must show
the ability to “act honestly, ethically, and with integrity and
in a fiscally sound manner,” the central bank said in the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 