-- 
EU Sugar Refiners Want Bloc to Abolish a Duty on Sugar Imports

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-09-06T17:00:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/eu-sugar-refiners-want-bloc-to-abolish-a-duty-on-sugar-imports.html
The European Union should abolish a
98 euros ($137) a metric ton duty on sugar imports from a group
of countries including Brazil and Australia to ensure refiners
have “fair access” to raw materials, an industry group said.  The bloc suspended the so-called CXL duty from December
2010 to August this year as it would prohibit the imports under
quotas, European Commission spokesman Roger Waite said in April.
The EU allowed 500,000 tons of duty-free imports earlier this
year, to deal with a shortage of sugar.  “It is essential that European cane sugar refiners have
fair access to sufficient raw sugar at competitive prices,”
Joao Pereira, chairman of the European Sugar Refiners’
Association, wrote in an e-mailed statement today. “ESRA urges
the Commission to permanently abolish the CXL sugar import
duty.”  Sugar plants in the continent are operating “well below”
capacity due to a shortage of raw materials at a time when
refineries have expanded, according to the statement. The ESRA,
which represents 19 refiners in Europe, said the situation “is
economically crippling for any sugar processor.”  Supplies of raw sugar in the EU fell short of demand after
the price in the world market became more advantageous than the
price in the bloc, leading countries that usually export the
sweetener to the 27-member states to ship elsewhere.  “Given today’s lower EU institutional prices and higher
world prices, only the removal of the duty will ensure
predictable and economically viable access to raw cane sugar,”
Pereira said in the statement.  Preferential Access  A group of least developed countries have preferential
access to the EU market under the Everything But Arms, or EBA,
initiative, which allows a number of countries to export certain
amounts of duty-free sugar to the EU. Some nations from the
African, Pacific and Caribbean, or APC, group of states also
have preferential access under the Economic Partnership
Agreement, known as EPA.  Imports from these nations are forecast to reach 1.65
million tons in the 2010-11 season, “far short of the 2.8
million tons the Commission had assumed,” ESRA said. Imports in
the 2011-12 season starting Oct. 1 are expected to be 1.7
million tons, down from an original estimate of 3.3 million
tons, it said.  “Legal restrictions on supply put cane sugar refiners in a
weak and unfair bargaining position when bidding for scarcely
available amounts of raw sugar,” ESRA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 