-- 
Euro Trades Near Two-Month Low Versus Dollar Before German Industrial Data

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-09-06T23:48:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/euro-trades-near-two-month-low-versus-dollar-before-german-output-data.html
The euro was 0.2 percent from the
lowest level in almost two months against the dollar before a
German report that may show industrial production grew at the
slowest pace in three years.  The 17-nation currency held a six-day slump against the
greenback before the  European Central Bank  announces its
decision on policy rates tomorrow. The yen was within 0.1
percent of a one-month low against the dollar as the imposition
by  Switzerland ’s central bank of a ceiling on the franc’s
 exchange rate  spurred speculation Japan will follow the European
nation in weakening its currency.  “Sentiment is very poor on the euro,” said  Sean Callow , a
senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney,
 Australia ’s second-largest lender. “You’ve also got the
possibility that the ECB becomes more dovish on Thursday.”  The euro traded at $1.4006 as of 8:03 a.m. in  Tokyo  from
$1.3998 in New York yesterday when it slid to $1.3972, the
lowest since July 13. The yen was at 77.63 per dollar from 77.66
yesterday, when it retreated to 77.73, a level unseen since Aug.
9. The euro was little changed at 108.70 yen.  Industrial production in  Germany ,  Europe ’s biggest economy,
increased 0.5 percent in July from the previous month, according
to the median of economist estimates in a Bloomberg survey
before today’s release. While it’s an improvement from a 1.1
percent drop in June, it’s the smallest gain since February
2008.  Rate Outlook  “One of the factors weighing on the euro more so now than
a few months ago is the deterioration in the economic outlook,”
Emma Lawson, a Sydney-based currency strategist at National
Australia Bank Ltd., wrote in a report today. “A slower German
economy has negative implications for euro area debt markets, as
well as global growth.”  While all 57 economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect the
ECB to leave its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 1.5
percent at its policy meeting tomorrow, traders bet it will cut
rates by 30 basis points over the next 12 months, according to a
Credit Suisse Group AG index based on swaps.  The yen has fallen 2.5 percent for the past 12 months, the
fourth-worst performer among the 10 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  The  Swiss National Bank  yesterday said “it will no longer
tolerate a euro-franc exchange rate below the minimum rate of
1.20 francs” and that it’s “aiming for a substantial and
sustained weakening of the franc.” Following the announcement,
the franc dropped as much as 9.9 percent against the euro, a
record decline.  The Bank of  Japan  will conclude a two-day policy meeting
today.  “Japan would prefer for now to be tactical, to retain the
element of surprise, leave the markets guessing as to when
they’re likely to intervene again,” said Westpac’s Callow. “I
think their next step is for another round of intervention when
they think the conditions are ripe for success.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  