-- 
Levene’s NBNK Said to Discuss Buying National Australia Bank’s U.K. Units

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-09-06T15:54:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/levene-s-nbnk-halts-share-trading-said-to-be-in-talks-with-nab.html
NBNK Investments Plc (NBNK) , the  investment
company  founded by Lloyd’s of London Chairman  Peter Levene , is
in talks to acquire  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) ’s U.K. units,
according to a person familiar with the talks. Trading in NBNK
shares was suspended.  London-based NBNK wants to acquire Clydesdale and  Yorkshire 
banks as a first step to bidding for more than 630 branches from
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , said the person, who declined to be
identified because the discussions are private. The talks are in
an early stage and may not succeed, the person said.  NBNK raised 50 million pounds ($80 million) in August 2010
to make acquisitions and form a “substantial” consumer bank
with a 4 to 6 percent share of the British banking market.
National Australia has more than 300 retail branches in the U.K.
with about 2.7 million customers at Clydesdale and Yorkshire
banks, according to its  website .  NBNK’s shares will be suspended on London’s Alternative
Investment Market until documents relating to acquisition talks
are published, NBNK said in a statement yesterday. It did not
name the company it was talking to.  The potential acquisition would be a so-called reverse
takeover, the company said in the statement. “There can be no
certainty that a transaction will be forthcoming.”  Lloyds gained 0.3 percent to 30.75 pence at the close in
London, making it the second-best performer in the five-member
 FTSE 350 Banks Index. (F3BANK)   ‘Only Natural’  Melbourne-based National Australia, the best performing
stock among the nation’s so-called four-pillar lenders, said
last month when it reported earnings for the quarter ended June
30 that its U.K. banking businesses “coped well with the slow
credit environment.”  The ratio of late and impaired loans in the U.K. dropped to
3.27 percent at June 30 from 3.44 percent at March 31, the bank
said.  An NBNK spokesman declined to comment beyond the statement.
National Australia referred to comments previously made by
Cameron Clyne, the bank’s chief executive officer.  “It is also only natural that we would look at other
options” for its U.K. units, he said. “This would however, be
against strict financial criteria with our key focus to generate
value for our shareholders.” The Financial Times reported the
story earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in  London  at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  