-- 
Ex-News Corp. Lawyer Saw Dossier on Hacking Victims’ Lawyers

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-06T17:05:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/ex-news-corp-lawyer-saw-dossier-on-hacking-victims-lawyers-1-.html
A former lawyer for  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
U.K. unit told British lawmakers he saw an internal dossier of
personal information about phone-hacking victims’ lawyers
prepared for the company by a “freelance journalist.”  Tom Crone, the lawyer for News Corp.’s News of the World
tabloid until July, told a Parliamentary committee in London
today that he is barred from saying who at the paper requested
the data due to an ongoing police investigation.  “I saw one thing in relation to two of the lawyers,”
Crone said. “It involves their private lives.” Using private
detectives for surveillance is a common practice for lawyers,
Crone said in response to a related question from the committee.  Mark Lewis , a lawyer for the family of murdered schoolgirl
Milly Dowler and dozens of other phone-hacking victims, said
yesterday that he had seen the dossier and that its contents
suggested he’d been followed. Revelations that Dowler’s voice
mails were intercepted prompted News Corp. to shutter the News
of the World and withdraw a 7.8 billion-pound ($12.4 billion)
takeover bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   News Corp.’s News International unit said in a statement on
Sept. 3 that no “current” officials at the company were
involved in having the civil claimants’ lawyers followed while
the company defended dozens of claims over the hacking of
celebrities’ mobile phones.  “This could be very damaging,” Niri Shan, the head of
media law at Taylor Wessing LLP in London, said in an interview.
“It begs the question -- why did they do it and who on earth
thought it was a good idea, given the allegations against
them?”  Renewed Probe  A spokesman for the Metropolitan Police said today that
it’s legal to hire a private investigator to follow someone. He
declined to comment on Crone’s statement.  Civil lawsuits filed by Lewis and other lawyers for public
figures unearthed evidence of News of the World’s phone-hacking
activities and forced the police to reopen their investigation
of the practice. At least 15 people have been arrested since
January, including former editors and reporters.  Lewis, with Taylor Hampton Solicitors Ltd. in  London , said
News International’s dossier about him contained some inaccurate
information, including a claim that he was dying.  The committee also published a written statement by London
 law firm  BCL Burton Copeland, which worked for News
International when the scandal erupted in 2006 and 2007. The
firm, which parted ways with the company this year, said its
role was limited to providing documents to the police.  BCL Letter  “BCL was not instructed to carry out an investigation into
phone hacking at the News of the World,” the law firm said in
the letter.  Burton Copeland is the second law firm to challenge claims
they conducted internal investigations of phone hacking after
lawmakers asked News International to explain why it failed to
uncover the extent of the practice.  Harbottle & Lewis LLP, which worked for News International
in a 2007 employment case related to hacking, said in earlier
written statements to the committee that News Corp. Chairman
 Rupert Murdoch  was “confused or misinformed” when he testified
about the firm’s actions to British lawmakers.  Harbottle & Lewis’s examination was limited to reviewing e-
mails in relation to an employment lawsuit filed by  Clive
Goodman , a reporter convicted for hacking into voice mails, Jon
Chapman, News International’s former head of legal affairs, told
lawmakers.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  