-- 
Fed Directors Had ‘Increased Uncertainty’ Before FOMC Meeting

-- B y   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a
-- 
2011-09-06T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/fed-directors-had-increased-uncertainty-before-fomc-meeting.html
Many directors of regional Federal
Reserve banks were increasingly unsure about the strength of the
recovery before policy makers expanded their pledge to maintain
near-zero interest rates, meeting minutes showed.  “Many noted increased uncertainty about the likely pace of
improvement in the economy over coming quarters,” according to
minutes of the Fed Board of Governors’ Aug. 8 closed-door
meeting, released in  Washington  today. Directors saw “weak”
growth in recent months, with some pointing to “downside risks
to the outlook.” The governors were considering directors’
views from late July and early August.  That session occurred one day before the Fed, in a separate
Aug. 9 meeting, pledged to hold its benchmark interest rate at a
record low at least through mid-2013 to help invigorate the
recovery and lower unemployment.  “Most directors observed that  consumer spending  and
sentiment had weakened, particularly among middle- to low-income
consumers,” the report said. “Unemployment was elevated and
employment prospects remained limited.”  The directors also said that the “still-depressed”
housing market, as well as financial turmoil from  Europe ’s debt
crisis and U.S. fiscal matters, were weighing on the recovery.  Given the economic weakness, the Fed decided to leave
unchanged 0.75 percent  interest rate  that banks would pay to
draw emergency, short-term loans from the central bank.  The rate has been at that level since February 2010.
Directors at 10 regional banks preferred no change, while two
banks,  Kansas City  and Dallas, had recommended raising the rate
to 1 percent, the same votes as in prior meetings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  