-- 
Rain Delays Start of Play at U.S. Open as Forecast Calls for Soggy Day

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-06T16:03:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/federer-djokovic-advance-at-u-s-open.html
Rain delayed the start of today’s
play at the  U.S. Open  and is forecast in the New York City area
for much of the day, with four men’s fourth-round matches and
two women’s quarterfinals scheduled.  “The current forecast calls for showers to continue for
the next few hours followed by a period of dryness, when we hope
to begin match play,” tournament organizers said in a statement
on the event’s website.  Play was scheduled to begin at 11 a.m. with American Donald
Young taking on  Andy Murray , the No. 4 seed from Britain, in
Arthur Ashe Stadium at the National Tennis Center in New York.  Rafael Nadal of Spain continues the defense of his U.S.
Open title with the next match in Ashe Stadium. The No. 2 seed
is set to face Gilles Muller of Luxembourg, while  John Isner ,
the American No. 28 seed, is scheduled to play  Gilles Simon , the
No. 12 seed from  France , in Louis Armstrong Stadium this
afternoon.  Andy Roddick , the 21st-seeded American who won the U.S.
Open in 2003, is scheduled to play David Ferrer, the No. 5 seed
from Spain, tonight in Ashe Stadium for a spot in the
quarterfinals.  An American man hasn’t reached the quarterfinals since 2008.  The women’s draw already has reached that round, with
Flavia Pennetta, the No. 26 seed from  Italy , scheduled to take
on German Angelique Kerber, and Vera Zvonareva, the No. 2 seed
from  Russia , set to face Samantha Stosur, the No. 9 seed from
 Australia .  Rain Forecast  There is a 75 percent chance of rain through the 1 p.m.
hour, before a possible dry spell in the next couple of hours,
according to  Weather.com . The forecast increases to a 100
percent chance of rain at 7 p.m., when the evening matches are
scheduled to begin.  Yesterday during the tennis season’s final Grand Slam event,
 Caroline Wozniacki  fought back from a set down to beat former
champion Svetlana Kuznetsova, while  Roger Federer ,  Novak Djokovic  and  Serena Williams  also moved into the quarterfinals.  Top-seeded Wozniacki won 12 of the last 14 games to pull
out a 6-7 (6-8), 7-5, 6-1 victory last night. The Dane trailed
4-1 in the second set before mounting her comeback at Arthur
Ashe Stadium.  Wozniacki’s 3-hour, 2-minute win prevented Federer from
starting play until 11:50 p.m. in  New York , the latest start
time for a men’s match in tournament history. Federer walked off
the court at 1:12 a.m. after a 6-1, 6-2, 6-0 fourth-round win
over Juan Monaco of Argentina.  Long Wait  “Waiting so long, it’s very important to get off to a
great start,” Federer said in an interview with Australia’s Fox
Sports. “I really tried to play aggressive and it all worked
out until the very end. I never had to change my game plan.”  The third-seeded Swiss, a five-time champion at the
season’s final Grand Slam tournament, next faces 11th-seeded Jo- Wilfried Tsonga of France for a spot in the semifinals. Tsonga
ousted No. 8 Mardy Fish, the highest-seeded American in the
men’s draw, with a 6-4, 6-7 (5-7), 3-6, 6-4, 6-2 victory.  Federer beat Tsonga in their first two matches this year
and the Frenchman prevailed in their next two, in the round of
16 at the Rogers Cup in  Montreal  last month and in the
quarterfinals of Wimbledon in June.  “I’ve really had some good matches with him,” Federer
said. “Wimbledon was a tough one to lose, so I’m happy I get a
chance to play him again.”  Williams, a three-time U.S. Open champion seeded 28th after
two injury-marred years, won 6-3, 6-4 over 16th-seeded Ana Ivanovic of Serbia.  Top Seed  Djokovic, the men’s No. 1 seed, fought off four set points
in a tiebreaker en route to a 7-6 (16-14), 6-4, 6-2 win against
No. 22 Alexandr Dolgopolov from Ukraine.  While players dealt with winds that gusted up to 24 mph (39
kph) on Day 8, rain wasn’t a factor even though thunderstorms
were in the forecast.  Wozniacki kept alive her hopes for a first Grand Slam title
by rallying past No. 15 Kuznetsova, a Russian who won the 2004
U.S. Open and 2009 French Open. She also beat Kuznetsova in
three sets in the fourth round of the 2009 U.S. Open.  “It definitely gives you confidence to pull this match
out,” Wozniacki said at a news conference. “I could have been
sitting here and been out already. I’m very proud of what I’ve
achieved.”  Unforced Errors  Wozniacki finished with 26 unforced errors to 78 for
Kuznetsova and advances to play 10th-seeded  Andrea Petkovic  of
 Germany , who won in straight sets over Carla Suarez Navarro of
 Spain . Williams’s next opponent is No. 17 Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova of Russia, who upset the women’s seventh seed,
Francesca Schiavone of Italy, 5-7, 6-3, 6-4.  Djokovic will face fellow Serb Janko Tipsarevic, the 20th
seed who won in four sets against Juan Carlos Ferrero of Spain.  “It’s a strange feeling,” Djokovic said of playing
Tipsarevic. “You kind of forget about friendship and put that
aside. We never played in a Grand Slam. We never played in a
best-of-five against each other, so it’s going to be a first-
time experience for both of us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson at the National Tennis Center at   mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski at the National Tennis Center at 
8797 or  matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster in New York at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  