-- 
Northrop May Feel Squeeze of Postal Service Cost Cuts

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-09-06T15:56:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/fedex-may-feel-squeeze-of-postal-service-cuts.html
(Corrects mail volume carried by FedEx in 11th paragraph.)  The U.S.  Postal Service , which
spends about $15 billion a year on products and services, is
pressing its more than 20,000 suppliers for $1 billion a year in
cost cuts as it faces possible insolvency as soon as Sept. 30.  Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe on Sept. 15 is scheduled
to announce a plan to eliminate mail processing facilities and
cut transportation and equipment costs. Donahoe is slated to
testify today before the Senate  Homeland Security  and
Governmental Affairs Committee, which is probing proposals to
prevent a postal shutdown.  “It’s becoming more competitive to do work for us and it’s
going to have to be done at slimmer margins from a standpoint of
our supplier base,” Chief Financial Officer Joseph Corbett said
in an interview. Corbett said he wants to cut at least $1
billion a year from supplier spending.  The cost-cutting has implications for many of the largest
Postal Service contractors, said David Hendel, a Husch Blackwell
LLP partner who specializes in postal contracting. He compiles a
list of top service contractors from documents obtained through
the Freedom of Information Act.  Companies at risk of losing postal revenue range from
Northrop Grumman Corp. and Siemens AG, which supply sorting
equipment including barcode readers; to  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , the largest
contractor; to closely held trucking company Pat Salmon & Sons,
which doesn’t list any business line on its website other than
hauling mail.  ‘Stark Reality’  The Postal Service’s mail volume has declined 20 percent
since peaking at 213 billion pieces in 2006. It has said it may
lose $9 billion in the fiscal year ending Sept. 30 and run out
of money by that date to make all payments required by law.  The service has asked Congress to let it delay a $5.5
billion payment for future retiree health benefits and shift
what it says are overpayments to federal pension funds to cover
that payment. It wants to end Saturday mail delivery, cut
220,000 jobs by 2015 and close 3,700 post offices.  Corbett is continuing an initiative he started after
becoming financial chief in 2009 by sending a letter to
suppliers explaining the “stark reality” of postal finances
and asking for “significant price reductions on both existing
and future work.”  The service is bidding contracts for services from
transportation to custodial work, renegotiating existing
contracts “wherever it makes good business sense,” simplifying
its requirements to suppliers and lowering use of consumable
products, Douglas Glair, the service’s manager of supply chain
management strategies, said in an e-mail.  FedEx Tops List  FedEx, which operates the world’s largest cargo airline, is
the largest Postal Service supplier, receiving $1.4 billion in
the 2010 fiscal year, according to Hendel’s  list . Hendel has
compiled the list annually since 2001.  FedEx’s postal revenue is more than twice the $495 million
of No. 2  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) , according to the list. Most of
FedEx’s postal revenue comes from a seven-year, $1 billion-a-
year contract to fly about 4 million pounds of mail per day
until 2013, an agreement the service negotiated “from a
position of extreme weakness,” Hendel said.  FedEx’s mail volume will decrease after the contract runs
out as the service moves more mail on the ground, Corbett said.
The service will continue to use FedEx to transport priority
mail and some first-class mail, he said.  FedEx receives about 3.5 percent of its revenue from the
Postal Service, based on Hendel’s listed amount as a percentage
of the company’s last-reported annual revenue. The company,
based in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , declined to comment on whether it’s
under Postal Service pressure to cut costs.  “FedEx values its alliance relationship with USPS, both as
a supplier and a customer,” Maury Donahue, a FedEx spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail.  One-Way Pay  From 2009 to 2010, the service cut transportation expenses
$148 million, or 2.5 percent, and non-transportation supplier
expenses by $60 million to $9.2 billion, or 12 percent of its
operating expenses, according to a regulatory  filing .  In a 2009 letter from transportation contract managers to
trucking suppliers, the service proposed rate reductions, a
request it called “extreme” while also saying contracts
without rate reductions may not be renewed.  The Postal Service is asking trucking suppliers that have
to make round-trips to haul mail to be paid for only the half
the journey when the truck is full of mail, rather than for
round-trip mileage, Hendel said. “If the contractor will not
agree to this, the Postal Service is threatening to terminate
their contract,” he said.  Equipment Freeze  In a  plan  the service circulated to lawmakers in August, it
said it wants to cut its more than 500 mail processing
facilities down to fewer than 200. It didn’t say how much money
it expects to save.  Among other things, the service “will not be buying mail
processing equipment, period,” Sue Brennan, a Postal Service
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Munich-based  Siemens AG (SIE) , the service’s fifth largest
supplier in its 2010 fiscal year with $135 million in revenue
according to Hendel’s data, is taking notice.  “We’re affected by their budget and their spending,”
Daryl Dulaney, chief executive officer of the Siemens Industry
division, said in an interview at Bloomberg’s Washington office.
“It causes us to react and adjust.”  Randy Belote , a spokesman for Northrop Grumman, based in
 Falls Church ,  Virginia , declined to comment.  Cheaper Ads  The Postal Service’s advertising spending increased 40
percent as the service  promoted  its profitable package-delivery
businesses. Most of the increase went to advertise flat-rate
boxes through a campaign created by Campbell-Ewald, making it
the eighth largest USPS supplier according to Hendel.  Jim Palmer, chief client officer for the  advertising agency 
based in Warren,  Michigan , said they understand the Postal
Service’s requests for cost-cutting. He declined to discuss what
cuts the service has requested.  “When the Postal Service comes to us, we do our absolute
best to react to their situation,” he said in an interview.
“As their business has ebbed and flowed, and it’s no secret
that there are some challenging times, we react in kind.”  While some of the Postal Service’s suppliers have
diversified businesses, others are more dependent on the mail
revenue for their livelihoods, Hendel said.  One is Pat Salmon & Sons, the fourth-largest contractor
with $143 million in revenue. The company was founded in 1946 to
move mail in  Arkansas  and has more than 100 postal contracts and
moves mail in 26 states, according to its  website .  “We wouldn’t be interested in commenting at all,” said a
man at the company’s headquarters in North Little Rock,
Arkansas, who didn’t identify himself before he hung up.  The Postal Service may have a hard time squeezing more
savings out of suppliers, Hendel said.  “About the only thing left is for USPS to reduce the
services and goods that USPS buys, or relax contract
requirements and specifications so that the cost of performance
is less,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  