-- 
For the Economy, the Real Slam Dunk Is Debt Forgiveness: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-06T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/for-the-u-s-economy-the-real-slam-dunk-answer-is-debt-forgiveness-view.html
U.S. homeowners don’t need another
reduction in their mortgage payments. What they need is a break
on their debts.  As President  Barack Obama  prepares to present his job-
creation plans to Congress this week, his advisers are studying
what some economists have called a “slam-dunk stimulus.” The
idea: Push mortgage giants Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  to
refinance the loans of millions of homeowners who otherwise
wouldn’t qualify because they owe more than their houses are
worth.  With  mortgage rates  at extreme lows, such a move could free
up billions of dollars in spending money. Also, by focusing on
borrowers who are current on their payments, it would reward
people who have acted responsibly -- as opposed to previous
mortgage-modification programs, which have been limited mainly
to defaulters.  Attractive as it sounds, the slam dunk would in some ways
miss the hoop. For one thing, the potential boost would be
pretty small in the context of the $15 trillion  U.S. economy .
Economists at Goldman Sachs estimate that it would provide U.S.
consumers with an added $20 billion to $40 billion, enough to
increase annual economic growth by only 0.1 to 0.3 percentage
point. Beyond that, the sudden demand for new mortgages could
actually defeat its own purpose by prompting banks to push rates
back up again.  Defining Feature  Most importantly, the idea ignores a defining feature of
the current economic slump: Responsible people who are still
deep in debt don’t go out and spend. If their mortgage
obligations exceed the value of their homes and they don’t want
to walk away, they’re stuck. They can’t easily sell, they can’t
move to take a new job, they can’t borrow money to start or
expand a business. Working their way out of the hole takes a
long time, which is one reason recoveries after debt crises tend
to be so slow.  In an ideal world, the market would sort things out quickly
and efficiently. Houses would pass into the hands of those who
could afford them at prices the market would bear, lenders would
take their losses, and the cycle would start anew. That’s not
happening. Mortgage servicing companies are taking years to
complete the foreclosure process, providing free housing to
defaulters while eroding incentives to maintain homes in good
condition. By the time banks get around to selling the houses to
new owners, there may not be much left to sell.  Better Strategy  A better strategy -- one that would truly be in the best
interests of lenders and mortgage investors -- would be to avert
foreclosures by writing down the principal on loans. Consider,
for example, a $100,000 loan on a house that’s now worth
$60,000. A 50 percent writedown, assuming it made the loan
affordable to the borrower, would leave the lender with an asset
worth $50,000 and a homeowner motivated to invest time and
effort in increasing the house’s value.  That’s a lot more than the lender would probably recover by
ultimately selling the house after years of foreclosure costs
and further depreciation. As of August, recoveries on defaulted
loans made in 2006 and 2007 without government guarantees
averaged 34 percent of the original balance, and were headed
down, according to data compiled by Amherst Securities Group LP.  If done on a grand scale, principal reductions would go a
long way toward eliminating the debt burden that is hindering
the recovery. To give a sense of magnitude, some 13.3 million
U.S. mortgage borrowers owe almost as much as or more than their
homes are worth,  according  to data provider CoreLogic.
Writedowns for all of them could cut the country’s ratio of
 household debt  to disposable income from the current 115 percent
to a more sustainable 100 percent.  Minimal Cost  Crucially, the debt relief would come at minimal added cost
to the U.S. taxpayer. Banks, including  Fannie Mae  and Freddie
Mac, might require further bailouts right away, but those would
probably be more expensive if put off longer. To give taxpayers
some benefit and reduce any incentive for borrowers to abuse the
program, the government could levy a tax on price gains enjoyed
by homeowners who receive principal relief.  With Congress, the Obama administration has the power to
make principal reductions happen. New legislation could transfer
the responsibility for modifying loans from servicers to new
entities with an interest in maximizing value. John Geanakoplos,
a Yale economist and a partner at the mortgage-focused hedge
fund Ellington Management Group, has estimated that it would
cost only $3 billion to $5 billion over three years to hire
community bankers to vet loans for principal reductions.  The solution wouldn’t be entirely fair. It wouldn’t help
people who were careful not to borrow more than they could
afford, and so avoided getting caught up in the housing boom.
But those people, too, stand to gain if their neighbors keep up
their houses and the economy improves, and will be worse off if
millions of their fellow Americans remain in a 21st-century
version of debtor’s prison.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 