-- 
Record Forint Surge on Swiss Franc Ceiling Sends Hungarian Banks Soaring

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-09-06T14:45:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/forint-jumps-most-on-record-against-swiss-franc-on-snb-pledge.html
Hungary’s forint jumped as much as
9.9 percent against the  Swiss franc , the most on record, and
bonds rallied after Switzerland’s central bank imposed a ceiling
on the franc’s exchange rate.  The forint surged to as strong as 225.784 per franc for the
biggest intraday gain since at least June 1993. It traded 8.2
percent stronger at 230.145 at 4:31 p.m. in Budapest, paring its
loss this year to 3.3 percent. The forint rose 0.5 percent
against the euro to 276.85. The yield on bonds due in June 2022
dropped by 33 basis points to 7.08 percent, the lowest since
June. OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, gained 4.1
percent, snapping a five-day losing streak, on speculation
losses on foreign-currency loans will fall.  Hungarian homeowners who bought property with foreign-
currency loans had faced a surge in costs as the forint weakened
against the franc, raising the potential for defaults. Sixty-
four percent of Hungarian household mortgages and 61 percent of
Hungarian local council debt are denominated in foreign
currencies, most of them in the franc, according to central bank
data.  “I see it as a breakthrough,” Gabor Orban, who helps
manage $2.5 billion in central and eastern European debt at
Aegon Fund Management in Budapest, said of the impact of the SNB
move on  Hungary . “It’s very good for OTP, for consumption, very
good for value-added-tax receipts,” Orban said, adding that the
Swiss decision also benefited Hungarian bonds because of its
impact on the budget.  President’s Meeting  Hungary’s Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  planned to meet
central bank President Andras Simor to discuss ways to reduce
the burden on borrowers who took out loans in Swiss francs, the
government said yesterday.  “The Swiss franc peg to the euro will change a lot the
dynamics on Hungarian assets, at least in the short term,”  Luis Costa , a strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  London , wrote in a
research report. “It destroys one catalyst of weakness in the
already battered Hungarian growth story.”  The government will cut its public debt to 73 percent of
gross domestic product this year from the current 77 percent,
Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  told reporters today. The
government revised its 2011 economic growth to about 2 percent
from 3.1 percent, Orban said Aug. 17.  The Swiss central bank is “aiming for a substantial and
sustained weakening of the franc,” it said in an e-mailed
statement today. “The SNB will enforce this minimum rate with
the utmost determination and is prepared to buy foreign currency
in unlimited quantities.”  OTP competes mostly with units of international banks,
including  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) ,  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and
 Bayerische Landesbank , and in the mortgage market with Budapest-
based Foldhitel es Jelzalogbank Nyrt., or FHB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  