-- 
Franc Options Foreshadow Gain, Denying Victory to Hildebrand

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-09-06T05:47:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/franc-options-foreshadow-rebound-denying-hildebrand-intervention-victory.html
Philipp Hildebrand’s success in
driving the franc to its lowest level in seven weeks may prove
fleeting if options prices are any guide.  The Swiss National Bank president weakened the franc as
much as 16 percent against the euro from its Aug. 9 record high
by cutting borrowing costs to near zero and boosting supply in
money markets six-fold. That hasn’t stopped analysts from
predicting it will hold this year’s 13 percent gain against the
17-nation currency by year-end and raising forecasts. Traders
drove an indicator of future demand to a record in August.  Hildebrand’s past efforts to stem the franc’s advance,
including 15 months of currency sales that contributed to the
SNB’s record $21 billion loss last year, couldn’t stop it from
outperforming 16 major peers since  Europe ’s debt crisis began in
late 2009. Investors see Switzerland as a refuge because it has
a lower ratio of debt to gross domestic product than the euro
area and expects budget surpluses through 2013.  “The question is, can the SNB do enough to halt the
appreciation of the Swiss franc?” Dirk Aufderheide, head of
currencies in  Frankfurt  at DWS Investment GmbH, which manages
about $400 billion, said in an interview on Sept. 1. “We’re
probably going to face more inflows when we see a deterioration
of Europe’s financial crisis or more growing uncertainty with
regard to global risk.”  Exports Hit  Switzerland’s economy is the victim of the currency’s 50
percent advance against the euro since the end of 2007. GDP 
expanded 0.4 percent in the second quarter, the weakest pace
since the economy emerged from a recession in the third quarter
of 2009. Exports, which account for about half of GDP, slumped
1.3 percent from the first quarter.  “The Swiss economy has a high probability of falling back
into recession given the currency moves,” Christian Gattiker,
head of research at Bank Julius Baer & Co., said in an Aug. 31
interview with  Andrea Catherwood  on Bloomberg Television’s
“Last Word.”  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s largest food company, said on Aug.
10 the franc’s gain stripped 14 percentage points off its first-
half sales growth. Baloise Holding AG, the nation’s third-
biggest insurer, said on Aug. 30 that first-half profit fell 3.4
percent because of the stronger franc.  Ferry operator Bodensee-Schiffsbetriebe GmbH is being hurt
by the currency fluctuations because passengers on its Lake
Constance ferry between Friedrichshafen, Germany and Romanshorn,
Switzerland can opt to pay fares in francs or euros. As the
franc appreciated, more Swiss customers chose to pay in euros,
saving as much as 39 percent and slicing the company’s profit.  Appeal to ‘Solidarity’  “We can’t force our Swiss passengers to pay in francs,”
Silke Rockenstein, a spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview.
“We can merely appeal to their solidarity and call on them to
opt for the Swiss currency.”  The franc slid from a record 1.00749 per euro on Aug. 9 to
1.10411 at 6:11 a.m. in  London  today. It was at 78.59 centimes
per dollar, down from the record 70.71 on Aug. 9. On a trade-
weighted basis, the franc has fallen 9 percent from a record
high on Aug. 9. Last week it jumped 4.4 percent against the
euro, its biggest one-week advance on record.  The premium for three-month options to sell the euro
against the Swiss currency versus those allowing for purchases,
a measure of the demand for protection against a higher franc,
increased to as much as 4.94 percentage points. Excluding the
all-time highs reached last month -- the measure increased to
5.36 percentage points on Aug. 9 -- the premium is at the most
since Bloomberg began collecting the data in 2003.  Risk Reversals  These so-called risk-reversals still factor in the risk of
“a hefty drop” for the euro against the franc,  Ulrich Leuchtmann , head of currency strategy at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt, said in an interview on Aug. 31. “If the environment
changes I think euro-Swiss would again come under quite a lot of
pressure.”  Hildebrand, 48, cut  interest rates  to “as close to zero as
possible” on Aug. 3, and subsequently boosted banks’ sight
deposits, or cash that can be withdrawn on demand, to 200
billion francs ($255 billion) from 30 billion francs.  The  European Central Bank  raised its benchmark rate to 1.50
percent in July. The  Federal Reserve  said after a meeting of
policy makers on Aug. 9 that it would keep its benchmark
interest rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent through
mid-2013.  Holdings Quadrupled  The SNB quadrupled holdings of foreign currencies in the 15
months through mid-June 2010, before suspending franc sales as a
measure to stem its advance. While the central bank said the
effort helped fight deflation threats, the franc still rose 19
percent against the euro last year.  The Swiss government plans to spend 870 million francs to
support tourism and exports and preserve jobs, countering the
effects of the currency’s “massive overvaluation,” it said on
Aug. 31.  While the SNB has so far avoided direct foreign-exchange
purchases in its latest bid to keep a lid on the franc, it may
soon have no alternative, according to  Adam Cole , head of
currency strategy in London at Royal Bank of Canada, the
nation’s largest lender.  “They need to do a lot more,” he said in an interview on
Sept. 1. “The fact that they have pushed forward rates into
moderately negative territory is nowhere near enough. Which
leaves really the only option of intervention and in the absence
of that the franc will just continue to grind higher.”  Negative Yields  Yields on two-year Swiss government debt turned negative
last month for the first time since Bloomberg began collecting
the data in 1995 as investors sacrificed capital for the
perceived safety of franc-denominated assets and 10-year rates
dipped below equivalent-maturity Japanese securities for the
first time since 1994.  Japan , also fighting a rising currency, sold 4.51 trillion
yen ($58.7 billion) last month, the Ministry of Finance said on
Aug. 31, to bring the yen down from postwar record of 75.95
versus the dollar on Aug. 19. The yen is still 5.7 percent
stronger against the dollar this year.  The franc appreciated as the sovereign debt crisis in the
euro area deepened. An index measuring the cost of insuring the
debt of 15 European governments rose to 328 basis points
yesterday, a record based on closing prices, and rising bond
yields forced the ECB to buy Spanish and Italian  government
bonds .  Budget Surpluses  Switzerland ’s government said on Aug. 30 it will post
annual budget surpluses through 2013 and its public debt will
fall to 36.4 percent of GDP this year. The euro area will have a
debt-to-GDP ratio of 87.7 percent in 2011 and a deficit of 4.3
percent, according to European Commission forecasts. Switzerland
also has a current-account surplus, the broadest measure of
trade, which means it doesn’t need to rely on foreign capital to
fund a deficit.  “The SNB’s recent actions are probably enough to keep the
Swiss franc relatively stable in the absence of severe  risk
aversion ,” driving investors into assets perceived as the
safest, said  Paul Robson , a senior foreign-exchange strategist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London.  “But what happens to the franc is out of the hands of the
Swiss authorities,” he said in an interview on Aug. 31. He
confirmed the comments yesterday. “There will be episodes where
money flowing into the franc won’t care about the interest-rate
being charged on it. When push comes to shove I think they will
just be blown away again.”  Volatility High  Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said on Aug. 17
that the government supports “any” measure deemed appropriate
by the central bank, including setting a target rate for the
franc versus the euro.  “The situation hasn’t calmed down,” Economy Minister
Johann Schneider-Ammann said at a briefing with reporters on
Aug. 31. “Volatility remains high. We’ll probably have to live
with the strong franc for a longer period of time.”  Economists are still boosting their year-end forecasts for
the Swiss franc against the euro, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The median estimate of 24 contributors is for the
currency to trade at 1.12 per euro at the end of the fourth
quarter, the data show. That’s stronger than the median year-end
analyst forecast for 1.22 per euro a month ago and 1.35 per euro
on Dec. 31.  “The uptrend remains firmly in place,”  Lee Hardman , a
currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in
London, said yesterday. “We believe there is a high likelihood
that the franc will test parity before year-end. Current SNB
actions on their own are unlikely to alter the direction of the
Swiss franc without a change in the underlying fundamentals.
We’d still look to be buying the franc against the euro.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  