-- 
Franc Plunges Most Ever Versus Euro

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-09-06T21:09:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/franc-slides-against-dollar-euro-as-snb-vows-to-stand-by-currency-target.html
The franc tumbled, dropping the most
ever against the euro, after the Swiss central bank imposed a
ceiling on the currency’s  exchange rate  and said it will defend
the target with the “utmost determination.”  The yen retreated against its most-traded counterparts
after Japan’s Finance Minister Jun Azumi said he will lobby
Group of Seven officials that a strong yen is bad for the global
economy. The euro fell for the sixth day against the dollar, the
longest losing streak since April 2010. The Norwegian krone
surged as investors sought an alternative to the franc.  “They have taken out one of the key safe-haven
currencies,” said  Simon Derrick , chief currency strategist at
Bank of New York Mellon in London, in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Midday Surveillance”. “Yes it’s not a peg, yes
they’re setting a floor on this, but as soon as people get a
good sense of how far the SNB can drive it then they’re going to
start very quickly to fight against them.”  The franc dropped 8.8 percent versus the euro to 1.20697 at
5 p.m. in  New York , after earlier depreciating 9.9 percent to
1.21911, the lowest level since July 5. It weakened 9.5 percent
to 86.21 centimes per dollar.  Switzerland’s currency fell at least 8.2 percent against
all 16 of the most-active currencies. The euro fell 0.7 percent
to $1.3998, touching the least since July 13. The dollar rose 1
percent to 77.66 yen.  Swiss National Bank  The franc had surged to records against the euro and the
dollar, hurting exports and eroding economic growth. While the
Swiss National Bank last month boosted liquidity to the money
market and lowered borrowing costs to zero, investor concern
that governments may struggle to contain  Europe ’s worsening debt
crisis has continued to push the currency higher.  The SNB is “aiming for a substantial and sustained
weakening of the franc,” the Zurich-based central bank said in
an e-mailed  statement . “With immediate effect, it will no
longer tolerate a euro-franc exchange rate below the minimum
rate of 1.20 francs” and “is prepared to buy foreign currency
in unlimited quantities.”  The franc is the best performer this year among a basket of
the currencies of 10 developed markets, appreciating 4.6
percent, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes. The dollar was the worst performing currency, losing
4.4 percent.  Swiss National Bank  President Philipp Hildebrand cut
 interest rates  to “as close to zero as possible” on Aug. 3,
and subsequently boosted banks’ sight deposits, or cash that can
be withdrawn on demand, to 200 billion francs ($255 billion)
from 30 billion francs.  Franc Efforts  Hildebrand’s past efforts to stem the franc’s advance,
including 15 months of currency sales that contributed to the
SNB’s record $21 billion loss last year, couldn’t stop it from
outperforming 16 major peers since Europe’s debt crisis began in
late 2009. Investors see Switzerland as a refuge because it has
a lower ratio of debt to gross domestic product than the euro
area and expects budget surpluses through 2013.  Swiss consumer prices rose at the weakest pace in almost a
year in August as a surging franc lowered the cost of imported
goods, a report today showed.  “In circumstances of a continued crisis in the  euro-zone ,
we believe that the SNB may be required to purchase foreign
currency of between $500 billion and $1 trillion,”  Derek Halpenny , European head of currency research at Bank of Tokyo-
Misubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London , wrote to clients.  Andrew Busch , a global currency strategist at Bank of
Montreal in  Chicago , estimated the central bank may absorb 200
billion euros in two months to defend the peg, in a conference
call to clients.  Krone Demand  Norway’s krone rose against all its 16 most-traded
counterparts as investors sought an alternative European
currency to the euro and franc.  “The Norwegian krone has been very strong today against
most currencies, which suggests that euro-krone becomes a
substitute or proxy for euro-Swiss,” said  Stephen Gallo , head
of market analysis at Schneider Foreign Exchange in London.  The krone rose 0.6 percent to 5.4091 per dollar and
advanced 1.4 percent to 7.5714 versus the euro. The currency
surged 9.4 percent to 6.2683 against the franc.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six U.S. trading partners, rose 1.1 percent to
75.94, the highest level since July 13.  Euro-Zone Uncertainty  The euro fell below its 200-day average of $1.4016 for the
first time since July 12.  “ Switzerland ’s success is very much contingent on how we
see things play out in the euro zone,” said Jeavon Lolay, head
of global research for Lloyds Banking Group in London. “It’s a
big call for them to do this while there is still so much
uncertainty around.”  The  European Central Bank  meets Sept. 8. European economic
data is underperforming by the most since March 2009, according
to Citigroup’s Eurozone Economic Surprise Index.  The yen fell for a second day against the dollar after
reaching a record high since World War II of 75.95 on Aug. 19.  “We’re very concerned about excessive yen gains and I want
to clearly state that we are watching speculative movements with
great interest” at the Sept. 9-10 gathering, Minister Azumi
told reporters in  Tokyo  today. ”I’m eager to convince them to
share the same view.”  G-7 finance ministers and central bank chiefs are scheduled
to meet Sept. 9 in Marseille,  France .  Japanese policy makers are “unlikely” to follow
Switzerland’s lead in setting a ceiling for their currency to
stem appreciation, according to a former chief foreign-exchange
dealer of the nation’s central bank. Japanese authorities sold
4.51 trillion yen ($58 billion) last month, the most in foreign-
exchange intervention for any month since 2004.  “I don’t want to say it’s impossible, but it’s quite
unlikely for  Japan ” to follow the Swiss lead, said Masaaki Kanno, who is now chief Japan economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in Tokyo. “The big difference between Switzerland and Japan is
size of economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  