-- 
Fuchs Petrolub, Jenoptik, Solarworld: German Equity Preview

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-09-07T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/fuchs-petrolub-jenoptik-solarworld-german-equity-preview.html
The following is a list of companies
whose shares may have unusual price changes in  Germany . Stock
symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are from the
previous close.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  slid 1 percent to 5,193.97
yesterday.  Fuchs Petrolub AG (FPE)  (FPE3 GY): The maker of lubricants will
maintain plans to increase spending on production and
distribution even as economies are cooling, Finanz und
Wirtschaft reported, citing Chief Executive Officer Stefan
Fuchs. The stock declined 1.8 percent to 29.80 euros.  Gagfah SA (GFJ)  : Germany’s largest publicly traded
property company is weighing delisting from the country’s MDAX
index for medium-sized companies, Financial Times Deutschland
reported, citing no one. The shares rose 6.1 percent to 4.08
euros.  Jenoptik AG (JEN)  : The laser maker is in talks about
possible acquisitions in  North America ,  Frankfurter Allgemeine
Zeitung  reported, without naming the other companies. The
company may spend a “triple-digit” million-euro amount on
acquisitions which could help boost annual revenue to as much as
800 million euros ($1.1 billion) over the medium term from about
500 million euros, FAZ reported, citing Chief Executive Officer
Michael Mertin. The stock rose 1.6 percent to 4.65 euros.  Roth & Rau AG (R8R)  (R8R GY): MBT Systems GmbH plans to enter a
control agreement with the German maker of solar-panel
manufacturing equipment. MBT Systems holds over 75 percent of
the share capital and voting rights following the completion of
a voluntary takeover offer, Roth & Rau said in an e-mailed
statement. The stock fell 5.5 percent to 20.61 euros.  Solarworld AG (SWV)  : The biggest German maker of solar
modules has rejected several approaches over takeovers and
mergers as the suggested prices were too low, Chief Executive
Officer Frank Asbeck said in an interview. The stock dropped 4.1
percent to 4.75 euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  