-- 
Fund Managers Bullish on Stocks in Q3: HSBC

-- B y   D a r r e n   B o e y   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-09-06T03:53:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/fund-managers-bullish-on-stocks-in-q3-hsbc.html
Global fund managers are bullish on
stocks for the third quarter, as the turmoil in financial
markets offers investors “attractive buying opportunities,”
according to a  HSBC Holdings Plc (5)  survey.  A survey of 12 investment companies overseeing $4.4
trillion in funds showed 63 percent are holding “overweight”
positions on equities this quarter, up from 44 percent in the
previous three months, HSBC said in a statement today. Some 57
percent of fund managers are “underweight” bonds in the third
quarter, compared with 38 percent in the previous period.  “Current market volatility has created attractive buying
opportunities for long-term investors,” Geoffrey Pidgeon, the
head of global investments at HSBC  Australia , said in the
statement. “While there is continued uncertainty around growth
in the U.S., corporate earnings forecasts remain positive.”  The MSCI All-Country World Index sank 7.5 percent in
August, its biggest monthly loss in more than a year, amid signs
the U.S. recovery is faltering and as  Europe ’s debt crisis
worsened. The measure of developed and emerging markets slid 0.3
percent as of 11:42 a.m. in Singapore, a fourth day of losses.
Data on Sept. 2 showed U.S. employment stagnated last month.  The 11 percent slump in the MSCI All-Country World Index
this year means the gauge is valued at 10.9 times estimated
earnings, less than the five-year average multiple of 13.6
times. Profits for Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies may
grow 19.4 percent in 2011 from a year earlier, according to
earnings estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Greater China  Fund managers also turned more bullish on equities in the
Greater China region this quarter amid speculation monetary-
tightening policies are coming to an end, the HSBC survey
showed. Inflation in the world’s fastest-growing economy
quickened to a three-year high of 6.5 percent in July. The rate
of consumer price increases may have eased to 6.2 percent last
month, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News before the release of the data this week.  The People’s Bank of  China  has increased its reserve
requirement ratio nine times since the second half of 2010, and
raised  interest rates  five times during the period. The central
bank last boosted the ratio in June and is on its longest pause
since the latest series of increases began in November.  “Global fund managers are looking toward the emerging
markets for opportunities and are focusing on Greater China
equities as market expectations of the end of the Mainland’s
tightening cycle continue,” said Pidgeon.  China’s Policies  Inflation is no longer a major concern in China and
tightening policies should be eased,  Wang Jian , secretary-
general of the China Society of Macroeconomics, affiliated to
the National Development and Reform Commission, said in an
interview with Hexun.com published yesterday.  The proportion of fund managers holding “overweight”
positions on Greater China stocks climbed to 57 percent this
quarter, compared with 25 percent in the previous three months,
HSBC said. Half of all fund managers are “underweight” on
European equities, up from 11 percent in the second quarter,
HSBC said.  -- Editors: Shiyin Chen, Darren Boey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in  Singapore  at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  