-- 
Gasoline Declines as Slower Economic Growth Limits Fuel Demand

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-09-06T19:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/gasoline-declines-as-slower-economic-growth-limits-fuel-demand.html
Gasoline declined to a two-week low
amid speculation that slower U.S. economic growth will curtail
demand for the motor fuel.  Futures slipped along with equities after the Bureau of
Labor Statistics reported Sept. 2 that the U.S. added no jobs in
August. Gasoline pared losses after a report today showed
 service industries  expanded at a faster pace in August, before
declining again. The Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index fell 1.1
percent at 2:40 p.m. in New York.  “As long as we have mixed signs about the economy I think
products prices” could head lower, said  Gene McGillian , an
analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut.  Gasoline for October delivery fell 1.7 cents, or 0.6
percent, to settle at $2.8226 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , the lowest level since Aug. 18.  Payrolls were unchanged last month, the weakest reading
since September 2010, after an 85,000 gain in July that was less
than initially estimated, Labor Department data showed in
 Washington  last week.  “All the investors in energy futures and the stock markets
are following these macro signals,” said  Chris Barber , a senior
analyst at Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,
Massachusetts.  ISM Report  The Institute for Supply Management’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses increased to 53.3 last month from 52.7
in July. Economists forecast the gauge would drop to 51,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. A
reading of 50 is the dividing line between expansion and
contraction in the largest part of the economy.  Heating oil for October delivery gained 1.28 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $3.0102 a gallon.  “Heating oil carried up the rest of the complex” before
the close, said  Tom Knight , vice president of trading and supply
at Truman Arnold Cos. in Texarkana, Texas.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, fell 0.2
cent to $3.66 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data. It’s
the first price decrease since Aug. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in  New York  at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  