-- 
German Stocks Retreat, Sending DAX to Two-Year Low; Bayer, Infineon Slide

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-09-06T16:07:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/german-stocks-jump-basf-bayer-henkel-deutsche-lufthansa-shares-rally.html
German shares fell for a fourth day,
with the benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  closing at the lowest since July
2009, as a drop in factory orders added to concern that the
European debt crisis is harming Europe’s largest economy.  Bayer AG (BAYN)  tumbled the most in 2 1/2 years as U.S. regulators
recommended that its blood thinner Xarelto not be approved to
prevent stroke in people with the most common abnormal heart
rhythm.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  lost 2.3 percent after
Fairchild Semiconductor International Inc. lowered its sales
forecast.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  followed European
financial shares lower.  The DAX slid 1 percent to 5,193.97 at the 5:30 p.m. close
in  Frankfurt  after plummeting 5.3 percent yesterday. The index
has retreated 31 percent from this year’s high on May 2 as
reports in the U.S., Europe and  China  pointed toward a slowdown
in global growth, which would curb demand for  Germany ’s exports.
The broader HDAX Index also fell 1 percent today.  A report today showed that factory orders in Germany fell
more in July than economists had forecast, led by a drop in
export demand as the global economy cooled. Orders, adjusted for
seasonal swings and inflation, dropped 2.8 percent from June,
the Economy Ministry in Berlin said. The decline, the first in
four months, exceeded the average economist prediction for a
slide of 1.5 percent.  U.S. Non-Manufacturing  German stocks maintained declines even as the  Institute for
Supply Management ’s index of U.S. non-manufacturing businesses
increased to 53.3 in August from 52.7 in July. The measure was
projected to drop to 51, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “One good figure is not enough for the markets to
stabilize,” said Heinz-Gerd Sonnenschein, an equity strategist
at Deutsche Postbank AG in Bonn. “There’s huge nervousness
among market participants.”  Bayer shares tumbled 7.5 percent to 37.75 euros, its
biggest drop since March 2009. The U.S.’s  Food and Drug
Administration  said in a staff report on Xarelto released today
that “there is insufficient information about the drug to
determine whether it is safe for use with its proposed
labeling.”  Infineon,  Europe ’s second-biggest chipmaker, tumbled 2.3
percent to 5.15 euros as Fairchild Semiconductor lowered its
third-quarter sales forecast to $400 million to $410 million
from its previous prediction of $433 million to $446 million.  Deutsche Bank, Germany’s biggest bank, fell 0.9 percent to
23.51 euros after earlier rising as much as 3.3 percent.
Commerzbank, the country’s second-largest lender, sank 3.4
percent to 1.75 euros, its lowest price in at least 19 years.
Banking shares posted the worst performance among 19 industry
groups in the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index today, losing 2.1
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  