-- 
German Factory Orders Decline More Than Forecast on Exports

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-09-06T10:55:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/german-factory-orders-fall-more-than-expected.html
Factory orders in  Germany , Europe’s
largest economy, fell more than economists forecast in July, led
by a drop in export demand as the global economy cooled.  Orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation, dropped
2.8 percent from June, when they rose 1.8 percent, the Economy
Ministry in Berlin said in a statement today. The decline, the
first in four months, exceeded economists’ forecast of 1.5
percent, according to the median of 37 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. On the year, orders rose 8.7 percent, when adjusted
for work days.  German business confidence fell to the lowest in more than
a year in August and the benchmark DAX Index has shed 25 percent
over the past three months as a global slowdown and  Europe ’s
worsening debt crisis clouded growth prospects. While a recovery
came to a near halt in the second quarter, export growth
quickened from the previous three months and unemployment fell
in August for a 26th straight month.  “Germany’s industrial sector has slowed down sharply in
recent months on the back of weaker world trade growth,” said
 Aline Schuiling , an economist at  ABN Amro  in Amsterdam. “The
escalating sovereign-debt crisis and recent turmoil of financial
markets will probably hurt confidence and activity.”  Foreign Demand  The euro was little changed against the dollar after the
report. It traded at $1.4186 as of 12:46 p.m. in Frankfurt, up
0.6 percent from yesterday.  Factory orders from abroad dropped 7.4 percent in July,
today’s report showed. Domestic orders rose 3.6 percent. Orders
of investment goods fell 7 percent from June, when they
increased 5.1 percent, with foreign demand slumping 12.8
percent. Domestic investment-goods orders rose 3.6 percent.
Demand for intermediate goods increased 2.9 percent and orders
of  consumer goods  gained 4.5 percent.  “In a change from previous months the amount of bulk
orders was merely average,” the ministry said in the statement.
“The factory orders dynamic has weakened in recent months,
although the trend remains pointed upward.”  Audi AG (NSU)  is hiring staff to increase car production,
including a 57 percent capacity boost for the 69,600-euro
($98,900) A8 flagship sedan on expectations that the luxury-auto
industry will weather the stock-market slump.  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW)  and Daimler AG are adding shifts, shortening breaks and
building new factories to meet demand.  Waning Confidence  At the same time,  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s biggest
steelmaker, on Aug. 12 posted fiscal third-quarter earnings that
missed analyst estimates as European demand weakened.  Siemens
AG (SIE) , BASF AG and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , three of Germany’s largest
companies, reported second-quarter earnings that missed analyst
estimates.  Adding to signs of slowdown, euro-area industrial orders
unexpectedly fell in June and economic confidence slumped last
month as consumers grew more pessimistic about the outlook. In
Germany, investor confidence dropped more than economists
forecast to the lowest in more than 2 1/2 years in August.  The Bundesbank forecasts the German economy will expand
about 3 percent this year as rising domestic demand helps
compensate for a moderation in export orders. Retail sales
unexpectedly held steady in July after surging the most in more
than three years the previous month.  “We are going to be seeing a somewhat slower pace of
growth,” said Jens Kramer, an economist at Norddeutsche
Landesbank in Hanover, Germany. “What allows us to sleep a bit
better is that domestic demand is still looking very healthy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 Jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  