-- 
Carbon Cap Revival Led by Gillard in Permit Plan Xstrata Calls Stupid

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-09-06T11:48:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/gillard-to-revive-carbon-cap-as-europe-sets-limits-on-un-credits.html
Julia Gillard, determined to join
efforts to reduce global warming, intends to revive cap and
trade as Europe puts curbs on the United Nations-run emissions
credit market and the U.S. opts out entirely.  The Australian prime minister’s plan to make factories and
utilities either cut the nation’s greenhouse gases or pay for
pollution-curbing programs abroad may force companies to buy an
average 66 million metric tons of credits a year starting in
2015, sending prices up 28 percent, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance. That’s about two-thirds of Europe’s annual
demand since 2008.  By pushing Australia into carbon trading, Gillard is
seeking to satisfy Greens party members of her Labor-led
coalition while breathing new life into a market that’s
floundering elsewhere. The European Union is setting limits on
UN credits to draw in less-developed nations. The U.S. rejected
a federal cap-and-trade program for emissions last year.  “If the Australian program passes, it’s going to provide
the UN carbon market with a much-needed shot in the arm,” Abyd Karmali, the London-based global head of carbon markets at Bank
of America Corp., said in a Sept. 2 telephone interview.  Mixed Success  Prices have tumbled in the past two years as nations such
as China and India flooded the market with credits awarded for
setting up their own clean projects. UN Certified Emission
Reductions, or CERs, for December delivery, fell to 7.40 euros
($10.48) a ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London on
Aug. 5, the lowest level since February 2009. Global demand for
credits will fall behind supply as targets set in Japan under
the 1997 Kyoto Protocol expire next year, according to New
Energy Finance.  Attempts to establish market-based systems to curb
pollution have had mixed success since the Kyoto agreement,
which sought to link regional carbon markets and channel money
from developed to emerging markets.  The U.S. shelved proposals in 2010 to start a program after
Congress blocked it because of costs and doubts about global
warming. China says it will set up pilot projects in six cities
starting in 2013 to prepare for a nationwide program. South
Korea plans to cap emissions for its 500 largest polluters
starting in 2013.  Rising Temperatures  “We would like to give global assistance to provide
support for green-growth efforts in developing countries as a
bridge builder between developing and developed countries,” Son Sung Hwan, South Korea’s Ambassador for Climate Change, said
today at a conference in Seoul.  Average temperatures around the world last year tied with
2005 as the warmest on record, according to the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric  Administration  in Washington. Emissions from
electricity generation climbed to an unprecedented 30.6 billion
tons in 2010, the International Energy Agency, the Paris-based
adviser to 28 nations, said in a May report.  The Australian proposals are “stupid,” Mick Davis, chief
executive officer of Zug, Switzerland-based  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the
world’s biggest thermal-coal exporter, told analysts on an Aug.
2 conference call. The company, with 18,986 employees and
contractors in Australasia, would probably lose sales to less-
restrictive nations such as Indonesia, he said.  ‘Important Step’  Australia’s system will mirror the one in Europe, which has
become the world’s biggest since it began in 2005. The region
runs a cap-and-trade program, so-called because it caps
emissions for more than 11,000 polluters while encouraging them
to trade spare permits allocated by governments. Companies from
Royal Dutch Shell Plc to Electricite de France SA may also
compensate for, or offset, their emissions by financing clean-up
projects in developing countries under the UN program.  “Australia’s decision to put a price on carbon emissions
is an important step, both environmentally and economically,”
European Commission President Jose Barroso said today in a
speech in Sydney. “We will now continue our joint work for a
global climate regime and discuss how we could gradually link up
our emissions trading systems in the future.”  Even so, EU use of UN credits will plunge 63 percent when
new restrictions begin in 2013, dropping to 150 million tons
from 400 million tons in 2012, Trevor Sikorski, an analyst at
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  in London, said in an Aug. 24 note. Regulators in
January decided to curb use of some credits, saying they are too
easy to get and faster-growing nations such as China and India
should pay for more of their own pollution.  U.S. Opposition  The UN market, known as the Clean Development Mechanism,
was set up by the 1997 Kyoto Protocol as a way of letting richer
nations offset their emissions at home by paying for cleaner
technology in emerging markets. Investors in such projects get
CERs, which can be used in nations with emission limits under
the international agreement through next year.  In the U.S., cap and trade is opposed by Republicans
including all the candidates running against President Barack Obama in 2012. Rick Perry, the governor of Texas, and Michele Bachmann, a congresswoman from Minnesota, agreed last month that
there is insufficient evidence that emissions are causing global
warming. Even Jonathan Pershing, Obama’s chief climate envoy,
said at June meeting in Bonn that the U.S. is reluctant to cap
emissions unless China and India agree to limits.  “The U.S. is marching to its own beat,” Karmali said.
“There is still significant debate on how much risk climate
change actually poses. I don’t think any of what’s happening in
Australia will impact the U.S. federal program.  Miner Compensation  After Obama failed last year to win Congressional approval
for cap-and-trade, California voted to start a statewide
emissions-trading program in 2013. Even so, the state’s latest
rules don’t  recognize  the UN program.  Under Gillard’s plan, Australian companies will be allowed
to use UN offsets for as much as half of their greenhouse gas
emissions starting in 2015, compared with a maximum 22 percent
in Europe. Coal miners will also get A$1.3 billion ($1.4
billion) in compensation, with the biggest polluters receiving
assistance over six years, while as much as A$9.2 billion will
be available in the form of free permits over three years.  Still, the government will fix prices at A$23 a ton on
emissions starting in July 2012, higher than in Europe, before
cap and trade begins.  “Australia is seeking to reduce the political risks of
carbon trading by allowing its emitters access to cheaper
credits, very much in the way Europe did in the early days,”
said Mark Meyrick, the Rotterdam-based head of carbon at Eneco
Energy Trade BV. “It will make life easier for the nation’s
mining and energy companies.”  ‘Most Expensive Disaster’  With 23 million people, a third fewer than California,
Australia is the world’s largest exporter of coal and gets 80
percent of its power from the raw material. When floods this
year in the state of Queensland killed 37 people and disrupted
coal production, Gillard called it the nation’s “most expensive
natural disaster.”  The proposals have yet to convince some of the biggest
mining companies.  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , based in London and the
world’s third-largest producer of coal for steelmaking, said in
June the government program would throw into doubt the company’s
$4 billion plan to expand in Australia. The Minerals Council of
Australia says the initiative would destroy 126,000 jobs and
threaten investment.  Gillard, 49, Australia’s first female prime minister, needs
to overcome opposition from her own party to pass the plan at a
time when her support is falling. Her  satisfaction rating  in
polls is 23 percent, compared with 48 percent last September.
Kevin Rudd, who Gillard replaced last year, lost support amid an
earlier debate on climate proposals.  Price Gains  This is “the largest economic and environmental reform for
a generation,” Anthony Hobley, global head of carbon finance in
Sydney at the law firm Norton Rose LLP, wrote in a July note.  UN prices will rise to 11 euros a ton ($15.58) by 2016 from
today’s 8.60 euros should the plan get approved by the
Parliament, according to New Energy Finance. They will drop 23
percent if Gillard fails, it estimates.  At the same time, Gillard is under pressure to support the
measures that the opposition says will boost household
electricity bills by A$700 a year in order to keep together her
coalition with members of the Greens party.  Australia will meet its target for a 5 percent reduction in
emissions by 2020 as polluters purchase offset credits from
overseas that year, according to the Australian Treasury
department. The plan allows the nation to increase emissions by
7.4 percent in the next decade, the department says. The Reserve
Bank of Australia said Aug. 5 the carbon tax will add 0.7
percent to the nation’s wholesale and consumer prices.  ‘No Big Impact’  “It’s not going to have a big impact on coal exporters,”
Ben Westmore, a minerals and energy economist at National
Australia Bank Ltd. in Melbourne, said Aug. 15 in a phone
interview.  Gillard is also counting on offsets to lower costs.
Australia is one of the most expensive places in the world to
cut emissions, said Seb Henbest, the Sydney-based head of carbon
markets at Bloomberg New Energy Finance. Credits from climate
projects in China or India, which are less-dependent on carbon-
intensive systems, can be as much as 8 euros a ton after 2012,
according to World Bank estimates from June. That’s less than
half the fixed price in Australia.  Offset Limits  In the EU, emitters won’t be able to use offset credits
from China and other richer emerging nations after 2013 unless
projects are registered with the UN by the end of 2012,
according to that system’s rules. Australia is not following
that restriction and emitters there will be able to import
credits from some of its biggest overseas trade partners.  “The fact that they are starting low-carbon trade
relationships as well as high-carbon relationships is good for
the Australian economy,” said James Cameron, vice chairman of
Climate Change Capital in London, who helped write the Kyoto
Protocol on behalf of small-island states. “I’d have liked the
targets to be more aggressive,” London-based Cameron said Sept.
1 by phone.  The carbon trade will help place emerging-nation economies
on a lower emitting path than their western counterparts. “It
doesn’t matter where the emissions are reduced,” said Robert Stavins, director of Harvard University’s Environmental
Economics Program in Cambridge, Massachusetts, one of the
architects of a U.S. program started in the 1980s that used cap-
and-trade to control acid rain. “It has the same effect on the
planet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  