-- 
Gold Drops Most in Two Weeks as Equity Rebound Trims Demand From Investors

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-09-07T18:58:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/gold-may-decline-for-a-second-day-after-rally-to-record-encourages-sales.html
Gold dropped the most in two weeks
as a rebound in global equities eroded demand for an alternative
asset and spurred investors to sell the metal after its rally to
an all-time high.  The MSCI All-Country World Index climbed as much as 2.8
percent while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures jumped 2.7
percent after legal challenges to  Germany ’s role in the euro
rescue funds were rejected by the nation’s top court. Gold
futures slipped from a record $1,923.70 an ounce yesterday as
the dollar rose to the highest level against six major
currencies in more than a month.  “We are witnessing some profit taking as the German court
ruling has provided some relief,” Sterling Smith, an analyst at
Country Hedging Inc., said in a telephone interview from  St.
Paul ,  Minnesota . “The downside volatility in gold can be pretty
intense.”  Gold futures for December delivery declined $55.70, or 3
percent, to settle at $1,817.60 an ounce at 1:25 p.m. on the
Comex in  New York , the biggest drop since Aug. 24.  The price slid about $50 within minutes at about 12:21
a.m., according to Bloomberg data. “We’re seeing continued
volatility, but nothing out of the ordinary,” Jeremy Hughes, a
Singapore-based spokesman for Comex owner CME Group Inc., said
in an e-mailed response to questions about the drop.  “There was probably a large sell order placed after the
double top emerged,” said  Jonathan Barratt , a managing director
at Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney. A double top refers
to an M-shaped pricing pattern comprising the Aug. 23 high of
$1,917.90 and yesterday’s peak, a sign for some investors who
study technical charts that gold may fall.  Court Ruling  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said yesterday
that  Greece  won’t get its next bailout installment unless it
meets goals under an aid package. A week after  Chancellor Angela
Merkel ’s Cabinet ratified additional measures to combat the
euro-area debt crisis, Germany’s top court today rejected three
constitutional challenges to the country’s participation in the
euro rescue funds.  “This is profit taking today as the German ruling is a
wash,” Scott Gardner, the chief investment officer at Panama-
based Verdmont Capital SA, said in an e-mail. “Whether Greece
gets short-term bailout installments or not does nothing to
alleviate the deep structural factors driving the euro-zone debt
crisis.”  Silver futures for December delivery fell 23.7 cents, or
0.6 percent, to settle at $41.631 an ounce on the Comex.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , platinum futures for
October delivery declined $29.50, or 1.6 percent, to $1,828.70
an ounce, the biggest fall since Aug. 24. Palladium futures for
December delivery gained $3.15, or 0.4 percent, to $752.70 an
ounce on the Nymex, rising for the first time in four sessions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in Mumbai at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  