-- 
Greek ‘Hard Default’ on Debt Obligations Isn’t Anticipated, Dallara Says

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 
2011-09-06T17:39:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/greek-hard-default-on-debt-obligations-isn-t-anticipated-dallara-says.html
Greece  isn’t expected to default on
its debt obligations even though there are challenges facing
 Europe ’s rescue efforts, said Institute of International Finance
managing director  Charles Dallara .  “Do we anticipate a hard default for Greece? Not at all,”
Dallara told reporters at a news conference in  Washington .  European politics and a worsening Greek economy are posing
obstacles to the debt deal agreed in July, Dallara said. These
hurdles are not “insurmountable” and the Washington-based
banking group remains confident that the deal will go forward,
he said.  Euro-area governments pledged 109 billion euros ($152.4
billion) in public money for Greece on July 21, accompanied by
50 billion euros through an IIF-coordinated private-sector debt
swap and bond buyback program. Since then, the deal has been
bogged down by  Finland ’s demands for extra security as a
condition of participating in the deal.  The  International Monetary Fund , which is also in line to
provide funding to Greece, has opposed the use of collateral
because it could deprive the IMF of its priority creditor
status. Negotiations continue today with a meeting of the
Finnish, Dutch and German finance ministers in Berlin.  Dallara said preliminary discussions with investors have
been “quite encouraging” and that it’s too soon to say whether
the deal will meet its participation target of 90 percent of
eligible bonds. So far, the plan has commitments from 40
institutions holding about 70 billion euros in Greek government
debt, or about 50 percent of the eligible total.  European Regulators  “There is now an initial exchange of information -- it is
not a formal road show -- being held with European regulators
and investors who hold Greek debt and then there will be a
formal offer,” Dallara said. He said it will take “some
weeks” to gauge the level of investor support.  Overall, investors are anxious about sovereign debt levels
and whether governments are taking enough action to rein in
spending, Dallara said. He took issue with IMF chief  Christine Lagarde ’s Aug. 27 comments that European banks should be forced
to add “substantial” amounts of capital to prevent the debt
crisis from infecting more countries.  European banks are generally not undercapitalized and only
a “small handful of small to medium-sized institutions” would
benefit from such a move, Dallara said. He called for broader
efforts to ease the debt-related “anxieties” in the U.S. and
Europe.  “There is an urgent need for markets to be reassured
regarding the trajectory of fiscal reform in Europe,” Dallara
said. In the case of Greece, “we see a government there that is
committed to sustain the economic reform agenda going forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 Cbenson20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 