-- 
Greece Pledges to Accelerate Austerity

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 
2011-09-06T18:28:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/greece-pledges-to-accelerate-austerity.html
Greece  said it will accelerate
austerity measures pledged in return for international financing
as pressure mounted from European partners before the payment of
a sixth tranche of bailout loans.  “Greece isn’t a pariah in the European Union or an open
wound,” Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said from Athens
on state-run NET Radio today. “Greece is an equal member of the
European Union with deficit and debt problems. Greece can
overcome these problems with these reforms.”  Venizelos said he received approval from the Cabinet today
to immediately transfer state assets to a special fund for sale,
place civil servants in a “reserve” system to retrain them and
cut expenses, as well as merge and shut down dozens of
government agencies that are a drag on spending.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Greece
won’t get its next bailout installment unless it meets goals
under the aid package. He was the latest official from an EU
nation to warn the country after a scheduled quarterly review of
Greece’s progress by the EU and the  International Monetary Fund 
was unexpectedly suspended for 10 days.  Spending cuts are “unavoidable” for indebted euro-area
members, Schaeuble said in a speech to Parliament in Berlin.  Yields Soar  The yield on two-year Greek notes rose above 52 percent
today as Greece’s economic predicament, a wavering commitment to
budget cuts in  Italy  and mounting borrowing costs for European
banks underscore investor concern that efforts by euro-area
officials to contain the debt crisis are unraveling.  Venizelos expects the economy to shrink by about 5 percent
this year, worse than the June estimate of 3.8 percent from the
EU and IMF, and a deeper contraction than in the past two years.
The forecast damps hopes that Greece will lower its deficit to
7.5 percent of gross domestic product in 2011, with the
government blaming the slump for a  budget deficit  that widened
25 percent in the first seven months of the year.  “The deeper recession, a recession for a third straight
year, automatically changes the fiscal target,” said Venizelos.
“The issue isn’t to get into a discussion about numbers; the
issue is to send a message to our partners, to Greek citizens
and to the international media that we understand the
situation.”  Greece is aiming at an additional 6.4 billion euros ($9
billion) in savings through the end of the year to meet the 2011
deficit target, part of a 78 billion-euro package of state-asset
sales and budget measures that threatened to topple Prime
Minister  George Papandreou ’s government in June.  A system to place civil servants “in reserve” would lead
to more savings than originally projected in this year’s budget,
Venizelos said. He promised to consider cutting tax rates once
the country developed a fail-safe collection mechanism that
would stem revenue losses through evasion.  GDP fell 6.9 percent from a year earlier in the second
quarter on a non-seasonally adjusted basis, after declining 8.1
percent on an annual basis in the three months through March.
The Hellenic Statistical Authority didn’t provide a seasonally
adjusted figure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net ; 