-- 
Groupon Is Said to Delay IPO, Planned Investor Meetings Amid Market Swings

-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-09-06T20:51:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/groupon-is-said-to-delay-ipo.html
Groupon Inc. , the biggest provider
of online daily-deal coupons, is postponing its initial public
offering and pushing back meetings with investors amid stock
market swings, three people familiar with the matter said.  Groupon and its bankers were planning to pitch investors
starting next week, said the people, who declined to be named
because the company’s plans are private. Chicago-based Groupon
may still be able to sell shares before year-end, two of the
people said.  U.S. listings have slowed because of investors’ concerns
about economic growth, the European debt crisis and a downgrade
of the U.S. credit rating. Since Groupon filed its initial
prospectus in June, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has dropped
11 percent. Groupon also needs time to address regulators’
questions, including possible revisions to a controversial
accounting method used in its filing, two of the people said.  Groupon spokeswoman Julie Mossler declined to comment.  U.S. IPOs have been shelved or scrapped at a faster rate in
the past three months than the comparable period of any year
since 2004, Bloomberg data show. Only five offerings were
completed last month. Groupon’s top competitor, LivingSocial,
has yet to file for an IPO, though the Washington-based company
was close to hiring bankers as of July.  Pre-IPO Comments  In Groupon’s updated IPO filing with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission on July 14, it asked investors to
disregard comments made the prior month by Chairman Eric Lefkofsky in a Bloomberg News story. On June 3, Lefkofsky said,
“Groupon is going to be wildly profitable.” The company said
the statement doesn’t accurately or completely reflect his
views.  The SEC limits what companies planning IPOs can say about
their prospects before listing shares. Last month, in a memo
sent to employees that was obtained by Bloomberg News, Chief
Executive OfficerAndrew Mason said the company is growing and
widening its lead over rivals.  The Wall Street Journal reported earlier that Groupon is
reevaluating its plans to go public.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net 
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 