-- 
Gunfire Jeopardizes Libyan Accord for Surrender of Town Loyal to Qaddafi

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   C h r i s   S t e p h e n
-- 
2011-09-07T11:16:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/libya-s-new-leaders-reach-agreement-for-handover-of-town-loyal-to-qaddafi.html
A deal for the peaceful handover of
Bani Walid, a Libyan town controlled by Muammar Qaddafi’s
loyalists, may collapse after local elders were threatened by
gunfire as they headed home from talks that produced the accord.  The five tribal leaders were shot at after negotiating with
the National Transitional Council’s envoys, according to a
television station run by the anti-Qaddafi authorities. The men
spent the night with the former rebel fighters, who surround the
town, Al Jazeera reported.  Since Qaddafi’s opponents took control of Tripoli, the
capital, last month, the transitional authorities have been
trying to restore stability, consolidate military gains and
capture the former dictator. More than six months of fighting to
end his 42-year rule have reduced oil output and disrupted power
supplies in the country with  Africa ’s largest crude reserves.  Meanwhile, the U.S. is pressing  Niger  to detain some
“senior members” of Qaddafi’s government who fled to the
neighboring country in vehicles Sept. 5, according to State
Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland . Qaddafi wasn’t in the
convoy, Niger’s interior minister said.  In the Bani Walid talks, the elders indicated a willingness
to allow the anti-Qaddafi forces to enter the town peacefully,
though loyalist fighters who fled Tripoli when it fell have been
holding positions in the town, said Fowad Drgash, a commander
with the opposition Khafila brigade.  The fighters want to give the accord “a chance” to work
without resorting to bloodshed, he said.  Differences Are ‘Blessing’  The negotiators gathered yesterday to speak in a mosque on
the edge of the town in a meeting televised live by  Al Jazeera .
The elders said more than 90 percent of Bani Walid backs the
peaceful entry of NTC fighters.  “Differences of political opinion are acceptable;
differences are a blessing,” Abdallah Kanshil, head of the NTC
negotiating team, told the group. He said the former rebels came
in peace, will respect law and order and “will not go into
anyone’s house, or arrest or humiliate anyone.”  “We are not like the former regime,” Kanshil said as he
tried to give assurances that NTC forces won’t seek revenge.
“We do not hold grudges.”  Qaddafi’s Son  The NTC has said that Qaddafi loyalists, possibly including
his son Saif al-Islam, were holding out in Bani Walid. The town
is the stronghold of the Warfalla, one of  Libya ’s major tribes.  Saif Al-Islam been seen in Bani Walid and is hiding in a
cave in the area, “stepping out every now and then in the
company of his bodyguards and regime supporters,” Kanshil told
Al Jazeera. Bani Walid sits at the edge of a valley that extends
some 20 kilometers (12 miles), he said.  NTC envoys were also in negotiations for their forces to
enter Qaddafi’s hometown of Sirte, southeast of Tripoli, and
Sabha, the site of a major military base south of the capital.
There was no immediate word on the progress of the talks.  Thousands of anti-Qaddafi fighters on Sept. 5 advanced to
positions within 15 kilometers (9 miles) of Bani Walid, ready to
enter with force if the talks broke down.  At Abdul Rauf, a fortified position in some low hills 48
kilometers south of Misrata, rebel forces have amassed more than
100 black-painted  pickup trucks , most with anti-aircraft guns or
rocket launchers mounted to their flatbeds. Two black-painted
rebel tanks sat by the side of the road, ready to support to an
advance on Bani Walid.  Rebel fighter Abdullah Maiteeg said the pro-Qaddafi units
appeared to have been abandoned by senior regime figures, who
are believed to have fled south through the desert.  Fleeing to Niger  A group of loyalist officials, including former
intelligence chief Mansour Daw, was welcomed into neighboring
Niger for “humanitarian reasons,” Nigerien Interior Minister
Abdou Labo said yesterday. The NTC was informed of the convoy’s
arrival, Labo said.  “We have strongly urged the Nigerien officials to detain
those members of the regime who may be subject to prosecution,
to ensure that they confiscate any weapons that are found and to
ensure that any state property of the government of Libya --
money, jewels, etc. -- also be impounded so that it can be
returned to the Libyan people,” the State Department’s Nuland
said yesterday.  Alain Eduard Traore, a spokesman for  Burkina Faso , which
borders Niger, dismissed as speculation news reports that the
Qaddafi loyalists were attempting to enter his country via
Niger.  “Burkina recognizes the NTC,” Traore said yesterday on
state television.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Stephen  in Misrata at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 