-- 
Iceland Search for Political Guilt Faces Hurdles in Crisis Trial

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-09-06T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/iceland-search-for-political-guilt-faces-hurdles-in-crisis-trial.html
Iceland’s trial of former Prime
Minister Geir H. Haarde for his role in the island’s 2008 bank
crisis may face hurdles as policies he backed have since proved
key in propelling the nation’s economic resurrection.  Haarde in September last year became the first political
leader to be indicted for mismanagement of economic affairs
during the financial crisis. Since then, Iceland’s economy has
shown signs of recovering faster than the average for the 17-
member euro area with a smaller public deficit, in part because
of measures supported by Haarde before he was forced to step
down in 2009.  The Haarde government’s decision to impose emergency
legislation at the end of 2008 allowed it to save domestic bank
assets and impose  capital controls  in an effort to protect the
currency. The island, which completed a 33-month International
Monetary Fund program last month, wouldn’t have recovered as
fast had it not been for policy makers’ crisis-management,
according to Nobel Laureate  Paul Krugman .  “It’s clear that Haarde gets the credit for Iceland’s
emergency legislation,” Omar Kristmundsson, a professor in
political science at the  University of Iceland , said in a phone
interview. “Most people agree that this indictment is
completely ridiculous.”  Bank Debts  The parliamentary committee that last year recommended
Haarde be indicted said his actions from February 2008 through
the beginning of October of that year exacerbated the island’s
boom and subsequent bust. Haarde didn’t exert enough pressure on
banks to shrink their balance sheets after they amassed debts
equivalent to 10 times Iceland’s economic output, the committee
said, arguing the development was key in fueling the collapse.  Haarde himself expects to be “completely vindicated in
this matter,” he said in a Sept. 5 interview in Reykjavik. His
lawyer, Andri Arnason, this month asked the court to dismiss the
case, arguing the charges are “unclear and unreasoned.”  The court can take as long as four weeks to respond,
Prosecutor Sigridur Fridjonsdottir said in an interview.  Most Icelanders oppose the indictment, according to a June
22 MMR poll, which showed 65.7 percent of voters are against the
trial, while 34.3 percent support it.  “It’s not enough to accuse him of being passive when the
economy was collapsing, when no one can point out what it is
exactly that he should have done,” Kristmundsson said.
“Inactions can’t equal culpability when no one knows what
actions would have avoided.”  Oddsson Years  The parliamentary committee found that former central bank
governor David Oddsson as well as the then head of the Financial
Supervisory Authority Jonas Fr. Jonsson also acted negligently
in the years leading up to the meltdown, according to an April
2010 report.  Jonsson and Oddsson, who now runs the country’s second-
biggest newspaper Morgunbladid, escaped legal action when the
state prosecutor said in June last year that a Special
Investigation Commission’s findings didn’t warrant a criminal
probe.  Oddsson was head of government from 1991 until 2004, making
him Iceland’s longest-serving Prime Minister and the principal
architect of the privatization of the island’s banks. Haarde
served as Finance Minister from 1998 until 2005. He was Prime
Minister from 2006 until 2009.  Haarde’s case marks the first time Landsdomur, a special 
court created in 1905 to hear such trials, is convening.  Prime Minister Johanna Sigurdardottir, who took over from
Haarde in 2009, has said she opposes the trial.  Economic Resurrection  Iceland’s economic rebound has pushed the cost of insuring
against its default below the average for the European Union.
The island’s gross domestic product will expand 2.9 percent in
2012, compared with 2 percent in the 17-member euro area.
Iceland’s government deficit will narrow to 1.4 percent of GDP,
versus a 3 percent shortfall in the euro bloc in 2012, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said in a
May 25 report.  Iceland’s economic resurrection has been achieved “with
very heterodox policies -- debt repudiation, capital controls,
and  currency depreciation ,” Krugman wrote in his New York Times
blog published Sept. 1. “It was as close as you can get to the
polar opposite of the gold standard. And it has worked.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  