-- 
Microsoft Ramps Up Google Challenge in $12 Billion Display-Ad Market: Tech

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-09-06T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/microsoft-adds-display-ad-tools-as-customers-choose-google-tech.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the largest
software maker, is adding features to its Internet display-
advertising products to keep from losing customers to  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc. in the $12.3 billion U.S. market.  Microsoft is unveiling tools and partnerships with AppNexus
Inc. and MediaMath this month designed to help customers more
effectively tailor ads and measure their impact. Sales of
graphical display ads, including banners and videos, are poised
to climb 25 percent in the U.S. this year.  The company aims to reassure customers such as Publicis
Groupe SA that have questioned its commitment to display ads and
the Atlas software it acquired with the $6 billion AQuantive
Inc. deal. As Microsoft shifted its focus to search-related ads,
some marketers have devoted more display-ad dollars to Facebook
and Google.  “We have continued to invest behind Microsoft and behind
Atlas,” said Curt Hecht, chief executive officer of  VivaKi 
Nerve Center, the unit that oversees technology for  Publicis
Groupe SA (PUB) ’s digital ad agencies. “We need a partner that’s as
committed as we are. Microsoft is at a point where they need to
show it’s important to them.”  Microsoft is adding personnel and dollars to bolster
display and Atlas, which is used to place ads on websites and
help advertisers measure performance of ad campaigns. Atlas vies
with DoubleClick, acquired by Google in a $3.1 billion purchase
announced a month before the AQuantive deal.  ‘Intelligently’ Investing  “We’re investing more, and more intelligently, in display
now,” said Microsoft General Manager Dennis Buchheim, who
oversees Atlas and other ad software. “There has been this
mumbling out there of, are we investing in display, and
absolutely that is a major investment area for us.”  He declined to provide specific spending or personnel
targets.  Atlas gives Publicis’s  Razorfish , formerly a Microsoft
unit, a competitive edge over agencies that use DoubleClick,
Hecht said. Still, Microsoft needs to improve Atlas, he said.  “It’s every three years or so that the software needs to
be rewritten,” he said. “Microsoft is now at that point in
time where the market is asking, ‘What’s next what’s the big
rewrite?’ Google has continued to invest in DoubleClick.”  Microsoft must modernize the design, which looks outdated
and requires even expert users to run through multiple steps,
said Grace Liau, who runs VivaKi’s ad operations group. Atlas
users also often have to call a Microsoft engineer to help them
target certain ads -- an option more readily available on
DoubleClick, she said.  Ads By Region  Microsoft plans new Atlas features for September that will
ensure customers see ad copy designed for their region, and keep
them from seeing the same ad too many times. Those are already
available in  DoubleClick , she said.  Microsoft’s renewed push coincides with an expected shift
in the Internet-advertising market. Search-based ads -- text-
only links that appear alongside Internet queries -- have
represented the bigger part of the U.S. Internet-ad market. In
the coming years, display will grow faster and become the bigger
segment in 2015, according to David Hallerman, an analyst at
EMarketer Inc. in  New York .  Spending on display advertising, expected to reach $12.3
billion in the U.S. this year, will almost double to $22 billion
in 2015, according to EMarketer.  Microsoft is now the  fourth-biggest  seller of display ads
in the U.S. behind Facebook, Yahoo! Inc. and Google. Microsoft’s
share is less than one-third of Facebook’s, and about half of
Google’s. In 2008, a year after Microsoft agreed to buy
AQuantive and Google announced the DoubleClick deal, Microsoft
was third behind Yahoo and  AOL Inc. (AOL)  Google and Facebook were
laggards then, Hallerman said.  Google’s ‘Impressive’ Ramp  “The ramp we’ve seen with Google has certainly been
impressive,” Microsoft’s Buchheim said.  Just after Microsoft purchased AQuantive -- for an 85
percent premium -- prices for display ads slumped and the market
for search-based ads took off. Microsoft, concerned that Google
would run away with the market, saw catching up in search as a
bigger priority for spending, Buchheim said.  Google had more than 65 percent of the market for software
that serves up display ads, including DoubleClick and other
programs, according a 2010 report from  San Mateo , California-
based  Attributor , which tracks Internet ad data. Microsoft had 4
percent.  Microsoft’s work on Atlas in the past few years involved
behind-the-scenes plumbing, not new features, said Ryan Mackle,
director of display platforms at Microsoft.  AppNexus, MediaMath  The company wants to change that by adding so-called
demand-side platforms like  AppNexus ,  MediaMath  and  Turn Inc . as
partners. The companies’ products let advertisers purchase only
the ads that target a specific audience -- for example, those
who have recently viewed the advertiser’s website.  Microsoft is also rolling out what it calls audience-
messaging tools that can ensure that a particular version of an
ad is shown only to customers in certain regions, or that a
customer who has already seen parts one and two in an ad series
is shown the third installment, Mackle said.  The software maker also has developed a feature for its
Excel spreadsheet program that makes it easier to manage media
campaigns, and software that lets customers view their Atlas
data in dashboards in Microsoft’s SharePoint program.  Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide Inc. uses Atlas to
make sure that customers visiting its websites in  Europe  are
shown banners for hotels in Paris and  Prague , not  Tokyo , said
Jason Albright, director of global online merchandising for the
hotel chain.  ‘Behind the Ball’  DoubleClick has surpassed Atlas in targeting capabilities
in the last several years, he said. Now Atlas is spending to
catch up.  “They were a little bit behind the ball, but they
recognized that and are investing in the right areas,” he said.  Advertisers are increasingly looking to purchase search and
display ads together, making it necessary for Microsoft to make
sure it has a strong offering in both. Google has grown so
quickly in display in part because it has harnessed existing
relationships with search-ad customers, Hallerman said.  “Microsoft needs a piece of display to keep their overall
ad business going,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  