-- 
India Banks, Fertilizer, Drugmakers ‘Attractive,’ Kejriwal Says

-- B y   T a n y a   A s h r e e n a
-- 
2011-09-06T09:17:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/india-banks-fertilizer-drugmakers-attractive-kejriwal-says.html
Arun Kejriwal, director of Kejriwal
Research & Investment Services Pvt., comments on the outlook for
Indian stocks. Kejriwal spoke by phone from Mumbai.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index rose 0.9 percent
to 16,866.27 at 2:41 p.m. local time, rebounding from a decline
of 1.4 percent in intraday trading. The gauge slid 8.4 percent
last month, the worst August in at least a decade.  On markets:  “We had a three-day rally that took the market up 1,000
points. This was partly justified because you had a 3,000-point
fall in five weeks. A 1,000-point rise means you corrected by
one-third, which is unsustainable to some point. Markets went up
too fast, so that’s why we are coming down. In the coming days,
there are several events, such as Obama’s speech, the G-7
finance ministers’ meeting, the issue of  Greece ’s debt
restructuring and the  Reserve Bank  of  India ’s review meeting.
Any one negative trigger in these meetings could lead to a
crisis. Nobody expects anything great to come out of these
meetings. There’s a lot of uncertainty.”  On  interest rates :  “The Reserve Bank is likely to increase rates because data
does not indicate positive numbers. Probably, after this meeting
on Sept. 16 we will not see anything happen on rates. This is
not to suggest we would start reducing rates. We would come to
neutral.”  On stocks recommendations:  “I like banks, fertilizers, pharmaceuticals and
infrastructure stocks. There could be non-performing assets in
banking stocks, but valuations look attractive and investors
will get 10-to-15 percent bounce when markets rally. Pharma
valuations have also fallen significantly and the industry is
doing well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Ashreena in Mumbai at 
 tashreena@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  