-- 
Indian Legislator, Ex-Politicians Arrested

-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-09-06T23:48:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/indian-legislator-ex-politicians-arrested.html
An Indian legislator and two former
politicians were arrested and detained for their alleged
involvement in an attempt to buy support in parliament ahead of
a crucial 2008 confidence vote.  Amar Singh, a legislator in the upper house of parliament
and a former leader of the regional Samajwadi Party who had been
charged by police for offering bribes to opposition members, was
denied bail by a New Delhi court yesterday and ordered into
judicial custody till Sept. 19. He denies the charges.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government faced a so-
called trust vote in July 2008 over its plan to strengthen
civilian nuclear ties with the U.S. after communist allies
withdrew support over their concerns the accord would weaken the
nation’s independent foreign policy.  Manmohan Singh won the confidence vote, the first in a
decade, by a narrow 19 votes in the 545-member lower house. His
victory came after two days of debate during which members of
the main opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party  waved bundles of
currency notes in the well of the house, claiming they had been
given the cash to support the government.  The Samajwadi Party supported the ruling alliance without
joining it.  The court also sent former BJP lawmakers Faggan Singh
Kuleste and Mahavir Bhagora, alleged to have accepted the money,
to judicial custody after refusing bail requests. Both deny
wrongdoing.  Citing U.S. diplomatic cables accessed through the
WikiLeaks  whistleblower website , the Hindu newspaper in March
reported that Singh’s Congress party used a fund to win the
backing of legislators. The claims led opposition leaders to
demand the prime minister’s resignation. Singh responded by
saying he did not authorize his party to buy the support of
lawmakers and that he had no knowledge of any payments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  