-- 
India May Need ‘Tens of Billions’ in Broadband Network Spending

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 
2011-09-06T06:50:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/india-may-need-tens-of-billions-in-broadband-network-spending.html
India needs to spend “tens of
billions” of dollars to expand its broadband network, as  Asia ’s
third-biggest economy targets better public access to
information and services, an adviser to the government said.  The next phase of growth in India’s telecommunications
industry will come from expansion of broadband connectivity to
cover government offices, manufacturing and media, Sam Pitroda,
the adviser on public information infrastructure to Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh , said in an interview in  Tokyo  today.  Companies including Bharti Airtel Ltd. and Qualcomm Inc.
last year bid 257 billion rupees ($5.6 billion) to buy licenses
to offer wireless broadband Internet services in the world’s
most populous nation after  China . Japanese companies could use
this opportunity to provide equipment and services in a market
where the number of broadband connections is  expected  to jump
13-fold to 160 million by March 2015.  “We’d like to see the Japanese participate this time,”
said Pitroda. “It requires a lot of investment. It requires
local presence and it requires local partnerships.”  The number of telephone connections in  India  is expected to
reach 1 billion by March 2015, the Telecom Regulatory Authority
of India said in a report in April. The country had more than
846 million phone  subscribers  and 11.9 million broadband
connections at the end of March, according to the regulator.  The increase in subscribers will require additional
investments in telecommunications equipment of about $19 billion
in 2015, and $34 billion by 2020, according to the regulator.  “Only about 12-13 percent of the demand for telecom
equipment is being met by domestic production,” the regulator
said in the report. “The demand supply gap and the imbalance
between the exports and imports of the telecom equipment provide
a good opportunity for manufacturing of telecom equipment in
India both by the global” and Indian companies, it said.  Japan ’s equipment makers now have a chance to supply gear
for the broadband networks in India, Pitroda said. The nation
plans to invest as much as 300 billion rupees in the next two
years to expand broadband services, the adviser had said in
July.  “The key challenge in India is scalability and
affordability,” said Pitroda. “It requires new business
partners, new ways of structuring to make money, and it requires
a little bit of innovation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  