-- 
India Bonds Drop on Speculation RBI Will Raise Rates This Month

-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-09-06T12:18:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/indian-bonds-gain-for-second-day-as-investors-seek-safer-assets.html
India ’s 10-year bonds declined on
speculation the central bank will raise  interest rates  for the
sixth time in 2011 at a policy review this month.  Yields rose after  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri
Subbarao said the amount of cash lenders need to set aside is
“high” and the central bank plans to reduce it gradually.
Lenders have to invest 24 percent of their deposits in
government debt and other approved securities. A cut in the bond
reserve requirement may reduce demand for fixed-income notes.
The central bank will review its policy on Sept. 16.  “Bonds investors will probably be wary of buying before
the policy,” said Rajeev Radhakrishnan, a Mumbai-based  money
manager  at SBI Funds Management Pvt. “Any move to cut the
mandatory bond holding requirement may also affect sentiment.”  The yield on the 7.8 percent bonds due April 2021 rose one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 8.30 percent at the 5
p.m. close in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system.  The repurchase rate, at which lenders borrow from the RBI,
is 8 percent. The wholesale  price index  has held above 9 percent
for eight months since December.  The RBI may increase the repurchase rate by 25 basis
points, Radhakrishnan said. [bn:WBTKR=INWHFOAY:IND]   Food inflation [] quickened to a four-month high of 10.05
percent in the week ended Aug. 20.  The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in borrowing costs,
fell two basis points to 7.63 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  