-- 
Indonesia Palm Oil Producers Reject New Export Taxes Policy

-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 
2011-09-06T10:16:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/indonesia-palm-oil-producers-reject-new-export-taxes-policy.html
The  Indonesia   Palm Oil  Association
urged the government not to impose higher export taxes on crude
than its refined products as it could encourage smuggling and
harm the processing industry.  “The significant difference between tariffs for crude palm
oil and its products will only boost smuggling,” Fadhil Hasan,
 executive director  at the association said in a press conference
in Jakarta today.  Indonesia, the largest palm oil grower, introduced a
maximum tax of 10 percent on refined, bleached and deodorized
palm oil, according to a  Finance Ministry Decree  signed Aug. 15.
The  tax rate  for RBD palm olein will be 13 percent. Crude palm
oil will be taxed at maximum of 22.5 percent. The new tax will
take effect Oct. 1.  A flat tariff of around 3 percent to 5 percent on crude oil
would be more beneficial for both growers and refiners, Hasan
said.  The new tax would have a negative impact on Indonesian
upstream planters in 2012 and 2013 as it would still take them
time to decide and build refining capacity, HwangDBS Vickers
Research Sdn. wrote in a report today.  “The decision is final,” Deddy Saleh, director general of
foreign trade at the Trade Ministry, said separately in Jakarta.
“What’s more important now is no longer opposing the new policy
but how to formulate a system that the  tax revenue  could be used
to improve welfare of oil palm farmers.”  Still, there is unlikely to be any impact on global crude
palm oil supply as a result of the new tax structure, as
upstream planters will have to accept lower prices until any
additional refining capacity comes on stream, HwangDBS said in
the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net ;
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net . 