-- 
Infinera Counts on Local Plant for Alcatel Showdown

-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 
2011-09-07T01:00:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/infinera-counts-on-local-manufacturing-in-showdown-with-alcatel.html
(Corrects speed of new chip in second paragraph.)  Infinera Corp. (INFN) , bucking the trend of
moving factories out of Silicon Valley, is keeping its Bay Area
plant humming in a bid to catch up with Alcatel-Lucent and  Ciena
Corp. (CIEN)  in the market for networking gear that speeds Web traffic.  The Sunnyvale, California-based company built a new factory
in 2001, just as the dot-com boom fizzled, using some of the
$300 million it raised before the bust. Now it’s counting on
that facility to produce a new chip that will send data at 500
gigabits a second -- fast enough to stream more than 100,000
high-definition movies simultaneously. The device will power a
line of gear that can transfer data at 100 gigabits per second.  By keeping its manufacturing nearby, the company is able to
fine-tune its components, which convert digital bits into
photons for long-distance treks over fiber-optic cables, said
Chief Executive Officer Tom Fallon. While Infinera is trailing
Ciena and Alcatel in offering 100-gigabit gear, those companies
cobble together chips and other components from other suppliers.
A Silicon Valley factory helps Infinera maintain closer control
over high-precision technology.  “Infinera is unique in the industry in that they are
vertically integrated,” said Blair King, an analyst at
Nashville, Tennessee-based Avondale Partners LLC. He has a
“market outperform” rating on Infinera shares.  Infinera is preparing to introduce its new 500-gigabit chip
at a Sept. 15 analyst meeting at its headquarters, according to
three people familiar with the company’s plans. That’s an
earlier unveiling than the company had previously discussed,
though the chip won’t ship until next year.  Stock Slump  Still, many investors have grown tired of waiting for
Infinera to deliver on its goals. The company has lost money in
all but one year since its initial public offering in 2007,
including $24.2 million last quarter.  The shares declined 32 percent this year. Infinera rose 3
cents to $7.02 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock
Market.  That’s turned the new release into a make-it-or-break-it
product for the company. Infinera is trying to regain the edge
it had four years ago when it held its IPO. At the time, it was
selling gear that transmitted data at 10 gigabits a second.
Customers included telephone and cable companies, and  Internet
service providers .  Ciena and Alcatel then got a jump on Infinera by selling
40-gigabit gear. The company was racing to produce a similar
product when Fallon, a former  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  executive, took
over as CEO in 2010. Rather than playing catch-up, he canceled
the 40-gigabit project and began focusing on 100 gigabit.  Staying Local  Getting out the new product soon will reassure investors
that the company is back on track, King said.  “A lot of people will be relieved,” he said.  Infinera is a rarity. Most of the big chip factories that
gave Silicon Valley its name have moved overseas to cheaper
locales. The few that remain are typically older facilities that
were picked up for pennies on the dollar by companies making
low-end devices.  Infinera’s 40,000-square-foot fabrication plant, or fab, is
cutting edge for the optical industry, though it’s smaller than
the multibillion-dollar chip factories built by  Intel Corp. (INTC)  or
Samsung Electronics Co.  Infinera’s approach is to apply advanced chip-manufacturing
methods to optical networks, which send data in the form of
light. Using a material called indium phosphide, rather than
silicon, engineers are able to etch tiny 3-D lasers and other
elements into the chips. The new component stuffs more than 600
such elements onto a chip that is 2 square millimeters.  Pulling It Off  The 100-gigabit industry is still in its early stages, said
Andrew Schmitt, an analyst at Campbell, California-based
 Infonetics Research . He expects the market to grow from “close
to zero” today to $3.2 billion in 2014. That would be a quarter
of total sales of optical networking gear.  “A lot of people were apprehensive about Infinera’s
ability to pull this off,” Schmitt said. “What they’re doing
is hard.”  Fallon expects carriers to embrace the new technology as
they cope with surging Web traffic. The next generation of
optical equipment also helps companies use fewer routers,
potentially saving them money.  “We take deep technology risks,” Fallon said. That helps
make up for the advantage of low-cost manufacturing, he said.
“Deep innovation beats commoditization if done right.”  Schmitt, the Infonetics analyst, says competition in the
100-gigabit industry is just getting started. Phone companies
usually don’t start buying new kinds of gear until there are
multiple suppliers. There will be seven or more makers of the
gear by 2014, he said.  “Infinera’s not late,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  