-- 
Inter Ikea Boosts China Spending With $626 Million Shanghai Shopping Mall

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-07T07:47:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/inter-ikea-may-spend-626-million-on-shanghai-mall-to-meet-china-demand.html
Inter Ikea Centre Group , the
developer of the world’s largest home-furnishings retailer, is
boosting the size of three malls it’s building in China and
plans a fourth in  Shanghai  on “huge demand” for shop leases.  Ikea Group’s mall developer plans to spend as much as 4
billion yuan ($626 million) on the Shanghai shopping center,
which may open as early as 2016, managing director John Tegner
said in an interview yesterday.  The investment in the Shanghai mall adds to the 10 billion
yuan Inter Ikea said in 2009 would be invested over five years
in China, where retail sales have grown an average of 17
percent in the seven months through July. Adidas AG, Swatch
Group AG’s local partner  Hengdeli Holdings Ltd. (3389)  and Gome
Electrical Appliances Holdings Ltd. are among those that are
adding stores in the world’s most-populous nation.  “ China  is the single most important market in the
world,” Tegner, 56, said in the eastern Chinese city of Wuxi,
where he attended a ceremony to mark the start of construction
of a 140,000 square-meter (1.5 million square-foot) mall
scheduled to open in 2013. “A lot of retailers want to come to
our sites, and we decided to make them a little bigger.”  ‘Less Risk’  Inter Ikea aims to open another shopping center in the
city of Wuhan in 2014 and a third in Beijing the year after.
The three malls, which will have stores by Sweden’s Ikea, will
have a total area of 510,000 square meters.  “Leasing from Inter Ikea has less risk because the company
and Ikea together are very sophisticated in choosing
locations,” Sherman Yeung, Beijing-based director of retail
services at Colliers International North China, said today.
“The number of people who can consume brands, such as Ikea, is
increasing.”  The Wuxi project will cost 2.3 billion yuan and is about
12 percent to 13 percent bigger than initially planned, Tegner
said. Retailers including Suning Appliance Co., China’s biggest
electronics retailer, and French hypermarket operator Groupe
Auchan SA have already signed for half of its 140,000 square
meters gross leasable area, Tegner said.  The projects were “a bit smaller” when Inter Ikea
started planning them, he said. “When we went through leasing,
we saw there is huge demand for our shopping centers.”  China’s Urbanization  Ikea , the world’s biggest home-furnishings retailer, last
year said it planned to more than double the number of stores
in China to 18 by 2015, as more people move to cities.  About 170 million Chinese moved to cities in the last 10
years, the biggest urbanization in history, according to the
 Chinese Academy of Social Sciences . China aims to increase the
proportion of those living in cities from 47.5 percent to 51.5
percent by 2015, it said in its latest five-year plan.  Inter Ikea is considering four to five sites in Shanghai
for its fourth mall in China, Tegner said.  The mall developer’s push comes as foreign retailers buy
properties, abandoning a decade-long strategy of leasing. Rents
in China soared after a 4 trillion yuan stimulus package in
2008 helped revive economic growth.  Investment in Chinese real estate rose 33.6 percent to 3.2
trillion yuan in the first seven months from a year earlier,
data from China’s statistics bureau show. Home sales volume
rose 12.9 percent in the first seven months from a year earlier
to 465.6 million square meters.  ‘Global Approach’  Owning more of the property its stores operate in is part
of Ikea’s “global approach,” Gillian Drakeford, the company’s
China retail president, has said. Ikea and its local partner
own eight of its nine stores in China and lease the location in
the southern city of  Guangzhou .  China’s economy  expanded a faster-than-estimated 9.5
percent in the second quarter, the government said in July, as
growth in industrial output and retail sales accelerated and
copper and aluminum production reached records.  Inter Ikea, 49 percent owned by Ikea Group with the rest
held by Inter Ikea Group, has 35 properties in 14 countries,
Tegner said. At least 15 more are  being built , according to the
company’s website.  About 5 billion yuan will be invested in Inter Ikea’s
Beijing mall, making it the biggest joint investment by  Ikea 
and Inter Ikea in the world, Ding Hui, China managing director
for Inter Ikea, said last year.  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  