-- 
International Paper to Buy Temple-Inland

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-09-06T14:36:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/international-paper-wins-temple-inland-for-3-7-billion-after-boosting-bid.html
International Paper Co. (IP) , the largest
pulp and paper maker, agreed to acquire  Temple-Inland Inc. (TIN)  after
raising its offer to $3.7 billion, ending a three-month battle
for control of the shipping-box manufacturer.  International Paper increased the all-cash bid to $32 a
share, the Memphis, Tennessee-based company said today in a
statement. Temple-Inland, which is based Austin,  Texas , had
previously rejected a June 6 offer of $30.60 a share as too low.
Temple Inland rose as much as 26 percent in New York.  To fend off the original bid, Temple-Inland had adopted a
so-called poison pill takeover defense that limited any person
or group from acquiring more than 10 percent of its stock. The
company also has a staggered board, meaning it could have taken
more than a year for International Paper to gain control through
proxy fights.  “The choice we had to make was do we sit and wait for a
long time and take the hard road or take the easy road,”
International Paper Chief Executive Officer John Faraci said
today in a telephone interview. “We’ve said from the outset
that a friendly, negotiated transaction was our objective and
that’s what we accomplished.”  Faraci said in June the deal would raise International
Paper’s share of the North American corrugated-packaging market
to about 37 percent from 27 percent. Regulatory approval for the
deal is expected by the year-end, he said today on a conference
call.  Markets Drop  Temple-Inland rose $6.25, or 25 percent, to $30.88 as of
10:34 a.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares traded as low as $19.03 on Aug. 23 amid tumbling stock
markets and on speculation the takeover wouldn’t proceed.
International Paper climbed 55 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $26.04.  Temple-Inland’s “growing awareness” of weakness in U.S.
stock markets and the country’s economy probably compelled it to
come to the negotiating table sooner than expected, Faraci said
in the interview.  “When we got into due diligence we saw some plusses and
some minuses that affirmed our value,” he said.  Evercore Partners Inc., UBS AG and law firm Debevoise &
Plimpton LLP are advising International Paper. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz are advising
Temple-Inland.  In January, Norcross, Georgia-based Rock-Tenn Co. agreed to
buy Chicago-based Smurfit-Stone Container Corp. for $4.5 billion
to become  North America ’s second-biggest containerboard
producer, after International Paper.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 