-- 
Tips for Surviving the Republican Candidate Debate: Ron Klain

-- B y   R o n   K l a i n
-- 
2011-09-06T00:00:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/tips-for-surviving-the-republican-candidate-debate-ron-klain.html
Having avoided preemption by a
presidential address, the debate of hopefuls for the Republican
presidential nomination looms tomorrow night as a critical event
on the party’s primary calendar.  All eight candidates are under pressure to perform, yet
that pressure isn’t evenly distributed, and the participants
don’t all have the same burdens and opportunities on debate
night. So who has to do what to be a winner at the  Ronald Reagan
Presidential Library  in Simi Valley,  California ?  Although many have suggested that Texas Governor  Rick Perry 
-- participating in his first debate of the race -- has the most
work to do, in fact, just the opposite is true. Perry does have
a long way to go before his front-runner status is cemented, but
in this debate, he needs to establish only one thing: sure-
footedness.  No candidate since Wesley Clark in the Democratic primaries
in September 2003 has leapt so quickly from entering the race to
the front of the polls. As the debate-preparation coordinator
for the Clark campaign, I remember those heady and anxious days.
Like Clark in the fall of 2003, Perry in 2011 is drawing support
from many voters who have never heard him utter more than a
sound bite or two -- a tenuous position.  Perry’s mission tomorrow night then, is to do nothing that
unnerves these newly acquired supporters in their first extended
exposure to him. He must sound sharp on economic matters and
reassuring on national-security concerns. Having come so far, so
fast, Perry probably cannot -- and almost certainly need not --
gain ground in the debate; his focus needs to be on making sure
he doesn’t make major gaffes that imperil his status.  Practice, Practice, Practice  If I were advising Perry, I would have him off the campaign
trail, preparing, resting, and practicing, practicing,
practicing.  By contrast, the performance burden falls most heavily on
the previous front-runner, former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney. In the months before Perry got in the contest, the
Romney campaign lost its edge by adopting the political
equivalent of a prevent defense in the first quarter of a
football game. Unprepared for what hit them, the Romney camp has
floundered since Perry came on the scene.  Romney has lurched to the right, in a doomed effort to
compete with Perry and Representative  Michele Bachmann  of
 Minnesota  on their turf. As a result, he is losing the
“strength” primary to Perry, as the Texan appears comfortable
with his more natural positioning, while Romney seems uncertain
and weak in his newfound conservatism. Romney needs to use the
debate to reclaim the middle ground, showing that he can stand
up to Perry and Bachmann instead of trying to emulate them.  Outrageous Statements  Perry has made outrageous statements, even by the standards
of the Republican primary electorate. In his 2010 book, “Fed
Up,” he suggests that Social Security is a program “violently
tossing aside any respect for our founding principles,” and
that Medicare is unconstitutional. This should be fodder for
Romney at the debate for a much-needed move to unapologetically
reassert a centrist position for his candidacy.  Only by taking on Perry’s extremism can Romney arrest his
opponent’s momentum. Will Romney be the 2012 version of Arizona
Senator  John McCain  -- the 2008 front-runner who stumbled early
but regained his footing -- or will he more closely resemble
former New York Mayor  Rudy Giuliani , the early leader in 2008
who saw that position slip away, never to be reclaimed? That
question starts to be answered tomorrow night.  Establishing Competence  Bachmann, too, finds herself under pressure, albeit for a
very different reason. She has raised the bar for herself with
her success in earlier debates: Mere competence (what Perry must
demonstrate in his first outing) won’t be enough to ensure a
successful night for Bachmann. Unlike Romney, who needs to aim
his fire upward at Perry, Bachmann needs to take her shots at
two candidates who are nipping at her from behind: former
executive  Herman Cain  and Texas Representative  Ron Paul .  For while Bachmann will ultimately have to counter Perry’s
gains among establishment conservatives, her most immediate
concern should be the fracturing of grass roots, Tea Party
support among herself, Cain and Paul.  She should use the debate to appeal to these voters
directly, telling activists that their failure to unite behind a
single candidate means the inevitable nomination of either Perry
or Romney. She needs to make the case for why she -- and not
Cain or Paul -- is the right wing’s best chance at having one of
their own as the Republican candidate.  Breakthrough Moment  Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and former Utah Governor
 Jon Huntsman  are rarely lumped together, but they share a common
task tomorrow: avoiding irrelevance. Thus, the preparation that
most candidates engage in for debates -- polishing expertise,
crafting answers, preparing for oddball questions -- is of no
importance to them.  A good overall performance does little for them; what each
of them needs is a single, exceptional, breakthrough moment.
With Perry, Romney and Bachmann hogging the spotlight (on the
one hand), and Cain and Paul sustained by hard-core followers
(on the other), Gingrich and Huntsman need to use the debate to
avoid a Tim Pawlenty-like fade into oblivion. Their goal is to
claim an attack, a new slogan, a memorable idea that cuts
through the clutter and earns them precious post-debate sound
bite coverage that will otherwise go entirely to the big three.  They won’t get many chances, and they can’t wait until the
setup is just right: They need to force their moment as soon as
they get the microphone.  Core Supporters  Cain and Paul, by contrast, need to do only what they do
best: energize their core supporters. Unlike Gingrich and
Huntsman, who are failing to find an audience, Cain and Paul
have devoted followers who seek out what their candidates are
saying even when the mainstream media gives them little airtime.
Yes, they need to guard against any effort by Bachmann to snatch
their supporters, but their best counter to such an effort is to
stick with the messages that have won them a devoted following.  If all the other candidates need to stretch in some way on
debate night, Cain and Paul just need to keep firing up their
supporters with uncompromising, hard-line positions that lack
broad appeal, but resonate with true believers. And what about
former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum ? He should just enjoy
his time in the limelight, which is probably coming to an end
soon.  Perry, Romney and Bachmann enter the debate like stock
cars on the track, running three abreast down the straightaway,
speeding toward a corner.  Will Perry spin out? Will Romney reclaim the middle of the
road? Can Bachmann put distance between herself and Cain and
Paul?  Something -- someone -- is going to have to give ground in
Simi Valley.  ( Ron Klain , a former chief of staff to Vice President  Joe Biden  and senior adviser to President  Barack Obama  on the
Recovery Act, is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is a senior
executive with a private investment firm. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Click on “Send Comment” in sidebar display to send a letter to
the editor.  To contact the writer of this article:
Ron Klain at
 rklain@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 