-- 
Lira Gains First Day in Four on Morgan Stanley Equities Upgrade

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-09-06T15:00:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/lira-gains-first-day-in-four-on-morgan-stanley-equities-upgrade.html
The lira strengthened for the first
day in four as investors bought Turkish stocks after Morgan
Stanley raised the country’s equities to “overweight.”  The lira gained 0.2 percent to 1.7668 per dollar at 5:39
p.m. Yields on the two-year benchmark bond increased one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage points, to 7.75 percent, a Turk
Ekonomi Bankasi index of the securities showed. The  ISE National
100 Index (XU100)  rallied 1.8 percent.  Morgan Stanley raised the country’s stocks from “equal
weight” in its regional portfolio, saying recent losses may be
overdone. Turkish banks, which make up about 40 percent of the
country’s benchmark stock index, were raised to “neutral” from
“underweight” at Deutsche Bank AG yesterday.  “We are seeing foreigners buying the lira,” Emir Baruh, a
currency trader at Akbank TAS, said in e-mailed comments. “It
is most probably the result of positive reports from Morgan
Stanley and Deutsche Bank for our stocks.”  The lira weakened as much as 1.2 percent yesterday after
 Turkey  suspended military relations with  Israel  last week and
expelled Israel’s ambassador over Israeli Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu ’s refusal to apologize for the deaths of
activists on a ship that sought to break an embargo last year
and take aid supplies to the  Gaza Strip .  “I don’t see a risk in the short term,” Ercan Uysal, head
of research at Standard Bank Group Ltd.’s unit in Turkey, said
in e-mailed comments. “Israel is not a big trade partner of
Turkey.”  Turkey exported $1.5 billion of goods to Israel this year,
making it the 17th biggest market for Turkish goods, Trade
Minister Zafer Caglayan said at a news conference in Ankara
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  