-- 
Mizuho’s Takei, Who Foretold U.S. Debt Rally, Sees Yields Falling to 1.5%

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-09-06T07:06:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/mizuho-s-takei-who-foretold-u-s-debt-rally-sees-yields-falling-to-1-5-.html
Mizuho Asset Management Co.’s Akira Takei, who correctly predicted the rally in Treasuries, said 10-
year yields may drop below 1.5 percent within six months.  Takei, general manager of the international fixed-income
investment department at Mizuho Asset which manages the
equivalent of $43 billion, said in a June interview that 10-year
yields would fall to 2.4 percent within a few months and that he
favored longer-maturity debt. The rate touched that level on
Aug. 4 and dropped to a record 1.9066 percent today.  The  Federal Reserve  pledged last month that it will keep
its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low at least through
mid-2013 to bolster the economy. Two-year yields were at 0.196
percent today, below the upper end of the Fed’s target range for
its funds rate of zero to 0.25 percent.  “The Fed’s pledge means yields up to two years can be
zero, which will in turn weigh on the yield curve and provide
support for longer-maturity debt,” Tokyo-based Takei said by
phone today. “The implication of this pledge has yet to be
fully digested in the market, but it will eventually sink in.”  U.S. government debt  with a maturity of 10 years or longer
has handed investors a 21 percent gain this year, set for the
biggest annual advance since 2008, according to an index
compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Treasuries with a
maturity of one to 10 years have returned 6.1 percent during the
period.  Takei said his portfolio is concentrated on debt with a
maturity of 10 years and longer and he’s considering selling
one- to three-year notes to buy 30-year debt for higher-yields.
U.S. bond yields for all maturities are below the inflation rate
of 3.6 percent.  Gross Mistake  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said in a
Financial Times interview last month it was a mistake to sell
his fund’s holdings of U.S. government debt.  “I get that it was my/our mistake in thinking that the
 U.S. economy  can chug along at 2 percent real growth rates,”
Gross said, according to the FT.  Gross, who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at Pimco,
wrote in his June  report  that Treasuries didn’t yield enough to
compensate for inflation.  Mizuho’s Takei said he had a two-hour chat with Gross about
six years ago at Pimco’s headquarters in  Newport Beach ,
California.  “What I thought after meeting him was that I wanted to be
called  Asia ’s Bill Gross,” Takei said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 