-- 
J&J Failed to Warn About Drug’s Tendon Risks, Lawyer Says

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-09-06T19:15:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/j-j-failed-to-warn-about-antibotic-s-tendon-risks-lawyer-says.html
Johnson & Johnson failed to properly
warn two  New Jersey  men that the antibiotic Levaquin could
damage their tendons, a lawyer told a state jury.  Officials of  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J and its
Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceutical unit downplayed Levaquin’s
risks in warning labels even after receiving reports from  Europe 
about tendon ruptures, said  Andy Alonso , a lawyer for Paul
Gaffney and Robert Beare. The two men contend they suffered
Achilles-tendon injuries after taking the antibiotic.  “J&J officials knew there was a problem and did everything
they could to hide it” to protect Levaquin’s sales, Alonso told
jurors today in opening statements in state court in Atlantic
City, New Jersey.  A J&J lawyer countered today that the drugmaker repeatedly
warned doctors and patients about reports linking tendon
ruptures to Levaquin, starting when it was approved for sale in
the U.S. in 1996.  “From the very first label,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  included
information about reports of ruptures of the shoulder, hand and
Achilles tendon,” Christy Jones, the company’s lawyer, told
jurors in her opening statement.  The Atlantic City case is the third over Levaquin tendon
injuries to go to trial since November and the first to be tried
in New Jersey state courts. J&J faces more than 2,600 claims in
U.S. courts over the drug, court dockets show.  Blockbuster Drug  In December, a federal-court jury in  Minnesota  ordered J&J
to pay $1.8 million in damages to 82-year-old man who alleged
Levaquin caused his Achilles tendon to rupture. In June, another
jury in that same court rejected an 84-year-old man’s claim over
his Achilles injury.  Levaquin, which generated more than $1 billion in sales
over an eight-year period starting in 2000, was J&J’s third-
largest selling product at one point. In 2008, the U.S.  Food and
Drug Administration  required all makers of antibiotics in
Levaquin’s class to beef up warnings about tendon ruptures.  Regulators required the upgraded warnings after finding
that the antibiotics increased the risk of tendon ruptures to
three to four times that of the general population, FDA
officials said.  Both Gaffney, 67, and Beare, 72, got Levaquin prescriptions
to deal with sinus infections, Alonso told jurors. Both men
wound up with Achilles-tendon injuries that left them unable to
walk and required surgery.  ‘Downplayed the Risks’  Instead of putting a prominent warning about tendon risks
on Levaquin’s label, J&J officials hired ghostwriters to craft
articles touting the antibiotic’s safety and effectiveness,
Alonso said.  “They downplayed the risks of this product” in their
marketing materials, he said.  Jones countered that Gaffney and Beare had other ailments
that could have caused their Achilles tendon problems. The pair
also may have contributed to the injuries through their actions,
she added.  “It’s unlikely that either one of the plaintiffs would
have suffered a tendon rupture if they’d followed their doctors’
advice,” Jones said.  FDA regulators were aware of reports of tendon problems
associated with the drug when they repeatedly approved it as
safe and effective, she said.  Lawyers for both sides estimated the trial, before Judge
Carol Higbee, would last about four weeks.  J&J rose 30 cents to $64.37 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading at 3:04 p.m. The shares gained 3.6 percent
this year before today.  The case is Beare v. Johnson & Johnson, L-196-10-MT,
Superior Court of New Jersey for Atlantic County ( Atlantic
City ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  