-- 
Bayer Fell as FDA Urges Against Wider Xarelto Use Approval

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-09-06T20:30:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/j-j-bayer-fall-as-fda-staff-urges-xarelto-not-get-expanded-use.html
Bayer AG (BAYN)  fell in trading after U.S.
regulators recommended that the blood thinner Xarelto it markets
with  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  not be approved to prevent stroke in
people with the most common abnormal heart rhythm.  The  Food and Drug Administration  said in a staff report
released today that “there is insufficient information about
the drug to determine whether it is safe for use with its
proposed labeling.” An advisory panel of outside authorities
will meet Sept. 8 to discuss the new use of the drug, chemically
known as rivaroxaban. The FDA may decide by Nov. 5 and isn’t
required to follow panel recommendations.  Bayer fell 3.08 euros, or 7.5 percent, to 37.75 euros at
the 5:30 p.m. close of trading in  Frankfurt . The decline was the
biggest since March 17, 2009. J&J rose 57 cents, or 0.9 percent,
to $64.64 at 4 p.m. in New York; the company is “confident in
the effectiveness of rivaroxaban to prevent strokes in patients
with atrial fibrillation,” Ernie Knewitz, a spokesman, said in
an e-mail.  The irregular heart condition known as atrial fibrillation
affects more than 2 million Americans, according to the  American
Heart Association . Bayer, based in Leverkusen,  Germany , and  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J  won  approval July 1 to market
the drug for prevention of blood clots after knee or hip
replacement surgery.  Physicians for the past half-century have used the drug
warfarin that requires constant monitoring and dose adjustments
to prevent stroke in atrial fibrillation patients, according to
the  New England Journal of Medicine .  Xarelto Competition  Xarelto would compete with Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH’s
Pradaxa, approved by the FDA for the heart patients in October,
and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s apixaban, known
as Eliquis, now being tested in clinical trials.  If the companies can overcome the FDA’s concerns, Xarelto
would probably not be superior to warfarin, a step down from its
potential competitors, and may be restricted to high-risk
patients, Mark Purcell, an analyst with Barclays Capital Group
in  London , said in a note to clients today.  “Even if approved somehow, Xarelto would likely be a
commercial failure” in the atrial fibrillation population in
the U.S., he wrote.  Further study on Xarelto may take two years, said Richard Logan, an analyst with Goldman Sachs International in London.  ‘Tougher Hurdle’  “By this point, Boehringer-Ingelheim’s Pradaxa drug would
likely be the standard of care, which could create a tougher
hurdle rate for Bayer,” Logan wrote in a note to clients today.  The FDA staff said its first concern is that warfarin was
not adequately used in the Xarelto study, potentially giving
Xarelto an unfair advantage in comparison. Staff also cited
concern with excess strokes in patients using Xarelto who
transitioned to warfarin.  The FDA staff recommended J&J and Bayer conduct another
trial to study a transition regimen.  “This is not the final FDA assessment,” Alexander
Siedler, a spokesman for Bayer said in a telephone interview.
“We still have time to work with the FDA to satisfy the
information needs they have.”  The new compounds eliminate the need for routine blood
tests. Eliquis probably will lead the market, analysts said,
after researchers presented “best-in-class” study results Aug.
28 at the European Society of Cardiology’s conference in Paris.  Bleeding Risk  The pill had a 31 percent lower risk of major bleeding, a
safety concern with blood thinners, compared with warfarin and
an 11 percent reduced risk of dying, the first time a warfarin
replacement has saved lives in a clinical trial.  In a study of 14,264 patients, 188 patients taking Xarelto
suffered a stroke or artery obstruction compared with 241 taking
warfarin, according to  results  published in the New England
Journal of Medicine. Rates of major bleeding were similar in the
Xarelto and warfarin groups. Slightly more patients on Xarelto
experienced non-major bleeding, 1,475 compared with 1,449 on
warfarin.  The comparison group of patients given warfarin during the
study was in the recommended treatment range just 55 percent of
the time. In separate studies of Xarelto’s rivals, the
comparison groups on warfarin did better, with patients
remaining in the therapeutic window 64 percent of the time
during the Pradaxa trial and 62 percent in the apixaban trial.  The journal said Xarelto was tested on higher-risk
patients.  Dosage Differs  Pradaxa and apixaban are given twice daily while Xarelto is
taken once a day. U.S. sales of Xarelto will reach $1.2 billion
by 2015,  Larry Biegelsen , a senior analyst with Wells Fargo
Securities in  New York , wrote in a Sept. 1 note to clients.  The advisory panel will probably discuss the percentage of
time Xarelto was in the therapeutic range, as well as data that
showed a high number of patients who stopped taking it and
switched to warfarin suffered a stroke, said  Seamus Fernandez ,
an analyst with Leerink Swan in  Boston , in a Sept. 1 note to
clients.  The questions the FDA presented today for the panel to
discuss are less severe than the staff report and take into
account the sicker patient population studied with Xarelto,
Matthew Dodds, an analyst with Citigroup Global Markets Inc. in
New York, said in a note to clients today.  Biegelsen didn’t expect the panel to recommend Xarelto be
declared superior over warfarin.  J&J holds the rights to sell Xarelto in the U.S. Bayer
sells the drug in  Europe  where it won approval in 2008 for use
in knee- and hip-surgery patients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  