-- 
Jaguars Release Quarterback Garrard Five Days Before Team Starts Season

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/jaguars-release-quarterback-garrard-five-days-before-team-starts-season.html
The  Jacksonville Jaguars  cut
starting quarterback David Garrard in a move that shocked
teammates five days before the team’s opening game of the
National Football League season.  Garrard, 33, started 68 games for the Jaguars over the past
five seasons and was a Pro Bowl selection in 2009.  The Jaguars will save $9 million with Garrard’s release and
said Luke McCown will take over as the starter for
Jacksonville’s Sept. 11 opener against the  Tennessee Titans .  “He just wasn’t able to get it going this preseason,”
Jaguars coach Jack Del Rio said yesterday. “He even admitted
that when we talked, that for whatever reason he just has not
been able to find a rhythm, not been able to be his old self.
And so with that being the case we just had to make a football
decision and we decided to let him go.”  Rookie quarterback Blaine Gabbert, the 10th overall pick in
this year’s draft, will be McCown’s backup.  Garrard, who thanked Jaguars’ fans on his  Twitter feed ,
completed  50 percent of his passes  in three preseason games for
216 yards, with no touchdowns and an interception. McCown, in
his eighth NFL season from Louisiana Tech, connected on 67
percent of his passes for 133 yards, two touchdowns and no
interceptions during the preseason.  In nine seasons in Jacksonville, Garrard passed for 16,003
yards, with 89 touchdowns and 54 interceptions.  “I’m shocked. Nobody saw it coming really,” Jaguars tight
end Marcedes Lewis told ESPN. “But at the same time it was
obviously a decision that they thought was important for us to
continue on our quest. So we have to go in a different
direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  