-- 
News Corp.’s James Murdoch Likely to Face Lawmakers Again in Hacking Probe

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-07T07:40:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/james-murdoch-likely-to-face-new-questions.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s James Murdoch faces new
questions about the extent of illegal phone hacking at the News
of the World tabloid after two executives challenged his
statements to parliament.  Tom Crone, the newspapers’ lawyer until July, and  Colin Myler , its former editor, yesterday said they told Murdoch in
2008 about an e-mail that suggested phone-hacking went beyond a
rogue reporter. Crone told the parliament’s Culture Committee it
was “absolutely inconceivable” that the pair wouldn’t have
explained this when they discussed a lawsuit with Murdoch.  The fresh challenge to Murdoch’s claims may prompt
lawmakers to recall him for questioning in the scandal that led
to the closure of the News of the World, the arrests of at least
15 people and forced News Corp. to drop a bid for  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  Murdoch, News Corp.’s deputy chief
operating officer, reiterated that he hadn’t realized until late
2010 that hacking was widespread.  “He was either guilty of ignoring a wider problem, or
failing to spot it. Either way, he’s not acted responsibly,”
said  Charlie Beckett , director of media at the  London School  of
Economics. At the same time, it “strains credulity to think”
that both sides are “giving us a full picture.”  James Murdoch, 38, and his father Rupert, 80, were already
questioned on July 19 by British lawmakers for three hours.
 Rupert Murdoch , who is News Corp.’s Chief Executive Officer, is
“highly unlikely” to be recalled,  Therese Coffey , one of the
committee’s members, said yesterday.  ‘Top of the Empire’  “Rupert Murdoch was very much at the top of the empire and
covering a vast range of activities,” Coffey told BBC Radio 5.
“I think it’s clear that  James Murdoch  was the key figure.”  Lawmakers may meet next week to decide on whether to recall
witnesses in the probe. Committee Chairman  John Whittingdale 
said July 29 that the lawmakers wrote to Murdoch and that
they’re likely to demand new explanations.  News Corp. rose 3.3 percent to the equivalent of $16.70 in
Australian trading today. The stock closed yesterday at $16.33
in  New York .  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  The dispute centers around an e-mail that was produced by
police and showed transcripts of hacked voice mails and had been
passed around the News of the World newsroom.  ‘I Probably Did’  Myler and Crone met with Murdoch for less than 15 minutes
in 2008 to discuss the settlement of a privacy complaint filed
by  Gordon Taylor , chief executive of the Professional
Footballers’ Association. They said yesterday they told him the
company had to settle because Taylor’s lawyers had produced a
transcript of voice mails typed by a reporter at the newspaper
and marked “for Neville.”  “I think everybody perfectly understood the seriousness
and significance of what we were discussing,” Myler told the
committee.  Asked if he had told Murdoch that this appeared to be a
reference to Neville Thurlbeck, the paper’s chief reporter,
Crone replied, “I’ve got a feeling I probably did.”  James Murdoch said neither Myler nor Crone told him that
wrongdoing extended beyond reporter  Clive Goodman  and private
investigator  Glenn Mulcaire , who both went to jail in 2007.  “As I said in my testimony, there was nothing discussed in
the meeting that led me to believe that a further investigation
was necessary,” Murdoch said in a statement. “They did not
show me the e-mail, nor did they refer to Neville Thurlbeck.”  Murdoch has said he agreed to the payment -- more than 10
times the record court award in a privacy case at the time -- on
advice of outside counsel.  Hacking Terror Victims  The News of the World has been accused of hacking into
voicemails from terror victims, celebrities, sports athletes and
politicians. James Murdoch joined News International, News
Corp.’s U.K. newspaper unit, as chairman in December 2007, after
the alleged hacking took place.  “James Murdoch has to stick to his story,” Niri Shan, the
head of media law at Taylor Wessing LLP in  London , said in an
interview yesterday. “The committee wasn’t particularly
convinced by Myler’s and Crone’s recollection of the meeting.”  Jon Chapman, the former head of legal affairs at News
International, said yesterday that the company’s investigation
into phone hacking after a reporter’s arrest was never intended
to be a wide-ranging probe into wrongdoing.  Law-Firm Probe  A law-firm probe commissioned by the company was designed
to deal with an employment lawsuit filed by Goodman, Chapman
said. Chapman said his own review of e-mails didn’t find
evidence of illegal activity.  The review “was in the context of an employment tribunal
and not a criminal case,” Chapman said.  Murdoch told the committee in July that the law firm’s
investigation was one of the three “pillars” the company
relied on during years of denials that wrongdoing went beyond a
single reporter. In written evidence released by the committee
yesterday, News Corp. said an examination of e-mails represented
the only external probe of phone hacking that had taken place.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  