-- 
JinkoSolar May Buy Back ‘Undervalued’ Shares, Acquire Developers

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-06T11:17:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/jinkosolar-may-buy-back-undervalued-shares-acquire-developers.html
JinkoSolar Holding Co., a Chinese
solar-product maker, said it may be time for the company to buy
back its “severely undervalued” American depositary shares, as
well as study purchases of project developers to spur demand.  “We’ll choose a proper time period to buy back our
American depositary shares,” Chief Executive Officer Chen Kangping said today in a phone interview. “The stock is
severely undervalued, so it may be a good time to do so.”  The company, based in Shanghai, announced in May the board
agreed to purchase as much as $30 million of its shares for the
next 12 months. The stocks have fallen more than 47 percent this
quarter. At the end of the second quarter, JinkoSolar had 575.8
million yuan ($90 million) of cash and cash equivalents.  “We’re looking into opportunities of acquiring solar-power
plant developers and contractors of engineering, procurement and
construction overseas” to boost demand for products, Chen said.  Falling prices for solar products because of overcapacity
in China and weaker demand in Europe have forced some companies
to close and others to cut operations. Three U.S. businesses
including solar module maker Solyndra Inc., which received $535
million in federal loan guarantees, have failed in a month.  Solarworld AG (SWV) , Germany’s largest solar module maker, said
Sept. 3 it planned to close a factory to reduce costs.  “The consolidation means both opportunities and risks for
JinkoSolar,” Chen said. While module prices are expected to
decline by about 7.7 percent to $1.20 a watt in early November,
European demand will pick up in the next three months, he said.  Earnings Jump  “JinkoSolar is currently focusing on expansion of its
existing business of module sales,” he said.  The company reported second-quarter net income expanded 30
percent to 235.3 million yuan from a year earlier, partly
spurred by falling raw material costs.  “We bought all the polysilicon from the spot market and
enjoyed lower costs when spot prices tumbled,” Chen said.  The company aims to achieve 1.5 gigawatts of capacity each
in solar wafers, cells and modules by the end of the year, up 36
percent from the second quarter, it said last month.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 