-- 
JPMorgan, Citigroup, Credit Suisse Land Lead Roles in Carlyle Group’s IPO

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-09-06T17:19:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/jpmorgan-citigroup-credit-suisse-land-lead-roles-in-carlyle-group-s-ipo.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and Credit Suisse Group AG landed lead roles managing the
initial share sale for Carlyle Group LP, taking one of the last
major private-equity firms public in a faltering market.  The mandate may give the banks a boost among underwriters
as companies and their bankers struggle to complete deals.
JPMorgan currently ranks third for U.S. IPOs, while Citigroup
ranks fourth and Credit Suisse is eighth, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. listings have slowed almost to a halt because of
investors’ concerns about the economy, eroding fee income at
investment banks. U.S. IPOs have been shelved or scrapped at a
faster rate in the past three months than the comparable period
of any year since 2004, Bloomberg data show. Only five offerings
were completed last month.  “They should be doing cartwheels and jumping in the air to
get any kind of revenue in the door right now,” said Tom Jalics, a senior investment analyst at the private-banking unit
of KeyCorp in  Cleveland , which oversees $22 billion. “From what
we’re hearing anecdotally, this quarter is going to be
extraordinarily weak, and estimates across the board are coming
down for investment banks.”  The three banks all have a track record for taking private-
equity firms public. Citigroup helped lead the February 2007 IPO
of  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , as well as  Blackstone Group
LP (BX) ’s in June 2007 along with Credit Suisse. JPMorgan, Credit
Suisse and Citigroup all helped lead Apollo Global Management
LLC’s share sale in March. Washington-based Carlyle is the
second-biggest private-equity firm after Blackstone.  Average Fees  Absent from Carlyle’s filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission was  Morgan Stanley (MS) , which shared the lead
role with Citigroup on Blackstone’s offering.  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , which helped manage both Apollo’s share sale and the
Fortress IPO, also wasn’t mentioned in the filing.  Barclays Plc is the top-ranked underwriter for U.S. IPOs
this year, and Morgan Stanley is ranked second, according to
Bloomberg data. Banks have earned underwriting fees averaging
5.4 percent of the total IPO size for U.S. deals this year, the
data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 