-- 
AT&T, U.S. Must Consider Settlement Prospects in T-Mobile Deal, Judge Says

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-09-07T15:20:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/judge-orders-at-t-u-s-to-hearing-on-trial-schedule-on-sept-21.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  and the  Justice Department 
must come to court Sept. 21 ready to discuss “the prospects for
settlement” of the government’s antitrust lawsuit seeking to
block the company from buying T-Mobile USA Inc., a judge said.  U.S. District Judge Ellen S. Huvelle in Washington issued
the order yesterday after a telephone conference with the
parties in the case, according to the court docket. Huvelle told
the company and the government to file a joint proposal by Sept.
16 for scheduling the litigation that would “facilitate the
just, speedy and inexpensive” management of the case.  “I read this to mean that the judge wants them to state
succinctly what the areas of disagreement are and determine
whether she can facilitate a settlement,” said Melissa Maxman,
the Washington-based co-chair of the antitrust practice group at
Cozen O’Connor. “If not, then she will set a schedule for
proceeding with litigation. It will make things clearer.”  The Justice Department sued Dallas-based AT&T on Aug. 31 to
stop its $39 billion acquisition of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-
Mobile unit. The government said the combination of the two
companies, which would make AT&T the biggest U.S. wireless
carrier, would reduce competition “substantially”.  ‘Higher Prices’  The Justice Department claimed that combining AT&T with
Bellevue, Washington-based T-Mobile would result in “higher
prices, poorer quality services, fewer choices and fewer
innovative products” for consumers.  Acquisition of T-Mobile by AT&T would displace  Verizon
Wireless , owned by Verizon Communications Inc. and Vodafone
Group Plc, as the No. 1 U.S. wireless carrier. Sprint Nextel
Corp. would remain the third-largest. AT&T and T-Mobile compete
head-to-head in 97 of the nation’s top 100 mobile-phone
marketing areas, according to the Justice Department’s
complaint.  “Judges always want to settle cases,” said Bob Doyle, a
partner at Doyle, Barlow & Mazard PLLC in  Washington  and a
former official at the Federal Trade Commission. “This
litigation would be huge. She wants to clear her docket.”  Still, he said, litigation is more likely than a settlement
judging from the Justice Department’s argument that the deal is
anticompetitive for the national market as well as local ones.  Greg Neppl, an antitrust partner with Foley and Lardner LLP
in Washington said he doubts the lawsuit is a negotiating
tactic.  “If T-Mobile is broken up, the department doesn’t get the
result of preserving an independent competitor,” he said. “A
settlement would be a very heavy lift.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  