-- 
Julian Barnes, First-Time Novelists Make Booker Prize Shortlist

-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 
2011-09-06T11:36:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/julian-barnes-first-time-novelists-make-booker-prize-shortlist.html
Julian Barnes and two first-time
novelists were among six finalists in the  Man Booker Prize for
Fiction , the U.K.’s most prestigious literary award.  Sponsored by hedge-fund manager  Man Group Plc (EMG) , the contest
brings the winner a prize of 50,000 pounds ($80,380) and the
promise of an almost certain increase in book sales.  Barnes was nominated for “The Sense of an Ending” (Cape),
in which a middle-aged man’s memory and sense of identity are
thrown into question when he is bequeathed an old school
friend’s diary. This is Barnes’s fourth turn as a finalist.  First-time novelist Stephen Kelman made the final round
with “Pigeon English” (Bloomsbury), the story of an 11-year-
old Ghanaian immigrant to London, whose amateur sleuthing
following a knifing leads him toward danger.  Fellow first-timer A.D. Miller was tapped for “Snowdrops”
(Atlantic), a psychological drama whose protagonist, an
Englishman in Moscow, finds himself sucked into new  Russia ’s
corrupt underbelly.  A notable omission in a selection dominated by independent
publishers was “The Stranger’s Child” by Alan Hollinghurst
(Picador), who won the prize in 2004.  “Inevitably it was hard to whittle down the long list to
six titles,” Stella Rimington, chairman of the judging panel
and former head of MI5, said in an e-mailed statement. “We were
sorry to lose some great books. But, when push came to shove, we
quickly agreed that these six very different titles were the
best.”  The other finalists are: Carol Birch for “Jamrach’s
Menagerie” (Canongate); Patrick deWitt for “The Sisters
Brothers” (Granta); and Esi Edugyan for “Half Blood Blues”
(Serpent’s Tail).  The contest is designed to celebrate the best novel written
by a citizen of the British Commonwealth or the Republic of
Ireland and published this year. The 2011 winner is scheduled to
be announced at a dinner in  London ’s Guildhall on Oct. 18.  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at  hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 