-- 
KKR-Backed Masan Seeks Vinacafe Unit to Tap Vietnam Consumption

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-06T18:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/kkr-backed-masan-seeks-vinacafe-unit-to-tap-vietnam-consumption.html
Vinacafe Bien Hoa Joint-Stock Co., a
unit of Vietnam’s second-biggest coffee exporter, said it
received a 1.07 trillion dong ($51 million) takeover bid from
 Masan Group Corp. (MSN)  as the nation’s young population drives
increased  consumer spending .  Masan Consumer Corp., a subsidiary of Masan Group and
partly owned by KKR & Co., plans to buy 13.32 million Vinacafe
shares for 80,000 dong apiece, for a 50.11 percent stake,
Vinacafe Bien Hoa’s Deputy General Director Le Hung Dung said by
phone yesterday. Masan spokesman Brad Jaffe didn’t respond to
requests for comment by phone and e-mail.  Masan’s unit is seeking control of the coffee roaster after
the group told investors in April it had a “war chest” of as
much as $500 million for acquisitions, according to an annual
general meeting presentation posted on the company’s website.
Smaller consumer companies may become targets for further
acquisitions in  Vietnam  as they offer higher margins, growth and
protection against accelerating inflation, said Adrian Cundy,
head of research at VinaSecurities Joint-Stock Co.  “Consumption has been growing steadily even with
uncertainty about the macro-economic situation,” said Chris
Freund, managing partner at Mekong Capital, which sold its Masan
shares in November after they doubled in value. “If you look at
how quickly they’ve been growing, it’s a reflection of the
market they’re operating in.”  Shares in Masan Group, whose businesses include financial
services, consumer staples and natural resources, yesterday rose
4.3 percent to 122,000 dong, the highest since May 12. Vinacafe
climbed 4.7 percent to 100,000 dong, the highest since the
company was listed in January and 25 percent higher than the
Masan bid, which would be completed between Sept. 12 and Oct.
11, according to a  statement  by Vinacafe on the Ho Chi Minh City
Stock Exchange website.  ‘Different’ Price  “That’s the price they offered,” Vinacafe’s Dung said.
“Our price at this point is different.” Masan Consumer
calculated the price to comply with a government rule that
takeover offers exceed the average price over 60 days prior to
the date of the bid, he said. The coffee producer’s board will
discuss the offer at a meeting on Sept. 13, he said.  Viet Capital Securities Joint-Stock Co. is the “agent”
for Masan’s acquisition, Vinacafe said in its statement.  Masan Consumer, formerly known as Masan Food, is the market
leader in fish, soya and chili sauce and the second-largest
producer of branded instant noodles in Vietnam, the company said
in April.  “Masan appears to be executing on its stated acquisition
strategy,” Cundy said. “Coffee is a big part of the Vietnam
consumer story, and they are buying a controlling stake. For
Vinacafe, it shows that control and good consumer brands are
worth a market premium.”  VinaSecurities is the securities unit of the country’s
biggest fund manager.  KKR Stake  Masan Consumer agreed in April to sell a 10 percent stake
to KKR, the investment firm managed by  Henry Kravis  and  George
Roberts , for $159 million, in the largest private-equity
investment in Vietnam. New York-based KKR is betting Vietnam’s
young population and growing middle class will help it generate
returns even amid inflation concerns.  Vietnam’s retail sales rose 22.2 percent in the first eight
months of this year from the same period last year, according to
the General Statistics Office. Consumer prices rose 23.02
percent in August from a year earlier, the fastest pace since
November 2008. That’s the highest inflation rate among 17 Asian
economies tracked by Bloomberg.  Vinacafe Corp., which has a 37 percent stake in Vinacafe
Bien Hoa, was the country’s second-biggest coffee exporter
measured by the 2010 crop, according to Vietnam Coffee and Cocoa
Association. The largest is Vietnam Intimex Joint-Stock Corp.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
K. Oanh Ha at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net  