-- 
Kohn Says Better Bank Balance-Sheet Data Would Help Transparency

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-06T17:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/kohn-says-better-bank-balance-sheet-data-would-help-transparency.html
Bank of England Financial Policy
Committee member  Donald Kohn  said banks should report balance
sheet quarterly averages rather than data for a single day to
improve transparency.  “Single-day data may not be indicative of the true
position of the firm,” Kohn said in a speech in London today.
That could be “because the circumstances of that particular day
caused the bank to adjust its risk positions in an atypical
fashion, or because it deliberately engaged in window dressing
to achieve a certain configuration for reporting purposes.”  Kohn, a former Federal Reserve vice chairman, is one of
nine members of the panel set up by the government to help
prevent a repeat of the financial crisis. Giving market
participants more information about banks and their risk
exposure is essential for financial stability, he said.  “The allocation of capital in our market-based economy and
the stability of the financial sector ultimately rest on the
decisions of private market participants,” Kohn said. “The
better informed those participants are, the more productive our
economy and the more stable our financial markets should be.
Improved, well-targeted transparency is an essential element.”  The FPC is being convened on an  interim basis , and its next
policy meeting is on Sept. 20. Its first meeting in June
produced six recommendations, including that banks take the
opportunity of “strong earnings” periods to build up capital.  Kohn said the committee is concerned about “backsliding”
as confidence returns and complex financial instruments re-
emerge. It will monitor instruments that complicate valuation in
addition to exchange-traded funds, which it noted at its last
policy meeting.  He said financial institutions and regulators have a
“legitimate concern” that making more information available in
the midst of a crisis could “make the situation more serious by
suggesting weaknesses in report institutions.”  Still, “in many respects the lack of accurate information
made the downturn worse,” he said. “Uncertainty helped the
crisis spread indiscriminately among good and bad institutions
and instruments.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  