-- 
New York City Mayor Cites ‘Rebirth and Revitalization’ of Lower Manhattan

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-09-06T15:55:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/new-york-city-mayor-cites-rebirth-and-revitalization-of-lower-manhattan.html
Lower Manhattan, devastated by the
terrorist attack that destroyed the World Trade Center 10 years
ago, has doubled its residential population, added 19 hotels and
invested $552 million in new parks, streets and water mains, New
York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg said.  “The rebirth and revitalization of Lower Manhattan will be
remembered as one of the greatest comeback stories in American
history,” Bloomberg told about 300 executives and political
leaders at a breakfast today marking the approach of the Sept.
11 anniversary.  The mayor took office on Jan. 1, 2002, while the World
Trade Center site still smoldered. His tenure has extended over
a time when “we didn’t know when -- or how -- our city would
ever recover,” he said.  Bloomberg, 69, serves as chairman of the  National 9/11
Memorial , slated to open during a 10th anniversary ceremony at
the site. It will feature two waterfalls and pools on the
original footprints of the twin towers.  Entitled “Reflecting Absence,” the memorial is surrounded
by granite walls bearing the 2,982 names of victims who perished
in two separate attacks on the towers, at the Pentagon and on an
airplane that crashed in Pennsylvania on Sept. 11, 2001.  Building Underway  A  memorial museum  will open next year on the 16 acres that
constituted the World Trade Center. Cranes at the site are
currently hoisting steel for One World Trade, a 1,776-foot-high
office tower; a second building, Four World Trade, and a transit
terminal designed by architect Santiago Calatrava-Valls.  John Whitehead, 89, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. co-
chairman who supervised planning and financing for the area’s
rebuilding as chairman of the Lower Manhattan Development Corp.
from 2001 to 2006, said he was most surprised that twice as many
people reside in the neighborhood now than 10 years ago.  “Almost every day back then I had my doubts, but it has
all come together finally,” he said. “The worst of it was at
the very beginning, when the site was still smoking, fire still
burned, and everybody was moving out because of the ashes and
the horror of it all.”  The mayor, founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP, spoke at a breakfast sponsored by the
Association for a Better New York, a civic organization
representing the city’s real estate industry.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  