-- 
Former News Corp. Staff Dispute James Murdoch’s Account of Phone-Hacking

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-09-06T15:26:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/news-corp-lawyer-says-hacking-review-wasn-t-full-probe.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  Deputy Chief Operating
Officer James Murdoch’s version of events surrounding phone-
hacking at the News of the World tabloid was disputed by former
News Corp. executives testifying to the U.K. Parliament.  Tom Crone, the News of the World’s lawyer until July, and
 Colin Myler , the newspaper’s former editor, said they told
Murdoch in 2008 about an e-mail that suggested other reporters
were implicated in phone-hacking. Crone said it was “absolutely
inconceivable” that the pair wouldn’t have explained this when
they met Murdoch to discuss a lawsuit settlement.  “I think everybody perfectly understood the seriousness
and significance of what we were discussing,” Myler told the
House of Commons Culture Committee in London today in a session
in which four witnesses were questioned for more than three
hours. “As far as I’m concerned there was no ambiguity.”  In July, Murdoch told the committee that he hadn’t been
told of evidence that illegality went beyond a single reporter,
and that he had understood that an outside probe by a law firm
had confirmed there was no wider wrongdoing.  Revelations in July that the News of the World intercepted
the voicemail of a murdered schoolgirl in 2002 prompted the
closure of Britain’s biggest-selling newspaper and forced News
Corp. to withdraw a takeover bid for  British Sky Broadcasting
Group Plc. (BSY)  Prime Minister  David Cameron  will be questioned by a
separate panel about his 2007 decision to hire a former News of
the World editor,  Andy Coulson , as his communications chief.  ‘For Neville’  Myler and Crone met with Murdoch for less than 15 minutes
in 2008 to discuss the settlement of a privacy complaint filed
by  Gordon Taylor , chief executive of the Professional
Footballers’ Association. They said today they told him the
company had to settle because Taylor’s lawyers had produced a
transcript of voice mails typed by a reporter at the newspaper
and marked “for Neville.”  Asked if he had told Murdoch that this appeared to be a
reference to Neville Thurlbeck, the paper’s chief reporter,
Crone replied, “I’ve got a feeling I probably did.”  James Murdoch  said that he stands by his testimony. Neither
Myler nor Crone told him that wrongdoing extended beyond
reporter  Clive Goodman  and private investigator  Glenn Mulcaire ,
he said in a statement.  “As I said in my testimony, there was nothing discussed in
the meeting that led me to believe that a further investigation
was necessary,” Murdoch said.  Law Firm Probe  Earlier, Jon Chapman, the former head of legal affairs at
News Corp.’s U.K. unit, said the company’s investigation into
phone hacking after a reporter’s arrest was never intended to be
a wide-ranging probe into wrongdoing.  A law-firm probe commissioned by the company was designed
to deal with an employment lawsuit filed by Goodman, Chapman
said. Chapman said his own review of e-mails didn’t find
evidence of illegal activity.  The review “was in the context of an employment tribunal
and not a criminal case,” Chapman said.  Murdoch told the committee on July 19 that the  law firm ’s
investigation was one of the three “pillars” the company
relied on during years of denials that wrongdoing went beyond a
single reporter. In written evidence released by the committee
today, News Corp. said an examination of e-mails represented the
only external probe of phone hacking that had taken place.  Goodman Letter  Chapman and Daniel Cloke, former human-resources director
for News Corp.’s U.K. unit, were questioned by the committee
about what steps they took to uncover the extent of phone
hacking after Goodman and Mulcaire were arrested in 2006. Both
men were later convicted and served jail sentences.  In a letter to Cloke appealing his dismissal, Goodman
claimed that hacking had been widespread and regularly discussed
at editorial meetings until Coulson banned references to it. He
also said Coulson and another News Corp. lawyer promised he
would keep his job if he kept quiet about others’ activities.  Cloke and Chapman were asked about their 2007 examination
of e-mails between News of the World executives and Goodman.
Chapman said he couldn’t recall specific e-mails that contained
evidence of other illegality.  “We were looking for voice-mail interception,” he said.
“We didn’t find anything that amounted to reasonable evidence
of illegal interception. No other illegal activity stood out at
the time.”  Dozen E-Mails  In written evidence released by the committee today,
Lawrence Abramson, the former partner at Harbottle & Lewis LLP,
the law firm commissioned by Chapman to review the e-mails, said
he had spoke to Chapman about questions regarding approximately
“a dozen e-mails.”  “Chapman explained and I accepted why those e-mails fell
outside the scope of what News International Ltd. had instructed
Harbottle & Lewis to consider,” Abramson said.  News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  blamed Harbottle & Lewis
at a July committee hearing for failing to uncover evidence of
widespread phone-hacking. Chapman today said Murdoch “didn’t
have his facts right.”  “I don’t think he had been briefed properly,” Chapman
said.  Chapman was asked about the difference between his written
evidence to the committee in 2009, when he said Goodman had been
paid “some way below the then 60,600 pound limit” to settle
Goodman’s unfair dismissal claim, and the company’s evidence
last month that he received 243,500 pounds ($388,000).  Chapman said that only 40,000 pounds had been compensation,
with the remainder made up of a year’s notice, worth 90,500
pounds, on top of a previous payment of a year’s salary
authorized by  Les Hinton , then the head of News International.  If the case had gone to court, “Goodman would have been
able to make a series of allegations in a public forum,’ Chapman
told lawmakers. “This was a pragmatic and commercial business
decision. Many companies pay out in employment claims of little
or no merit for pragmatic reasons.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 