-- 
Loans Yielding More Than Bonds for First Time Ever, Bank of America Says

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s
-- 
2011-09-06T20:36:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/loans-yielding-more-than-bonds-for-first-time-ever-bank-of-america-says.html
Loans are yielding more than high-
yield bonds for the first time amid recent “gyrations” in the
credit market, according to Bank of America Corp.  Leveraged-loans are yielding 9 percent after adjusting for
fixed-rate differentials and floors on the London interbank
offered rate, compared with 8.7 percent for U.S. high-yield
bonds, Oleg Melentyev and Christopher Hays, New York-based Bank
of America strategists, wrote in a Sept. 2 research report.  Loan yields have jumped on concern about a possible double-
dip recession and the  Federal Reserve ’s  pledge  to keep its
benchmark rate at a record low through at least mid-2013,
Melentyev said today in a telephone interview. Bonds typically
yield 100 basis points to 150 basis points more than loans, he
said. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “The -30bp gap between the two yields is the widest it has
ever been in history, and in fact the first observation ever
when loans are yielding more than bonds,” Melentyev and Hays
wrote in the report. “In a sense, investors are being paid to
be in a more senior asset class, which doesn’t make too much
sense in a long run.”  About 45 percent of outstanding loans have Libor floors,
which average 150 basis points, according to the report. Three-
month Libor, a rate banks charge to lend to each other,
increased for a 30th consecutive day to 0.336 percent for dollar
loans, the highest since Aug. 19, 2010, and the longest rising
streak since November 2005.  Price Gap  Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are a type of
speculative-grade debt ranked less than Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  In May 2007, the yield gap narrowed to zero when “we were
beginning to realize we were in for a significant slowdown” and
there was an “overhang” of leveraged buyout loans, Melentyev
said.  The average price of the S&P/LCD loan index is 89.4 cents
on the dollar, according to the report. That compares with 97
cents for high-yield bonds and represents the widest price gap
on record going back to 1997, Bank of America said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Idzelis in New York at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  