-- 
Obama Said to Seek More Than $300 Billion Package to Boost Jobs

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-09-07T15:56:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/obama-said-to-plan-more-than-300-billion-for-jobs-to-boost-u-s-economy.html
President  Barack Obama  plans to
propose sparking job growth by injecting more than $300 billion
into the economy next year, mostly through tax cuts,
infrastructure spending and direct aid to state and local
governments.  Obama will call on Congress to offset the cost of the
short-term jobs measures by raising  tax revenue  in later years.
This would be part of a long-term deficit reduction package,
including spending and entitlement cuts as well as revenue
increases, that he will present next week to the congressional
panel charged with finding ways to reduce the nation’s debt.  Almost half the stimulus would come from tax cuts, which
include an extension of a two-percentage-point reduction in the
payroll tax paid by workers due to expire Dec. 31 and a new
decrease in the portion of the tax paid by employers.  Obama is set to lay out his plans in an address to Congress
tomorrow as unemployment remains at 9.1 percent more than two
years after the official end of the worst recession since the
Great Depression. Payroll growth stalled last month.  The unemployment rate and the sluggish recovery will be
central issues as Obama runs for re-election next year. Former
Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , a leading Republican seeking
the party’s nomination to face Obama in November 2012, yesterday
offered his own 59-point economic plan, including tax cuts for
those making $200,000 or less a year. He and seven other
Republican candidates are scheduled to debate tonight in
 California .  Plan Previewed  The main components of Obama’s jobs plan, though not its
scale, have been largely telegraphed by the administration. For
weeks, people familiar with deliberations have said the White
House is considering tax incentives, infrastructure and
assistance to local governments. Obama has stressed construction
and tax cuts in recent public speeches  Obama has pressed Congress throughout the year to renew the
payroll tax holiday along with extended  unemployment benefits ,
which also expire Dec. 31. Backing for a reduction in the
employer contribution to the payroll tax has been under
consideration since at least June.  Obama’s jobs plan follows the contours of his $830 billion
2009 economic stimulus package, which also stressed tax cuts,
infrastructure spending and assistance to local governments.
Still, tax cuts would account for a larger portion of the
proposal he will lay out this week.  ’New Proposals’  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  refused to give
details of what the president will offer, saying at a briefing
yesterday that it would include “some new proposals that you
have not heard us talk about.”  Much of Obama’s plan may have trouble passing the U.S.
House, where leaders of the Republican majority have signaled
opposition to new spending that would add to the federal  budget
deficit . House Speaker John Boehner of Ohio and Majority Leader
 Eric Cantor  of  Virginia  released a letter to Obama yesterday
saying their objections to the 2009 stimulus, which they called
a “large, deficit-financed, government spending bill,” have
been validated by continued high unemployment.  Obama said in a Sept. 5 speech in  Detroit  that he would
challenge Republicans to support tax cuts, which a person
familiar with administration discussions said would be targeted
toward middle-class Americans to spur  consumer spending .  Local Government Aid  “You say you’re the party of tax cuts?” Obama said before
the annual Metro Detroit Central Labor Council rally. “Well
then, prove you’ll fight just as hard for tax cuts for middle-
class families as you do for  oil companies  and the most affluent
Americans.”  The direct aid to local governments would focus on halting
layoffs of teachers and first responders. Education will be a
theme in Obama’s address, and he will also propose as part of
his infrastructure program money for school construction. Some
of the infrastructure spending would go toward roads, bridges
and other surface transportation projects.  White House officials say they anticipate congressional
Republicans may go along with some of the tax cuts Obama is
seeking, including the extension of the  payroll tax  cut. Still,
they expect to meet Republican resistance to much of the
package.  Job Training  To address the problem of long-term unemployment, Obama
will likely propose a national program, modeled after a Georgia
initiative that allows workers who receive  unemployment
insurance  to train for jobs at businesses at no cost to the
employer. Obama, at a town-hall meeting in Atkinson,  Illinois ,
last month, called the Georgia Works initiative a “a smart
program.”  Obama also plans to propose measures to make it easier for
homeowners to refinance mortgages.  Obama will unveil a framework for the deficit reductions
next week, including changes to Medicare and Medicaid, in
addition to other cuts in contributions to military pensions and
farm subsidies.  After a partisan fight over the deficit and raising the
government’s debt limit took the country to the brink of
default,  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the U.S.’s credit rating to
AA+ from AAA on Aug. 5. The rating firm said the government is
becoming “less stable, less effective and less predictable.”
Even so, the government’s borrowing costs fell to record lows as
Treasuries rallied. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury
note fell from 2.56 percent on Aug. 5 to 1.97 percent yesterday.
The note added seven basis points to 2.05 percent today.  Top Rankings  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings affirmed their
top rankings on the U.S.  Concern over the economy has increased as growth weakened
during the first half of the year to its slowest pace of the
recovery and market pessimism has risen over the ramifications
of the European debt crisis.  Still, stocks rebounded from a four-day global slump that
drove valuations to the lowest level since 2009 following news
of Obama’s plans. The MSCI All-Country World Index surged 2.1
percent at 10:21 a.m. in  New York  and the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index jumped 1.7 percent.  Recent signs of economic weakness have led private
economists to raise forecasts for the  unemployment rate  next
year. The median forecast for unemployment during next year’s
fourth quarter, when the presidential election will be held, is
8.5 percent, according to 51 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News Aug. 2 through Aug. 10.  Since World War II, no U.S. president has won re-election
with a jobless rate above 6 percent, with the exception of
 Ronald Reagan , who faced 7.2 percent unemployment on Election
Day in 1984. The jobless rate under Reagan had come down more
than 3 percentage points during the prior two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 