-- 
Obama’s Weakness Leading to Republican Overreach: Ramesh Ponnuru

-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 
2011-09-06T00:00:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/obama-s-weakness-leading-to-republican-overreach-ramesh-ponnuru.html
President  Barack Obama  has never
looked more vulnerable. His poll numbers  keep dropping . The
economic news is still grim. And his team’s political sense
often seems to be missing.  Take the recent  report  that White House senior staff were
heartened by hearing historian Michael Beschloss tell them that
 Franklin D. Roosevelt  and  Ronald Reagan  had each won re-election
even though unemployment was high. If Obama’s aides really
believe these precedents are auspicious, they are kidding
themselves: Both the 1936 and 1984 elections followed very
strong economic growth.  Obama has never had to demonstrate great political skill in
his general-election races. During both of them, he was blessed
with good luck (a fringy opponent in his Senate race, and a
collapsing economy during his presidential run). Now is the
first time Obama has experienced this kind of adversity -- the
first time he has needed broad political support and not had it
for the asking. His response has been to flail. Almost nobody is
talking about Obama as a lock for re-election anymore. But maybe
the biggest advantage he has is that his weakness is tempting
Republicans to take risks with the election.  Ideology or Electability  In any presidential primary there’s a tension between the
voters’ desire for a candidate who can win the general election
and their desire for a candidate who shares their views --
between, in other words, ideology and electability. The more
beatable Obama looks, the more the balance for Republican voters
will tilt toward ideology and away from electability.  That doesn’t just mean they will be more likely to support
candidates such as  Michele Bachmann  and  Herman Cain , who will
have trouble winning votes from independents and Democrats. It
also means the terrain of the primaries will shift: The
candidates will place more emphasis on outflanking one another
on the right and less on showing they can win in November 2012.  Even if Obama were doing better, the Republican primary
would put a heavy weight on ideology. Whenever someone suggests
that a candidate can’t win, many conservatives retort that
people said that about Reagan, too. (What they forget is that
people also said it about  Barry Goldwater , and they were right.)
And much of the Republican Party has convinced itself that Bush-
era compromises bred political failure, a line of thought that
makes concerns about electability seem beside the point. Combine
these views with the natural inclination of people to think that
their ideas are more widely shared than they are, and the result
is a process where electability gets short shrift. Obama’s
weakness only reinforces this tendency.  Provocative Positions  Already the Republican primaries have seen candidates take
positions that will be hard sells in the fall of next year. Both
Bachmann and former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , for example,
want to abolish the Environmental Protection Agency.  Polls
suggest  that while the public doesn’t consider environmental
protection its top priority right now, it favors regulation and
trusts Democrats over Republicans on the issue. Texas Governor
Rick Perry has suggested that Social Security and Medicare are
unconstitutional and that they should be replaced by state-run
programs. There’s a reason no Republican candidate since 1964
has run on a platform anything like this one on entitlements:
Both programs are extremely popular.  Perry has also suggested that he disapproves of the New
Deal, seeing it as a moment when the federal government began to
exceed the constitutional limits of its power. He hasn’t said he
wants to undo the New Deal, but it’s not out of bounds for
Democrats to make the charge, given the importance he attaches
to constitutionalism.  In each of these cases, provocative positions have been met
by silence from rival candidates. Former Massachusetts Governor
Mitt Romney hasn’t come out in favor of abolishing the EPA or
getting rid of federal entitlement programs, but he hasn’t
denounced these ideas or even used them as an argument against
the electability of the candidates who have advanced them.
Evidently he believes either that the primary electorate doesn’t
think these positions are politically toxic, or that it doesn’t
consider electability a key concern.  Only the Faithful  If Republican voters had electability on their minds, they
would also want to see the candidates address issues that
concern the broader public: how to get wages growing again after
years when they stagnated even during periods of growth; and
what to replace Obama’s health-care reform with. But the
candidates feel no pressure from primary voters to outline plans
on those issues, and haven’t done so. Instead, they are focused
on issues -- such as the alleged threat of “sharia law” and the
heavy share of income taxes paid by the rich -- that are of
interest only to the party faithful.  It’s possible, of course, for a party to concentrate too
much on electability and to care more about gaining power than
about accomplishing anything with it. But at least a party that
cares about electability is looking outward, beyond its members.
Today’s  Republican Party  is more interested in refining its
doctrines than gaining converts. It has turned inward.  That is good news for Obama, at a time when he isn’t
getting much. The more his political standing falls, the more
Republicans will think they are sure to beat him. And the more
they think that, the less likely they will be to win.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  