-- 
Obama Should Support Tax Holiday, FTN’s Low Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-09-06T20:45:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/obama-should-support-tax-holiday-ftn-s-low-says-tom-keene.html
Policy makers should consider a tax
holiday on profits held overseas by U.S. companies to spur
growth in employment and gross domestic product, according to
Christopher Low, chief economist at FTN Financial.  Repatriation “is a terrific idea,” Low said during a
radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and
Ken Prewitt in  New York . “The key from a policy standpoint is
to keep growth positive by whatever means necessary until
households are comfortable with their debt levels, and can start
borrowing and spending again.”  Companies may use a reduction in taxes on repatriated
profits of as much as $700 billion to create jobs and spur
investment, according to a study by the Congressional Joint
Committee on Taxation. A National Bureau of Economic Research
study showed that most of the funds repatriated in 2004 during
the last tax holiday were used for dividends and share buybacks.  Legislation introduced in Congress in May by Representative
Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican, would allow companies to
repatriate profits at a 5.25 percent tax rate, below the current
35 percent corporate level and the same level offered in 2004.  U.S. payrolls were unchanged last month after an 85,000 gain
in July that was less than initially estimated, Labor Department
data showed Sept. 2 in  Washington . The median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey called for a rise of 68,000. The
 unemployment rate  was unchanged at 9.1 percent.  The Office of Management and Budget said in an update of
its economic forecasts through August that the jobless rate will
average 9.1 percent in 2011 and 9 percent next year. President
 Barack Obama  will address a joint session of Congress on Sept. 8
on his plans to boost jobs and accelerate growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  