-- 
October Rate-Cut Bet Shows U.S. Slump Spreading: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-09-06T23:52:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/october-rate-cut-prediction-shows-u-s-slump-spilling-over-mexico-credit.html
Mexico  will follow Brazil and  Turkey 
in cutting  interest rates  next month to help shield the economy
from a slowdown in the U.S., swaps trading shows.  Yields on futures contracts for October, known as TIIE,
sank nine basis points in the past month to 4.73 percent,
indicating traders expect central bank Governor Agustin Carstens
to lower the benchmark 4.5 percent rate when the board meets
Oct. 14. Those wagers signal a reversal for traders who expected
as recently as Aug. 25 that Carstens’s next move would be to
raise borrowing costs from a record low.  Concern the U.S. and  Europe  may be headed for recessions is
prompting investors to anticipate  developing countries  will
lower rates to shore up growth. Mexico’s central bank, the only
among major Latin American countries to hold off on raising
rates as the global economy recovered from the 2008 financial
crisis, said Aug. 26 it would consider “adjusting” policy if
the growth outlook worsened. Employment unexpectedly stagnated
in the U.S., Mexico’s biggest trade partner, last month.  “ Banco de Mexico  was very clear in its previous statement
that it would adapt to new circumstances,” said Alberto Bernal,
head of fixed-income research for Bulltick Capital Markets, in a
telephone interview from Bogota. “The bad news on the jobs
front increases that probability.”  In Brazil, traders are betting policy makers will reduce
their rate further after last week’s surprise 50-basis point cut
to 12 percent, while Chilean swaps are also pricing in the
possibility of a cut this year.  U.S. Contraction  The yield on Mexico’s benchmark bonds due in 2024 fell to a
one-week low on Sept. 2, when the U.S. reported no job growth in
the world’s biggest economy. Yields on the securities have
tumbled 56 basis points, or 0.56 percentage point, since the end
of July to 6.23 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  September could mark the start of a slump in the U.S., the
destination for 80 percent of Mexican exports, said  Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North America  at BNP Paribas in
New York. She predicts the  U.S. economy  will shrink at a 2
percent annual rate in the fourth quarter. Economists at
UniCredit Group and Mesirow Financial Inc. also say the U.S. is
at risk of tipping into recession two years after the last one
ended in June 2009.  The  European Central Bank  will probably cut interest rates
as the chance of a recession in the  euro zone  has risen to 50
percent, Mohamed El-Erian, who manages the world’s largest bond
fund as the chief executive officer of Pacific Investment
Management Co., said last week.  Mexico Outlook  Brazilian central bankers said in a statement following
their Aug. 31 rate decision that a “substantial deterioration”
in the global economy may be “prolonged,” slowing trade,
investment and credit flows to  Latin America ’s biggest economy.  Citigroup Inc. cut its 2011 global economic growth forecast
yesterday to 3.1 percent from 3.7 percent.  Mexico economists lowered their 2011 growth estimates for
the third time this year, according to a central bank survey
published Sept. 1. They predict gross domestic product will
expand 3.81 percent, down from a July forecast of 4.24 percent.
Latin America’s second-biggest economy grew 5.4 percent last
year, the fastest pace in a decade.  Slowing growth and tame inflation may lead Banxico, as
Mexico’s central bank is known, to reduce the benchmark rate,
said Javier Belaunzaran, who helps manage about 40 billion pesos
at Interacciones Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City.  Breakeven Rate  The annual inflation rate declined to 3.49 percent in
August from 3.55 percent last month, according to the median
estimate of 10 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The government
will publish the report on Sept. 8.  Inflation has hovered near the central bank’s 3 percent
target since reaching a five-year low of 3.04 percent in March.  “The economic situation has deteriorated a lot,”
Belaunzaran said in a telephone interview. “Inflation data is
staying well, well below expectations. The probability is
growing that they’ll” cut rates, he said.  The yield gap between inflation-linked debt due in 2013 and
similar-maturity fixed-rate bonds, a gauge of investor
expectations for consumer price increases, sank 56 basis points
in the past month to 369 yesterday, the lowest since June,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A press official from the central bank didn’t return phone
messages and an e-mail seeking comment.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  widened one basis point
to 216 at 7:38 p.m.  New York  time, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global index.  No ‘Imminent Risk’  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose seven basis points to 160, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The peso rose 0.2 percent to 12.5119 per  U.S. dollar .  A rate cut next month would be premature and is unlikely
from a central bank that tends to move “slowly,” said Eduardo Avila, an economist with Monex Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City.  “Banxico tends to work more slowly,” Avila said. “They
don’t announce something and then in the next meeting take
action. There isn’t a sense of imminent risk that justifies
lowering rates.”  Avila forecasts the economy will grow 4 percent this year
while inflation will end the year at 3.2 percent.  After scrapping predications for a rate increase on Aug.
26, traders forecast the reduction would come by November. They
moved up those wagers as U.S. recession concerns mounted and
after  Brazil  lowered rates.  “It’s a possibility that they will act” as soon as
October, Bulltick’s Bernal said. “The U.S. economy is just not
performing as it should. It’s too early for us to see job
creation plateau. It’s really worrisome.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  