-- 
Crude Gains on Forecast Stockpile Drop as Cyclone Builds in Gulf of Mexico

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-09-07T12:27:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/oil-rebounds-from-two-week-low-in-new-york-brent-premium-to-wti-at-record.html
Oil advanced from the lowest in more
than a week in  New York  as a weather system in the  Gulf of
Mexico  threatened supplies in the U.S., where production halts
because of storms have already reduced crude stockpiles.  West Texas Intermediate climbed as much as 1.6 percent
after the National Hurricane Center said a weather system over
southwestern Gulf of  Mexico  may become a tropical cyclone. An
Energy Department report tomorrow may show inventories declined
2.25 million barrels last week as Tropical Storm Lee shut
production in the gulf, a Bloomberg News survey of analysts
showed. Brent’s premium to U.S. prices narrowed from a record.  “The expectation that U.S. stock levels will be down due
to shut-ins in the Gulf of Mexico, and the missing barrels from
Libya, are keeping prices up,” said Gerrit Zambo, a trader at
 Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich. “Oil is stronger than all the
other markets around the world, so if there are signs the debt
crisis cannot be overcome, I see a bigger downside for oil. But
at the moment, oil is supported.”  Crude for October delivery gained as much as $1.40 to
$87.42 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $86.99 at 1:20 p.m. London time. The
contract yesterday settled at $86.02, the lowest since Aug. 26.
Prices have risen 17 percent in the past year.  Brent oil for October settlement added 33 cents to $113.22
on the ICE Futures Europe Exchange. The contract yesterday
increased $2.81 to $112.89. The European benchmark contract was
at premium of $26.23 to U.S. futures, compared with yesterday’s
record close of $26.87.  Gulf Output  About 60.5 percent of oil production and 41.6 percent of
natural gas output from the Gulf of Mexico has been halted after
Tropical Storm Lee passed through the region, the  Bureau of
Ocean Energy Management , Regulation and Enforcement said
yesterday.  The disturbance that started over the Bay of Campeche has a
60 percent chance of becoming a tropical cyclone in the next 48
hours, the National Hurricane Center  said  at 8 a.m. New York
time. The bay, where conditions are conducive for strong storms,
holds rigs and platforms owned by  Petroleos Mexicanos . The Gulf
of Mexico is home to 27 percent of U.S. oil output and 6.5
percent of the country’s natural gas production.  “When production is withdrawn the price will naturally
want to rise,” said  David Lennox , a resource analyst at Fat
Prophets in Sydney. “Unless there is significant damage to
fields it won’t be long-term. We are looking for WTI to trade
within the $80 to $90 range.”  Inventory Forecasts  The Energy Department is scheduled to release its weekly
stockpile report at 11 a.m. tomorrow in  Washington , a day late
because of the Labor Day holiday on Sept. 5.  Gasoline inventories probably slipped 1.45 million barrels
from 208.6 million barrels, according to the Bloomberg News
survey of analysts. Distillate-fuel supplies, a category that
includes heating oil and diesel, probably fell 200,000 barrels,
the survey shows.  Crude production in Libya slumped to 60,000 barrels a day
in July, according to the Paris-based  International Energy
Agency , after the revolt to end Muammar Qaddafi’s 42-year rule
disrupted pumping.  The North African nation, holder of the continent’s largest
reserves, won’t reach pre-war crude production levels of about
1.6 million barrels a day for at least 18 months, Bank of
America Corp. said in an e-mailed report today.  Estimates by  Libya ’s National Transitional Council that
output can be restored to about 600,000 barrels a day are
“optimistic,” Bank of America’s London-based head of
commodities research  Francisco Blanch  said in the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  