-- 
London Mayor Doesn’t See Need to Restrict Twitter in Riots

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-09-06T13:01:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/london-mayor-doesn-t-see-need-to-restrict-twitter-in-riots-1-.html
London Mayor Boris Johnson said he
doesn’t see a need for Britain to give police powers to restrict
social media such as Twitter Inc. during riots because the
information is often useful in quelling disturbances.  Johnson, testifying before the Parliamentary Home Affairs
committee, also said police aren’t pressing for greater latitude
to use rubber bullets or water cannons.  In August, U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron said the
government was considering whether to block social-networking
sites and message services to hamper looters and violence.
Johnson and Tim Godwin, acting commissioner of the Metropolitan
police, were questioned today by the committee about causes and
responses to last month’s riots in London and other English
cities, the worst since the 1980s.  “The view I’m getting, this is not seen as a clear benefit
for the police,” Johnson told the Parliamentary Home Affairs
Committee in London. “There are intel advantages to being able
to track this stuff.”  Police themselves use Twitter to communicate, or spread
messages, and blocking social media would be a “net negative,”
Godwin said.  Godwin and Johnson said police aren’t seeking additional
power to use water cannons or baton rounds, commonly known as
rubber bullets.  Prisons Not Hospitals  The baton rounds are reserved for situations where there is
“a threat to life within the crowd, and we don’t think we were
facing that situation,” Godwin said. “It makes me proud we
filled prison places rather than hospital beds, and that’s the
British way of policing.”  The baton rounds were authorized, but not used, he said.
Water cannons have never been used on mainland Britain.  Police were initially unprepared for the speed and scale at
which disorder spread, with 22 of 32 London boroughs facing
“serious disorder,” Godwin said.  “We were not expecting that level and the spread of
copycatting of sheer criminality,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  