-- 
Hong Kong’s Peg Raises Risk Real Estate Prices May ‘Roll Over,’ MGPA Says

-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-09-06T03:16:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/hong-kong-s-office-home-prices-may-decline-in-next-two-years-mgpa-says.html
Hong Kong ’s property market is
showing signs it may “roll over” as prices drop over the next
one or two years with the city’s currency peg linking it to the
risk of higher U.S.  interest rates , according to MGPA.  Prices of the city’s office buildings may decline as much
as 20 percent while home values may fall up to 30 percent during
that period, said John Saunders, Asia chief executive officer of
MGPA, a private-equity real estate investment firm that manages
$10 billion of assets in Asia and  Europe .  Hong Kong’s currency peg is creating a “massive”
inflation as it forces the city to follow low interest rates in
the U.S. even as it benefits from the economic growth in  China ,
Saunders said. The exchange rate regime is set to amplify
property market peaks and troughs when macroeconomic trends
reverse, he said.  “It’s got all the hallmarks of a market that’s about to
roll over,” Saunders, who’s based in Hong Kong, said in an
interview on Sept. 2. “We import all the growth from China,
then we pay for it with a monetary policy that’s designed to
drag the U.S. out of deflation and economic chaos. So it’s
massively inflationary.”  MGPA last year sold an office building at 181 Queen’s Road
Central that it had owned for about four years to Hong Kong and
Chinese wealthy individuals in multiple transactions, Saunders
said, declining to give details on the returns.  The Hang Seng Property Index of seven real estate stocks
dropped 1.3 percent as of 10:50 a.m. in Hong Kong trading,
declining for a third day.  Wrong Timing  Its $4 billion MGPA  Asia  Fund III now owns no property in
Hong Kong, where it had investment through a previous regional
fund, he said. It envisioned Hong Kong to be one of the four
geographical pillars alongside China,  Singapore  and Japan when
it started the nine-year fund in 2007, he added.  “We would love to spend some money in Hong Kong,” he said.
“But I just think the cycle timing is completely wrong right
now. My concern is we’re headed towards another 1994.”  Low interest rates sent Hong Kong office values to record
highs in early 1994. Prices of offices in landmark buildings
fell as much as 30 percent by February 1995, then Morgan Stanley
Asia Managing Director Peter Churchouse estimated. The decline
came after Hong Kong followed the U.S. to raise interest rates,
suppressing demand for housing and offices, and as China ordered
its banks to tighten credit.  Declining Home Sales  Signs of declines have already emerged in the housing
market where there are more recorded sales, said Saunders. He
cited as evidence waning interest in government land sales,
lower apartment transaction volumes and discounts from
developers after banks increased  mortgage rates  more
aggressively to offset their lending in yuan.  Home transactions in the city fell to a 30-month low in
July, while a land auction earlier last month missed surveyors’
forecasts. The HK$5.5 billion ($706 million) paid by a group
including Sino Land Co. and Kerry Properties Ltd. was 33 percent
below the median HK$8.25 billion and was the first and only bid.  MGPA has invested just less than 60 percent of capital in
its third Asia fund in Singapore, China and  Thailand , said
Saunders. It also has had investments in Singapore, Malaysia and
Japan through its earlier funds.  Middle-Class China  The firm in June  bought  a stake in Galleria Chengdu, a
shopping mall that opened last year in the capital of China’s
southwestern Chinese province of Sichuan, as it seeks to tap
rising consumerism among the young in a city with 12 million
people, he said.  “We would like to do more of the same, retail in tier-2
cities,” Saunders said. “It allows you to put your hands right
into the pockets of middle-class China.”  First-tier cities in China include wealthy urban centers
such as Shanghai, Beijing and Guangzhou, according to the
 National Bureau of Statistics . Provincial capitals are labeled
second-tier cities.  MGPA is negotiating acquisitions of several retail
properties in provincial capitals in China and office buildings
in  Japan , Saunders said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  