-- 
Hong Kong Land Auction Misses Analyst Estimates as Europe Woes Roil Stocks

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-09-06T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/hong-kong-sells-the-tseung-kwan-o-site-for-400-million-missing-estimates.html
A Hong Kong government land auction
yesterday raised less than analysts estimated for the third time
in succession as slumping global stocks and the city’s property
curbs weigh on the world’s most expensive real estate market.  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , the city’s biggest developer,
paid HK$3.12 billion ($400 million) for the residential plot in
the Tseung Kwan O district, said spokeswoman Brenda Wong. That
was below the lowest estimate of five analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, which ranged from HK$3.3 billion to $4.4 billion.  Hong Kong’s  government , which is boosting the supply of
land to try and curb a more than 70 percent surge in  home prices 
since early 2009, also sold two sites in August that missed
estimates as home price gains have stalled on concern the
economy is sliding into recession. The city’s benchmark  Hang
Seng Index (HSI)  has fallen 21 percent since its November peak.  “Property prices will start to decline soon and we are
likely to see that in the rest of the year,” said Yu Kam-hung,
a Hong Kong-based senior managing director for valuation and
advisory services in Greater  China  at CB Richard Ellis Group Inc.
“Prices will trend down by about 10 percent in the next two
years and I don’t rule out the chance that they may fall as much
as 20 percent in the worst case scenario.”  The price for the Tseung Kwan site was equivalent to
HK$3,934 a square foot, according to calculations by Centaline
Property Agency Ltd. The median estimate in the survey was for
the property to fetch HK$3.7 billion.  Less Capital Needed  Tseung Kwan O was the largest plot auctioned yesterday. A
site at  Yuen Long  sold for HK$361 million, while a property in
the Sai Kung district fetched HK$121.5 million, higher than the
combined HK$360 million analysts were expecting for the two
pieces of land in the New Territories. The Yuen Long site was
bought by a 50-50 venture between Paliburg Holdings Ltd. and
Regal Hotels International Holdings Ltd., said Donald Fan, chief
operating officer at Paliburg.  “There were more bids for the Yuen Long site as it’s
smaller and the capital required is less,” said Simon Lo, an
 executive director  for research and advisory at Colliers
International ( Hong Kong ) Ltd. “That’s why more small to
medium-sized developers can participate in the bidding.”  Including yesterday’s auction, the government sold 19 sites
through tender or auction in the current fiscal year that began
April 1 after pledging to provide more land for apartments to
counter rising home values. It sold 17 sites in the previous
financial year.  “Property developers have already snapped up quite a
number of sites since the government began rolling out more
sites for land auction last year,” said Lo. “Some of the
demand for land has already been satisfied. Property prices have
peaked.”  Sitting on Fence  August home transactions had the biggest drop since
February 2009, according to Land Registry figures. An index
tracking home prices compiled by Centaline fell in June and July,
the first consecutive monthly drop since December 2008.  “The last few weeks, the  property market  has come down a
little and transactions have virtually stopped,” Vincent Lo,
chairman of  Shui On Land Ltd. (272) , said in an interview yesterday.
Because of the volatility in global stock markets and because
property prices in the city have risen sharply, buyers plan “to
sit on the fence,” Lo said.  Hong Kong is the world’s most expensive place to buy a home,
55 percent pricier than  London , Savills Plc said in January.  The Hang Seng Property Index, a measure of the city’s
seven-biggest developers, fell 25 percent from its November peak.  Global shares have been declining on concerns  Europe ’s debt
crisis is worsening and that the U.S. economic recovery is
losing momentum. The MSCI World Index has fallen about 10
percent this year.  Cashed-Up  Demand for new homes in Hong Kong may be hurt as the wealth
of buyers from other parts of China has been affected by a
deteriorating global economic outlook and tighter credit
conditions in the country, Lee Wee Liat, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Samsung Securities Ltd., wrote in a Sept. 5 report.  Sun Hung Kai has the third-highest cash holdings among Hong
Kong developers at HK$5 billion.  Hang Lung Properties Ltd. (101) 
topped the list with about HK$27 billion, according to figures
tallied by Samsung Securities, followed by billionaire Li Ka-
shing’s  Cheung Kong  (Holdings) Ltd., which has HK$9.1 billion.  Cheung Kong paid HK$6.27 billion in a tender for a site in
the city’s North Point district, the government said Aug. 25.
The price was below the low end of estimates which ranged from
HK$6.47 billion and HK$9.07 billion in a survey by the English-
language newspaper the  South China Morning Post .  A site in the Sha Tin district sold at an Aug. 9 government
auction for 33 percent below estimates after global stock
markets were roiled by the U.S. debt downgrade and concerns
about European debt. A group including Sino Land Co. and  Kerry
Properties Ltd. (683)  bought the site with the only bid at the auction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  