-- 
Orascom Construction Misses Estimates After Tax Rate Increase

-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 
2011-09-06T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/orascom-construction-misses-estimates-after-tax-rate-increase.html
Orascom Construction Industries (OCIC) , the
Eygptian company that proposes reorganizing around its two main
businesses of fertilizer production and construction, reported
quarterly profit that missed analysts’ estimates after an
increase in its corporate  tax rate .  Second-quarter net income rose to $165.2 million (985.4
million Egyptian pounds) from $144 million a year earlier,
driven by increased fertilizer sales and prices and a growing
construction backlog, the Cairo-based company said in an e-
mailed statement today. That compared with the $205 million
median estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Sales rose 9.8 percent to $1.47 billion, the company said.
Orascom said its corporate tax rate rose to 25 percent from 20
percent.  The builder, which will pay a cash dividend of $1.10 per
share in the fourth quarter, is in the process of becoming a
holding company as it seeks to reorganize its construction and
fertilizer businesses into two separate entities.  Nassef Sawiris, chairman and chief executive officer of
 Orascom Construction , said “fertilizer activity” boosted
profit in the second quarter and predicted continued growth.
“Fertilizers will be quite strong for the next 12 months on the
back of high corn and wheat prices,” Sawiris said in a
telephone interview yesterday before the results were released.  Fertilizer Unit  Orascom’s fertilizer group sold about 1.17 million tons of
nitrogen-based fertilizers during the quarter, the company said.
Ammonia and calcium ammonium nitrate prices have remained firm
throughout the year on “robust demand” from  North America  and
 Europe , according to its statement.  OCI Nitrogen’s expansion of a calcium ammonium nitrate line
in the Netherlands is “on track” for completion in early 2012
and will add about 300,000 tons, or 25 percent, of additional
capacity, the company said in the statement. The unit,
previously called Royal DSM, before the end of the year will
restart a 30,000-ton melamine plant in Geleen, which has been
shut down since 2008, Orascom said.  Sorfert  Algeria , the Algerian unit, is scheduled to enter
commercial production before the end of the year. Sofert will
add 1.2 million tons of urea and 0.8 million tons of ammonia to
the company’s fertilizer group annually.  Construction Business  In the U.S., Pandora Methanol LLC is expected to start
ammonia and methanol production in the fourth quarter and the
second quarter of 2012, respectively, it said. Pandora will add
250,000 tons of ammonia and 750,000 tons of methanol production
capacity, according to the statement.  “Our organic growth is coming to an end,” Sawiris said,
referring to the company’s fertilizer business. “We have done
most of the  capital spending  and in the next six months we will
add 2.75 million tons of production, which is actually roughly
60 percent growth from our current capacity.”  The company’s construction business added $1 billion in new
awards in the second quarter, including 80 percent from outside
of  Egypt , which protected it from recent political unrest in the
country.  “The economy is slowing down,” Sawiris said.
“Selectively some infrastructure opportunities continue to
exist.”  Orascom yesterday said its board of directors approved its
transformation into a holding company. The proposal will be put
forward to shareholders in an extraordinary general meeting,
according to today’s statement.  “It clearly creates two divisions in the company with
separate boards, separate financials,” Sawiris said. “It does
create two standalone strong companies that have opportunities
to explore their own growth.”  Shares of Orascom rose 1.9 percent to 244.33 Egyptian
pounds in Cairo yesterday, valuing the company at 50.6 billion
pounds ($8.48 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mahmoud Kassem in Cairo at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  