-- 
Osama bin Laden Fulfilled His One True Ambition: Noah Feldman

-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 
2011-09-06T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/osama-bin-laden-fulfilled-his-one-true-ambition-noah-feldman.html
Here is a bet about the decade since
Sept. 11: Historians are going to be mystified by it.  First, the U.S. won the Cold War -- or at least it appeared
to. Then, like the U.K. initiating the Industrial Revolution at
the height of its global dominance, the U.S. jump-started the
Information Revolution. A decade after the  Berlin Wall  came
down, the U.S. seemed poised for another century of global
domination through a combination of hard and soft power. We
could even afford an extended legal fight over who the next
president was going to be.  Now, another 10 years on, the U.S. remains the most
significant superpower -- but its position looks increasingly
shaky. Its hard power took a hit through the realization that it
couldn’t, in fact, take over cantankerous countries and turn
them into thriving democracies, no matter how much money was
spent or how many noble American lives were sacrificed. China is
rising, and U.S. willingness to defend  Taiwan  by force of arms -
- once the centerpiece of the U.S. Pacific policy -- is
increasingly in doubt.  As for American soft power, forget about it (or if you
prefer, fuggedaboudit). Always a subtle idea that depended upon
the theory that culture follows the sword, the very notion now
looks like a relic of a more confident age. Those today who
preach the benefits of soft power sound very much unlike its
originator: Joseph Nye. For the Harvard University professor of
government and former senior Defense Department official, the
theory was an adjunct to power from the barrel of a gun. Today,
its expositors sound more like they think soft power is a
substitute for the real thing.  Eyes Averted  What happened? The short answer is that Sept. 11 did. From
the standpoint of future historians, the U.S. took its eye off
the ball. (To be clear: the ball is  China .) Instead of directing
attention to the only fast-growing economic power that also has
major geostrategic ambitions, the U.S. spent 10 years obsessed
with Islam.  When it all began, U.S. President  George W. Bush , on the
verge of invading Iraq, didn’t  know  the difference between
Shiite and  Sunni Muslims . Today, every minor television
personality can lecture on ancient feuds in the  Middle East .
Journalists covering the uprising against Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad note that he is an Alawi Muslim and that the
Sunnis who hate him may have  Salafi  sympathies. A few close-
reading Americans can even tell Pashtun from Tajik from Uzbek.  Islam and Democracy  As a sometime adviser to U.S. officials and to Iraqis
drafting early versions of their constitution, I was one of the
people trying to learn fast and apply what I was learning to
make the best of a bad situation. I still believe that some of
what was accomplished in  Iraq  was valuable. Iraqis definitively
opted for democracy, with all its flaws -- making them the first
large Arab state to do so. Their constitution demonstrates the
compatibility of Islam and democracy.  At the time, this was innovative. Now it seems like common
sense. But was all this hard-earned knowledge worth getting? Put
another way, did the years spent in Iraq and  Afghanistan  serve
the U.S. national interest?  The historians, I fear, are likely to think not. Jihadist
terrorism needed to be addressed. Yet even mainstream, non-
radical Islam demands self-defensive jihad against a non-Muslim
invader. Given this, historians will note that it was probably
not ideal to address the al-Qaeda threat by invading Muslim
lands -- especially if the goal was to win hearts and minds.  World Dominance  Oil will always seem like a valid concern for a superpower.
But the historians of the future will notice that Afghanistan
has none of this commodity and that Iraq under  Saddam Hussein 
never stopped selling the stuff at a reasonable market price.
Above all, historians are going to be confused about why the
U.S. was so cavalier about protecting its position of
unquestioned world dominance.  Being No. 1 isn’t merely a feel-good proposition. The
status of the dollar as the preferred reserve currency is a
direct benefit of global hegemony. As we all now know now -- and
as historians of the future will teach their wide-eyed freshmen
-- printing the global reserve currency is an extraordinary
financial advantage.  Some of us used to envy  Saudi Arabia . Any time it seemed
even slightly unstable,  oil prices  would rise. The increase, in
turn, would strengthen the Saudi regime: a perpetual-motion
machine of oil-rigged stability. Now we know the same is true
(for the moment) of America. Global economic instability driven
by, say, U.S. political turmoil? The result is a flight to
quality that makes it cheaper for the U.S. to borrow. Top that,
sons of Saud!  Real Threat  The question, then, on which a million future midterms will
turn and a thousand pinhead dissertations will dance is how the
attacks of Sept. 11 brought the U.S. foreign-policy
establishment -- including the very people who persuaded  George H.W. Bush  not to order an attack on  Baghdad  during the  Gulf War 
of 1991 -- to decide that the most important threat facing the
U.S. was Islamic terrorism.  Part of the answer is that the threat was real.  Osama bin Laden  and his coterie were creative, effective and brutal. They
showed that just a few people willing to die could wreak
substantial havoc on an unprepared liberal democracy. But this
won’t do to explain the breadth and depth of the U.S. response.
Hardening our targets was wise. Wasting untold millions of
person-hours in pointless airline-security lines (beware the 3-
ounce deodorant) can be explained as an unavoidable side effect
of bureaucracy and a placebo for our understandable worries.  Thinking Clearly  But something more is needed to make sense of our
adventures abroad. A deeper answer lies in the reality of trauma
as a force that can make it hard to think clearly. I distinctly
remember the post-Sept. 11 comment of a brilliant, rational and
sophisticated close friend (as it happens, of Muslim origin)
whose pregnant spouse worked downtown. “I feel like someone
tried to kill my wife,” he said.  That painful -- and accurate -- sentiment was felt broadly.
 Bin Laden  tried to kill the U.S. president and his family. The
vice president (remember him?) was in the White House. The 3,000
Americans of all backgrounds who were murdered were stand-ins
for all of our family members. New York was a stand-in for
America. In the wake of this trauma, infinitely repeated on
television, thinking straight was barely an option. We could
have treated bin Laden as a minor figure in an obscure terrorist
network. We could have gambled that, after being chased from
power, the Taliban wouldn’t harbor al-Qaeda again. We might have
opted to contain Saddam, an evil man whose policies we had
basically helped to shape. But, moved as we were, we could
hardly imagine these things.  Bin Laden’s true goal was to change the course of history.
He did.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University , is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at
 noah_feldman@harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
David Shipley at   djshipley@bloomberg.net  