-- 
Osborne Says Deficit Cuts Pave Way for Bank of England ‘Monetary Activism’

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-09-07T08:54:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/osborne-says-deficit-cuts-pave-way-for-bank-of-england-monetary-activism-.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said his five-year program to eliminate Britain’s budget
deficit has provided space for the Bank of England to practise
“monetary activism” to keep borrowing costs down.  The plan for the biggest cuts in public spending since
World War II is “flexible enough” to withstand economic shocks
even as growth struggles to gather momentum, Osborne said in a
speech last night to Lloyd’s of London, the world’s oldest
insurance market. He suggested government growth forecasts will
be lowered.  The U.K. has “a plan for fiscal responsibility” that was
introduced “so that monetary activism can allow  interest rates 
to stay lower for longer,” Osborne said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. said two days
ago the  Bank of England  may restart its quantitative easing
program by buying bonds as early as this week as the economic
recovery weakens and bank-funding costs increase. Governor
 Mervyn King  needs permission from Osborne to do so.  The pound yesterday slipped below $1.60 for the first time
since July 13 and was trading at $1.5998 as of 9:51 a.m. in
London, up 0.4 percent on the day.  Government bonds  extended
yesterday’s declines, pushing up yields. The 10-year gilt yield
rose 5 basis points to 2.34 percent.  Osborne acknowledged the economy is expanding more slowly
than predicted in March, suggesting the  Office for Budget
Responsibility  may cut its forecast of 1.7 percent growth in
2011 when it publishes its economic and fiscal outlook Nov. 29.  Reappraisal  The Bank of England lowered its growth forecast last month
to 1.5 percent from 1.9 percent and the average of independent
forecasts compiled by the Treasury is for 1.3 percent.  “While we have all had to revise down our short-term
expectations over recent weeks, the only people who should be
fundamentally re-examining their view of the world are those who
thought that this time was different,” Osborne said.  The central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee starts a two-
day policy meeting today, a month after some members debated
whether the economy needs more support. Deutsche Bank AG Chief
Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  said Sept. 5 that conditions
in the stock and bond markets are reminiscent of the financial
crisis of late 2008, when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
collapsed, triggering a round of global stimulus.  ‘Ahead of the Curve’  Osborne said the U.K. has been “ahead of the curve,”
allowing borrowing costs to stay low relative to other European
countries. The chancellor is due to meet International Monetary
Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  and other finance
ministers from Group of Seven nations at the end of the week.  “We had an emergency budget last summer on our own terms -
- not this summer on the market’s terms -- unlike many other
countries,” Osborne said.  Concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening and global
economic growth is slowing has sent Europe’s Stoxx 600 Index
down 15 percent since the end of July. In the U.S., where the
S&P 500 Index has fallen 9.2 percent, the slowdown prompted some
Federal Reserve officials to favor “more substantial” action
to aid growth at their Aug. 9 meeting.  The Bank of England bought 200 billion pounds ($319
billion) of government debt in a program that ended in early
2010.  Adam Posen  was the only policy maker to vote for further
asset purchases at last month’s meeting, continuing a push he
began in October 2010.  Osborne so far has refrained from expressing a view on
whether the Bank of England should seek his permission to expand
the program. Business Secretary Vince Cable called on the
central bank in July to expand  money supply  if demand continues
to falter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  