-- 
Toshiba Shares Decline on Report It May Buy Shaw’s Stake in Westinghouse

-- B y   R y a n   W o o
-- 
2011-09-06T09:44:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/toshiba-falls-on-report-company-may-buy-shaw-group-s-stake-in-westinghouse.html
Toshiba Corp. (6502) , Japan’s biggest maker
of nuclear reactors, fell to the lowest in more than two years
in Tokyo trading after the Wall Street Journal said the company
may buy  Shaw Group Inc. (SHAW) ’s stake in Westinghouse Electric Co.  The shares slumped 5.1 percent to close at 297 yen, the
lowest since April 2, 2009. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average
declined 2.2 percent.  Toshiba, the majority stakeholder of Westinghouse, is in
talks to buy out Shaw Group’s 20 percent holding in the
Pittsburgh-based company, the Journal reported, citing people it
didn’t identify. Talks are still under way and a deal may be
announced as early as today, according to the newspaper. Keisuke Ohmori, a Toshiba spokesman, declined to comment on the report.  “Assuming the news is true, the market is estimating that
Toshiba may need to raise about 80 billion yen ($1.05 billion)
worth of funds for the buyout,” Ikuo Matsuhashi, a managing
director in Goldman Sachs Group Inc., wrote in a Japanese-
language note today. “People might interpret this as Shaw Group
exercising a  put option  because they’re downgrading their mid-
term outlook for nuclear power business.”  Toshiba acquired a 77 percent stake in Westinghouse for
$4.16 billion in October 2006. Shaw Group, a  Baton Rouge ,
Louisiana-based engineering and construction business, paid
$1.08 billion for its share, raising the money though a private
placement. Japan’s IHI Corp. bought the remaining 3 percent.  Toshiba’s Stake  Kazatomprom, Kazakhstan’s state nuclear company, bought a
 10 percent  share in Westinghouse from Toshiba a year later,
reducing the Japanese company’s holding to 67 percent.  IHI is currently not in discussions with Toshiba on its
Westinghouse holding, Keiichi Sakamoto, a spokesman at the
Tokyo-based heavy machinery maker, said by telephone. IHI was
formerly known as Ishikawajima-Harima Industries Co.  Shaw Group’s stake in Westinghouse is held by its Nuclear
Energy Holdings unit, which partly financed the investment by
issuing limited recourse yen-denominated bonds, according to a
description in the company’s June 28 earnings  statement .  To mitigate the  currency risk , the unit “simultaneously
entered into a yen-denominated put option agreement with
Toshiba, which provides NEH the option to sell all or part of
its equity interest to Toshiba and receive a predetermined yen-
denominated price for the shares,” Shaw said, without giving
the price.  Shaw Group, which posted a $70 million loss in the three
months ended May, including contributions from Westinghouse,
said its earnings often reflect swings in the dollar’s value
against the yen. The company’s shares fell 5.7 percent to $21.83
on Sept. 2 in New York trading. U.S. markets were closed
yesterday for Labor Day.  Global Nuclear Review  Toshiba has slumped 41 percent since the record earthquake
and tsunami that struck  Japan  on March 11 wrecked Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. The company helped build
four of the six reactors at the site. Shaw Group has declined 44
percent in the same period.  The worst atomic accident since Chernobyl in the former
 Soviet Union  in 1986 has prompted a worldwide safety review of
existing and planned nuclear power plants, with countries from
 China  to  Germany  either delaying or scaling back programs.  China, building more reactors than any other nation,
suspended approval of new plants after the disaster and said it
will accelerate the development of renewable sources such as
solar and wind energy. Germany last month decided against re-
starting eight reactors to counter possible power shortages in
 Europe ’s biggest economy this winter.  ‘Outlook Grim’  “The outlook for the nuclear power business looks grim,”
Hiroyasu Nishikawa, an analyst at Cosmo Securities Co. in  Tokyo ,
said today by telephone. “In the U.S. and Europe, plans to
build nuclear plants will likely remain in the doldrums for a
while,” because of safety concerns.  Shaw may hold a similar view on the future of nuclear
power, which could prompt it to sell its stake in Westinghouse,
Nishikawa said.  Toshiba is counting on a backlog of orders from China,
while hedging its bet on nuclear power with moves into other
energy businesses, including solar power and smart-grid
equipment for electricity networks. China has approved 34
reactors, of which 26 are under construction, according to the
 World Nuclear Association .  On May 10, Toshiba signed a preliminary deal with
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based power-plant equipment maker
 Babcock & Wilcox Co. (BWC)  to develop thermal and solar technologies.
Nine days later it announced a $2.3 billion deal to buy
Landis&Gyr AG, a Swiss electronic-metering company.  Toshiba said in a presentation to investors in May that it
plans to win 39 reactor orders, generating 1 trillion yen in
revenue from it nuclear business in the year ending March 2016,
while warning about possible delays in approval of new
construction projects. The company cited existing projects in
China and the U.S. and demand from  developing countries  such as
Turkey and  Vietnam .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Woo in Singapore at 
 rwoo5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  