-- 
Most Incumbents in 30 Years May Lose

-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 
2011-09-06T17:50:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/most-incumbents-in-30-years-may-lose-seats.html
Brad Sherman and Howard Berman have
served together in Congress for the past 15 years, Democrats
from neighboring southern  California  districts with a lot in
common. That seems about to end.  The California commission that redrew congressional
district lines put their homes in the same district. Unless
courts reject the map or one of them runs and wins elsewhere,
either Sherman or Berman will leave Congress next year in
retirement or in defeat.  With 18 states done or almost done with the once-a-decade
process of redrawing congressional district lines, the
likelihood is strong that more sitting House members will be
forced into face-offs than in the past 30 years.  “Redistricting is  term limits  by another name,” Michael
McDonald, a political scientist at  George Mason University  in
Fairfax, Virginia, said in a telephone interview.  In the maps drawn so far, at least 13 districts in
California, Georgia, Illinois,  Iowa ,  Louisiana ,  Michigan  and
 North Carolina  are being reshaped in a way that put the homes of
two incumbents into the same territory. Some of those House
members have decided to run for another seat and others have yet
to say whether they’ll run at all.  Two more such pairings are expected but not yet set in
 Massachusetts  and  New Jersey , and more are probable in the 25
states that aren’t far along in the remapping process, including
 Pennsylvania  and  Ohio .  Seven states with small populations have a single, at-large
House seat.  Previous Cycles  A decade ago, post-Census redistricting led to 10
incumbent-versus-incumbent matchups: four in the 2002 primary
elections, four more in the 2002 general election and two in
2004, after a redo of district lines in  Texas . At least three
incumbents chose not to run after being paired against
colleagues in reconfigured districts.  Incumbents ran against each other in four primary elections
and five general election contests in 1992. A total of 11 races
pitted incumbents against each other in 1982.  “It’s every incumbent’s worst nightmare, because there’s
no tougher challenger than someone who’s also an incumbent,”
Tim Storey, a senior fellow at the  National Conference of State
Legislatures  in Denver, said in a telephone interview.  If California’s new commission-drawn map stands, six
incumbents are likely to face each other in 2012 primary
elections now that Grace Napolitano has decided to run for an
open seat rather than against fellow Democratic incumbent Linda Sanchez.  There’s a possibility that Republican Jerry Lewis and
Democrat Joe Baca could face each other in California’s general
election, although Lewis, 76, hasn’t said whether he plans to
run for an 18th term or where he’d run. In addition, two
incumbent-against-incumbent contests are shaping up in Illinois,
one in Iowa and one in Louisiana.  Michigan Squeeze  In Michigan, which is losing one seat, Republican mapmakers
paired Democrats Gary Peters and Sander Levin in a suburban
Detroit congressional district that would favor Levin. Peters
may end up running in an adjacent and more Republican-leaning
district.  Georgia , which is gaining a seat, may lose an incumbent
because the Savannah home of Democrat John Barrow was attached
to the territory represented by Republican Jack Kingston.  Because members of Congress don’t have to live within the
boundaries of their districts, Barrow can run in the redrawn
12th District with a changed electorate.  Under the new configuration, which still must be signed
into law and then pass federal muster, black voters, who tend to
be Democratic-leaning, would comprise 34 percent of the
population, down from 43 percent.  Zero-Sum Game  Every 10 years, the 435 House seats are reallocated so that
representation reflects population changes.  It’s a zero-sum game in which high-growth states gain at
the expense of slow-growth states.  For partisan line-drawers, redistricting provides a rare
opportunity to end the careers of political opponents they
couldn’t beat at the ballot box.  In most states, politicians make the decisions. Some
portion of the estimated $2.4 billion that candidates for
governor and state legislature raised in the 2010 election cycle
was spent with redistricting in mind.  “It always has been political and it always will be
political,” said Harley Staggers Jr., a former Democratic
representative from West  Virginia  who lost his seat in Congress
in 1992 after a revised map put him in the same district as
another Democratic incumbent.  `Ton of Money’  Mark Nevins, a Philadelphia-based Democratic consultant,
said in a telephone interview that his best advice for
incumbents paired against colleagues is to “raise a ton of
money.”  “Know that you’re going to have your work cut out for you,
and start raising a ton of money because you’re going to need
the financial resources to communicate with an entirely new set
of constituents,” Nevins said.  In anticipation of a possible matchup with another
incumbent, some lawmakers have intensified their campaign fund
raising. Sherman raised $824,000 in the first half of this year,
almost three times as much as he collected in the first half of
2009.  Sherman’s campaign began July with $3.7 million, the
second-highest total in the 435-member House. Berman’s fund
raising rose to $580,000 in the first half of 2011 from $354,000
in the first half of 2009, a 64 percent increase.  Spielberg, Katzenberg  Berman is getting help from  Steven Spielberg , Jeffrey
Katzenberg and David Geffen, the co-founders of the film company
 DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA)  Berman is a senior member of the
Judiciary Committee, which has jurisdiction over intellectual
property issues that are important to the entertainment
industry.  Tom Latham, an Iowa Republican, raised $1 million in the
first six months of this year, more than three times the
$299,000 that he raised during the first half of 2009. He is
challenging Democratic Representative Leonard Boswell, who
raised $336,000 in the first half of 2011, up 9 percent from
2009.  Charles Boustany, a Louisiana Republican, raised $709,000
in the first six months of this year, compared with the $377,000
he raised in the first half of 2009. Boustany was paired with
freshman Republican Jeff Landry under a congressional map that
reduced Louisiana’s districts from seven to six. Landry raised
$292,000 in the first half of this year.  A new Florida map may pair some incumbents after voters in
2010 approved a state constitutional amendment restricting the
extent to which the lines can be drawn based on political
factors. “The Florida changes could be similarly dynamic and
cause as much turmoil as California,” Storey said.  Other States  A New Jersey commission that is drawing a new, 12-district
map probably will combine the constituencies of one Democrat and
one Republican, although it’s not yet clear which two.  In  Illinois , Democrats in charge of drawing an 18-district
map reshaped the lines to draw several Republicans into
districts with other Republicans or into heavily Democratic
districts they couldn’t possibly win.  Republicans call it an unfair “partisan gerrymander” and
are contesting the map in court.  In Republican-controlled Pennsylvania, which is losing one
of its 18 seats, junior Democrats Jason Altmire and Mark Critz
probably will be paired in one district.  Republicans also control the line-drawing in Ohio, which is
losing two seats from a delegation that currently includes 13
Republicans and five Democrats. Democrat Dennis Kucinich is so
convinced his Cleveland-based district will be merged with
another Democratic district that he is considering running in
Washington state.  Massachusetts Pairing  In Massachusetts, which is also losing one seat, the
Democratic-controlled legislature must pair two Democrats,
perhaps Stephen Lynch and Bill Keating, because that party holds
all 10 seats.  North Carolina will still have 13 seats after
redistricting. Republicans controlled the line-drawing process
and arranged the map to shift four Democratic incumbents into
two districts, although they won’t be running against one
another.  California’s Problem  California’s delegation will be unchanged, with 53 seats.
The absence of politics is causing problems there for
politicians because an independent commission ignored current
boundary lines when deciding where to put the new lines.  “The previous redistricting was very much an
incumbent-friendly one, where all of them got protected,”
said Charles S. Bullock, author of “Redistricting: The Most
Political Activity in America.”  “Now you have a group that comes along that pays no
attention at all to incumbents,” Bullock, a political science
professor at the  University of Georgia  in  Athens , said in a
telephone interview.  As a result, Berman and Sherman are among the probable
colleague competitors for 2012.  Sherman, whose office declined interview requests,
represents almost 60 percent of the people in the new district.
His campaign released an internal poll showing him leading
Berman.  Berman issued a news release saying, “My home is in the
30th Congressional District, and that is where I plan to run for
re-election.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  