-- 
P.J. Harvey Wins U.K. Barclaycard Mercury Prize for Best Album

-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 
2011-09-07T01:00:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/p-j-harvey-wins-u-k-barclaycard-mercury-prize-for-best-cd-beating-adele.html
P.J. Harvey won the 2011  Barclaycard
Mercury Prize  for best British or Irish album last night,
beating other artists including Adele, Elbow and  Anna Calvi .  The singer-songwriter, 41, is the first person to twice
receive the U.K.’s top musical award, which started in 1992. Her
CD “Let England Shake,” inspired by war and boosted by good
reviews, was the favorite in betting.  A decade ago, she was the first female Mercury winner with
“Stories From the City, Stories From the Sea,” a record based
on her affection for  New York .  “It’s really good to be here this evening,” she told the
audience in London’s Grosvenor House hotel. Harvey was on tour
and unable to attend when she last won on Sept. 11, 2001, “in
Washington D.C., watching the Pentagon burning from my hotel
window. So much has happened since then,” she said.  The winning album, on Island Records, is experimental  rock 
with greatest resonance in the U.K., featuring state-of-the-
nation titles such as “The Glorious Land,” “England” and
“The Last Living Rose.” Harvey sings: “Take me back to
beautiful England/ and the gray, damp filthiness of ages.” The
judges said the CD is “gripping and profound.”  The Mercury has often been given to new or non-commercial
acts and pits different genres against one another, ranging from
folk and jazz to hard rock and classical. The winner receives
20,000 pounds ($32,310), although the boost from album sales can
be worth much more.  The 12 shortlisted albums racked up an additional 400,000
sales between the list being announced in July and the ceremony,
the U.K. Official Charts Co. said in an e-mail yesterday.  Musical Quality  The award focuses on musical quality and doesn’t take into
account sales, media profile or live performances, according to
a statement by the judges, a mixture of critics and music
industry figures. Commercial acts such as Adele, Amy Winehouse
and  Robbie Williams  have often lost out to cutting edge
performers such as Harvey.  All of the acts performed at the ceremony apart from Adele,
who apologized and said she was temporarily unable to sing
because of a bad throat infection.  While the Mercury judges are known for their surprise
choices, this is the second straight year that the favorite has
won. Last year, London band the xx triumphed with its debut CD
of understated indie rock. There were surprise winners in 2009
(Speech Debelle), 2008 (Elbow) and 2007 (Klaxons).  Information:  http://www.pjharvey.net/  and
 http://www.mercuryprize.com/   (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section of
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  London  at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 