-- 
Pandit ‘Globality’ Goal Imperiled as Economic Growth Stagnates

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-09-06T23:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/pandit-globality-goal-imperiled-as-citigroup-sees-slower-economic-growth.html
Vikram Pandit, who oversaw  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ’s recovery with the help of a $45 billion government
bailout, faces a profit squeeze as he adds staff and branches
outside the U.S. amid a global economic slump.  The bank, which gets more than half of its profit from
emerging markets, could see earnings stagnate next year if U.S.
growth stays at about 1 percent and Chief Executive Officer
Pandit doesn’t cut expenses, according to Charles Peabody, an
analyst at Portales Partners LLC. Net income may be $10.8
billion, 31 percent less than the $15.7 billion average estimate
of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, Peabody said.  “Their operating margins, their efficiency ratios, are
probably going to deteriorate in the short run because they need
to maintain some level of investment,” said Peabody, who is
based in New York. “There’s no question in my mind that people
have to make some adjustments to their earnings estimates.”  Investor concern that the U.S. economic recovery has
stalled and markets such as  Brazil , India and China are cooling
has helped push Citigroup shares down 41 percent this year.
That’s more than global rivals such as  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and
 Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , both based in  London , which saw their
shares fall 22 percent and 25 percent respectively.  The economic slowdown could impede what Pandit, 54,
described in a  letter to shareholders  this year as Citigroup’s
goal of regaining “our company’s place as the world’s premier
international bank.” Pandit, who has said that “globality”
was the lender’s defining strength, wants to more than double
staff in China to 12,000. The bank, which he joined in 2007, has
added 900 branches in  Latin America  in the past six years.  ‘Key Differentiator’  Citigroup’s global reach is a “key differentiator” for
investors choosing between the New York-based company and
domestic rivals such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , according to Richard Staite, an analyst with Atlantic
Equities LLP in London.  While Pandit’s spending has helped boost revenue, expenses
have increased faster. Citigroup’s Asian and Latin American
consumer-banking units posted combined revenue of $8.7 billion
for the first half of 2011, an 11 percent increase over the same
period last year. Operating expenses rose 18 percent as profit
fell 7.1 percent to $1.84 billion.  ‘Global Footprint’  “We remain committed to leveraging our unique global
footprint to serve our clients and will continue to make prudent
investments in overseas and domestic markets while tightly
managing expenses,” said  Shannon Bell , a Citigroup spokeswoman.  Citigroup also counts countries in the  Middle East , Africa
and Eastern Europe as emerging markets, while excluding some
Asian nations such as  Japan . The bank earned $2.3 billion before
taxes from  consumer banking  in emerging markets in the first
half of 2011 compared with $2.2 billion during the same period
in 2010, according to a  company presentation .  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News in August predicted
that the world’s economy would grow by 4.2 percent in 2012, 0.3
percent less than what they estimated in January. They also cut
their outlook for U.S. economic growth next year to 2.4 percent
from 3.2 percent. There’s a 30 percent chance of another U.S.
recession in the next 12 months, according to the survey.  Citigroup economists led by  Willem Buiter  cut their
predictions for 2012 global growth to 3.2 percent from 3.7
percent in an Aug. 24 report. The estimate is their seventh-
biggest monthly cut in the past decade, according to the report.  Drag on Profit  Emerging markets drove the global economy during the U.S.
recession from December 2007 to June 2009. That’s unlikely to
happen again as regulators in  China , Brazil and other nations
seek to curb inflation amid rising consumer defaults. The MSCI
Emerging Markets Index, which tracks the performance of 826
companies, has tumbled 14 percent this year, after more than
doubling during the previous two years.  Any slowdown in global growth could mean that the cost of
building out Citigroup’s presence overseas is more of a drag on
profit. Pandit’s consumer-banking chief, Manuel Medina-Mora, 61,
told reporters in March that he intends to invest between $3
billion and $4 billion over the next two to three years. About
half of that will probably go to Asian countries including
China, a person familiar with the matter said in April.  Citigroup posted net income of $6.34 billion for the first
half, following a $10.6 billion profit for all of 2010. The bank
could earn $12.3 billion this year before increasing profit
again in 2012 to more than $15 billion, according to the average
estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Estimate Cut  Such an upward trajectory is unlikely, said  Michael Yoshikami , CEO and founder of YCMNet Advisors, a Walnut Creek,
California-based fund that manages $1 billion, including
Citigroup shares.  “We could easily lose a third of consensus growth,” said
Yoshikami, who estimated the bank could earn $12 billion next
year. “If the economy slows down in emerging markets, I don’t
think we should be surprised about that.”  Glenn Schorr , a bank analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  New
York , trimmed his 2012 profit estimate for Citigroup by 11
percent to $14.7 billion, citing “regulatory uncertainty and
the slower economic recovery,” according to a note to clients
yesterday. Schorr has a “buy” rating on Citigroup.  Other analysts remain more optimistic. Jeffery Harte of
Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in  Chicago  predicts that Citigroup
will post a $12.4 billion profit this year and then boost net
income by 36 percent to $16.8 billion next year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Harte, who recommends that investors
buy Citigroup, reduced his 2012 estimate from $18.6 billion
since January, the data show.  Pandit’s Strategy  Emerging markets have been central to Pandit’s strategy for
the bank’s recovery. Citigroup posted $29.3 billion in losses
tied to subprime mortgages for 2008 and 2009, his first two full
years in charge, and received a $45 billion bailout and a $301
billion asset guarantee from U.S. taxpayers.  The lender now gets more than half of its profit from
emerging markets, Pandit said in March.  “They’re going to do OK in the U.S. banking business, but
that’s not why we got in the stock,” said James Cullen,
president of Cullen Capital Management LLC in New York, which
owns about 2.9 million Citigroup shares. “From a long-term
perspective, it gives you exposure to a potentially interesting
market, international and emerging.”  Pandit should continue to invest shareholders’ money
overseas even if it hurts profit margins, Atlantic Equities’
Staite said in a phone interview. He should instead target the
company’s Citi Holdings unit, the so-called bad bank created in
2009 to house and sell about $600 billion of troubled businesses
and assets. Its operating expenses were $4.2 billion for the
first half, 17 percent of the lender’s total.  Disposing Assets  Pandit has disposed of about $300 billion of unwanted
assets from Citi Holdings, leaving about $308 billion to sell.
That goal could also be undermined by an economic slump,
Portales Partners’ Peabody wrote in a June 21 note to clients.  Declining prices will make it more difficult to sell
 CitiFinancial , a consumer-finance lender with more than 2,000
branches and $32 billion in assets, and the bank’s store-branded
credit-card business, which has $46 billion of assets, Peabody
wrote. The bank is also struggling to reduce its portfolio of
residential mortgages, he said.  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., Leucadia National
Corp. and Centerbridge Partners LLC are in talks to buy
CitiFinancial, two people with knowledge of the talks said in
July. The store-branded card business posted a  $769 million
profit  before taxes in the second quarter, according to a
company presentation. Bell, the spokeswoman, declined to say
whether the bank was in talks to sell the unit.  ‘Short-Term Hit’  “I absolutely would like to see him continue to invest in
growth markets and cut costs and retrench in more established
markets,” YCMNet’s Yoshikami said. “As an investor, I’m OK
with a short-term hit on profitability if it’s being invested
wisely. I’m willing to take the short-term pain for the long-
term payoff.”  Pandit told analysts on a Jan. 18 conference call that
“macro trends will dominate micro trends, especially for the
next few quarters,” citing weak  job creation , a slumping U.S.
housing market and “excessive government leverage” among some
European nations. The bank was seeking “responsible growth” in
this environment, he said.  “He really foresaw a lot of this,” Peabody said. “This
period of slow-to-no-growth is not a total surprise to Pandit.
If anyone was reading between the lines, he was telling you that
the estimates were too high.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  