-- 
Panetta Calls Terror Threat ‘Very Real’ in Visit to Ground Zero Memorial

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-09-07T04:00:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/panetta-visits-new-york-pennsylvania-to-mark-sept-11-attacks.html
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said
the potential for another al-Qaeda attack in the U.S. is “very
real,” as threats from affiliated militants in  Yemen  supplant
those of the decimated leadership in  Pakistan  and Afghanistan.  “They continue to plan attacks and I don’t think we can
take anything for granted,” Panetta said yesterday during a
visit to New York’s World Trade Center site five days before the
10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 strikes. “The potential for
that kind of attack remains very real.”  Panetta’s assessment of al-Qaeda steps back from a more
optimistic tone he struck in his first weeks after becoming
defense secretary on July 1, when he said “strategically
defeating” the terror group is within reach. The Sept. 11
attacks killed almost 3,000 people and propelled the U.S. and
its allies into a decade of war that may continue for years.  “There’s no question that, as we celebrate the 10th
anniversary of 9/11, that we have made significant progress in
weakening al-Qaeda,” Panetta, 73, said. Three of al-Qaeda’s top
four leaders have been killed, including  Osama bin Laden  in a
May raid by U.S. commandos.  Still, branches of the group remain active in areas such as
Somalia and Yemen, and its ideology continues to inspire
militants, Panetta said.  Yemen Rising  “There’s no question that Yemen has risen to the top of
the list,” he said. Work also must continue toward defeating
al-Qaeda in the tribal areas of Pakistan and Afghanistan, and
other areas where al-Qaeda-linked militants are plotting attacks,
he said.  The arrest in recent days of senior al-Qaeda leader Younis
al-Mauritani in Quetta, Pakistan, by that country’s authorities
“is a tribute to the Pakistanis,” Panetta said. “This is one
that frankly was particularly encouraging because he was someone
that we thought was a real threat.”  Panetta, accompanied by officers from each of the five
branches of the U.S. armed services, got a rain-doused tour of
the 9/11 National Memorial in lower  Manhattan  from  New York 
Mayor Michael Bloomberg.  The defense chief is believed to be the first Cabinet
member to see the finished memorial in New York, which will be
unveiled on Sept. 11 after families see the inscribed names of
the 2,982 people killed in the attacks that day, Pentagon
spokesman George Little said.  Recalling 9/11  Panetta, a former member of the U.S. House of
Representatives and one-time White House budget chief, said he
was on  Capitol Hill  on 9/11, briefing members of Congress on
ocean issues as chairman of a commission.  A fellow member of the panel who had an office in New York
leaned over during the meeting and told Panetta about the
attacks. Panetta said he informed the lawmakers, who then ended
the meeting. Everyone left the Capitol, and Panetta said he
eventually rented a car and drove back to Monterey,  California ,
where he was born and still lives.  Panetta also was a member of the board of the New York
Stock Exchange at the time. He said he saw the destroyed Ground
Zero when he came to New York in the days after the attack to
discuss the reopening of the stock exchange.  The new memorial, called Reflecting Absence, features 30-
foot waterfalls plunging down black granite walls into two
square voids meant to represent the twin towers of the former
World Trade Center.  Abyss in Center  Each one-acre pool then drains into another abyss in the
center. A row of swamp white oak trees arrayed around each
square marks the footprint of each of the towers that collapsed
after being hit by American Airlines Flight 11 and United
Airlines Flight 175.  More trees cover the rest of the plaza, including a non-
fruit-bearing Callery pear rescued from the disaster and nursed
back to health in the Bronx. It’s now known as the “Survivor
Tree.”  The plaza covers a museum, which is yet to be completed, as
well as other areas, including a train station. The mayor, the
majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, serves as
board chairman of the  National September 11 Memorial & Museum .  New office towers are rising on the rest of the site,
including one called Freedom Tower that already is the tallest
building in  Lower Manhattan  and is still rising under
construction.  Military Participants  Panetta brought with him five members of the armed services
who joined the military after the Sept. 11 attacks. The U.S. has
lost at least 6,226 military and civilian Defense Department
personnel in the two wars, including 4,911 killed in action.  “Our greatest strength lies in those that have been
willing to serve this nation to defend it,” he told reporters
traveling with him.  One of them is Navy Lieutenant Adam Jones, who entered the
U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis,  Maryland , his hometown, in 2002.
He was part of the first class to enroll after Sept. 11 and the
subsequent invasion of  Afghanistan  to topple the Taliban regime
that had harbored al-Qaeda. He has served in  Iraq  as well as
with the Pacific fleet.  Three of the other four officers have been deployed at
least once to Iraq or Afghanistan or both. The fourth, U.S.
Coast Guard Lieutenant Nikea Natteal of Yuma,  Arizona , has
served in intelligence for the Navy’s Sixth Fleet for  Europe  and
 Africa  and following the earthquake in  Haiti .  Panetta will take part in further anniversary ceremonies at
the Pentagon over the coming days.  President  Barack Obama  and former President  George W. Bush 
will attend New York City’s observance on Sept. 11, the first
time a president has participated in the annual ceremony.  Rain and fog forced the cancellation of Panetta’s next
planned stop yesterday in Shanksville,  Pennsylvania , where one
of the four airliners commandeered by al-Qaeda hijackers crashed
after the passengers thwarted their efforts to strike the White
House or the U.S. Capitol in  Washington , according to the 2004
 report  by an independent bipartisan commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  