-- 
Pawnbrokers Thrive as Rising Gold Price Entices Hard-Up Britons

-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 
2011-09-06T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/pawnbrokers-thrive-as-rising-gold-price-entices-hard-up-britons.html
Pawnbrokers, who arrived in England
with William the Conqueror in 1066, are thriving in a
spluttering economy as banks lend less and gold prices soar.  Albemarle & Bond Plc, Cash Converters,  H&T Group Plc (HAT)  and
Cash Generator are reporting higher earnings and opening stores
as government spending cuts bite and households seek quick
sources of money, the companies said. That’s boosted the shares
of H&T and Albemarle & Bond.  “Pawnbroking is one of the few areas to be benefiting from
austerity Britain,” Robert Sanders, an analyst at Arbuthnot
Securities in London, said in a telephone interview. “One of
the key factors is that banks are unwilling to give people
overdrafts. Another big advance is gold purchasing. Everything
is set fair for them at the moment.”  The traditional symbol of a pawnbroker is three gold balls
suspended from a bar, and gains in the price of precious metals
have made the business more lucrative. The price of gold
increased 31 percent this year and touched a record $1,921.15 an
ounce yesterday as investors sought refuge from turbulent
financial markets. Silver has risen 36 percent.  The environment is “looking good,” H&T Chief Executive
Officer John Nichols said by telephone on Aug. 23, adding that
full-year profit will exceed the most optimistic of analysts’
forecasts. “Rather than trying to borrow more from banks,
people are still tightening their belts. The high price of gold
does the advertising for us.”  Trading Goods  The U.K. economy expanded at its slowest annual rate since
early 2010 in the second quarter as people have less money to
spend. Jobless claims rose the most in more than two years in
July, while inflation accelerated to 4.4 percent, more than
double the Bank of  England ’s target and compared with wage
growth of 2.6 percent, data from the Office for National
Statistics show.  Pawnbrokers offer customers a loan for a fixed period of
time in exchange for goods that can be reclaimed with a ticket
once the money plus interest is paid back. Should the client
fail to return and take the possessions back, the pawnbroker
advertises them for sale and recovers the debt.  Over the centuries, the brokers have financed everything
from wars with  France  to exploring the globe.  Albemarle & Bond reckons there’s potential for more than
3,000 pawnbroker outlets in the U.K. for the industry, compared
with about 1,200 today. The company, which is based in Reading,
southern England, and has about 160 shops, said in May that
full-year profit will be at the “top end” of analysts’
estimates when it reports earnings on Sept. 27.  Less Credit  Rising gold has boosted demand, along with “banks closing
branches and cutting the access of credit to their customers,”
Barry Stevenson, CEO of Albemarle & Bond, said in an interview.  Shares in the chain have risen 17 percent this year,
compared with a 12 percent decline in the benchmark All-Share
Index. H&T, which has 150 outlets and was founded in south
 London  in 1897, is up 15 percent.  Stephen, 32 and unemployed, said he is regularly forced to
pawn goods such as computer games and collectable teddy bears.
He declined to be named in full because he didn’t want his
friends and family to know what he has to resort to.  “I’ve two kids and one on the way, I need the money,”
Stephen said at an east Belfast Cash Converters store. “After a
while, you rely on it. A lot of people around here do it.”  Cash Converters, a chain of more than 600 stores worldwide,
including almost 200 in the U.K., had record net income last
financial year. Cash Generator, founded in 1994 in Bolton,
northwest England, now has 150 stores and plans to open 50
stores a year, according to its  website .  Needing Cash  Business has “been noticeably better over the past couple
of years,” Martin McGrath, 60, who owns the franchise for Cash
Converters stores in  Northern Ireland , said at his outlet in
Belfast. The number of customers who “sell out of need” has
risen, McGrath said.  In 1338, Edward III pawned his jewels to raise money for
his war with France, according to “ A History of Pawnbroking
Past and Present ,” by William A.H. Hows. By the end of the 14th
century, a network of pawnbrokers existed across  Europe 
concentrating on the “top end of the market,” and by 1750
around 250 large shops existed in Britain, Kenneth Hudson wrote
in “Pawnbroking, an Aspect of British Social History.”  Queen Isabella  of  Spain  pawned her jewelry in order to send
Christopher Columbus out to what he believed was the Indies.  The pawnbrokers’ symbol of three balls is attributed to the
crest of the Medici family of Florence, which divided in the
15th century with one half becoming bankers and the other
pawnbrokers, according to the  National Pawnbrokers Association 
of the U.K. website.  Pawning goods is “no longer associated with something that
you have to be really impoverished to do,” said Danielle James,
an analyst at Shore Capital in Liverpool, northwest England, who
recommends investors buy H&T and Albemarle & Bond shares. “It
has become less stigmatized.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  