-- 
Philippine Bonds Gain as Inflation Cools in August; Peso Drops

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-09-06T08:29:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/philippine-bonds-gain-as-inflation-cools-in-august-peso-drops.html
Philippine  government bonds  rose as
data showed inflation cooled for a second month in August,
spurring speculation the central bank won’t raise borrowing
costs when it meets this week.  Consumer prices increased 4.7 percent from a year earlier,
after rising 5.1 percent in July, the  National Statistics Office 
said. The monetary authority will keep its overnight borrowing
rate at 4.50 percent on Sept. 8, according to all 15 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The peso fell for a second day as the
MSCI-Asia Pacific Index of shares slid on concern Europe’s debt
crisis is worsening and the  U.S. economy  is slowing.  “Bond yields are lower as people flock to safety,
supported by inflation,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market
strategist at Banco de Oro Unibank Inc. in Manila. “The peso’s
weaker as risk aversion rises on concern over deteriorating
fundamentals in the U.S. and the euro zone.”  The yield on the 8 percent bond due July 2031 fell two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.12 percent as of
4:23 p.m. in Manila, according to Tradition Financial Services.
The rate touched 7.025 percent earlier, the lowest since the
notes were first sold last month.  The peso declined 0.2 percent to 42.28 per dollar,
according to Tullett Prebon Plc.  The Philippines may further liberalize foreign-exchange
rules, including allowing companies with dollar requirements not
previously advised to the regulator, to buy from lenders,
central bank Governor Amando Tetangco told reporters today. That
will help boost demand for dollars and temper gains in the peso,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  