-- 
Sparkling Pools Mist Names of Dead With Grace at 9/11 Memorial

-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 
2011-09-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/pools-mist-names-of-the-dead-with-grace-at-9-11-memorial-james-s-russell.html
As a breeze whips the veils of water
cascading into the  9/11 memorial’s  pools, sparkling garlands
dissolve into mist.  The dancing waters don’t strike the solemn note I expected
from this shrine to 2,983 deaths on the site of the World Trade
Center’s twin towers.  With the consequences of Sept. 11 still unfolding we can’t
know the larger meaning of what happened that day. The rush to
commemorate resulted in a compromised, but elegant muddle.  Remembering the victims has been the only safe course.  I take time to consider the names of the dead, laser cut in
76 sloping bronze panels that run in a long, continuous railing
around the pools.  Individual names pop out. (Guides will help visitors locate
specific people.) They’re arranged in long, gracefully staggered
lines that remind me of just how many they were.  The veils of water behind the names are not the main point:
They shower the names with grace.  442 Oaks  I wander among Swamp White Oak trees planted on the 8-acre
plaza that surrounds the pools. They run in east-west lines
across bands of light-gray granite that alternate paving stones
and cobbles.  Landscape architect  Peter Walker  has instructed arborists
to trim the branches of the oaks (eventually 442 of them) to a
uniform 11-foot height. Amid stolid tree trunks marching into
the distance, that horizontal expanse under the leaves draws the
eye to the low, dark granite parapets of memorial pools set into
the twin tower footprints.  The landscape and the pools are sensitive and respectful,
but a searing, politically and emotionally complex process
largely guaranteed that the experience is essentially passive
rather than gripping.  Since so many people felt they owned the memory of that
day, grief clashed with angry, flag-waving defiance. Cooler
heads argued that defining the true meaning and significance of
the events required a detachment only time would bring. Cooler
heads did not prevail.  Respecting the wishes of those 9/11 victim families that
deemed the tower footprints to be sacred ground, officials
dedicated almost half of the Trade Center site to the memorial.  City Life  That decision proved very expensive, helping to push the
cost to an unconscionable $700 million.  Beating 5,200 entries in an open international competition,
the original design by young architect Michael Arad included a
vast austere plaza and the memorial waterfall pools. He brought
in Walker, a respected Berkeley,  California , landscape architect
to soften the plaza with greenery, invigorating sorrow with city
life.  Though Walker has created a place of quiet dignity with the
ranks of trees and the plane of granite, pleasant ambivalence
trumps the expression of tragedy. Once the site can be opened to
surrounding streets, local Wall Street workers will gather at
lunch.  Currently construction equipment thumps and growls on the
four streets surrounding the memorial’s plaza, but about three
fourths of the precinct opens on Sept. 11.  Visitors will enter the southwest corner of the site, on
Liberty and West Streets, after passing through an airport-style
checkpoint. The plaza will not exert its full effect for years,
when surrounding streets open and the checkpoint is removed.  Grandiose Museum  Hulking ventilation structures jarringly intrude. They had
to be accommodated once officials authorized a grandiose 9/11
museum that fills much of the 70-foot-deep space beneath the
plaza. Accounting for perhaps $300 million of the memorial’s
cost, it opens next year.  Another intrusion is the museum’s entrance building. It
started life as an $80-million, patriotism-drenched center to
celebrate freedom. After protests by victims’ families,
officials belatedly recognized that the center’s programs might
attract ugly controversy at odds with its location at  Ground
Zero .  The Oslo architecture firm  Snohetta  turned the center into
an oversized entrance to the 9/11 museum. It now overwhelms the
twin memorial pools, even pushing its crystalline prow into the
space between them, muddling the site’s meaning.  The urge to commemorate the horror of Sept. 11 has outrun
history. The terror-attack aftermath -- the military
engagements, for example, -- remains too emotionally raw and
politically divisive to engage.  Loved Ones  Arad’s first design listed victims in underground galleries
behind the waterfalls. It was a powerfully poetic idea, but I am
glad the names came up to the plaza.  Visitors can remember loved ones or pray as the trees cast
dappled shadows on passersby chatting with friends. Recognizing
loss while getting on with our lives is an enormously affirming
gesture.  The memorial never needed to do more than that.  Visitors to the National September 11 Memorial and Museum
must reserve free passes in advance. Information: +1-212-266-
5200;  http://www.911memorial.org .  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. Island Press has just
published his book, “The Agile City.” The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 