-- 
Mail Delivery May Stop in 2012 Unless Congress Frees Up Cash

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-09-07T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/postal-service-loss-estimate-widens-to-10-billion-as-ceo-seeks-u-s-help.html
The U.S.  Postal Service  said it may
not have the cash to carry the mail beyond next August if
Congress doesn’t let it take steps like ending Saturday delivery
and withdrawing from a government health-care plan.  “I’m operating right now with a week’s worth of cash in a
business that’s a $65 billion business,” Postmaster General
Patrick Donahoe said yesterday at a Senate committee hearing.
The Washington-based service needs about $1 billion in cash a
week, said David Partenheimer, a spokesman.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is proposing to
move the Postal Service’s Sept. 30 deadline for a $5.5 billion
payment toward future retirees’ health benefits, which it says
it can’t afford, back by 90 days.  That would give the administration, Congress and the
service time to reach an agreement on the service’s finances,
said John Berry, head of the White House Office of Personnel
Management. The service forecast a loss of $10 billion in the
year ending Sept. 30, as mail volume drops for the fifth year.  “There’s a clock ticking,” Senator  Joseph Lieberman , a
Connecticut independent and chairman of the Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs Committee, said at the hearing. “By
next summer you’re effectively not going to be able to deliver
the mail. That should get us all working.”  Squeezing Workers, Suppliers  The Postal Service, which expects to reach its $15 billion
government-mandated borrowing limit this month, has also
proposed cutting more than a third of its jobs and squeezing
suppliers to reduce costs. The mailing industry accounts for 7
percent of U.S. gross domestic product, the Postal Service says.  Senators Thomas Carper, a Delaware Democrat, and  Susan Collins , a Maine Republican; and Representative  Darrell Issa , a
California Republican, each have proposed legislation that would
allow the service to make some of its requested changes.  Obama in February proposed delaying $4 billion of the
congressionally mandated $5.5 billion payment and refunding some
surplus pension payments made by the service.  “Between the House, the Senate and the administration, we
can all sit down and work something out for the Postal Service
and the industry,” Donahoe told reporters.  Mail volume will decrease 2 percent this fiscal year, for a
drop of 22 percent since 2006, Donahoe said. The service widened
its loss forecast from $9 billion previously.  The Postal Service last month said it wants to eliminate
220,000 jobs, or 39 percent of its full-time workforce, by 2015.
That would include firing about 120,000 people, breaking its
tradition of cutting employment mainly through retirement and
voluntary departures.  Union Talks  The service is negotiating new contracts with two of its
largest unions, the National Association of Letter Carriers and
the National Postal Mail Handlers Union. The groups’ current
contracts expire Nov. 20.  “If nothing is done, the Postal Service will run out of
money and be forced to slash service and employees,” Lieberman
said. “That’s the last thing our struggling economy and our
country need right now.”  The U.S. unemployment rate in August was 9.1 percent and as
been above 8 percent since February 2009.  Cliff Guffey, president of the American Postal Workers
Union, the largest postal union based on current employees, said
in his testimony that the proposed firings would be
“outrageous, illegal and despicable.”  The 250,000-member union, which represents mail clerks,
drivers, mechanics and custodians, signed a contract with the
Postal Service this year that extends through 2015 and prohibits
firing most employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  