-- 
Ralcorp Should Explain Rejection of $5.18B Bid

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-09-06T15:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/ralcorp-should-explain-rejection-of-5-18-billion-bid-iss-says.html
(Corrects second, sixth paragraphs to show note and comment
were yesterday.)  Ralcorp Holdings Inc. (RAH)  directors
should explain why they rejected ConAgra Foods Inc.’s most
recent $5.18 billion takeover bid or risk being seen as
entrenched, the ISS shareholder advisory service said.  “At some point a tight-lipped communications strategy
morphs into a shareholder perception of entrenchment,” ISS said
in a note to clients yesterday. ISS, a unit of MSCI Inc.,
advises shareholders on how to vote their shares, such as at
annual meetings.  Ralcorp last month rejected a $94 a share offer and said it
would continue preparations to split in two, separating the Post
Foods cereal unit from the rest of the company, which focuses on
private-label food brands. ConAgra publicly disclosed its first
offer for St. Louis-based Ralcorp, of $86 a share, in May.  The shares of Ralcorp traded at an average of about $70 in
April, before news of the offer leaked out. Ralcorp fell 91
cents to $85 in  New York  Stock Exchange trading on Sept. 2.  Ralcorp didn’t mention getting advice from bankers and
lawyers on its latest rejection, as it did in May, ISS said,
raising the question of whether their advice conflicted with the
board’s decision.  The directors have unanimously determined that splitting
Ralcorp “will unlock additional significant value for our
shareholders,” the company said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. Ralcorp expects to complete the move in four to six
months, according to the statement.  Ralcorp said in July that it was getting advice from Credit
Suisse Group AG, Wachtell Lipton Rosen & Katz LLP, and Bryan
Cave LLP. ConAgra is using Centerview Partners LP, Bank of
America Corp., and Davis Polk & Wardwell.  A spokesman for ConAgra declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  