-- 
Rand Gains First Day in Four as U.S. Service Industry Unexpectedly Expands

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-09-06T14:58:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/rand-gains-for-first-day-in-4-on-dollar-weakness-as-swiss-set-franc-rate.html
The rand strengthened for the first
time in four days against the dollar, erasing earlier losses,
after a report showed an unexpected increase in U.S. service
industries, easing concern the American economy is slumping.  South Africa ’s currency gained 0.2 percent to 7.1213 versus
the dollar at 4:24 p.m. in Johannesburg, after earlier declining
as much as 0.4 percent to 7.1635.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses increased to 53.3 last month from 52.7
in July. Economists forecast the gauge would drop to 51,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. A
reading above 50 signals expansion. A pickup among the non-
manufacturing industries that account for about 90 percent of
the economy shows the recovery may persist amid dimming job
prospects and rising pessimism about the economic outlook.  The ISM data “could have been worse, but it wasn’t,” Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury strategic research at
Johannesburg-based Nedbank Capital, a unit of South Africa’s
fourth-biggest bank, said by phone. “The market is looking for
anything to say, let’s straighten out a bit. In the ultra-short
term, that” boosted the rand, he added.  The rand strengthened 0.5 percent stronger at 10.0186
against the euro. European stocks declined for a third day
before Finance ministers from  Germany ,  Finland  and the
Netherlands are scheduled to meet today to discuss a Finnish
demand for collateral in a bailout for  Greece . Italy’s Senate is
set to debate an austerity plan amid a strike called by the
nation’s biggest union. Gross domestic product in the euro area
expanded 0.2 percent in the second quarter, the European Union’s
statistics office reported today.  ‘Underlying Weakness’  “The underlying weakness in the  euro zone  is manifesting
itself in euro weakness, driving the rand” stronger,  John Cairns  and Nema Ramkhelawan-Bhana, currency strategists at Rand
Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in a research note.  The rand was buoyed by foreign-investor purchases of the
nation’s debt, which helped drive 10-year yields to the lowest
level since January 2009. Bond purchases by offshore investors
have offset net equity outflows, helping to bolster the rand
even as concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen sapped demand
for riskier, emerging-market assets.  “The market is still being supported by offshore
interest,”  Brigid Taylor , head of institutional sales at
Nedbank Capital, said by phone from Johannesburg. “We’re not
seeing aggressive buying today, but there haven’t been massive
risk-off outflows either. That’s why the rand is remaining
stable.”  Bond Yields  Global funds have bought a net 53.8 billion rand ($7.6
billion) of South African bonds this year, even as they sold a
net 7.53 billion rand of shares, according to JSE Ltd. data on
Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors receive for holding South African
10-year bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries dropped four basis
points to 5.56 percentage points today. The spread was 5.83
percentage points on Aug. 12, the widest this year.  The 6.75 percent securities due 2021 climbed 69 cents to
94.884 rand, driving the yield down 11 basis points to 7.508
percent, the lowest on a closing basis since Jan. 5, 2009.  “Foreigners have held firm in their local long bond
positions through the recent  risk aversion ,” Tradition
Analytics strategists led by Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw wrote in a research note. “Local bonds are expected
to remain firm.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  