-- 
Treasury Approves $4.3 Billion for Small-Business Lending

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-09-06T22:28:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/treasury-approves-4-3-billion-for-small-business-lending-1-.html
The U.S. Treasury Department 
approved $4.3 billion for 382 financial institutions as part of
its Small Business Lending Fund.  The Treasury has completed more than $1.8 billion in
funding for 130 lenders, according to a department white paper
obtained by Bloomberg News today. Of 932 applications received,
more than 40 percent “failed to meet minimum statutory or
program requirements and therefore could not be approved,” the
Treasury said. The requirements include the size of the bank and
whether it had missed Capital Purchase Program payments.  The $4.3 billion comes from a $30 billion small-business
lending program set up in September 2010 by Congress and the
administration of President  Barack Obama  to provide low-interest
capital injections to community banks that increase their
lending to small businesses. The program, which ends Sept. 27,
permits the banks to use the new capital to refinance their
Troubled Asset Relief Program debt.  The Obama administration has supported 17 tax breaks
providing relief of more than $50 billion for small businesses,
Don Graves, the Treasury’s assistant secretary for small
business, wrote in a blog posting Sept. 2. Small businesses
employ about half the workforce and account for 60 percent of
gross  job creation , Graves said.  Leverage Capital  Because banks leverage their capital, funding provided
through the SBLF “will help increase lending to small
businesses in an amount that is multiples of the total amount
provided through these programs,” he wrote.  To be eligible for the SBLF, a lender couldn’t have more
than $10 billion in assets on Dec. 31, 2009. If the institution
had participated in the TARP Capital Purchase Program, it
couldn’t have missed more than one dividend payment.  Of the applicants that met the requirements, the Treasury
approved “all institutions qualified for taxpayer investment
and well-positioned to extend credit to businesses in their
communities,” according to the department’s white paper.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 chopkins@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  