-- 
Treasury 10-Year Yields Fall to Record on European Sovereign-Debt Concern

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-09-06T21:26:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/treasuries-rise-send-u-s-10-year-yields-to-record-low-as-shares-decline.html
Treasury 10-year note yields
decreased to an all-time low as concern  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis will cripple the region’s financial institutions
underpinned demand for the safest assets.  Yields on 30-year bonds touched the lowest level since
January 2009 on speculation Federal Reserve Chairman Ben. S. Bernanke may signal in a speech this week that the central bank
will purchase longer-duration debt while shedding shorter
maturities. Ten-year notes are the most overvalued ever,
according to a financial model created by Fed economists that
includes expectations for  interest rates , growth and inflation.
Stocks dropped.  “The fear is that the debt contagion is not abating,”
said  Michael Franzese , managing director and head of Treasury
trading at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York. “Because of
the global stock meltdown, flight to quality came into play. The
safest bet would be to jump into dollar-denominated assets, like
Treasuries. The Fed will have to do something to stimulate the
economy, and the only way to do that is to buy Treasuries.”  The benchmark 10-year note yield was little changed at 1.98
percent at 5:21 p.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The price of the 2.125 percent securities
maturing in August 2021 closed at 101 1/4.  Record Low Yields  The 10-year note yields earlier slid to 1.9066 percent, the
lowest on record. A gain in 30-year bonds pushed yields down
three basis points to 3.27 percent after they fell to 3.18
percent, a level not seen in more than two years. Two-year note
yields were little changed at 0.196 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.7 percent after
earlier declining 2.9 percent. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost
0.7 percent after tumbling 4.1 percent yesterday.  Yields on five-year notes gained two basis points to 0.88
percent after a report showed U.S. service industries
unexpectedly expanded at a faster pace in August and on
speculation the Fed won’t increase holdings of the maturities.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of U.S. non-
manufacturing businesses increased to 53.3 last month, the
Tempe, Arizona, group reported. Economists forecast the gauge
would drop to 51, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey. A reading above 50 signals expansion.  The U.S. had zero job growth in August, and the
 unemployment rate  held at 9.1 percent, the Labor Department’s
payrolls report showed Sept. 2.  ‘More Stable’  “The ISM doesn’t change the downbeat story, but it proves
that certain sectors of the economy are more stable than
others,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  Longer-term Treasuries led today’s gains as investors
speculated the Fed may buy those maturities to support the
economy under what is known as Operation Twist.  “Bernanke will not sit around and wait for things to
deteriorate,” said  Sean Murphy , a trader in New York at Societe
Generale SA, a primary dealer. “The market has strengthened the
case for him to provide further accommodation. The most viable
option for now is the twist.”  The central bank acquired today $730 million of Treasuries
maturing from April 2013 to February 2014. The purchases are
part of the Fed’s policy to continue to reinvest the proceeds of
maturing assets on its balance sheet to prevent a tightening of
monetary policy.  Bernanke Address  Bernanke will speak on the U.S. economic outlook Sept. 8 in
 Minneapolis . Fed officials will gather for a two-day meeting
Sept. 20 that was originally scheduled to last one day in order
to “allow a fuller discussion” of the economy and the central
bank’s possible policy response.  Minneapolis Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said today
in the text of a speech that the  U.S. economy  didn’t need
additional stimulus in August and probably won’t require more
easing this month.  The so-called term premium, which Bernanke cited in a 2006
speech in New York as a useful guide in setting monetary policy,
was negative 0.51 percent today, compared with an average 0.84
percent for the gauge during this decade through mid-2007. The
term premium touched negative 0.55 percent on Sept. 2, the
lowest ever according to Bloomberg data beginning in 1976.  “Investors aren’t buying for yield right now,” said
 George Goncalves , head of interest-rate strategy at Nomura
Holdings Inc., a primary dealer. “We are further along in the
deleveraging process than we were when the crisis began and
people are still willing to buy Treasuries, which tells you that
concern over credit globally remains.”  Yield Spread  Demand for longer maturities, which are most sensitive to
inflation outlook, caused the extra yield that investors get for
buying 10-year notes instead of two-year debt to narrow to 1.78
percentage points, the least since March 2009.  Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann 
said yesterday in Frankfurt that conditions in stock and bond
markets are reminiscent of the 2008 financial crisis.  The Swiss franc dropped the most ever against the euro
after the central bank imposed a ceiling on the currency’s
exchange rate to support the economy and said it will defend the
target with the “utmost determination.”  Treasuries have returned 8.1 percent in 2011, heading for
their best year since 2008, according to a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index. An index of  government bonds  around the
world has increased 4.8 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  