-- 
Repsol Review May Stall Shareholders’ Plans to Boost Control

-- B y   T o d d   W h i t e
-- 
2011-09-06T15:47:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/repsol-request-may-stall-holders-bid-for-control-sabadell-says.html
An appeal to regulators by  Repsol
YPF SA (REP)  may stall plans by two shareholders to increase control
over Spain’s biggest oil producer, Banco Sabadell said.  The petroleum company yesterday asked the  Comision Nacional
de Energia  to consider an Aug. 29 agreement between  Sacyr
Vallehermoso SA (SYV) , a Spanish builder, and Petroleos Mexicanos that
would see the Mexican operator boost its ownership and the two
shareholders vote their combined 29.8 percent stake as a bloc.  “Repsol took its first step to legally oppose the accord
of its principal shareholders and that may open the way for
other legal conflicts in the future that make it more difficult
for Sacyr and Pemex to take control,” said Jorge Gonzalez, an
analyst at Sabadell who has a “buy” rating on the shares.  The decision by Repsol, which has a 22 billion-euro ($31
billion) market value, may hinder Sacyr and the Mexican state-
run company known as Pemex because  the regulator  has as many as
90 days to study Repsol’s petition. Until then, the oil company
may say part of the holders’ accord lacks regulatory approval.  Under Spanish law, companies outside of the European Union
may need regulatory approval to buy stakes in local businesses.  The Spanish oil producer, based in Madrid, yesterday asked
the regulator to request that Mexico City-based Pemex formally
seek authorization from the CNE to increase its stake in Repsol,
according to a CNE spokeswoman who declined to be identified
because of the regulator’s policy. A Repsol spokesman said he
would only confirm that the petition to the regulator was filed.  Pemex Share Purchases  The accord with Sacyr calls for Pemex to raise its stake to
9.8 percent, from about 5 percent before the deal. Pemex this
week said it bought an additional 4.6 percent of Repsol.  The two shareholders also agreed to jointly revamp
management at Repsol, a driller and refiner that has made 34
discoveries in the past three years, according to its website.  Gas Natural SDG SA, 30 percent held by Repsol, said today
it has asked to be consulted on any inquiry as an “interested
party.” Repsol owns 30 percent of Gas Natural, Spain’s largest
natural-gas supplier and a company regulated by the CNE.  Repsol fell 0.7 percent to close at 18.46 euros in Madrid,
as the Stoxx 600 Oil & Gas index gained 0.2 percent. The oil
benchmark’s largest member is BP Plc, whose market value is
about three times the size of Repsol’s.  The government will support the energy regulator’s decision
on whether it should examine Pemex’s stake, Industry Minister
Miguel Sebastian said today. “The only thing the government is
concerned with is the Spanish control of Repsol,” Sebastian
said. “The government is on the margins of the situation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd White in Madrid at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  