-- 
Republicans Vow Opposition to U.S. Consumer Bureau Nomination

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-09-06T22:46:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/republicans-vow-opposition-to-u-s-consumer-bureau-nomination.html
Senate Republicans hearing testimony
from President Barack Obama’s nominee to head the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau said they wouldn’t confirm anyone to
run the agency without changes to its structure.  Republicans have a “substantive disagreement” about how
the bureau functions under the Dodd-Frank financial regulatory
overhaul, said Senator  Richard Shelby , the top Republican on the
Senate Banking Committee, reiterating his opposition to the
nomination of Richard Cordray.  “That’s going to have to be resolved before we move this
nomination further,” Shelby said during Corday’s confirmation
hearing today.  Forty-four Republican senators have vowed to block a
nominee unless the bureau is restructured to remedy what they
call a lack of accountability. The changes they are demanding
include the replacement of the director with a five-member
commission.  In the 100-member Senate, nominees generally need 60 votes
for confirmation.  Senator Tim Johnson, the South Dakota Democrat who chairs
the banking panel, accused Republicans of doing the bidding of
banks who lobbied against the agency’s creation.  “The misleading claim of no CFPB accountability -- drummed
up by special interests and put forth by a vocal minority --
should be exposed for what it is: an attempt to destroy the
Bureau’s ability to do its job of protecting American
consumers,” Johnson said.  No Questions  Shelby didn’t address Cordray’s qualifications for the job
of bureau director, and didn’t say he would support Cordray if
the Obama administration agreed to structural changes. He asked
no questions of Cordray.  Asked by Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat,
whether Republicans had questioned his qualifications for the
job in private meetings before the hearing, Cordray responded,
“They did not.”  Obama announced on July 18 that he would nominate Cordray,
who is currently the bureau’s assistant director for
enforcement, to head the new agency. In doing so, Obama passed
over  Elizabeth Warren , the Harvard professor who spent much of
the past year setting up the bureau.  Bartlett Naylor, financial policy advocate for  Public
Citizen , a consumer group, warned that the 44 Republicans
blocking a director confirmation were also blocking an agency
that could help stop future financial crises. Public Citizen and
other consumer groups support Cordray.  Consumer Poll  “The agency’s opponents also defy American public opinion,
where polls show wide support for a strong CFPB,” Naylor said
in an e-mailed statement.  A July poll by the Consumer Reports National Research
Center, part of the nonprofit group that publishes Consumer
Reports magazine, found that 74 percent of those surveyed
“strongly support” or “somewhat support” the new consumer
agency.  The poll, conducted from July 14-17, surveyed 1,012 adults.
It had a sampling error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  As Ohio’s attorney general, Cordray rose to national
prominence by suing major financial firms including  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Ally
Financial Inc. over flawed mortgage servicing. He lost his bid
for re-election in November 2010, and Warren hired him for the
top enforcement slot.  Asked by Senator Robert Corker, a Tennessee Republican,
about his background in Ohio state politics, Cordray, who once
said he would run for governor, said an independent federal
regulator “must be completely absolved of politics.” He added,
“I have no plans to run for any political office.”  Cordray Testimony  In his opening statement, Cordray played down the role of
lawsuits in consumer protection. The consumer bureau has a
“bigger and more flexible toolbox” than he had in  Ohio ,
including research, regulations, consumer education and
supervision of financial firms, Cordray said.  “I know from my own experience that lawsuits can be a very
slow, wasteful, and needlessly acrimonious way to resolve a
problem,” Cordray said.  Yet he did promise lawsuits would be part of the consumer
bureau’s work.  “If people are ignoring or evading consumer protections
laws -- and seeking to gain an unfair advantage over their law-
abiding competitors -- then litigation is an essential tool, and
we will use it judiciously,” Cordray said in the testimony.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 