-- 
Richest Americans Can Help Fix Social Security: Perry Golkin

-- B y   P e r r y   G o l k i n
-- 
2011-09-06T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/richest-americans-can-help-fix-social-security-perry-golkin.html
The debate on Social Security reform
has reached an ideological stalemate, pitting collective
responsibility to provide for the less fortunate against an
individual’s right to one’s earnings and entitlements.  There is a way of dealing, at least partially, with the
funding shortfall for Social Security that draws on the
country’s best traditions. That would be to encourage a
voluntary waiver of benefits by affluent Americans.  To avoid the cynicism of those expecting government to
waste the funds, all waived benefits would be deposited into a
 trust fund  and passed on to future generations of retirees. The
mechanism for making this contribution would be simple and
inexpensive, a single line on Internal Revenue Service  Form 
1040, annually indicating a waiver of next year’s benefits.  Many wealthy Americans, who know better than anyone the
opportunities this country has provided, would respond to this
appeal. In my informal polling of friends who are fortunate
enough to be well-off, every one of them replied either
“absolutely” or “probably,” when I asked if they would be
willing to forgo their Social Security benefits in an effort to
reduce the federal debt. While my sample isn’t numerically
significant, it does suggest a sensibility that is encouraging
and worth exploring.  Making a Pledge  Last year,  Bill Gates  and  Warren Buffett  challenged 400 of
the richest Americans to pledge half of their fortunes to their
favorite causes either during their lifetimes or in their wills.
It established a new cultural standard for the wealthiest
Americans. A similar one could be created in this case, but it,
too, would have to be voluntary -- encouraged by peers rather
than demanded or required by others.  Social Security was conceived as a means of providing
financial assistance to “ aged needy individuals ,” not as a
monthly stipend for the rich. Today, there are millions of
Americans who would be considered high-net-worth individuals,
and they will live, on average, well past the age of retirement.
According to  Boston Consulting Group , in 2011 the U.S. had “by
far the most millionaire households (5.2 million)” in the world
this year. At 70 years of age, even the wealthiest of them will
be entitled today to payments in excess of $38,000 a year.  Held in Reserve  I estimate the impact of a voluntary program at $1 trillion
over three decades. Here’s the calculation. If 1 million of the
rich waive their Social Security benefits for one year, the
annual reduction in payments, net of taxes, would be at least
$20 billion. If this occurred each year for the next 30 years,
the trust fund would have $600 billion. If the funds were held
for 30 years and earned 3.5 percent annually over this period,
the interest earned would result in an additional $400 billion.
A total of $1 trillion of cash would be available for the next
generation if we had the discipline to wait 30 years. The  Social
Security Administration  couldn’t pay out benefits from this fund
until a specified date, for example, 2040.  As compelling as the economic rationale might be, the moral
imperative is equally important. This proposal can bridge the
ideological gap because people aren’t required to violate their
principles. Many wealthy business people already give away far
more than $38,000 annually to charity, and were this proposal
adopted it could become part of their voluntary giving while
helping to solve our nation’s debt crisis. This program will
allow the best of the American spirit to shine through and
perhaps tone down the rage against the rich and against bloated
government.  Volunteerism and generosity have long been part of the
national character, and virtually everyone cares about the well-
being of the world that their children and grandchildren will
inherit. The question I would pose to policy makers is: How much
faith do you have in the American people?  (Perry Golkin is an advisory partner at Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts & Co., where he was previously a partner or member for
24 years. He is also a lecturer at the  University of
Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School and law school. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Perry Golkin at  perry.golkin@kkr.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  