-- 
Perry Accused of Warping Election Map as Texas Trial Begins

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-09-06T17:32:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/rick-perry-accused-of-distorting-congressional-map-as-texas-trial-begins.html
Texas governor and U.S. presidential
candidate  Rick Perry  faces allegations in a trial that he
intentionally distorted congressional districts with the help of
Republican lawmakers to prevent Latinos from winning office.  The state has a four-decade history of violating minority
voting rights that has required court intervention, Jose Garza,
a lawyer for the Mexican American Legislative Caucus of the
state Legislature, said today in federal court in San Antonio.  “Whether the Legislature was controlled by Democrats or
Republicans, it didn’t matter,” Garza told a three-judge panel.
“Redistricting was always done on the backs of minorities.”  Rolando Rios, a lawyer for U.S. Representative Henry Cuellar, another plaintiff, said, “Texas has never given
anything to Latinos that it hasn’t been forced to by the
courts.”  The majority-Republican Legislature redrew congressional
district maps after the state grew enough to gain four seats in
Congress, adding almost 4.3 million residents since 2000
according to the 2010 census.  Hispanics, who have historically voted more often for
Democrats, accounted for about 65 percent of the increase.
Republicans hold 23 of  Texas ’s current 32 congressional seats.  A lawyer for the state defended the redistricting, saying
the Legislature created 22 so-called Latino opportunity
districts among the 36 new ones. Latinos comprise 25 percent of
voting-age citizens, he said.  White Voters  Deputy Attorney General David Schenck, defending the map,
disputed the view that white voters don’t support minority
candidates.  “Whites are voting for and electing African-American and
Latino candidates at record levels,” Schenck told the judges.
“They just happen to be Republicans.”  State lawmakers “employed gerrymandering techniques such
as packing and cracking of minority communities” to limit the
odds that Latinos would win the new seats, according to
criticism summarized in a ruling last week by the panel hearing
the nonjury trial.  Perry, 61, who is running for the Republican presidential
nomination, signed the bill with the election map created in
June by legislators. Texas officials presented the map for
administrative “pre-clearance” by the Obama administration
under the Voting Rights Act, a step required of all states with
a history of violations.  Governor, State Sued  Congressional representatives whose jobs are threatened by
the redistricting plan sued Perry and the state to block
approval of the map, as did Hispanic voting-rights organizations
and Travis County, which includes the capital, Austin.  Democrat  Barack Obama   outpolled  Republican  John McCain  64
percent to 34 percent in the county in the 2008 presidential
election. The city and county were splintered under the
redistricting plan.  If the new map is approved, “the Legislature’s blatant
racial gerrymandering will effectively prevent minority voters
from having any meaningful impact on congressional elections for
the next 10 years,” lawyers representing Travis County and
Austin said in court papers.  “The congresspersons contend the plan unnecessarily splits
politically cohesive minority groups, and is designed to
minimize or cancel out minority voting strength, both now and in
the future,” U.S. District Judge Orlando Garcia in San Antonio
wrote in a Sept. 2 order allowing most of the racial
gerrymandering claims to go to trial.  ‘Ridiculous Shapes’  “You see these ridiculous shapes, with lines weaving in
and out of neighborhoods and splitting hundreds of precincts
throughout the state, predominantly in Latino and minority
communities,” Luis Vera, a lawyer for the  League of United
Latin American Citizens , said today in court. “This is done by
people in power to fracture the Latino community.”  Given the rise in the Texas Hispanic population, the new
map “may be the last hurrah of a political party trying to hold
on to political power,” Vera said.  State Attorney General  Greg Abbott  said earlier that
critics can’t draw a better map.  “The evidence shows conclusively that the dispersal of
population across the state makes it impossible to draw
additional congressional districts consisting of a majority of
Latino or African-American voters,” Abbott said in court
papers.  Needed Proof  Abbott also said that, to throw out the map, opponents must
prove “the state acted with specific intent to discriminate on
the basis of race and not, for example, on the basis of
political affiliation.”  At a pretrial hearing last week, state Assistant Attorney
General David Mattax told the judges they will have to draw
their own map if they reject the one created by the Legislature.
Lawmakers can’t reconvene in time to devise a new plan without
delaying a November filing deadline for candidates, he said.  Perry announced he was entering the presidential race Aug.
13. Eight days later he moved into the lead among candidates for
the nomination, according to a Gallup poll.  “The Legislature determined and approved the map, and the
governor signed it and believes it went through a fair
process,” Catherine Frazier, a Perry spokeswoman, said
yesterday in a phone interview.  The case is Perez v. Perry, 11-cv-00360, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Texas ( San Antonio ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in San Antonio
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 