-- 
RIM Urged by Investor Jaguar to Sell Itself or Its Patents

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-09-06T20:24:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/rim-urged-by-investor-jaguar-to-sell-itself-or-spin-off-wireless-patents.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) , the maker
of the BlackBerry smartphone, should consider selling itself or
spinning off its patents to boost investor returns after a slump
in its stock price, shareholder  Jaguar Financial Corp. (JFC)  said.  RIM should create a committee of four or five independent
directors to study those options, Jaguar Chief Executive Officer
Vic Alboini said today in an interview. Alboini, who declined to
disclose the size of Jaguar’s RIM stake, said his proposal has
the support of several large shareholders who collectively hold
less than 5 percent of the Waterloo, Ontario-based company.  RIM has come under pressure from investors to make
strategic changes after its stock lost almost half its value
this year amid market-share losses to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
Northwest & Ethical Investments LP in June called for a split of
the roles of chairman and CEO, shared by co-CEOs  Jim Balsillie 
and  Mike Lazaridis , to shake up leadership.  RIM’s agreement to form a committee to study Northwest’s
proposal and report back by January 2012 was “woefully
inadequate” and an “extreme example that management has not
let go,” Alboini said.  RIM rose 85 cents, or 2.8 percent, to $30.97 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has declined
47 percent this year.  ‘Eggs in One Basket’  Toronto-based Jaguar, which describes itself as a merchant
bank that invests in undervalued small-cap companies, has been
active in the past to pursue its goals.  Hudbay Minerals Inc. (HBM) 
agreed in 2009 to cancel its C$672 million ($534 million)
takeover of  Lundin Mining Corp. (LUN)  after Jaguar’s Alboini rallied
shareholders to oppose the bid.  Marisa Conway, a spokeswoman for RIM, declined to comment.  RIM is counting on a range of smartphones expected in 2012
built on its new QNX operating system to regain market share it
has lost in recent years. Its slice of the global smartphone
market fell to 12 percent in the second quarter from 19 percent
a year earlier, according to Gartner Inc. Over the same period,
iPhone maker Apple climbed to 18 percent from 14 percent, and
Google’s Android platform rose to 43 percent of the market.  Alboini said that RIM’s board has a responsibility to
shareholders to consider other options and not to assume that
QNX will be a hit that will revive RIM’s fortunes.  “You cannot put all your eggs in one basket,” he said.
“The board should be saying, ‘What if these products don’t pan
out?’ You don’t want RIM to turn into another Nortel.”  Nortel Networks Corp. (NRTLQ) , a Canadian maker of
telecommunications equipment, filed for bankruptcy in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  