-- 
Ritchie Capital Wins Order Resinstating Lawsuit Against Petters Executives

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-09-06T16:47:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/ritchie-capital-wins-order-resinstating-lawsuit-against-petters-executives.html
Ritchie Capital Management LLC won a
U.S. appeals court ruling reinstating its lawsuit against two
executives who worked for convicted fraud-scheme operator Thomas J. Petters.  Ritchie filed the civil racketeering and fraud suit in 2009
against former Petters Group Worldwide LLC Chief Executive
Officer Mary Jeffries and Camille Chee-Awai, who was chief
operating officer of Petters Co. Ritchie claimed they schemed
with Petters to deprive Ritchie of its collateralized investment
in Petters-owned Polaroid Corp.  A federal judge in Minneapolis dismissed the case last
year, finding it was barred by another court’s injunction
against new suits involving Petters’s companies, which were in
receivership. The dismissal was improper, the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in Minneapolis said today.  “The district court erred in concluding Ritchie’s action
was barred by the receivership order,” the three-judge appeals
panel said in a 17-page decision. “Nor did the receivership
have the power to cast its anti-suit injunction net that
broadly.”  Petters was sentenced to 50 years in prison in 2009 after
being found guilty of running a $3.5 billion fraud. Petters
conned investors into giving him money to finance phony
consumer-goods purchase contracts, U.S. prosecutors said.  Andrew Birrell, Jeffries’s attorney, and Terrence Canade,
Chee-Awai’s lawyer, didn’t immediately return calls for comment
on the appeals-court ruling.  The appeal is Ritchie Capital Management v. Jeffries, 10-
2568, 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals; the lower-court case is
Ritchie Capital Management LLC v. Jeffries, 10-00668, U.S.
District Court, District of Minnesota ( Minneapolis ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit  at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 