-- 
Romania’s Economic Growth Slowed in Second Quarter on Demand

-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 
2011-09-06T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/romania-s-economic-growth-slowed-in-second-quarter-on-demand.html
Romania ’s economic expansion slowed
in the second quarter as industrial output and export growth
lost pace on waning demand abroad.  Gross domestic product grew an unadjusted 1.4 percent,
after an increase of 1.7 percent in the first quarter, the
 National Statistics Institute  in Bucharest said today in an e-
mailed statement. The figure matched a preliminary estimate on
Aug. 16. GDP advanced an adjusted 0.2 percent from the previous
three months.  Growth is slowing across the region as  Europe ’s sovereign-
debt crisis roils markets and dents consumer confidence.
Romania’s economy is counting on western European demand for its
goods, such as Dacia SA cars and Nokia phones, to support a
recovery from the worst recession on record.  The Balkan nation took a 5 billion-euro ($7 billion)
precautionary loan from the  International Monetary Fund  and the
European Union this year as it seeks to reassure investors it
will maintain fiscal discipline ahead of elections in 2012. The
government has raised taxes and cut public wages and benefits to
narrow the budget deficit to below 3 percent of GDP by next year
from an estimated 4.4 percent this year.  “Industry had the biggest growth in the second quarter of
4.9 percent, followed by agriculture with an increase of 3.4
percent,” the institute said in the statement. “Net exports
had a negative impact on the GDP as imports grew faster than
exports.”  Romanian industrial sales rose 13.5 percent in July and
fell 4.2 percent on the month, the office said in a separate
statement today.  Growth Estimates  The IMF and EU expect Romania’s economy to grow 1.5 percent
in 2011 after shrinking 1.3 percent last year.  “Romania’s growth estimates still seem realistic for this
year,” Lucian Croitoru, an adviser to central bank Governor
Mugur Isarescu said in a phone interview yesterday. “Problems
may occur if the slowdown continues in 2012. Then, the
government may need to take additional measures because the
planned reduction in the  budget deficit  will be much difficult
to achieve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  