-- 
Rothschild-Backed Agrifirma Considers Brazil IPO For ‘Unique’ Investments

-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 
2011-09-06T17:07:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/rothschild-backed-agrifirma-plans-ipo-in-brazil-to-pay-for-farmland-deals.html
Agrifirma Brasil Agropecuaria Ltda. ,
a Brazilian farmland company backed by financier  Jacob Rothschild , may sell shares and debt to pay for “unique”
investment opportunities in  Latin America ’s largest economy.  The company may sell stock as early as next year, said
Chief Executive Officer Julio Bestani, who declined to comment
on how much the company may raise. The company isn’t likely to
seek to raise capital in an initial public offering this year
given the economic situation in  Europe  and the U.S., he said.  “We plan to sell shares on the BM&FBovespa as soon as
possible” to fund future investments, Bestani said yesterday in
a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. The company will “for
sure consider future debt sales,” he said, without elaborating.  Agrifirma, based in  Sao Paulo , buys scrubland and
transforms it into farmland to plant soybean, corn and cotton.
It owns or leases 70,000 hectares (173,000 acres) of land in
 Brazil , an area about the size of the city of  Chicago .  The company is controlled by a private equity fund managed
by Sao Paulo-based BRZ Investimentos, which on Aug. 31 injected
$82 million to gain an undisclosed stake. Genagro Ltd., whose
shareholders include Rothschild, has a minority stake.  More Acquisitions  Agrifirma is looking for more land to acquire in Brazil.  “Brazil has unique conditions in terms of quality of the
land, availability of agricultural land and water resources,”
said Bestani, a former chief financial officer for Adecoagro SA.  Adecoagro, backed by billionaire investor  George Soros ,
rose $314 million in an initial public offering in the U.S. last
January after pricing it at the bottom of the range. The
Luxembourg-based company plans to use proceeds to build a sugar
and ethanol processing plant in Brazil and to buy farmland.  Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index entered a  bear market  on
July 27 after declining 20 percent from its bull-market peak in
November.  At least nine companies have shelved IPOs in Brazil
this year, data compiled by Bloomberg and the securities
regulator show. Los Grobo SA,  Argentina ’s second-biggest soybean
producer, suspended its Brazil IPO plans in July.  Copersucar SA, the Brazilian sugar-trading cooperative that
accounts for 10 percent of global sugar exports, canceled in
August what could have been Brazil’s largest IPO in two years.
BrasilAgro - Cia. Brasileira de Propriedades Agricolas, a
Brazilian farmland company, canceled plans to sell additional
shares in May.  Main Shareholder  Agrifirma’s main shareholder, the Brasil Agronegocio FIP
private equity fund, has Brazil’s development bank, known as
BNDES, and pension funds among investors, said a spokeswoman for
BRZ Investimentos, who can’t be named because of company policy.  Brazil, the world’s second-largest producer of soybeans
after the U.S., harvested 75.3 million tons of the oilseed this
year, up from 68.7 million tons a year ago. The country, the
world’s third-biggest corn producer after the U.S. and  China ,
produced 56.3 million tons of corn, up from 56 million tons.  Soybean futures for November delivery dropped 31.75 cents,
or 2.2 percent, to $14.14 a bushel at 11:26 a.m. in Chicago.
Before today, the price gained 43 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 