-- 
Roubini: Slowdown Brings Forward New Crisis

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-06T16:28:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/roubini-says-global-economic-slowdown-accelerating-next-financial-crisis.html
Nouriel Roubini , co-founder and
chairman of Roubini Global Economics LLC, said the current
slowdown in the world economy has brought forward the timing of
a new financial crisis.  “I thought a few months ago that the perfect storm would
be 2013,” Roubini said in an interview in London today. “But
now, the economic weakness in the U.S.,  euro zone  and the U.K.
is front loaded. So we’re going to double dip earlier. The
climax of it could be 2013, or it could be already earlier. It
depends on what policy tools are available.”  Three years after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., financial shares in  Europe  are under assault and the cost
of insuring bank debt is at records as the global recovery
falters and the euro-region crisis weighs on the economy.
There’s a 60 percent probability that most advanced economies
will fall into a recession, while authorities are running out of
options to provide emergency support, said Roubini, also a
professor at New York University’s Stern School of Business.  “You need to restore economic growth, not five years from
now, you need to restore it today,” Roubini said. “In the
short term, we need to do massive stimulus, otherwise there’s
going to be another Great Depression. Things are getting worse
and the big difference between now and a few years ago is that
this time around we’re running out of policy bullets.”  The economist said another financial crisis “is already
manifesting itself” in developed economies.  Cash Holdings  Roubini said if he had large amounts of money to invest, he
would “mostly keep it in cash,” especially in dollars, as the
U.S. currency tends to strengthen during financial crises. He
said he would also favor government bonds of countries with
small budget deficits and low public debt, such as Canada and
 Australia , and avoid stocks and commodities.  “If we see a nasty global recession, then risky assets,
starting with equities, are going to hurt and going to hurt big
time,” Roubini said.  Roubini predicted a bubble in U.S. housing prices before
the market peaked in 2006. His forecasts haven’t all been
accurate. When the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell to a 12-year
low on March 9, 2009, he said it probably would drop to 600 or
lower by the end of that year. Instead, the U.S. equity
benchmark gained 65 percent for the rest of 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
John Fraher in  London  at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  