-- 
Russia to Fortify Military Ties With Allies to Preempt Revolts

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-09-06T08:22:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/russia-to-fortify-military-ties-with-allies-to-preempt-revolts.html
Russia  and six former Soviet states
plan to bolster their political, law-enforcement and military
alliance to protect each other from the kind of uprisings that
toppled regimes in Tunisia, Egypt and  Libya .  “The events in North Africa opened our eyes to many
things,” Nikolai Bordyuzha, general secretary of the  Collective
Security Treaty Organization , said in an interview in the Tajik
capital, Dushanbe, Sept. 3. “We must reflect on what happened
there and develop means of defense.”  The protests this year against authoritarian rulers
unseated governments in Tunisia, Egypt and Libya and sparked
unrest in other countries in the  Middle East  and North Africa.
The U.S. and the European Union imposed sanctions on nations
such as Belarus where opposition activists have been imprisoned.  Russia is seeking to bolster its influence in the former
 Soviet Union , opposing the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s
expansion into eastern  Europe  and vying with the U.S. and Europe
for central Asian oil and gas.  The alliance of former Soviet states agreed to create “a
mechanism to assist the legitimately elected leadership of a
country to protect constitutional order,” according to
Bordyuzha. The cooperation may involve political, law-
enforcement or military support, he said.  The  group , which also includes Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan,
Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Belarus and  Armenia , agreed last year to
set up peacekeeping units and re-equip a rapid-reaction force.
Next, it will target potential uprisings from within the group,
particularly after foreign troops carried out strikes against
forces loyal to Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  on the basis of a
United Nations resolution, according to Bordyuzha.  ‘Internal Problems’  “The whole crisis-response system that was improved a year
ago is focused on avoiding threats to security and stability,”
he said. “First and foremost, that’s internal problems.”  Former Soviet states, most of which make up the
 Commonwealth of Independent States , have been criticized for
curbing democratic freedoms since the fall of communism.  The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
urged Belarus July 5 to free anti-government protesters detained
during protests. The EU imposed sanctions against the nation in
June, freezing assets of government officials and setting
restrictions on the sale of arms.  President Aleksandr Lukashenko, whose regime was described
by U.S. President  George W. Bush  in 2005 as “the last
dictatorship in Europe,” has been in power since 1994.  ‘Non-Competitive’  Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev, who has been in
power for two decades in the former Soviet Union’s second-
biggest energy producer, won re-election in April with 95.5
percent of the vote. The OSCE said the ballot was characterized
by a lack of opposition candidates and political debate that
made it “non-competitive.”  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  has criticized Europe’s
election watchdog, which refused to monitor Russia’s
presidential vote in 2008, for “dual standards” and applying
“a very politicized approach to the election preparation."  Russia will hold parliamentary polls in December, followed
by a presidential ballot in March.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  risks unleashing
“destructive” forces if the authorities stoke popular anger by
rigging nationwide elections, the Center for Strategic Studies,
a research group that advises the government, said in March.  Every country has the infrastructure necessary to
destabilize the political situation, Bordyuzha said, citing
foreign-controlled media, non-governmental organizations and
professional revolutionaries as examples.  “If you can harness this potential, you can influence the
situation in any country,” he said. “Even in the most
prosperous country there is a large group of people that is
unhappy about something. You just need to use that potential.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow
at   iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Balazs Penz at
   bpenz@bloomberg.net  