-- 
South Africa Borrowing Costs Slide to Lowest Since 2009 on Growth Concerns

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-09-06T14:54:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/s-africa-25-year-bond-yield-drops-to-lowest-in-2-1-2-years-at-auction.html
South Africa ’s borrowing costs fell
to the lowest level since February 2009 at the sale of 25-year
bonds on speculation a slowing global economy will prompt the
central bank to cut  interest rates  from their 30-year low.  The Pretoria-based Reserve Bank sold 1.1 billion rand of
6.25 securities due 2036 at the weekly government debt auction
at an average yield of 7.96 percent, the lowest since Feb. 21,
2009, and 23 basis points, or 0.23 percentage points, lower than
at the previous auction on Aug. 26. The yield fell five basis
points on the secondary market to 7.97 percent at 4:45 p.m. in
Johannesburg.  The yield on the government 25-year bond has dropped 113
basis points since March 30 as investors bought the country’s
higher-yielding assets on bets the central bank will lower its
benchmark rate from 5.5 percent. Global funds have purchased a
net 53.8 billion rand ($7.6 billion) of South African bonds this
year, even as they sold a net 7.53 billion rand of shares,
according to JSE Ltd. data on Bloomberg.  “It is difficult to fight the bullish bias in the rates
market as long as the data stays weak, which is very likely to
be the case for the remainder of the year,” Rand Merchant Bank
analysts led by Theuns de Wet said in an emailed note.  The  Reserve Bank  also sold 1 billion rand of 6.5 percent
notes due 2041 today at an average yield of 8.01 percent, the
lowest in a year. The yield was 49 basis points lower than at
the previous auction on Aug. 26, according to the Reserve Bank’s
data on Bloomberg.  Rate Bets  Growth in South Africa’s economy, the continent’s biggest,
dropped to an annualized 1.3 percent in the second quarter, its
slowest pace in almost two years, as manufacturing and mining
output plunged.  Traders have boosted bets on rate cuts. Forward-rate
agreements starting in March, which investors use to lock in
borrowing costs, dropped one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, today to 5.13 percent, the lowest in at least 10 years.  Finance ministers from  Germany ,  Finland  and the Netherlands
are scheduled to meet today to discuss a Finnish demand for
collateral in a bailout for  Greece . Italy’s Senate is set to
debate an austerity plan amid a strike called by the nation’s
biggest union. Growth in U.S. service industries slowed in
August to the least in more than a year, economists said before
a report today.  “The focus will remain on developments in the euro zone,”
Tradition Analytics researchers led by Johannesburg-based
Quinten Bertenshaw said in a research note. “Foreigners have
held firm in their long local bond positions through the recent
 risk aversion . Outside of a major  credit event , local bonds will
remain firm.”  Fed Meeting  Pacific Investment Management Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc
and Royal Bank of Canada said last week they expect the  Federal
Reserve  to announce plans this month to raise the average
maturity of its bond portfolio by selling shorter-term debt and
reinvesting proceeds from maturing securities into longer-term
bonds. Thirty-year Treasury yields dropped as low as 3.21
percent today, a level not seen since January 2009.  “Some  hedge funds , banks and traders are already starting
to bet on yield curve flattening and I think this is supporting
our longer rates,” said Michael Grobler, an analyst at
Afrifocus Securities in  Cape Town .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  