-- 
Sales Set to Slip to Seven-Year Low as Issuers Curb Spending: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 
2011-09-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/sales-set-to-slip-to-seven-year-low-as-issuers-curb-spending-muni-credit.html
Municipal bond sales this week and
last are set to be the lowest for the period around Labor Day in
seven years as issuers curb borrowing for infrastructure work.  States and cities will sell a combined $5 billion of long-
term tax-exempt debt in the nine market days of Aug. 29 through
Sept. 9, the least in the period since 2004, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Local and state governments have reduced payrolls by
671,000 positions since August 2008, and the U.S. failed to add
any jobs in August, discouraging officials from borrowing for
roads, bridges and other projects, said Matt Fabian, a managing
director at Municipal Market Advisors, a research company in
Concord,  Massachusetts .  “When you have that kind of job loss, you have to assume
that construction spending is not on the front burner,” Fabian
said in a telephone interview. “It underscores the issuers’
austerity trends and the scarcity of new-issuance trends that
we’ll be seeing for awhile.”  Shrinking revenue prompted 69 percent of U.S. cities to
delay or cancel infrastructure spending in 2010, according to a
 National League of Cities  survey of local finance officers.  Cities also lowered spending with personnel cuts, service
reductions, changes to health-care benefits and public-safety
curbs, the October report showed. Eighty percent of finance
officers forecast their cities will be less able to meet needs
in 2011 than in 2010, the survey said.  Yearly Issuance  Total municipal issuance so far this year has been $144.6
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, $107.8 billion
less than the same period in 2010, when federally subsidized
Build America Bonds encouraged borrowing.  Tax-exempt yields will fall further below their 2011 lows
after Treasuries rallied last week in response to the August
jobs report, Fabian said. U.S. 30-year yields fell to the lowest
since January 2009 as the monthly employment data were the
weakest since September 2010.  Yields on top-rated 10-year municipals closed last week at
2.23 percent, following a 2011 low of 2.17 percent on Aug. 23.
The yearly average is 2.87 percent. Yields on top-rated 30-year
tax-exempts fell to 3.82 percent last week, near the lowest of
the year. The 2011 average is 4.52 percent.  The low yields are discouraging some investors: Municipal
bond mutual funds posted $282 million of outflows last week, the
sixth consecutive week of withdrawals.  More Incentive  Issuers may have to offer higher yields to lure buyers,
especially if issuance picks up, said Gary Pollack, head of bond
trading at Deutsche Bank AG’s private-wealth management unit in
 New York .  “As we sink lower, it’s going to test the market’s ability
to hold these levels, given the absolutely unattractive low
levels of  interest rates ,” said Pollack, who oversees $12
billion of tax-exempt and taxable assets.  This week’s issues will be led by Harris County,  Texas ,
which includes Houston. It plans $510 million of tax-exempt
sales-tax-backed bonds to expand a light rail system and buy new
buses. The debt is rated Aa2 by Moody’s Investors Service, its
third-highest grade.  The New York State Thruway Authority will offer $350
million of personal-income-tax revenue bonds to finance highway
and bridge projects. The bonds are rated AAA,  Standard & Poor’s 
highest rating.  Fulton County,  Georgia , which encompasses Atlanta and is
the state’s most populous county, will sell $257.6 million of
water and sewer revenue refunding bonds. The bonds are rated Aa3
by Moody’s, the fourth-highest grade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  