-- 
Samaras Vies With Papandreou as Men of Amherst College Contest Greek Fate

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 
2011-09-07T10:37:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/samaras-vies-with-papandreou-as-men-of-amherst-college-contest-greek-fate.html
At Amherst College’s Pratt Hall in
1970 and 1971, a handful of students from Greece spent countless
hours decrying the military junta ruling their country.  George Papandreou , a bluejean-clad freshman whose father as
prime minister had founded the country’s Socialist Party, would
agree with Antonis Samaras, a sophomore living upstairs who
favored blue blazers, that the regime had to go. Friends since
high school in Athens, they were of one mind as they talked in
the dormitory and over pizza in nearby South Hadley.  “Had there not been a junta, it’s possible George and
Antonis wouldn’t have forged the friendship that they did,”
said Philip Tsiaras, who lived in the dorm room next to
Papandreou’s and is now an international  artist . “They would
have their political lines already drawn for them depending on
who was in power in  Greece .”  Today, those political lines couldn’t be more divisive.
Papandreou, now prime minister, is guiding Greece through a debt
upheaval whose aftershocks have spread throughout the European
Union. Samaras, the leader of the political opposition, is
trying to block the premier’s agenda every step of the way. The
two will provide details of their economic agendas in the city
of Thessaloniki over 10 days starting this weekend.  Samaras has set his New Democracy Party against both
packages of austerity measures that the EU and international
lenders required in return for new loans, the creation of a
bailout fund and a bond-exchange and debt-buyback program. He
hasn’t changed his position even after political pressure from
leaders such as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel .  No Compromises  “He’s determined and stubborn,” said Theodore Vardas,
head of the Greek retail association SELPE, who has known
Samaras for 40 years. “When he believes something, it doesn’t
change. He doesn’t compromise.”  Greek two-year notes extended a decline today that pushed
yields to a euro-era record of 53.27 percent. Bonds have slumped
this year, partly because politicians have struggled to agree on
a united front to fight the crisis. They lost 27 percent through
Sept. 5, while German debt has returned 7.4 percent, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies.  The cost of insuring against default on Greek government
debt was near a record today at 2,650 basis points, up from
1,010 at the end of 2010, CMA data show. It signaled an 88
percent chance of default in five years.  Fighting With Vehemence  Samaras would need to embrace the spirit of compromise
should he ever come to power, according to George Karvounis, a
risk manager at the Federal Bank of the  Middle East  in Nicosia.  “If he gained power and his principles were wrong, the
vehemence with which he fights for what he believes could lead
the country to the wrong path,” Karvounis said.  Samaras’s stance hasn’t won him public favor. When asked
who was best suited to be prime minister, 32.8 percent of
respondents in a Kapa research survey chose Papandreou while
28.9 percent picked Samaras. More than 35 percent said neither.
The  poll , published in To Vima newspaper, surveyed 1,023 people
on Sept. 1 and had a margin of error of 3.06 percentage points.  “He continues missing opportunities to position himself as
a formidable leader of the opposition,” said Jens Bastian, the
Alpha Bank Fellow for Southeast Europe at St. Antony’s College
at the University of Oxford. He isn’t “the captain steering the
ship of the opposition parties in parliament,” Bastian said.  Athens  College  Like Papandreou, Samaras comes from a political dynasty. He
is the grandson of one parliament member and nephew of another.
His great-grandmother, Penelope Delta, a children’s writer,
committed suicide on the day in April 1941 that the Nazis
entered Athens.  In addition to  Amherst , he and Papandreou both attended
Athens College, an elite high school in Psychiko near the
capital. Other alumni include George’s father Andreas, himself a
prime minister in the 1980s and 1990s, and parliament member
Kyriakos Mitsotakis. The school was co-founded by one of
Samaras’s great-grandfathers.  Samaras grew up among the well-connected families of
Athens, playing tennis and going to parties at private clubs,
said Lia Daniolou, a  New Democracy  party official who has known
him since their childhood days. He won the Greek Teen Tennis
Championship at the age of 17.  “I could see he had the qualities of a sportsman,” said
Dinos Arcoumanis, who used to ride the school bus with Samaras
and is now deputy vice chancellor at  City University London .
“At that critical age, what sports can do is give you self-
confidence.”  Playing Tennis  Samaras took his self-confidence and tennis skills to
Amherst in  Massachusetts , where he distinguished himself, said
Walter Nicholson, who taught him in at least three economics
classes. The promising student later graduated magna cum laude
with a major in economics.  “He had a very good forehand,” Nicholson said in a phone
interview, adding that they played four or five times a year.
“He was one of the most charming students I ever taught.”  Samaras, 60, and Papandreou, 59, aren’t the only leading
Greek politicians who have attended Amherst. Also in the club is
Foreign Minister  Stavros Lambrinidis , who graduated in 1984.  The 190-year-old college of about 1,700 students has
produced such world leaders and notables as President  Calvin Coolidge  (1895), Prince Albert of  Monaco  (1981) and Nobel
laureate Harold Varmus (1961).  Papandreou went on to earn a master’s degree in sociology
from the  London  School of Economics in 1977 after graduating
from Amherst cum laude as an independent scholar. Samaras
enrolled in  Harvard Business School  in  Boston .  Blazer-Wearing  “It’s difficult to say who is better educated in
economics, but that’s not the issue,” said Arcoumanis. “You
learn all this in politics because politics and economics are
two sides of the same coin.”  Marshall Toplansky, a Harvard classmate, recalled that
Samaras always wore the double-breasted blue blazer when he went
out in the 1970s, when few students were so dressed. Papandreou
at Amherst, by contrast, favored blue jeans and flannel shirts,
and carried a guitar, said Tsiaras, who remembers Samaras as
“center-right.”  Samaras “was very passionate about the issues he was
dealing with, no matter what the issue was,” said Toplansky,
who now lives in  Irvine ,  California , and runs  Wise Window , a
technology company. “He was very interested in Greece and the
future of Greece, and in wanting to go back and make a
difference.”  Greek Treats  At a dinner with classmates at a Greek restaurant near
Harvard Square, Samaras made sure everyone knew what dishes they
were eating and checked to see that they enjoyed the food,
Toplansky said. If not, he ordered replacement dishes, he said.  The year after Samaras graduated from  Harvard  in 1976, he
was elected to parliament for New Democracy at the age of 26. He
served as both foreign minister and finance minister before he
turned 40.  His unwillingness to compromise, though, cost him his post
and, temporarily, his party. After the 1991 breakup of
 Yugoslavia  induced former republic Macedonia to petition for
United Nations membership, Samaras led the fight to block
international recognition of the name. His view was that it
referred to the ancient geographical region of Macedonia, or
most of northern Greece.  While he was representing the broad party line, his
outspokenness led then-Prime Minister Constantine Mitsotakis to
replace him in April 1992. About a year later, Samaras set up
his own political party, which consistently failed to win
significant numbers of votes over the next 11 years.  Opening the Museum  He rejoined the  New Democratic Party  in 2004, won a seat in
parliament in 2007 and became culture minister in January 2009.  In that job, Samaras arrived at work at 6:30 a.m. and left
at 11 p.m., said longtime friend Daniolou, who worked with him
at the ministry in the public-relations office. His principal
focus was on completing the  New Acropolis Museum , a project that
had been stagnating for three decades because of delays caused
by political disputes, court cases and archaeological finds that
slowed construction.  Building the museum was crucial to Greece’s case that the
Elgin Marbles -- known in Greece as the Parthenon Marbles --
should return from the  British Museum  and to a proper home.
Construction was mostly complete, though the opening had been
delayed repeatedly.  Just days after his appointment, Samaras called Daniolou
and asked her to work for him. He told her he wanted the museum
to open in March. When she expressed doubt, he said he was
willing to push the date back -- to June.  ‘Killing Ourselves’  “He put everyone to work,” she said. “We were killing
ourselves. He said, ‘I don’t care, we’re going to do it.’”  Three nights before the opening, staff told Samaras the
café couldn’t open because there were no waiters and no
equipment, Daniolou said. Samaras made some calls, and soon was
choosing china, pricing food and wine on the menu and correcting
English translations. The museum and café opened on time.  Samaras became opposition leader when Papandreou defeated
Konstantinos Karamanlis in an October 2009 election, and the
debt crisis exploded. Papandreou, who campaigned on pledges of
higher wages, was forced to reverse course and embrace
austerity. Savings alone failed to restore Greece’s finances,
leading to a 110 billion-euro ($154 billion) bailout package in
May 2010 coupled with spending cuts and steps to raise revenue.  Five-Year Plan  As the crisis engulfed Ireland and then  Portugal , EU and
IMF officials questioned Papandreou’s progress on overhauling
the economy amid concerns the country wouldn’t be able to return
to debt markets.  They told him to outline a five-year plan of budget cuts
and state asset sales that would ensure the country got the next
installment, needed to pay bond redemptions, wages and pensions
over summer, as well as a new funding package.  Another part of the request: get support across parties.
Samaras declined. His intransigence was on public display in
June this year at a meeting of European self-styled  “center-
right”  leaders to discuss the second bailout. They pressured
him to join with Papandreou and push a 78 billion-euro package
of austerity measures in return for European aid to prevent a
Greek default.  He lashed out at the “current policy mix” for relying too
much on tax increases. In doing so, he was defying Merkel, who
had appealed to the Greek opposition “to live up to its
historic responsibility.”  ‘Friendly Discussion’  “We had a friendly discussion, but also one that said
seriously in such a situation everyone has to unite in a
country,” Merkel told reporters on June 23, the day of the
meeting. “It worked in Portugal, it worked in Ireland and
that’s why we made the case for it working in Greece.”  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who also
chairs euro-area finance meetings, was more blunt.  “I couldn’t take part in the meeting, which should be
good news to Mr. Samaras, since I would have insistently called
on him to give up his negative stance,” Juncker said that day.  Bastian, the Oxford academic, said the occasion provided an
opportunity for Samaras to “define his standing as a
constructive opposition. He failed that test big time.” Samaras
“chose to score cheap points in the domestic politics of
Greece,” Bastian said.  To Vardas, the childhood friend, Samaras’s stance was a
matter of principle.  “He could’ve gone to the Europeans and said what they
wanted to hear,” he said. Instead, Samaras “took the cost and
said no.”  Unity Government?  Earlier that month, Samaras declined a Papandreou offer to
form a national unity government. During a June 15 telephone
call initiated by the prime minister, Samaras suggested
Papandreou step down and that neither of them should participate
in the next government, according to two people familiar with
Samaras’s offer. The Papandreou side said the prime minister was
willing to depart once an agreement on a specific agenda with
clear goals was reached.  In a national address that night, Papandreou accused
Samaras of playing politics and said he would form a new
government and then seek a vote of confidence in parliament.
Samaras retorted that Papandreou needed to decide whether he was
able to govern and accused the premier of backtracking on the
offer to form a unity government.  “The question now is whether Mr. Papandreou can govern,”
Samaras said. “If he can, then he wrongly sought support from
us. If he can’t, then he has to resort to elections. The country
can’t remain in this uncertainty.”  Confidence Vote  Papandreou won the confidence vote and then backing for the
78 billion-euro, five-year package. He faced three parliamentary
votes in the space of a week to secure further international
aid, stemming defections from members of his Pasok party all the
while.  “In a time of crisis, you made a choice that forces you
into the same camp as those who are betting on Greece’s
failure,” Papandreou told Samaras during the debate over the
confidence vote on June 21.  The measure passed, 155-143, with Samaras voting against,
as police used tear gas to disperse thousands of anti-austerity
protesters in the streets of Athens. The vote paved the way for
European leaders to agree on a new bailout package on July 21.  Papandreou and Samaras will lay out their visions starting
Sept. 10 at the annual international fair in Thessaloniki in the
north, where national leaders try to set the tone for the coming
parliamentary session.  Object, Agree  They aren’t likely to change their minds.  “It’s a classic case of ‘object in opposition and agree in
power,’” said  Stuart Thomson , a fixed-income  fund manager  in
Glasgow at Ignis Asset Management, which oversees $125 billion,
in a telephone interview. “The markets will assume that if put
in the same position of the current Greek leadership, he would
comply.”  Thomson said Samaras “was responding to popular
opposition, to the cuts, to the austerity. You cannot criticize
a politician for responding to popular demands.”  Papandreou was philosophical about his college friend
during a July 19 interview at his office in Athens.  “We have a longstanding personal relationship,” he said.
In politics, “there we do our sparring,” as well as seek
consensus, he said.  “Sometime, after a decade, or so, we may sit down over a
glass of wine and think back and say, let’s assess how things
have gone in Greece,” Papandreou said.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net 
Janet Lorin in New York 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net . 