-- 
Sanofi Sets New Goals After Genzyme, Aims for EPS Growth of More Than 5%

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 
2011-09-06T16:01:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/sanofi-sets-new-goals-after-genzyme-aims-for-eps-growth-of-more-than-5-.html
Sanofi, France’s biggest drugmaker,
said it plans to increase earnings by more than 5 percent
annually and trim costs by 2 billion euros ($2.8 billion) in the
next four years.  Sales should grow by at least 5 percent a year from 2012 to
2015 as Sanofi begins to move beyond the loss of revenue from
patent expirations, the Paris-based company said in an e-mailed
statement. Earnings per share will increase more than revenue,
the company said, without being specific. Sanofi, which hosts a
seminar today to discuss its strategy, also said it will
increase the percentage of profit it pays out in dividends.  Today’s forecasts are the first from the company that
include this year’s $20.1 billion acquisition of Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based  Genzyme Corp. (GENZ) , the biggest purchase by Chief
Executive Officer Chris Viehbacher since he joined in 2008. The
cost cuts will come from the integration of Genzyme, which will
contribute $700 million, as well as “new initiatives.”  “The focus has shifted to 2015 as people try to gain a
perspective on the dynamic of the company,” Viehbacher said on
a conference call with reporters. “We are essentially pointing
out a new investment thesis. It is first and foremost based on a
return to growth for Sanofi following the patent cliff.”  Viehbacher began downsizing Sanofi’s research and
development operations after taking over in 2008. Even after
shutting plants, dropping the least promising projects and
reshuffling jobs, the 51-year-old executive said a year ago
Sanofi’s research and development is “a work in progress.”  New Medicines  Six new medicines will be presented to regulators between
July and next March, the company said in today’s statement. As
many as 19 new drugs may be introduced by 2015, Sanofi said.  “The key announcements are all pretty positive,” Pierre Corby, an analyst at Aurel BCG in Paris who recommends buying
Sanofi stock, said in e-mailed comments. “Tight cost control
will allow for savings and better shareholder payout.”  Sanofi rose 80 cents, or 1.7 percent, to 48.88 euros at the
5:30 p.m. close of trading in Paris, paring a 3.1 percent gain
as stocks declined across Europe. The stock has returned 6.9
percent this year including reinvested dividends, compared with
a 1.8 percent return for the 17-company Bloomberg Europe
Pharmaceutical Index. Sanofi has gained even as the company
faces generic competition to its biggest-selling treatments,
including the Lovenox and Plavix blood thinners.  Sanofi had forecast in July 2009 that earnings in 2013
would be equal to 2008 levels, excluding acquisitions. The
company confirmed the target today.  Sanofi’s Radar Screen  Viehbacher has spent about $23 billion on acquisitions
since January 2009. The executive has been building up Sanofi’s
diabetes, oncology, consumer health-care, emerging markets and
animal health businesses to help reduce the company’s dependence
on patented pharmaceuticals.  Acquisitions will continue since there are “always things
outside the company that we can do to enhance our business,”
Viehbacher said at the seminar. Sanofi aims to “find stuff that
isn’t on anybody else’s radar screen,” he said.  The company sees the potential for acquisitions of as much
as 2 billion euros, Chief Financial Officer Jerome Contamine
said.  “You have to look harder” to find good deals, Viehbacher
said. In countries such as India, sellers have high expectations
for the price they will receive, he said. In Vietnam and some
other countries in Asia “there is a little less activity,” he
said.  Multaq, Iniparib  Pressure on Sanofi increased after its Multaq heart
treatment, cleared for sale in 2009, was linked to possible
liver complications and a promising cancer drug, called
iniparib, failed in a key clinical study this year.  Sanofi’s research and development operations are “still
underperforming,” David Evans, an analyst at UniCredit Bank in
London, wrote in a Sept. 2 note to clients. “We believe R&D
output is essential to maintain any long-term competitive
advantage, even in emerging markets.”  The takeover of Genzyme, the largest maker of medicines for
rare genetic disorders, was engineered to give Sanofi access to
innovative treatments that are less vulnerable to generic
competition. Cheaper copies of Sanofi drugs wiped 778 million
euros from sales in the second quarter, the drugmaker said on
July 28. The company reported revenue of 8.35 billion euros in
the three months ended June 30.  Sanofi also said today it plans to raise its dividend
payout to 50 percent by 2014 from 35 percent last year and seize
opportunities to buy back shares.  “Many investors had been hoping Chris Viehbacher would
step up cash returned to shareholders,” Tim Anderson, an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, wrote in a note to clients.
“We view these updates as favorable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  