-- 
Schaeuble Urges Curbs on European Debt to Soothe Global Market ‘Anxiety’

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-09-06T10:30:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/schaeuble-urges-curbs-on-european-debt-to-soothe-global-market-anxiety-.html
German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble called on euro-area governments to fully implement
curbs on debt, saying that only fiscal “solidity” will help
tame financial-market turmoil.  Schaeuble’s comments to lawmakers in Berlin today seek to
raise the pressure on euro-area states to follow Germany and
clamp down on debt to tackle the core cause of the sovereign
crisis that is rocking markets worldwide. Financial markets are
in “a state of anxiety,” requiring “a new mentality” rather
than short-term stimulus, he said.  “Markets are not the problem, excesses are,” Schaeuble
said in parliament’s first session after the summer recess, as
he opened a debate on the 2012 budget. The constitutionally
mandated debt ceiling enacted by Germany and now being emulated
by France and Spain is “of fundamental importance,” he said.
Only “financial-policy solidity will win the confidence of
markets.”  Schaeuble sought to assuage lawmaker concerns that the
Greek government is reneging on the terms of its rescue, saying
that Greece won’t get its next bailout installment unless it
meets austerity goals set under the aid package. Chancellor
Angela Merkel took the same message to a meeting of coalition
lawmakers in Berlin last night, two party officials said on
condition of anonymity because the talks were held in private.  ‘No Longer Willing’  “The basis for all these programs is that we provide aid
under certain conditions,” Klaus-Peter Flosbach, CDU financial-
policy spokesman in parliament, said in an interview. “There
can be a situation in which we are no longer willing to help
when the conditions aren’t met.”  Merkel’s coalition has to appease voter anger at government
moves to prevent a euro-region breakup by putting more
taxpayers’ money on the line. Merkel’s CDU suffered its worst-
ever result in an election in her home state on Sept. 4.  The chancellor is due to address the lower house tomorrow
after the constitutional court hands down a ruling on a legal
challenge to Germany’s participation in last year’s 110 billion-
euro ($156 billion) Greek bailout and the 750 billion-euro
European rescue fund. The lower house will then hold a first
reading on Sept. 8 of a bill to overhaul the European Financial
Stability Facility, including granting it sovereign bond-buying
powers and raising Germany’s share of loan guarantees to 211
billion euros from 123 billion euros.  EFSF Abstentions  Twelve lawmakers voted against the bill and seven abstained
during a closed-door test run before a plenary-session ballot on
Sept. 29, one of the officials said. Six lawmakers from Merkel’s
Free Democratic coalition partner withheld their support at a
separate caucus meeting, Deutschlandfunk radio reported.  Merkel needs 311 ballots in favor of the changes from the
620 lawmakers sitting in parliament’s lower chamber, with her
CDU/CSU and FDP bloc comprising 330 lawmakers. The opposition
Social Democrats and the Greens have indicated they’ll support
the bill, ensuring it will pass.  “Expect Merkel to work very hard to turn some of the
skeptics around in the next few weeks,” Holger Schmieding,
chief economist at Joh. Berenberg Gossler & Co. in London, said
in a note today. “If need be, she may even tie the Euro vote to
a vote of confidence so that dissidents within her coalition
would risk bringing down the government,” he said. “Amid all
the noise, a potential loss of German nerves is perhaps the 
ultimate tail risk we need to watch in the euro debt crisis.”  Schaeuble said that spending cuts are “unavoidable” for
the euro area’s indebted states and joint European debt
issuance, or euro bonds, would trigger a loss of confidence in
the currency.  ‘Mistaken Sense’  “Introducing euro bonds without institutional changes
would show a mistaken sense of solidarity at best,” he said.
Until the European Union is organized more like a single
country, “we cannot and must not pool the interest-rate risk.”  German aims to be “the anchor of stability and engine of
growth in the euro area” are borne out by increasing domestic
investment and hence economic growth. The German economy,
Europe’s biggest, will grow about 3 percent this year even after
a weak second quarter, he said. “When we take this path, we win
the best way to sustainable growth and stability.”  “We took a lot of criticism last year” for resisting
pressure from other governments to stimulate the German economy,
Schaeuble said. “Now it turns out we were right.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at  jhertling@bloomberg. 