-- 
Scuttle ‘Unwarranted’ Fatigue Rules, Trucking Group Tells Obama

-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 
2011-09-06T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/scuttle-unwarranted-fatigue-rules-trucking-group-tells-obama.html
A trucking regulation on President
Barack Obama’s list of billion-dollar policy proposals should be
scuttled because existing rules are cost-effective and work
well, the American Trucking Associations said.  Current Transportation Department regulations on driving-
time limits have “helped trucking achieve unprecedented
highway-safety gains,” David Osiecki, the Arlington, Virginia-
based trade group’s senior vice president of policy and
regulatory affairs, wrote in a Sept. 2 letter. The new rules
would “impose new and unwarranted costs,” he said.  Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood should scrap the
proposed rules to comply with White House Chief of Staff  William Daley ’s instructions to cabinet members to make economic growth
and  job creation  a guiding principle in shaping regulation,
Osiecki said in the letter. He addressed it to Cass Sunstein,
administrator of the White House Office of Information and
Regulatory Affairs.  Obama listed seven proposals, including two for the
trucking industry, in an Aug. 30 letter to House Speaker  John Boehner , responding to the Ohio Republican’s request for pending
regulations that would cost business $1 billion or more. Another
trucking group, the Owner-Operator Independent Drivers
Association, said Sept. 1 those initiatives are now so
politically sensitive they may not survive.  High Scrutiny  If the Transportation Department doesn’t kill its hours-of-
service proposal, Sunstein, who reviews all regulations for cost
effectiveness for the White House, should subject it to “a very
high level of scrutiny,” Osiecki said.  The president asked the Environmental Protection Agency
Sept. 1 to withdraw the most expensive proposal on the list, an
effort to reduce ozone pollution that was estimated to cost $19
billion to $90 billion.  The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration , carved out
of an office within the  Federal Highway Administration  under a
1999 law, has been trying to revise work rules for truck drivers
for more than a decade.  The agency is proposing to scale back the maximum number of
hours behind the wheel to 10 a day, from 11, and mandate
electronic data recorders to keep track of drivers’ hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  