-- 
Senate Panel Led by Democrats Cuts Obama’s Clean-Energy Programs

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-09-06T22:18:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/senate-panel-led-by-democrats-cuts-obama-s-clean-energy-programs.html
A U.S. Senate spending panel
approved $31.6 billion in energy and water-related programs,
about $5 billion less than President  Barack Obama  requested, as
Congress seeks to cut the federal deficit.  The Senate Appropriations Energy and Water Development
Subcommittee’s measure for fiscal 2012 is also about $57 million
less than the current-year budget for the programs. The full
Senate Appropriations Committee is scheduled to vote tomorrow on
the proposal, which would provide about $1 billion more than
corresponding legislation passed July 15 by the Republican-led
House.  “Overall I believe we have developed a well-balanced and
responsible bill,” Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California
Democrat and the subcommittee’s chairman, said today before the
measure was approved on a voice vote.  The Senate measure provides $200 million for alternative-
energy loan guarantees that have come under scrutiny after a
recipient, Solyndra Inc. of Fremont,  California , said last week
it would seek bankruptcy reorganization. The company filed today
for protection from creditors in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
Wilmington,  Delaware .  Solyndra, which Obama visited in May 2010, borrowed $527.8
million against a $535 million Energy Department loan guarantee,
according to court papers. Five U.S. companies have been awarded
$1.56 billion in guarantees through the program.  The solar-panel manufacturer’s financial troubles raise
questions about the process for awarding guarantees, Feinstein
told reporters after the hearing.  Solyndra’s Failure  “Why isn’t this figured out before you go to loan process,
before you get the president of the  United States  out there?”
Feinstein said. “Solyndra was a big blow, no question.”  The senator described the amount the committee provided for
loan guarantees as “de minimis” and said it was unlikely to
increase.  The Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy, modeled after
a Defense Department program that helped create the Internet,
would receive $250 million under legislation, $300 million less
than Obama sought.  Energy Secretary Steven Chu has described the program as a
“swing for the fences” effort to help new technologies find a
market. The House legislation included $180 million for it.  The panel’s bill also reduced the president’s budget
request for energy-efficiency and renewable-energy programs. It
provides about $1.8 billion, the same level as in fiscal 2011,
for such efforts. Obama sought $3.2 billion. The House provided
$1.3 billion.  No Modular Reactors  The House legislation provided $30.6 billion in funding for
energy- and water-related programs, about $5.9 billion less than
the amount requested by Obama, and about $1 billion less than
the programs received for fiscal 2011.  Feinstein said $584 million that the measure would provide
for the office of nuclear energy should be spent on safety in
light of the meltdowns at the Fukushima Dai-ichi power plant in
 Japan  after a March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  The allotment for the nuclear office is about $142 million
less than it received for fiscal 2011, according to a
subcommittee summary. The House gave the program about $734
million. Unlike the House version, the Senate bill wouldn’t
provide money to develop small, modular nuclear reactors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  