-- 
Serbia, Kosovo Found ‘European’ Fix to Trade Dispute, EU Says

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-09-06T13:31:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/serbia-kosovo-found-european-fix-to-trade-dispute-eu-says.html
Serbia  and Kosovo found a
“European” solution to the trade dispute that threatens to
hamper Serbia’s aim to win European Union candidate status by
year’s end, EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said.  The EU “is very satisfied with the latest agreement on
customs stamps,”  Van Rompuy  said today in Brussels after
meeting Kosovar President Atifete Jahjaga. “These were truly
European solutions to very difficult issues.”  Van Rompuy, who visits the Serbian capital Belgrade on
Sept. 9, said the two former Yugoslav republics need to make
further progress on Kosovo’s telecommunications and energy
systems and agree to take part in regional forums to “bring
both sides closer to the EU.”  Serbia is trying to win EU candidate status this year and
secure financial aid as it struggles to find a compromise
solution for its former province. Tensions increased after
 Kosovo ’s government decided to send special police forces to the
Serb-dominated northern region of Kosovo to seize control of
border crossings there.  Serbia, which refuses to recognize Kosovo’s independence,
and the breakaway region struck an agreement on “status-neutral
documents” on Sept 2., according to the Serbia’s chief
negotiator for Kosovo, Borislav Stefanovic.  Under the compromise, Serbia will recognize stamps on
documents that say “Kosovo Customs” without any state insignia
such as the Kosovo flag or coat-of-arms, he said.  Kosovo, wedged between Serbia, Montenegro, Albania and the
 Republic of Macedonia , declared independence in 2008, nine years
after North Atlantic Treaty Organization troops drove out
Serbian forces from the province. Kosovo is recognized by 22 out
of EU’s 27 members.  Visa-Free Travel  “Both Kosovo and Serbia should soon become members of the
European Union and in this process they have to help each other
as neighbors,” said Jahjaga in Brussels.  Kosovo is the only former Yugoslav republic that has yet to
win visa-free travel to the EU’s Schengen area, which allows
unobstructed travel between members. Serbia,  Montenegro , and
Macedonia won the privilege in 2009 while Albania and Bosnia-
Herzegovina were granted visa-free travel to the Schengen region
in 2010.  Slovenia became a member of the world’s largest trading
bloc in 2004, while Croatia is set to become the 28th EU member
in 2013. Before the trade dispute with Kosovo, Serbia aimed to
gain EU candidate status by year’s end.  -- With assistance from James G. Neuger in Brussels and Misha Savic in Belgrade. Editors: James M. Gomez, Douglas Lytle  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana, Slovenia, at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  