-- 
Service Industries in U.S. Probably Grew at Slowest Pace in More Than Year

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-09-06T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/services-in-u-s-probably-grew-at-slowest-pace-in-19-months.html
Service industries  in the U.S.
probably expanded in August at the slowest pace in more than a
year, showing the recovery is losing momentum, economists said
before a report today.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing
index fell to 51 last month, the lowest level since January
2010, from 52.7 in July, according to the median estimate of 59
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. A reading of 50 is the
dividing line between expansion and contraction in the largest
part of the economy.  Dimming job prospects, slower income growth and rising
pessimism about the economic outlook may sap consumers’ ability
and willingness to spend. Without a pickup among the non-
manufacturing industries that account for about 90 percent of
the economy, the recovery may falter.  “We don’t see any impetus for stronger growth,” said
Scott Anderson, senior economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC 
in  Minneapolis . That “raises the possibility that the economy
stalls out.”  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s report is due at 10 a.m. New
York time. Estimates in the Bloomberg News survey ranged from 49
to 53.5.  The ISM services survey covers industries ranging from
utilities and retailing to health care and finance. Today’s
report follows the group’s Sept. 1 figures that showed
manufacturing expanded in August at the slowest pace since July
2009.  Weaker Sentiment  A struggling labor market and economic growth that slowed
in the first half of the year have weighed on sentiment,
prompting Americans to limit purchases of non-essential goods
and services.  The Conference Board’s index of  consumer confidence  slumped
last month to the lowest level since April 2009, and the
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index has been stuck below minus 40
since the end of February, the level associated with recessions.  Employment unexpectedly stagnated in August as employers
became less sanguine about the strength of the recovery. Private
payrolls, which exclude government agencies, rose 17,000 in
August, the smallest gain since a decrease in February 2010. The
jobless rate held at 9.1 percent, and earnings and hours worked
declined, reducing the income of consumers whose spending
accounts for 70 percent of the economy.  President  Barack Obama  has requested a joint session of
Congress on Sept. 8 to unveil his proposals to promote job
growth. Obama said in a letter to House Speaker  John Boehner 
that the nation faces “unprecedented” economic challenges.  Real Spending  Rising prices have also hurt consumer buying power. An Aug.
29 Commerce Department report showed that the income left after
taking out taxes and adjusting for inflation dropped 0.1 percent
in July, the first decrease since September 2010.  “I continue to see customers who are still struggling,”
Rick Dreiling, chief executive officer of Goodlettsville,
Tennessee-based  Dollar General Corp. (DG)  said in Aug. 30 call with
analysts. “The macroeconomic environment has remained difficult
for consumers who continue to face high unemployment rates, high
gasoline and high food costs.”  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing Index, with
92 members including Staples Inc. and Macy’s Inc., has fallen
8.2 since the end of July.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  