-- 
Toshiba Agrees to Buy Shaw’s 20% Stake in Westinghouse for $1.6 Billion

-- B y   R y a n   W o o   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-09-06T20:16:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/shaw-intends-to-exercise-put-options-to-sell-westinghouse-stake-to-toshiba.html
Toshiba Corp. (6502)  will buy  Shaw Group
Inc. (SHAW) ’s 20 percent stake in nuclear-plant designer Westinghouse
Electric for about $1.6 billion, increasing its share to 87
percent.  Shaw is exercising its option to sell the stake to Toshiba
after a rise in the value of the yen helped to boost its
Westinghouse debt by more than 50 percent during the past five
years, according to a statement yesterday. The option to sell
was part of the companies’ 2006 purchase of Westinghouse.  Toshiba will pay about $1.6 billion for the stake, Shaw
Chief Executive Officer and Chairman James Bernhard said on a
conference call. Toshiba is open to new partners in
Westinghouse, designer of the AP1000 and Advanced Boiling Water
reactor designs, and “several companies” have expressed
interest in investing, the Tokyo-based company said in a
separate  statement .  Toshiba said in May it expects to win 39 reactor orders,
generating 1 trillion yen ($13 billion) in revenue from its
nuclear business in the year ending March 2016. The company has
warned about possible delays in approval of new construction
projects. The U.S. and other nations are reviewing regulations
after a March 11 earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  caused the
worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl.  Toshiba fell 5.1 percent to close at 297 yen yesterday, the
lowest since April 2, 2009, after the Wall Street Journal
reported it was in talks to buy the Shaw stake. Shaw increased
$1.70, or 7.8 percent, to $23.53 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, its biggest gain since Nov. 29.  Raise Buyout Cash  “The market is estimating that Toshiba may need to raise
about 80 billion yen ($1.05 billion) worth of funds for the
buyout,” Ikuo Matsuhashi, a Tokyo-based managing director for
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., wrote in a note issued before the
announcement. “People might interpret this as Shaw Group
exercising a  put option  because they’re downgrading their mid-
term outlook for nuclear power business.”  Toshiba has slumped 41 percent since a March Japanese
earthquake and tsunami wrecked Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. The company helped build four of the
six reactors at the site. Before today, Shaw had declined 44
percent in the same period.  Toshiba paid $4.16 billion for its 77 percent stake in
Westinghouse in 2006. It nows owns 67 percent after Kazatomprom,
 Kazakhstan ’s state nuclear company, purchased  10 percent  in
2007. Japan’s  IHI Corp. (7013)  owns the remaining 3 percent.  Vogtle Reactors  There are orders for 10 of Westinghouse’s AP1000 reactors
in the U.S. and  China , including the two-unit Vogtle plant
proposed by  Southern Co. (SO)  in  Georgia . Toshiba said Shaw will
remain the contractor on reactors that have been ordered and
will be considered for future nuclear projects.  Shaw will lose exclusive rights to build the reactors, the
engineering and construction company said.  The sale will eliminate  Baton Rouge , Louisiana-based Shaw’s
yen-denominated debt as the  U.S. dollar  tumbled against the
Japanese currency.  “It’s something we’ve been considering for quite some
time,” Shaw Chief Financial Officer Brian Ferraioli said on the
conference call yesterday. “The continued appreciation of the
yen against dollar has been relentless five quarters in a row.”  The Japanese currency has surged 35 percent against the
U.S. dollar since Shaw sold bonds to buy its Westinghouse stake
in October 2006, according to Bloomberg data. It has risen 4.9
percent this year.  Shaw had an $85 million loss related to yen appreciation in
the quarter ended Aug. 31, Ferraioli said.  Repaying Bondholders  Shaw paid $1.08 billion for its share of Westinghouse in
2006. As part of that acquisition, Toshiba is obligated to pay
Shaw at least 96.7 percent of its share of the Westinghouse
debt, according to the statement from the construction company.
Based on Aug. 31 exchange rates, Shaw said it would’ve recorded
a pretax gain of $545 million on the sale. Actual gain or loss
will be set at time of sale, it said.  The sale option will be exercised automatically on Oct. 6,
2012, if bondholders don’t consent to redeem the bonds early,
Shaw said. Proceeds will be used to fully repay the bonds, due
March 15, 2013.  Westinghouse Electric was founded in 1886 and built in part
on Nikola Tesla’s patents for technology using alternating
currents. The company’s units once made everything from trains
to elevators to television shows. The commercial nuclear
business was sold in 1999 by CBS Corp. to BNFL, the U.K.
government’s nuclear fuel company.  “We will remain a U.S. company,” Vaughn Gilbert, a
Westinghouse spokesman, said in an interview. “We’ll operate as
we always have.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Woo in Singapore at 
 rwoo5@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  