-- 
Singapore’s MAS Warns Private Banks Against Illicit Funds

-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 
2011-09-06T11:29:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/singapore-s-mas-warns-private-banks-against-illicit-funds-1-.html
The Monetary Authority of Singapore 
said it’s committed to safeguarding the city-state’s financial
system from being used as a haven to harbor illegitimate funds
or as a conduit to disguise the flow of such funds.  “While MAS is committed to maintaining an open financial
system, it will not tolerate the use of the financial system to
conduct criminal and illegitimate activities,” according to an
 e-mailed statement  today.  The comments come as regulators in the U.S. and Europe have
been cracking down on tax evasion. The Swiss government agreed
in March 2009 to adopt international standards on the exchange
of information on tax evaders after being accused by Germany and
the U.S. of helping to shelter cheats. The policy was the
biggest change to the country’s banking secrecy laws since their
introduction in 1934.  “There are a number of different tax treaties going on and
the MAS wanted to make sure the industry as a whole is cognizant
of that,” said Deepak Sharma, chairman of Citigroup Inc.’s
private banking business in Singapore, and co-chair of the
Private Banking Industry Group.  The amount of undeclared money in Switzerland is
estimated by some observers at between 300 billion francs ($353
billion) to 1 trillion francs, the International Monetary Fund
said in May.  Assessment  At the end of 2010, Singapore had $512 billion in offshore
private banking assets, according to the Boston Consulting
Group.  The MAS said financial institutions must continuously
assess the legal, regulatory and reputational risks associated
with their business and that they should be alert to tax
agreements between countries before accepting any transfers.  If financial institutions have any reason to suspect that
the assets being transferred are illegitimate, they should file
suspicious transaction reports, and where appropriate,
discontinue the business relationship, it said.  “The message for all banks and people in this industry is
that you cannot run going forward,” said Justin Ong, Asia
Pacific Private Banking Leader, Pricewaterhouse Coopers LLP, in
a media briefing yesterday. “It doesn’t matter where you
sit, the regulators will come after you.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  