-- 
Slovak Economic Growth Slows to 3.3% on Exports, Austerity

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 
2011-09-06T07:41:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/slovak-economic-growth-slows-to-3-3-on-exports-austerity-1-.html
The Slovak economy grew at a slower
pace in the second quarter compared with the previous three
months as exports faltered and government spending cuts hurt
consumer demand.  The economy expanded 3.3 percent from the same period last
year, matching a preliminary estimate and compared with 3.5
percent growth in the previous quarter, a final report showed.
On a quarterly basis, gross domestic product grew a seasonally
adjusted 0.9 percent, the same pace as in the previous quarter,
the Bratislava, Slovakia-based  office  said today on its website.  The euro-area member is relying on foreign demand for its
products, including cars made by Volkswagen AG’s local unit, to
drive economic growth after a recession in 2009. The slowdown in
the euro-region, Slovakia’s main export destination, is adding
to the impact of austerity measures aimed at narrowing the
budget deficit in causing economic growth to falter.  “With domestic demand still depressed, the economy is
driven solely by foreign demand,” Maria Valachyova, an
economist at Slovenska Sporitelna AS said in a phone interview.
“The outlook for growth depends thus on the situation in
Slovakia’s main trading partners such as Germany, where we don’t
see any good news.”  Exports to Germany  Slowing growth in Germany, Europe’s largest economy, and a
debt crisis in the region’s periphery have increased the risk of
a renewed recession in the 17-nation euro area. Slovakia adopted
the euro in 2009. Germany, which accounts for one-fifth of
Slovak exports, said on Sept. 1 that its second-quarter GDP
increased 0.1 percent from the first quarter.  In Slovakia, export growth in constant prices slowed to
12.4 percent from 15.8 percent, while investment increased 6.2
percent, the office said.  Household spending was unchanged from year ago as average
wages dropped 0.9 percent, adjusted for inflation, the office
said. At the same time, spending cuts caused government
consumption to drop 4.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava News at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  