-- 
Slovenian Central Bank Sees Slowdown Risk in ‘Next Quarters’

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-09-06T14:10:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/slovenian-central-bank-sees-slowdown-risk-in-next-quarters-1-.html
Slovenia’s economic recovery is at
risk as the global economy slows and  Europe ’s savings measures
to trim debt undermine demand, the Alpine nation’s central bank
said.  “Positive growth is based on demand from abroad, where we
are seeing economic activity slowing, which represents an
additional risk to the economic recovery in the next quarters,”
the Banka Slovenije said today in an e-mailed statement.
“Demand from abroad is under the increased impact of
uncertainty tied to the sustainability of public finances in
some countries.”  Slovenia’s export-dependent economy expanded 0.9 percent in
the second quarter on the year, compared with 2.3 percent in the
first three months on slower growth in exports and industrial
output.  The economy of the former Yugoslav nation that adopted the
euro in 2007 will probably slow further as austerity measures in
Europe sap demand and the sovereign debt crisis adds to
uncertainty over the global economic recovery. The euro area’s
economy lost momentum in the second quarter, expanding 0.2
percent in the period from 0.8 percent pace in the previous
three months.  Lack of Lending  Slovenian banks’ reluctance to lend is also hurting
economic growth as lenders set aside record loan-loss
provisions, EU and Development minister Mitja Gaspari said on
Sept. 1.  “Declining lending to non-financial companies continued,”
the central bank led by Governor Marko Kranjec said today.
“Asset write-downs and loan-loss provisions have by the end of
July increased much more than in a year earlier period.”  Slovenia’s banking industry had a profit of 48 million
euros ($67.5 million) in the first seven months of the year, the
 central bank  said. The core tier one capital ratio of the
industry in the first half improved 0.9 percent to an average
9.9 percent, the central bank said.  Slovenian banks, including the two largest Nova Ljubljanska
banka d.d. and Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d., are still
reeling from the impact of the 2009 recession as companies
continue to go bankrupt with the  construction industry  the
biggest drag on their balance sheets.  Nova Kreditna net income plunged more than 80 percent in
the second quarter from a year earlier on increased bad-loan
provisions. Its larger rival, Nova Ljubljanska, which reported a
900,000 euros profit in the first six months, may report a 2011
loss of as much as 80 million euros, according to Delo
newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  