-- 
SNB Dares Investors With ‘Unlimited’ Swiss Franc Firepower

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-09-07T07:09:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/snb-dares-investors-to-combat-unlimited-swiss-franc-firepower.html
Investors may have to think twice
before taking on Philipp Hildebrand and his printing press at
the Swiss central bank.  Chairman Hildebrand’s pledge to use “unlimited”
quantities of cash to put a lid on the franc means that
officials stand a greater chance of success than their
intervention efforts of 2010, said analysts including  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA) ’s Daragh Maher and UniCredit Group’s  Alexander Koch .  “This strategy is not doomed to fail and it would be a
mistake to assume that speculators are bound to win,” Maher,
deputy head of global foreign-exchange strategy at Credit
Agricole SA in London, said in a note to investors. “The SNB
may have backed itself into a corner, but when cornered, the
determination to fight is often the strongest.”  Hildebrand, 48, has been trying to get the franc under
control since he took charge of the central bank in January
2010. A 15-month campaign to sell the franc was abandoned in
June last year after currency reserves surged, sparking a $21
billion annual loss and prompting calls for his resignation. The
 Swiss National Bank  last month renewed its efforts by cutting
 interest rates  to zero and flooding money markets with
liquidity.  “The SNB won’t give up that easily,” said  Paul Robson , a
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
London. “Over the short term, there’s no limit to how much
money the SNB can print. In the short term, they have unlimited
pockets.”  First Since ‘78  The SNB yesterday set a ceiling of 1.20 versus the euro,
the first such move since 1978, after the European debt crisis
and concerns about a new global recession pushed it to a level
the bank described as “massively overvalued.”  The franc, considered a haven in times of global turmoil,
dropped by a record against the euro yesterday. It was little
changed at 1.2055 at 9:06 a.m. in Zurich and traded at 85.66
centimes versus the dollar. Surging as much as 21 percent
against the single currency this year, it reached an all-time
high of 1.0075 on Aug. 9, trading near parity.  With exports accounting for about half of gross domestic
product, the economy has been vulnerable to the franc’s ascent.
Chemicals company  Clariant AG (CLN)  on Sept. 5 cut its full-year
targets for sales and profitability, citing “increasingly
difficult economic conditions” and a stronger currency.  Slowing Growth  Economic growth slowed to 0.4 percent in the second quarter
from 0.6 percent in the previous three months. That’s the worst
performance since the economy emerged from a recession in 2009.  “Of course it would have been easier to defend a
significantly lower level of say 1.10 or even parity,” said
Koch, an economist at UniCredit in Munich. “But this would not
have been much help to take pressure from Swiss exporters. Even
1.20 should still lead to substantial negative effects on the
economy.”  The danger for Hildebrand, who joined the SNB from the
hedge fund Moore Capital Management in 2003, is that the global
economic outlook deteriorates to such an extent that investors
keep piling into the franc. Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive
Officer  Josef Ackermann  said Sept. 5 that financial conditions
remind him of late 2008, when the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. sparked a global market panic.  ‘Washed Away’  “The risk is that the SNB gets washed away with global
 risk aversion ,” said Robson. “The fortunes of the franc
largely remain with what happens in Frankfurt and Paris.”  The SNB is also taking on the $4 trillion-a-day foreign
exchange market just as other central banks try to steer their
currencies.  Japan  last month intervened again to stem a rising
yen and Finance Minister Jun Azumi says he will use this week’s
meeting of Group of Seven policy makers to highlight the danger
it poses to his economy.  Brazil ’s authorities have also sought
to weaken the real.  Switzerland ’s decision to impose a ceiling may spur demand
for the yen and Australian dollar, Bangko Sentral ng Philipinas
Governor Amando Tetangco said. With “one less hard currency to
‘share’ the burden, volatility in the markets can increase,
particularly in emerging-market economies,” he said.  “Let’s see how that works,” Kit Juckes, head of foreign-
exchange research at Societe Generale SA in London. “The
currency wars are heating up.”  ‘Herd-Like Panic’  For now, Hildebrand’s drive will be helped by the fact that
politicians facing national elections are rallying behind his
cause in order to avert job losses and a recession. At a meeting
in Bern on Sept. 2, all five ruling-coalition parties signaled
their support to Hildebrand.  Hildebrand has the added advantage that he’s trying to
weaken rather than strengthen the franc, meaning he won’t face
the threat of depleted reserves that eventually sank Asian
economies during the region’s currency crisis in the late 1990s.  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management in
 London , said the SNB had the “utmost justification” for its
decision, calling the franc’s appreciation “ridiculous.”  “The Swiss are forcibly saying ‘don’t put all the stresses
on us,’” he said. “Once a central bank puts a misaligned
currency at the center of policy making, you go with it. Simply
intervening in the franc won’t solve all the world’s problems
but it might help markets be more balanced in their herd-like
panic about some of these issues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  