-- 
Solarworld Has Received Takeover, Merger Inquiries, Chief Says

-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 
2011-09-06T12:45:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/solarworld-has-received-takeover-merger-inquiries-chief-says.html
Solarworld AG (SWV) ,  Germany ’s biggest
solar module maker, rebuffed several merger and takeover offers
as they valued the company at a fraction of what its chief
executive officer considered a fair price.  Solarworld has been approached “several times,” CEO Frank Asbeck, who founded the Bonn-based company 13 years ago, said in
an interview in Hamburg. Asbeck didn’t identify the suitors or
when the advances were made.  The solar industry, under pressure from plunging prices for
their products amid slumping demand in  Europe , has begun a
consolidation that’s already the biggest in at least two years
as weaker companies are forced to look for affluent partners or
close shop. Mergers and acquisitions announced this year in the
sector total $3.3 billion, up 33 percent from the $2.47 billion
for all of last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Solarworld has dropped 50 percent the past 12 months to
4.647 euros a share at 2:35 p.m. in  Frankfurt  today, valuing the
company at 519 million euros ($730 million). At the end of 2010,
it had the capacity to produce 1.25 gigawatts a year, the most
among module makers in Germany, according to Bloomberg data.  “I didn’t sell my stock for 50 euros per share, why should
I sell for 5 euros?” Asbeck, who holds 27.8 percent of the
company, said of the inquiries into Solarworld.  The solar sector will see more bankruptcies rather than
mergers and acquisitions as consolidation continues, Lars Dannenberg, an analyst at Berenberg Bank, said today in a phone
interview from  London .  Lower Subsidies, China  Three U.S. solar companies have failed the past month as
the industry has grappled with falling demand in Europe, where
Germany, France and  Italy  lowered subsidies for solar to cap
booming installations, rein in budgets and compete with China.  While manufacturers have said they see demand in Germany,
the world’s biggest market, pick up in the second half, they
continue to struggle with competition from Chinese producers
that have increased capacities during the past months.  Q-Cells SE (QCE) , once the world’s biggest producer of solar
cells, has lost 83 percent in a year and is valued at 135
million euros. CEO Nedim Cen said June 8 that he wouldn’t be
opposed to selling Q-Cells. In an interview yesterday, he
declined to comment on merger or acquisition talks.  Jiangsu, China-based Suntech Power Holdings Co., the
world’s biggest solar panel maker, has attracted interest for
partnerships though it won’t likely pursue mergers or
acquisitions because it wants to pursue organic growth, said
Jerry Stokes, president of Suntech’s European unit.  ‘Would Be Foolish’  “It would be foolish just to say, ‘no, we won’t do
anything,’ but probably you won’t see any real activity from
Suntech in the short term in the M&A area,” Stokes said in an
interview.  While Suntech doesn’t need to pursue outside investments
because it’s well-known, it would make sense for a “no-name”
Chinese manufacturer to buy a European manufacturer with a good
reputation such as Conergy AG or Solarworld to build a brand,
Dannenberg said.  The Chinese company could then “sell no-name products
manufactured in  China  and produce high-quality premium modules
based on cheap cells with a well-known brand in Germany,”
Dannenberg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   Gelu Sulugiuc in Hamburg at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  