-- 
Solyndra’s Former Workers Sue Solar Company Over Firing, Lack of Warning

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-09-06T17:32:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/solyndra-s-former-workers-sue-solar-company-over-firing-lack-of-warning.html
Former Solyndra LLC employees sued
the bankrupt solar-panel maker, claiming it failed to give the
warning required under federal law before shutting down and
firing them last week.  Solyndra filed for protection from creditors today in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington, Delaware, six days after
shutting down its factory in Fremont,  California , where the
company is based, and firing 1,100 people.  Solyndra didn’t pay the employees “their respective wages,
salary, commissions, bonuses, accrued holiday pay and accrued
vacation for 60 calendar days following their respective
terminations and failed to make 401(k) contributions and provide
them with health insurance coverage, life insurance coverage,
and other employee benefits,” the workers said in a complaint
filed today in Wilmington.  The company has said it couldn’t compete with foreign,
government-aided manufacturers that produced an oversupply of
panels at low prices and offered buyers lengthy payment terms.
Demand for Solyndra’s panels also fell as European governments
reduced incentives for buying solar energy, W.G. Stover, chief
financial officer, said in a filing today.  The workers’ lawsuit is a so-called Warn Act complaint.
Such cases are sometimes filed in  bankruptcy court  when a
company shuts down unexpectedly and files for bankruptcy.
Federal law requires companies to try to give workers 60 days
written notice before closing a factory.  Sell or Liquidate  While in bankruptcy, Solyndra will try to either sell
itself or liquidate and use the money to benefit creditors, the
company said in court documents.  Solyndra produces cylindrical solar wafers that convert
sunlight into electricity using a thin-film technology based on
copper-indium-gallium-diselenide.  The company said it has borrowed $527.8 million from the
 U.S. Federal Financing Bank  using a $535 million Energy
Department loan guarantees. The money was combined with notes
sold to private investors to fund construction of a new factory,
which opened in January.  The workers’ case is Kohlstadt v. Solyndra LLC, 11-53155;
the bankruptcy is In re Solyndra LLC 11-12799. Both are in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  