-- 
Solyndra, Solar-Panel Maker in California, Seeks Bankruptcy

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h ,   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-09-06T15:15:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/solyndra-solar-panel-maker-in-california-files-for-bankruptcy-protection.html
Solyndra LLC, a solar-panel maker
whose $535 million federal loan guarantee was criticized by
Republicans, filed bankruptcy, at least the third solar company
to seek court protection from creditors since August.  The company owed lenders $783.8 million, including
$527.8 million to the U.S. government, and held assets valued at
$859 million as of Jan. 1, according to court papers filed in
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware .  Solyndra said it failed because it couldn’t compete with
foreign manufacturers funded by their governments. Those
factories produced an oversupply of panels at low prices and
offered buyers lengthy payment terms. Demand for Solyndra’s
panels also fell as European governments reduced incentives for
buying solar energy, said W.G. Stover, chief financial officer,
in a filing today.  Solyndra couldn’t collect from some customers on time
because “foreign competitors offered extended-payment terms,
resulting in Solyndra’s customers refusing to honor their
previously agreed payment terms,” Stover said in court papers.  While in bankruptcy, Solyndra, based in Fremont,
 California , will try to either sell its business or liquidate
for the benefit of creditors, he said.  The U.S. Federal Financing Bank, owned by the U.S. Treasury
Department, is the company’s biggest lender, according to court
papers.  Debts Reorganized  In February, Solyndra and its lenders reorganized the
company’s debts, putting the U.S. loan behind $69.3 million owed
to other lenders, including an affiliate of Solyndra’s biggest
shareholder, Argonaut Ventures.  In recent weeks, the U.S. Energy Department, which provided
the loan guarantee, negotiated with Solyndra investors for
bridge financing to give the company time to find a new source
of capital, Stover said. Solyndra was told on Aug. 30 there was
no financing, he said.  On Aug. 31, the closely held company shut down, firing
1,100 employees.  Solyndra produces cylindrical panels that convert sunlight
into electricity using a thin-film technology based on copper-
indium-gallium-diselenide.  The company said it has borrowed $527.8 million from the
U.S. Federal Financing Bank using the $535 million Energy
Department loan guarantee. The money was combined with notes
sold to private investors to fund construction of a new factory,
which opened in January.  Loan Guarantee  A collateral agent representing the lenders, including the
U.S., holds $198 million Solyndra raised from investors.  Republican lawmakers in the U.S. House of Representatives
have criticized the loan guarantee, questioning whether Solyndra
deserved the help. Earlier this year, the investigations
subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee began
probing the guarantee.  President  Barack Obama , who visited the company’s plant in
2010, and Democratic lawmakers said the U.S. must keep
supporting renewable energy even amid Solyndra’s failure.  The biggest unsecured claims are held by two trade
creditors, Schott North America Inc., owed $7.7 million, and MGS
Mfg. Group, owed $7.5 million. Unsecured lenders include the
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, owed $4.8 million, OZ Offshore
Capital Lenders LLC, with a $3.7 million loan, and US Venture
Partners X LP, owed $3.5 million.  Reduced Payroll  Argonaut Ventures holds almost 39 percent of Solyndra’s
parent, 360 Solar Degree Holdings Inc. Madrone Partners holds 13
percent of the equity; USVP Venture Partners holds about 9
percent, and Rockport Capital Partners owns about 7 percent,
according to filings. The company said it plans to hire
Pachulski Stang Ziehl & Jones LLP as legal adviser.  About 113 employees remain “to assist the debtors with
their restructuring efforts,” the company said in a filing
seeking permission to pay them. The average bi-weekly payroll
will be about $650,000, down from $3.5 million before the
firings, Solyndra said.  Evergreen Solar Inc. (ESLR)  filed bankruptcy last month, blaming
price declines and competition from government-subsidized solar-
panel makers in  China .  The case is In re Solyndra LLC 11-12799, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in London at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  