-- 
Sprint Sues to Block AT&T’s $39 Billion Takeover of T-Mobile

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-06T20:11:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/sprint-sues-to-block-at-t-s-proposed-39-billion-takeover-of-t-mobile.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  sued to block
AT&T Inc.’s proposed $39 billion purchase of wireless carrier T-
Mobile USA Inc. less than a week after the U.S. Justice
Department moved to halt the transaction.  Sprint, the third-biggest U.S. wireless operator, filed an
antitrust lawsuit today in federal court in Washington, saying
the deal would harm consumers and weaken Sprint’s ability to
compete with AT&T and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  The case was
assigned to U.S. District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle, who is
overseeing the government’s suit against the acquisition.  “In one fell swoop, AT&T’s proposed purchase would
eliminate one of four national competitors and marginalize a
second (Sprint), pushing the market back toward a 1980s-style
cell phone duopoly,” Sprint said in its 68-page complaint.  Makan Delrahim, a lawyer with Brownstein Hyatt Farber
Schreck LLP in  Washington  who’s not involved in the litigation,
said Sprint wants the cases consolidated because it may add
“some legal and economic firepower to the government’s” suit
and give the company a role in any settlement talks.  “The government will probably resist consolidation,” said
Delrahim, a former deputy assistant attorney general for
antitrust under President  George W. Bush . “It wants to have
maximum flexibility and control. Sometimes private cases do get
consolidated, but often not.”  Reduced Competition  The U.S. Justice Department sued Dallas-based AT&T and
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit on Aug. 31, saying a
combination of the two companies, which would make AT&T the
biggest U.S. wireless carrier, would “substantially” reduce
competition. Sprint said in a statement today that the deal
would lead to higher prices for mobile-phone users.  “With today’s legal action, we are continuing that
advocacy on behalf of consumers and competition, and expect to
contribute our expertise and resources in proving that the
proposed transaction is illegal,” Susan Haller,  Overland Park ,
Kansas-based Sprint’s vice president for litigation, said in the
statement.  AT&T, saying that it will fight the suit, said in a
statement in an e-mailed statement that it shows “Sprint is more
interested in protecting itself than it is in promoting
competition that benefits consumers.”  Section 4 of the Clayton Act states that “any person who
shall be injured in his business or property by reason of
anything forbidden in the antitrust laws” may sue in federal
court. If successful, Sprint could seek triple damages and
attorney fees, according to the law.  Sprint’s lawyers on the lawsuit are from the New York and
Washington offices of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom.  The case is Sprint Nextel Corp. v.  AT&T Inc. (T) , 11-cv-01600,
U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington). The
government’s case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01560, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in federal court in Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 