-- 
Sunoco Exits Refining, Begins ‘Strategic Review’ on Future

-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-09-06T20:22:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/sunoco-exits-refining-begins-strategic-review.html
Sunoco Inc. (SUN) , the Philadelphia-based
company that has owned refineries for 117 years, said it will
sell or shut its last two facilities and begin a
“comprehensive” strategic review.  “Despite our best efforts, our refining and supply
business has lost money in eight out of the last 10 quarters,”
Lynn Elsenhans, chairman and chief executive officer of the
company, said in a conference call with investors today. “It is
in the best interests of the shareholders to exit the business
and invest our capital resources in the retail and logistics
businesses.”  All options are on the table, including a sale of the whole
company, converting to a master-limited partnership, or buying
pipelines, storage and retail fuel assets to expand those
businesses, Elsenhans said.  East Coast refiners have struggled to turn a profit as the
price of imported Brent oil tied to the U.K.’s North Sea
production surged to $127.02 in April, according to Bloomberg
data. High prices have crimped demand, causing the crack spread,
a measure of the difference between the cost of  Brent crude  and
the price at which refiners sell fuel, to drop 20 percent so far
in 2011 from its 2007 average, according to Bloomberg data.  Low-Margin Business  The decision to exit refining was based on the company view
that the margin between fuel costs and  oil prices  in the
Northeast is not likely to change, Elsenhans said on the call.  Sunoco’s wholesale refining margin in the second quarter
fell 41 percent to $4.31 a barrel compared with the same period
a year earlier, according to a company statement.  The challenging environment for East Coast refiners may
make it difficult for Sunoco to sell its Philadelphia and  Marcus
Hook ,  Pennsylvania , plants, Mark Gilman, an analyst with
Benchmark Co. LLC in  New York , said in a telephone interview
today.  The company may not get $1 billion for both refineries
combined, excluding inventory, he said.  “I suspect a lot less,” Gilman said.  The most likely buyer of Sunoco’s refineries is private-
equity-backed PBF Energy Partners LP, which has bought three
U.S. refineries in the past year, Eliecer Palacios, an energy-
sector specialist at New York-based investment bank Maxim Group
LLC.  Selling or Idling  Selling the refineries as a package rather than
individually may result in a lower price, Palacios said.  If the refineries can’t be sold, Sunoco will idle the main
processing units in July, according to the company statement.
Sunoco has hired Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC to handle
the strategic review. The plants might be converted into storage
terminals, Elsenhans said.  Cash flow  would increase $200 million by shuttering the
plants, Brian MacDonald, Sunoco’s chief financial officer, said
during the investor call.  The plants represent 31 percent of the East Coast’s
refining capacity, according to the U.S. Energy Information
Administration. Closing both might lead to more imports of
gasoline from  Europe , said John Parry, principal analyst at IHS
Herold Inc., a consulting firm in Norwich,  Connecticut .  Taking the two refineries offline would not have a
significant impact on gasoline prices because more refined fuel
products may flow from the U.S. Gulf Coast to the East Coast on
the Colonial pipeline system, he said.  Mitigating the Impact  The U.S. is not operating at its full refining capacity,
and the recent addition of nearly 200,000 barrels a day at
Marathon Petroleum Corp.’s Garyville,  Louisiana , refinery should
mitigate the impact of losing 505,000 barrels a day from
Sunoco’s two plants, Parry said.  The company earlier this year spun off a stake in its
SunCoke unit and agreed to sell the last of its chemicals
business. It retains a logistics unit, which owns oil pipelines
and storage terminals, and a retail marketing business that has
4,900 gasoline outlets, primarily in the eastern and midwestern
U.S.  Sunoco, formerly known as the Sun Oil Co. of  Ohio , bought
its first refinery in 1894, according to its  website . The two
units now for sale can together process as much as 505,000
barrels of crude a day, according to today’s statement.  Pretax Charges  The company expects to have a pretax charge of as much as
$2.2 billion in the third quarter related to its decision to
exit refining. If the units aren’t sold, there may be additional
charges of up to $500 million, Sunoco said.  The units have about $2 billion worth of crude oil and
refined products in inventory at current prices, so the company
would have a pretax gain if the refineries are sold or idled,
according to the statement.  Sunoco rose 5.3 percent, or $1.92, to $38.03 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
dropped 8 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  