-- 
Swaps Signal Asia Will Abandon Rate Increases This Week: Chart of the Day

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-09-06T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/swaps-signal-asia-will-abandon-rate-increases-this-week-chart-of-the-day.html
Investors are boosting bets Asian
central banks meeting tomorrow will abandon borrowing cost
increases as worsening global economic prospects threaten
regional growth, swaps show.  THE CHART OF THE DAY shows one-year onshore interest-rate
swaps in  South Korea , Malaysia, Indonesia and the Philippines
began falling after a July 29 report showed U.S. economic growth
trailed economists’ estimates. Job growth in the world’s largest
economy stagnated in August, a Labor Department report showed
Sept. 2. Swap prices in all four nations are near the lowest
levels in eight months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Global growth concerns and euro-zone debt woes should
steer Asian central banks to hold rates this week,” said
Jasmine Poh, a Singapore-based currency and rates strategist at
BNP Paribas SA. The U.S. Federal Reserve’s policy response is
“becoming less effective and isn’t going to be a cure for the
current mess in  Europe ,” she said.  Policy benchmarks in  Indonesia , Malaysia, the Philippines
and South  Korea  will be held unchanged at 6.75 percent, 3
percent, 4.5 percent and 3.25 percent, separate surveys of
economists by Bloomberg News show. The U.S. is the second-
largest export market for Korea and the Philippines and
Malaysia’s fourth-biggest.  The swap rates in the Asian nations have dropped between 29
basis points, or 0.29 percentage point, and 203 since the end of
July, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Standard & Poor’s  cut the
AAA credit rating of the U.S. by one level on Aug. 5, boosting
concern that its economic recovery is sagging.  Economic growth in South Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines,
Taiwan, Thailand, India and  China  all decelerated to the slowest
pace since 2009 in the three months ended June 30, according to
government data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  