-- 
Swaziland Labor Unions March for Democracy in Manzini, Bid to End Monarchy

-- B y   V u y i s i l e   H l a t s h w a y o
-- 
2011-09-06T11:20:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/swaziland-labor-unions-march-for-democracy-in-manzini-bid-to-end-monarchy.html
Labor groups in Swaziland, sub-
Saharan  Africa ’s last absolute monarchy, marched in Manzini, the
biggest city, today to demand democracy, said Vincent Ncongwane,
secretary-general of the Swaziland Federation of Labor.  About 1,000 protesters, closely watched by police,
demonstrated in the second day of a week of protests to force
political change, Ncongwane said in an interview in the city.
The group included leaders from the Congress of South African
Trade Unions, he said.  “We want multiparty democracy because we need opposition
parties to act as a watchdog for the government,” he said. “We
want the king to relinquish all of his powers as an absolute
monarch.”  The 43-year-old King Mswati III appoints the country’s
prime minister, while its lawmakers aren’t allowed to belong to
political parties. Mswati, who has ruled the nation for 25
years, has more than 10 wives and a personal fortune of $200
million, according to Forbes magazine.  A fiscal crisis is deepening in Swaziland, Africa’s third-
biggest sugar producer, even after neighbor  South Africa  agreed
to give the government a 2.4 billion rand ($338 million) loan to
help it plug a budget shortfall that sparked riots in April, the
 International Monetary Fund  said Aug. 31. The landlocked country
of 1.2 million people raised taxes and cut state spending this
year after losing a third of its revenue when the global
economic crisis slashed income from a regional customs union.  The money from South Africa is conditional on the Swazi
government holdings talks with “all stakeholders” in the
country, according to Pravin Gordhan, South Africa’s finance
minister.  Cosatu, South Africa’s biggest labor federation that is in
an alliance with the ruling  African National Congress , is
opposed to the loan to Swaziland.  “This loan will only sustain an unsustainable system and
perpetuate the continued oppression and suffering of the people
of Swaziland,” it said in an e-mailed statement today. Cosatu
members planned to march on South Africa’s parliament in protest
to the loan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vuyisile Hlathswayo in Mbabane at 
 vshlatshwayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  