-- 
Swiss Pledge Unlimited Currency Purchases

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-09-06T15:46:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/swiss-national-bank-sets-minimum-exchange-rate-of-1-20-against-the-euro.html
The Swiss central bank imposed a
ceiling on the franc for the first time in more than three
decades and pledged to defend the target with the “utmost
determination,” prompting a record drop in the currency.  The Swiss National Bank is “aiming for a substantial and
sustained weakening of the franc,” the Zurich-based bank said
in an e-mailed  statement  today. “With immediate effect, it will
no longer tolerate a euro-franc exchange rate below the minimum
rate of 1.20 francs” and “is prepared to buy foreign currency
in unlimited quantities.”  The franc plunged the most ever against the euro after the
SNB announced the measure last introduced in 1978 to stem gains
versus the Deutsche mark. While the central bank in August
boosted liquidity to the money market and lowered borrowing
costs to zero to protect the economy, investor concern that
governments may struggle to contain Europe’s worsening debt
crisis continued to push the currency higher.  “The SNB has committed itself to creating unlimited
amounts of francs and selling them versus the euro to defend the
currency’s level,” said Fabian Heller, an economist at Credit
Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “They will follow through on their
commitment as otherwise their credibility would be clearly
damaged and speculation would start again, most likely leading
to renewed franc gains.”  The franc snapped four days of gains versus the euro,
dropping as much as 8.7 percent. It traded at 1.2025 at 5:46
p.m. in Zurich and was at 85.82 centimes versus the dollar.  Economic ‘Damage’  SNB President Philipp Hildebrand said in an e-mailed
statement that while costs “might be very high,” doing
“nothing would almost certainly inflict tremendous long-term
damage” to the Swiss economy.  “With today’s decision, the SNB sets foot on a challenging
journey,” he said. “Even at a rate of 1.20 per euro, our
currency is still at a high level. It should continue to weaken
over time. If the economic outlook and deflationary risks demand
it, the SNB will take further measures.”  Before today’s move, the currency surged more than 13
percent against the euro this year as investors turned to find a
haven from turmoil provoked by the debt crisis. It reached a
record of 1.0075 against the euro on Aug. 9, trading close to
parity. As of yesterday, the franc was 40.5 percent overvalued
against the euro, based on a measure of purchasing power as
calculated by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development.  ‘Ridiculous’ Gains  Jim O’Neill, chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management in
London, said the SNB had the “utmost justification” for its
decision, calling the franc’s appreciation “ridiculous.”  “The Swiss are forcibly saying don’t put all the stresses
on us,” he said. “Once a central bank puts a misaligned
currency at the center of policy making, you go with it. Simply
intervening in the franc won’t solve all the world’s problems
but it might help markets be more balanced in their herd-like
panic about some of these issues.”  Fears of a new global recession have prompted investors to
pile into currencies such as the franc and the Japanese yen
which are seen as havens in a time of crisis. That’s forced
policy makers into action to protect their exporters.  Japan last month intervened again to stem a rising yen and
Finance Minister Jun Azumi today said he will use this week’s
meeting of Group of Seven policy makers to highlight the danger
the currency poses to his economy. Brazil’s authorities have
also sought to weaken the real.  ‘Currency Wars’  The Swiss step is nevertheless the boldest single move by a
central bank to restrain its currency since Brazilian Finance
Minister Guido Mantega said in September 2010 the world faced a
“currency war.”  “The currency wars are heating up,” Kit Juckes, head of
foreign exchange research at Societe Generale SA in London, said
in a note to clients today.  The SNB’s foreign currency holdings jumped to a record
253.4 billion francs ($299 billion) at the end of August from
182.1 billion francs in the previous month after it used foreign
exchange swaps to weaken the franc. At the end of the second
quarter, the euro made up 55 percent of reserves.  Companies from watchmaker  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  to  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the
world’s largest maker of power-transmission gear, have said the
currency’s strength is weighing on earnings. A slump in exports
was among the reasons why the Swiss economy slowed in the second
quarter, expanding 0.4 percent from the previous three months,
when it grew 0.6 percent.  The SNB abandoned efforts to weaken the franc in June 2010
after quadrupling its currency holdings. The intervention policy
sparked a record loss of $21 billion last year and prompted
calls by lawmaker for Hildebrand to resign.  “The SNB has just drawn the ultimate weapon,” said
Alexander Koch, an economist at UniCredit Group in Munich.
Still, “the central bank’s problem is that the franc is a
hostage to outside events.”  The SNB is scheduled to hold its next monetary policy
assessment on Sept. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  