-- 
Swiss Open Fresh Round in Currency War Ignited by Global Economic Slowdown

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-09-07T10:03:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/swiss-open-new-round-in-currency-wars-ignited-by-global-economic-slowdown.html
Switzerland  opened a new round in a
global currency war as fading economic growth forces policy
makers to step up efforts to spur expansion.  The Swiss National Bank’s decision yesterday to cap the
franc’s rate for the first time since 1978 marked a bid to
protect trade hurt by the currency that last month strengthened
to records against the euro and the dollar. The franc plunged
8.1 percent yesterday against the euro, the most since the
creation of  Europe ’s single currency. It was little changed at
1.2058 per euro at 10:53 a.m. in London.  The initiative may leave Norway and Sweden vulnerable to
unwanted gains in their currencies as countries such as  Brazil 
and Japan fight to limit appreciation amid a flight from the
euro debt crisis and near-zero U.S. interest rates. With Group
of Seven finance chiefs set to hold talks this week, it also
exposes the clash among policy makers counting on exports to
offset slumping demand at home.  “We will see a lot more intervention now, we will see
manipulation on a grand scale,” said  Stuart Thomson , who helps
oversee about $120 billion as a portfolio manager at Ignis Asset
Management in Glasgow. “Traditional safe havens are trying to
undermine the value of their currencies.”  Line in Sand  The Swiss central bank said yesterday it is “prepared to
buy foreign currency in unlimited quantities” to keep the euro
above 1.20 francs after previous sales, injections of liquidity
into the money market and zero borrowing costs failed to repel
investors seeking bigger or safer returns than those offered by
the U.S. or euro area. Swiss companies including watchmaker
Swatch Group AG say the franc’s strength is weighing on earnings
and a slump in exports was among the reasons why the economy
slowed in the second quarter.  The SNB’s unilateral move puts it head-to-head with a $4
trillion-a-day  currency market  that drove the franc up more than
16 percent against a basket of nine major peers in the year
through Sept. 2, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes. The euro fell 1.3 percent over the same
period, while the dollar declined 12 percent, the indexes show.  The strategy shift is a sign other central banks may seek
to weaken exchange rates in what Brazilian Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  last year labeled a “currency war,” said  David Bloom , global head of foreign-exchange strategy at HSBC Holdings
Plc. London-based HSBC yesterday cut its forecast for global
economic growth this year to 2.6 percent from 3 percent and
called a healthy recovery a “distant dream.”  Trying to Win  “As we hit the zero bound in interest rates, central banks
have shifted to exchange-rate policy, aiming to have the weakest
currency in town,” Bloom said. “This is a game that everyone
can’t win, but that doesn’t mean they won’t keep trying.”  Japan  last month spent 4.51 trillion yen ($58 billion) on
yen sales, the biggest intervention for any month since 2004,
and Finance Minister Jun Azumi said yesterday he will highlight
the dangers of the yen’s gains at a G-7 meeting in Marseille,
 France , on Sept. 9-10.  Brazil’s Mantega last week said he hoped a reduction in his
country’s benchmark interest rate would help limit an
appreciation in the real that he has sought to fight through  tax
policy  and trade barriers.  Dollar’s Drop  Led by  China , all of  Asia ’s 10 biggest economies last year
sought to influence their own exchange rates to aid exporters as
the dollar fell. The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against the currencies of six U.S. trading partners, has fallen
about 9 percent in the past year, as the U.S. Federal Reserve
kept its key rate near zero and bought $600 billion of bonds
between November and June.  Other economies also may be forced to join the fight, said
 Geoffrey Yu , a foreign-exchange strategist at UBS AG in London.
“If people leave the franc and the yen and get crowded into the
likes of  Sweden  and Norway, how far are the local economies
going to tolerate their currencies strengthening before they do
something as well,” he said.  HSBC yesterday recommended Norway’s currency as an
alternative after the SNB’s action. The krone has strengthened
4.5 percent against its nine major peers over the past year,
Bloomberg’s correlation-weighted indexes show, prompting Finance
Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen and central bank Governor Oeystein Olsen to signal they’ll act to stem currency gains that hurt
exports.  Japan’s Stance  Japanese policy makers are “unlikely” to follow
Switzerland’s move to set a franc ceiling because their economy
is so much bigger, said Masaaki Kanno, the Bank of Japan’s
former chief foreign-exchange dealer and now chief Japan
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. Japan’s gross domestic product
is the world’s third largest.  “The big difference between Switzerland and Japan is size
of economy,” he said. If Japan set an upper limit for the yen
at 75 or 70 per dollar, it would need to purchase a potentially
“infinite” amount of dollars, something that would upset the
U.S., he said.  Thanos Papasavvas, head of currency management at Investec
Asset Management Ltd., which oversees about $95 billion in
 London , said he thinks the Swiss intervention will work because
the franc was “extremely expensive” while other nations with
less excessive valuations may struggle to influence their
currencies.  Fillip for Market  The selling of the franc may help stabilize markets by
forcing investors to return to riskier assets, said  Jim O’Neill ,
chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management in London.  “Simply intervening in the franc won’t solve all the
world’s problems, but it might help markets be more balanced in
their herd-like panic,” said O’Neill.  Switzerland’s move also demonstrates how three years since
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., central banks are
having to adopt new tools to boost growth after cutting  interest
rates  at or near record lows, buying bonds and injecting
billions in their financial systems, said Neil MacKinnon, global
macro strategist at VTB Capital in London.  With its second round of bond buying failing to spur growth
or hiring, the Fed may decide at its Sept. 20-21 meeting to
replace short-maturity Treasuries in its $1.65 trillion
portfolio with long-term bonds to lower rates on everything from
mortgages to  car loans , say economists at  Barclays Capital  and
Wells Fargo & Co. Citigroup Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
see the  Bank of England  resuming bond purchases as early as this
week.  “The financial and economic crisis has tested the
innovative powers of central banks,” said MacKinnon, a former
U.K. Treasury official. “Conventional tools such as rate
reductions and currency intervention have failed to work and
that reflects the extraordinary times in which we live.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  