-- 
Swiss Companies Cheer Currency Cap as Franc Crimped Profit

-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r   a n d   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 
2011-09-07T08:58:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/swiss-companies-cheer-currency-cap-after-surge-threatened-earnings-jobs.html
Swiss companies from knife-makers to
cheese producers welcomed the central bank’s decision to halt
the franc’s appreciation against the euro, which had left them
struggling to compete and pushed investment abroad.  The  Swiss National Bank  said yesterday it won’t tolerate an
 exchange rate  below 1.20 francs per euro following the
currency’s 13 percent gain against the euro this year. The
benchmark Swiss Performance Index today extended yesterday’s 4
percent gain after the Swiss currency posted a record drop
against the euro.  “If we have an exchange rate at 1.20 and this is more or
less stable, then we have something we can count on,” said
Peter Hug, chief executive officer of Wenger SA, a maker of
Swiss army knives costing $43. “Of course, 1.30 is better.
Being realistic, I can say this is a good step in the right
direction.”  The strength of the franc threatened 25,000 jobs at Swiss
exporters, industry association Economiesuisse had said before
the central bank’s decision. Companies including drugmaker
Novartis AG, watchmaker  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  and cement producer
 Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  said first-half earnings growth was crimped by the
franc. The Swiss economy slowed in the second quarter, expanding
0.4 percent from the previous three months, as exports slumped.  “I am so happy,” said Benedikt Germanier, chief executive
officer of Zai, a maker of luxury skis based in Disentis,
Switzerland. “It reduces the currency risk you don’t need
during times like this.”  Saving Jobs  Clariant AG (CLN) , a Swiss maker of pigments and additives used
in plastics, textiles and paint, fell 16 percent in Zurich
trading on Sept. 5 after cutting its full-year outlook for sales
and profitability, partly because of a stronger franc.  Chief Executive Officer Hariolf Kottmann is moving textile-
and paper-chemical businesses out of  Switzerland  to Asia and
 Spain , a move that will further reduce franc-denominated costs.
The SNB’s move may help companies avoid such measures,
executives said.  “This will help me save jobs,” said Daniel Frutig, chief
executive officer of AFG Arbonia-Forster Holding AG, which makes
heating systems. He said Aug. 3 the company was losing money
every day. “A currency rate of 1.1 has a direct impact on how
many people we can employ. A rate of 1.30 or 1.40 would be like
the old days, but that’s history.”  Record Plunge  The franc plunged more than 8 percent yesterday to trade
near the limit at 1.20685 euros. It reached a record of 1.0075
against the euro on Aug. 9 as investors turned to find a haven
from turmoil provoked by the debt crisis. The franc was 41
percent overvalued against the euro on Sept. 5, based on a
measure of purchasing power as calculated by the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the second-biggest luxury-
goods company, said today net income in the current financial
year will be affected by the strong franc, which will lead to a
“translation” loss on Richemont’s cash balance.  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s largest maker of power-transmission
gear, has been buying more components from the  euro zone  for its
Swiss factories.  “Intervention by the SNB can only be supportive for ABB’s
exports from Switzerland and for Swiss industry in general,”
ABB Chief Financial Officer Michel Demare said by e-mail. He
said “only a minor” portion of costs are in francs.  Drugs, Chemicals  The strength of the franc forced Lonza Group AG, a Swiss
chemicals maker, to extend working hours without increasing pay
in order to boost competitiveness.  Holcim, the world’s second-largest cement maker, said Aug.
18 that the currency’s strength shaved 916 million francs ($1.1
billion) off sales in the second quarter and reduced operating
profit by 203 million francs.  Interpharma, a Swiss drug industry trade group representing
companies including  Roche Holding AG  and Novartis, and the
Federation of the Swiss Watch Industry both welcomed the
decision, though said it wasn’t enough.  The central bank wasn’t able to announce a higher target
because it needs to be one that it can credibly defend,
according to Gerold Buehrer, the head of Economiesuisse, a trade
group representing 30,000 companies. The Alpine country needs an
exchange rate of 1.35 to 1.40, which would make purchasing power
on par with the euro zone, he also said.  “The action of the Swiss National Bank is a step in the
right direction,” said Heinrich Villiger, owner and chairman of
Villiger Soehne AG, a cigar maker. “However, I would have
preferred 1.25 instead of 1.20.”  No ‘Miracles’  Paul Thompson, chief financial officer of hearing aid maker
 Sonova Holding AG (SOON) , said he’s not satisfied with the target rate,
though the central bank probably can’t do more. “These issues
are much bigger than Switzerland,” he said.  Currency shifts will strip 19 percentage points off  Nestle
SA (NESN) ’s full-year sales growth,  David Hayes , an analyst at Nomura,
estimated earlier this week. The maker of Lean Cuisine meals and
Purina pet food seeks to offset that effect through productivity
gains and new products such as BabyNes formula-milk capsules,
Chief Executive Officer  Paul Bulcke  said last week.  “The measure from the SNB certainly helps and it’s good to
change things on the Swiss side, but in the end it’s a global
economic issue and we can’t expect miracles,” said Esther Gerster, a spokeswoman for  Emmi AG (EMMN) , Switzerland’s biggest
cheesemaker.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  