-- 
Swiss May Spend 200 Billion Euros on Peg, BMO Says

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-09-06T16:27:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/swiss-may-spend-200-billion-euros-on-peg-bmo-says-correct-.html
(Corrects headline, first quote to fix estimate.)  Andrew Busch , a global currency
strategist in  Chicago  at Bank of Montreal, spoke in a conference
call today with investors about the Swiss National Bank’s
decision to peg the franc to 1.20 or weaker per euro.  On the peg:  “I would assume the Swiss National Bank is going to absorb
around 200 billion euros ($279.8 billion) in a relatively short
period of time, perhaps within the first two months, to make a
point and prove the worthiness of having this peg hold.”  “It’s truly an important development when a developed
nation pegs its currency to another developed nation, it’s very
unusual.”  On foreign-exchange market reaction:  “We have a tremendous amount of volatility in the foreign-
exchange market, especially surrounding the Swiss franc,” Busch
said. “The leverage in the foreign-exchange market is pretty
significant with retail investors levered 50 to 1. A 10 percent
move is very significant.”  On equity market reaction:  “This was a policy change that was primarily directed at
aiding their exporters, so it’s no wonder that Swiss exporters
have risen today in the market. They essentially just got a 10
percent boost in the value of their exports. People will be
factoring that in when they look at companies like Nestle and
other major exporters.”  On Bank of  Japan :  In 2004, “they continued to intervene and eventually drove
the  U.S. dollar  from 105 to 123. That is the level of effort
that is going to be necessary from the  Swiss National Bank  to
make this work for them.”  “There will be additional central bank moves this week.
The next one would be  Bank of Japan .”  “This is a wonderful opportunity for the Japanese to step
up begin overt intervention.”  “My guess is that Japanese exporters will be up tonight on
this news.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  