-- 
Sydney Police Close Street After Reports of Man With Bomb Holding a Child

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-09-06T04:49:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/sydney-police-close-street-after-bomb-reports.html
A man claiming to have a bomb in a
backpack has triggered a standoff with  police  in a western
Sydney neighborhood, forcing the closure of a street and
evacuation of a building housing lawyers’ offices.  The man, who appears to be in his early 50s, has a young
girl with him, who is in her early teens, and has made threats,
New South Wales Police Assistant Commissioner Denis Clifford
said in a televised news conference today. Clifford didn’t
elaborate on the sorts of threats that were made.  “Our first priority is to secure the release of the young
girl,” Clifford said. The talks with the man “will go on for
as long as it takes to reach a peaceful resolution.”  The man, who hasn’t been identified, went inside the
building housing lawyers’ offices in Parramatta about 9 a.m. and
demanded to see an attorney, Channel 9 News reported. When told
the lawyer he sought didn’t work there, the man became agitated
and said he had a bomb in a backpack, Channel 9 said.  The building was evacuated and there’s no immediate danger
to the public, Clifford said.  Television video showed a bare-chested man with a lawyer’s
wig on his head standing at a window. He gave two thumbs up,
took off the wig and gave thumbs down.  Footage from  Sky News  showed police, fire and ambulance
vehicles lining the street in front of the building, which is
across from a district and family court complex.  Police negotiators are at the scene and have been talking
with the man for several hours, Clifford said. The man’s
complaints aren’t related to any family court issues, the
assistant commissioner said.  Collar Bomb Hoax  “The negotiators are working through each one of those”
issues, he said. “It’s a very delicate situation.”  Last month, an 18-year-old Sydney schoolgirl was caught up
in a bomb scare when a masked man entered her home in the Sydney
neighborhood of Mosman and attached a device to her neck. After
10 hours, police determined the device was harmless and freed
her.  A 50-year Australian man was arrested in  Kentucky , where he
now faces an extradition hearing, scheduled for Oct. 14 in
Louisville.  To contact the reporter on this story: Joe Schneider in Sydney
at   jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Douglas Wong
at   dwong19@bloomberg.net  