-- 
Syria Kills 15 Anti-Assad Protesters Before Visit by Arab League Officials

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-09-06T07:16:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/syrian-security-forces-kill-10-protesters-before-visit-by-arab-league-head.html
Syrian security forces killed at
least 15 protesters before a planned visit to Damascus by the
head of the 22-member state  Arab League  for talks on the six
months of conflict in the nation.  Demonstrators were killed yesterday in the central city of
Homs and the northern province of Idlib, according to Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights. Security
forces also carried out a “major assault” yesterday on the
town of Nawa, near the southern province of Daraa where the
uprising began in March, Merhi said by phone today.  Arab League Secretary-General Nabil el-Arabi will visit
Damascus tomorrow,  Egypt ’s state-run Middle East News Agency
reported yesterday, without saying how it got the information.
The visit takes place in the wake of expanded sanctions by the
European Union in response to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s
crackdown on dissent.  Assad, who inherited power from his father 11 years ago,
faces the biggest challenge to his rule as international
pressure to end the violence increases. The EU announced on
Sept. 3 that it had added four people and three companies to the
list of those targeted by an asset freeze and travel ban against
 Syria , where the unrest began in mid-March. A day earlier, the
EU banned imports of Syrian oil.  ‘Lost All Legitimacy’  U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron yesterday called on Assad
to leave office, saying in the House of Commons that “he has
lost all legitimacy and can no longer claim to lead Syria.”  Cameron said the U.K. will continue to argue at the  United
Nations  to build on the EU’s oil embargo. Syria shipped 3.2
billion euros ($4.5 billion) of oil to the EU last year, about
88 percent of its total exports to the bloc, according to EU
figures. The U.S. imposed a similar ban last month.  More than 2,450 civilians and 700 members of the security
forces have been killed during the crackdown, while 15,000
people have been injured and at least 20,000 are in prison,
according to Merhi.  The president of the International Committee of the Red
Cross, Jakob Kellenberger, said after a meeting with Assad
yesterday that his delegation was given permission to visit the
Damascus Central Prison. “We are hopeful that we will soon be
able to visit all detainees,” he said in a statement.  Merhi said human-rights organizations should be permitted
to visit prison inmates throughout Syria, including those in
facilities run by the security services that aren’t controlled
by the Interior Ministry.  Security forces have failed to halt the protests, which
were inspired by unrest across the  Middle East  and North Africa
that unseated Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in
January and Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  the following
month.  Muammar Qaddafi  is in hiding after an uprising ended his
control over most of  Libya .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 