-- 
U.K. Pound Weakens as Retail Sales Report Spurs BOE Stimulus Speculation

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-09-06T15:47:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/u-k-pound-weakens-as-retail-sales-report-spurs-boe-stimulus-speculation.html
The pound fell below $1.60 for the
first time in almost two months as a report showed U.K. retail
sales dropped in August, fueling speculation the Bank of England
may embark on more stimulus measures as early as this week.  Sterling snapped four days of gains against the euro. Sales
at stores open at least 12 months, measured by value, fell 0.6
percent from a year earlier, the British Retail Consortium said
today. U.K. two-year gilts dropped as the European Central Bank
was said to be buying bonds of some euro-area nations. The Bank
of England is due to meet in two days’ time.  “It’s inevitable that there will be further QE ahead,”
said Neil Jones, head of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. in London. “That should keep the pound
weaker long term against a broad spectrum of currencies.”  Sterling depreciated 1 percent to $1.5964 at 4:44 p.m. in
London, adding to yesterday’s 0.6 percent loss. The pound traded
below $1.60 for the first time since July 13. It was 0.4 percent
weaker at 87.78 pence per euro.  The pound has weakened 6 percent in the past 12 months
against a basket of nine major peers, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. Only the dollar has
declined more, depreciating 9.7 percent.  U.K. gilts declined as speculation the ECB bought euro-
region bonds sapped demand for safer assets.  Gilts Drop  Gilts halted a three-day advance, with the 10-year yield
gaining one basis point to 2.30 percent. The two-year note yield
rose five basis points to 0.58 percent, after dropping to a
record low 0.49 percent yesterday.  “The ECB is said to be buying Spanish bonds, so there’s a
little bit of support for the weaker markets, which takes a bit
of the edge off the so-called safe-haven countries,” said
Elisabeth Afseth, a fixed-income analyst at Evolution Securities
Ltd. in London. “They might wait a little bit but the balance
is clearly moving in favor of further QE at some stage.”  Gilts have handed investors a 10 percent return this year,
compared with 7.4 percent from German debt and 8.3 percent from
U.S. Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  The bonds outperformed as data signaling the economic
recovery was floundering fueled speculation the Bank of England
will keep interest rates at a record low and may resume asset
purchases, or quantitative easing, to boost the economy.  Traders bet the central bank will cut rates by 10 basis
points over the next 12 months, according to a Credit Suisse
Group AG index based on swaps.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  