-- 
U.K. Finance Must Stop ‘Self-Imposed Flagellation,’ Levene Says

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-09-06T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/u-k-finance-must-stop-self-imposed-flagellation-levene-says.html
U.K. banks, insurers and
professional services should stop “self-imposed flagellation”
and spur the country back to growth, according to  Peter Levene ,
chairman of the  Lloyd’s of  London  insurance market.  “The British economy needs to be on a quest for growth,”
Levene, 69, said at Lloyd’s annual dinner in London today.
“That search should begin here, in this square mile of banks,
insurers, accountants and all the manifold businesses, which
together make up the financial services industry.”  The U.K. economy has stagnated after rebounding from the
worst recession in a generation, expanding 0.2 percent in the
second quarter as consumer and business confidence dropped amid
the European debt crisis and inflation. Even though the banks
nearly collapsed in 2008, causing the rout, the financial-
services industry is still the best hope of returning the
country to growth, Levene said.  Bailing out lenders including  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc (RBS)  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  prompted the government to
impose a tax on bank profits and lawmakers are currently
investigating ways of raising capital reserves and implementing
firebreaks around banks’ consumer divisions.  “We happen in this country to be world leaders in the
finance sector, so let us now get it right, return to
respectability and stop bashing ourselves on the head,” said
Levene, who was speaking at his last Lloyd’s annual dinner
before he steps down as chairman next month. “This self-imposed
flagellation just has to stop.”  Focal Point  Banking, insurance and professional services are primed to
become the focal point of the recovery, Levene said, citing data
from the  Office for National Statistics  that showed output from
the industry grew by 20 billion pounds ($32.2 billion) in the
last five years.  During that time, the government was forced to bail out
banks at a cost of about 1 trillion pounds in capital and
government guarantees.  Chancellor  George Osborne , who also spoke at the dinner,
has made cutting the country’s budget deficit his main target
since taking office last year. Reducing borrowing costs is the
best way of boosting long-term growth, he has said.  “Every question facing British society, politics and
economics comes down to achieving competitive and sustainable
growth,” Levene said. “Making money which will cut deficits,
create jobs and fund public services, not least the growing
pensions bill.”  Levene last year founded  NBNK Investments Plc (NBNK) , a fund which
seeks to acquire banking assets and create a new consumer
lender. The company is in talks to buy National Australia Bank
Ltd.’s U.K. units, a person with knowledge of the situation said
today.  John Nelson , chairman of property firm  Hammerson Plc (HMSO)  and a
former Credit Suisse AG banker, will replace Levene as chairman
of Lloyd’s, the world’s oldest insurance market, next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 