-- 
U.S. Envoys Return to Mideast as UN Vote on Palestinian Statehood Nears

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-09-06T21:49:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/u-s-envoys-return-to-mideast-as-un-vote-on-palestinian-statehood-nears.html
The U.S. has sent two envoys to the
 Middle East  to try to revive Israeli-Palestinian talks and ward
off looming United Nations votes to recognize the Palestinian
territories as a state.  David Hale , President Barack Obama’s special envoy on
Middle East peace efforts, and White House adviser Dennis Ross,
were in Israel today to talk with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Defense Minister Ehud Barak about restarting talks
“and avoiding bad scenarios at the end of the month in New
York,” said  Victoria Nuland , the State Department spokeswoman.  Hale planned to meet with Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  tomorrow, she said.  About 140 countries are likely to support a Palestinian bid
for statehood recognition at the United Nations General Assembly
later this month, Palestinian negotiator Nabil Shaath said Sept.
4 on Palestinian television.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  reiterated today the
administration’s position that the Palestinians will not achieve
statehood through a UN resolution and that “peace has to be
negotiated directly” with  Israel .  “This is not the right course of action,” Carney said of
a UN effort, calling it “not productive.”  Nuland said the U.S. has been lobbying countries on the
issue, talking to “a much broader selection of countries than
we usually talk to about Middle East peace because many of them,
who don’t usually get confronted with decisions like this, could
be confronted with a decision in the General Assembly.”  The Palestinian approach “is the wrong way to go"” and
could make getting back to the negotiating table harder, she
said.  “Our goal is to have these parties committed to coming
back to the table before we get to the” UN General Assembly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  