-- 
U.S. Company Risk Measure Jumps as Europe Evokes ‘08 Comparison

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-09-06T21:09:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/u-s-company-risk-gauge-rises-to-highest-since-june-2010-on-europe-crisis.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate
credit risk climbed on concern that  Europe ’s fiscal imbalances
will hurt U.S. debt markets, as bankers cite parallels to the
2008 financial crisis.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, rose 5.4 basis points from Sept.
2 to a mid-price of 126.4 as of 4:52 p.m. in New York, according
to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. The measure is at the
highest closing price since reaching a more than one-year high
of 126.8 on Aug. 22.  The index has increased from 95.8 basis points on Aug. 1 as
investor concerns have mounted about the faltering U.S. economic
recovery and upheaval in Europe’s government bond markets. The
gauge typically rises as investor confidence deteriorates and
falls as it improves. Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive Officer
Josef Ackermann  said  yesterday at a conference in  Frankfurt 
organized by Euroforum that conditions in the stock and bond
markets are reminiscent of three years ago.  “It’s a very gloomy market environment right now,” said
 Rizwan Hussain , a credit strategist at Morgan Stanley in New
York. “An ‘08 type of comparison clearly does not bode well.’’  The collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September
of 2008 froze credit markets and forced taxpayer-funded bailouts
of banks.  BofA Swaps Climb  Credit-default swaps on Charlotte, North Carolina-based
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  climbed 26.1 basis points from Sept. 2 to
352.9 basis points, according to data provider CMA, as the
largest U.S. lender’s bid to resolve mortgage liabilities with
an $8.5 billion settlement faces drawn-out litigation and may
require a bigger payout as investors and regulators scrutinize
the deal.  The Federal Housing Finance Agency, the regulator of
mortgage-finance companies  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , sued 17
banks, including Bank of America, to recover losses on mortgage-
backed securities sold to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The agency
sued Countrywide separately in state court in  Manhattan  over
transactions covered in the Bank of America settlement.  U.S. markets were closed yesterday for the Labor Day public
holiday. Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  