-- 
U.S. Economy ‘Unlikely’ to Need Additional Easing, Fed’s Kocherlakota Says

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-09-06T18:53:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/u-s-economy-unlikely-to-need-additional-easing-fed-s-kocherlakota-says.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said the  U.S. economy  didn’t
need additional stimulus in August and probably won’t require
more easing this month.  “The data in August did not justify the additional
accommodation provided” by the central bank on Aug. 9,
Kocherlakota said today in a speech in Minneapolis. “It is
unlikely that the data in September will warrant adding still
more accommodation.”  Kocherlakota signaled reluctance to back more stimulus even
after the Labor Department reported last week that the economy
added no jobs in August and the  unemployment rate  remained
unchanged at 9.1 percent. His speech is similar to remarks he
delivered last week in Bismarck,  North Dakota .  Payrolls were unchanged, the weakest reading since
September 2010, the Labor Department said Sept. 2. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called for a gain of 68,000.
The August jobless rate marked the 29th consecutive month of
unemployment near 9 percent or higher.  Kocherlakota said last month he opposed a plan by the
central bank to keep interest rates low at least through mid-
2013 in part because monetary stimulus had reduced the jobless
rate. More easing won’t be necessary unless inflation slows or
unemployment rises, he said to reporters on Aug. 30.  “It continues to be a concern going forward, that there
are strong disinflationary pressures” in the economy,
Kocherlakota said in response to audience questions at the
 University of Minnesota ’s Carlson School of Management.  ‘Doing Very Well’  “I think right now we’re doing very well in that
perspective,” he said, citing the rise in inflation since the
summer of 2010 and his forecast that inflation will remain at
around 2 percent during this year and next.  Asked if he thought the economy would relapse into
recession, the regional Fed chief said “it’s my expectation we
will not have a recession.”  “I still see sufficient sources of strength in the
economy,” he said, saying that the unwinding of temporary
factors, like supply chain disruptions from the Japanese
earthquakes and tsunami and the spike in energy prices, would
provide a “little impetus” to growth.  On Aug. 9, Kocherlakota joined two other regional bank
presidents,  Charles Plosser  of Philadelphia and  Richard Fisher 
of  Dallas , in posing the most opposition to a Fed decision since
1992. They dissented from the FOMC’s pledge to hold interest
rates in a range of zero to 0.25 percent until at least mid-
2013, preferring instead to maintain a commitment to do so for
an unspecified “extended period.”  A ‘Bit’ Lower  “The Committee’s decision in August to make monetary
policy more accommodative is inconsistent with its declared
intention to keep inflation at 2 percent or a bit under,”
Kocherlakota said.  The Fed needs to formulate and communicate its objective
for inflation, Kocherlakota said.  “Most importantly, it needs to ensure the credibility of
that communication by responding to macroeconomic conditions so
as to ensure that inflation stays close to its announced
objective,” he said. “Losing that credibility would represent
a substantial failure on the  Federal Reserve ’s price stability
mandate and would also likely lead to substantial failures on
the Federal Reserve’s maximum employment mandate.”  A few Fed policy makers in August favored more aggressive
action to stimulate the economy and lower unemployment, minutes
of their meeting released last week showed.  Bigger Move  Those members, who weren’t identified, “felt that recent
economic developments justified a more substantial move” beyond
the pledge adopted at the last FOMC meeting to hold its key
 interest rate  at a record low until mid-2013.  The Fed may decide at its next meeting on Sept. 20-21 to
replace short-term  Treasury securities  in its $1.65 trillion
portfolio with long-term bonds in a bid to lower rates on
everything from mortgages to  car loans , said economists at Wells
Fargo & Co., T. Rowe Price Associates Inc., Barclay’s Capital
Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “Any additional provision of accommodation in September or
thereafter will have to be judged on its own merits,”
Kocherlakota said. “Some readers or listeners may have found
this statement to be imprecise. So, let me elaborate on what I
meant then, and continue to believe. I assess FOMC actions in
light of the incoming data and the Committee’s communicated
objective of keeping inflation at 2 percent or a bit under.”  Inflation Rate  The personal consumption expenditures price index rose 2.8
percent from a year earlier in July, compared with 1.2 percent
in November when the Fed launched its $600 billion round of
asset purchases known as QE2 for the second round of
quantitative easing. Excluding food and energy, the index rose
1.6 percent from a year ago, compared with 1 percent in
November. The Fed aims for annual inflation of 1.7 percent to 2
percent.  Political infighting over the budget and mounting fear of a
default in  Europe  helped drive the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
down 17 percent from July 22 to the start of the Fed’s last
policy meeting on Aug. 8, prompting companies and consumers to
cut back. The  S&P 500  fell 1.5 percent to 1,160.92 at 2:45 p.m.
in  New York .  Kocherlakota, 47, received his doctorate in economics from
the  University of Chicago . He taught at the University of
Minnesota before becoming president of the  Minneapolis  Fed in
October 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Minneapolis at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  