-- 
Federer, Nadal, Djokovic Set to Play as U.S. Open Resumes After Rain Delay

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-07T16:38:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/u-s-open-tennis-tournament-is-canceled-for-rest-of-day-on-rain-forecast.html
The  U.S. Open  got under way 90
minutes late today, one day after weather conditions washed out
the entire schedule.  The forecast calls for scattered showers through the day
and night at the National Tennis Center in New York, as the
tournament organizers try to squeeze in 10 singles matches
today.  “Today’s weather forecast calls for intermittent drizzle
with some possible periods of dryness this afternoon,”
tournament organizers said in a statement on the U.S. Open
website. “We continue to monitor the weather and will make
every effort to play today’s scheduled matches.”  Four men’s fourth-round matches and two women’s
quarterfinals were canceled yesterday as rain fell throughout
the day. All four women’s quarterfinals, two men’s quarterfinals
and four men’s fourth-round matches are planned for today.  Defending champion  Rafael Nadal , the men’s No. 2 seed from
Spain, faces Gilles Muller of Luxembourg in Arthur Ashe Stadium.  Andy Roddick , the 2003 U.S. Open champion and highest-
seeded American man left at No. 21, was also set to play at 11
a.m. against No. 5  David Ferrer  of Spain in Louis Armstrong
Stadium.  Andy Murray , the fourth seed from the U.K., was to play
at the same time on the Grandstand court against American wild-
card entry Donald Young. No. 28 John Isner of the U.S. and No.
12 Gilles Simon of France also meet in a  fourth-round match,
which was moved to Court 17 after originally being scheduled for
the Grandstand.  Djokovic, Federer  Top-seeded Novak Djokovic is scheduled to play fellow Serb
Janko Tipsarevic in the first men’s quarterfinal in Arthur Ashe
Stadium.  Roger Federer , a five-time U.S. Open champion and No. 3
seed from Switzerland, is set to face No. 11 Jo-Wilfried Tsonga
of France in a quarterfinal night match on the featured court.  The first match scheduled for tonight is a women’s
quarterfinal between three-time champion  Serena Williams  of the
U.S. and No. 17 Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova of Russia.  Williams is favored by oddsmakers to win the tournament
even though she was seeded 28th after two injury-marred years.  Women’s top seed  Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark is scheduled
to play No. 10  Andrea Petkovic  of Germany, while the other
women’s quarterfinals feature No. 2 Vera Zvonareva of Russia
against No. 9 Samantha Stosur of Australia, and No. 26  Flavia Pennetta  of Italy against Angelique Kerber of  Germany .  Unwanted Disruption  Rain delays could pose different challenges for players
from yesterday’s cancellation, said 1978 U.S. Open runner-up Pam Shriver, now a broadcaster for ESPN.  “What gets hard is when you’re almost on and it rains
again, or you’re on and have to get off,” Shriver told
 usopen.org . “Because then you’re getting yourself emotionally
ready and then you’re waiting again.”  Rain delays aren’t new for the U.S. Open, the last of
tennis’s four annual major championships.  The tournament has been extended one day each of the past
three years, leading to a Monday men’s finale. The U.S. tennis
championships have been extended because of inclement weather 13
times since 1935, according to the U.S. Tennis Association.  “We’re still on course to finish on Saturday for the women
and Sunday for the men,” tournament referee Brian Earley said
in a televised interview with ESPN today. “If we lose today and
tomorrow, then we’re going to really be concerned.”  None of the 17 competition courts at the National Tennis
Center has a retractable roof such as those at the Australian
Open and Wimbledon, two of the sport’s other three majors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 