-- 
U.S. August Conference Board Employment Trends Index (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-09-06T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/u-s-august-conference-board-employment-trends-index-text-.html
Following is the text of U.S. employment trends index
from the Conference Board.  The Conference Board Employment Trends Index decreased again in August to 100.8,
down from July’s revised figure of 101. The August figure is up 4.1 percent from a
year ago.  Says Gad Levanon, Associate Director of Macroeconomic Research at The
Conference Board: “While the Employment Trends Index has been on a slightly
declining trend in recent months, the decline in the index is still not as strong as
it was in the months leading to previous recessions. We still expect the economy to
moderately add jobs in the next several months, but not fast enough to lower the
 unemployment rate .”  This month’s decrease in the ETI was driven by negative contributions from six
out of the eight components. The weakening indicators include The Conference Board
Consumer Confidence Survey “Jobs Hard to Get,” Initial Claims for Unemployment
Insurance, Part-Time Workers for Economic Reasons,  Job Openings ,  Industrial
Production  and Real Manufacturing and Trade Sales.  The Employment Trends Index aggregates eight labor-market indicators, each of
which has proven accurate in its own area. Aggregating individual indicators into a
composite index filters out so-called “noise” to show underlying trends more clearly.
The eight labor-market indicators aggregated into the Employment Trends Index
include:  Percentage of Respondents Who Say They Find “Jobs Hard to Get” (The Conference
Board Consumer Confidence Survey)  Initial Claims for  Unemployment Insurance  (U.S. Department of Labor)  Percentage of Firms With Positions Not Able to Fill Right Now (National
Federation of Independent Business Research Foundation)  Number of Employees Hired by the Temporary-Help Industry ( U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics )  Part-Time Workers for Economic Reasons (BLS)  Job Openings (BLS)  Industrial Production (Federal Reserve Board)  Real Manufacturing and Trade Sales (U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis)  The Conference Board publishes the Employment Trends Index monthly, at 10 a.m.
ET on the Monday that follows each Friday release of the Bureau of Labor Statistics
employment situation report. The technical notes to this series are available on The
Conference Board website:  http://www.conferenceboard . org/data/eti.cfm.  ABOUT THE CONFERENCE BOARD The Conference Board is a global, independent
business membership and research association working in the public interest. Our
mission is unique: To provide the world’s leading organizations with the practical
knowledge they need to improve their performance and better serve society. The
Conference Board is a nonadvocacy, not-for-profit entity holding 501 (c) (3) tax-
exempt status in the  United States . www.conference-board.org  Employment Trends Index 2011 Publication Schedule
Index Release Date (10 AM ET)                Data for the Month
* Tuesday, October 11                        September
Monday, November 7                           October
Monday, December 5                           November
* Tuesday releases due to holidays  SOURCE: The Conference Board
 http://www.conference-board.org 
