-- 
U.S. Soybean Demand May Intensify on Crop Result, Oil World Says

-- B y   S h a r o n   L i n d o r e s
-- 
2011-09-06T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/u-s-soybean-demand-may-intensify-on-crop-result-oil-world-says.html
Demand for U.S. soybeans may
intensify if the harvest comes in below estimates, potentially
driving prices higher should South American countries miss out
on the rain they need to fill the gap, Oil World said.  Soybean futures for November rallied to $14.65 a bushel in
 Chicago  on Aug. 31, the highest level for the most-active
contract in more than three years, on a deterioration in the
crop due to dryness and heat in the U.S., according to a report
today from Hamburg-based oilseeds analysts Oil World.  “Given the growing likelihood that the U.S. soybean crop
turns out even below the USDA estimate of Aug. 11 of 83.2
million metric tons (down 7.4 million tons from a year ago),
demand for U.S. soybeans must indeed be rationed and most of
this will probably be done in exports,” the analysts wrote.  The U.S. received less rain than usual in parts of the
Midwest last month, with Iowa getting 52 percent of the normal
amount, Illinois 64 percent, Indiana 86 percent and  South Dakota 
62 percent, hurting soybean yield potential, according to the
report.  Investment “poured” into agricultural commodities in
recent weeks, attracted by the deterioration of U.S. crop
conditions, Oil World said. That created “overbought
conditions” that unfolded on Sept. 1, Oil World said, when
soybean futures retreated 1.6 percent, the biggest loss since
Aug. 8.  During the rally, importers took advantage of large stocks
in Argentina and  Brazil , which were at a record level at the end
of August and about 8 million tons higher than a year earlier,
according to Oil World. These stocks may offset the decline in
U.S. supplies until early 2012, it said.  Will Prices Rise?  Still, new-crop prospects in  South America  are “quite
uncertain” due to competition for acreage from corn, current
dryness and the threat of La Nina, a cooling of the  Pacific
Ocean  that can cause major climate fluctuations and affect rain
patterns, Oil World said.  “It will strongly depend on weather conditions and crop
prospects in South America whether the price highs were already
established in August, or whether a further uptrend will occur
in coming weeks,” the analysts said.  China said yesterday that it will increase soybean
stockpiles to ensure supplies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Lindores in London at 
 slindores@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  