-- 
U.S. Service Economy Unexpectedly Grows at Faster Pace in ISM August Index

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-09-06T20:06:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/u-s-ism-services-index-increased-in-august.html
Service industries  unexpectedly
expanded at a faster pace in August, easing concern the biggest
part of the  U.S. economy  was slumping.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses increased to 53.3 last month from 52.7
in July. Economists forecast the gauge would drop to 51,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. A
reading above 50 signals expansion.  A pickup among the non-manufacturing industries that
account for about 90 percent of the economy shows the recovery
may persist amid dimming job prospects and rising pessimism
about the economic outlook. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last month that the economy will probably improve
in the second half of this year.  “The service sector has been slower to show the extent of
the slowdown,” said  Lindsey Piegza , an economist at FTN
Financial in New York. “The economy is stuck in first gear,
which is better than being in reverse, but the report certainly
isn’t saying that we’re moving into second gear in the second
half of the year.”  Estimates for the index from 74 economists ranged from 49
to 53.5. The Tempe, Arizona-based group’s measure, which covers
about 90 percent of the economy, averaged 56.1 in the five years
to December 2007, when the last recession began.  Stocks fell on growing concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis is
worsening. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.7 percent
to 1,165.24 at the 4 p.m. close in  New York . Treasuries rose,
pushing down the yield on the benchmark 10-year note to 1.97
percent, after reaching a record-low 1.91 percent earlier, from
1.99 percent yesterday.  Orders Pick Up  The index of new orders in the services industry increased
to 52.8 from 51.7 the prior month. A gauge of business activity
fell to 55.6 from 56.1 in July. The measure of prices paid
increased to 64.2 from 56.6.  The group’s employment index declined to 51.6, the lowest
since September 2010, from 52.5 a month earlier.  The ISM services survey covers industries ranging from
utilities and retailing to health care and finance. Today’s
report follows the group’s Sept. 1 figures that showed
manufacturing unexpectedly expanded in August, allaying concern
the world’s largest economy is headed for another recession.  A struggling labor market and economic growth that slowed
in the first half of the year have weighed on sentiment,
prompting Americans to limit purchases of non-essential goods
and services.  Consumer Confidence   The Conference Board’s index of consumer confidence dropped
last week to the lowest level since April 2009, and the
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index has been stuck below minus 40
since the end of February, the level associated with recessions.  Employment unexpectedly stagnated in August as employers
became less sanguine about the strength of the recovery. Private
payrolls, which exclude government agencies, rose 17,000 in
August, the smallest gain since a decrease in February 2010. The
jobless rate held at 9.1 percent, and earnings and hours worked
declined, reducing the income of consumers whose spending
accounts for 70 percent of the economy.  President  Barack Obama  has requested a joint session of
Congress on Sept. 8 to unveil his proposals to promote job
growth. Obama said in a letter to House Speaker  John Boehner 
that the nation faces “unprecedented” economic challenges.  Rising prices have also hurt consumer buying power. An Aug.
29 Commerce Department report showed that the income left after
taking out taxes and adjusting for inflation dropped 0.1 percent
in July, the first decrease since September 2010.  “I continue to see customers who are still struggling,”
Rick Dreiling, chief executive officer of Goodlettsville,
Tennessee-based  Dollar General Corp. (DG)  said in Aug. 30 call with
analysts. “The macroeconomic environment has remained difficult
for consumers who continue to face high unemployment rates, high
gasoline and high food costs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  