-- 
Ugandan Shilling Weakens First Day in 3 Even as Bank Raises Interest Rate

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-09-06T13:30:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/ugandan-shilling-falls-first-day-in-3-as-companies-sell-dollars.html
Uganda ’s shilling, the world’s worst
performer this year, weakened for the first day in three after
the central bank’s  interest-rate  failed to curb demand for the
dollar.  The currency of  East Africa ’s third-biggest economy
depreciated 0.3 percent to 2,816 per dollar by 3:44 p.m. in the
capital, Kampala, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency closed at 2,808 yesterday.  Uganda’s central bank today boosted its benchmark interest
rate by 2 percentage points to 16 percent to curb a slump in the
shilling and rein in inflation, Deputy Governor Louis Kasekende
said today. The shilling, which reached the weakest since 1993
on Aug. 26, has declined 8.6 percent in the last two months and
18 percent this year against the dollar, making it the world’s
worst-performing currency during both periods against the
dollar.  “There is still some strong demand for the dollar by
different sectors,” Lucas Ochieng, the head of  currency trading 
at Orient Bank Ltd., said by phone from Kampala.  The central bank sold $107 million since the beginning of
the year to shore up the shilling, Adam Mugume, the acting
 executive director  for research, told reporters today in
Kampala.  A surge in food and fuel prices pushed inflation to a more
than 18-year high of 21.4 percent in August from 18.8 percent in
July, the Uganda Bureau of Statistics said on Aug. 31.  A delay in passing the government’s budget, normally done
in July, has contributed to the shortage of the local currency
in the market as is has delayed government expenditure, Orient’s
Ochieng said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  