-- 
Uganda Lifts Benchmark Rate to 16%, Warns of More Increases

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-09-06T14:59:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/uganda-s-central-bank-raises-key-interest-rate-to-16-to-curb-inflation.html
Uganda ’s central bank boosted its
benchmark  interest rate  by 2 percentage points to rein in an 18
year-high inflation rate and curb a slump in the shilling.  The central bank rate was increased to 16 percent, Louis Kasekende, deputy governor of the Bank of Uganda, told reporters
today in the capital, Kampala. The bank lifted the rate by 1
percentage point in August after setting it at 13 percent when
it was introduced in July.  Inflation surged to 21.4 percent in August from 18.8
percent in the previous month as the worst regional drought in
60 years boosted food costs and a weaker shilling drove up
import prices. The bank aims to bring the underlying inflation
rate, which excludes food, energy and water, to 5 percent from
20 percent in August.  “If the inflation outlook deteriorates in the next few
months, the Bank of Uganda will implement further increases in
the central  bank rate ,” Kasekende said.  Inflation will probably ease toward the end of the year and
in 2012, with  core inflation  expected to reach between 10
percent and 14 percent by September next year, Kasekende said.  “Recent inflation developments point to significant
deterioration in the inflation backdrop,” Ridle Markus, an
economist at Absa Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in a note to
clients. “The bias for further monetary tightening remains.”  Shilling Support  Inflation will probably peak at 22 percent in the fourth
quarter, Markus said.  Higher interest rates may help to support the shilling,
which plunged 18 percent against the dollar this year, the worst
performer of 176 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “It’s expected to support the shilling,” Kasekende said.
“The rate on Treasury bills and bonds will also increase and
there will be interest, not only by Ugandans, but also from
investors abroad. That may lead to capital inflows.”  The shilling fell as much as 0.3 percent to 2,817 against
the dollar today and was trading at 2,812 as of 5:41 p.m. in
Kampala. Demand for Ugandan Treasury bills has slumped this
year, with the yield on the 91-day security reaching 16.021
percent on Aug. 24 compared with 11.9 percent on May 26.  Uganda,  East Africa ’s third-biggest economy and the
continent’s second-largest coffee producer, is scheduled to
become an oil producer next year when  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  begins
pumping crude and gas from the Lake Albert Basin. The central
bank expects the economy to expand 5 percent in the year through
June 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  