-- 
Hungary Presents Steps to Erase Part of Budget Hole, Trim Debt

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-09-06T17:27:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/hungary-presents-steps-to-erase-part-of-budget-hole-trim-debt.html
Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  announced measures to erase part of a $1.8 billion hole in
its budget, pledging to cut next year’s deficit to below 3
percent of output and reduce debt.  Hungary will raise excise duties, halt public procurements
and collect more value-added tax to partially cover this year’s
budget gap, Orban said today after a two-day Cabinet meeting in
the town of Lovasbereny in western Hungary. It will also spend 4
billion euros ($5.6 billion) to trim 4 percentage points from
debt, bringing it to 73 percent of gross domestic product.  Orban’s government is working on measures to plug a 350
billion-forint ($1.8 billion) budget hole after economic growth
missed forecasts and the European Union ruled Hungary must
return 250 billion forint of VAT. The government lowered its
2011 growth forecast to 2 percent from 3.1 percent and sees the
same figure in 2012, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said.  “Our economic policy priority is to regain Hungary’s
sovereignty and defeat debt even in the face of newer and newer
challenges,” Orban said.  Halting procurements, increasing excise taxes on diesel,
gambling, alcohol and tobacco and cracking down on evasion of
VAT will generate 100 billion forint, according to Matolcsy. A
further 250 billion forint in savings will be announced Sept.
12, Orban said.  Increasing VAT collection is “highly uncertain,” said
 Gyorgy Barta , a Budapest-based economist at CIB Bank Zrt., a
unit of Intesa Sanpaolo SpA. “The growth forecasts for both
2011 and 2012 appear realistic and the fact the government is
using a 2 percent GDP projection for drafting next year’s budget
suggests more prudent planning.”  Hungary  is targeting a 2.5 percent budget deficit next
year, compared with 4.3 percent in 2010 and a 2011 surplus after
the effective nationalization of private-pension funds and
temporary taxes on the energy, financial-services, retail and
telecommunications industries.  The government used the $16 billion of private pension
assets to cut state debt to 77 percent of GDP from 81 percent,
the highest among the EU’s eastern members.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  