-- 
Upton’s Service on Debt Supercommittee May Cost Him in 2012 Election

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-09-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/upton-s-supercommittee-seat-may-cost-him-in-next-year-s-election.html
Michigan  Republican Fred Upton has
long relied on independents like retired high school teacher
Frank Cody to help him win re-election. The congressman’s
service on a debt-cutting supercommittee may put that support at
risk.  Upton, 58, was tapped by Republican House Speaker  John Boehner  last month to serve on the bipartisan panel assigned to
find $1.5 trillion in savings on the national debt.  “Clearly this has as much chance of being a political
liability to him as it does a political asset,” said Saul
Anuzis, a former Michigan Republican Party chairman.  In places like Kalamazoo, the heart of Upton’s  sixth
district  in southwestern Michigan, constituents are warning the
congressman, with 13 two-year terms in office, against
supporting deep cuts in Social Security and Medicare benefits to
meet that goal.  “We as seniors don’t mind sharing some of the pain, but we
don’t want that pain to be dumped on seniors who can’t afford
it,” said Cody, 70, chairman of the Kalamazoo County Advocates
for Senior Issues, a non-profit volunteer group. “It could be
pretty serious for me” if Upton supports such a plan, he said.
“I could move into the other column.”  While the voters at home are pressing to protect
entitlement programs, Upton and his five Republican colleagues
on the panel are under pressure from their leadership in
Washington and the  Tea Party  to champion those very cutbacks.  Tea Party Republicans  Democrats in Upton’s district see a rare opportunity to
challenge an incumbent caught between the Tea Party Republicans
and the moderate voters who dominate his district’s general
elections.  “Chairman Upton fully recognizes the immense challenges of
this assignment, and he accepted it as a historic opportunity to
help get our economy back on track and create jobs, which is his
top priority for Michigan and the country,” his spokeswoman
Alexa Marrero said in an e-mail.  Unseating Upton would require a major shift in voter
preferences. He has carried the district with at least 60
percent of the vote in 11 of his 13 elections starting in 1986.
Even so, Upton’s constituents voted by a 10-percentage-point
margin for President  Barack Obama  in 2008.  “He’s got to be very circumspect,” said Bill Ballenger,
publisher of the Inside Michigan Politics newsletter in Lansing.
“He wants to appease the right, but at the same time leave the
general impression in the public that he hasn’t completely sold
out to the Tea Party and he’s still the good old reasonable,
moderate  Fred Upton .”  2010 Midterms  Upton had to confront those countervailing political
pressures in the 2010 midterms, when he beat back a primary
challenge from Jack Hoogendyk, a former state representative
with Tea Party support, by a margin of 57 to 43 percent. Thus
far, no primary challenger has emerged for 2012.  Four Democrats are already lining up to challenge him next
year, said  Mark Miller , the district’s  Democratic Party 
chairman. “When he votes to make those very painful cuts to
entitlements, it’s going to wake up a lot of people,” said
Miller. “It’ll move a lot of votes.”  Most of the 11 other supercommittee members are in safer
seats. Upton’s five House colleagues won with decisive margins
even though Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican also
on the panel, is from a district that voted for Obama by 2
percentage points. Of the six senators, five aren’t up for re-
election next year and Republican  Jon Kyl  of  Arizona  decided not
to seek another term.  Social Security Recipients  That’s not to say they are immune from political fall-out.
The House members on the committee with the highest  percentage 
of district residents receiving Social Security, at 20 percent
or more, are Republicans Upton and Camp as well as South
Carolina Democrat Jim Clyburn, according to Strengthen Social
Security, a coalition of labor and other groups that opposes
benefit cuts.  Upton’s low-key style -- he fetches his own coffee, goes by
“Fred,” and keeps a display box of  Battle Creek , Michigan-
based  Kellogg Co. (K) ’s Frosted Flakes cereal on his Capitol Hill
office desk -- hasn’t allayed fears back home, where voters plan
to closely follow his actions on the supercommittee.  On Aug. 15, Upton spoke to a crowd of about 200 people at
the  Coover Senior Center  in Kalamazoo. The annual event, which
usually draws about 60 participants, attracted locals of all
ages because of Upton’s new role, said Cody. Another 200 waited
outside the standing-room-only event.  ‘Most Disruptive Forum’  “They saw it as a chance to not only ask questions but to
really protest,” said Cody, who served as moderator. “It was
by far the most disruptive forum I’ve ever attended.” Upton was
repeatedly heckled by individuals with a mannequin and signs
asking where the jobs are, though Cody and other people said
many protesters came from outside the district.  During the event, Upton declared that current Medicare and
Social Security beneficiaries shouldn’t face reductions in
benefits from the supercommittee and that the Social Security
retirement age shouldn’t be raised.  “It’s awfully hard to tell someone” who may be 82 years
old “that they’ve got to go back to work,” he said. “That’s
not gonna happen.” Residents in Upton’s district aged 65 and
older account for 12.5 percent of the population, on par with
the national average, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.  Cody said he wants Upton to use his skills and experience -
- his resume includes stints working for Ronald Reagan’s budget
director,  David Stockman  -- to be a deal-maker who brings
Democrats and Republicans together in a way that protects
vulnerable seniors.  ‘Time Will Tell’  “With all the pressures that are intervening, whether he’s
going to be that statesmanlike, only time will tell,” Cody
said.  It’s a role that Upton has embraced in the past. The
grandson of one of the founders of  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) , Upton often
broke with his party’s official positions and worked with
Democrats from 1995 to 2006, according to the Almanac of
American Politics.  He sought to limit the size of President  George W. Bush ’s
tax cuts, and backed increases in the minimum wage and
Democratic measures expanding the State Children’s Health
Insurance Program. He opposed Bush’s 2007 troop surge in  Iraq .
On the environment, Upton voted for amendments strengthening the
 Clean Air Act  and co-sponsored a bill to phase out incandescent
 light bulbs .  In 2008, the National Journal gave him a 41 percent liberal
rating and a 59 percent conservative score.  Energy and Commerce Panel  Since Republicans won control of the House in 2010, Upton’s
seniority on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, with
jurisdiction over Medicare and Medicaid law, put him in line for
the chairmanship. He won the leadership spot after overcoming
internal caucus critics who questioned his conservative bona
fides.  To allay their concerns, Upton hardened his position on
issues, especially the environment. He championed a bill to
strip the Environmental Protection Agency of its authority to
regulate  greenhouse gases  and supported the repeal of his own
initiative to phase out incandescent light bulbs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in  Washington  at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  