-- 
Yale University Accused of Negligence in Suit by Murdered Student’s Family

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-09-07T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/murdered-yale-student-s-family-sues-school-for-negligence-1-.html
Yale University  was accused of
negligence in a lawsuit by the family of Annie Le, a graduate
student murdered in a school laboratory five days before she was
to be married.  The wrongful-death lawsuit was filed yesterday in state
court in New Haven, Connecticut, according to court records. The
defendants are the university and Yale School of Medicine, which
ran the lab, according to a copy of the complaint provided by
Joseph Tacopina, a New York-based lawyer for the family. The
complaint couldn’t immediately be obtained from the court.  Raymond Clark, who worked in the lab and pleaded guilty to
murdering Annie Le, was sentenced to 44 years in prison in June.
Clark, 26, admitted strangling Le, 24, a pharmacology student,
days before her wedding date of Sept. 13, 2009. He cleaned mouse
cages in the lab building where her body was found.  “Yale knew or should have known that Clark posed a
potential threat to the safety of Ms. Le, particularly given
that Clark has previously demonstrated aggressive behavior and a
violent propensity towards women,” Tacopina said in an e-mailed
statement.  Kianti Roman, a spokeswoman for Yale, said in an e-mailed
statement the university had no information indicating Clark was
capable of committing the murder and that no “reasonable”
security measures could have prevented it. The university will
defend against the suit “as appropriate,” according to the
statement.  Research Lab  Le’s body was discovered hidden behind a wall in the
basement of the Yale School of Medicine research lab at
10 Amistad St. in  New Haven  the day she was to be married. The
Office of Connecticut’s Chief Medical Examiner said Le died of
“traumatic asphyxiation due to neck compression.”  Le’s family said in the complaint the school was negligent
in hiring and retaining Clark for a position that gave him
unsupervised access to students and staff, for failing to
adequately monitor Clark’s activities in the lab building, and
for failing to provide a safe environment for Le.  Le, a Vietnamese-American studying for a doctorate, was
from Placerville,  California , according to a September 2009 Yale
University statement. She graduated from the University of
Rochester in  New York , where she met her fiancée, Jonathan
Widawsky, the university said.  “As a result of the negligence of Yale, Ms. Le suffered a
loss in her ability to enjoy all of her life’s activities,
including but not limited to her wedding and marriage,”
according to the complaint.  Clark pleaded guilty in March to murdering and attempting
to sexually assault Le. He agreed to the 44-year sentence in his
plea deal.  The lawsuit is Romaniello v. Yale University, and the
criminal case is State v. Clark, CR09-97102-T,  Connecticut 
Superior Court (New Haven).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  