-- 
Turkey Sells Less Debt Than Expected, Pushing Up Yields

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-09-06T14:59:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/turkey-sells-less-debt-than-expected-pushing-up-yields-1-.html
Turkey  sold a net 1.52 billion liras
($860 million) of 20-month benchmark bonds at an average yield
of 7.70 percent at an auction today, pushing yields in the
secondary market higher because traders said demand was less
than expected.  The Treasury in Ankara got 2.07 billion liras of bids for
the debt at the auction today. It also sold 1 billion liras of
eight-year bonds yielding 8.85 percent. Bids in that auction
were 1.04 billion liras, it said.  Yields on the benchmark bonds rose one basis point to 7.75
percent at the 5 p.m. close, reversing earlier falls, a Royal
Bank of Scotland index of the securities showed. The yield has
fallen 1.05 percentage points since the start of August after
the central bank unexpectedly cut  interest rates  on Aug. 4.  “Competitive bids were weak and the bid to cover ratio was
too high,” Burak Ahmet Ustay, assistant general manager at
WestLB AG, in Istanbul, said by telephone. An acceleration in
August inflation reported yesterday and the decline in bond
yields in recent weeks may have prompted foreign investors to
buy less debt, he said.  The ratio of debt sold at the auction of the benchmark debt
to bids made was 83 percent, Bloomberg data showed.  The Treasury also sold a net 1.93 billion liras of the two-
year debt and 941 million liras of the eight-year bonds in
earlier non-competitive sales to major banks and government
institutions.  Turkey has raised a total net 8.3 billion liras in three
auctions this week, completing its borrowing program for the
month, versus its plan to raise 8.5 billion liras from the debt
sales in September.  Inflation unexpectedly increased to 6.7 percent in August
from 6.3 percent the previous month, the statistics agency said
yesterday.  The central bank cut interest rates by 50 basis points to a
record low of 5.75 percent at an emergency meeting last month,
saying the crisis in  Europe  was threatening economic growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net  