-- 
Erdogan Steps Up Israel Spat With Talk of Gaza Visit

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-09-07T13:18:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/turkey-s-erdogan-reduces-ties-with-israel.html
(Corrects number of months in 15th paragraph in story
published Sept. 6.)  Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip
Erdogan  escalated a dispute with Israel by suggesting he may
soon visit the  Gaza Strip  and making his first public comments
on  Turkey ’s decision to reduce military and diplomatic ties.  “From tomorrow we will have downgraded our diplomatic ties
to second-secretary level,” Erdogan said today at a news
conference in Ankara. “At the same time, their diplomats in
Turkey have been downgraded and we are suspending all military
ties.” That includes defense-industry trade, an aide said.  Erdogan said he will decide whether to visit Gaza, the
seaside Palestinian territory ruled by the Islamic Hamas
movement, after he arrives in  Egypt  next week.  Turkey suspended military relations with Israel last week
and expelled  Israel ’s ambassador over Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu’s refusal to apologize for the deaths of
activists on a ship that sought to break an embargo last year
and take aid supplies to the Gaza Strip.  Israel says its soldiers were attacked by activists aboard
the Mavi Marmara and released video footage to support the
assertion. Passengers say Israeli troops fired first.  An Israeli official said the government has made numerous
attempts to find a formula to prevent the relationship with
Turkey from deteriorating further and will continue to try. The
official spoke anonymously, citing the diplomatic sensitivity of
the matter.  Naval Presence  Erdogan said Turkey will also step up its naval presence in
the eastern Mediterranean, the region where the Turkish-flagged
Mavi-Marmara was boarded.  The Turkish leader rejected a report released by the  United
Nations  on Sept. 2 that said the naval blockade of Gaza is legal
and that Israel is entitled to enforce it. In a 105-page
document, the UN also said Israel’s effort to stop the ship was
excessive. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon urged Israel and
Turkey to try to repair their relations.  “Because of its political aims in the region, Israel has
lost Turkey’s partnership,” Erdogan said, adding that if no
apology is received, “different sanctions” will follow.  He dismissed the UN report as having “no value
whatsoever” and called the Israeli assault on the boat “an act
of state terrorism.”  Statehood Push  A visit by Erdogan would highlight Israel’s continued
restrictions against Gaza, more than a year after it eased
limits on goods entering the territory under international
pressure. It would also coincide with Palestinian efforts to
obtain statehood recognition at the UN this month. Israel and
the U.S. oppose the step, saying it should only be taken after
an agreement is reached in Middle East peace negotiations.  Israel cited security reasons for stopping the import of
products including construction materials into Gaza. Hamas and
other militant organizations have fired thousands of rockets at
Israel over the past decade.  Israel staged a three-week military offensive against Gaza
at the end of 2008 that led to the killing of at least 1,100
Palestinians and 13 Israelis. Hamas is considered a terrorist
organization by Israel, the U.S. and the European Union.  Access to Gaza has been eased at the Egyptian border since
the overthrow of President  Hosni Mubarak .  Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  warned yesterday
that a further breakdown of Israel’s commercial ties with
Turkey, its biggest trading partner in the region, could be
costly. Trade between the two countries grew to $1.36 billion in
the first four months of 2011 from about $1 billion a year
earlier, according to the  Central Bureau of Statistics  in
 Jerusalem .  Some of the trade has involved the purchase of arms by
Turkey from  Elbit Systems Ltd. (ESLT)  and state-owned Israel Aerospace
Industries Ltd. Among other companies that do business in Turkey
are Bank Hapoalim Ltd., Israel’s second-biggest bank by assets,
and  Oil Refineries Ltd. (ORL) , its biggest refiner.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  