-- 
Hurricane Katia Weakens to Category 3, Travels in Northwest Direction

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-09-06T09:50:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/hurricane-katia-strengthens-to-category-4-travels-in-northwest-direction.html
Hurricane Katia weakened to a
Category 3 storm as it churned over open Atlantic waters on a
path expected to present no threat to U.S. land later this week,
the National Hurricane Center said.  Katia, about 400 miles (645 kilometers) south of  Bermuda ,
has maximum sustained winds of 125 miles per hour, according to
the latest NHC  advisory . The system is traveling northwest at 10
mph, then is expected to veer eastward away from the Mid-
Atlantic states in about three days, the NHC said today.  The hurricane is forecast to cross between Bermuda and the
Eastern seaboard, with meteorologists warning of dangerous surf
and rip currents developing. Katia is a “major” hurricane on
the five-step Saffir Simpson scale with winds above 111 mph, the
NHC said, down from Category 4 status earlier today.  Parts of the eastern U.S. are still recovering from
 Hurricane Irene , which made landfall on Aug. 27, leaving 45
people dead from  North Carolina  to Maine and cutting power to
6.69 million homes and businesses. The Atlantic hurricane season
runs from June through November.  Tropical Storm Lee weakened to a depression yesterday after
making landfall and soaking  Louisiana  and much of the Gulf
Coast. Flooding is expected to move into the Tennessee Valley,
the Appalachian mountains and  New England .  Lee was near Birmingham,  Alabama , with remnants of the
storm moving east-northeast at 12 mph, the NHC said late last
night.  Rains, Floods  “Heavy rains will continue to expand northeastward into
the Tennessee Valley and southern Appalachian Mountains through
Tuesday,” the center said. “These rains may cause life-
threatening flash floods and mudslides.”  About 60 percent of Gulf of Mexico oil production and 44
percent of gas output at one point was shut by Lee, the Bureau
of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement said.
That equates to about 843,223 barrels of oil a day and 2.3
billion cubic feet of gas daily, the bureau said on its  website .  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  said yesterday it began returning
some workers to its facilities in the western Gulf. The company
evacuated 858 workers ahead of the storm.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the largest U.S. oil company, is
returning staff to some offshore platforms and has begun to
restore production, spokesman David Eglinton said.  Production resumed at  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) ’s Nansen,
Boomvang and Gunnison platforms, the operator said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  