-- 
Hurricane Irene Cost Taxpayers $1.5 Billion, White House Says

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-09-06T13:42:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/hurricane-irene-cost-taxpayers-1-5-billion-white-house-says.html
Hurricane Irene will cost taxpayers
about $1.5 billion in federal disaster relief, the White House
said, creating new budget headaches for Congress and adding to
the deficit for fiscal year 2012, which begins Oct. 1.  White House budget director Jack Lew said in a  blog  posting
yesterday that the $1.5 billion is on top of the estimated $5.2
billion in other needs to cover earlier disasters, including
flooding in  Tennessee  and tornadoes in  Missouri and Alabama.  PresidentBarack Obama, visiting areas hit by Hurricane
Irene, told residents of northern  New Jersey  on Sept. 4 that the
federal government would provide “all the resources” necessary
to help them recover.  “I want to make very clear that we are going to meet our
federal obligations,” Obama said in flood-ravaged Paterson, New
Jersey, with the state’s governor, RepublicanChris Christie, at
his side.  Irene made landfall on Aug. 27 in  North Carolina  and swept
up the East Coast and into New England. The storm and related
flooding killed dozens of people, damaged roads and buildings
and cut power to millions.  Obama has signed emergency declarations for  Pennsylvania ,
 Connecticut , Delaware, Massachusetts, Maryland,  New Hampshire ,
New Jersey,  New York , North Carolina,  Rhode Island , Vermont,
Virginia and the District of Columbia.  Congressional Flexibility  In a Sept. 1 letter to the Democratic and Republican
leaders of the U.S. Senate and House Appropriations and Budget
committees, Lew said that Congress has flexibility to deal with
disaster spending under the debt-ceiling measure enacted last
month. He said lawmakers allowed for discretionary spending to
be raised by “no more than the average funding” of disaster
relief over the last decade, and that an increase didn’t require
lawmakers to offset spending elsewhere.  The average funding of disasters over the last 10 years, he
said, was $11.5 billion, discarding the highest and lowest
years.  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican,
said on Aug. 31 that budget cuts should help cover the cost of
cleaning up after  Hurricane Irene  and other disasters.  Both Republicans and Democrats have said that more funding
is needed to help communities rebuild. The Federal Emergency
Management Agency, its accounts almost drained, redirected money
in a $792 million disaster fund to states hit by Irene.  A Senate Appropriations subcommittee is scheduled to meet
today to consider legislation that includes disaster aid.  Work With Congress  Lew said the Obama administration will work with lawmakers
“to fund both the $5.2 billion needed for non-Hurricane Irene
known disaster needs and the roughly $1.5 billion that we now
estimate is needed for Irene through FY 2012.”  “We are one country,” Lew wrote in the blog post. “A
disaster in one corner is felt by Americans all across our land.
That is why when it comes to taking care of our neighbors in
need, we will not let politics get in the way and will do what
is right to help them recover and rebuild.”  According to the Office of Management and Budget’s Sept. 1
report to lawmakers, Congress has appropriated $131 billion for
 disaster relief  in the last decade. The highest annual spending
was $37.2 billion in the 2005 fiscal year, when Hurricane
Katrina struck New Orleans. The lowest was $1.9 billion in 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  