-- 
Simpson Defeats Chez Reavie in Playoff at Deutsche Bank Golf Championship

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/webb-simpson-beats-chez-reavie-in-playoff-at-deutsche-bank-championship.html
Webb Simpson  won the U.S. PGA Tour’s
Deutsche Bank Championship with a closing run of three straight
birdies, including a nine-footer on the second hole of a playoff
with Chez Reavie.  Simpson, 26, claimed the second of the tour’s four playoff
events for the FedEx Cup after Reavie missed a 23-foot birdie
attempt. His winning putt came after he made birdies of 27 and
16 feet the previous two holes to stay in contention.  Simpson got his first PGA Tour victory Aug. 21 at the
Wyndham Championship in Greensboro,  North Carolina , the last
regular-season tournament before the playoffs.  “I told somebody that I feel like the next time I was in
contention it’ll be a lot easier than Greensboro and it wasn’t
that way at all,” Simpson said at a news conference. “The
shots and the putts were just as hard. I think it helped calm me
down a little, but it was like I had never won a  golf tournament 
before.”  Simpson finished the fourth round with a 27-foot birdie
putt to get to 15-under par and the tournament went to a playoff
for the first time when Reavie missed an 11-foot par putt at the
par-5 18th hole.  Until that point, Reavie had been the only player in the
field without a bogey in the final round and it came after his
third shot from 115 yards flew over the green. Simpson said
afterwards he thought he had a 1 percent chance of getting to a
playoff with Reavie holding a one-shot lead and a wedge for his
approach.  Playoff Birdies  Simpson had to sink a 16-foot birdie putt at the first
extra hole, the 18th, where Reavie had a matching three-footer.
The players moved to the 17th hole, where Simpson again took one
putt to claim the $1.44 million winner’s check.  Simpson and the other top 69 players in the FedEx Cup
rankings now advance to the BMW Championship, which begins Sept.
15 in Lemont,  Illinois . The top 30 move on from there to the
season-ending Tour Championship in Atlanta, where the FedEx Cup
winner receives a $10 million bonus.  Simpson said he’ll return home to spend time with his wife
and infant son, and then travel to Pinehurst, North Carolina,
for a golf weekend with his friends before the next playoff
event at Cog Hill Golf and Country Club.  Simpson moved atop the FedEx Cup rankings with his win,
passing  Dustin Johnson , who won the first playoff event, the
Barclays.  Matt Kuchar  is third, followed by  Luke Donald  and
Brandt Snedeker. Reavie is ninth.  ‘Fickle Game’  “I do feel comfortable near the top and I want to expect
that I can play with the guys who are the best players in the
world,” Simpson said. “Right now, things are going well for
me, but I know this is a fickle game. All I really try to do is
keep improving.”  Simpson shot a 6-under-par 65 during the final round
yesterday, when seven players had at least a share of the lead.
There were 23 players at the start of the day within four
strokes of 54-hole leader Bubba Watson, including Simpson, who
was two shots back.  Snedeker, Australian Jason Day and Donald, the No. 1 player
in the Official World Golf Ranking, tied for third at 13-under
par. Defending FedEx Cup champion Jim Furyk finished at 12
under, one shot better than Bo Van Pelt.  Phil Mickelson  shot a final-round 69 to tie for 10th place
at 9-under par. Watson stumbled to a 3-over 74 in the final
round to tie for 16th place.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  