-- 
Wells Fargo, Schneider Go From First to the Worst on Franc Calls After Cap

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-09-07T13:58:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/wells-fargo-schneider-go-from-first-to-worst.html
Wells Fargo & Co . and Schneider
Foreign Exchange, two of the most-accurate foreign-exchange
forecasters, are scrapping calls for a stronger franc after
Switzerland’s central bank imposed a ceiling on its currency.  Wells Fargo, the second-most-bullish forecaster on the
franc, revised its 1.06 per euro prediction to 1.20, the level
targeted by the  Swiss National Bank .  Stephen Gallo , head of
market analysis at Schneider Foreign Exchange, expected the
franc to strengthen to 1.05 per euro by the fourth quarter, the
strongest call of 24 strategists tracked by Bloomberg. Gallo,
the most-accurate forecaster in the six quarters ended June 30
as measured by Bloomberg News, revised his estimate to 1.18
today.  The changes suggest that the foreign-exchange market
expects that SNB President Philipp Hildebrand will succeed in
his effort to stem the currency’s advance. His previous efforts
included 15 months of currency sales that contributed to the
SNB’s record $21 billion loss last year, while the franc
outperformed 16 major peers since  Europe ’s debt crisis began in
late 2009.  “If you had asked me last week if they would announce the
peg I would have said, no they won’t, so here we are,” said
Gallo, by telephone from London yesterday. “Something that I’m
looking at now is the Norwegian krone. Now that the SNB has
essentially cut off safe-haven flows to one degree or another
it’s possible the Norwegians will be the next central bank
intervening to stop their currency strengthening.”  Franc Falls  The franc fell at least 8 percent against all 16 of its
most-traded counterparts yesterday as the SNB is “aiming for a
substantial and sustained weakening of the franc,” the Zurich-
based central bank said in an e-mailed  statement  yesterday.
“With immediate effect, it will no longer tolerate a euro-franc
 exchange rate  below the minimum rate of 1.20 francs” and “is
prepared to buy foreign currency in unlimited quantities.”  Schneider now sees the franc trading at 1.21 versus the
euro in the first quarter of 2012 and at 1.20 by the second
quarter, according to a note to clients.  The premium for three-month options to sell the euro
against the Swiss currency versus those allowing for purchases,
a measure of the demand for protection against a higher franc,
tumbled to 2.0025 percentage points from 4.9735 percentage
points Sept. 5. Excluding the all-time highs reached last month
-- the measure reached 5.36 percentage points on Aug. 9 -- the
premium was the most since Bloomberg began collecting the data
in 2003.  Switzerland ’s currency is the best performer this year
among a basket of 10-developed market currencies, appreciating
4.6 percent, Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes
show.  ‘Intervention Will Succeed’  “We’re changing the whole profile with the idea that we
believe they mean it,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency
strategist in New York at Wells Fargo, the third-most-accurate
forecaster. “Intervention will succeed in keeping euro-Swiss
above 1.20. On the other hand, we don’t think that there is much
scope for weakness in the Swiss franc beyond that level because
of market pressure.”  Wells Fargo, based in  San Francisco , revised its three- and
six-month forecast to 1.20. It expects the franc to weaken to
1.22 during the next nine months.  The franc fell as much as 9.9 percent to 1.21911 versus the
euro, from 1.10971, the biggest intraday loss on record on Sept
6. It traded at 1.20441 at 8:05 a.m. in New York. Switzerland’s
currency weakened as much as 9.6 percent to 86.27 centimes per
dollar yesterday, before trading at 85.80.  Societe Generale SA, the second-most-accurate forecaster,
expected the franc to strengthen to 1.10 versus the euro, which
tied for the eighth-most-bullish forecast before the central-
bank move. Lloyds Banking Group Plc had the third-strongest
prediction for the franc, forecasting it to appreciate to 1.07
in the fourth quarter.  “We’re revising our forecast tomorrow, as near-term, we’re
going to have to say more likely than not they are going to be
able to hold on to this initiative,” said Jeavon Lolay, head of
global research in  London  at Lloyds yesterday. “The elephant in
the room is that if conditions deteriorate in the euro zone, I
don’t think it’s likely they could sustain this sort of level.”  The franc had surged to records against the euro and the
dollar, hurting exports and eroding economic growth. While the
Swiss central bank last month boosted liquidity to the money
market and lowered borrowing costs to zero, investor concern
that governments may struggle to contain Europe’s worsening debt
crisis has continued to push the currency higher.  Investors see the franc as a refuge because the nation has
a lower ratio of debt to gross domestic product than the euro
area as a whole and expects budget surpluses through 2013.  “1.20 could be pushing it,” Lolay said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  