-- 
Whitbread Sales Growth Rises on Premier Inn

-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 
2011-09-06T08:22:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/whitbread-sales-growth-accelerates-on-premier-inn-costa-coffee.html
Whitbread Plc (WTB) , the U.K.’s largest
hotel and restaurant operator, reported faster sales growth as
its Premier Inn lodging chain gained business from independent
competitors and Costa coffee shops sold more summer drinks.  The shares surged the most in two years after the
Dunstable, England-based company said revenue at outlets open at
least a year rose 4.8 percent in the 11 weeks to Aug. 18, led by
growth of 7.1 percent at Premier Inn and 9.7 percent at Costa
coffee. That compared with the prior quarter’s 1.7 percent
growth.  Premier Inn controls about 40 percent of the U.K. budget
lodging market and is winning share from independent hoteliers,
who have about 30 percent of the market, Chief Executive Officer
Andy Harrison said on a conference call. Whitbread is also
counting on growth at Costa Coffee as sales decline at its
restaurants, which include the Beefeater and Brewers Fayre
brands.  “The U.K. consumer outlook may be stuttering, but there is
no evidence of the malaise affecting Whitbread,” Nigel Parson,
an analyst at Evolution Securities in  London , said in a note
today. He has a “buy” recommendation on the shares.  Whitbread gained as much as 119 pence, or 8.2 percent, to
1,576 pence in London trading, the steepest advance since Sept.
2009. The stock traded at 1,575 pence as of 9:15 a.m.  Premier Inn  Premier Inn’s sales were strong across the U.K. and
particularly in London, Harrison said. The chain, which offers
rooms from as little as 29 pounds ($47) a night, is winning
customers because of its “trusted offer” and a “powerful
sales and marketing system” through its website, he said.  Whitbread plans to increase Premier Inn’s U.K. room numbers
by almost 50 percent to at least 65,000 in the five years
through 2016. It also aims to add as many as 100 restaurants and
to double the size of Costa to 3,500 stores worldwide.  Business at Costa was boosted in the quarter by strong
sales of its Ice Cold Costa drink, Harrison said. A spinoff of
Costa is “not on the agenda,” the CEO said on the call.  Like-for-like sales at the restaurant unit fell 1.6 percent
in the quarter amid “challenging” conditions, Whitbread said.  “We can see no change in the consumer economy,” Harrison
said. “It remains pretty flat.”  The CEO said he would caution against drawing conclusions
from one quarter’s sales, with figures for the first 24 weeks of
the fiscal year likely to be a more useful guide. These showed a
3.2 percent increase in group like-for-like sales, including
gains of 5 percent at Premier Inn and 6.6 percent at Costa.  Separately, Whitbread said today that it sold 156 million
pounds of debt to extend its maturity profile.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  