-- 
WHO Should Buy Diabetes Drugs in Bulk for Poor Nations, Novo Nordisk Says

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-09-06T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/who-should-buy-diabetes-drugs-in-bulk-for-poor-novo-ceo-says.html
The  World Health Organization  should
buy low-cost diabetes treatments in bulk on behalf of the
poorest countries to ensure they get the lowest price, the head
of the world’s largest insulin maker said.  Most low- and middle-income countries pay too much for the
medicines because they order relatively small amounts and few
manufacturers bid for the tenders, Lars Rebien Soerensen, chief
executive officer of Novo Nordisk A/S, said in an interview in
London yesterday.  Diabetes afflicts 346 million people worldwide, and more
than 80 percent of deaths from the disease occur in poorer
nations,  according  to the Geneva-based WHO, the  United Nations ’
health agency. The UN General Assembly will meet in  New York 
from Sept. 19 to 20 to plan a response to the impact of diabetes
and other non-communicable diseases such as cancer and heart
disease.  “If the WHO, if the global community, is concerned about
the poorest countries’ access to insulin, why don’t they buy it
on behalf of the poorest countries?” Soerensen said. “We’d be
tickled pink.”  Soerensen said he’s “not very optimistic” about the
report likely to come out of the conference because it will
recommend ambitious targets that will be difficult to meet.
Governments around the world are reducing health spending as the
effects of the economic crisis linger.  “Who’s going to stand in the wings with a lot of funds to
live up to some ambitious targets?” he said. “They’re going to
be difficult to implement because they’re basically a matter of
building health-care capacity, and you know how long that takes,
and how difficult it is to sell to the public.”  Degludec  Novo, based in Bagsvaerd,  Denmark , sells older, cheaper
versions of insulin in developing nations. For richer countries
it’s developing more advanced versions of the hormone such as
the experimental treatment degludec. The company plans to file
for regulatory approval of that treatment in the U.S. by the end
of this year, and expects approval by the end of 2012, Soerensen
said.  About seven in 10 diabetes patients in developed countries
now get Sanofi’s Lantus to control their blood sugar levels, and
three get Novo’s older product Levemir, Soerensen said. He’s
betting degludec will reverse that ratio because it can be taken
at any time of day, whereas Lantus, a so-called basal insulin,
must be injected at the same time every day.  “Degludec is the key fundamental question for the
company,” Soerensen said. “We will start to become competitive
in the basal segment that has been gaining globally because of
the success of Sanofi.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in  London  at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  