-- 
Assange Says Guardian Caused WikiLeaks to Release Cables

-- B y   C l a u d i a   R a c h   a n d   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-09-06T13:07:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/wikileaks-s-assange-says-guardian-triggered-release-of-diplomatic-cables.html
Julian Assange, the founder of
WikiLeaks, said its latest release of U.S. diplomatic cables was
triggered by the U.K. newspaper the Guardian.  The company announced the release of un-redacted U.S.
diplomatic cables on its  Facebook  and  Twitter  accounts in
August. Assange said WikiLeaks published the documents to make
them generally available after a Guardian reporter published the
 password  to the encrypted files comprised of the cables.  “We could have done nothing differently,” Assange said at
a media conference at the IFA consumer electronics fair in
Berlin. He was speaking via satellite uplink. The publication of
the password was “the decision of the Guardian alone. It didn’t
check with us,” Assange said.  The Guardian “utterly rejects any suggestion that it is
responsible for the release of the unedited cables,”
spokeswoman Hayley Dunlop said, reiterating a statement of Sept.
1. “The Guardian was told that the file to which it was given
access in July 2010 would only be on a secure server for a few
hours and then taken off. It appears that two versions of the
file were subsequently posted” using the same password.  WikiLeaks is no longer working with the Guardian and the
New York Times, Assange said, adding that “all other media
partners are still onboard.”  Assange was arrested in London in December where he is
fighting extradition to Sweden over alleged rape charges.
Lawyers for Assange have argued that the rape allegations he
faces in Sweden wouldn’t be considered a crime in the U.K.  Visa Europe Ltd., MasterCard Inc., American Express Co. and
 eBay Inc (EBAY) .s PayPal have halted payments to the site, according to
WikiLeaks’  website .  Assange said the today that the boycott shows the payment
companies’ ties to the U.S. government and that a Visa credit
card is “an instrument of Washington policy in your pocket.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Claudia Rach in Berlin at 
 crach1@bloomberg.net ;
Ragnhild Kjetland in Berlin at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  