-- 
World Bank to Set Up Knowledge and Financial Hub in Singapore

-- B y   L a r s   K l e m m i n g
-- 
2011-09-06T04:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/world-bank-to-set-up-knowledge-and-financial-hub-in-singapore.html
The  World Bank  Group will make
Singapore a hub for knowledge and financial activities and aims
to employ 70 in the city-state within three years.  The hub will be the first combined World Bank Group office
outside  Washington , offering products and services from across
its units, World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said in a speech
prepared for delivery in Singapore today. Bert Hofman, the
bank’s chief economist for the East Asia Region, will be the
office director.  “Our chief financial officer, treasury, accounting, and
corporate finance and risk management departments and our
information communications technology office will also station
staff here in Singapore,” Zoellick said in the speech for a
signing ceremony today.  The World Bank started collaborating with  Singapore  on a
hub to help countries address the challenges of urbanization two
years ago, followed by the opening last year of an
Infrastructure Finance Center of Excellence in Singapore,
Zoellick said. Those will now be joined by units such as
International Finance Corp., the bank’s private investment arm,
and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency, its private
sector guarantee arm.  International Finance Corp.’s new asset management company
and Government of Singapore Investment Corp. are already
cooperating on a commercially run global infrastructure fund,
Zoellick said. The private investment arm will also explore ways
of working with Singapore-based commercial banks and companies
to make debt and equity investments in emerging markets
available to global investors, he said.  The Singapore hub will also foster training and capacity
building through the World Bank Institute, which already offers
an urban leadership training program together with the  Lee Kuan
Yew School of Public Policy .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  