-- 
Yahoo Shares Surge After Chairman Ends Bartz’s Tenure With Telephone Call

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n ,   I a n   K i n g   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-09-08T01:11:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/yahoo-s-carol-bartz-is-said-to-be-stepping-down-as-chief-executive-officer.html
Yahoo! Inc. surged after firing
Chief Executive Officer Carol Bartz, whose reign was marked by
falling sales, lost share to rivals and a dispute with Asian
partners that stunted growth in the world’s largest Web market.  Bartz said in a memo to staff yesterday that she was
terminated by Chairman Roy Bostock by telephone. The Sunnyvale,
California-based company announced a strategic review aimed at
helping revive growth at the most-visited U.S. Web portal, and
said Chief Financial Officer Tim Morse will be interim CEO. The
shares rose 5.4 percent.  Under Bartz, 63, who took over as CEO in January 2009,
Yahoo has frustrated investors and failed to keep Google Inc.
and Facebook Inc. from siphoning off Internet users and
advertising revenue. The management change and strategy overhaul
may result in a sale of the company, said Jordan Rohan, an
analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in New York.  “After all of the drama of the Bartz administration, we
think the Yahoo! board of directors may be more receptive to a
deal now than it has been in the past,” Rohan said in a note to
clients today. The best-case scenario for Yahoo would be a sale
to private equity, which could be done at a price of about $18
to $20 a share.  An outright sale to a media company such as  News Corp. (NWSA)  is
also possible, said Youssef Squali, an analyst at Jefferies &
Co. in New York, in a research report today.  Sale Before New CEO  “It is more likely that the board reaches an agreement to
sell the company or parts of the company before a new CEO is
found,” Squali said.  Since Bartz took the reins from co-founder Jerry Yang,
Yahoo’s stock gained 6.7 percent in U.S. trading, compared with
a 34 percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 index
through yesterday. Today, the stock rose 70 cents to $13.61 on
the Nasdaq Stock Market.  “I am very sad to tell you that I’ve just been fired over
the phone by Yahoo’s chairman of the board,” Bartz said in a
memo sent to staff. “It has been my pleasure to work with all
of you and I wish you only the best going forward.” Bostock,
who helped recruit Bartz, declined to comment.  As CEO, Bartz slashed costs with job cuts and a search
partnership with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Still, Yahoo failed to make
much headway in the U.S. advertising and search markets. Bartz
also rankled investors with her handling of assets in Asia,
including a stake in Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and Yahoo Japan
Corp. that may be worth more than Yahoo’s market value.  The management change and strategic review may pave the way
for Yahoo to sell the stake back to Alibaba -- a transaction
favored by Alibaba and opposed by Bartz.  ‘Deal Maker’  “You could bring in someone who’s a deal maker, who can
potentially make the peace with Alibaba and unlock a lot of
value for shareholders that way,” Ross Sandler, an analyst at
RBC Capital Markets, said.  Analysts were disappointed with Bartz’s resolution of a
four-month dispute over how to compensate investors after
Alibaba transferred ownership of its online payments business to
a company controlled by Alibaba Chairman Jack Ma.  The move diminished the value of the holding and added to
pressure on Bartz, said Laura Martin, an analyst at Needham &
Co.  “Jack Ma did not help her,” said Martin, who is based in
Pasadena, California. Moving Alipay took away “a piece of the
value” of Yahoo’s Asian assets and “was probably the nail in
the coffin,” she said.  Private Equity  A new structure involving investment from private equity
and Microsoft,  AOL Inc. (AOL)  or Alibaba could happen as part of the
strategic changes at Yahoo, Squali said.  Yahoo’s share of the U.S. online ad market is projected to
drop to 9.7 percent next year from 16 percent in 2009, according
to New York-based research firm EMarketer Inc. Google’s may
increase to 45 percent, while Facebook may more than triple its
portion to 7.8 percent,  EMarketer  predicts.  Yahoo reported second-quarter revenue in July that fell
short of estimates as Bartz’s overhaul of the U.S. sales force
made it harder to close deals and slowed growth in display
advertising.  “Some of the issues have been company-specific problems
that have been under her watch,” said Sandler at RBC Capital
Markets. “The slowdown in their display business is simply from
her inability to keep the display team together over the last 18
months,” said Sandler, who rates Yahoo “outperform” and
doesn’t own the stock.  Bartz was recruited to revive growth and combat the Google
threat after Yahoo rebuffed a $47.5 billion takeover attempt by
Microsoft in 2008.  Wisconsin Farm  Raised by her grandmother on a Wisconsin farm, Bartz cut
her management teeth as CEO of San Rafael, California-based
Autodesk Inc. for 14 years. There, she was credited with turning
around the design software maker’s sagging performance and
gained allies including Cisco Systems Inc. CEO John Chambers, on
whose board she sits. She also served as an executive at Sun
Microsystems Inc., Digital Equipment Corp. and 3M Co.  Bartz also became known for tough, frank talk and
occasional use of obscenities during interviews with critics and
the media.  Executives who left under Bartz include Hilary Schneider,
the former executive vice president in charge of the Americas
region, senior vice presidents David Ko and Joanne Bradford, and
vice president Jimmy Pitaro.  “There could be a groundswell of people within Yahoo that
are totally dissatisfied,” said Allen Weiner, research vice at
Gartner Inc. in Austin, Texas. “One way of stopping the
bleeding, the exodus of major people, is to find that she is the
root of the problem.”  ‘Without Cause’  Bartz’s termination is considered “without cause,” and
the company plans to fulfill the severance terms of her
contract, according to a person familiar with the board, who
asked not to be identified because the agreement was
confidential. Yahoo isn’t paying Bartz any additional
compensation after ending her contract early, the person said.  Yahoo will hire a search firm to help find a permanent CEO.
The company hasn’t hired bankers or other outside advisers to
explore a potential sale of its assets, according to the person
close to its board.  The technology website AllThingsD initially reported
Bartz’s ouster.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  