-- 
Yields at 2009 Lows as Europe to Rein in Economic Growth: Australia Credit

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-09-07T03:18:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/yields-drop-as-europe-to-damp-slowest-growth-in-20-years-australia-credit.html
Australian benchmark government bond
yields were 11 basis points from the lowest since 2009 on
concern contagion from  Europe ’s debt crisis will undermine the
national economy’s recovery.  The 10-year note’s yield rose to 4.32 percent as of 12:38
p.m. in Sydney, after a government report showed second-quarter
gross domestic product grew faster than economists estimated.
The rate was 4.21 percent yesterday, the lowest closing level
since March 20, 2009. Five-year government debt yielded 3.90
percent, 10 basis points less than one-year securities and near
yesterday’s biggest discount since September 2008.  In times of increasing “anxiety” within global financial
markets, “it is good to be in a position to be able to maintain
steady settings,” RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  said today in
Perth. Australia’s growth outlook may be weaker than previously
estimated though price pressures may still demand attention, he
said. Swaps traders expect the RBA to make the steepest cuts to
key rates among the Group of 10 currencies, according to Credit
Suisse Group AG indexes.  “The market disagrees completely with the RBA in terms of
the likely outlook for growth and inflation and  interest
rates ,” said Sally Auld, a JPMorgan Chase & Co. interest-rate
strategist in Sydney, in an interview yesterday. Diminished
prospects for global growth “imply that there’s no way
Australia is going to be fine through all of this,” she said.  Government securities  from one month to 12 years in
maturity have yielded less than the central bank’s target for
the past 21 days, the longest stretch at that relative level
since November 2008.  RBA On Hold  Stevens today signaled a willingness to keep interest rates
on hold while consumers retrench and global financial markets
create instability for the “foreseeable future.”  Interbank cash-rate futures show traders pared bets on a
cut in the benchmark in October, with the implied yield rising
to 4.59 percent from 4.48 percent yesterday.  Investors concerned Europe’s debt crisis will derail the
global recovery are betting the RBA will cut borrowing costs by
115 basis points over 12 months, the Credit Suisse gauges show.
 Sweden ’s central bank is expected to lower rates by 44 basis
points, the second-biggest forecast cuts.  Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann 
said on Sept. 5 that conditions in the stock and bond markets
are reminiscent of the financial crisis of late 2008.  “The ‘new normal’ is characterized by volatility and
uncertainty -- not only in respect to market developments, but
also in consideration of the future of the financial branch,”
Ackermann said at a conference in  Frankfurt . “All this reminds
one of the fall of 2008.”  Governor Stevens slashed the cash rate from 7.25 percent to
3 percent between September 2008 and April 2009 to counter a
credit freeze that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  Best Returns  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG predicted the
RBA will lower rates this year after official data on Aug. 11
showed the  unemployment rate  rose in July for the first time
since October 2010.  Australian sovereign debt delivered a 10.2 percent return
this year, the best among 21 developed nations tracked by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analyst
Societies.  Ten-year yields slid for an eighth month in August, falling
43 basis points to 4.37 percent on Aug. 31, posting the longest
stretch of declines since 1991. The yield rose 11 basis points
to 4.32 percent as of 12:48 p.m. in Sydney, which is 230 basis
points, or 2.30 percentage points, more than on similar-dated
U.S. Treasuries.  Australian Growth  Benchmark bond yields climbed by the most in two weeks
today after Australia’s second-quarter gross domestic product
advanced 1.2 percent from the previous three months, when it
fell a revised 0.9 percent, a Bureau of Statistics report today
showed. That compared with the median of 25 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey for a 1 percent gain. GDP shrank in the
first quarter after floods inundated mines and farmland in the
nation’s northeast, hurting exports.  “It’s the global piece that the market is looking at as
opposed to the domestic front,” said Nick Maroutsos, a Sydney-
based  money manager  and co-founder at Kapstream Capital, which
oversees A$4.1 billion ($4.3 billion). “The market has
certainly priced in a lot of rate cuts, but we think that while
the data in  Australia  has swung back to the middle of the
pendulum, it’s still relatively positive.”  Stevens’s stance that he doesn’t need to lower rates is
underpinned by a projected A$225 million a day in mining
investment and record prices for commodities exported by the
only developed economy to avoid 2009’s global recession.  Mining Boom  Australian companies have been looking past reports of
weaker U.S. and European growth, spending more on plant and
equipment to meet surging demand from emerging markets in  Asia 
that were the main drivers of the world’s economic recovery over
the past two years.  Mining investment is projected at A$82.1 billion in the 12
months to June 30, 45 percent higher than in the 2010-2011
fiscal year, a government report showed last week. Firms
including Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s No. 1
mining company, are expanding output to meet demand from China
and  India .  Investment Pipeline  Australia’s investment pipeline helped boost the local
dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded currency, to $1.1081 on
July 27, the strongest since it was freely floated in 1983. The
so-called Aussie rose 0.9 percent to $1.0575 today.  Bond investors are estimating Australian consumer prices
will rise at an annual 2.57 percent pace over the coming five
years, down from this year’s high of 3.14 percent on May 6,
according to the gap between indexed government debt and bonds
that aren’t linked to inflation. That’s still the highest among
eight developed markets tracked by Bloomberg data.  “While growth seems to be turning out weaker than expected
at the end of last year, underlying inflation seems to be
turning out higher,” Stevens said today. “A key question is
whether that is just the vagaries of statistical noise and lags,
or whether it is telling us that the combinations of growth and
inflation available to us in the short term are less attractive
than they seemed a few years ago.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  