-- 
Par Pharmaceutical Engaged in Illegal Drug-Switching Scheme, U.S. Says

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-09-06T23:41:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/mylan-units-implicated-in-u-s-lawuit-against-par-alleging-drug-switching.html
Par Pharmaceutical Cos., a maker and
distributor of generic drugs, engaged in an illegal drug-
switching scheme to increase sales, the U.S. said in a lawsuit
in which two Mylan Inc. units are also accused by a
whistleblower of wrongdoing.  The U.S. joined a lawsuit against Par filed in 2006 by a
whistleblower who previously settled similar claims against
drugstore chains CVS Caremark Corp. and Walgreen’s. The U.S.
complaint, filed in March 2009, was unsealed today in  Chicago 
federal court. The suit has been joined by 20 states and the
 District of Columbia .  The lawsuit, filed under the federal  False Claims Act ,
claims that Woodcliff, New Jersey-based Par conspired with its
pharmacy customers to switch prescriptions of generic Zantac
from tablets to higher-priced capsules to skirt Medicaid price
limits. The whistleblower also accused Alphapharm Pty Ltd. and
Genpharm ULC, units of Mylan, for which Par held U.S. marketing
rights, of participating in the alleged scheme. The U.S. didn’t
join the suit against the Mylan units.  “To increase sales, defendants marketed their higher-
priced drugs to pharmacies by falsely portraying their drugs as
equivalent to popular, lower-priced generics,” the U.S. said.
This allowed the drugstores to get higher reimbursements from
Medicaid programs and “evade the government’s price limits,”
according to the complaint.  The U.S. is seeking triple damages and fines for each false
claim filed.  Allison Wey, Par’s vice president for  investor relations ,
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  Before Acquisitions  The complaint “relates to alleged matters that occurred
prior to Mylan’s acquisition of Merck KGaA’s generics business,
which included Alphapharm and Genpharm,”  Nina Devlin , a Mylan
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “We note that the federal
government has looked at and declined to intervene in the case
against Alphapharm and Genpharm.”  The company believes the whistleblower’s claims are
“meritless,” she said. “Regardless, we believe that we would
be entitled to indemnification from a third party.”  Under the rules of the federal False Claims Act, a
whistleblower files a lawsuit under seal and it stays secret
until the government investigates the complaint and decides
whether to join the action.  Settlement Pressure  A decision by the U.S. to intervene in a whistleblower suit
puts pressure on the defendants to settle, said  Patrick Burns ,
of Taxpayers Against Fraud in  Washington . “Their chance of
losing at trial is higher than 95 percent. If they lose, they’ll
have to pay $5,500 to $11,000 per false claim, for every
prescription, every switch.”  The lawsuit was initially filed in 2006 against Par by
Bernard Lisitza, a pharmacist who has filed similar claims
against drugstores and drugmakers.  “My client noticed there was a pattern of switching
capsules for tablets, depending on which would be the more
profitable,” Michael Behn, Lisitza’s attorney, said today in an
interview.  “Alphapharm and Genpharm were added later” to the
complaint, Behn said. Lisitza will be pursing the claims against
the Mylan units on his own through the lawsuit, he said.  Par fell $1.47, or 5.2 percent, to $27.03 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Earlier today, the shares fell as
much as 10 percent.  The case is U.S. ex. rel Lisitza v. Par Pharmaceutical
Cos., 06-6131, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  