-- 
Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe Says Talks Over Elections Make Progress

-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 
2011-09-06T12:46:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/zimbabwe-s-president-robert-mugabe-says-talks-over-elections-make-progress.html
Zimbabwe ’s president,  Robert Mugabe ,
said talks with the Movement for Democratic Change party have
made progress in preparing for elections.  “Parties to the global political agreement have agreed to
milestones and timelines in preparation for the holding of
national elections,” he said at the opening of Parliament in
Harare, the capital, today.  Lawmakers should lead the push for reconciliation and
“national healing” in the southern African nation to ensure
against political violence before elections, Mugabe said.  The Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front, led by
the 87-year-old Mugabe, and the MDC formed a coalition
government in 2009 after a disputed vote. MDC leader and Prime
Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai  pulled out of a presidential run-off
vote in 2008, citing violence against his supporters. The
 Southern African Development Community , a regional group of 15
countries, wants a referendum on a new constitution before
another round of elections, indicating the vote may be held next
year.  Investments by companies in Zimbabwe are safe, Mugabe said,
urging them to comply with a law that compels foreign and white-
owned companies to sell 51 percent of their local assets to
black citizens of the country.  The government is working on setting up a state company to
lead mineral exploration, Mugabe said. It is also planning new
laws on diamond mining, he said.  Zimbabwe, which has the second-biggest reserves of platinum
and chrome after neighbor  South Africa , gave mining companies
until June to submit plans to sell stakes.  Impala Platinum
Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , the world’s second-largest producer of the metal,
may invest as much as $10 billion in Zimbabwe to expand
production if the government backs down on the demand, David Brown, its chief executive officer, said Aug. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Johannesburg at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  