-- 
Impala Fails to Meet Zimbabwe Ownership Laws, Minister Says

-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 
2011-09-07T17:13:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/zimbabwe-says-rio-mine-complies-with-law-impala-platinum-unit-fails.html
Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) ’s
Zimbabwean unit, known as Zimplats, has failed to meet new laws
on asset ownership and may have its mining license revoked,
according to Indigenization Minister  Saviour Kasukuwere .  “We will be dispatching a letter to the Ministry of Mines
very soon concerning Zimplats,” Kasukuwere said today in a
telephone interview. The company’s exploration projects in the
country include the Ngezi South and North ventures, Hartley
Platinum and the Selous complex.  Zimbabwe, with the world’s second-biggest reserves of
platinum and chrome after neighboring South Africa, has demanded
all foreign or white-owned companies submit plans to sell 51
percent stakes in local assets for approval. The law, which
could see non-compliant businesses lose operating rights, may
threaten a recovery from a 10-year recession that ended in 2009.  “We would like to let Zimplats continue mining in this
country, but if they continue to disregard laws of this country
we are left with no option but to proceed in terms of the law,”
Kasukuwere told reporters in Harare yesterday. The minister said
he’ll ask the ministry to start the process of revoking Impala’s
license, the state-controlled Herald newspaper reported today.  Investment Potential  The company is the biggest investor in  Zimbabwe ’s mining
industry and could invest as much as $10 billion more to expand
its output,  David Brown , chief executive officer of Impala, said
in an interview on Aug. 25.  Bob Gilmour , a spokesman for the Johannesburg-based
company, declined to comment when contacted today.  Investments by companies in Zimbabwe are safe, President
 Robert Mugabe  said at the opening of parliament yesterday,
urging compliance with the policy. The government is working on
setting up a state company to lead mineral exploration and plans
new laws on diamond mining, he said.  Among the 45 operations that have met the ownership demands
is Rio Tinto Group’s Murowa diamond mine. Toronto-based miners
 New Dawn Mining Corp. (ND)  and  Caledonia Mining Corp. (CAL) , which runs the
Blanket gold mine, have also had plans approved, Kasukuwere
said. Others are revising proposals, he said.  Anglo American Platinum Ltd., which started its Unki mine
in Zimbabwe late last year, is in talks with the Indigenization
Ministry, Kasukuwere said in the interview.  “They are cooperating with us,” he said. “The intention
is not to chase anyone away but to share the resource.”  Impala rose 4.1 percent to 175.99 rand at the 5 p.m. close
in Johannesburg, giving the company a market value of 111.2
billion rand ($15.6 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  