-- 
Zloty Has Record Gain Versus Franc as Swiss Set Currency Limit

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-09-06T15:49:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/zloty-has-record-gain-versus-franc-as-swiss-set-currency-limit.html
The zloty had the steepest gain
against the franc on record after the Swiss central bank imposed
a ceiling on the franc, helping to reduce payments for most
Polish mortgage holders.  The zloty surged 7.9 percent to 3.5247 per franc as of 5:20
p.m. in Warsaw. The appreciation is the most since at least
March 1998, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The zloty
eased 0.3 percent to 4.2339 per euro, its fourth day of
declines. The yield on notes maturing in April 2016 fell nine
basis points to 4.85 percent.  Polish homeowners who bought property with foreign-currency
loans had faced an increase in costs because of the franc’s
advance against the zloty, raising the potential for defaults.
The  Swiss National Bank  set a minimum franc exchange rate for
the first time in more than three decades and pledged to defend
the target with the “utmost determination.”  “The news has been read as positive,” BNP Paribas SA
economists in  London  wrote in a note to clients. “It will help
to ease some of the burden of debt repayments of franc-indebted
households.”  The total value of franc-denominated home loans in  Poland 
reached 162.2 billion zloty ($51.9 billion) at the end of July
and represented 54 percent of all mortgages outstanding,
according to the financial market regulator’s website.  Poland will benefit from the “excellent news” of the
franc ceiling, ING Groep NV said. The decision will “soon”
help the zloty strengthen to 4.15 per euro,  Mateusz Szczurek ,
chief economist for central and eastern  Europe  in Warsaw, wrote
in an e-mailed note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  