-- 
Zoellick Says World in ‘Dangerous’ Period as Europe Turmoil Adds to Risks

-- B y   H a s l i n d a   A m i n   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-09-06T06:19:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-06/zoellick-says-world-in-dangerous-period-as-europe-turmoil-adds-to-risks.html
World Bank President  Robert Zoellick 
indicated that risks to the global economy are intensifying,
with the euro region’s outlook dependent on European leaders
making the right decisions.  “We are moving into a dangerous period,” Zoellick said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television in Singapore today. While
the U.S. is likely to avoid a return to recession, escaping with
slow growth, the euro zone is facing a “particularly sensitive
time,” he said.  Zoellick’s comments add pressure to European officials who
have yet to contain a sovereign debt crisis that threatens to
engulf  Italy , whose government bonds in euros have tumbled for a
record 11 straight days.  Finland  has sown division among policy
makers by seeking collateral for loans to  Greece , the first of
the three euro-region nations to receive bailouts so far.  Asian stocks and U.S. futures fell and the euro slid for a
fifth day against the Swiss franc on concern  Europe ’s debt
crisis is worsening. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 1.7
percent at 3:15 p.m. in  Tokyo , with financial shares following a
slump in bank stocks in Europe as the cost of bank default
insurance surged to records.  Concern that the global economy will fall into another
slump has risen in recent weeks. The chance of a recession in
the euro zone has risen to 50 percent and there’s “definitely” a
risk that Europe will drag the rest of the world economy into a
contraction, Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of
Pacific Investment Management Co., said last week.  ‘Stall Speed’  The U.S. and European economies are stalling and weaker
global growth will have an impact on  Asia , Singapore’s Minister
of Finance Tharman Shanmugaratnam said at a conference today.
Growth in the U.S. and Europe may be about 1 percent, he told
reporters later.  “We’re already at stall speed in the U.S. and Europe, which
means we’re now more likely than not to see a recession,”
Shanmugaratnam said, without specifying the countries or regions
at risk of a contraction. Companies are holding back spending
and consumers globally are facing a loss of confidence, he said.  Zoellick played down the chance of a “double-dip” global
recession in comments to reporters in Singapore today.  Still, “we are now seeing a particularly sensitive time in
the euro zone,” the World Bank chief said in the interview. “A
number of issues are converging.”  European Meeting  Ministers from  Germany , Finland and the Netherlands will
meet today to discuss a Finnish demand for collateral in a
bailout for Greece, while the Italian Senate will debate an
austerity plan amid a strike. Meantime, data today may show U.S.
services industries grew at the slowest pace in more than a year,
as markets there resume trading after Labor Day.  “I believe the U.S. will have slow growth, I don’t believe
it will move to a double dip, but these things are very hard to
predict because if you have events trigger uncertainty in Europe,
that will flow back to the U.S.,” Zoellick said. The
performance of the euro zone “depends on the political
decisions moving forward,” he said.  The euro will survive in the next five years, while the
question over membership of the common currency is one that
Europeans have to answer, he said.  “Sometimes people hope that you can muddle through by
providing financing and liquidity, in the case of Europe, from
the European Financial Stability Facility or the  European
Central Bank ,” Zoellick said. “They now recognize that’s not
going to happen and instead what you see is with some of the
weaker economies, that the austerity policies are pushing them
into slower and slower growth and so this could be a downward
spiral.”  ‘Better Path’  Ireland,  Latvia  and the Baltic countries appear to be “on a
better path,” he said.  Spain  has “taken a lot of important
decisions” and Italy should be in a “sound” situation, he added.  The U.S. should address the rate of growth in its fiscal
expenditure, Zoellick also said.  President  Barack Obama  said yesterday spending to rebuild
the nation’s infrastructure is a key component of his plan to
reignite the economy and boost hiring. He told a Metro Detroit
Central Labor Council rally that the jobs agenda he’ll unveil in
a speech to Congress on Sept. 8 will include proposals that
previously have had support from both parties. Republicans, who
control the U.S. House, have signaled resistance to new spending
that would add to the federal  budget deficit .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Singapore  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  