-- ‘Mission Impossible’ Leads North America Holiday Movies With $26.5 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2011-12-26T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-25/-mission-impossible-sequel-wins-holiday-box-offices-with-26-5-million.html
“Mission: Impossible - Ghost
Protocol” was the top U.S. and Canadian film over the holiday
weekend, taking in $26.5 million for Paramount Pictures as
Hollywood prepared to close out a second year of falling sales.  “The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo,” from  Sony Corp. (6758) , was
fourth with $13 million in its debut,  Hollywood.com’s  box-office
unit said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Steven Spielberg ’s
“The Adventures of Tintin” was fifth with $9.13 million. Sales
at U.S. and Canadian cinemas this year have fallen 4.5 percent
to $9.9 billion, the film researcher said.  End-of-year films, which also include a new  Sherlock Holmes 
movie and  Martin Scorsese ’s “Hugo,” failed to generate enough
business to erase a drop from last year’s $10.6 billion in
sales. Studios have struggled to attract audiences to a 2011
lineup filled with sequels and a record 36 movies in 3-D.  “You started off with an awful first quarter, and that was
just a case of bad content,” said Martin Pyykkonen, an analyst
with Wedge Partners Group, an independent equity-analysis group
based in  Greenwood Village ,  Colorado .  “‘ Green Hornet ’ was the biggest example,” he said. “The
other problem was during the summer, you just had a lot of
crowding of good films that just couldn’t get enough breathing
room.”  In “Ghost Protocol,” the fourth “Mission Impossible”
film,  Tom Cruise  returns as Ethan Hunt, leader of an elite
special-operations squad that takes on the government’s most
difficult assignments.  ‘Dragon Tattoo’  This time, team members go underground to clear their names
after being falsely implicated in a bombing at the Kremlin. The
movie also features  Jeremy Renner  and  Simon Pegg .  The film opened Dec. 16 for an exclusive, five-day run in
large-screen theaters, including 300  Imax Corp. (IMAX)  locations,
before moving to wide release on Dec. 21. The first three films
generated $1.4 billion in global ticket sales, according to Box
Office Mojo, another film researcher.  “The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo” features Rooney Mara as
Lisbeth Salander, a computer-hacker employed by a security firm.
She joins with a journalist, played by  Daniel Craig , to
investigate a chain of homicides. The film is an English-
language remake of a Swedish adaption of the novel by Stieg
Larsson.  ‘Tintin’  “Tintin,” Spielberg’s adaption of the comic books by
Belgian author Herge, tells the story of an intrepid young
journalist who tries to unravel the mystery surrounding a lost
treasure. The computer-animated film features the voices of
Jamie Bell, Andy Serkis and Daniel Craig.  The distributor, Viacom Inc.’s  Paramount Pictures , opened
the film in October in parts of  Europe  and on Dec. 21 in the
U.S. and  Canada . It had $247 million in worldwide sales before
the weekend, according to Box Office Mojo.  “All the films have fallen victim to a slow marketplace,
and that particularly affected the newcomers,” said  Paul Dergarabedian , president of Hollywood.com’s box office division,
in a telephone interview. “We virtually had zero momentum
heading into Christmas.”  Ticket revenue for 2011 will just “limp over” the $10
billion mark, he said.  ‘Chipwrecked’  Among returning films, “Sherlock Holmes: A Game of
Shadows” dropped to second from first with $17.8 million.
Robert Downey Jr. reprises his role as the cerebral sleuth
created by novelist Arthur Conan Doyle. This time, Holmes and
his sidekick Dr. John Watson match wits with arch-criminal
Moriarty, who plots to create an arms race among European
military powers. Jude Law plays Watson and Jared Harris portrays
Moriarty.  “Alvin and the Chipmunks: Chipwrecked,” from  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox studio, finished third. The story of singing
chipmunks marooned on a seemingly deserted tropical island had
sales of $13.3 million.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 26 percent to
$100.5 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said.
Attendance is down 5.3 percent. The amounts below are based on
actual ticket sales for Dec. 23 and Dec. 24 and estimates for
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  