-- China, Japan to Back Direct Trade of Currencies
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2011-12-26T09:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-25/china-japan-to-promote-direct-trading-of-currencies-to-cut-company-costs.html
Japan  and China will promote direct
trading of the yen and yuan without using dollars and will
encourage the development of a market for companies involved in
the exchanges, the Japanese government said.  Japan will also apply to buy Chinese bonds next year,
allowing the investment of renminbi that leaves China during the
transactions, the Japanese government said in a statement after
a meeting between Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  and Chinese
Premier  Wen Jiabao  in Beijing yesterday. Encouraging direct yen-
yuan settlement should reduce currency risks and trading costs,
the Japanese and Chinese governments said.  China is Japan’s biggest trading partner with 26.5 trillion
yen ($340 billion) in two-way transactions last year, from 9.2
trillion yen a decade earlier. The pacts between the world’s
second- and third-largest economies mirror attempts by fund
managers to diversify as the two-year-old European debt crisis
keeps global financial markets volatile.  “Given the huge size of the trade volume between Asia’s
two biggest economies, this agreement is much more significant
than any other pacts China has signed with other nations,” said
Ren Xianfang, a Beijing-based economist with IHS Global Insight
Ltd.  Currency Swap  China also announced a 70 billion yuan ($11 billion)
currency swap agreement with  Thailand  last week as part of a
plan outlined in October to promote the use of the yuan in the
 Association of Southeast Asian Nations  and establish free trade
zones.  Central banks from Thailand to Nigeria plan to start buying
yuan assets as slowing global growth has capped  interest rates 
in the U.S. and  Europe .  The move by China and Japan to strengthen market
cooperation “benefits the ease of trade and investments between
the two countries,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei
said today in Beijing. “It strengthens the region’s ability to
protect against risks and deal with challenges.”  The yuan traded in Hong Kong’s offshore market gained 0.5
percent offshore last week and touched 6.3324 per dollar, the
strongest level since trading started in July 2010. Its  discount 
to the  exchange rate  in  Shanghai  narrowed to 0.1 percent, from a
record 1.9 percent on Sept. 23.  Yuan Gains  The yuan gained 0.05 percent in Shanghai to 6.3330 per
dollar today and was little changed at 6.3450 in Hong Kong. It
strengthened 4.3 percent this year, the best-performing Asian
currency excluding the yen. The currency is allowed to trade 0.5
percent on either side of that rate. The yuan is a denomination
of the renminbi.  Japan exported 10.8 trillion yen to China in the year
through November, and imported 12 trillion yen, according to
Ministry of Finance data. The deficit with China widened to 1.2
trillion yen, from 418 billion yen in January-to-November 2010.
About 60 percent of the trade transactions are settled in
dollars, according to Japan’s  Finance Ministry .  Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said Dec. 20 buying of Chinese
bonds would help reveal more information about financial markets
in China. Noda said in September 2010, when he was finance
minister, that Japan should be able to invest in China given
that its neighbor buys Japanese debt. Japan holds $1.3 trillion
of foreign-currency  reserves , the world’s second largest after
China’s $3.2 trillion.  Chinese Debt  Investing in Chinese debt has become easier for central
banks as issuance of yuan-denominated bonds in  Hong Kong  more
than tripled to 112 billion yuan ($18 billion) this year and
institutions were granted quotas to invest onshore. Japan will
start to buy “a small amount” of China’s bonds, a Japanese
government official said on condition of anonymity because of
the ministry’s policy, without elaborating.  China sold the second-biggest net amount of Japanese debt
on record in October as the yen headed for a postwar high
against the dollar and benchmark yields approached their lowest
levels in a year. It cut Japanese debt by 853 billion yen,
Japan’s Ministry of Finance said on Dec. 8.  Separately, the  Japan Bank for International Cooperation ,
JGC Corp., Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd., the Export-Import Bank of
 China  and other Chinese companies will establish a $154 million
fund to invest in environment-related businesses such as
recycling and energy, the Japanese government said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  