-- Mead Johnson Says Tests Show Enfamil Baby Formula Has No Bacteria, Is Safe
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2011-12-26T20:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-25/mead-johnson-says-tests-show-enfamil-baby-formula-has-no-bacteria-is-safe.html
Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN)  said
tests it conducted on samples of its Enfamil baby formula tied
to a U.S. Food and Drug Administration probe found no presence
of bacteria. The company called the product safe.  Two babies tested positive this month for the environmental
bacteria  Cronobacter , including a newborn in Lebanon, Missouri,
who died. The samples tested by Mead Johnson matched those being
screened by government regulators and, using their methods,
found no Cronobacter, the company said in a statement yesterday.  Retailers including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Kroger Co. (KR)  and
 Walgreen Co. (WAG)  last week removed from store shelves a batch of the
formula used by the baby who died. The companies didn’t
immediately respond to requests for comment today. A Mead
Johnson spokesman said the batch that was pulled probably
wouldn’t be made available for sale again until the FDA makes a
final determination based on its testing.  “It’s still a part of an official investigation so I would
suspect that those who did ‘pull and hold’ will hold until the
official investigation is completed before they put it back on
the shelf,” said Chris Perille, a Mead Johnson spokesman, in a
telephone interview today. “There would have to be confirmation
from the FDA before they do that.”  Perille yesterday said the company holds samples of every
batch it sends to retailers. The company’s negative test for
Cronobacter confirmed results the company got before it shipped
the batch of Enfamil Premium Newborn powdered formula, he said.  FDA test results are pending, Siobhan Delancey, an agency
spokeswoman, said today, declining further comment.  ‘May Be Coincidence’  The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in
Atlanta has been working with state regulations and the FDA in
testing in the  Missouri  cases, said Robert Tauxe, deputy
director of the division charged with prevention of foodborne,
waterborne, and fungal infection at the agency.  There is no evidence yet the two infections are related or
caused by infant formula, Tauxe said in a telephone interview on
Dec. 23. “This may just be coincidence,” he said.  Public health officials are gathering information on each
infant, checking to see if the bacteria in each infant have the
same genetic fingerprint, he said. If they do, that may suggest
they got the infection from the same source.  Initial results may be back by the end of this week, Tauxe
said. The CDC is testing leftover formula, he said, and the FDA
is testing unopened formula.  No other “serious” complaints have been reported related
to the batch of Enfamil Premium Newborn that’s being tested,
Perille said.  Lead Brand Franchise  The Enfa brands, which include Enfamil, accounted for 79
percent of Mead Johnson’s $3.14 billion in 2010 revenue and were
the world’s lead brand franchise in pediatric nutrition based on
retail sales, the Glenview, Illinois-based company said in a
February filing.  The company said all of its  infant formula  products undergo
more than 2,300 quality tests and checks to ensure they meet
standards set by the World Health Organization and FDA.  Mead Johnson shares fell 5.1 percent to $65.29 in New York
trading on Dec. 23, after falling 10 percent on Dec. 22 when
Wal-Mart pulled its Enfamil Newborn formula from shelves.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomerg.net  