-- Egypt Shares Rally Most in Month as Politicians Signal Unity; Dubai Drops
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2011-12-25T13:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-25/egypt-s-shares-rally-most-in-a-month-as-competing-politicians-signal-unity.html
Egyptian stocks advanced the most in
almost four weeks after weekend protests against the military’s
rule were peaceful and the bourse said competing political
parties will open tomorrow’s trading session.  Citadel Capital SAE , a Cairo-based private equity firm,
rose 2.7 percent.  Orascom Construction Industries (OCIC) , the country’s
largest publicly traded builder, climbed the most since Nov. 29.
The benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  jumped 1.9 percent, the biggest
advance this month, to 3,683.66 at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo.
In the Persian Gulf, Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  slid to the
lowest level in more than seven years. The Bloomberg GCC 200
Index, which tracks the largest 200 companies in the region,
gained 0.2 percent.  “The fact that different political factions are joining
hands to open the exchange tomorrow is giving a morale boost for
investors that they will back up the stock market and the
economy despite their differences,” Mohamed Radwan, head of
international sales at Cairo-based Pharos Holding for Financial
Investment, said by telephone.  Egyptian shares had dropped 7.8 percent amid five days of
violence that began Dec. 16 as security forces tried to disperse
protesters camped out in central Cairo for about a month.
Moody’s Investors Service cut  Egypt ’s rating last week to B2,
five levels below investment grade, citing the government’s
deteriorating finances and the “unsettled political
situation.”  United Open  The Egyptian Exchange said yesterday political parties
including the affiliate of the Muslim Brotherhood, the Freedom
and Justice Party and several secular parties would open
tomorrow’s session.  Citadel rose  to 2.68 Egyptian pounds, the biggest gain
since Nov. 29. The Cairo-based private-equity firm said it will
sign a $325 million agreement with Citigroup Inc. to refinance
debt and fund expansion. Orascom climbed 2.5 percent to 201.86
pounds.  In the gulf, Dubai’s measure lost 0.8 percent to 1,328.07,
the lowest since June 2004.  “The market is still struggling to clear the overhang of
trading positions built to bet on the MSCI upgrade event,” said
Vipin Karnani, a financial analyst at Al Fahim Group in Abu
Dhabi. “The end-of-the-year factor, when traders, brokerages
and other institutional participants close and clear their
trading portfolios, is also contributing to the current dullness
in the market.”  MSCI Inc., whose stock indexes are tracked by investors
with about $3 trillion in assets, said Dec. 15 it will maintain
frontier status for the United Arab Emirates and Qatar, the
second time this year the countries failed to secure an upgrade
to emerging-market status.  Qatar’s  DSM Index (DSM)  increased 0.4 percent and  Oman’s gauge (MSM30) 
added 0.2 percent.  Abu Dhabi’s measure (ADSMI) ,  Bahrain’s benchmark (BHSEASI)  and
Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  slipped less than 0.1
percent.  In Israel, the benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  gained 2 percent at
2:35 p.m. in Tel Aviv. The yield on the benchmark Mimshal
Shiklit government bonds due January 2022 was unchanged at 4.52
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  