-- Egypt Economy Slows as Turmoil Takes Toll
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2011-12-25T14:52:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-25/egypt-economy-slows-as-turmoil-takes-toll.html
Egypt’s economic growth slowed in
the first quarter of the fiscal year as the nation’s worst
political crisis in at least three decades eroded income from
tourism, manufacturing and construction.  Gross domestic product expanded 0.2 percent in the three
months that ended Sept. 30, compared with growth of 0.4 percent
in the previous three months, according to data released by the
Ministry of Planning.  “This is far below our expectations,”  Alia Mamdouh , an
economist at Cairo-based investment bank CI Capital, said in a
telephone interview. She had forecast a growth of 0.8 percent.  The turmoil that followed the ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak  in February prompted tourists to stay away and brought
foreign direct investment down 93 percent in the first nine
months of the year to $376 million, according to central bank
data. Egypt’s foreign currency reserves tumbled 44 percent in
the first 11 months to $20.2 billion.  Continued depletion of the reserves “will have serious
negative consequences,” the ministry said in the report.  Tourism Suffers  Tourism contracted 10.4 percent and manufacturing shrank
3.3 percent, the ministry said. Construction, which grew 0.3
percent in the last quarter of the previous fiscal year, shrank
2.8 percent.  Total investments declined 18 percent to 46 billion pounds
($7.6 billion), according to the report. Revenue from the  Suez
Canal  climbed 8.4 percent and telecommunications expanded 3.7
percent, the data show.  The crisis has sent government borrowing costs to a record
high after foreign investors cutting their holdings of treasury
bills by $7.5 billion in the first nine months of 2011, compared
with net purchases of $8.6 billion in the same period a year
earlier, central bank data show.  The Ministry of Finance raised 4 billion pounds in treasury
bills today, missing its target by 1.5 billion pounds. The
ministry sold 3 billion pounds in three-month treasury bills at
an average yield of 13.95 percent, the same cost it paid on
similar maturity debt last week, according to central bank data
on Bloomberg. It had planned to sell 2 billion pounds.  Egypt  also sold 1 billion pounds in nine-month securities,
with the average yield rising to 15.26 percent compared with
15.209 percent last week, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Inal Ersan at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net  