-- Telecom Stocks Lead Weekly Gains in N.Y. Index: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2011-12-25T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-25/telecom-stocks-lead-weekly-gains-in-n-y-index-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities listed in the U.S.
posted the first weekly gain in three, led by telecom and
Internet companies, on speculation slower growth in China may
prompt the government to add more cash to the economy.  The Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese
stocks rose 1.7 percent last week to 95.80.  China Mobile Ltd. (CHL) 
and China Unicom ( Hong Kong ) Ltd. drove up the benchmark after
adding the most 3G subscribers on record last month.  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) ,
owner of the country’s biggest online-search engine, and Sina
Corp. paced advances among Internet shares for the week.  China
Petroleum and Chemical Corp.  and  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC)  also
ended the week stronger after buying resources overseas.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged last week to provide support to
small companies and the export sector as  Europe ’s debt crisis
lingers. The government cut the amount of cash lenders must set
aside as reserves this month as the economy grew at the slowest
pace since 2008.  “With the slowdown in the economy next year, the Chinese
authorities are likely to reduce the reserve requirement
ratio,” said Kelvin Tay, the Singapore-based chief investment
strategist at UBS AG Wealth Management in an interview with
Bloomberg Television Dec. 23. “With an improving liquidity
outlook, the Chinese stock market should gradually improve.”  China Mobile, the country’s largest wireless carrier, added
a net 2.68 million 3G users in November, the biggest monthly
gain on record. That compared with a record 3.38 million at
 China Unicom (CHU) , the second-largest and the only carrier offering
Apple Inc.’s iPhone with a service contract in China. China
Telecom, the smallest of the three, gained a net 2.16 million 3G
users for the month.  Telecom Stocks  China Unicom is likely to meet its full-year target of
adding 25 million 3G subscribers, analysts led by Anand Ramachandran at Barclays Capital Inc. said in a report Dec. 20.
Jefferies Hong Kong Ltd. and DBS Vickers Hong Kong Ltd.
maintained a “buy” rating on the company.  The ishares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose 2.3 percent last week to
$35.31. The Chinese  yuan  strengthened 0.2 percent during the
period to 6.3364 a dollar, according to the  China  Foreign
Exchange Trade System.  China Petrochemical Corp., a unit of China Petroleum known
as Sinopec, completed the purchase of  Canada ’s Daylight Energy
Ltd. for about C$2.2 billion ($2.16 billion), the company said
in an e-mailed statement Dec. 23. The purchase gives the
Beijing-based company access to more than 300,000 acres of land
in areas rich with oil and natural gas, after falling crude
prices made valuations attractive.  Sinopec, Yanzhou Coal  Sinopec’s American depositary receipts climbed 4.8 percent
in the past week to a 10-month high of $106.79.  Yanzhou’s ADRs gained 3 percent last week to $21.47,
following a three-day trading suspension ahead of the deal to
buy Australia’s Gloucester Coal Ltd.  The transaction values Sydney-based Gloucester at as much
as A$10.16 a share, subject to conditions, according to a
statement from the Australian company. The acquisition will
almost double Yanzhou’s coal mines in  Australia , the world’s
biggest exporter, as well as expand its access to ports.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 3.7 percent last
week to 1,265.33. The Shanghai Composite Index sank for the
seventh week, declining 0.9 percent to 2,204.78.  The Shanghai measure is trading at an  estimated price-
earnings ratio  of 10.6 times. That compared with 13.7 for Indian
stocks, 10.2 for Brazilian shares and 4.6 for Russian equities.  China, the world’s second-largest economy, expanded 9.1
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, down from 9.5
percent in the second. Consumer prices rose 4.2 percent in
November from a year ago, the slowest pace in 14 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  