-- Christmas Bombings in Nigeria Kill at Least 26 as White House Pledges Help
-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u   a n d   G b e n g a   A k i n g b u l e
-- 2011-12-26T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-25/nigeria-church-explosion-leaves-many-casualties-emergency-services-say.html
The Obama administration promised to
help Nigeria find the people responsible for a wave of Christmas
Day bombings that killed dozens in the oil-rich African nation.  “We have been in contact with Nigerian officials about
what appear to be terrorist acts and pledge to assist them in
bringing those responsible to justice,” according to a
statement by White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney .  Boko Haram, a Muslim sect, reportedly claimed
responsibility for the attacks -- two of which targeted
churches. A year ago, the group said it was behind holiday
bombings that killed more than 90.  The first explosion occurred as services were ending at St.
Theresa’s Church near the capital, Abjua. Yemi Ajayi, a police
spokesman, said at least 20 people were killed.  Another blast, at a church in the central city of Jos,
capital of Plateau state, killed a policeman, said Pam Ayuba, a
spokesman for the state government.  A suspected suicide-bomber rammed a car into the entrance
of the State Security Service building in the northeastern city
of Damaturu, killing four people and the bomber, Victor
Ebhaleme, a spokesman for the military  task force  in charge of
security in the region, said by phone from Maiduguri.  The Boko Haram, a group that draws inspiration from
 Afghanistan ’s Taliban movement, claimed responsibility for the
Abuja church attack, the Abuja-based Trust newspaper reported,
citing a spokesman for the group, Abu Qaqa. The claim couldn’t
be independently verified.  The Vatican denounced the attacks, saying the church
bombings were a sign of “cruelty and absurd blind hatred that
shows no respect for human life.  Authorities in  Africa ’s top oil producer blame the Boko
Haram for a surge of violence in the mainly Muslim north and
Abuja in which hundreds of people have died this year. At least
72 people have been killed in fighting since Dec. 22 between
Nigerian security forces and the militant group in the
northeastern city of Damaturu, officials said.  Boko Haram, which translates to “Western education is a
sin,” claimed responsibility for a suicide car-bomb attack on
the United Nations building in the capital on Aug. 26 that
killed 24 people. It also claimed several Christmas Eve blasts
last year in Jos that left 80 people dead and another blast on
New Year’s Eve at an Abuja military barracks that killed at
least 12 people.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net ;
Gbenga Akingbule in Johannesburgt .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  