-- Noda’s ‘Urgent’ Task May Be Tax Rise as Japan Debt Load Swelling: Economy
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2011-12-26T04:38:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-25/noda-s-urgent-task-is-tax-rise-as-japan-debt-load-swells.html
Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  faces
escalating pressure to secure support for higher taxes after
Japan’s budget plan for the next fiscal year showed a record
dependence on borrowing.  The government will sell 44.2 trillion yen ($566 billion)
of new bonds to fund 90.3 trillion yen of spending, raising the
budget’s reliance on debt to an unprecedented 49 percent, a plan
approved by the Cabinet in Tokyo on Dec. 24 showed. While
spending will decrease for the first time in six years, Noda
will delay funding the nation’s pension fund and will create a
separate budget account to pay for earthquake reconstruction.  An aging population and two decades of low growth after an
asset bubble burst in the early 1990s have left Japan with  debt 
projected at a record 1 quadrillion yen this year. Noda faces
opposition from the public and within his Democratic Party of
Japan to boosting sales taxes even as  Standard & Poor’s  mulls
lowering the sovereign rating, already cut in January to AA-.  “The government should hike the consumption tax rate and
cut social security spending as soon as possible,” said Masaaki Kanno, chief economist at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and a former  Bank
of Japan (8301)  official. “This is urgent. We do not have the luxury
of losing any more time.”  About 53 percent of voters oppose an increase, with a third
saying Noda should call an election before such legislation,
news service Jiji Press said last week, citing a Dec. 9-12
survey of 2,000 people. The DPJ lost its majority in the upper
house of the parliament last year after then-Prime Minister
 Naoto Kan  campaigned on a pledge to cut spending and raise the 5
percent sales tax.  DPJ Opposition  DPJ lawmakers with weak electoral majorities may be
“tempted to vote for their constituents’ purses” by opposing
an increase, said Jun Okumura, a former Japanese trade ministry
official and a consultant at the Eurasia Group risk consulting
firm in  Tokyo .  While Japan’s  gross domestic product  grew an annualized 5.6
percent in the three months ended September as demand picked up
after the March 11 earthquake, the pace will probably slow. The
median estimate of 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News is
for growth of 0.42 percent this quarter. Of the 10 polled this
month, five predict GDP will shrink.  Elsewhere in the world, data may show American  home prices 
dropped at a slower pace in October and  consumer confidence 
improved in December, according to surveys of economists by
Bloomberg News.  Germany  is scheduled to report December
inflation in three days and Japan will release data on
unemployment, inflation and factory output on Dec. 28. Countries
from France to the U.K. to U.S. are observing national holidays
today.  Yen Gains  Gains in the yen are weighing on growth by eroding
exporters’ profits, a factor cited by Moody’s Investors Service
in cutting the rating outlook for  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  on Dec. 22.
 Europe ’s debt crisis is reducing demand for the nation’s
products, while earthquake reconstruction costs will swell
spending. The yen traded at 77.99 per dollar as of 1:21 p.m. in
Tokyo after touching a post-World War II high of 75.35 on Oct.
31.  Noda’s party will today present a plan for raising the
sales tax, lawmaker Shinichiro Furumoto said last week. The
ruling coalition plans to raise the rate to 8 percent in October
2013 and 10 percent in 2015,  Kyodo News  reported Dec. 21, citing
government sources.  Challenges Increasing  The “challenge is increasing” for Japan,  Thomas Byrne ,
senior vice president at Moody’s Investors Service, said in an
interview today while reiterating the nation’s Aa3 credit rating
with a stable outlook. “Without improvement, there would be
downward pressures on the rating.”  The  International Monetary Fund  says a gradual increase to
15 percent “could provide roughly half of the fiscal adjustment
needed to put the public-debt ratio on a downward path.”  Martin Schulz , a senior economist at Fujitsu Research Institute in
Tokyo, advocates boosting the tax to “at least” 20 percent.  Former DPJ leader  Ichiro Ozawa  and  Shizuka Kamei , the head
of the People’s New Party, a coalition partner, aim to head off
the move. Kamei said this month that “we’re not in normal
times, and it’s folly to be playing around with the tax
system.”  So far, Japan’s debt burden hasn’t impeded the government’s
ability to borrow, with  10-year bond yields  poised to close
below 1 percent for the first year since 2002.  Noda’s spending plan for the year starting April includes a
3.8 trillion yen special account for reconstruction spending.  Besides the  consumption tax , a government panel proposes
increasing the highest personal income tax rate to 45 percent
from 40 percent by the middle of this decade.  ‘Too Slow’  “Japan’s government is proposing the right remedies for
the country’s fiscal debt problems, but the speed is too slow
and we can’t be confident that the measures will actually be
implemented,” said Hitoshi Suzuki, a senior researcher of Daiwa
Institute of Research in Tokyo.  Tokyo-based Ratings & Investment Information Inc. cut
Japan’s rating for the first time on Dec. 21. S&P has a negative
outlook for the nation and said last month that a downgrade may
be getting closer after insufficient progress in tackling a
public debt burden that is the world’s biggest.  Japan ’s structural deficit “is completely out of whack
because of increasing social security demands and costs,”
Schulz of Fujitsu said last week. “If the government remains
lazy in terms of hiking the consumption tax rate, it’s just a
matter of time before the very obedient Japanese investors are
no longer happy to finance the deficit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  