-- S.Korea Delegation Heads North as Kim Jong Un Elevated
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n   a n d   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2011-12-26T04:46:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-25/north-korea-says-south-risks-catastrophe-in-limiting-kim-condolence-visits.html
Hyundai Group ’s chairwoman and a
former South Korean first lady arrived in Pyongyang on a private
visit as their government’s restrictions on condolences for the
death of  Kim Jong Il  drew warnings of “unpredictable
catastrophic consequences” from  North Korea .  Lee Hee Ho, the 89-year-old widow of former President Kim Dae Jung, said it was her duty to offer condolences. The North’s
official news agency confirmed the arrival of Lee and Hyundai’s
Hyun Jeong Eun, who are leading a party of 18 on a two-day trip.  The reaction to any attempts by the South to bar citizens
from paying respect for the former dictator Kim underscored
efforts to buttress the position of the deceased leader’s son,
Kim Jong Un. The ruling party named the younger Kim head of its
central committee, and the official Korean Central News Agency
started referring to him as “supreme leader of the
revolutionary armed forces” and “tender-hearted father.”  “The DPRK will never tolerate anyone checking mourners,”
the North’s news service said yesterday, citing the state-run
Committee for Peaceful Reunification of  Korea  and referring to
the nation by its official name, the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea. “The South Korean authorities should bear in
mind that their obstructions will entail unpredictable
catastrophic consequences to the North-South relations.”  Condolences by Fax  No government officials from  Seoul  will pay condolences,
according to the Unification Ministry, which oversees policy
toward North Korea.  South Korea , which prohibits its citizens
from traveling to the North except to visit the jointly run
Gaeseong industrial complex, gave special permission for Lee and
Hyun. Private individuals and groups, also banned by South
Korean law from praising the North Korean regime, are being
allowed to send condolences via mail or fax.  While the Lee and Hyun delegation didn’t say if it would
see Kim Jong Un, who is thought to be in his late 20s, such a
meeting is likely, according to Paik Hak Soon, director of North
Korean studies at Seongnam, South Korea-based Sejong Institute.
Chances of any political progress are limited, Paik said.  In the U.S., Senator  Richard Lugar , the top Republican on
the chamber’s Foreign Relations Committee, said he is concerned
that the transition to a new North Korean leader could provide
an opening for the transfer of nuclear materials out of the
country.  Senator’s Concern  “Some in the country might try to sell this to others
because of the economic crisis that they have,” Lugar said on
CNN’s “State of the Union” program. “That would certainly be
one of the missions that I would be most concerned about.”  Paik said a flurry of official statements hailing the
younger Kim over the past week indicates that he may be given
the highest formal roles in the country more quickly than was
his father, who waited three years for the titles following the
death of the nation’s founder,  Kim Il Sung .  Jang Song Thaek, an ally and brother-in-law of Kim Jong Il,
was shown in military uniform for the first time on state
television yesterday, Yonhap news reported. Jang’s role within
the power structure is widening and this will help him guide and
protect the young leader, said Kim Yong Hyun, a professor of
North Korea studies at  Dongguk University  in Seoul.  The group that left today traveled by land and crossed the
border about 8:30 a.m. through the Demilitarized Zone near the
village of Panmunjom, where a cease-fire that ended fighting in
the  Korean War  was signed in 1953.  Special Permission  South Korea’s government on Dec. 20 expressed “sympathy”
to the people of North Korea over Kim’s Dec. 17 death, stopping
short of offering formal condolences. His funeral is planned for
Dec. 28.  Chung Ju Yung, the late founder of the  Hyundai Group ,
herded cattle across the border during a famine in the North in
1998, expressing his desire to reunite the two Koreas. Kim Dae
Jung traveled to Pyongyang for a landmark summit with his North
Korean counterpart in 2000, part of his so-called Sunshine
Policy that attempted to defuse tension on the peninsula.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  