-- Obamas Attend Christmas Services With Marines
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2011-12-26T02:52:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-25/obamas-attend-christmas-services-with-marines-on-hawaii-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  is combining
church service with a Christmas Day visit to U.S. military
members stationed in  Hawaii .  Obama arrived at 11:08 a.m. local time at the Marine Corps
Base at Kaneohe Bay on Oahu, repeating a tradition he’s followed
since 2008. With Christmas falling on a Sunday this year, the
president and his family attended services at the base chapel,
while vacationing in nearby Kailua. The visit by Obama, who was
born and raised in Honolulu, follows the Dec. 15 end to U.S. war
in Iraq.  The president has visited troops on Christmas Day at the
Kaneohe  base  the past three years. Yesterday, he made telephone
calls to 10 service members, said  Josh Earnest , deputy White
House press secretary. The Obamas will have Christmas dinner at
their vacation home.  Obama and his wife returned to the base shortly after 3:30
p.m. local time. Hundreds of service members and their families
were gathered for a holiday meal at Anderson Hall.  The Obamas made the rounds, posing for photos, shaking
hands, asking about their holidays and thanking troops for their
service. The president made no formal remarks.  Entering the hall, he picked up a one-month-old infant,
Adeline Whitney, and joked that the baby, who remained asleep,
was “very excited to meet the president.”  Iraq War  Over  The baby’s father, William Whitney, 25, a civilian who
works in the chow hall, said in an interview that while he is
glad to see the  Iraq  war over, he is also anxious for the war in
 Afghanistan  to end. “I feed these guys -- it’s good to
see a lot of their faces coming home,” he said.  Obama also stopped to talk to the Nastase family, including
chatting about toys with Grace Nastase, 10, and her twin
brother, Alex. Their father, Marine Corps Colonel Nathan
Nastase, was home after four rotations in Iraq, his wife Susan
said.  The president’s wife spoke by telephone yesterday with
children and parents in connection with a program by NORAD, the
North American Aerospace Defense Command, said to track Santa’s
 location  as he drops gifts around the world.  According to a transcript of remarks released by the White
House,  Michelle Obama  told participants that while the White
House has multiple fireplaces, she believes Santa usually
descends into the Yellow Oval Room and “that’s where we put our
Santa tree.”  Holiday Time  She also said she and her daughters asked Santa, the Tooth
Fairy “and every fairy that they could think of” for President
Obama to be with them in time for the holiday.  Obama, with the family dog, Bo, arrived in Honolulu on Dec.
23, days after his planned Dec. 17 departure from  Washington . He
postponed leaving until Congress reached an agreement to extend
an expiring payroll tax cut for another two months while
lawmakers negotiate a yearlong extension. Obama has said that
the  tax cut , worth about $1,000 per year or $40 per two-week pay
period for a family earning $50,000 a year, would make a
difference for working families.  The Obamas are staying at a rental home in Kailua, where
they opened gifts today at 8 a.m. local time, ate breakfast and
sang carols, according to a statement released by the White
House.  They dined with friends and family on Dec. 23 at the
Morimoto restaurant in Waikiki. Obama also played golf with
friends and aides yesterday and had a family Christmas Eve
dinner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Honolulu at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 