-- Home Prices in U.S. Probably Fell at Slower Pace as Market Gained Traction
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2011-12-25T05:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-25/home-prices-probably-fell-confidence-up-u-s-economy-preview.html
Home prices  in 20 U.S. cities
probably declined at a slower pace and  consumer confidence 
improved, signs the economy gained strength heading into 2012,
economists said before reports this week.  Property  values  dropped 3.2 percent in October from the
same month in 2010, the smallest year-over-year decrease since
January, according to the median forecast of 20 economists
before a Dec. 27 report from S&P/Case-Shiller. Consumer
confidence rose to a five-month high in December and more people
signed contracts to buy previously owned homes than a month
earlier, other data may show.  Rising builder confidence, fewer unsold new properties on
the market and a pickup in construction point to improvement in
the industry that triggered the last recession. Real estate is
still facing another wave of foreclosures that may keep pressure
on home prices, making for an uneven housing recovery.  “We’ll continue to see prices drop,” said  Mark Vitner , a
senior economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,
 North Carolina . “The middle of 2012 is when we think prices
will actually bottom.”  Economists surveyed projected the gauge of residential
real-estate values declined 0.3 percent in October from the
prior month, when it fell 0.6 percent. The index was down 31
percent in September from its July 2006 peak.  The year-over-year gauge provides a better indication of
trends in prices, the group has said. The panel includes  Karl Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who created the index.  Pending Home Sales  Figures on Dec. 29 may show pending sales of previously
owned homes rose 1.5 percent in November after a 10 percent
jump, economists said before a report from the National
Association of Realtors.  Reports last week showed a pickup in demand for houses.
Sales of previously owned homes, which make up about 94 percent
of the market, rose 4 percent to a 4.42 million annual pace, the
most since January, the National Association of Realtors said
Dec. 21.  Purchases of new single-family properties advanced 1.6
percent to a 315,000 annual pace, a seven-month high, figures
from the Commerce Department showed Dec. 23. The increase pushed
the number of new homes on the market to a record low.  Those gains have buoyed builders’ stocks since the end of
the third quarter. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
Homebuilding  Index (S15HOME) , which includes Toll Brothers Inc. and Lennar
Corp., has climbed 32 percent, while the broader  S&P 500  has
gained 12 percent.  Consumer Confidence  As housing stabilizes and employment strengthens, consumers
are becoming more optimistic. Confidence rose to 58.6 from 56
last month, according to the Bloomberg survey median before a
Dec. 27 report from the New York-based Conference Board.  Other surveys reflect gains in optimism. The Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index improved to minus 45 in the period ended
Dec. 18 from a reading of minus 49.9 the prior week, marking the
biggest seven-day gain since January. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer sentiment rose
to a six-month high in December.  Some homebuilders say an increase in sentiment is needed to
help boost demand.  “We need a higher level of confidence to get back to the
traditional move-upstream or first-time buyer out of the
rental,”  Jeffrey Mezger , chief executive officer of KB Home,
said on a Dec. 21 conference call with analysts. “A lot of
consumers are surprised, frankly, at how low home payments are
compared to rent.”  Policy makers are promoting programs designed to
reinvigorate the housing market. The Obama administration this
month started a new version of the federal Home Affordable
Refinance Program, or HARP, after the original plan helped less
than a quarter of the people targeted to lock in lower  mortgage
rates .  Officials at the  Federal Reserve  this month reiterated that
they will keep the benchmark  interest rate  near zero until at
least mid-2013. The central bank in September decided to
reinvest maturing housing debt into new mortgage-backed
securities instead of Treasuries.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  