-- PBOC’s Governor Zhou Says China Should Cut Reliance on Foreign Ratings
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-25T07:50:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-25/pboc-head-zhou-says-china-should-cut-reliance-on-foreign-ratings-companies.html
China  should reduce its reliance on
overseas rating companies by encouraging large financial
institutions to strengthen their research and make their own
judgments, central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said.  The nation is also considering establishing credit-rating
companies backed by the government, Zhou said at a financial
forum in Beijing today. A copy of his speech transcript was
posted on financial news portal hexun.com.  Zhou’s remarks reflect China’s desire to seek alternatives
to the top-three global rating companies amid skepticism among
officials about the firms’ independence. The nation set up its
first rating company that makes investors rather than borrowers
pay, called China Credit Rating Co., in September last year.  "With the rapid expansion in China’s bond market, we need
rating companies that are familiar with the Chinese situation,"
said  Lu Zhengwei , Shanghai-based chief economist at Industrial
Bank Co., who was rated the nation’s best analyst in 2010 by
China Business News newspaper. “We see comments from rating
companies during this round of the crisis have influenced the
financial market to a large degree. It’s no surprise China is
paying attention to them.”  ‘Beneficial Alliance’  Overseas rating companies’ earnings models cause “a strong
beneficial alliance between the issuer and the ratings agency
that cannot avoid influencing the agency’s independence,” said
the National Association of Financial Market Institutional
Investors in a draft report seen by Bloomberg News last July.
The association was formed by the central bank in 2007 to help
develop the country’s over-the-counter financial markets.  One possibility for nurturing local rating companies is to
require that a domestic firm also rate a local financial product
if one of the international companies does so, said Zhou, the
governor of People’s Bank of China. Moody’s Investors Service,
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings are the three biggest rating
companies.  Domestic rating firms can play a larger role by researching
the finances of local or municipal government, an area in which
foreign companies lack expertise, Zhou said.  The State Council, China’s cabinet, has designated the
central bank to regulate the country’s credit-rating companies,
making it the sole regulator of the industry, local media
reported last week.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  