-- Traders Double Bets on Israel Rate Cut as Global Slowdown Crimps Exports
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2011-12-26T11:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-25/traders-double-bets-on-israel-rate-cut-as-global-slowdown-crimps-exports.html
Traders doubled bets on Israeli
 interest rate  cuts in the past two weeks, speculating the
central bank will act to insulate the economy from a global
slump as inflation slowed to a one-year low.  The Bank of  Israel  may lower the 2.75 percent key rate 41
basis points over the next 12 months, compared with 21 basis
points of cuts priced in on Dec. 8, according to  interest-rate
swaps , an indicator of investor expectations. Policy makers
review borrowing costs today, with 12 out of 20 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg forecasting a 25 basis-point reduction.  “Traders expect the Bank of Israel to act fast and lower
rates in coming months before the crisis in Europe, which is
expected to further ease local exports and private consumption,
deteriorates,” Modi Shafrir, chief economist at Tel Aviv-based
I.L.S. Brokers Ltd., said by telephone. “The central bank has
the ammunition to boost growth as inflation has slowed.”  Israeli  economic growth  has been slowing this year as the
debt crisis in  Europe , one of the nation’s biggest trading
partners, crimps demand for exports such as electronic
components. Overseas shipments account for almost 40 percent of
Israel’s gross domestic product and the threat of a worsening
global slowdown spurred the central bank to cut rates twice in
the past three months, joining emerging-market policy makers
from  Brazil  to  Indonesia  in easing access to funding.  The  trade deficit  widened in November to a seasonally
adjusted $1.64 billion from $1.45 billion the previous month,
the statistics office said Dec. 12. It had widened to $1.78
billion in May, the most in at least 16 years, as exports fell.  Room to Cut  A greater-than-expected slowdown in inflation is giving
Governor Stanley Fischer more room to lower borrowing costs.
Consumer prices rose 2.6 percent in November from a year
earlier, Israel’s  Central Bureau of Statistics  said Dec. 15.
Economists had predicted a rate of 2.8 percent, according to the
median 10 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Before the announcement, 11 out of 15 economists surveyed
said the central bank would leave the benchmark interest rate
unchanged and four forecast a reduction.  “ Core inflation  was down, housing prices were down, it was
a trend-setting kind of thing,” said  Jonathan Katz , a  Jerusalem 
based economist for HSBC Holdings Plc. “I thought Fischer would
be on pause. But now I think he could cut.”  The two-year break-even rate, the yield difference between
inflation-linked bonds and fixed-rate government bonds of
similar maturity, has fallen from a high of 357 on May 2 to a
low of 157 on Sept. 15. The rate implied inflation of 1.92
percent as of 12:35 p.m. in Tel Aviv.  Worsening Global Outlook  Economists’ 12-month  inflation expectations  declined to 2.2
percent from 2.3 percent a month earlier, the central bank
reported Dec. 19. The government’s target range for inflation is
1 percent to 3 percent.  The central bank last cut its  benchmark  lending rate in
November, lowering it by a quarter point. While Israel passed
through the 2008-2009 crisis in “reasonable shape,” the
economy is now being affected by the worsening global outlook
and the  Bank of Israel  was justified in switching to a loosening
monetary stance, the OECD said Dec. 12.  The Bank of Israel will probably lower its growth forecast
of 3.2 percent for 2012 as the European crisis weighs on the
global economy, Fischer said Dec. 7. The bank’s new growth
prediction will probably be “around” the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development’s 2.9 percent forecast, he
said. The Central Bureau of Statistics said on Nov. 16 economic
growth eased to an annualized 3.4 percent in the third quarter
from a revised 3.5 percent in the previous three months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Wrobel in  Tel Aviv  at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 