-- Republicans May Be Dealing Obama a Winning Hand: Albert R. Hunt
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2011-12-25T16:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-25/republicans-may-be-dealing-obama-a-winning-hand-albert-r-hunt.html
Barack Obama  probably will have to
pull out a familiar card next year: the luck of the draw.  In winning the 2008 Democratic presidential nomination, the
president defeated political heavyweights, starting with  Hillary Clinton . His other triumphs were facilitated by lots of luck.  In his 2004 race for a U.S. Senate seat in  Illinois , the
candidacies of both his chief primary opponent and initial
Republican rival collapsed when divorce papers were disclosed
during the campaign; one was accused of violent behavior and the
other of kinky sex. In that year’s general election, his
Republican opponent, by process of elimination, was Alan Keyes,
a fringe figure who wasn’t even a resident of the state.  In the 2008 general election, Obama faced Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , an American icon on questions of national
security and a political reformer who had little interest in
economic issues. In an election dominated by the worst economic
crisis since the Great Depression, this was a problem.  To many, that economy seems worse today, which is why a
segment of the conventional wisdom holds that the president is
unlikely to be re-elected, or in any case can’t command 50
percent of the vote. The jobless rate is 8.6 percent, chronic
unemployment is the worst since the 1930s, and a huge majority
of Americans think the country is on the wrong track.  Job Approval  The best indicator, Obama re-election doubters say, is the
president’s own job approval, now hovering around 46 percent,
though several new polls have him inching upward. By the end of
1979,  Jimmy Carter  had gotten a bounce because of a rally around
the president after Americans were taken hostage in  Iran ; within
four months he was back down in the 30s. Obama is doing better
than George H.W. Bush at this stage and not as well as  Ronald Reagan ,  Bill Clinton  and George W. Bush.  He’s in a danger zone. Presidential candidates usually
capture a percentage of the vote that is about the same as their
approval rating. In 2004, George W. Bush’s share of the vote was
about equal to his job approval number right before the
election; Clinton, in 1996, and George H.W. Bush, in 1992, were
about within that margin of error. That suggests Obama is in
trouble in a two-person race.  Yet there’s another indicator that gets less notice: the
status of the challenging party. The last four times an
insurgent party has captured the presidency -- 1980, 1992, 2000
and 2008 -- it had a positive approval rating a year before
Election Day that usually was better than the incumbent party’s.  Rational Alternatives  The 1980 contest was about Carter’s performance. The
congressional Republicans, however, offered rational
conservative alternatives for their nominee to run on. After the
 Cold War  ended, during the first Bush presidency, Democrats
seized the initiative on the economy and health care.  In 1999, both the Republicans and Democrats had about 50
percent approval. By the following fall, they remained about
even and the presidential race that year was a tie, with  George
W. Bush  winning a controversial victory. Four years ago, the
Democrats had a 54 percent approval rating, with 30 percent
disapproval; the Republicans got a clear negative from the
electorate that held for the next year. Obama easily won the
election.  Today, a plethora of polls shows both parties are held in
low regard by the electorate, but the Republicans consistently
do worse. They have been on a steady decline throughout this
year. The explanation Republican politicians give for this slide
is instructive. National politicos say congressional Republicans
are to blame; on  Capitol Hill , there’s a lot of finger-pointing
at the presidential candidates.  Tea Party Overreach  The public, polls show, resents an overreach by Tea Party
Republicans this year. Especially damaging was the brinkmanship
on the debt ceiling, which seemed to indicate a willingness to
let the U.S. government default on its obligations. Currently,
even some conservatives are stunned at how the inept  House
Republicans  allowed Obama to run circles around them on the
payroll tax cut, forcing them to capitulate.  From a congressional perspective, it’s the debates among
the presidential candidates that are the culprit. Asked about
the decline in the party’s image, Representative Pete Sessions
of  Texas , the head of the  National Republican Congressional
Committee , said the “brand-name of Republican is drawing a lot
of attention and focus because of the presidential candidates.”  Republicans, acknowledging these shortcomings, reply in
essence that it doesn’t matter; re-elections are always about
the incumbent.  History suggests that is a bit of an exaggeration.
Curiously, that case may be best illustrated by two elections in
which incumbent presidents were defeated, Carter in 1980 and
 George H.W. Bush  in 1992.  Taking a Chance  Prior to the election of Reagan, congressional Republicans
had laid the foundation for a national campaign, pushing the
Kemp-Roth across-the-board tax cuts and making the case that the
Carter administration was weak on national security.  Yet even a few weeks before that November election the
outcome was in doubt; Reagan and his party had to convince
dissatisfied voters it was worth taking a chance on them.  In 1992, the desire for change was as palpable. Yet it
wasn’t easy for Clinton to pull away until the closing week of
the campaign.  This time around, former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , the likely 2012 Republican nominee, has strengths, but
he’s not the gifted politician that Reagan and Clinton were and
his party certainly hasn’t established a positive predicate for
him to run on in a change election.  Obama has considerable challenges. People who’ve met with
him privately suggest he evokes little of the “fierce urgency
of now.” The White House staff seems spent, their message is
confusing and contradictory. They brought in an able chief of
staff, Bill Daley, and then tried to cut him off at the knees.  Yet the Obama campaign remains first class when it comes to
mechanics and money. They will be better organized and have more
resources. And they are likely to have a good target.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 