-- Syrian Opposition Asks Arab League to Forestall Government Attack on Homs
-- B y   Z a i d   S a b a h   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2011-12-26T16:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-25/syrian-opposition-asks-arab-league-to-forestall-government-attack-on-homs.html
Syrian opposition leaders said the
government is carrying out a full-scale assault on the city of
Homs and urged the  Arab League  to intervene.  Army tank shells demolished 20 homes in one district of the
city, killing about 45 people and wounding 245 people in the
past five days, Al Arabiya reported, citing activists. The Arab
League denied a report by the television channel that President
Bashar al-Assad’s security forces wounded a member of its
delegation in  Syria , according to  Egypt ’s state-run Middle East
News Agency.  The Syrian National Council, an umbrella opposition
movement, said in a statement yesterday that 4,000 Syrian
soldiers were massing at the city. Burhan Ghalioun, leader of
the organization seeking to topple Assad, told Al Arabiya today
that government forces are “annihilating” civilians in Homs.  “Residents are calling for help and warning of the
imminent danger they face if the Arab League does not
immediately send its observers there,” the council said.  Ambassadors to Syria should visit the city to witness “the
crimes” carried out by the Assad’s security forces, Ghalioun
told  Al Arabiya . France asked Arab League monitors to visit Homs
today,  Agence France-Presse  reported.  Monitors Arrive  Assad says the unrest is caused by foreign provocateurs.
“Armed terrorist groups” assaulted Syrian security forces,
killing one officer and wounding eight in the Daraa province
clashes, state-run Syrian Arab News Agency reported today. The
authorities seized weapons, uniforms, explosives and cell phones
with Libyan operators, the agency said.  Arab League officials arrived in Syria on Dec. 22 to
prepare for the monitoring of an agreement aimed at ending nine
months of violence. The organization imposed sanctions on the
country, and Syria agreed to allow in the observers only after
its fellow Arab countries threatened to seek United Nations
intervention. The UN has estimated that more than 5,000 people
have been killed in the uprising.  “The world shouldn’t stand and watch the bodies of men,
women and children,” Ghalioun had said earlier in a televised
speech urging the Arab League to involve the UN. “This barbaric
massacre must stop now.”  Ghalioun again blamed the government of Assad for suicide
bombings on Dec. 23 that the state-run news says killed 44
people. “We have no doubt the regime is responsible,” he said.  The agency on the day of the bombings said the attacks
carried “the blueprints of al-Qaeda.” The government has
blamed “terrorists” and foreign provocateurs for fomenting the
anti-government protests.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zaid Sabah Abd Alhamid in Washington at 
 zalhamid@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  