-- Lugar Says Tea Party Could Cost Senate Republican Majority
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2011-12-25T17:31:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-25/lugar-tea-party-could-lose-senate-majority.html
Tea Party  supporters that helped the
Republicans win a U.S. House majority last year also prevented
the party from taking control of the Senate and could do it
again in 2012, Senator  Richard Lugar  said.  Lugar, 79, an Indiana Republican, said his seat could be in
danger if he loses a primary next year to state Treasurer
Richard Mourdock, who is backed by Tea Party groups. U.S.
Representative Joe Donnelly is seeking the Democratic nod.  “Republicans who are running for re-election ought to be
supported by people who want to see that majority,” Lugar said
today on CNN’s “State of the Union.”  Lugar characterized the Tea Party groups as “very
conservative Republicans” and said that he had “a very
conservative voting record” in the Senate deserving of their
support.  His campaign website touts his opposition to President
Barack Obama’s health-care law, which provides coverage for
millions of uninsured Americans, and his support for a national
 sales tax  instead of the progressive income tax that requires
the wealthy to pay more.  He mentioned Nevada and Colorado as two states where Tea
Party-backed Senate candidates won Republican primaries last
year before losing the general election to Democratic
incumbents. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid defeated former
state legislator Sharron Angle in Nevada and Senator Michael Bennett beat county prosecutor Ken Buck in Colorado.  ‘Killed Off’ Chances  “There were people who claim that they wanted somebody who
was more of their Tea Party aspect, but in doing so they killed
off the Republican chances for majority,” Lugar said. “This is
one of the reasons we have a minority in the Senate right now.”  Mourdock, 60, is backed by a coalition of Tea Party groups,
Hoosiers for a Conservative Senate. He also has the support of
the political action committee of FreedomWorks, the Tea Party-
aligned group led by former House Majority Leader  Dick Armey  of
Texas.  Mourdock’s campaign website criticizes Lugar for supporting
the Troubled Asset Relief Program, passed under Republican
President  George W. Bush  to bail out the financial industry; and
for supporting federal aid for  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler
Group LLC, an Obama administration program that saved both
companies.  Democrats now hold a 53-47 edge in the Senate, including
two independents who caucus with them.  Through Sept. 30, Lugar’s campaign had $3.8 million in the
bank, compared with $291,640 for Mourdock, Federal Election
Commission reports show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 