-- ‘Alpine’ Taxes, Muni Crack-Down, TARP, Spain: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-06-12T12:24:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/-alpine-taxes-muni-crack-down-tarp-sale-spain-compliance.html
About 2,400 people with bank
accounts in Liechtenstein have agreed to disclose unpaid tax
owed to the U.K., the revenue and customs office said.  Mostly wealthy individuals with accounts in the Alpine
nation have so far paid 363 million pounds ($564 million)
following the introduction of a disclosure facility that aims to
raise as much as 3 billion pounds by 2016, the revenue office
said. Both nations were expected to sign a double taxation
agreement yesterday.  The clampdown comes amid a request for information from the
U.S., which is targeting lawyers, accountants, financial
advisers, asset managers and those responsible for professional
asset protection.  Under pressure from the U.S.,  Germany  and France,
Liechtenstein said in March 2009 that it would conform with tax
standards set out by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation
and Development to avoid being blacklisted as a tax haven.  Compliance Policy  Municipal-Bond Regulators Crack Down on Disclosure Enforcement  Municipal-bond regulators are checking to ensure that
securities underwriters comply with obligations requiring
issuers to meet disclosure obligations, officials said at a
government-finance conference.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority in the past two weeks began asking
underwriters in the $3.7 trillion market to review whether
municipalities provided required disclosures when selling bonds,
according to Leslie Norwood, vice president of the  Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association .  The SEC has made clear that disclosure must improve in the
municipal-bond market, where issuers sometimes produce financial
reports late, provide incomplete information or don’t make it
available at all. In March, regulators said they would begin
checking on whether dealers have been making sure their clients
comply, Norwood said.  Under securities law, municipal borrowers don’t have to
provide financial and other information, yet their underwriter
banks are required to put language in bond documents that forces
the issuers to meet disclosure guidelines.  Some dealers didn’t maintain and didn’t require issuers to
maintain adequate written evidence that they complied with
disclosure obligations, according to  the March alert  sent by the
SEC. Failure to comply with due diligence on its obligation can
lead to violations of anti-fraud provisions of securities laws
and other SEC and Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board rules,
the alert said.  Spanish Banks May Be Offered EFSF Bonds, European Official Says  The euro region’s temporary bailout fund may help Spanish
banks by giving them bonds that could be used as collateral, a
step used to help Greek lenders since April, a European official
said.  Should Spain request help from the European Financial
Stability Facility, the fund could potentially transfer new
bonds to the country’s FROB rescue program, said the official,
who spoke on terms of anonymity because an application has yet
to be made. The program would then transfer the bonds to Spanish
banks in exchange for shares, while FROB would remain liable for
the debt. Greek banks have used the debt as collateral that can
be deposited at the  European Central Bank  to raise cash.  The move would allow the Spanish government to channel aid
directly to its bank rescue facility without drawing on market
issuance to recapitalize the lenders, said the official.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government said yesterday
that Spain’s bailout program should draw from the ESM, which
offers preferred seniority in insolvency proceedings and is
prefinanced through its own cash reserves.  EU Criticized With U.S. for Bank Rules Weaker Than Basel III  The U.S., European Union and Japan may fail to fully
implement  bank-capital rules  drawn up to prevent a repeat of the
2008 financial crisis, global watchdogs warned.  International teams of regulators have found weaknesses in
the nations’ implementing measures for the so-called Basel III
standards, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision said
yesterday in a statement on its website.  Preliminary assessments of the EU, the U.S. and Japan
“have identified areas of divergence” with the Basel accord,
the group said. There are “key areas where domestic
implementation may be weaker than the globally agreed
standards.”  Nations face a January 2013 deadline set by the Basel
committee for implementing the new rules, which more than triple
the core capital that lenders must have to stave off insolvency,
and require banks to build up buffers of easy-to-sell assets.
The measures were published by the group in 2010.  Yesterday’s report sets out preliminary findings by the
review teams, which plan further “on site” visits by the end
of July, the group said.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Treasury Begins Auction of Preferred Stock in Seven TARP Banks  The U.S. Treasury Department announced the beginning of
public offerings to sell preferred stock from seven banks in the
Troubled Asset Relief Program.  The Treasury said in a statement it would conduct auctions
on  Ameris Bancorp (ABCB)  of Moultrie, Georgia;  Farmers Capital Bank
Corp. (FFKT)  of Frankfort, Kentucky; First Capital Bancorp Inc. of  Glen
Allen , Virginia;  First Defiance Financial Corp. (FDEF)  of Defiance,
Ohio;  LNB Bancorp Inc. (LNBB)  of Lorain, Ohio;  Taylor Capital Group (TAYC) ,
Inc. of Rosemont, Illinois; and  United Bancorp Inc. (UBMI)  of Ann
Arbor, Michigan.  The stock offerings were scheduled to begin yesterday at
8:30 a.m. and are expected close tomorrow, the Treasury said.  Bankers Cite ‘Confusion’ Over Federal Reserve Stress Test  A group of U.S. bankers that advises the  Federal Reserve 
urged supervisors last month to reduce the “uncertainty and
confusion” posed by the most recent test of banks’ ability to
weather financial turmoil.  Members of the  Federal Advisory Council  said the
uncertainty was generated by the “significant differences”
between the analysis used by the Fed in its  stress-test  models
and those used by participating banks, said the memo describing
the May 11 meeting released today by the Fed.  “Those disparities place bank boards in a highly
vulnerable position,” the memo said. “Board members are
literally compelled to ‘fly blind,’ in effect guessing about
high-stakes capital distribution decisions that can tip the
balance between the success of passing” the stress test and
“the market punishment associated with failure.”  Tension between banks and regulators has grown as agencies
begin to implement new rules under the Dodd-Frank Act requiring
banks to raise capital, curtail risk and rein in compensation.
The Fed in March completed its most recent stress test, which it
calls the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review, and
published its own test results for the 19 largest U.S. financial
institutions.  For more, click here.  Nomura Faces Regulatory Action on Insider Information Leaks  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  may face “severe action” by Japanese
regulators after employees of the country’s biggest securities
firm leaked insider information, Financial Services Minister
Tadahiro Matsushita said.  Matsushita made the remarks at a news conference today in
Tokyo. He didn’t elaborate on the types of action the Financial
Services Agency may take, saying it depends on the outcome of
the investigation.  Nomura said last week that employees gave non-public
information used for  insider trading  in 2010, acknowledging for
the first time their role in cases being examined by regulators.
The  Securities Exchange and Surveillance Commission , the FSA’s
watchdog arm, has since March recommended penalizing the
companies that profited from the tips while stopping short of
punishing the underwriters who provided them.  The investigation centers on trading of shares of Japanese
companies before they announced equity offerings in 2010.
Employees at Nomura, a manager of stock sales by  Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. (8411) ,  Inpex Corp. (1605)  and  Tokyo Electric Power Co., (9501) 
provided information on the stock sales.  Nomura repeated its regret over the leaks today. “We
continue to cooperate fully in the ongoing inspection by the
commission,” the Tokyo-based bank said in a statement.  Merrill Singapore Unit Pays S$27,000 Monetary Authority Penalty  Bank of America Corp .’s Merrill Lynch unit in Singapore
paid a penalty of S$27,000 ($21,034 dollars) after 90
representatives conducted fund management activities before
their names were entered in a public register, the  Monetary
Authority of Singapore  said in a  statement  on its website dated
yesterday.  The offenses occurred between November 2010 and August
2011, according to the authority.  Merrill Lynch has put policies in place to prevent a
recurrence.  Courts  Defunct Swift Trade Appeals $12 Million FSA Market-Abuse Penalty  Defunct trading firm Swift Trade Inc. appealed a decision
by the U.K. Financial Services Authority to fine it 8 million
pounds ($12.4 million) for market abuse.  The company, which was dissolved in December 2010, appealed
the penalty at a London tribunal yesterday and said that the
fine was “entirely disproportionate” to its activities.  Lawyers for Toronto-based Swift Trade said in written
arguments said the penalty was “fundamentally flawed from the
outset” because the “market-abuse legislation does not apply
at all to ‘synthetic product trading.’”  Swift Trade was fined for engaging in “layering,” in
which multiple buy orders for shares are submitted and withdrawn
to manipulate the price of a security, according to the judge.  The  Ontario Securities Commission  also found that Swift
Trade breached securities laws by providing software and an
electronic trading system for around 4,500 unregistered traders
in 2008, according to a 2011  report .  Amgen Gets High Court Review of Class-Action Stock Fraud Suit  The U.S. Supreme Court will decide whether investors must
prove that misinformation from  Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  propped up its stock
price before they can pursue a class-action stock-fraud suit
against the world’s largest biotechnology company.  The justices yesterday agreed to review an appeal by Amgen
in a case alleging the company and its executives misled
investors for more than three years about safety questions
involving its Aranesp and Epogen anemia drugs.  Amgen says a federal appeals court ruling makes it too easy
to mount class-action lawsuits representing thousands of people,
pressuring companies to pay settlements for even frivolous
allegations rather than risk huge damages in a trial. Amgen’s
appeal is backed by the U.S.  Chamber of Commerce  and the
pharmaceutical industry’s trade group.  All sides agree that the investors alleging  securities
fraud  must, at some point, show that misrepresentations by Amgen
had an effect on its share price.  The company says judges should resolve disputes about the
relevance of misleading information before letting multiple
investors band together in a class-action suit.  The justices will hear arguments in the case during the
term that begins in October.  The case is Amgen v. Connecticut Retirement Plans and Trust
Funds, 11-1085.  Allergan Holders Can Proceed With Botox Suit, Judge Rules  Allergan Inc. (AGN)  investors can seek to hold directors
responsible for criminal sanctions and a $600 million penalty
that the maker of the wrinkle smoother Botox was ordered to pay
for marketing the drug for unapproved uses, a judge ruled.  Two pension funds who contend that Allergan’s board failed
to properly oversee executives who marketed Botox for ailments
that hadn’t been approved by regulators have amassed enough
evidence about the illegal sales effort to proceed with their
claims, Delaware Chancery Court Judge Travis Laster concluded
yesterday.  The funds’ allegations “support a reasonable inference
that the board consciously approved a business plan predicated
on violating the federal statutory prohibition against off-label
marketing,” Laster said in his 82-page ruling.  Botox, Allergan’s best-selling product, had $1.59 billion
in sales last year, about half for cosmetic uses and half for
migraine treatment, incontinence and other conditions.  Bonnie Jacobs, a spokeswoman for Allergan, declined to
comment on Laster’s ruling. “At this point, we haven’t fully
reviewed the ruling,” she said in an e-mailed statement.  Allergan’s marketing efforts have been the focus of
scrutiny since 2007.  The case is Louisiana Municipal Police Employees Retirement
System and UFCW Local 1776 & Participating Employers Pension
Fund v. Pyott, 5795, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  Innospec Ex-CEO Jennings Pleads Guilty to U.K. Bribe Charges  Former  Innospec Ltd. (IOSP)  Chief Executive Officer Paul Jennings
pleaded guilty yesterday to trying to bribe Indonesian and Iraqi
government officials to win contracts.  Dennis Kerrison, another former CEO at the company, and
Miltos Papachristos, the former regional sales director for the
Asia-Pacific region at Innospec, both pleaded not guilty to a
charge brought by the U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office of attempting
to bribe Indonesian officials to win contracts to supply the
fuel additive tetraethyl lead. The pleas were entered at a
hearing yesterday at a London criminal court and Kerrison and
Papachristos will face trial next year.  Kerrison, of Surrey, England, was CEO of the company under
its previous name, Octel Corp., according to the SFO. The
charges cover a period from 2002 until 2008.  Innospec, a producer of fuel additives and specialty
chemicals, agreed to pay more than $40 million in fines after
pleading guilty in the U.K. and U.S. in 2010 to paying bribes
overseas to secure sales contracts.  Interviews  Kelleher Focuses on Taxpayer Protection in Bank Rules  Dennis Kelleher, chief executive officer of  Better Markets ,
a nonpartisan markets watchdog organization, talked about the
role of financial market regulatory changes in reducing risks to
taxpayers.  Kelleher spoke with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s
“In the Loop.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  U.K. Financial Conduct Authority Names Griffith-Jones Chairman  John Griffith-Jones is the non-executive chairman designate
of the Financial Conduct Authority, or FCA, the U.K. Treasury
said yesterday in a statement on its website.  He will participate in the creation of the new agency, the
government said in the statement.  The FCA will be one of two new agencies formed in the U.K.
that will replace the Financial Services Authority beginning in
2013.  Griffith-Jones is chairman of KPMG in the U.K., the
government said in the statement. He is expected to join the FSA
board Sept. 1 as “a non-executive director and Deputy Chair”
and participate fully in governance, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 