-- ‘Crouching Tiger’ Actress Sues for Libel Over Bo Xilai Sex Claim
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2012-06-12T05:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/-crouching-tiger-actress-sues-for-libel-over-bo-xilai-sex-claim.html
“Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon”
star Zhang Ziyi sued two media outlets for defamation over
stories alleging she received millions of  yuan  to have sex with
suspended Politburo member Bo Xilai and other Chinese leaders.  Zhang suffered “immense grievance and distress” because
of the stories, which she denied, her lawyers said in the
complaint filed yesterday at the  High Court  of  Hong Kong . The
actress is seeking unspecified libel damages.  The suit named Apple Daily Ltd., Next Magazine Publishing
Ltd., and their top editors over stories that Zhang was paid 700
million yuan ($110 million) over 10 years to have sex with Bo,
“unnamed high government officials” and other rich people. The
suit also denied allegations in the stories that Zhang was
questioned as part of a government investigation into Bo and was
barred from leaving  China .  The stories, published in May, “are seriously defamatory
of and concerning the plaintiff and are false,” the lawsuit
said. Zhang has “been subjected to public odium, hatred,
contempt or ridicule,” it said.  Zhang is seeking an injunction to stop the republication of
the stories from the two outlets, which are owned by  Next Media
Ltd. (282)  Company Chairman Jimmy Lai declined to comment, his
assistant Samantha Fung said in a phone interview.  Bo was ousted as Communist Party secretary of the
municipality of Chongqing and suspended from China’s Politburo
after his wife was arrested on suspicion she was involved in the
murder of a British businessman. Bo has not been seen in public
since the end of the National People’s Congress in Beijing in
mid-March.  The actress starred in movies including “Rush Hour 2” and
“House of Flying Daggers,” and was nominated for a Golden
Globe Award for her role in “Memoirs of a Geisha.” Zhang also
filed a separate lawsuit against a news website in the U.S., the
 South China Morning Post  reported today.  The case is Zhang Ziyi and Apple Daily Ltd., Cheung Kim-
hung, Next Magazine Publishing Ltd., Li Chi-ho, HCA1002/2012 in
the Hong Kong Court of First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  