-- ‘Wicked’ Witch, Neuberger Exec Create BroaderWay Camp
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-06-12T15:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/-wicked-witch-neuberger-exec-create-broaderway-camp.html
Julissa Nunez’s to-do list for
August includes learning how to ride a bicycle and begin writing
her first novel.  The 12-year-old shared her goals last month while sitting
in a circle with two dozen other seventh-grade girls at the
 Young Women’s Leadership School , a Harlem public school. They’re
headed for  Camp BroaderWay , a Lenox, Massachusetts, performing
arts experiment run primarily by a close-knit crew of mothers
who work in theater and finance.  “It’s important to identify what your dreams are so you
can map out how to get there,” Jeanine Tesori, the composer of
the musicals “Caroline, or Change” and “Shrek,” told the
girls. Tesori is the camp’s music director and resident
composer.  Held free of charge to the girls, BroaderWay is based at a
camp called  Belvoir Terrace . It runs 12 days beginning Aug. 8,
the day after Belvoir Terrace’s $10,700-six-and-a-half-week
summer session ends.  Idina Menzel , who originated the roles of Maureen in
“Rent” and Elphaba in “Wicked” on Broadway, conceived the
camp two years ago with her husband, actor Taye Diggs, and their
friend Heather Zuckerman, chief administrative officer of the
money manager Neuberger Berman LLC. Zuckerman roomed with Menzel
when they were undergraduates at  New York  University.  World Changers  “I thought I would change the world and the reality of
$120,000 of  student loans  kicked in,” said Zuckerman, an urban
studies major who also attended law school at NYU. “We realized
we were finally in a position to do something.”  Among the volunteer recruits are Mindy Gabler, who works in
private equity at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and who has a daughter at
the Ethical Culture School with Zuckerman’s kids. The 31 girls
at the first BroaderWay session last August are scheduled to
return, with no newcomers and no boys.  “Girls are more likely to make themselves vulnerable and
explore their own issues if they’re not trying to impress
boys,” said Menzel, who credits six summers at Camp Olympus in
the Catskill Mountains with nurturing her passion for the arts.  More Assertive  At the reunion and planning session last month, many of the
girls said they hope to become more assertive at the camp.  “My goal is to be more confident and not be scared of my
fears,” said a girl named Jennifer.  “My goal is to come out of my shell,” said Katherine.  “My goal is to be more active and not be so shy,” said
Jazmin.  Julissa said staff members at the camp, including
professional dancers and choreographers, encouraged the girls to
be creative and spontaneous. For many, it was their first trip
away from home and the city. Activities ranged from swimming and
tennis lessons to sculpture classes and rehearsals for a concert
they wrote and performed at  Columbia University ’s  Miller Theatre 
the day they returned.  “Before you go onstage,” Julissa said she was instructed,
“breathe, relax and just try to have fun and express yourself.
Don’t be afraid to make a mistake. And if you make a mistake,
don’t make it obvious.”  Two Manhattan power couples recently held fundraisers for
the camp: Ann Rubenstein Tisch, who founded the Harlem school,
and Andrew Tisch, co-chairman of  Loews Corp. (L) ; and Thomas H. Lee,
the private equity manager, and his wife, Ann Tenenbaum. There’s
ambition to grow, within limits.  “We have philanthropy friends who want to see numbers,”
Menzel said. “That’s how you get money. But that doesn’t seem
true to us.  “What makes it special now,” added Menzel, who performs
tonight in  San Antonio ,  Texas , as part of a North American
concert tour, “is the intimacy -- the boutique nature.”  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on dining and  James
S. Russell  on architecture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  