-- A123 Seeks Rebound With Improved Electric-Car Battery
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-06-12T20:24:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/a123-seeks-rebound-with-improved-electric-car-battery.html
A123 Systems Inc. (AONE)  rose 52 percent,
the company’s largest increase, after the maker of electric-car
batteries said it has developed an improved lithium-ion cell
that can cut costs of rechargeable and hybrid vehicles.  The “nanophosphate EXT” cells will be produced next year
and can be used longer and operate more efficiently in extremely
high and low temperatures than competing lithium-ion packs, the
company said today. That reduces the need for systems in
electric cars to maintain a consistent battery temperature, said
 David Vieau , A123’s chief executive officer.  “That will eliminate weight, cost, technical complexity,”
Vieau said in a phone interview before today’s announcement.
“That doesn’t solve all the cost issues but it’s a step in the
right direction.”  The company soared to $1.58 at the close in  New York . The
rise was the largest percentage gain since its September 2009
initial public offering. The increase almost wiped out a year-
to-date decline. Shares had tumbled 35 percent this year through
yesterday and are now down 1.9 percent for 2012.  The shares have slid 88 percent since the IPO, when
investors expected A123 to benefit from Obama administration
efforts to create a market for rechargeable autos.  A123 wants to boost demand for its batteries that are also
used in utility grids, telecommunications systems and power
tools after forecasting in a May regulatory filing several
quarters of “significant” losses that raise “substantial
doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern.”  In March, the company said it would spend $55 million
replacing batteries in Fisker Automotive Inc.’s plug-in Karma
sedan, the result of flaws at its Livonia, Michigan, plant.  A123 in August 2009 was awarded $249 million in federal
stimulus grants to produce batteries in Michigan.  ‘Significant Changes’  The company, with  investors  including  General Electric Co. (GE) 
and Japanese heavy machinery maker  IHI Corp. (7013) , has been
developing the new cells for several years, Vieau said. Since
its March announcement, Waltham, Massachusetts-based A123 has
also revamped factory operations, he said.  “We did not do a good job in the last 15 months in our
Michigan facility on our cell ramp-up and it’s cost us dearly,”
he said. “We’ve gone through significant changes in personnel
and procedures, and we’ve brought the plant up much more slowly
this year and we’re confident.”  The new lithium-ion cells can be produced at a cost similar
to A123’s current nanophosphate chemistry, he said, without
elaborating. The company declined to say how much it charges
automakers for its battery packs.  A123’s Competition  The performance of the new cell chemistry was validated
against competitors by Ohio State University’s Center for
Automotive Research, said Yann Guezennec, who led the review.  “The technology is clearly a game changer,” Guezennec
said in an e-mail.  A123 has to compete on cost and quality with larger, more
experienced battery makers, including Japan’s  Panasonic Corp. (6752) ’s
Sanyo Electric, Hitachi Ltd. and  GS Yuasa Corp. (6674)  and South
Korea’s  LG Chem Ltd. (051910)  and Samsung Electronics Co., said Menahem Anderman, president of Total Battery Consulting Inc., in Oregon
House, California.  A123’s ability to make the new cells efficiently is
essential because manufacturing is where the company has failed,
he said.  “If it can be reproduced in high volume without affecting
the cost, it could certainly be significant,” Anderman said.  Compared with its Japanese and Korean counterparts, the
U.S. company is “far from competitive in manufacturing,” he
said.  Reassuring Automakers  In addition to Fisker, A123 supplies batteries for General
Motors Co.’s Spark electric car;  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s
BMW 5 Series hybrid sedan; rechargeable and hybrid cars from
China’s  SAIC Motor Corp. (600104) ; buses made by  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Volvo AB (VOLVB) ;
and delivery trucks built by  Smith Electric Vehicles Corp. (SMTH)   Along with regaining investor confidence, A123 and other
lithium-ion cell companies are seeking to reassure automakers
they can deliver batteries with promised quality and cost
levels.  “We do get exposed to a lot of the upcoming advancements
in battery technology,” Elon Musk, co-founder and chief
executive officer of  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , said June 6 at the
electric-car maker’s shareholder meeting in Mountain View,
California.  Tesla, which begins delivering its battery-powered Model S
sedan on June 22, isn’t an A123 customer.  “There are few industries with more BS than the battery
industry,” Musk said of battery makers, without elaborating.
“It’s quite remarkable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  