-- AAU Forbids One-on-0ne Adult-Youth Contact After Abuse Inquiry
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-06-12T15:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/aau-forbids-one-on-0ne-adult-youth-contact-after-abuse-inquiry.html
The  Amateur Athletic Union  is banning
all one-on-one contact between adults and youths as part of
steps to prevent abuse following allegations last year that a
former president of the group molested two basketball players.  The organization, which says it has 500,000 youth
participants, released the policy today after a review by two
independent task forces. The studies were implemented after two
former athletes said the group’s one-time president, Bobby Dodd,
63, abused them in the 1980s when they were 12 and 16. Dodd has
denied the allegations and no formal charges have been brought
against him.  In addition to the ban on one-on-one contact, the AAU will
require that all adults -- from volunteer coaches to the
organization’s staff -- have detailed background checks, and
that all volunteers and staff be required to report any
incidents of suspected child abuse to  law enforcement  and to
officials of the AAU and related sports clubs.  “The new steps the AAU is taking will safeguard children
participating in amateur sports across the country, so that we
can continue our proud philosophy of ‘Sports for All, Forever,”
AAU President Louis Stout said in a statement. “These steps are
not being implemented because we suspect anyone -- rather, we
must make these changes because we expect everyone to be willing
to help us build a deeper trust and culture of safety.”  Dodd stepped down in November to undergo colon-cancer
surgery after being the organization’s president since 1992.  The AAU, based in Lake Buena Vista,  Florida , created two
task forces in December -- one of child-safety experts and
another of law-enforcement officials -- to review its policies
for protecting young athletes from sexual predators and for
screening adult volunteers.  Allegations Elsewhere  The organization’s actions came as two high-profile coaches
were accused of sexually abusing children.  Former Penn State assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky
was charged with 52 criminal counts of child sex abuse over a
15-year span. Testimony in his trial started yesterday. Sandusky
has denied any wrongdoing.  Syracuse University men’s assistant basketball coach  Bernie Fine , 65, was fired in November after police initiated an
investigation into allegations he molested two former ball boys.
No charges have been brought and Fine has denied wrongdoing. In
April, Maccabi Bazan Haifa of the Israeli Basketball Super
League hired him as a consultant, according to ESPN.  AAU’s Recommendations  The AAU’s study of its policies resulted in a 31-page
report with 42 recommendations, ranging from education programs
to reporting policies and the banning of people from
participating in AAU activities for breaking the rules.  Stout says the recommendation likely to have the most
immediate impact is the requirement for background screening of
staff and volunteers at the club level. The AAU has contracted
LexisNexis Solutions to conduct background screenings whenever a
coach, volunteer or other individual registers for or renews an
AAU membership. This will begin Sept. 1.  “Every adult who wants to volunteer or wants to be
involved with AAU athletes will be screened,” James Parker,
director of operations for the AAU, said in a statement. “This
screening process will be an effective deterrent to keep the bad
guys away.”  Parker said the new policies will require changes that will
affect the thousands of adults who have done nothing wrong. For
instance, when an athlete is disciplined, the coach will no
longer be allowed to be with the youngster alone. At least two
adults will have to be in the room at all times. Parker said
special emphasis will be placed on this rule when traveling to
AAU competitions.  Adult Screenings  Many national youth organizations have policies that
include background checks and pre-employment screening for
adults.  USA Swimming  promoted Susan Woessner to the role of
athletic protection officer in September 2010, about nine months
after the sentencing of former San Jose-area swim coach Andy
King, who pleaded no-contest to 20 molestation charges and is
serving a 40-year prison sentence.  The swimming governing body used to conduct background
checks on coaches, but expanded that to include any of the
30,000 adults, whether coaches or volunteers, who interact with
youths. It also now requires pre-employment screenings for local
clubs that include reviews of motor-vehicle records and
education and requires clubs to check references. It also lists
the names of coaches and volunteers who have been banned from
the sport.  Little League  Little League Baseball oversees 7,000 leagues worldwide,
with more than 1 million volunteers and more than 2.5 million
players. Every adult, whether a coach or concession-stand
worker, must fill out an application that matches their names
against the national sex-offender registry as part of a
background check. The system has been in place since 2003.  Child sex-abuse cases dropped 55 percent to 65,964 in 2009
from about 150,000 in 1992, according to the  U.S. Department of
Health  and Human Services. A second study mandated by Congress
reported in 2010 that the number of sexually abused children
decreased 38 percent to 135,300 in 2006 from 217,700 in 1993.  The numbers from the second study are larger because it
includes additional data collected by teachers, police officers,
health-care professionals and day-care workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  