-- Lafarge Plans 54% Earnings Boost by 2015 on Debt Strategy
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-06-12T10:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/lafarge-ceo-says-dividend-increase-may-come-as-earnings-grow.html
Lafarge SA (LG) , the world’s largest
cement maker, plans to boost earnings 54 percent by 2015 with
new products and spending reductions as the company works to
reduce debt before raising dividend payments.  The 1.75 billion-euro ($2.2 billion) increase in earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization includes
1.3 billion euros in cost cuts over the period, the Paris-based
company said in a statement today. Lafarge plans to scale back
 debt  to less than 10 billion euros “as soon as possible” in
2013 from 12 billion euros at the end of 2011.  “Results and cash flow are oriented toward debt reduction
in priority,” Chief Executive Officer Bruno Lafont told
journalists in Paris today. “Once our financial structure is
stabilized, we will recoup margins of maneuver for an increase
in dividend and a resumption in investment.” He declined to say
whether Lafarge will raise the payout as early as next year.  Higher raw material prices and slumping demand for
construction products in cash-strapped southern European nations
have prompted Lafont to cut spending as he seeks to repair a
 credit rating  that has fallen below investment grade. Ebitda
fell 8 percent to 3.22 billion euros in 2011, and Lafarge cut
its  dividend  in half for a second year in a row.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s second-largest cement company,
presented a plan last month to boost earnings by $1.6 billion by
the end of 2014, mainly by streamlining purchases and logistics
and putting assets up for sale.  Stock Rises  Lafarge  rose  as much as 3.2 percent to 31.63 euros and was
trading 1.6 percent higher at 12:36 p.m. in Paris. The stock has
gained 15 percent this year, valuing the company at 8.94 billion
euros.  The cement maker’s strategy “confirms our base-case
scenario, i.e. that the company could return to an investment
grade early in 2015, but not before,” Caroline Brugere, an
analyst at  Credit Agricole  in Paris, said in a research note.  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service cut the
company’s  credit rating  to junk status in 2011 as its  financial
ratios  deteriorated after global industry growth slowed just as
Lafarge was integrating Orascom’s cement operations, which it
bought in 2008 for $15 billion.  Lafarge plans to increase its ratio of cash from operations
to net debt to 28 percent or more no later than in 2015 from 13
percent last year, the company said today.  Debt Targets  The French cement maker, which reduced  debt  by 2 billion
euros to 12 billion euros last year, will sell at least 1
billion euros of assets this year, shrink capital expenditure by
400 million euros, and reduce costs by 400 million euros, Lafont
said today. He reiterated Lafarge’s forecasts for 2012.  Lafarge will cuts costs by another 350 million euros in
2013 by streamlining back-office operations, making logistics
and plants more efficient and reducing energy use, Lafont said.  Increased sales of new products with higher  margins ,
development of recycling services and licensing and other
actions to lift revenue will boost Ebitda by 450 million euros
by 2015, the company said.  “We will reinforce our positions without needing to make a
large acquisition,” and Lafarge will favor extending existing
plants rather than building new facilities, the CEO said. “We
now have a very good portfolio” of business, with 57 percent of
revenue coming from  emerging markets .  Lafarge can reach 2015 targets “even in an environment
that wouldn’t be better than today,” Lafont said. Lafarge’s
 operations  in  Greece  aren’t in a “catastrophic” situation, as
the company is cutting costs, choosing customers more
selectively, managing bills more stringently and developing
exports.  Lafarge may proceed with sales of assets in the U.K. in
coming weeks to gain regulatory approval for the merger of its
local operations with  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s British quarries and
aggregate plants, Lafont said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Francois de Beaupuy at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  