-- Thai Mills to Boost Refined Sugar Output as Premium Climbs
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-06-12T10:47:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/thai-mills-seen-boosting-refined-sugar-output-as-premium-climbs.html
Millers in  Thailand , the world’s
second-largest exporter, are increasing production of refined
sugar after the premium over the raw variety soared, according
to the country’s biggest shipper.  The refined premium climbed 62 percent in 2012, reaching
the highest in almost a year,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.
Demand from the  Middle East  and North Africa, combined with the
end of the crop in the European Union and a delay to harvesting
in top producer  Brazil , are limiting supplies of the refined or
white sweetener, according to Naim Beydoun, a broker at Rolle,
Switzerland-based Swiss Sugar Brokers.  “Prices of white sugar are attractive, drawing some mills
to buy raws to re-melt them into the white variety,” Piromsak Sasunee, chief executive officer at the Thai Sugar Trading
Corp., said in an interview yesterday in Bangkok.  The refined price has also been bolstered by demand from
Muslim nations before the fasting month of Ramadan, Piromsak
said. Ramadan begins next month. White sugar was $142.83 a
metric ton more expensive than raws by 11:21 a.m.  London  time.
Yesterday the premium was $143.27 a ton, the most since July 1,
according to the data.  “The strength of the white premium is self-explanatory; EU
sugar supply is almost inexistent,” Beydoun said in a report.
Whatever remained has been earmarked to destination sales in the
Middle East and North Africa, he said.  Thai Sugar Premiums  The re-melting of raw sugar into refined will help boost
the premium paid to obtain raws from Thailand in the physical
market. Premiums have been rising because Chinese buyers raised
purchases over the past two weeks, according to Paul Bannister,
head of the sugar brokerage at Marex Spectron Group in London.  Buyers of Thai raw sugar for June loading were paying a
premium of 1.80 cents to 2.50 cents a pound to the July contract
on the ICE Futures U.S. exchange in  New York  on June 10, Swiss
Sugar Brokers data show. That compares with premiums of 1.7
cents a pound on May 5 and 1.35 cents on April 29.  Prospects of delayed crops in Brazil will also help drive
the Thai raw sugar premium higher, Piromsak said. Rainfall in
Brazil’s main growing area is delaying the harvest and creating
a backlog of vessels at ports. The amount of sugar waiting to be
loaded at ports in Brazil climbed 37 percent in a week,
according to June 6 data from Williams Servicos Maritimos Ltda.  For the moment, offers of refined sugar from Thailand are
“tight” because of logistical constraints and because white
sugar delivered against the expired May contract on the NYSE
Liffe exchange in London is still being loaded, Beydoun said.  Thailand may export about 2.3 million tons of white sugar
this year, Piromsak said. Shipments of the raw variety are
estimated at 5.5 million tons, he added. More than 80 percent of
the sugar to be exported has already been sold, he said.  “Thailand should be able to take more share from Brazil as
the country is located near importing nations in  Asia ,”
Piromsak said, adding that demand for Thai sugar was strong,
especially from  Indonesia ,  Japan  and  South Korea .  White sugar for August delivery slid 0.2 percent to $586.40
a ton in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  