-- Alcatel’s Camus Calls for Phone-Industry Consolidation
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-06-13T07:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/alcatel-s-camus-calls-for-phone-industry-consolidation.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  Chairman Philippe Camus said  Europe  needs to drop its anti-merger position and
instead push telecommunications companies to share spending and
expertise in research and networks.  The former head of  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. (EAD) , who has led Alcatel-Lucent’s board since 2008, said the
 aerospace industry  should serve as a model on how to promote
cooperation, as governments look for ways to help Europe regain
its lost edge in technology.  “Europe needs to do more to promote and less to repress,”
Camus, 63, said in an interview at Alcatel-Lucent’s Paris
headquarters. “It’s not about pouring money in, it’s about
allowing and encouraging companies to adopt common standards,
co-invest in research and develop products together.”  Camus joins executives from  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  France
Telecom  SA in calling on regulators to allow more consolidation,
as carriers slow network spending and look for ways to boost
profitability by sharing costs. Alcatel-Lucent, which is trying
to avoid slumping back to losses after its first annual profit
in six years, would benefit from a healthier telecommunications
industry as it seeks to sell more  network equipment  to Europe’s
phone companies.  Tower of Babel  The region has fallen at least two years behind the U.S. in
deploying infrastructure such as high-speed fiber and fourth-
generation mobile networks, Camus said. The executive, who
splits his time between  France  and the U.S., said he uses his
4G-enabled  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  Galaxy smartphone to download
videos at ultra-high speeds in the U.S., and switches back to
his  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhone in France.  “The U.S. market has consolidated, while Europe has become
the Tower of Babel,” Camus said. “We’re late on 4G and we’ve
got no project in fiber. That’s a handicap, especially in a bad
macroeconomic context.”  In a fragmented market, European governments need to help
coordinate investment efforts, following the example set in the
aerospace industry, Camus said. Camus was co-chief executive
officer of EADS, the parent of Airbus SAS, when it was created
in 2000 as Europe’s response to Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA) ,
through the merger of German, French and Spanish assets.  Aerospace Lessons  That attempt at pan-European consolidation was far from
complete. Earlier ambitions to include Britain’s powerful
defense companies in an industry-wide consolidation collapsed
after British Aerospace Plc merged with GEC Marconi to form BAE
Systems, spurning the Germans, and turned toward the U.S. market
for business.  EADS failed several times to manage links with  Thales SA (HO) ,
France’s biggest defense company. And even after the French
state gave EADS a 46 percent stake of combat-jet maker  Dassault
Aviation SA (AM) , Dassault continues to compete head-on with EADS.  Camus said Europe needs to define and implement long-term
investment plans in networks and research and development,
involving carriers like Vodafone, Deutsche Telekom AG and France
Telecom, and their network suppliers, including Alcatel-Lucent,
Ericsson AB and Nokia Siemens Networks.  Alcatel-Lucent rose as much as 1.5 percent in Paris to 1.24
euros and was up 1.2 percent as of 9:13 a.m. while France
Telecom gained 0.3 percent. Vodafone gained 0.4 percent in
London and Deutsche Telekom AG climbed 0.5 percent in  Frankfurt .  Several European telecommunications companies are
considering combinations to rein in costs amid slowing growth
and intensifying competition.  Telefonica, KPN  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and Royal  KPN NV (KPN)  are weighing a merger of
their German businesses, according to people familiar with the
matter, a deal potentially worth $20 billion. Members of
Deutsche Telekom’s supervisory board have discussed how to
deepen the cooperation with France Telecom, according to a
person familiar with the situation.  While some European phone-industry mergers have won
approval -- including France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom
combining their U.K. networks in 2010 -- a number of deals have
faltered in the face of regulatory opposition.  Vodafone in February abandoned its attempt to combine its
Greek unit with Wind Hellas. European regulators were concerned
about creating a market with only two operators, a person said
at the time. Switzerland’s regulators in 2010 rejected France
Telecom’s plan to merge its Swiss unit with that of TDC A/S.  In their U.K. pact, France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom
cited the potential to save more than 4 billion euros ($5
billion) in network, marketing and administrative costs by 2014.
That deal, cutting the number of network operators in the
country from five to four, paved the way for joint procurement
projects and network sharing across all their markets.  Approaching Limits  France’s new Industry Minister,  Arnaud Montebourg ,
discussed the idea of combining France Telecom with its German
counterpart at a June 4 meeting with the French operator’s CEO
Stephane Richard, Journal du Dimanche reported on June 10. In an
interview yesterday, Deutsche Telekom’s head of Germany said
such a combination would create little value and be difficult to
manage.  “I’m not sure there are many advantages for both parties
because you get to limits,” Niek Jan van Damme said in Cologne.
“The management of a bigger network normally has more
challenges than a smaller network.”  The European carriers’ slowing spending, coupled with
competition from Asian rivals such as Huawei Technologies Co.
and  ZTE Corp. (763) , has pressured earnings at Alcatel-Lucent and its
European rivals. Last year, Alcatel-Lucent posted a profit for
the first time since it was formed through the 2006 merger of
Alcatel SA and Lucent Technologies. Rival Nokia Siemens is
unprofitable, and competitor  Nortel Networks Corp. (NRTLQ)  has
collapsed.  Any decisions about further mergers or strategic
combinations in the equipment-industry should be left for the
companies themselves, rather than regulators, Camus said.  “Those are complicated matters,” Camus said. “It would
be up to the companies to decide, we just have to make sure the
environment permits it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  