-- American Airlines Seeks Court Order to Block Union Vote
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-06-12T18:36:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/american-airlines-seeks-order-blocking-union-election-by-agents.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American Airlines asked
a federal judge to stop a union-representation election
scheduled to take place among passenger service employees at the
carrier.  In a filing yesterday in U.S. District Court in Fort Worth,
Texas, American requested a court order preventing the  National
Mediation Board  from holding what the airline called an
“illegal” election.  American, which sued the board in May over its decision to
order an election, said the agency “completely disregarded that
its very statutory authority to act was at issue” in the
litigation. The board has asked the court to dismiss the
company’s complaint.  “American believes the Court should be able to rule on
whether the NMB’s authorization of the election was legally
permitted, before any election begins,” Missy Cousino, a
spokeswoman for  American Airlines , said in a statement.  The passenger service employees, who take reservations and
work at airports, are set to vote on whether to be represented
by the Communications Workers of America. Voting is scheduled to
begin June 21, according to the union.  ‘Just Un-American’  “The airline is doing everything it can think of to stop
passenger service agents from having the vote they deserve, even
filing court actions based on claims that have been rejected by
lawmakers who wrote the legislation being cited,” CWA
Organizing Director Sandy Rusher said in a statement. “It’s
just un-American.”  A spokesman for the  National Mediation Board , which
facilitates labor-management relations in the U.S. airline and
railway industries, didn’t return a phone message seeking
comment.  The case is American Airlines Inc. v. National Mediation
Board, 12-00276, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas
( Fort Worth ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  