-- Lan-Tam Begins Defending Rank as Brazilian Growth Slows
-- B y   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e   a n d   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-06-12T12:56:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/lan-tam-begins-defending-rank-as-brazilian-growth-slows.html
Tam SA (TAMM4) ’s acquisition by  Lan Airlines
SA (TAM)  is creating the world’s most valuable carrier with a leading
position in Brazil. Now the merger must defend its value as
Brazil becomes  Latin America ’s worst-performing economy.  Lan and Tam, based in Santiago and Sao Paulo, respectively,
will have to adjust to Brazilian economic growth that has fallen
below  Japan ’s as they chase annual savings and new revenue of as
much as $700 million. Lan’s bid to retain the highest  credit
rating  among global carriers may require a cut in dividends,
according to ING Groep NV and Larrain Vial SA.  The transaction’s value surged 24 percent to $3.5 billion
in the almost two years since it was announced while Brazil’s
main index and a gauge of global airlines slumped 29 percent and
27 percent, respectively, in U.S. dollar terms. Lan and Tam’s
combined market value would overtake  Air China Ltd. (753)  as the
world’s biggest, while the tie-up will only be the 12th biggest
in terms of revenue, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Expectations were set too high,” Pedro Balcao-Reis, an
analyst at Banco Santander SA’s Brazilian unit, said by
telephone. “It’s going to be very tough to deliver on that. The
market seems to be excessively benevolent toward them.”  An offer to receive 0.9 Lan share for each Tam stock closed
yesterday, with 94.4 percent of shares tendered, the two
airlines said in regulatory filings today. As acceptances fell
short of a 95 percent threshold that allows Tam to compulsorily
buy back leftover shares, the offer was extended 10 days and
results will be registered June 22 at 10 a.m.  Sao Paulo  time.  Tam will be delisted if owners of at least two-thirds of
the stock from minority holders accept the offer. Tam holders
will receive depositary shares in Latam Airlines Group SA, the
company formed by the merger, within three days.  Efficiency Ranking  Latam’s fleet will be about a quarter the size of Chicago-
based  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The new carrier would retain Lan’s spot
as the 20th most efficient airline with average revenue per
employee of almost a third of leader  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , the data show.  Since the acquisition was announced Aug. 12, 2010, Tam’s
shares have surged 46 percent to 41.51 reais for a total value
of 6.3 billion reais, or $3.07 billion. Lan Airlines is up 0.1
percent to 12,908 pesos, with a market value of $8.74 billion,
while Air  China , based in Beijing, slumped 44 percent to $11
billion and  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  dropped 35 percent to $9.25
billion.  Lan won over  Chile ’s antitrust tribunal in September and
Brazilian regulators in December, for a deal that will give it
almost half of routes in Brazil. With Tam, Lan is gaining an
airline that is 39 percent larger by sales and will give it one
of the leading positions in the biggest emerging market after
China, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Tam had revenue
of $7.8 billion last year compared with Lan’s $5.6 billion.  Slowing Growth  Brazil’s economy will expand 2.5 percent this year amid
softer demand for its exports, according to the median estimate
in a central bank survey of about 100 analysts published
yesterday. Growth was 2.7 percent in 2011, the second-worst
performance since 2003 and the weakest pace among major Latin
American economies,
and 0.2 percent in the first quarter, less than half the pace
analysts predicted, and slower than Japan’s 1 percent expansion.  The deal will probably increase annual operating income
before depreciation and taxes by $600 million to $700 million by
the fourth year, according to a statement on Lan’s website. Of
the total, 40 percent would come from higher passenger sales, 20
percent from cargo and 40 percent from cost reductions.  United Continental struggled to unify union workforces
after the $3.47 billion all-stock combination that promised $1.2
billion in savings and new revenue.  Missing Element  Brazil  was the missing element for Lan given that country’s
foreign ownership restrictions. Because Brazilian law caps
foreign capital in airlines at 20 percent, Tam controlling
shareholders will retain 80 percent of the voting stock of the
Brazilian company while Lan shareholders will own about 70
percent of Latam. Lan’s Enrique Cueto will be chief executive
officer and Tam’s Mauricio Rolim Amaro will be chairman.  Both airlines will continue operating separately with their
own brands, a structure that adds to risks, according to  Robert Mann , president of airline consultancy firm RW Mann & Co. Inc.  “The structure suggests that synergies should be more
modest as it’s not a complete takeover situation so there is a
discount on what can be achieved,” Mann said in a phone
interview from his office in  Port Washington ,  New York .  Raymond James Financial Inc. reiterated “market perform”
ratings for Lan and Tam on June 11 “due to the execution risk
related to the merger, with the required combination of very
different corporate cultures and control structures adding
complexity,” it said in an e-mailed note to clients.  ‘Power War’  “Daily affairs won’t be easy between Chileans and
Brazilians,” said Santander’s Balcao-Reis. “There’s a war for
power brewing among these two families and that won’t be good
for business.”  Tam declined to comment for this story because of a quiet
period before the deal closes, according to an official who
asked not to be identified in compliance with internal policy.
Lan didn’t respond to e-mail and phone requests for comment.  Lan operates a fleet of 135 passenger aircraft and 14
dedicated freighters, while Tam has 156 planes, according to a
joint statement distributed in January.  While Lan has posted annual profits since 1994 and turned
quarterly profits throughout the global financial crisis, Tam
has had annual losses in two of the past four years because of
increased competition and higher fuel prices.  Credit Rating  Another challenge for the combined carrier will be
maintaining Lan’s investment-grade credit rating to contain
borrowing costs as the Santiago-based carrier engages in an $8.9
billion seven-year fleet expansion.  Lan is rated BBB by Fitch Ratings and A- by Chile’s Feller
Rate, a local affiliate of  Standard & Poor’s . The only other
major airline that Fitch rates BBB is  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. S&P also rates  Qantas
Airways (QAN)  Ltd. BBB. Tam is rated B+, four levels below investment
grade, by S&P.  Maintaining ratings would require channeling operating cash
to paying off debt, selling more shares or assets or cutting
dividends, said Eric Conrads, who manages $1 billion at ING in
New York, and Patricia Pellegrini, an analyst at Santiago-based
brokerage Larrain Vial.  “The most logical scenario would be to cut dividends for a
time,” Pellegrini said by telephone yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Sergio Osse in Sao Paulo at 
 josse1@bloomberg.net ;
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net . 