-- Angry Bagmaker Shows China Slowdown Worst in Wenzhou
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-13T02:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/angry-bagmaker-shows-china-slowdown-worst-in-wenzhou.html
Jiang Xiangsong has 18 days to pay a
2 million yuan ($314,000) bank debt or his suitcase company in
eastern  China  will go bankrupt. He’s close to tears as he
realizes his last hope, a government-backed office, won’t help.  “This is totally useless: If I had any collateral, why the
hell would I come here?” he yells at an official in Wenzhou’s
state-run loan service, set up to help small businesses after
rising bankruptcies and suicides prompted Premier  Wen Jiabao  to
visit in October and pledge support.  Wenzhou’s more than 400,000 businesses make everything from
shoes in dusty side streets to synthetic leather in dilapidated
factories, much of it financed by unregulated lenders that
spread during China’s record 2009-10 credit boom. The decline of
so-called shadow banking in the city, triggered by Wen’s move to
rein in a national property bubble, has left Wenzhou bearing the
brunt of the country’s economic slowdown.  China’s plans for a more targeted stimulus than the 4
trillion yuan package unveiled in 2008 ($586 billion at the
time) mean Wenzhou may see little reprieve. Wen’s administration
in March picked the city, five hours by train south of  Shanghai ,
for a trial program designed to boost capital for private
companies, an effort that’s failed to quell locals’ gloom.  “In previous years, it was difficult,” Chen Xijun, a
director at the city’s Chamber of Commerce, said in a June 6
interview in the city. “This year it’s completely dark. We have
no sense of direction where the economy is heading.”  Inventory Buildup  In Wenzhou’s largest shoe market, 70-year-old Lin Yunlai
agrees as he dozes in the booth he has run for two decades.  “This is the worst year,” he said as he waited for
customers to buy sneakers from his half-empty shelves. “This
place used to be packed with buyers from around the country, now
it’s full of unsold shoes.”  Lin plans to sell his remaining 1,000 pairs and shut the
business. The 70,000  yuan  revenue he expects to make this year
won’t cover his 160,000 yuan rent. “I’m done with it,” he
said.  The first place to embrace private enterprise when China
began opening in 1978, Wenzhou lured 2.8 million migrant workers
over the decade following the country’s entry into the  World
Trade Organization  in 2001. Seven out of 10 businesses in the
city rely on exports, mostly in labor-intensive industries,
leaving it vulnerable as  Europe ’s crisis crimps expansion.  Weaker Exports  China’s growth has slowed for five quarters, with gross
domestic product rising 8.1 percent in January-to-March, the
least in almost three years. While exports exceeded forecasts in
May, the pace of gains eased to 9 percent so far this year, from
26 percent in the same period of 2011.  The central bank lowered  interest rates  for the first time
since 2008 on June 7, and cut banks’ reserve ratios for the
third time since late November. The yuan has fallen 1.2 percent
against the dollar this year, trading at 6.3720 per dollar as of
9:54 a.m. in Shanghai today.  The economy’s downshift has been uneven. Guangdong, the
largest exporting province and one that’s focused on upgrading
production to higher-value goods, has seen resilience in its job
market.  Stanley Lau, deputy chairman of the Federation of Hong Kong
Industries, whose members have garment, watch, toy and footwear
plants in Guangdong, said in an interview last week that most
factories are still 5 percent to 10 percent short of workers or
technicians.  Quiet Streets  Back in Wenzhou, a once bustling city center is in decline.  On a recent morning, a single coach pulled out of Wenzhou’s
main long-haul bus station into an almost empty street. A few
years ago, the road was a permanent traffic jam, clogged with
buses and migrant workers arriving from other provinces,
according to Liu, a  taxi driver  who like many people in China
declined to give his full name.  On Wuma Street, the city’s most famous pedestrian shopping
area, three sales staff wait idly for customers in a branch of
the Red Dragonfly shoe chain. Posters advertising 40 percent
discounts show the shop’s annual summer sale of leather sandals
and high heels has started a month early.  Businesses are suffering because of weak demand, higher raw
material costs and rising wages, as well as the breakdown in the
system of unregulated money lenders who fund much of China’s
enterprise, said  Zhou Dewen , head of the Wenzhou Small- and
Medium-size Enterprise Association.  “Wenzhou’s private lending system was built on trust, and
now that trust is gone,” said Zhou. He estimates there is about
1 trillion yuan of idle private capital in the city because
“nobody is willing to lend to others.”  Shadow Banking  As small businesses sought finance to expand, the city of 9
million became one of the nation’s biggest centers for shadow
banks, unregulated lenders that demanded 21.6 percent on loans
in April, compared with 7.6 percent from commercial banks,
according to central bank figures.  Wenzhou had the worst non-performing loan ratio among the
21 cities tracked by  Shenzhen Development Bank Co. (000001)  last quarter.
About 60 business owners fled the city in the first two months
of the year to avoid paying their debts, China Business News
reported. The exodus has continued, said Zhou.  The city was chosen by China’s cabinet in March for a trial
program to broaden funding for private companies, including
setting up the Wenzhou Private Lending Registration Service
Center that rejected Jiang’s application. The office was
designed to help control shadow lending by matching individuals
holding excess capital with small businesses in need of funds.  Pilot Program  “The Wenzhou reform is a worthwhile effort if it could
succeed in overcoming long-standing obstacles for private
capital to enter the state-controlled financial sector,” said
Fred Hu, founder of Primavera Capital Group and former chairman
for  Greater China  at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Since Wenzhou’s private lending service opened on April 26,
40 million yuan of deals have been done, one tenth of the amount
of capital registered, said Chen at the Chamber of Commerce.  Suitcase exporter Jiang, 45, said that before last year he
would have had no problem raising the 2 million yuan he needs
with a few phone calls to friends and fellow businessmen. Now,
nobody answers the phone. Last week, Jiang’s landlord refused to
give him more time to make a payment on the 200,000 yuan rent
for his factory because the landlord himself is short of cash
after closing down his apparel business.  “Everyone around me is struggling,” said Jiang, whose
company’s sales have dropped 60 percent this year.  Wenzhou’s growth moderated to a 5 percent pace last
quarter, the weakest in at least four years. By comparison,
Chongqing, where ousted party boss  Bo Xilai  championed state-led
development, grew 14.4 percent, local government data show.  Limited Plans  With the divergence in the degree of economic weakening,
there’s been little sign policy makers will embrace the type of
credit surge that saw 17.5 trillion yuan in new loans in
2009-10. The State Council in a May statement omitted any
reference to expanding credit, and state-run Xinhua News Agency
reported on May 29 there was no plan to introduce measures on a
2008 scale.  During the boom times in the last decade, Wenzhou drew
migrant workers eager to take part in China’s  economic growth .
Now, the flood of labor has dried up and many are looking
elsewhere for jobs in higher-technology industries that have
been less affected by the slump, or simply plan to return home.  Liu the taxi driver, who came to Wenzhou more than 10 years
ago, said he’s taking his family of four back to Anhui province
next week. Even working more than 12 hours a day, his income has
dropped to a monthly 3,000 yuan, from 5,000 yuan a year ago.
Food takes half his earnings and he can only afford 400 yuan a
month for a cramped apartment, he said.  Giving Up  “This is no longer the city I had dreamed of,” he said.
“No matter how hard I work, I can’t save enough to buy an
apartment here. I’m not coming back.”  Property in Wenzhou remains out of reach for thousands like
Liu even after  home prices  slumped 12.3 percent in April, the
fastest drop in the country. Apartments still cost an average
30,000 yuan per square meter -- the equivalent of the city’s
annual per capita disposable income in 2010, according to the
local government website.  Prices in Majestic Mansion, one of Wenzhou’s most expensive
residential projects and developed by  Greentown China Holdings
Ltd. (3900) , more than doubled to 70,000 yuan a square meter in the
three years after its start in late 2007. Now the price is about
40,000 yuan, according to real estate broker  SouFun Holdings
Ltd. (SFUN)  Soaring national property prices were one effect of the
government’s stimulus plan in 2008.  At the government lending office in Wenzhou, Jiang leaves
empty handed, worrying how he will tell his remaining 30 workers
that he won’t be able to pay them.  “Once the workers are gone, there’s no way to restart the
business even if the market picks up,” he said, his face buried
in his hands. “All the big talk I heard on helping small
businesses here is empty. The government is turning a blind
eye.”  --Jun Luo. With assistance from Kevin Hamlin in Beijing.
Editors: Adam Majendie, Chris Anstey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  