-- Arizona Election for Giffords’s Seat a Test in Presidential Race
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2012-06-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/arizona-election-for-giffords-seat-a-test-in-presidential-race.html
The outcome of a special election in
 Arizona  today to fill former U.S. Representative  Gabrielle Giffords ’ seat could highlight the growing influence of
independent voters nationwide and provide clues about how voters
are leaning in this fall’s presidential contest.  The race pits Democrat Ron Barber, 66, a former aide to
Giffords, against Republican Jesse Kelly, 30, a construction
manager. Giffords resigned in January to focus on her recovery
from a gunshot wound she sustained a year earlier while holding
a community meeting outside a Tucson, Arizona, supermarket. The
winner will serve the remaining six months of Giffords’ term.  “Certainly we look at independent voters as being crucial
for the results this fall in swing states like Ohio, Florida and
 Colorado ,” said Jessica Taylor, a senior analyst at the
nonpartisan Washington-based  Rothenberg Political Report . “As
for this district itself, it is very much a swing district.
We’ve seen that in the past few elections.”  The contest between Barber and Kelly follows the 2010
 general election  in Arizona’s Republican-leaning 8th
congressional district, in which moderate Democrat Giffords, who
had held her seat since 2007, bested Kelly, an Iraq war veteran,
by fewer than 2 percentage points, or about 4,000 votes.  The Arizona special election is considered a test --
following a contest on June 5 in which  Wisconsin  Governor  Scott Walker , a Republican, beat back a recall attempt -- of trends
that may influence the race between President  Barack Obama  and
former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney .  ’Harbinger’  “After Wisconsin, if Kelly wins, the Republicans are going
to say ‘the wind is at our back and this is a harbinger of
what’s going to happen in the general election,’” said Brint
Milward, director of the  National Institute for Civil Discourse ,
and the University of Arizona’s School of Government and Public
Policy. “If Barber wins, the Democrats are going to say
’Wisconsin was an isolated case.’”  It’s difficult to judge who’s ahead after months of
negative advertising financed by outside interests, including
both parties’ national campaign committees, Taylor said. Also
complicating the race are questions about turnout, which can be
lower in summer months, and the special circumstances
surrounding Giffords’ injury. There is a third candidate in the
race, the  Green Party ’s Charlie Manolakis.  Poll Results  A poll  released yesterday by Public Policy Polling of
Raleigh,  North Carolina , found Barber leading Kelly 53 percent
to 41 percent, with Manolakis at 4 percent. The firm said the
telephone survey of 1,058 likely voters, with a margin of error
of plus or minus 3 percentage points, “suggests Democrats are
unusually motivated to come out and vote” to keep Giffords’
seat.  “We’ve had other previous special elections of people
resigning for personal reasons, or personal scandals, or they
are appointed to higher office,” Taylor said. “This is one
where a congresswoman had to step down because of a horrific
injury -- we’re not sure how that will play in voters’ minds.”  Giffords was shot in the head during the attack that left
six people dead. Barber was wounded in the attack, and his cheek
still exhibits a dimple from the injury.  Social issues, such as Social Security, Medicare and health
care reform, dominated the Arizona campaign along with the
economy. The state posted the nation’s eighth-highest
foreclosure rate in  April , according to RealtyTrac Inc.  Barber and Obama  Using a strategy that helped flip seats their way in 2010,
Republicans sought to tie Barber to Obama, Taylor said. Barber
declined to answer a question during a debate with Kelly in May
about how he would vote for president in November. Barber later
issued a statement saying he would vote for Obama.  “Ron Barber’s efforts to deceive the public about his
support for President Obama and all of his failed policies shows
just how damaging the Obama agenda has become for Democrat
candidates,” Daniel Scarpinato, a spokesman for the  National
Republican Congressional Committee , said by e-mail.  In a telephone interview, Barber’s campaign emphasized that
the candidate is seeking to make the campaign about issues,
rather than personalities.  “Republicans have focused on trying to polarize the
district,” said Rodd McLeod, a Barber spokesman. “We’ve
focused on trying to reverse that polarity.”  An  ad  paid for by the pro-Democratic House Majority PAC
features clips of Kelly, including a statement during the heated
2010 campaign with Giffords -- months before the shooting -- in
which he said: “She stands there with that smile and pretends
to be some kind of hometown hero. She’s a hero of nothing.”  Negative Ads  The 30-second commercial, part of a six-figure TV
advertising campaign that started June 4 and will run through
today, also includes clips of Kelly backing a zero-percent
corporate  tax rate  and saying Medicare and social security are
“the biggest Ponzi schemes in U.S. history.”  Kelly’s campaign said the ads were misleading and took his
comments out of context.  “The attack ads are heavily edited,” said John Ellinwood,
a spokesman for Kelly. “If you go back and watch the original
video in its entirety, you’ll see Jesse has always clarified in
all his statements that we must pay these benefits and we will
pay these benefits.”  Barber  out-fundraised  Kelly for most of the campaign,
bringing in 37 percent more through May 23, or about $1.19
million to Kelly’s $756,173, according to the Washington-based
Center for Responsive Politics.  $2.2 Million  Outside groups, including the Democratic Congressional
Campaign Committee, the  National Republican Congressional
Committee , the pro-Democratic super PAC House Majority PAC and
the pro-Republican super PAC American Crossroads, poured more
than $2.2 million into the race, according to documents on the
center’s website.  The special election is for a term that lasts only through
early January. Regardless of today’s outcome, Barber and Kelly
are expected to immediately start campaigning all over again for
a full two-year term.  In the regular primary election Aug. 28, there are two
other Republicans on the ballot besides Kelly -- Martha McSally
and Mark Koskiniemi. McSally, a retired Air Force colonel who
was the first female fighter pilot to fly in combat, finished
second to Kelly in the four-way special election primary April
17. Koskiniemi is a political newcomer who works for the Pima
County government.  Besides Barber, there is another Democrat in the August
primary race, state Representative Matt Heinz, an internal
medicine doctor who backed Barber in the special election.  General Election  The winners of the August primary will face off in the Nov.
6 general election for the full term beginning in January in a
district that will be slightly more Democratic as a result of
decennial redistricting.  The current district leans Republican, with about 159,200
Republicans registered to vote, compared to 133,751 Democrats
and 128,242 who filed as other, according to voter registration
figures from the Arizona Secretary of State.  The growing number of independent voters in Arizona echoes
a broader trend, as those who identify themselves as independent
nationally jumped to 38 percent from 32 percent in 2008,
according to  2012 surveys  conducted by the Washington-based Pew
Research Center.  “The proportion of independents is now higher than at any
point in more than two decades,” according to a Pew report
released June 4. “Looking back even further, independents are
more numerous than at any point in the last 70 years.”  The district now represented by Giffords has long been
viewed as competitive for both parties. A Republican held the
seat for more than two decades before Giffords’ election in
2006.  To contact the reporter on this story: Jennifer Oldham in Denver
at   joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Jeffrey Taylor
at   Jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  