-- Harman Falls After Apple’s Siri Eyes Car Market
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-06-12T20:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/harman-falls-after-apple-s-siri-eyes-car-market-new-york-mover.html
Harman International Industries
Inc. (HAR) , a maker of car infotainment systems, fell the most over
two days this year after  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  said it’s working with
automakers on a Siri voice-command button for steering wheels.  The  shares  slid 8.9 percent for their biggest two-day
decline since December. Today, they dropped 3.9 percent to
$36.53 at the close in New York.  Apple said yesterday that it’s working with carmakers such
as  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ,  General Motors Co. (GM) , Honda Motor
Co. and Toyota Motor Corp. to add the button activating Siri,
its voice-recognition software. That sent shares of Stamford,
Connecticut-based Harman down 5.2 percent for the day.  “Apple is a partner, not an adversary,” Harman Chief
Executive Officer Dinesh Paliwal said in an interview today.
Harman, which supplies equipment that combines music, maps and
other information in automobiles, has been working with Apple
and BMW on integrating the iPhone into BMW vehicles, he said.  The feature, Apple for Automotive, will be available on BMW
vehicles this fall, Paliwal said.  The integration of smartphones into vehicles poses the
greatest risk to developers of built-in infotainment systems,
David Leiker, a Robert W. Baird & Co. analyst, said in a
research note today.  “It is likely high-end vehicles,” about 12 percent of the
U.S. market, “will have a high level of embedded technology
while lower-end vehicles are likely to have a large share of
integrated smartphones with a whole range of combinations in
between,” said Leiker, who rates the shares neutral.  Harman has said its gear is in 80 percent of  luxury
vehicles  sold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  