-- Asian Stocks Decline on Doubt Over Spain’s Bailout Plan
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-06-12T10:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/asian-stocks-drop-on-doubt-over-spain-s-bailout-plan.html
Asian  stocks  fell, with the regional
benchmark index retreating from a two week high, as surging
Spanish bond yields stoked concern that a bailout for the
nation’s banks won’t tame the European debt crisis.  Cosco Pacific Ltd., which operates a port in Greece, slid
1.3 percent in  Hong Kong .  Brilliance China Automotive Holdings
Ltd. (1114)  dropped 2.6 percent, pacing declines among Chinese
carmakers, after the government said vehicle prices dropped in
May.  Rio Tinto (RIO)  Group, the world’s third-largest mining company
by market value, lost 1.7 percent in Sydney as copper futures
slid.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  fell 0.5 percent to 112.9 as of
7:22 p.m. in  Tokyo , with almost two shares sliding for each that
rose. The gauge dropped 12 percent from its peak this year on
Feb. 29 through yesterday amid concern economic growth is
slowing in  China  and the U.S. and as Europe’s debt crisis
intensified.  “There appears to be plenty of cynicism,” said George Boubouras, Melbourne-based head of investment strategy at UBS
AG’s Australian wealth-management unit. The Swiss bank has about
$1.5 trillion in assets under management. “ Spain  will remain
the focus for a few days as markets review all possible outcomes
and implications for other troubled euro-zone members. More
firewalls will be required for other euro-zone countries.”  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  declined 1 percent, paring
losses of as much as 2 percent as the yen fell after the
 International Monetary Fund  said the currency is overvalued. A
weaker yen boosts the value of overseas earnings of the nation’s
exporters when repatriated.  South Korea’s Kospi Index slid 0.7 percent. Hong Kong’s
Hang Seng Index lost 0.4 percent, while China’s Shanghai
Composite Index dropped 0.7 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index added 0.2 percent.  Contagion Concerns  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.6
percent today. The gauge lost 1.3 percent yesterday in  New York 
after climbing as much as 0.7 percent in the first minutes of
trading as optimism faded that Spain’s bank bailout plan will
contain the  European debt crisis .  Spanish bond yields surged the most in four months after
the government sought a bailout of 100 billion euros ($125
billion) for its banks. European officials have struggled to
control the debt crisis that began in Greece at the end of 2009.  “Contagion concern is still pretty much alive,” Eddie Tam, chief executive officer of Central Asset Investments, said
on Bloomberg Television. “We’re staying on the sidelines at
least until the Greek election results.”  Close Race  Polls show a June 17 election in Greece may be a close
race. An election on May 6 failed to produce a viable governing
majority. Syriza party leader Alexis Tsipras has pledged to keep
Greece in the euro while scrapping bailout terms in order to end
the hardship brought on by austerity. Meanwhile, pro-bailout
proponents, such as New Democracy leader Antonis Samaras, have
framed the contest as a decision on whether to leave the euro
area.  Companies that do business in Europe declined.  HSBC
Holdings Plc (5) , Europe’s biggest lender by market value, slid 0.8
percent to HK$64.35 in Hong Kong. Cosco Pacific Ltd., which
operates a port in Greece, fell 1.3 percent to HK$9.86. Nippon
Sheet Glass Co., which gets 39 percent of its sales in Europe,
sank 3.6 percent to 80 yen in Tokyo.  China’s carmakers fell as passenger-vehicle prices
decreased 1.7 percent in May, the most in at least 23 months,
according to the Cheng Xiaodong, head of auto-price monitoring
unit of the National Development and Reform Commission.  Brilliance, BYD  Brilliance, the partner Bayerische Motoren Werke AG in
China, dropped 2.6 percent to HK$7.51.  BYD Co. (1211) , a maker of
electric cars part-owned by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway
Inc., slid 1.2 percent to HK$15.10.  Automakers are overstocking cars at a time when dealers are
pessimistic about their sales prospects, Cheng said.  Zhongsheng
Group Holdings Ltd. (881) , China’s largest publicly traded automobile
dealer by revenue, sank 3.6 percent to HK$10.70.  Raw-material producers declined after copper futures fell
as much as 1.2 percent and traded near a five month low. Oil
dropped for a fourth day after Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali
al-Naimi  said the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
may need a higher production quota.  Rio Tinto  slipped 1.7 percent to A$54.65. BHP Billiton
Ltd., the world’s largest mining company, lost 0.6 percent to
A$31.72. Cnooc Ltd., China’s biggest offshore oil producer, fell
0.8 percent to HK$14.52 in Hong Kong.  Qantas Jumps  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 0.3 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 4.1 percent advance by the
 S&P 500  and a 1.1 percent drop by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are  valued  at 1.2 times book
value, compared with 2.1 times for the S&P 500 and 1.3 times for
the Stoxx 600, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A number
below one means companies can be bought for less than value of
their assets.  Among stocks that advanced, Qantas Airways Ltd. jumped 11
percent to A$1.075 as Australia’s largest carrier hired bankers
to help prepare against any potential takeover bid after the
company lost A$1 billion ($1 billion) in market value last week.  Chinese property developers gained after new loans extended
by the nation banks in May exceeded analysts’ estimates. China
Overseas Land & Investment Ltd., the biggest Chinese homebuilder
listed in Hong Kong, climbed 1.4 percent to HK$17.16.  Agile
Property Holdings Ltd. (3383) , the real-estate company partly owned by
JPMorgan Chase & Co., increased 3.6 percent to HK$9.90.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  