-- AT&T, Behind Amazon in Cloud, Turns to Hackathons: Tech
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-06-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/at-t-behind-amazon-in-cloud-turns-to-hackathons-tech.html
When Pritesh Damani stumbled upon a
hackathon for application developers in  New York  last month, he
was surprised to discover that the event was using  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s
cloud technology to host the contestants’ apps.  Damani, like startup engineers across the country, sees
 Amazon.com Inc.’s (AMZN)  Web services as the dominant choice for
software and Web developers looking to outsource their data-
center needs. After winning the event by creating a mobile app
for fantasy sports, Damani is using AT&T’s infrastructure to
help build a company around his product.  “I didn’t even know that it existed,” said Damani, 30,
referring to  AT&T Cloud Architect , which was introduced in
January to provide hosting services via the Internet to small
businesses and developer teams. “It turns out their stuff is
equally simple, if not simpler.”  Getting that message across to emerging startups is no easy
task for AT&T. Amazon has a six-year head start, while  Rackspace
Hosting Inc. (RAX)  is growing rapidly and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  are trying to catch up. AT&T, the largest U.S. phone
company, is counting on its nationwide wireless network,
experience with large data centers and established relationship
with Apple Inc. to lure developers away from competitors.  The cloud-services market, where companies can pay pennies
an hour to have their apps and websites hosted rather than
buying and managing their own servers, is expected to almost
triple to $10.5 billion in 2014 from $3.7 billion last year,
according to researcher  Gartner Inc.   Revenue Stream  Cloud represents a new potential revenue stream for AT&T
after a 6.6 percent increase in  sales  over the past four years
to $126.7 billion in 2011. The company is seeking ways to make
up for slower subscriber growth in the saturated mobile-services
business, which accounts for 45 percent of revenue.  To gain a footing, AT&T has to first make startups aware it
has a product. The Dallas-based company is sponsoring hackathons
across the country, where it can show off its service and offer
promotions, including a complimentary first month.  Hackathons, also called codefests, typically last a day or
two and bring together teams of developers and designers, who
often work around-the-clock, building applications tied to a
particular theme.  In addition to the New York hackathon, which was part of
last month’s  TechCrunch Disrupt  conference, AT&T has more than
15 events lined up the rest of this year in cities ranging from
 Los Angeles  and  Palo Alto ,  California , to Denver and Toronto.  ‘Different Game’  “We recognize it’s a different game we’re playing and
there are a different set of rules,” said John Potter, a vice
president in AT&T’s business solutions unit, in Bedminster,  New
Jersey . “We’re looking to get people engaged and understand
what Cloud Architect is, put promotions out there and get a
certain percentage of promotional users flipped to real users.”  For winning the New York contest, Damani got $5,000 along
with a free month of service. His app,  Fantasy Buzzer , is
designed to alert players of fantasy football and baseball games
when their team has injuries, and let them make changes with
just a couple of clicks.  AT&T introduced Cloud Architect in January at the  Consumer
Electronics Show  in  Las Vegas . There, it finalized a partnership
with  SoftLayer Technologies Inc. , a seven-year-old company also
based in  Dallas  that provides data-center technology and
services. AT&T is adding services on top of SoftLayer’s servers
and using its sales and marketing teams to promote the product.  Balancing Needs  The carrier isn’t concentrating solely on the startup
market. For big companies, AT&T has a partnership with  VMware
Inc. (VMW) , whose virtualization software lets businesses create a
cloud in their own data center, ensuring greater privacy and
control.  “Long-term, you’ll see a mix of architectures within our
portfolio,” said Steven Caniano, AT&T’s vice president of
hosting, application and cloud services, at a conference on May
31. “We’ll be able to balance based on customer needs in terms
of functionality, price point, service level, the best solution
set to meet their particular work load.”  For smaller companies and app developers, Cloud Architect
starts at $50 a month, or customers can pay by hour of usage,
similar to how Amazon’s service is priced. AT&T is touting its
ability to provide networking, security and storage via the
cloud, using its experience offering those services to large
companies across the country.  As a mobile operator, it’s also letting developers access
the company’s APIs, or application programming interfaces, to
build apps that utilize location services and messaging
technologies.  Amazon Loyalty  Going head-to-head with Amazon presents a new challenge.
The online retailer leads the cloud market with revenue
estimated to be about $1 billion. Hundreds of thousands of
companies in 190 countries use Amazon’s service, and the company
is located in  Seattle , one of the top U.S. tech hubs.  While AT&T is known as an old phone behemoth, Amazon has
the loyalty of emerging startups that have used its Web services
from the beginning, like  Euclid Inc.  Founder Will Smith’s Palo
Alto-based startup hosted a tech talk in May where Amazon
executives spoke to about 10 local companies, and Smith said he
doesn’t see AT&T cracking the developer community. That’s
because Amazon continues adding new features and dropping prices
as the cost of online storage declines.  “Every two weeks, I get an e-mail about how the costs are
going down,” said Smith, whose company provides analytics
technology to retailers. Amazon is “incredibly easy to work
with and their product is so seamless,” he said.  Success Stories  To Potter, that sentiment just signifies how much work his
group has to do. At a recent mobile  hackathon  in Seattle, AT&T
attracted more than 130 developers for an information session on
development in the wireless industry.  The winner of the event was  RaaSIO , a team of engineers
building robots that can be controlled by smartphones. AT&T’s
cloud works for them, because it has the right technology to
collect data from wireless devices and communicate commands to
the cloud and back. The founders now promote the service when
they pitch their project, which means the word-of-mouth trick is
starting to work, said Shubham Shukla, a RaaSIO team member.  “They need some more success stories to push Cloud
Architect to the developer community,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy at   alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  