-- Attorney General Holder Should Resign, Says U.S. Senator Cornyn
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-06-12T17:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/attorney-general-holder-should-resign-says-u-s-senator-cornyn.html
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder
should resign because of his poor handling of probes into a
federal gun investigation and leaks of classified information, a
U.S. senator said.  John Cornyn , a Texas Republican, called for the attorney
general’s resignation today at a Senate Judiciary Committee
hearing where the attorney general testified. He joins dozens of
 House Republicans  and at least three other senators in calling
for Holder to step down.  “You’ve violated the public trust, in my view, by failing
and refusing to perform the duties of your office,” Cornyn
said. “It’s more sorrow than regret than anger that I would say
that you leave me no alternative but to join those that call
upon you to resign your office.”  Holder told lawmakers that he acted appropriately and
doesn’t have “any intention of resigning.”  Holder, a target of Republicans since soon after taking
office in February 2009, is facing a contempt vote in the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee on June 20. The panel
has demanded documents related to Fast and Furious, a law
enforcement operation that allowed illegal U.S. weapons
purchases to wind up at crime scenes in  Mexico . Holder has said
the tactics were “misguided” and wouldn’t be used again.  Contempt Vote  White House spokesman  Josh Earnest  told reporters today
that more than 7,000 pages of documents were given to Congress
and the attacks on Holder are “nothing more than politics.”  Cornyn said Holder misled Congress about the gun
investigation, and said the  Justice Department  faces a “clear
conflict of interest” in its investigation into leaks of
classified national security information.  “You won’t support a truly independent investigation,”
Cornyn said.  Holder said he has “great faith” in two U.S. attorneys he
named to lead investigations into leaks of classified
information. Holder rejected Republican lawmakers’ calls for the
appointment of an independent special prosecutor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  