-- Lawmakers Say Wal-Mart Not Cooperating in Bribery Probe
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-06-12T21:45:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/lawmakers-say-wal-mart-not-cooperating-in-bribery-probe.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  hasn’t provided
enough information in an investigation of allegations company
executives bribed Mexican officials to expedite store openings
in that nation, a pair of Democratic lawmakers wrote today in a
letter to Chief Executive Officer  Mike Duke .  Representative  Elijah Cummings , of Maryland, and
Representative  Henry Waxman , of California, who are probing the
issue, told Duke they have yet to receive documents related to
the allegations. The world’s largest retailer hasn’t made
executives or in-house staff available for questions and has
only made outside attorneys available, according to the  letter .  Cummings and Waxman are requesting the Bentonville,
Arkansas-based retailer send internal staff to a briefing
scheduled for tomorrow to discuss the investigation.  “You have not provided us with the information we
requested,” the letter stated. “Wal-Mart’s actions to date
significantly inhibit our ability to investigate these
allegations.”  Wal-Mart said in April that the company is cooperating with
investigations by the U.S. Justice Department and the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission into the allegations. That
month, the  New York  Times reported that a senior Wal-Mart lawyer
received reports of bribery in September 2005 and a cover-up may
have occurred later.  Wal-Mart ‘Cooperating’  “We are cooperating with the ongoing federal
investigations, and as appropriate, will also continue to assist
members of Congress and their staffs in understanding our
efforts to address FCPA issues,” Wal-Mart spokesman  David Tovar , said via e-mail, referring to the chain’s bid to be in
compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  “We have already provided committee staff with one
briefing and have another briefing scheduled tomorrow.”  Cummings is a ranking member of the House Committee on
Oversight and Government Reform and Waxman is a ranking member
of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce.  The Congressional committees are also requesting that, by
June 26, Wal-Mart give them the company’s new anti-corruption
policies and procedures and explain what those practices were
before changes were made.  The lawmakers also want documents detailing any internal
findings related to the corruption probe and explaining how Wal-
Mart is changing its protocols for handling such issues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  