-- BA-Iberia Halt Takeover Plans as Euro Crisis Clips Travel
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-12T11:43:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/ba-iberia-puts-takeovers-on-hold-as-euro-crisis-dents-tap-appeal.html
British Airways parent IAG has put
one of the aviation industry’s most ambitious acquisition plans
on hold as the  European debt crisis  hurts demand for travel.  Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh , who identified 12
takeover candidates before IAG’s formation last year, said the
attraction of mergers has faded and that consolidation is most
likely to be achieved through the collapse of weaker carriers.  “We aren’t looking at any acquisitions,” Walsh said today
in Beijing. “I don’t see that there’s anything likely to be
available in the short term that would be of interest. What I
think we’ll see in 2012 and 2013 is airline failures.”  IAG’s enthusiasm for buying Portugal’s state-owned TAP SGPS
SA in particular has “significantly waned” because of the
economic slump, Walsh said. The International Air Transport
Association yesterday almost doubled its 2012 loss forecast for
European carriers, citing recessions in countries including the
U.K. and  Spain  and concerns that the debt crisis may widen.  IAG, as International Consolidated Airlines Group SA is
known, traded 0.6 percent lower at 144.70 pence as of 11:41 a.m.
in London, where the company is based. Shares of  Europe ’s third-
biggest carrier, founded through a merger of British Airways and
Spain’s Iberia, have slipped 1.9 percent so far this year.  ‘Cold, Heartless’  “I’ve always said I believe in consolidation, and there are
many forms,” Walsh told Bloomberg Television. “One is M&A.
Another is development of joint businesses. And probably the
chief form of consolidation is to see weak airlines disappear.”  While in the past governments have often intervened to
shore up flagship carriers, European austerity programs are
making that less common, with casualties this year including
Spanair SA, which had been backed by the Catalonia regional
government, and Hungarian national carrier Malev Zrt.  “If you look at Barcelona and Budapest that’s exactly as
we’ve said it should happen,” Walsh said. “I think from an
overall industry point of view the time has come for a proper
cleanout. You can say that’s very cold and heartless, but we’re
in business and the reality is that the weak fail.”  IAG, which had indicated on several occasions it might bid
for TAP as  Portugal  seeks a sale, is now “highly unlikely” to
compete for the Lisbon-based carrier, Walsh told reporters in
the Chinese capital, where he attended IATA’s annual meeting.  Changing Picture  “Even if competitors in Europe express interest in it, it
wouldn’t change my view,” he said. “We’ve got a different
economic environment. Portugal is in a different environment.”  Europe’s airlines are likely to lose $1.1 billion in 2012,
IATA reckons. Spain requested a 100 billion-euro ($125 billion)
bailout for its banks this week, becoming the fourth nation in
the region to seek support since the debt crisis began.  While TAP’S routes to Brazil might be especially attractive
should Lan Airlines SA of  Chile  quit IAG’s Oneworld alliance
after merging with Sao Paulo-based Tam SA, a member of the rival
Star group, Walsh’s acquisition of U.K.-based BMI from  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG (LHA)  means he now has the slots needed to add flights to
growth markets direct from his company’s  London Heathrow  hub.  Portuguese politicians also expressed concern that TAP
might be folded into Iberia and its Lisbon base downgraded under
IAG ownership, with CEO Fernando Pinto cautioning in April that
there would be alternative bidders. That disquiet and government
“delays” with the sale also colored IAG’s view, Walsh said.  ‘Cool Reception’  “It was disappointing that the public expression of
interest from IAG was met with a pretty cool reception,” he
said. “We’re not interested in doing anything hostile. We were
genuinely interested because of the attractive nature of TAP’s
network, but the world has moved on and we’ve moved on as well.”  IAG may separately exercise options to buy more  Boeing Co. (BA) 
777-300ER long-haul planes, Walsh said, without suggesting a
number. BA operates six of the jets, according to its  website .  “It’s been a great success in our fleet, so we are very
encouraged by that,” the executive added.  Walsh also said he’s not concerned about cooperation talks
between  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  and Dubai-based Emirates. BA and
Qantas have worked together on Australia-Europe flights since
1995, and a planned merger collapsed in 2008 after the pair
failed to agree on who would control the enlarged business.  Qantas tying up with Emirates would make “commercial
sense” and would be the strategy that Walsh would pursue if he
ran the Australian carrier, he said. The CEO added that IAG
wouldn’t buy into Qantas and that he doesn’t think the Sydney-
based airline will seek an equity investment.  Emirates is a major competitor to IAG, Lufthansa and  Air
France-KLM (AF)  Group on routes from Europe and  North America  to  Asia 
as it seeks to lure passengers to travel via the Gulf.  On  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , parent of IAG’s trans-Atlantic partner
 American Airlines , Walsh said CEO  Tom Horton  is right to focus
on reorganizing the carrier and exiting bankruptcy rather than
looking at potential mergers. US Airways Group Inc. has won
support from American unions for a combination.  “First you need to try and fix the problem,” Walsh said.
“Then you say, ‘is there a better option?’”  --Stephen Engle, Andrea Rothman and Jasmine Wang in Beijing.
Editors:  Chris Jasper , Neil Denslow, Vipin V. Nair.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  