-- Bankruptcy Judges Can’t Hear Madoff Suits, Defendants Say
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-06-12T16:54:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/bankruptcy-judges-can-t-hear-madoff-suits-defendants-say.html
Bankruptcy judges can’t rule or
recommend rulings on so-called fraudulent-transfer suits by the
liquidator of Bernard L. Madoff’s brokerage under the U.S.
Constitution, defendants said in a brief to U.S. District Judge
Jed S. Rakoff in  New York .  Suits that aim to “augment” a bankrupt firm’s estate are
based on common-law claims and by law require a ruling by a
district judge, they said yesterday in the filing.  Rakoff ruled in May, in a case involving the Refco
litigation trust, that bankruptcy judges don’t have power to
make final rulings on claims for fraudulent transfers and unjust
enrichment. His law clerk sent the decision, which cited a U.S.
Supreme Court ruling in the Anna Nicole Smith case, to lawyers
for the Madoff trustee and defendants in related lawsuits,
according to an e-mail obtained by Bloomberg. Bankruptcy judges
can issue reports and recommendations to district judges, Rakoff
said in the Refco opinion.  Picard, who has filed more than 1,000 lawsuits, continues
to sue investors to claw back Ponzi funds. Rakoff was wrong to
rule that bankruptcy judges can make recommendations on how such
cases should be handled, the Madoff defendants said yesterday.  “To the contrary, Congress considered and rejected
bankruptcy judges serving as magistrates, who would issue
reports and recommendations, subject to full de novo review” by
a district judge, they said.  ‘Most Significant’  They also faulted Picard’s argument that the Madoff
bankruptcy judge had the best experience to handle the clawback
cases.  “This court, by contrast, has brought one of the most
significant recovery actions, the Katz case, almost to trial,”
setting the shape of “governing law,” they said, referring to
Rakoff’s rulings in the New York Mets owners case.  Hundreds of Madoff defendants asked Rakoff to move their
cases from  bankruptcy court  to district court based on the Smith
ruling, which stopped the former Playboy model’s heirs from
collecting millions of dollars from Texas billionaire J. Howard Marshall’s estate and put district judges in control of more
bankruptcy issues.  The transfer of cases has undercut U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
 Burton Lifland ’s power to reverse some fraudulent transfers and
limited trustee Irving Picard’s ability to collect money to pay
victims of Madoff’s $52 billion  Ponzi scheme , the largest in
U.S. history.  Mets Owners  Rakoff, who let the New York Mets owners move their dispute
with the Madoff liquidator to his court, received more than 400
requests during the week ended April 2 from companies sued by
Picard. Those seeking to move cases included  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and Merrill Lynch, as well as former spouses of
Madoff’s sons.  Rakoff will hold a hearing on June 18 to rule on how more
than 300 of Picard’s suits should be handled in light of the
Smith case, titled Stern v. Marshall.  In the Mets case, the parties settled after Rakoff made
principal harder for Picard to take back and limited the
recoverable profits, cutting the trustee’s permitted demands by
almost two-thirds to $386 million from $1 billion.  Rakoff, with U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon , has
thrown out $90 billion of Picard’s claims against banks. Picard,
who has charged about $270 million for his firm’s Madoff work,
is appealing rulings related to about $30 billion of the claims.
Madoff is serving a 150-year prison sentence.  The Rakoff opinion in the Refco case is Mark S. Kirschner,
trustee of the Refco Litigation Trust v. John D. Aboglia, 11-
cv-8250, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan .)  The Rakoff docket for Picard’s suits is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC
12-mc-0115, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  