-- Fed’s Tarullo Calls for Tougher Shadow Banking Oversight
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-06-12T17:34:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/bankers-cite-confusion-over-federal-reserve-stress-test.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  called on regulators to curb risks in lightly regulated
nonbank funding and credit markets that he said may grow as
supervisors strengthen bank oversight.  So-called shadow banking, in which nonbank institutions
create loans or raise funds, “has been only obliquely
addressed,” Tarullo said today in a speech to a  San Francisco 
Fed conference on global finance. “As the oversight of
regulated institutions is strengthened, opportunities for
arbitrage in the shadow banking system may increase.”  Shadow banks typically lack  deposit insurance  and don’t
have access to the Fed’s discount window. Consequently, the
firms can be subject to runs if investors refuse to roll over
commercial paper or to buy assets held by a shadow bank. During
the financial crisis, the Fed created emergency programs to save
some lightly supervised parts of finance from collapse. The
Primary Dealer Credit Facility, for example, financed Wall
Street bond brokers after funding in repo markets broke down.  Tarullo called for more transparency in repo markets, and
for reforms to address “structural vulnerabilities” in money
market mutual funds. “A third short-term priority is to address
the settlement process for tri-party  repurchase agreements ,” he
said.  Regulators need to watch for new kinds of risk that may
emerge in shadow banking, even though their first task is to
ensure sound oversight in established markets like money market
mutual funds, Tarullo said in response to an audience question.  ‘New Channels’  “A set of effective regulations in one area can produce
arbitrage opportunities, which lead people to create new
instruments or look for new channels to engage in similar kinds
of activities that may produce similar kinds of risks,” Tarullo
said. “Indeed, the possibility of such arbitrage has increased
as the regulation of already-regulated financial institutions
has strengthened in the wake of the crisis.”  The KBW Bank Index, which tracks 24 large U.S. and regional
banks, rose 1.3 percent today as of 1:18 p.m. in  New York , while
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.7 percent to
1,317.91.  U.S. central bankers plan to meet June 19-20 amid signs of
sputtering economic growth. Payrolls climbed by 69,000 last
month, the least in a year, after a revised 77,000 gain in April
that was smaller than initially estimated. Tarullo, the governor
in charge of bank supervision and regulation, didn’t comment on
monetary policy in the text of his remarks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  