-- Barclays to Add Analysts in Africa in Equities Expansion
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-06-12T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/barclays-to-add-analysts-in-africa-in-equities-expansion.html
Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) , the South African
bank controlled by  Barclays Plc (BARC) , plans to add as many as six
analysts this year, part of the U.K. lender’s push to expand its
equities unit after the purchase of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s brokerage.  “We’ve got about 20 people at the moment and will probably
end with 25 or 26,” Stephen Van Coller, chief executive officer
of Absa’s  investment banking  unit, Absa Capital, said in a
telephone interview from Johannesburg. “Barclays is looking at
the whole equity idea. As they roll out the global equity
business and look at Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa , you see
Russia and  South Africa  make up 20 percent of the fee pool, so
you must have them to be top-ranked.”  Barclays, which bought Lehman’s U.S. unit in 2008 after the
New York-based firm filed the biggest bankruptcy in history, has
since added more than 2,000 bankers in  Europe  and Asia as it
expanded its equities operations. Chief Executive Officer Robert Diamond is seeking to expand in Africa to help him meet his
target of boosting return on equity, a measure of profitability,
to 13 percent. Barclays’s African operations posted a return on
equity of 10 percent last year, more than the whole company’s
6.6 percent total.  Absa Capital isn’t offering candidates signing-on bonuses
or above-average salaries, Van Coller said. The lender will
compensate analysts for deferred bonuses and stock options they
accrued at their previous employers to encourage them to join,
he added. The investment bank will cover about 70 percent of the
Johannesburg  stock exchange ’s market value once the hirings are
completed, he said.  Citigroup, Goldman  Barclays has already added analysts and bankers in South
Africa including  Citigroup Inc.’s (C)  former head of equities in the
country, Quintus Kilbourn, and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s Philip Lindop, who was named head of Africa investment banking in May.  The number of equity research teams in South Africa has
increased in the past 18 months, with firms including  Macquarie
Group Ltd. (MQG) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and SBG Securities, a unit of
 Standard Bank (SBK)  Group Ltd., adding to their research teams.  More than 15 analysts follow Standard Bank, Africa’s
largest lender, almost twice the number in January 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s prompting
concern among investors that too many analysts are chasing too
little revenue.  Some Consolidation  “There will be some form of consolidation,” said Neville Chester, a  fund manager  who helps to manage the equivalent of
$35 billion at Cape Town-based  Coronation Fund Managers Ltd. (CML)   Barclays’s total  income  from investment banking rose 91
percent in the first quarter of this year compared with the last
quarter of 2011 and gained 3 percent from the year-earlier
period, according to Chris Lucas, the U.K. lender’s finance
director. Equities revenue increased 1 percent in the first
quarter from the year-earlier period, he said in a presentation
on  April 26 .  Barclays purchased a 54 percent stake in Absa for 32.8
billion rand ($3.9 billion) in 2005. The British lender operates
its investment banking business in the country through Absa
Capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  