-- Beijing Auto Luring Ferrari Designer for Chinese Daytona
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-12T20:44:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/beijing-auto-luring-ferrari-designer-for-chinese-daytona.html
Leonardo Fioravanti, the designer of
the Ferrari Daytona and 288 GTO, has a new job on his hands:
transforming a Chinese army motorcycle maker into a global
premium car brand.  Beijing Automotive Group Co., which traces its roots to
producing sidecar motorcycles for use in the  Korean War , hired
Fioravanti as a consultant and gave him the title of Chief
Design Officer in April. The carmaker unveiled a prototype
luxury sedan at the Beijing motor show and has said it wants to
make “world-class” cars by 2025.  “ Chinese manufacturers  recognize that they have some
problems that they have to improve, one of which is the lack of
brand identity,” said 74-year-old Fioravanti, who started his
career with Pininfarina SpA, the design studio behind the
Ferrari 458 Italia and Maserati GranCabrio convertible, in a
telephone interview from Moncalieri, Italy. “The first that
achieves its own recognizable brand identity and styling
language will be the winner.”  Beijing Auto is among Chinese carmakers betting that hiring
star designers will help burnish their brands and reverse a
widening gap in market share led by  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
Volkswagen AG. After making progress in recent years in
reliability and vehicle safety, domestic automakers are
increasingly turning their attention to branding.  Chinese brands’ share of sedan and compact-car sales fell
to 27.5 percent in this year’s first five months from 31.4
percent a year earlier, according to data from the  China 
Association of Automobile Manufacturers. None of the top 10
passenger-vehicle models by sales this year belonged to
homegrown Chinese brands.  Foreign Designers  The stakes are becoming higher for Chinese automakers as
the market matures, leaving multiple brands fighting for market
share. Average passenger-vehicle prices fell last month by the
most on a month-on-month basis since June 2010, as dealerships
cut prices to reduce a glut of unsold automobiles that carmakers
are pumping into showrooms.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s China partner,  Brilliance
China Automotive Holdings Ltd. (1114) , hired Italian Dimitri Vicedomini
from Pininfarina to head its in-house team. Qoros Auto Co., a
joint venture between Chery Automobile Co. and Israel Corp. that
plans to introduce a luxury sedan for China and  Europe  next
year, hired former Mini chief designer Gert Hildebrand in
January 2011 to head its design team.  Great Wall Motor Co. (2333) , China’s biggest maker of sport-
utility vehicles, appointed former Mercedes-Benz designer
Andreas Deufel as design director last year. Former Volvo Car
chief designer Peter Horbury joined Zhejiang Geely Holding Group
Co. as senior vice president in charge of design last year.  Time Cycle  “Hiring successful foreign designers helps shorten the
time needed for local automakers to catch up with world-famous
brands like Audi and BMW, which had a century’s head start,”
said Xu Feifei, brand strategy director at Labbrand Enterprise
Management Consulting ( Shanghai ) Co. “With enough time,
consumers will recognize that this look belongs to this brand.”  While Chinese automakers are making the right moves by
attracting foreign designers, these highly paid imports can only
do so much, said Greg E. Anderson, author of “Designated
Drivers: How China Plans to Dominate the Global Auto Industry.”  “It would be as if  Leonardo da Vinci  were hired to teach a
group of aspiring artists how to create art,” Anderson said.
“He could never transfer the essence of how a naturally
talented artist creates something like the  Mona Lisa  or the Last
Supper.”  Beijing Auto declined to comment for this story and
referred queries about its branding strategy to previously
published statements.  Design Quality  For local automakers to close the gap with foreign
competitors, design quality has to rank more equitably with
speed-to-market considerations, said Wang Bo, director of
 Tsinghua University ’s automotive design program.  Many Chinese automakers give their designers as short as
three to five months to come up with a new model design,
compared with the more than 20 months that’s standard
international practice, he said.  “What does that do?” said Wang, who helped set up the
Tsinghua Automotive Design Center in 2003. “The first response
for many Chinese designers is to go on the Internet and copy
from BMW and Mercedes and hand in the work.”  The result is the proliferation of look-alike models. It’s
also safest to provide new buyers something that’s known to
sell, said Silvio Pietro Angori, chief executive officer of
Cambiano, Italy-based  Pininfarina. (PINF)   Development Center  The company, which first cooperated with a Chinese automaker
in 1996, started a product development center in Shanghai and is
working with Tsinghua in Beijing and Tong Ji University in
Shanghai to train car designers.  “In China, there are large numbers of customers who
already own a car and they will change cars and look for
something unique that speaks to their needs,” Angori said in a
telephone interview. “That is when the brand becomes
relevant.”  For Fioravanti, Chinese automakers still have a long way to
go before they can build a world-famous brand.  “Brand development is something that maybe you cannot
appreciate immediately, but I think is a long-term investment,”
said the designer, who travels to China a few times a year from
his base in  Italy . “You can’t expect a new carmaker to
immediately reach the standard of the likes of Mercedes, which
has been in the business for more than 100 years.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Tian Ying in
Beijing at   ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  