-- Billionaire Batista Expects to Sell CCX Stake by Year-End
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-06-12T20:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/billionaire-batista-expects-to-sell-ccx-stake-by-year-end.html
Eike Batista , Brazil’s richest
person, said he expects to find buyers for a stake in his coal
unit  CCX Carvao da Colombia SA  by the end of the year after
hiring Morgan Stanley to help find a partner.  Batista is in talks with possible buyers and is willing to
sell between 30 percent and 50 percent of CCX, the billionaire
said in an interview in  Rio de Janeiro  late yesterday. It may
take adviser Morgan Stanley an estimated six months to
coordinate the divestiture, he said, shrugging off possible
delays because of fluctuations in international markets.  “You always manage to find a partner or sell a stake in
quality projects such as the ones we have,” Batista said.
“Even during difficult times you can sell good assets.”  Batista, 55, is raising money from international investors
to expand his oil, iron-ore, coal, shipping and power-generation
companies. The billionaire this year agreed to sell stakes in
his EBX Group Co. holding company to Mubadala Development Co.
and General Electric Co. He also completed deals with EON AG and
International Business Machines Corp., which acquired stakes in
his electricity and technology units.  Batista said on May 25 he hired Morgan Stanley to sell a
stake in CCX. The company, which was spun off from power
producer  MPX Energia SA (MPXE3) , began trading in Sao Paulo the same
day.  China  Interest?  Companies from China,  South Korea  and  India  may be
interested in the CCX stake because those countries are trying
to secure a supply of natural resources, Batista said in
yesterday’s interview. CCX may also attract companies with
experience in operating underground coal mines, he said.  “We are interested in well-known world mining companies
that operate these type of mines,” Batista said. Batista’s net
worth has surged 8.6 percent in 2012 to $24.4 billion, making
him the world’s 13th richest person, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index  daily ranking.  Rio de Janeiro-based CCX plans to invest $5.5 billion to
develop a mine, a railway and a port project in Colombia with
the capacity to produce an average of 25 million metric tons for
20 years, MPX said May 14. CCX has 671.8 million tons in coal
reserves and coal resources of 5.22 billion tons.  CCX, the sixth of Batista’s companies to be listed in  Sao
Paulo , gained 0.7 percent to 5.65 reais at the close today. The
stock has  declined  34 percent since its May 25 listing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  