-- Bovespa Index Rises to Two-Week High as Rate Outlook Lifts B2W
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-06-12T21:15:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/bovespa-index-rises-to-two-week-high-as-rate-outlook-lifts-b2w.html
The Bovespa index rose to a two-week
high as retailers and homebuilders rallied on speculation
Brazilian policy makers will further reduce borrowing costs.  B2W Cia. Global do Varejo  led gains by companies that sell
in the local market as yields on interest-rate futures contracts
declined. Steelmaker Gerdau SA, which generated 38 percent of
its 2011  revenue  from  North America , advanced to a one-month
high after a Federal Reserve policy maker said he would support
various stimulus measures.  Brazil ’s benchmark equity measure gained 1.9 percent to
55,049.03 at the close in  Sao Paulo . Sixty-three stocks rose on
the measure while four fell. The real depreciated 0.1 percent to
2.0666 per  U.S. dollar .  “With the external scenario worsening every day,  interest
rates  in Brazil will surely keep falling,” Rogerio Freitas, a
partner at Rio de Janeiro-based hedge fund Teorica
Investimentos, said in a phone interview. “Today the markets
seem to be reacting positively to the speculation about further
stimulus measures in the U.S., but I don’t think this optimism
will last long. Problems such as the crisis in  Europe  are still
out there.”  Global stocks  climbed as Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  said in a Bloomberg Television interview that he would
support a variety of measures to boost growth, underscoring his
preference for more stimulus.  Industrial Employment  In the Brazilian interest-rate futures market, yields on
most contracts fell after a report from the national statistics
agency showed the number of people  employed  in the industrial
sector dropped for a second straight month, falling 0.3 percent
in April from March.  “Growth in Brazil is nothing to be enthusiastic about, and
the industrial sector is the main lagger,”  Pedro Galdi , chief
strategist at Sao Paulo-based brokerage SLW Corretora, said by
phone. “The stimulus announced by the government so far should
eventually help to boost growth, but those things take time.”  Latin America ’s largest economy will expand 2.53 percent
this year, according to the median estimate in a central bank
survey of about 100 analysts published yesterday. A week
earlier, analysts expected an expansion of 2.72 percent. Record
low interest rates, tax breaks for companies and consumers and
measures to boost credit won’t prevent growth from slowing in
2012, the survey indicates. Last year, Brazil expanded 2.73
percent, its second-worst performance since 2003.  The yield on the interest-rate futures contracts due in
January dropped two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
7.73 percent.  B2W, PDG Realty  B2W, the online retailer, jumped 4.9 percent to 5.78 reais.
PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos & Participacoes, Brazil’s biggest
homebuilder by revenue, gained 2.8 percent to 3.36 reais.  Fibria Celulose SA, the world’s largest pulp producer, rose
3.5 percent to 12.80 reais after saying it is repurchasing bonds
and renegotiating loan terms. Embraer SA added 2.5 percent to
14.02 reais, snapping a two-day drop after  Standard & Poor’s 
revised its outlook on the plane builder to positive from
stable.  Gerdau climbed 3.4 percent to 17.26 reais.  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  entered a  bear market  on May 17 after tumbling
21 percent from this year’s high on March 13 through that day.
The gauge trades at 9.5 times analysts’ earnings estimates for
the next four quarters, which compares with the 9.9 ratio for
MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21 developing nations’ equities, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume was 5.83 billion reais ($2.82 billion) in
stocks in Sao Paulo today, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.
That compares with a daily average of 7.15 billion reais this
year through June 11, according to data from the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  