-- Brazil Raises $1.3 Billion in 4G Wireless Auction
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-06-13T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/brazil-carriers-win-1-3-billion-for-4g-wireless-airwaves.html
Brazil  raised 2.72 billion reais
($1.3 billion) in an auction of wireless airwaves as the
nation’s top four mobile-phone carriers snapped up assets to
offer faster Internet speeds to consumers.  The government auction, which started yesterday and
continues today, includes airwaves in the 2.5-gigahertz
frequency range. The winners of the spectrum will have to
construct fourth-generation networks in host cities of soccer’s
 Confederations Cup  by April 2013, according to phone regulator
Anatel. More cities must be ready by the end of the next year to
prepare for World Cup games.  With the airwaves, the winning companies can add services
such as high-definition video to lure customers. Brazil already
has 253 million mobile-phone subscriptions, more than its
population, forcing carriers to move beyond voice service to
expand revenue.  Telefonica Brasil SA, a unit of Madrid-based  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,
was the biggest spender in the auction yesterday, bidding 1.05
billion reais, a 67 percent premium to the minimum price, for 20
megahertz of national spectrum.  America Movil (AMXL) , based in Mexico
City, pledged 844.5 million reais for a similar block of
spectrum.  Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3) , a unit of Milan-based  Telecom Italia
SpA (TIT) , will pay 375 million reais for a 10-megahertz block of
national spectrum and for regional licenses. Rio de Janeiro-
based  Oi SA (OIBR4)  will pay 345 million reais, also acquiring a 10-
megahertz national swath and regional licenses.  New Competition  All four carriers assumed obligations for increasing
coverage in rural areas as part of their 4G airwave
acquisitions.  The companies will face new competition in some markets.
Billionaire investor  George Soros ’s  Sunrise Telecomunicacoes
Ltda. , which offers pay-TV service in parts of Sao Paulo state,
spent 19.1 million reais for airwaves in the same area. Sky
Brasil Servicos Ltda., a unit of El Segundo, California-based
 DirecTV (DTV) , also acquired regional spectrum, in states including
Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, for 90.6 million reais.  The airwaves acquired by Sunrise and Sky were for fixed-
wireless spectrum, meaning they will offer services such as
Internet access for a specific location rather than for mobile
use over a wide area.  The government will miss its forecast for 3.85 billion
reais in proceeds from the auction because of lower-than-
expected demand for spectrum to be used for fixed-wireless
Internet access, Anatel President Joao Rezende said yesterday in
Brasilia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  