-- Brazil Futures Yields Drop to Record Low After Employment Report
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-06-12T21:31:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/brazil-real-rises-as-stimulus-bets-boost-emerging-market-assets.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures contracts fell to a record low after industrial
employment declined in April, adding to speculation policy
makers will sustain the pace of reductions in borrowing costs.  The central bank lowered the target lending rate by a half-
percentage point to a record low 8.50 percent last month and
signaled it will reduce the benchmark further as a fragile
global economy slows inflation.  “The industrial employment number is weighing on the rates
market,”  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at Banco WestLB do
Brasil SA in Sao Paulo, said in a phone interview. “The central
bank may reduce rates again in July and leave the door open for
more cuts.”  Yields on the interest-rate futures contract due in January
dropped two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.73
percent at 6 p.m. in Sao Paulo. It earlier touched a record low
7.70 percent. The real fell 0.2 percent to 2.0684 per dollar.  The real erased gains today as investors abandoned bets
that the central bank would auction currency swaps, according to
Reginaldo Galhardo, head of  currency trading  at Treviso
Corretora de Cambio in Sao Paulo.  The central bank sold currency swap contracts yesterday for
the eighth time since mid-May to stem declines in the real
spurred by concern  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis will erode
global growth.  Currency Swaps  Brazil’s central bank sold 8,000 of 40,000 currency swap
contracts for a total of $400 million at an auction yesterday,
according to a statement.  The swaps are a reversal of the bank’s dollar purchases,
which reached $7.2 billion in April, the most in 13 months, to
bolster exports by weakening the currency.  Brazil’s industrial employment fell 1.4 percent in April
from a year earlier, the Brazilian Institute of Geography and
Informatics reported.  The world’s biggest emerging market after  China  will expand
at a slower rate of 2.53 percent this year, according to the
median estimate in a central bank survey of about 100 analysts
published this week. A week earlier, analysts expected an
expansion of 2.72 percent.  HSBC Holdings Plc cut its estimates for  Brazil ’s economic
growth in 2012 to 2.5 percent, below last year’s 2.7 percent
expansion, according to an e-mailed report today.  The bank’s analysts also reduced their estimate for gross
domestic product in 2013 to 3.8 percent from 4 percent, citing
“evidence of weak investment and signs that the services sector
may be faltering.”  Brazil’s annual inflation rate slowed in May more than
economists forecast, dropping below 5 percent for the first time
since 2010.  Prices, as measured by the benchmark IPCA index, rose 4.99
percent last month from a year earlier, the national statistics
agency said June 6. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of analysts was for a 5.06 percent increase.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  