-- Breeden Activist Fund Says Research Director Fenton Resigned
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2012-06-12T19:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/breeden-activist-fund-says-research-director-fenton-resigned.html
Breeden Capital Management LLC, the
activist hedge fund founded by a former head of the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, said Joshua Fenton resigned
as director of research and trading.  Breeden Capital, based in Greenwich, Connecticut, said in
an update to its annual  registration  with the SEC that Michael
Keating will serve as interim research director. At the end of
February, Breeden Capital had $645.7 million in assets under
management, according to its SEC registration.  Richard Breeden , who served as SEC chairman from 1989 to
1993 under former President  George H.W. Bush , founded Breeden
Capital in 2005 to make activist investments in small and
medium-sized companies.  California Public Employees’ Retirement
System , the nation’s largest pension plan, holds an equity stake
in Breeden Capital.  Breeden, 62, didn’t immediately return a telephone call
seeking comment. Fenton has joined another firm and is currently
traveling in  China , his wife Kristine said in an interview when
reached at their home in Cross River, New York. She declined to
name Fenton’s new employer.  Prior to joining Breeden Capital, Fenton worked as director
of global equity research during 2008 and 2009 at Clay Finlay
LLC of  New York . Before that, he was director of research at
Gabelli Asset Management Inc. and helped manage the Gabelli
Global Gold & Natural Resources Trust.  In September, Calpers wound down a European fund managed by
Breeden after it lost $71.5 million. The pension fund’s $300
million investment in Breeden European Partners (California) LP
was valued at $228.5 million in a document reviewing the
performance of Calpers investments during the second quarter of
last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  