-- Bundesbank’s Dombret Says ECB Liquidity Provision Carries Risks
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-06-12T11:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/bundesbank-s-dombret-says-ecb-liquidity-provision-carries-risks.html
Bundesbank board member Andreas Dombret said the  European Central Bank ’s long term loans carry
risks that might exacerbate the crisis.  “Over the medium to long term, continued provision of
ample liquidity might, through various channels, deanchor
inflation expectations, which would translate into higher
inflation risks,” Dombret said in a speech in  London  today.
“It could also pave the way for new asset bubbles, thereby
sowing the seeds of the next crisis.”  The ECB has flooded the banking system with more than 1
trillion euros ($1.25 trillion) in cheap three-year loans to
avert a credit crunch. ECB President  Mario Draghi  signaled last
week that officials don’t intend to add to stimulus for now,
stressing that it’s up the euro-area governments to implement
reforms that strengthen the foundations of the single currency.  Increasing the region’s rescue funds isn’t an option to
overcome the crisis, Dombret said.  “Policy makers should refrain from a wild goose chase in
pursuit of ever higher firewalls,” Dombret said. “Making the
firewalls higher and higher will not resolve the crisis” and
“only buys time until sustainable measures become effective,”
he said.  European leaders are struggling to devise a strategy to
overcome a fiscal crisis, now in its third year, that has forced
 Spain  to become the fourth member country to seek a bailout.
Officials are also facing uncertainty on the outcome of  Greece ’s
June 17 elections, which could hand more power to parties
opposed to conditions of the nation’s rescue package and
precipitate its exit from the monetary union.  Monetary policy  can’t substitute for national fiscal
policies, Dombret said. “This is true with regard to Spain, and
it is particularly true with regard to Greece,” he said.  “The country needs to stick to the agreed austerity and
structural reform measures -– no ifs, no buts,” he said.
“There is no basis for external aid without the agreed reform
program.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  