-- Bundesbank’s Dombret Says Aid to Spain Doesn’t Solve Euro Crisis
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-06-12T10:34:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/bundesbank-s-dombret-says-aid-to-spain-doesn-t-solve-euro-crisis.html
Bundesbank board member Andreas Dombret comments on monetary policy, the sovereign debt crisis
and the recapitalization of Spanish banks.  He made the remarks in an interview in  London  yesterday.  On the Spanish bailout:  “The developments over the weekend are welcome and should
help to assure investors. We should soon have data for the bank
recapitalization need.”  “It’s always better to take the big bath rather than a
shower and with this I mean it is important to get ahead of the
curve.”  “One has to distinguish between insolvency of the
government or the need for bank recapitalization - and the
solvency of the Spanish government is not in doubt. It is part
of the Spanish banking system that is in urgent need of
recapitalization.”  “The recapitalization of Spanish banks doesn’t mean that
the fundamental problems of the sovereign debt crisis in the
euro area are solved. This is about buying time. It is unclear
whether we are heading for a deeper fiscal integration in the
euro area. That is up to the leaders to decide on the 28th, 29th
of June at the EU summit in Brussels.”  On reform efforts in Europe:  “The important thing is not to just announce reforms but
to implement them. And so far I’m not fully convinced that the
time bought with the various bailouts and measures has been
wisely invested to solve the long-term issues of the crisis.”  On monetary policy:  “From our point of view, the Eurosystem has acted
decisively by cutting rates, introducing the LTROs or setting up
instruments like the SMP or the covered bond purchases program.
All of these contributed to stabilize the euro area and buy time
to solve the underlying problems.”  “So to those who ask what else the Eurosystem can do, I
say that we have done our part, now it’s up to the political
leaders to deliver on the fiscal and structural policy side and
decide on governance issues. This is why it can’t be a short-
term fix.”  On banking union:  “A banking union in itself is not a bad idea but it needs
to follow fiscal and political union.”  On Greece:  “If there was a Greek exit, purely hypothetically
speaking, the first-round effects would be manageable and this
would not be the beginning of a complete euro-area
disintegration. We also believe that second- and third-round
effects will be manageable if carefully approached.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in London at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  