-- Bundesbank’s Dombret Says ECB Has Done its Job to Solve Crisis
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-06-12T10:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/bundesbank-s-dombret-says-ecb-has-done-its-job-to-solve-crisis.html
Bundesbank board member Andreas Dombret said the  European Central Bank  has done its job to buy
time for governments to fix weaknesses in the euro’s
foundations.  “To those who ask what else the Eurosystem can do, I say
that we have done our part, now it’s up to the political leaders
to deliver on the fiscal and structural policy side and decide
on governance issues,” Dombret said in an interview in  London 
yesterday. “This is why it can’t be a short-term fix.”  The ECB has resisted pressure to step up its crisis
response at a time when the euro region’s debt turmoil is
forcing  Spain  to become its fourth member to seek a bailout. ECB
President  Mario Draghi  indicated last week that neither
interest-rate cuts nor additional longer-term refinancing
operations would be appropriate measures for now.  The ECB “acted decisively” when it lowered  interest rates 
to a record low of 1 percent, flooded banks with more than 1
trillion euros ($1.2 trillion) of cheap cash, and bought
sovereign and covered bonds to calm down markets, Dombret said.
“All of these measures contributed to stabilize the euro area
and buy time to solve the underlying problems,” he said.  Banking Union  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Francois Hollande  face the challenges of fighting the crisis by
pursuing the least costly way of achieving fiscal and political
union while appeasing their electorates. Before a summit in
Brussels this month, leaders have focused on the idea of a
banking union that would include a single European regulator,
euro-wide  deposit insurance  and a common bank resolution fund.  “A banking union in itself is not a bad idea but it needs
to follow fiscal and political union,” Dombret said. “So far
I’m not fully convinced that the time bought with the various
bailouts and measures has been wisely invested to solve the
long-term issues of the crisis.”  The intensification of the debt turmoil, now in its third
year, has now forced Spain to apply for external aid. Economy
Minister Luis de Guindos on June 9 asked for as much as 100
billion euros to help rescue the banking system of the region’s
fourth-largest economy. That bailout will come without
additional austerity requirements, European Union Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said yesterday.  Solvency Unquestioned  “One has to distinguish between insolvency of the
government or the need for bank recapitalization -- and the
solvency of the Spanish government is not in doubt,” Dombret
said. “It is part of the Spanish banking system that is in
urgent need of recapitalization.”  Still, “the recapitalization of Spanish banks doesn’t mean
that the fundamental problems of the sovereign debt crisis in
the euro area are solved,” he said.  Among persisting challenges for officials is uncertainty on
the outcome of Greece’s June 17 elections, which could hand more
power to parties opposed to conditions of the nation’s rescue
package and precipitate its exit from the monetary union. Polls
show Syriza, which pledges to cancel the terms of the rescue,
and  New Democracy , which wants changes made to the agreement,
vying for first place in opinion polls, with neither party
having enough support to govern outright.  While  Greece ’s potential exit from  Europe ’s monetary union
was previously taboo for policy makers, Draghi acknowledged last
month that the country could exit and signaled that the ECB
won’t compromise on its key principles to prevent that outcome.  “If there were a Greek exit, purely hypothetically
speaking, the first-round effects would be manageable and this
would not be the beginning of a complete euro-area
disintegration,” Dombret said. “We also believe that second-
and third-round effects will be manageable if carefully
approached.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in London at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  