-- Calderon Says G-20 Will Make Headway on European Crisis
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-06-12T21:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/calderon-says-g-20-will-make-headway-on-european-crisis-1-.html
Mexican President  Felipe Calderon 
said world leaders will make “significant” headway in
addressing the  European debt crisis  at a meeting next week and
called on countries to commit resources to the  International
Monetary Fund .  Calderon, who will host a Group of 20 summit in the Pacific
coastal city of Los Cabos on June 18-19, said  Mexico  will also
push for countries to adopt financial regulations to avoid
future crises.  “There will be very significant advances on the European
matter,” during the meeting, Calderon told reporters today at
the presidential residence in Mexico City. Mexico will work to
“establish concrete commitments to boost institutions,”
specifically the IMF, he said.  Greece ’s possible exit from the euro is casting a shadow
over the summit as Greeks go to the polls on June 17. World
leaders will be traveling to Mexico when the first results come
in. The euro region’s 100 billion-euro ($125 billion) bailout
plan for Spanish banks has failed to convince investors the debt
crisis won’t spread.  G-20 countries agreed during the IMF’s spring meetings to
more than double the lender’s war chest with $430 billion in
pledges. European governments committed $200 billion of the new
funds, although not all G-20 countries have pledged specific
amounts.  Measures to bolster  Spain ’s banks should be “finalized
quickly and fully explained to eliminate doubts and uncertainty
that still persist and that don’t allow it to be fully
appreciated,” Calderon said.  The euro area offered about 2.7 times the amount deemed the
minimum necessary for Spanish banks by the IMF in a report
released on June 8. Spain is the fourth euro member to request a
bailout.  The G-20 will shine a spotlight on Mexico and is the
biggest leaders’ summit in the nation’s history, said Calderon,
who’s scheduled to leave office in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  