-- California Democrats’ Budget Plan Cuts Reserve Sought by Brown
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-06-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/california-democrats-budget-plan-cuts-reserve-sought-by-brown.html
Democrats who control  California ’s
Legislature unveiled a plan to erase a $15.7 billion deficit
facing the most indebted U.S. state, while sparing some welfare
cuts proposed by Governor  Jerry Brown .  The plan, released yesterday, would reduce the rainy-day
fund to $614 million for the fiscal year beginning July 1,
instead of the $1 billion reserve Brown proposed. That would
make it unnecessary to cut some of the $2 billion in human
services, welfare and medical insurance for the poor that Brown,
a 74-year-old fellow Democrat, has sought.  The Assembly and the Senate, both dominated by Democrats,
plan to bring the package up for a budget committee vote as soon
as today, while top-level talks with Brown continue. Lawmakers
said they intend to vote on a budget June 15, the constitutional
deadline for them to pass a spending package.  “We are on track to pass a balanced budget on time,” Bob Blumenfield, a Los Angeles Democrat who chairs the Assembly
budget committee, said in a statement yesterday. “Our budget
eliminates the structural deficit, includes a modest reserve,
and differs only from Governor Brown’s plan by less than 1
percent of total spending. We are down to dotting the i’s and
crossing the t’s.”  Gil Duran , spokesman for Brown, said talks are continuing.  Brown announced May 14 that the deficit had ballooned to
$15.7 billion from the $9.3 billion he predicted in January, in
part because he overestimated how much tax revenue the most
indebted U.S. state would collect.  Higher Taxes  Brown’s plan to fill the gap depends on an initiative he’s
pushing onto the November ballot to temporarily boost income
taxes on top earners to the highest in the nation, and raise
sales levies that are now higher than all other states. Without
the taxes, he said he’d cut $6 billion, most of it from schools,
midway through the year.  The Democrats’ plan likewise relies on the revenue from the
tax increases, as well as the midyear cuts if the ballot measure
is rejected.  The governor also wants to slice $1.2 billion from health
care for the poor, $1.1 billion from welfare and in-home help
for the elderly and disabled, and $500 million from courts. He
is counting on reducing the state’s personnel costs by 5
percent, mainly by cutting workers’ hours.  A voter initiative passed in 2010 strips lawmakers of their
pay for every day they’re late in passing a budget past the June
15 deadline. Brown has until July 1 to enact the plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  