-- Canadian Natural Gas Rises From Six-Week Low on Weather Outlook
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2012-06-12T16:39:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/canadian-natural-gas-rises-from-six-week-low-on-weather-outlook.html
Canadian natural gas rose for the
first time in a week, rebounding from a six-week low, as warmer
weather was forecast for the  Great Lakes  area.  July gas in  Alberta  advanced 4.5 percent after a 4.9
percent drop yesterday to the lowest level since April 26. The
Midwest south to Texas and the Northeast will have temperatures
3 degrees Fahrenheit (2 Celsius) to 14 degrees above normal from
June 17 to June 21, MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,
Maryland, predicted in a note to clients today.  “It’s just a warm-up in the forecast that’s probably
causing us to give a bit of a bounce here, some short-covering
and some people bottom-fishing,” Brad Florer, a trader at
Kottke Associates LLC in Louisville,  Kentucky , said in a
telephone interview.  Alberta gas for July delivery gained 7.25 cents to C$1.69 a
gigajoule ($1.56 per million British thermal units) as of 11:45
a.m. New York time. Gas traded on the exchange is shipped to
users in  Canada  and the U.S. and priced on  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s
Alberta system. NGX gas is down 36 percent this year.  Natural gas for July delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  rose 3.9 cents to $2.257 per million Btu at 11:52 a.m.  “Plenty of heat remains on tap for Great Lakes and the
Ohio Valley back into parts of the Midwest in this period, with
some of this heat moving into the interior Northeast and eastern
Canada by late period,” Eric Wertz, a meteorologist at MDA
EarthSat, said in the note.  The high in Chicago on June 20 is forecast to be 88 degrees
Fahrenheit, 6 degrees above normal, according to  AccuWeather
Inc.  in  State College ,  Pennsylvania .  Alberta Volume  Volume on TransCanada’s  Alberta system , which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 16.1 billion cubic
feet at 11:30 a.m.  New York  time.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.12 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 1.73 billion cubic feet.  There was a shortage of 237 million cubic feet in available
capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system at  Kingsgate .
The system was forecast to carry 1.9 billion cubic feet today,
or 12 percent above normal capacity of 1.67 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy ’s British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 3
billion cubic feet at 10:35 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  