-- Canada Hiring Plans at Lowest Since 2010, Manpower Says
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-06-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/canada-hiring-plans-at-lowest-since-2010-manpower-says.html
Canadian employer hiring plans fell
to their lowest in two years, according to a survey by  Manpower
Inc. (MAN) , with schools and factories leading the retrenchment.  The share of companies planning to hire over the next
quarter exceeded those forecasting cutbacks by 12 percentage
points after adjusting for seasonal variations, the Milwaukee-
based employment-services firm said in a statement. That’s the
lowest share since the third quarter of 2010. Education and non-
durable manufacturing recorded the biggest declines in
intentions, Manpower said in the report.  Today’s report adds to evidence that Canada’s labor market
may be slowing amid concerns that the global outlook is
weakening. Employment rose by 7,700 jobs in May,  Statistics
Canada  said June 8 in Ottawa, following gains of 58,200 and
82,300 in the prior two months.  Mining had the best prospects among industries, with an
employment outlook of 23 percent, while education had the lowest
reading at 1 percent, the report showed.  The net employment outlook for non-durable manufacturers
fell to 4 percent from 10 percent the previous quarter,
according to the report. The net share of construction companies
anticipating a pick-up in hiring fell to 8 percent from 13
percent in the previous quarter.  While the third quarter survey is one of the most
“subdued” in more than two years, hiring plans remain
positive, according to Manpower.  “Job seekers should maintain confidence in the labor
market as employers throughout  Canada  anticipate the hiring pace
will remain upbeat through the summer,” Byrne Luft, a staffing
services executive at Manpower Canada, said in the statement.  The survey of 1,900 Canadian employers found 23 percent
intended to hire and 5 percent anticipated reductions, giving a
net outlook of 18 before seasonal adjustment. The results are
accurate within 2.2 percentage points, Manpower said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scanlan  at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 