-- CBS Is Said to Attract $2.7 Billion in Upfront Ad Sales
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-06-12T22:26:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/cbs-is-said-to-attract-2-7-billion-in-upfront-ad-sales.html
CBS Corp. (CBS) , owner of the most-watched
U.S. television network, drew about $2.7 billion in ad
commitments for next season at a rate increase of almost 10
percent, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  CBS, led by Chief Executive Officer Les Moonves, sold about
78 percent of its inventory for the season that starts in
September, said the person, who asked not to be named because
the numbers are private. Because a slightly lower amount of
inventory was sold compared with last year, the total dollar
figure was little changed from a year earlier, the person said.  Broadcast and cable networks released their 2012-2013
schedules last month during so-called upfront meetings with
advertisers, letting them book advance commitments for the
season. The upfront purchases guarantee rates for advertisers
that may be lower than what they would get later via what is
called the scatter market. Networks, meanwhile, get the
assurance of knowing that most of their ad time will be sold.  CBS, based in  New York , will add three dramas and one
comedy to its schedule next season. The company is adding the
fewest new shows of the four main broadcasters, relying instead
on its current crop of heavily watched programs.  The new dramas “Elementary,” “Vegas” and “Made in
Jersey” and a comedy called “Partners” will air on the
network in the TV season starting September, CBS Entertainment
President Nina Tassler said last month.  Football Boost  Fueled by the  Super Bowl  and a key football playoff game in
prime time, CBS is poised to draw the most viewers ages 18 to 49
next season for the first time in 20 years. The network, first
in total viewers for nine of the last 10 years, will lead its
competitors in advance advertising commitments from marketers
and ad rates, Moonves said on a May conference call.  CBS is bringing back 19 shows, including “Big Bang
Theory,” “Two and a Half Men” and “NCIS,” while canceling
“CSI: Miami” after the show had been on the air for 10 years.  CBS was expected to lead the four major networks in
advertising commitments, bringing in as much as $2.78 billion,
 Spencer Wang , an analyst in New York with Credit Suisse Group
AG, wrote in a May report.  The stock gained less than 1 percent to $32.46 at the close
in New York. CBS shares have advanced 20 percent this year.  CBS’s upfront sales were previously  reported  by AdAge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  