-- Centrotherm Eyes North Africa Orders, Sees Long-Term Shares Gain
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2012-06-12T17:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/centrotherm-eyes-north-africa-orders-sees-long-term-shares-gain.html
Centrotherm Photovoltaics AG (CTN) , a
German maker of machines for the solar-power industy, is in
talks for contracts in  Saudi Arabia  and North Africa.  Centrotherm, which has lost 50 percent of its market value
this year, is winning orders from “top players” in  Taiwan ,
China and  Europe  for its Centaurus upgrade package for existing
manufacturing lines, said Chief Technology Officer Peter Fath.
He expects more orders when upgrade deals become the “working
horse” for the next two to three years.  Solar industry share prices are “very favorable” for
long-term investment, Fath said today at the Intersolar
conference in Munich. “If you invest in the right ones, you
will gain, and Centrotherm for sure is one of the right ones,”
he said.  Centrotherm shares rose as much as 4.2 percent in  Frankfurt 
after his comments. Shares gained 0.7 percent, to 4.99 euros, at
the close.  Solar-cell and panel makers, Centrotherm’s clients, are
under pressure after governments in Europe and the U.S. trimmed
subsidies, worsening a glut of the devices that has already
slashed margins at the top five manufacturers. Centrotherm last
month posted a 42.9 million-euro ($54 million) loss before
interest and tax in the first three months of 2012 and said it
sees no improvement in the first half.  Centrotherm will benefit from fewer competitors as
consolidation in the industry speeds up, he said.  “We are not in the mood to make acquisitions,” he said.
“We have seen big competitors that have big problems in
integrating their acquisitions.”  Meyer Burger Technology Ltd., Europe’s biggest solar-panel
equipment maker, took as much as 60 million euros in charges
Nov. 8 related to the takeover of German rival  Roth & Rau AG. (R8R)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Munich at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Gelu Sulugiuc in Munich at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  