-- Chile Traders’ Inflation Outlook Drops With Oil: Santiago Mover
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-06-12T21:15:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/chilean-peso-fluctuates-as-spanish-debt-offsets-fed-speculation.html
Chilean traders’ inflation
expectations fell the most in three weeks as the price of oil,
the country’s biggest import, headed for its lowest closing
price since October.  The one-year breakeven inflation rate declined 11 basis
points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 2.67 percent at 4:21 p.m.
in Santiago. It was the lowest level since January. The two-year
breakeven inflation rate fell 10 basis points to 2.67 percent,
ending six days of increases. The forwards market for unidades
de fomento,  Chile ’s inflation-linked accounting unit, showed
traders expect consumer prices to rise 2.33 percent in 2012,
down from the 2.43 percent increase they predicted yesterday.  Chile relies on imports for almost all of its oil and gas.
The price of a barrel of  Brent crude  for July delivery fell 13
percent in the past month to $97.36. Consumer prices in Chile
were unchanged last month, surprising all 14 economists in a
 Bloomberg survey , who expected an increase.  “The market is readjusting expectations for inflation
based on international commodity prices like oil,” said Bret
Rosen, a strategist at Standard Chartered Plc in  New York . “Oil
feeds through into Chilean consumer-price inflation. You also
had a pretty good inflation print in May. There would have been
deflation if not for electricity prices.”  Unidad de fomento forwards are showing traders expect a
0.06 percent increase in prices this month. Chile’s second-
largest import is diesel, according to central bank data.
Chile’s peso fluctuated between gains and losses, trading little
changed at 504.10 per dollar as concern  Spain  will miss its
budget-deficit targets offset speculation the U.S. Federal
Reserve would do more to bolster the world’s economy biggest
economy.  Fitch View  European bond yields increased after Fitch Ratings Managing
Director  Ed Parker  said Spain will miss its budget deficit
target by a “substantial margin” this year and next, and Fitch
cut its  credit rating  on 15 Spanish banks. The yield on Spain’s
10-year bonds touched a euro-era high of 6.83 percent.  “Yields are rising everywhere, but there is also some
optimism that the Europeans or the Fed could take more
measures,” said Cristian Donoso, a trader at Banchile
Corredores de Bolsa SA. “We have lost our bearings a bit. You
just have to try to survive. This month is going to be extremely
intense.”  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  said in a Bloomberg
Television interview that he would support buying assets
including mortgage-backed bonds to generate faster job growth.  IMF on Chile  Chile is the most vulnerable country in  Latin America  to
the European banking industry, according to an April report from
the  International Monetary Fund . European bank claims on Chile
are worth more than 25 percent of the country’s gross domestic
product, according to the IMF.  International investors in the peso forwards market trimmed
short positions in the peso to $10.2 billion on June 8 from a
record $10.6 billion on the previous day. Local investors
including pension funds and insurers had a $17 billion long peso
position, little changed from a day earlier.  The peso is “very cheap” and may advance to as strong as
485 per  U.S. dollar , Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  Stamford , Connecticut, said
in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  