-- China Detains 2 for Wuhan Pollution Rumor, Daily Reports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-12T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/china-detains-2-for-wuhan-pollution-rumor-daily-reports.html
Police in the Chinese city of Wuhan
detained two people for spreading rumors that heavy pollution in
the capital of Hubei province was caused by an industrial
accident, a newspaper controlled by the local Communist Party
reported.  The  Changjiang Daily , supervised by Wuhan’s party
committee, said government departments denied rumors the smog
that covered the city June 11 was related to an industrial
accident or the leaking of toxic gases. The newspaper didn’t
give more information about the people detained or the rumors.
Tests showed the pollution was most likely caused by the burning
of straw and plant matter on nearby farms, the newspaper
reported.  China ’s government has pledged efforts to reduce pollution
while also increasing its bid to control the release of
information on emissions after toxic spills and health concerns
caused violent protests. Wu Xiaoqing, a vice minister of
environmental protection, last week called on foreign embassies
to stop publishing data on pollution, saying only the Chinese
government had the authority to do so.  “ Air quality  is a grim challenge for China,”  Liu Weimin ,
a spokesman for the Ministry of  Foreign Affairs , said at a
regular briefing in Beijing yesterday in response to a question
about pollution in Wuhan. “China has strived to improve air
quality from many aspects. After all, China is only at its
infant stage of industrialization hence it’s impossible to fix
the problem overnight.”  China, the world’s second-biggest economy, is the biggest
emitter of  greenhouse gases .  Air Quality  Air quality in Wuhan was the worst in a decade on June 11
as the level of particulate matter in the air surged to almost
four times the national standard, state broadcaster  China
Central Television  reported yesterday.  Monitoring by Wuhan’s environmental authorities found that
for each cubic meter of air in the city on the afternoon of June
11, there were 0.58 milligrams of matter 10 micrometers in size,
CCTV reported. The national standard for so-called PM10 matter
is 0.15 milligrams per cubic meter of air, according to CCTV.  The smog is expected to shroud the city for two more days,
CCTV reported, citing Ma Xuekuan, chief forecaster for the China
Meteorological Administration.  Pollution Protests  Health concerns stemming from industrial projects have led
to a number of violent protests in China. In December, police
fired teargas at villagers in the southern town of Haimen after
they refused to end a demonstration against the construction of
power plant they accused of harming the health of locals.  In September, villagers in eastern China’s Zhejiang
province overturned eight vehicles and damaged four police cars
during a protest against a factory owned by solar-panel
manufacturer JinkoSolar Holding Co., which they accused of
polluting a nearby river.  Lab analysis showed the increase in Wuhan’s pollution was
the result of a rising amount of carbon particles, which are
usually created by the burning of organic matter, according to
the Changjiang Daily. China is currently in the middle of its
winter wheat harvesting season, during which many farmers burn
stubble on their fields.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alfred Cang in Shanghai at 
 acang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  