-- China Policy Bank Dim Sum Sales Leap to Back Export Credit
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2012-06-12T05:22:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/china-policy-bank-dim-sum-sales-leap-to-back-export-credit-1-.html
Sales of yuan-denominated bonds in
Hong Kong by  China ’s policy banks jumped 187 percent this year
as the government moves to arrest stalling growth and the
lenders seek funds to help boost exports.  China Development Bank Corp. led 15.2 billion  yuan  ($2.39
billion) of Dim Sum sales by policy banks this year, almost
three times the 5.3 billion yuan of notes issued in the same
period of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Export-
Import Bank of China sold 2 billion yuan of Dim Sum bonds
yesterday while  Agricultural Development Bank of China  hired six
banks to manage an offering, two people familiar with the matter
said.  China’s economy  expanded 8.1 percent last quarter, the
slowest pace in almost three years, and the government cut
 interest rates  for the first time since 2008 last week. China
Eximbank plans to use the proceeds from its sale to fund yuan
export credits and for general corporate purposes, one of the
people said today. China Eximbank and Agricultural Development
Bank raised a total of 9 billion yuan in  Hong Kong  this year,
the data show.  “I expect these policy banks to come to this market more
frequently, similar to onshore, where it’s a monthly thing,”
said Jeffrey Yap, the Hong Kong-based head of  Asia  fixed-income
trading in Hong Kong at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. “It’s good
for building a curve of maturities and increasing liquidity in
the offshore market.”  Longer Tenors  China Eximbank sold 1 billion yuan of five-year notes to
yield 3.35 percent and 1 billion yuan of 15-year securities at
4.15 percent, the person familiar with the matter said, asking
not to be identified because the details are private. The sale
received more than 4.5 billion yuan of orders, the person said.  Three calls to China Eximbank’s press office in Beijing
went unanswered during normal office hours yesterday. Lin Fei,
the deputy general manager of the funds planning department at
Agricultural Development  Bank of China , didn’t immediately
answer a call to his offices in Beijing yesterday.  China Eximbank is the second issuer to offer investors 15-
year Dim Sum bonds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
China Development Bank Corp. was the first with a 1.5 billion
yuan offering of that tenor in January, adding 1 billion yuan to
the issue in March, the data show.  The average yield on offshore yuan bonds fell for four
straight days to 5.275 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes show. It reached a low this year of 4.7 percent March 6.  Market Rush  China Datang Corp. sold 1 billion yuan of three-year Dim
Sum bonds on June 8 which pay a 4.5 percent coupon, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. China’s Ministry of Finance plans to
offer more than 20 billion yuan of debt in Hong Kong in late
June or July, a person familiar with the matter said April 28.  “Policy banks are rushing to the market as the new issue
window re-opens and before the Ministry of Finance visits the
market,” said Suanjin Tan, a Singapore-based Asian fixed income
portfolio manager at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   Bank of China (Hong Kong) Ltd., Bank of Communications Co.,
Barclays Plc, BNP Paribas SA, HSBC Holdings Plc, ICBC
International and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc managed China
Eximbank’s Reg S sale, one of the people said.  Bank of China (Hong Kong), Standard Chartered Plc,
Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (Asia) Ltd., CCB
International Capital Ltd.,  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288)  and
Bank of Communications Co. are arranging the planned sale for
Agricultural Development Bank of China, the other person said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net ;
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  