-- China Car Prices Drop Most in Almost 2 Years, Agency Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-12T08:10:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/china-car-prices-drop-most-in-almost-2-years-agency-says.html
China  passenger-vehicle prices fell
the most in about two years because of a worsening glut at auto
dealerships, the nation’s top economic planning agency said.  Average retail prices in May fell 1.1 percent from April,
the steepest sequential drop since June 2010, Cheng Xiaodong,
head of auto-price monitoring at the National Development and
Reform Commission, said in a telephone interview today.
Automakers are overstocking cars at a time when dealers are
pessimistic about their sales prospects, he said.  The deepening price drops add to signs that Chinese
consumer demand for cars is lagging behind the rising wholesale
vehicle deliveries that automakers are reporting. China’s
biggest dealer association said last week that carmakers need to
scale back sales targets or sweeten incentives because the
worsening glut across the nation’s showrooms is unsustainable.  “The market is deteriorating quickly,” said Vivien Chan,
an analyst with SinoPac Securities Asia Ltd. in  Hong Kong .
“Price declines are no doubt adding more pressure on auto
dealer stocks.”  Zhongsheng Group Holdings Ltd. (881) , a Beijing-based luxury car
dealer, fell by as much as 6.1 percent in Hong Kong today, and
 Baoxin Auto Group Ltd. (1293)  declined as much as 3.4 percent to a
record low of HK$5.25.  In the  auto industry , month-on-month comparisons better
reflect the health of vehicle demand than year-on-year data,
NDRC’s Cheng said. Prices in May dropped 1.7 percent from a year
earlier, deepening from April and in line with the drop in
March, according to NDRC data.  Rising Inventory  Average inventory carried at Chinese showrooms exceeded two
months of sales by the end of May, compared with more than 45
days at the end of April, Luo Lei, deputy secretary general of
the state-backed China Automobile Dealers Association, said in
an interview on June 6.  Three days later, the official China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers reported that wholesale  deliveries  of
passenger vehicles in May climbed 23 percent from a year earlier
to 1.28 million units, defying an economic slowdown that’s
forced China to cut  interest rates , loosen lending restrictions
and pursue stimulus measures.  The auto shipments beat the 1.2 million average of seven
analyst estimates in a Bloomberg survey, the third straight
month shipments exceeded projections. Automakers, also known as
original equipment manufacturers, only disclose the number of
vehicles sold to Chinese dealers -- instead of consumers.  ‘Dangerous Strategy’  “We think this is a very dangerous strategy of the OEMs
channel stuffing the dealers in the hopes of selling more,” Ole Hui and Jeremy Yeo, Hong Kong-based analysts at  Mizuho Financial
Group Inc. (8411) , wrote in a report yesterday. “We think OEMs are due
for payback time and we may see production cuts and thus weaker
wholesale sales in” the second half of 2012, they wrote.  Dealers carrying Japanese brands were hit the hardest among
the foreign joint ventures, said Feng Han, Beijing-based
secretary general of China Auto Dealers Chamber of Commerce,
which has more than 2,300 members. Cars made by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) 
and General Motors Co. were the least affected by rising
inventory at dealerships, Han said.  Seeing Rebound  Ma Chunping, a spokeswoman for  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s joint
venture with China FAW Group Corp., said its dealership
inventory levels are between 0.7 to 1.2 months. Toyota’s
passenger-car partnership with Guangzhou Automobile Group Co.
isn’t experiencing any inventory problem, spokesman Chen Daohong
said.  Spokesmen at Nissan Motor Co. and Honda Motor Co. didn’t
immediately comment.  The automakers association sees the rebound as reflecting
an industry recovery from a slump that had kept January-to-April
shipments down from a year earlier, Deputy Secretary General Yao
Jie said in the association’s briefing June 9. A week earlier,
 Kevin Wale , head of  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s China operations, said
he’s “pretty optimistic” about Chinese consumer demand.  “I can’t see anything in the Chinese environment that’s
leading to an unusual decline in  consumer confidence ,” Wale
said in a May 31 interview in  Shanghai .  Inventory worries in China may be overblown, Macquarie
Group Ltd. wrote in a report June 11. Auto production lagged
wholesales by 40,000 units in May, and carmakers have “little
incentive to overstock their dealers with cars that cannot be
sold at targeted price points,” analysts Jake Lynch and Zhixuan
Lin wrote.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  