-- Clemens Lied to Protect Brand, U.S. Says as Trial Ends
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-06-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/clemens-lied-to-protect-brand-u-s-says-as-trial-ends.html
Jurors were urged both by lawyers
for  Roger Clemens  and by prosecutors to use common sense when
deciding whether the former pitching star intentionally lied to
Congress to cover up his use of steroids and human growth
hormone.  Before the jury began deliberating yesterday on a verdict
for the former New York Yankee, federal prosecutors said in
closing arguments that Clemens gave false testimony about using
performance-enhancing drugs to safeguard his image as one of
 Major League Baseball ’s best pitchers.  “Why? So as not to tarnish his name, that Clemens brand we
heard about,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Gilberto Guerrero said
during an hour-long presentation in federal court in Washington.
“He had to keep the secret safe -- the one he and Brian McNamee
knew.”  The jury of eight women and four men considered the case
for about 15 minutes before being excused for the day.
Deliberations resume this afternoon, U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  said.  Rusty Hardin , one of two lawyers for Clemens to deliver
closing arguments, accused the government of “horrible,
horrible overreach” -- going after him for challenging
accusations that he used performance-enhancing drugs.  “It is not arrogant to say ’I didn’t do it’,” Hardin
said. “It is not arrogant to pay a price to be here. It is not
arrogant to say ’I worked for 24 years to be the best there
was.’”  Minor Mistakes  Michael Attanasio, a lawyer for Clemens, said the
government, having failed to prove its case, sought to convict
Clemens on minor mistakes in his sworn testimony to Congress in
2008, such as whether he attended a pool party at a teammate’s
home 10 years earlier.  “Please don’t let them trick you with this evidence,”
Hardin said.  Hardin and Attanasio spent most of their two hours
attacking the credibility of Clemens’s accuser,  Brian McNamee .  Attanasio called McNamee, who trained Clemens for almost 10
years, “the definition” of reasonable doubt, and asked jurors
whether they’d rely on him for information on “one of the
graver matters” of their lives.  They said when McNamee was confronted by federal
investigators about his connection to drug dealers he made up a
story about Clemens. He kept adding to that story, they said.  “If you’re a really serious, serious pathological liar,
you take a little bit of truth and wrap a bunch of stuff around
it,” Hardin said.  He put up a chart of more than two dozen statements he said
were lies or errors McNamee made in his testimony.  Medical Waste  They ranged from McNamee saying he never kept drugs at his
home to testimony about how he retained medical waste from
injections he gave Clemens and other ballplayers.  Clemens, a seven-time Cy Young Award winner as the best
pitcher in his league, is charged with one count of obstructing
a congressional investigation into the use of performance-
enhancing drugs by professional athletes.  He’s also charged with three counts of making false
statements and of perjury stemming from his testimony to a House
panel. If convicted, he faces as long as 21 months in prison.  Jurors heard from 46 witnesses over 26 days of testimony.
They included former teammates of Clemens, such as  New York 
Yankees pitcher Andy Pettitte, Clemens’s wife, Debbie, and the
estranged wife of McNamee. Clemens, 49, didn’t testify.  ‘Drug Dealer’  Much of the government’s case turns on whether jurors
believe the testimony of McNamee, who prosecutors referred to
as “Roger Clemens’s drug dealer” and his “dirty little
secret.”  McNamee, who spent six days on the witness stand, told
jurors that he gave the ballplayer injections of steroids and
HGH during the 1998, 2000 and 2001 baseball seasons while both
men worked for the  Toronto Blue Jays  and the Yankees.  The prosecution’s evidence includes a needle and cotton
with Clemens’s DNA that tested positive for steroids. The
material was given to investigators by McNamee, who said he
saved needles, gauze and vials from one of the injections in
2001. He told jurors he kept some of the items in a Miller Lite
beer can that he took from the recycling bin in Clemens’s
apartment.  Misleading Statements  The charges include 13 false or misleading statements that
Clemens made to Congress in 2008 -- some involving denials of
drug use, others having to do with frequency of vitamin B12
injections and the pool party at the home of fellow Blue Jay
Jose Canseco’s Florida home in 1998.  The government’s only other witness directly tying Clemens
to using performance-enhancing substances is Pettitte, the
former All-Star pitcher currently playing for the Yankees after
a one-season retirement. Pettitte, 39, testified Clemens told
him that he had used HGH while the two were working out in
either 1999 or 2000.  Clemens testified under oath to Congress that he told
Pettitte it was his wife who used HGH. Under questioning by
Attanasio, Pettitte agreed there was a 50 percent chance he
misunderstood Clemens. Debbie Clemens testified that McNamee had
given her an HGH injection.  Yesterday, Guerrero told jurors that Pettitte’s long
friendship with Clemens accounted for his inconsistent
testimony.  ‘Like Brothers’  “Pettitte 100 percent heard correctly when his friend
confessed to drug use,” Guerrero said. “He didn’t want to
testify against his friend. They’re almost like brothers. You
think  Andy Pettitte  would put Roger Clemens in too much harm’s
way? He was almost jumping at the opportunity on cross
examination to say 50/50.”  Hardin told jurors that Pettitte’s testimony “takes him
out of the equation” for deciding Clemens’s guilt.  “Put Andy Pettitte over here, then what are you left
with?” he said. “Brian McNamee.”  Assistant U.S. Attorney Courtney Saleski, who spent about
an hour giving the government’s rebuttal argument, sought to use
McNamee’s damaged credibility to attack Clemens’s congressional
testimony that McNamee injected him with only vitamin B12 and
lidocaine.  “There can be no doubt that Roger Clemens is one of the
greatest pitchers in Major League Baseball so why would he let
Brian McNamee -- would you let that guy? -- inject him with
needles?” Saleski said.  Saleski said the main thing missing from the defense case
was anyone saying they saw McNamee inject Clemens with anything.  She also told the jury that it was Clemens’s decision to go
before Congress.  “Your common sense will tell you everything you need to
know about this case,” Saleski said. “Roger Clemens made a
gamble. He wanted to protect his brand. He wanted to protect his
livelihood. He did that at the expense of our Congress. He threw
sand in their eyes.”  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 1:10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  