-- Coast Guard Triples Reward in Proble of Fake Yacht Blast
-- B y   S t a c i e   S e r v e t a h   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-06-12T15:59:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/coast-guard-triples-reward-in-proble-of-fake-yacht-blast.html
The U.S. Coast Guard, saying the
reported yacht explosion off the  New Jersey  coast was a hoax,
tripled the reward to $3,000 for information leading to the
arrest of the person who made the distress call.  Crews spent about five hours searching after the Coast
Guard’s Vessel Traffic Service in New York got a radio call
about 4:20 p.m. local time yesterday from a ship identifying
itself as the Blind Date. The caller said the vessel was
sinking about 17 miles (27 kilometers) east of Sandy Hook and
that seven people were injured and all 21 aboard had abandoned
the yacht in life rafts.  More than 200 rescuers assembled mass-casualty reception
areas in  Newark  and Sandy Hook, preparing to receive injured
passengers, the Coast Guard said. Units from the  New York  City
Fire Department, New Jersey State Police and Nassau County
Police Department also took part in the search.  “We are quite sure it’s a hoax at this time,” Captain
Gregory Hitchen, deputy commander of the Coast Guard’s New York
region, said at a press conference today in  Lower Manhattan .  The search-and-rescue operation cost the Coast Guard at
least $88,000, Hitchen said, adding that the response was the
biggest for the New York area since at least 2007.  Risking Lives  “Sham sinkings, like bomb threats and other hoaxes,
needlessly risk the lives of first responders and waste
resources dedicated to keeping the public safe from harm,”
 Rebekah Carmichael , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman, said in an e-mail. “We are working with the Coast Guard and our
other law-enforcement partners who are looking into this matter,
and urge anyone with leads to contact the Coast Guard or the New
Jersey FBI immediately.”  A reward of $1,000 was  initially  offered. Making a false
distress call is a felony under federal law punishable by as
long as 10 years in prison, a $250,000 fine and reimbursement
for the cost of the search, according to the Coast Guard.  The radio call probably came from New Jersey or southern
New York, Hitchen said. A person identifying himself as the
captain gave a “convincing story,” detailing the explosion,
and saying people were injured with burns and that the boat was
sinking, he said.  A later call reported that three people had died and that
several had second- and third-degree burns, according to a
 statement  from the Coast Guard today.  A helicopter was at the site of the reported incident
within an hour of the distress call, Hitchen said. By 6:30 p.m.,
crews thought the report might be a hoax, though they continued
searching until about 10 p.m., he said.  There are many vessels named Blind Date, and investigators
are researching owners, Hitchen said. The Coast Guard is
“fairly positive” that both calls were from the same person,
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stacie Servetah in Trenton at 
 sbabula@bloomberg.net ;
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  