-- Congress Seen Defeating Purpose of New Mortgage Disclosure Law
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2012-06-12T16:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/congress-seen-defeating-purpose-of-new-mortgage-disclosure-law.html
U.S. voters ought to be able to find
out this week about the home mortgages of their senators and
representatives, information required under a congressional
ethics law enacted this year.  The results won’t be entirely satisfying. The two chambers
looked at the same law -- known as the Stop Trading on
Congressional Knowledge Act, or Stock Act -- and came up with
two interpretations of what it requires. As a result, members of
the House can reveal fewer details about their dealings with
mortgage lenders than their Senate counterparts.  That means that for House members, the residential mortgage
disclosure reports may not produce enough data to identify any
sweetheart rates like those Countrywide Financial used to give
to VIPs.  “Clearly, the purpose of this part of the Stock Act was to
allow folks to understand if members were getting a special deal
on a mortgage,” said  Bill Allison , editorial director for the
Sunlight Foundation, a Washington-based group that promotes
increased disclosures in government. “The fact that the way the
House has interpreted doesn’t allow you to do that kind of
defeats the whole purpose of the act.”  Neither chamber updated the preprinted forms that members
have to fill out to reflect that mortgages on personal
residences must now be disclosed. Instead, the House and Senate
ethics committees distributed separate memos instructing members
to report their mortgages.  ’Countrywide Fiasco’  Senator  Barbara Boxer , chairwoman of the Senate Ethics
Committee, sponsored the mortgage requirement, which was offered
as an amendment to a larger ethics bill. She said the
“Countrywide fiasco” -- revelations that some of her
colleagues were getting loans from Countrywide Financial Corp.
at rates not available to the general public -- spurred her to
draft the language.  “Because there’s no rule that personal mortgages be shown
on the disclosure form, all of this was quite a shock when it
all came out,” the California Democrat  said on the Senate floor 
Feb. 1.  The loans were used by Countrywide, acquired by  Bank of
America Corp.  in 2008, to “ingratiate” the lender to
“politically influential people who could help the company,”
former loan officer Robert Feinberg told House investigators.
Bank of America shuttered the VIP program after the acquisition.  Among those named as having received preferential loans:
 Franklin Raines , the former chief executive officer of  Fannie
Mae ; Democratic Senators  Christopher Dodd  of  Connecticut , who is
now retired, and  Kent Conrad  of  North Dakota , the former and
current Banking Committee chairmen; and California Republican
Representative Howard “Buck” McKeon, the chairman of the House
Armed Services Committee. Raines and McKeon have denied knowing
that they were receiving preferential treatment. The Senate
Ethics Committee cleared Dodd and Conrad of wrongdoing in 2009.  Disclosure Differences  Boxer and her panel’s top Republican,  Johnny Isakson  of
 Georgia , wrote the compliance guidelines for the Senate,
instructing their colleagues to list the name of the lender;
whether they took out a mortgage, refinance, home equity loan or
line of credit; the date of the loan; its interest rate and
discount points; the term of the loan; and its value within a
broad range.  “We did what we thought we should do,” Isakson said.  In the House, the Ethics Committee told members that the
law requires less disclosure: just the creditor, type of loan,
date incurred and amount. That’s the same information already
required for mortgages on rental properties.  No Comment  Dan Schwager, the House panel’s staff director and chief
counsel, said he couldn’t discuss why the committee opted to
require members of that chamber to provide fewer details than
the Senate is demanding.  “We don’t comment on internal deliberations,” he said in
an e-mail.  What the chambers have in common: Figuring out how much
money lawmakers owe on their mortgages will still be a bit of a
guessing game.  The lawmakers were require to report personal-residence
liabilities in broad ranges. The forms tell them to disclose
whether their mortgages are in the range of $101,000 to
$250,000, $251,000 to $500,000, $501,000 to $1 million, and so
on, with the top range being an unspecified amount greater than
$50 million.  Explanatory Memos  The offices of the House Clerk and the Secretary of the
Senate distributed this year’s disclosure forms before the new
ethics requirements became law on April 4. Along with what
amounts to last year’s form, the ethics panels issued memos
explaining the new requirements. To make it easier for staffers
to notice the change, the House’s disclosure forms included one-
sheet guidance on the new law printed in big letters on purple
paper.  “If you require people to disclose something, you ought to
be able to have a form that allows them to do that,” said
Allison.  Lawmakers would be responsible for complying with the new
law no matter what is printed on the form. And since both the
House and the Senate voted to change the law just weeks before
the forms had to be submitted, there shouldn’t have been much
confusion, Isakson said.  “The law mentions that personal mortgages are required,
and we sent out a memo to everybody in the Senate,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  