-- Continental’s Hamm Says U.S. Must Keep Tax Breaks for Oil
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-06-12T15:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/continental-s-hamm-says-u-s-must-keep-tax-breaks-for-oil-gas.html
The U.S. must retain tax breaks that
help independent oil and gas producers, said Harold Hamm,
chairman and chief executive officer of Continental Resources
Inc.  Companies should continue to be able to expense intangible
drilling costs rather than deduct them over time, said Hamm, who
also is an energy adviser to Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney .  “If we do away with those, we’ll start to stop this march
to energy independence that we’ve begun,” Hamm told the Senate
Finance Committee today in Washington, adding that he wasn’t
speaking for Continental or Romney.  In his prepared testimony, Hamm said he didn’t have an
opinion on tax provisions that benefit major oil and gas
companies’ extraction and global activities.  “These are not the tax provisions providing the capital
that is fueling America’s march to energy independence,” he
said.  Republicans and Democrats in Congress disagree on the broad
strokes of energy tax policy, with Republicans emphasizing the
domestic oil and gas production that has reduced dependence on
foreign oil over the past few years.  Democrats along with President  Barack Obama  support
incentives for renewable energy and urge repeal of tax breaks
that benefit oil and gas companies. Obama’s proposals would
raise more than $40 billion over the next decade.  Bakken Formation  Continental, which says it is the largest leaseholder in
the Bakken formation in  North Dakota  and Montana, would drill
about one-third less oil without the ability to expense drilling
costs, Hamm said.  Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat and chairman of the
committee, said the U.S. is still too reliant on fossil fuels.
He said energy tax incentives should perhaps be changed to be
more neutral regarding technology.  “ Tax reform  is an opportunity for the energy sector to
make real progress,” Baucus said. “It can move us further from
foreign oil.”  The administration’s efforts to change foreign tax rules
affecting U.S. oil companies are misguided, said former Senator
Don Nickles, an Oklahoma Republican who is a director of
 Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)   “Other foreign countries are going to be winning all the
international deals, and that would be a dumb thing for us to
do,” said Nickles, now a lobbyist who represents companies
including Exxon Mobil Corp. and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  