-- Covered Bonds Dominate European Sales as Corporate Surge Fizzles
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n   a n d   L o u i s e   M e e s o n
-- 2012-06-12T12:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/covered-bonds-dominate-european-sales-as-corporate-surge-fizzles.html
Covered bonds dominated Europe’s
corporate debt market as banks sold the relatively safe
securities after yesterday’s surge in non-financial deals
fizzled out.  Norwegian mortgage lender Terra Boligkreditt AS offered 650
million euros ($812 million) of seven-year covered bonds while
Deutsche Hypothekenbank AG of  Germany  sold 500 million euros of
the asset-backed securities with a five-year lifetime, according
to bankers involved in the transactions.  Aareal Bank AG (ARL) , a Wiesbaden, Germany-based real-estate
lender, is issuing 500 million euros of five-year covered bonds.  Yesterday’s short-lived rally in European credit following
news of the 100 billion-euro bailout for Spain’s banks was
enough to trigger the busiest day for corporate bond sales since
February. General Electric Capital Corp., a unit of the U.S.
conglomerate, together with phone operators France Telecom SA,
and Telecom Italia SpA were among borrowers that took advantage
of the boost in investor sentiment to raise money.  In other deals today, the European Financial Stability
Facility is raising at least 1 billion euros through a sale of
bonds due April 2037. The bailout fund has top credit ratings
from Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings and is graded a
level lower at AA+ by  Standard & Poor’s .  Among other unsecured fundraisings,  K+S AG (SDF) , Europe’s
biggest potash producer, is selling 500 million euros of 10-year
bonds, its first public issue in almost three years, a banker
with knowledge of the transaction said. French lender Banque
Federative Du Credit Mutuel SA offered five-year senior,
unsecured bonds due June 2017.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net ;
Louise Meeson in London at 
 lmeeson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  