-- Credit Agricole Seeks an End to Its Greek Imbroglio
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-06-13T19:35:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/credit-agricole-seeks-an-end-to-its-greek-imbroglio.html
In 2006, Georges Pauget, then  Credit
Agricole  SA Chief Executive Officer, bought Greece’s Emporiki
Bank, calling it a “perfect fit.” Six years on, the purchase
has put the French lender in the eye of a perfect storm.  A possible euro exit for Greece has made Credit Agricole
the foreign bank with the most to lose.  France ’s third-biggest
bank has 23 billion euros ($29 billion) of Greek loans on its
books, the largest such holdings for a foreign bank. Although
Greek loans represent about 3 percent of parent Credit Agricole
Group’s lending commitments, they amount to at least 40 percent
of the country’s private cross-border debt claims.  Gains made in the polls by Greece’s anti-austerity parties
before the June 17 election have raised the specter of the
country having to abandon the euro, driving Credit Agricole to
reassess support for its unit. Costs from Greece’s euro exit may
reach 6 billion euros for the bank, Citigroup Inc. analysts
Kinner Lakhani and Florent Nitu estimated.  “The Greek vote’s outcome will influence Credit Agricole’s
decision on whether to stay or to quit the country,” said
Jerome Forneris, a Marseille-based  fund manager  at Banque Martin
Maurel, which manages $8.5 billion euros, including Credit
Agricole shares. “If Greece exits the euro, what’s the interest
of keeping a unit there?”  Growth Quest  The bank is considering all options for Emporiki should
Greece leave the euro, including combining it with a local rival
or walking away, according to a person with knowledge of the
bank’s plans. The situation is in flux and nothing will be
decided until after the elections, said the person, who declined
to be identified because the deliberations are private.  Credit Agricole spokeswoman Anne-Sophie Gentil declined to
comment on the bank's plans.  Before today,  shares of the bank , based near Paris, tumbled
more than 78 percent since early October 2009, when Greece
signaled its borrowings were higher than estimated, triggering
 Europe ’s debt crisis. The  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index  fell 43 percent in the period. Credit Agricole
shares today rose 3.5 percent to 3.05 euros.  A quest for growth drove Credit Agricole and its French
rivals  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  to markets outside
their home turf in the last decade. French banks held $541
billion in private and public debt in Greece, Ireland,  Italy ,
 Portugal  and  Spain  at the end of December, the most by foreign
lenders, Bank for International Settlements figures show.  Argentina Exit  For Credit Agricole, founded in 1894 as a French farmers’
bank, the Greek imbroglio shows the pitfalls of its foreign
forays. A decade ago, after  Argentina  defaulted on its debt and
ended its peso peg to the dollar, Credit Agricole abandoned its
units there, Banco Bisel SA, Banco de Entre Rios SA and Banco
Suquia SA, taking a 106 million-euro hit, its website said.  The Greek situation may be stickier.  “Leaving by shutting the doors and handing the keys to
local authorities isn’t possible as in Argentina,” said Benoit Petrarque, an Amsterdam-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets
who has a “reduce” rating on the stock. “Reputation risk and
legal risks inside of the  euro zone  are much stronger.”  Jean-Paul Chifflet, 62,  Credit Agricole (ACA) ’s CEO since 2010,
told shareholders last month that the bank will continue
operations in Greece so long as it remains in the euro,
depositors trust banks and the French lender’s local unit has
access to the nation’s central bank’s emergency liquidity.  Emporiki Options  Credit Agricole got a break last week when it reached an
accord with Greek authorities that will let Emporiki access
emergency funds from the central bank should the need arise.  “It’s like an insurance policy, if there were deposits
outflows, they would be covered,” Citigroup’s Lakhani said.  Chifflet shrank funding, including capital, to the Greek
unit to 5.2 billion euros at the end of March compared with 11.4
billion euros a year earlier. He said he’s “personally involved
every day” in the unit.  Emporiki’s loans  -- close to 10 percent of  Greece ’s gross
domestic product -- exceed deposits, requiring Credit Agricole
to provide funding to help close the gap. Credit Agricole’s
accumulated losses from Emporiki represent on average more than
15 million euros for every one of the unit’s 337 branches. The
loss since 2008 is about 4,000 euros per client.  Credit Agricole may try to merge its Greek assets with a
local firm and exit the country, although finding a buyer won’t
be easy, said Julian Chillingworth, who helps manage 16 billion
pounds ($24.9 billion) at Rathbone Brothers Plc in  London .  Sufficient Reserves  “Possibly, Credit Agricole may like to sell the Greek unit,
if they find someone to get rid of it to,” he said. “But do
you see anyone interested?”  Parent Credit Agricole Group’s reserves are large enough to
withstand “extreme” Greek losses, Chifflet said.  And although the bank expects that Greece will remain in
the euro, the risk of “further adverse developments” may lead
it to reconsider its support to Emporiki and “its overall
strategy,” the Greek unit said in a statement last month.  Credit Agricole’s expansion in southern Europe also makes
it vulnerable to contagion worries. In Spain, its exposure
totals 11.3 billion euros, with “modest” real-estate risks.  The bank also holds a 20.6 percent stake in Spanish lender
Bankinter SA and about 20.5 percent of Portugal’s largest bank
by market value,  Banco Espirito Santo SA. (BES)   Its Parma-based Italian unit, although one of the country’s
most profitable retail banks, has its headquarters and a leading
market share in the region struck recently by earthquakes.  ‘Stratospheric’ Prices  Credit Agricole’s insurance unit holds 11.6 billion euros
of public debt from Greece, Spain, Portugal, Ireland and Italy.  “The ship is solid, but it’s starting to take on water,”
said Jacques-Pascal Porta, who helps manage 500 million euros at
Ofi Gestion Privee in Paris.  Mostly under state tutelage until the late 1980s, Credit
Agricole’s expansion picked up after its 2001 initial public
offering. Its biggest purchase remains the 16 billion-euro
takeover of Credit Lyonnais SA in 2003.  Credit Agricole, under the leadership of former CEO Pauget
and former Chairman Rene Carron, invested 2.2 billion euros in
2006 to buy a majority stake in Emporiki, the least profitable
of Greece’s top banks at the time. Since then, Emporiki has been
unprofitable every year except 2007, with cumulated net losses
for Credit Agricole of 5.3 billion euros.  “The prices paid in Greece and in Spain were
stratospheric,” said  Francois Chaulet , who helps manage about
200 million euros at Montsegur Finance, including Credit
Agricole shares. “Still, you can’t blame them for everything.
There was also a political will to create European champions.”  Complex Structure  The French bank’s complex structure partly explains some of
its expansions woes. Credit Agricole Group’s 39 French regional
banks own a 56 percent stake in the listed Credit Agricole SA.
About 2,500 small, local lenders closely held by their 6.7
million customers form the bulk of the regional banks. The heads
of the regional banks gather monthly to discuss strategy.  “You need to be reactive and to take rapid decisions,”
Porta said. “Their governance isn’t the most adapted to face
new challenges coming from bad choices abroad.”  Credit Agricole Group, the entity regulators and rating
agencies monitor to check compliance with international capital
and liquidity standards, had 54.2 billion euros of core Tier 1
capital, or 10.9 percent under Basel 2.5 standards, at the end
of March, it said May 11. It expects to reach a 10 percent core
Tier 1 ratio under stricter Basel III rules at the end of 2013.  First Loss  While Credit Agricole Group’s core Tier 1 ratio would
remain above 9 percent under Basel III in the event of a Greek
euro exit, the losses would widen the capital gap between the
listed bank and the group’s total reserves, Citigroup analysts
Lakhani and Nitu wrote. The group could support the listed bank
through a capital increase or through guarantees, they wrote.  Credit Agricole last year had its  first annual loss ,
scrapped its dividend and gave up its 2014 financial targets.
The parent group remained profitable.  The bank is closing most of its derivatives business.
Chifflet told investors it has cut all proprietary trading. At
the end of April, Credit Agricole achieved 91 percent of its
target to cut risk-weighted assets by 35 billion euros, part of
the effort to comply with stricter capital rules.  Chifflet has put forward the name of Xavier Musca, former
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s chief of staff, to join the
bank as deputy CEO overseeing international consumer-banking,
asset-management and insurance, Credit Agricole said today.  ‘Soldier On’  The bank’s board votes on the nomination next month. Musca
will bring “an essential managerial asset,” Ofi’s Porta said.  “He comes with the greatest degree of expertise,” Porta
said. “He knows the Greek dossier since he was at the heart of
French decision-making.”  Any euro-friendly outcome of the Greek ballot may also
provide an upside for Credit Agricole after Chifflet’s steps to
“clean” Emporiki, analysts and investors said.  In the first quarter, Emporiki’s deposits rose by 570
million euros as loans fell. Compared with 2006, Emporiki Bank’s
staff has shrunk 33 percent to 4,200. Strub, dispatched in early
2009 as Emporiki’s CEO, has cut quarterly labor costs to 66
million euros in the first quarter, a 31 percent drop from three
years earlier. In January, he got unions’ approval for a 10
percent wage cut with immediate effect.  “Credit Agricole can try to soldier on,” Chillingworth
said. “There isn’t much else they can do, right?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  