-- Czech Republic Beats Greece 2-1 for First Win at Euro 2012
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-06-12T18:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/czech-republic-beats-greece-2-1-for-first-win-at-euro-2012.html
The Czech Republic beat  Greece  2-1
today in Group A at soccer’s European Championship, rebounding
from a heavy defeat in its opening match against Russia.  Petr Jiracek and Vaclav Pilar got goals in the opening six
minutes in Wroclaw,  Poland , with substitute Fanis Gekas replying
for  2004 champion  Greece on 53 minutes.  The Czechs had opened with a 4-1 loss to Russia on June 8.
Russia plays co-host Poland in Warsaw later today.  Russia, which will guarantee a quarterfinal spot with a win
today, has three points with the Czech Republic, while Greece
and Poland each have with one point.  Fans scuffled ahead of Poland and Russia’s match. Witnesses
said at least three people were injured in sporadic clashes
around the city.  The  Czech Republic , beaten by Greece in the semifinals at
Euro 2004, took only three minutes to score its opening goal in
Wroclaw.  Tomas Hubschman split the Greek defense with a pass through
the middle and Jiracek collected the ball before sliding a shot
past goalkeeper Kostas Chalkias.  Greece, without two defenders who started its opening game
against Poland with Sokratis Papastathopoulos suspended and
Avraam Papadopoulos injured, was soon two goals behind.  Theodor Gebre Selassie attacked on the right flank and his
low cross was turned in by Pilar for his second goal in two
games.  Greece had to change its goalkeeper on 22 minutes, with
the 38-year-old Chalkias, the oldest player at the tournament,
suffering an injury and replaced by Michalis Sifakis.  Sifakis made his first save seven minutes later, from a
25-yard shot by  Tomas Rosicky .  The Czechs retained a two-goal lead at halftime, with
Greece having an score ruled out for offside five minutes before
the interval.  Greece was gifted a goal early in the second period
following a mistake by Petr Cech. The goalkeeper, who last month
won the  Champions League  with Chelsea, spilled a cross and Gekas
stroked the ball into an empty net.  Whereas the Czechs dominated the first half, Greece was
starting to pose the greater attacking threat but struggled to
create further chances.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 