-- Czech Central Banker Lizal Sees Risks in EU Regulation Efforts
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-06-12T09:33:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/czech-central-banker-lizal-sees-risks-in-eu-regulation-efforts.html
The European Union’s efforts to
introduce pan-European financial regulation may be a risk for
the Czech banking industry, central bank board member Lubomir
Lizal said.  Lizal was commenting euro-area debt crisis, domestic
economy and monetary policy in an interview in Prague yesterday.  On the euro-area crisis:  “The basic expectation is that we will probably see
several years of muddling through. This means a path of small,
gradual steps which may be needed to avert a catastrophe, but
aren’t enough to bring a fundamental solution to the crisis.  ‘‘Whatever steps we see now, they are still not reversing
the pessimistic  market sentiment . Even if there is a good
measure, it’s not enough to change the market mood.  ‘‘I’m skeptical we will see some internal impulse that
would change this. I’m afraid the only factor that could turn
market sentiment around would have to come from outside, for
instance a sudden acceleration in global economic growth.”  On regulation:  “We see a potential risk in proposals leading toward  pan-
European regulation of the financial sector, as under these
circumstances banks would be assessed as a whole group on the
European level.  ‘‘This would mean domestic regulators will have fewer
options to affect undesired behavior of such groups toward a
well-capitalized, or, even worse, undercapitalized, subsidiary
that the domestic regulator is responsible for.  ‘‘In  Europe , the general tendency at the time of crises
seems to be to invent new regulations, rather than to first
analyze whether the existing rules are sufficient, and whether
the authorities didn’t fail in imposing them.’’  On the Czech economy:  ‘‘The effects visible now are mainly through sentiment,
rather than through real economic links. While exports are
performing well, domestic demand is less than weak and
expectations aren’t too bright either.  ‘‘This means companies don’t see reasons for any massive
investments, which then reinforces negative sentiment.  ‘‘The Czech mentality is to try to prepare for the negative
possibilities rather than for the more optimistic ones. At the
time of negative news, a typical reaction is to be even more
cautious, to be prepared for even worse situation.  On the economic outlook:  ‘‘The first-quarter GDP reading was significantly worse
than we thought. The 0.7 percent annual decline was quite a
negative surprise.  ‘‘I assume there will be another change in the tax rates,
mainly the value-added tax, which will preserve the difference
between the headline inflation and the monetary-policy inflation
next year. What I consider important is how this higher
inflation affects wage negotiations.  ‘‘That will be a reflection of inflation expectations,
whether there has been a shift upwards, or whether people are
aware that the current situation shouldn’t spark higher wage
demands.  ‘‘Since the current forecast was published, we have seen
lower GDP data, inflation that was more-or-less in line with
expectations, and quite a significant weakening of the koruna,
which is easing monetary conditions.  ‘‘The economy is performing worse than expected, while the
overall situation has led to a weaker koruna. The latest
forecast assumed a decline in  interest rates , but it also
assumed an  exchange rate  at a different (stronger) level.  ‘‘That said, the exchange rate may be volatile, and move in
either direction relatively quickly.  ‘‘What will be important for my decision is to analyze the
effects of these two factors.  ‘‘The exchange rate is affected by general market mood and
the situation in Europe. Investors have a tendency to view any
European assets as less credible, and the sentiment now seems to
be skewed toward koruna weakening rather than appreciation.’’  ‘‘The GDP data were also a negative signal, and will
probably be a factor keeping the exchange rate at levels weaker
than assumed in our forecast.  ‘‘Still, I would consider the risks to the forecast to be
rather on the anti-inflationary side at this moment, mainly
because of the weak demand in the domestic economy.’’  On fiscal policies:  ‘‘In a small and open economy, the government doesn’t
really have any options on how to change the trends in the
economy quickly.  ‘‘Today, in Europe, we are paying the price for past
policies, for fiscal deficits from years of economic growth.
This is now limiting the room for governments to allow deficits
to grow and smooth the economic cycle in years of recession.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  