-- Dell Rises on Start of 8-Cent-a-Share Quarterly Dividend
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-06-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/dell-rises-on-start-of-8-cent-a-share-quarterly-dividend.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  rose in late trading after
the third-largest personal-computer maker said it will pay a
dividend for the first time, following peers such as Apple Inc.
and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  in returning more cash to shareholders.  The quarterly payout of 8 cents a share will begin in the
period that ends in October, the  Round Rock , Texas-based company
said in a statement. The dividend’s yield would be 2.7 percent,
based on the stock’s closing price yesterday. Shares climbed as
much as 6.6 percent in extended trading after the announcement.  Dell is awarding a dividend as an incentive to stockholders
after shares fell 23 percent in the past year. With revenue
estimated by analysts to drop 3 percent this year, Chief
Executive Officer  Michael Dell  has been acquiring makers of data
storage, networking gear and  business software  to diversify
beyond PCs and revive growth. At the company’s annual meeting
last July, a shareholder proposal for a dividend was defeated.  “It’s been something investors have asked about for years
now,” said  Jayson Noland , an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co.
in San Francisco. “The reaction will be positive.”  Dell may generate $2.25 a share in free cash flow this
year, or about 19 percent of its market value, according to
Noland, who has a neutral rating on the shares.  “You don’t typically see companies with free cash flow
yields that high, and when you do, investors are saying, ‘We
don’t think we’re ever going to see this free cash,’ ” he said.  The company ended the fiscal first quarter with $17.2
billion in cash and investments, Chief Financial Officer Brian Gladden said on a conference call last month.  Technology Dividends  Dell follows other large technology companies in starting
or increasing dividends after amassing cash previously earmarked
for research, development and acquisitions.  Apple, the world’s largest company by market value, in
March said it would pay its first dividend in 17 years, heeding
investors who urged it to return part of its cash hoard.
Microsoft, the biggest software maker, in 2003 acceded to
shareholders’ demands for a cash return by paying its first
dividend. It raised the  payout  by 25 percent last year.  “With the cash flows we’ve been generating, up 5 percent
last year, we’re very happy to initiate this dividend and return
more capital to shareholders,” Dell said yesterday in an
interview on CNBC. He and CFO Gladden will update analysts on
the company’s outlook a meeting today in Austin,  Texas .  Dell  shares  climbed as high as $12.76 in extended trading
after closing at $11.97 yesterday in  New York . The  stock  has
dropped 18 percent this year.  Returning Cash  Through the dividend and stock buybacks, Dell said it plans
to return 20 percent to 35 percent of free  cash flow  to
investors, up from a prior projection of 10 percent to 30
percent. Over the past four quarters, Dell has generated $4.9
billion in cash flow from operations, the company said.  The board has periodically considered paying a dividend,
and the company plans to continue its share repurchase program,
said  David Frink , a Dell spokesman.  As smartphones and tablets siphon sales from PC makers,
Dell’s sales growth has slowed, with revenue rising just 1
percent in fiscal 2012. The company lost share in the global PC
 market  in the first three months of the year, and it now trails
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , according to market
researcher Gartner Inc. Dell is expanding in enterprise
technology to offer corporations a broader lineup of products
and services to run technology operations.  Hewlett-Packard’s dividend  yield  is 2.5 percent, while
Lenovo’s is 2 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In February, Dell projected fiscal 2013 earnings excluding
some items of at least $2.13 a share. The company in May said
revenue for the quarter ending in July would be $14.7 billion to
$15 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  