-- Detroit Debt Cut by Fitch in Face of Possible Default This Week
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-06-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/detroit-said-to-delay-600-million-bond-sale-for-sewer-1-.html
Detroit had its debt reduced deeper
into junk status by  Fitch Ratings , which cited the city’s
potential default on a bond payment June 15 because of a legal
dispute with the state over a financial rescue plan.  Mayor Dave Bing ordered the city’s top lawyer to drop a
suit challenging the agreement, and said he’s consulting
“outside legal experts” to go around her. Michigan Governor
 Rick Snyder ’s administration said if the challenge isn’t
dropped, the state will withhold $80 million.  The stalemate may leave the city unable to pay vendors or
employees, Chief Operating Officer  Chris Brown  said June 11, the
 Detroit Free Press  reported. Fitch, in its explanation for the
ratings cuts yesterday, cited the suit by Corporation Counsel
Krystal Crittendon.  “The fragility of both the city’s financial position and
the relationships among branches of city government and between
the city and state is highlighted by the instability triggered
by the city attorney’s suit,” according to the report. “Even
if this Friday’s debt service payment is made, unless the suit
is settled promptly Fitch believes the city will likely
imminently face another liquidity crisis.”  Fitch cut by two steps to CCC from B about $511 million in
unlimited tax general-obligation bonds. The company also reduced
$453 million limited tax general-obligation bonds two steps to
CC from B-.  In addition, $1.5 billion in pension obligation
certificates were cut three steps to CC from B, Fitch said in a
statement. The rank is eight levels below investment grade and
indicates an elevated  default risk .  ‘Working Aggressively’  While the city faces a cash-flow crisis, a bond default is
not near, said Naomi Patton, a spokeswoman for Bing. The mayor
and the state are “working aggressively to keep the city from
running out of cash,” she said in an e-mailed statement.  In April, the city and state reached a deal to avoid the
appointment of an emergency manager with broad powers to cut
spending and run operations.  The city can’t legally enter into the agreement because the
state owes it money, including $244 million in revenue sharing,
$4.7 million in water and sewer fees and $1,225 in delinquent
parking fees for state vehicles in the city,  Detroit  attorneys
argued in Crittendon’s lawsuit.  Bing, in a June 11 letter to Crittendon made public
yesterday, said she overstepped her authority and put the city’s
financial stability at risk.  Expecting It  Unless the complaint is withdrawn, the state will withhold
$80 million to repay interim bonds sold to keep the city
solvent, state Deputy Treasurer Thomas Saxon wrote in a June 7
letter to Detroit’s chief financial officer, Jack Martin.  A procedural hearing is scheduled today in Ingham County
Circuit Court. The state capital, Lansing, is in that county.  Because of the legal challenge, the rating downgrades
“were not totally unexpected,” Brown, Detroit’s operating
officer, said in a statement.  In the face of the crisis, the city yesterday delayed the
sale of about $600 million in bonds for its water and sewer
system. The sale had been planned for tomorrow.  “We just wanted to give the market more time to react to
the headline news,” said Matthew Schenk, the chief operating
officer of Detroit’s water and sewer department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  