-- Deutsche Telekom Sees Obstacles to French Network Merger
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-06-12T16:53:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/deutsche-telekom-sees-obstacles-in-france-telecom-network-merger.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  said a
combination of its German network with  France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s
domestic system to create Europe’s largest single network would
create little value and be too difficult to manage.  “I’m not sure there are many advantages for both parties
because you get to limits,” Niek Jan  van Damme , Deutsche
Telekom’s head of Germany, said in an interview in Cologne
today. “The management of a bigger network normally has more
challenges than a smaller network.”  France’s new Industry Minister Arnaud Montebourg favors
France Telecom merging with its German counterpart to create a
group modeled after  European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. (EAD) ,
Journal du Dimanche said June 10. Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom
and Paris-based  France Telecom  already cooperate on joint
purchasing of 13 billion euros ($16 billion) worth of items
including handsets and infrastructure every year. They also co-
own the largest U.K. phone operator, Everything Everywhere.  Van Damme said he couldn’t say whether Deutsche Telekom’s
current alliance with France Telecom will lead to deeper
integration. He declined to comment on the prospect of a full
merger. The German government  owns  32 percent of Deutsche
Telekom, while France controls 27 percent of its biggest phone
company through a direct stake and another held by the sovereign
fund Fonds Strategique d’Investissement.  Low Valuations  The valuation of European phone companies has fallen during
the region’s debt crisis, with the 19-member  Bloomberg Europe
500 Telecom Services Index (BETELES)  near the lowest in three years. That
has invited investors such as Carlos Slim’s America Movil SAB,
which last month made an offer to increase its stake in Royal
KPN NV, and may facilitate the return to large intra-European
telecommunications deals reminiscent of  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s
1999 takeover of Mannesmann AG and  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s 2005 move on
O2 Plc.  Deutsche Telekom shares jumped 1.7 percent in Frankfurt
today, while France Telecom gained 1.5 percent in Paris.  The French Minister discussed the ideas of combining the
companies in a June 4 meeting with France Telecom Chief
Executive OfficerStephane Richard, Journal du Dimanche
reported, without saying where it got the information. A
representative at Montebourg’s ministry couldn’t immediately be
reached today for comment.  Cost Pressure  Europe ’s former phone monopolies are under pressure to cut
costs as the crisis saps demand for services. A combination of
Deutsche Telekom and France Telecom would create a company with
 sales  of more than 100 billion euros, assets covering most
European markets and stretching from the U.S. to the Middle
East.  “Even if there are numerous topics of discussion and
collaboration between Deutsche Telekom and France Telecom, there
is no discussion about a merger,” Tom Wright, a France Telecom
spokesman, said today.  Members of Deutsche Telekom’s supervisory board have
discussed how to deepen the cooperation with France Telecom,
according to a person familiar with the situation, who declined
to be identified because it’s an internal matter.  Suggestions include obtaining access to emerging markets
through  France  Telecom’s network, cross-border phone service
free of roaming charges, joint negotiations with content
providers and building shared fiber-optic networks in border
regions, according to a document obtained by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  