-- Diageo Targets Africa’s Women Drinking to Independence
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-06-12T23:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/diageo-targets-african-women-drinking-to-independence-retail.html
Three glamorous women stroll past
the bouncers into the VIP lounge. Rejecting the offer of a beer,
they reach for a sparkling drink in a fluted glass before
hitting the stage to sing to an adoring audience.  It’s not a scene from a music video, but  Diageo Plc (DGE) ’s sales
pitch to Kenyan women. The world’s biggest distiller introduced
Snapp, an apple-flavored drink, to target female consumers as a
more profitable alternative to beer, the predominant alcoholic
beverage across Africa. The “Snapp Sisters” in the ads
represent a wave of independent women, Diageo says, with their
own money to spend and decisions to make.  “Women are thinking about themselves in a new light,”
Cristina Diezhandino, Diageo’s head of marketing in Africa, said
in an interview in  London . With an estimated 100 million women
above legal purchase age, there’s a growing sense of
empowerment, she said, allowing women to choose what to drink
and how. “They’re relying on their own means.”  Diageo, better known for Smirnoff vodka and Johnnie
Walker whisky, already sells spirits, Tusker and Serengeti beers
and Guinness stout in  Africa , where it got almost 14 percent of
sales last year. It created Snapp as a cocktail-like option for
female drinkers as booming economic growth across the continent
elevates more people into the middle class and allows women to
be fiscally independent.  Kenya ,  East Africa ’s largest economy,
is targeting annual economic growth of 10 percent by 2030.  Leaves on Label  Snapp, which London-based Diageo started selling in Kenya
in April, has an  alcohol  content of approximately 5 percent and
costs about the same as mainstream beer in the country.
Translucent and fizzy, it comes in a bottle similar to Smirnoff
Ice with a label decorated with leaves. Diageo suggests serving
the drink in tall Champagne-style flutes, as in the ad, adding
to the visual cues of glamour and luxury.  Tapping a female market effectively has been “the holy
grail for the alcohol industry forever,” said Spiros
Malandrakis, an analyst at Euromonitor International. “Most
advertising campaigns in the past have had a very masculine
approach. However, I’m a bit skeptical about female-only
launches.”  Diageo said it’s possible to create a “bilingual”
campaign to appeal to men as well, though a push focused on
women isn’t an issue. Africa is a “big market, but this idea of
strong women making decisions is universal,” Diezhandino said.
“I have high hopes for Snapp.”  The company’s  African net sales  rose to 1.36 billion pounds
($2.1 billion) in fiscal 2011, almost equal to the Asia-Pacific
region, while revenue fell in  Latin America  and the Caribbean.  Nigeria Next  Diageo declined to discuss how much it has invested in the
brand, which is being rolled out to thousands of bars across
Kenya. Nigeria may be next, it said. Aside from Smirnoff Ice,
which isn’t aimed specifically at women, the company says there
aren’t other products like Snapp on the market in Africa.  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , though, is selling Redd’s, a malt-based,
apple-flavored drink, in Kenya after introducing it in
neighboring  Tanzania  in 2005. It’s a “premium” product in
Africa, the company said, compared with Diageo’s mainstream
pricing, and comes in different fruit flavors. The brand
sponsors the Miss Tanzania contest and is pitched as a stylish
drink in a green, beer-like bottle.  Mozambique’s Laurentina Preta beer is SABMiller’s fastest
growing brand in Africa and is increasingly favored by female
drinkers, the brewer’s head of Africa Mark Bowman said in March.  Smirnoff Ice has been suffering in Africa, contributing to
a 17 percent drop in ready-to-drink volumes across the continent
in the second half of 2011, Diageo said. Diezhandino attributed
that to a decline in the more mature market of  South Africa ,
saying the drink is “quite successful” in other countries.  New Drinkers  Marketing and recruiting new drinkers is a priority for
beverage makers as sales growth wanes in the U.S. and Europe
thanks to economic turmoil, maturing tastes and competition.
Diageo has targeted different demographics in the U.S., creating
products like Qream for African American women and Nuvo, a
sparkling vodka liqueur popular in Venezuela and  Mexico . Diageo
also says it needs to win business from a growing Hispanic
population in the U.S. Now it’s applying the same sophisticated
marketing to the less developed yet faster-growing countries of
sub-Saharan Africa.  “I’m surprised they think it’s a big enough” market in
emerging middle-class female consumers in Africa, said Jonny
Forsyth, an analyst at  Mintel . Diageo may have the opportunity
to develop its own audience, he said, though it could run into
cultural resistance to women drinking on a continent where many
consumers shun alcohol for religious reasons.  Still, the introduction “makes sense as, although the beer
category is really massive, you can get women drinking more
sophisticated products,” Forsyth said. “We also know from
research that women like much sweeter tastes.”  Mixing Your Own  Ready-to-drink products have tended to come later to
market in developed countries, where consumers are accustomed to
mixing their own drinks, according to Euromonitor. Winemakers
also offer an alternative to spirits, Malandrakis said, with
 Chile ’s Vina Concha & Toro SA opening an office in South Africa
to corner more international sales.  “In  Europe , we’ve gone through this transformation into
cocktails in a can and it worked to the benefit of distillers,”
Malandrakis said. “In Africa, they could use them as
introductory steps to people getting into their international
spirits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  