-- Diesel Engine Exhaust Causes Lung Cancer, WHO Agency Says
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-06-12T19:37:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/diesel-engine-exhaust-causes-lung-cancer-who-agency-says.html
Exhaust from  diesel engines  causes
lung cancer, a  World Health Organization  agency said for the
first time, citing a review of studies.  Diesel exhaust also was linked to an increased risk of
bladder cancer, the  International Agency for Research on Cancer ,
based in Lyon,  France , said in a  statement  today. The group
published the findings after a review over eight days by a panel
of scientists. An earlier review, in 1988, classified diesel
engine exhaust as “probably carcinogenic.”  The agency isn’t providing guidelines on what level of
exposure is carcinogenic, leaving it up to national and
international regulatory authorities to weigh its conclusion,
Christopher Wild, director of the agency, told reporters today
on a conference call.  “The scientific evidence was compelling and the working
group’s conclusion was unanimous: Diesel engine exhaust causes
lung cancer in humans,” Christopher Portier, chairman of the
IARC working group, said in the statement. “Given the
additional health impacts from diesel particulates, exposure to
this mixture of chemicals should be reduced worldwide.‘‘  The review of older studies may not take into account
advances in diesel technology over the last decade,  Steve
Hansen , a spokesman for the  Diesel Technology Forum  in
 Washington , said in an e-mailed statement. The group represents
global diesel engine manufacturers, automakers and oil refiners.
Members include  Deere & Co. (DE) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  BP Plc. (BP/)   Lower Emissions  Nitrogen oxide emissions from heavy-duty trucks and buses
have been reduced by 99 percent and particulate emissions by 98
percent over the last 10 years, Hansen said.  While the amount of particulates and chemicals are reduced
with these changes, it is not yet clear how they may translate
into health effects, the IARC said.  ‘‘Research into this
question is needed.’’  Existing vehicles without these modifications will take
many years to be replaced, particularly in less-developed
countries where regulatory measures aren’t as stringent, the
IARC said.  Gasoline engine fumes are ‘‘possibly carcinogenic,’’ the
agency said, reiterating its 1988 finding.  Cancer killed 7.6 million people worldwide, the leading
cause of death globally in 2008, the most recent year available,
the WHO said.  Lung cancer  was the most lethal type, accounted
for 18 percent of all  cancer deaths , the agency said.  The IARC had been planning since 1998 to re-evaluate the
cancer-causing potential of diesel fumes. The concern was re-
emphasized by the publication in March of results from a U.S.
National Cancer Institute study that found exposure to diesel
fumes increased risk of death from lung cancer in  miners , the
agency said.  By classifying cancer risks, the IARC provides scientific
advice to governments. The agency lists substances as
carcinogenic, probably carcinogenic, possibly carcinogenic, not
classifiable and probably not carcinogenic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  