-- Dimon Says JPMorgan Traders Didn’t Understand Risks
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-06-12T22:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/dimon-says-jpmorgan-let-people-down-on-faulty-credit-trades.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  said traders in a London unit responsible
for a $2 billion loss didn’t understand the risks they were
taking and weren’t properly monitored.  “This portfolio morphed into something that, rather than
protect the firm, created new and potentially larger risks,”
Dimon said in prepared remarks ahead of his appearance tomorrow
before the Senate Banking Committee. “We have let a lot of
people down, and we are sorry for it.”  Lawmakers plan to question Dimon at hearings this week and
next about the bank’s blunders on credit derivatives in its
chief investment office after he initially called April news
reports about the trades “a complete tempest in a teapot.”
Shares of the bank, the biggest in the U.S., have dropped 17
percent since Dimon disclosed the mounting losses May 10,
lopping about $26.5 billion from the firm’s market value.  “CIO’s traders did not have the requisite understanding of
the risks they took” on bets that were supposed to hedge credit
risk, Dimon said. “When the positions began to experience
losses in March and early April, they incorrectly concluded that
those losses were the result of anomalous and temporary market
movements.”  Dimon, who’s also set to face the House Financial Services
Committee on June 19, finds himself in the middle of a renewed
debate about whether the so-called Volcker rule, which would
curb trading by deposit-taking banks, should be tightened.
While Dimon didn’t comment on the size of the loss from the
trades, he said the second quarter would be “solidly
profitable.”  ‘Lessons Learned’  “The lessons learned from the recent failures in risk
management at JPMorgan Chase will be an important input into
efforts to design the Dodd-Frank Act reforms including a strong
Volcker rule,” U.S. Treasury Department Deputy Secretary Neal Wolin told the Senate panel last week.  The bank instructed the CIO in December to reduce its risk-
weighted assets to prepare for new international capital rules.
Instead, the office in mid-January “embarked on a complex
strategy that entailed adding positions that it believed would
offset the existing ones,” Dimon said. The portfolio instead
got larger and the problem got worse, he said.  Dimon said that the risk committee structures and processes
were not as robust in the CIO as they should have been. The
division’s London team built up a book of  credit derivatives 
that became so large that employees couldn’t unwind it without
roiling markets or incurring large losses, current and former
executives have said.  ‘Poorly Conceived’  The strategy for reducing the portfolio was “poorly
conceived and vetted,” Dimon said. “The strategy was not
carefully analyzed or subjected to rigorous stress testing
within CIO and was not reviewed outside” the division.  [To read Dimon’s full testimony, click  here ]  Risk oversight personnel were “in transition” and the
derivatives credit portfolio responsible for the loss should
have “gotten more scrutiny from both senior management and the
firmwide risk control function,” he said.  The position of chief risk officer inside the CIO was a
revolving door, with at least five executives holding the job in
six years, people familiar with the matter said. Irvin Goldman,
appointed in February and replaced in May, had been fired in
2007 by brokerage Cantor Fitzgerald LP for money-losing bets
that led to a regulatory sanction of the firm, said three people
with knowledge of the matter. Goldman wasn’t directly accused of
wrongdoing.  Drew, Macris  Chief Investment Officer Ina Drew retired after the loss
was disclosed and was replaced by  Matt Zames , who was co-head of
fixed-income trading in the investment bank. Zames told staff
that top London-based trading executive Achilles Macris would
hand off duties.  “When we make mistakes, we take them seriously and often
are our own toughest critic,” Dimon said. “While we can never
say we won’t make mistakes -- in fact, we know we will -- we do
believe this to be an isolated event.”  JPMorgan’s biggest competitors, including Bank of America
Corp., Citigroup Inc. and  Wells Fargo & Co ., have said their
corporate investment offices avoid using the kind of derivatives
that led to the trading losses and buy fewer bonds exposed to
credit risk. The rivals said their offices don’t trade credit-
default swaps on indexes linked to the health of companies.  Government Probes  Government investigators are scrutinizing how long senior
executives knew about the CIO’s swelling bets before the losses
approached $2 billion. One focal point is why the CIO’s so-
called value-at-risk formula used to calculate potential losses
was altered in this year’s first quarter, cutting the reported
risk by half.  When the bank reported first-quarter earnings, the new
model showed an average daily VaR within the CIO of $67 million,
about where it stood in the previous period. Dimon said May 10
that the bank then reviewed the effectiveness of the new model,
deemed it “inadequate” and decided to return to the previous
version. On that basis, VaR doubled to $129 million.  Government investigations of JPMorgan include the  Federal
Reserve ’s study of internal oversight, the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency’s look into trading, and the
Securities and Exchange Commission’s examination of why the bank
changed internal risk gauges this year. The  Department of
Justice  and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission also are
conducting inquiries.  Investors and bankers, including Dimon, have speculated
that the loss may hurt efforts to soften restrictions imposed by
the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, including the law’s so-called Volcker
rule, which limits lenders from making bets with their own money
and was designed to head off a repeat of the financial crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in Washington at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  