-- LDK Leads Surge on First Solar Demand in Europe: China Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-06-12T20:53:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/ldk-leads-surge-on-first-solar-demand-in-europe-china-overnight.html
LDK Solar Co. (LDK)  and  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) 
led gains in Chinese equities traded in New York, sending the
benchmark index to the highest level in two weeks, after a U.S.
competitor said demand from Europe unexpectedly grew.  LDK, the world’s second-largest maker of wafers, surged the
most in five months while  Trina Solar , China’s fifth-largest
solar-panel maker, jumped the most in four months after  First
Solar Inc. (FSLR)  said it’s increasing production in its German
factories. The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-
traded Chinese shares in the U.S. rose 1.4 percent to 91.28 at
the close of trading in New York, the highest since May 29.  First Solar, the world’s largest maker of thin-film panels,
will delay the close of the German plant to meet demand in
Europe for its products, Brandon Mitchener, a spokesman for the
Tempe, Arizona-based company, said yesterday by e-mail. LDK fell
to a record low on June 4 while Trina has slumped 65 percent in
the past 12 months on concern waning government support for
solar energy is slowing demand for their products.  “First Solar’s comments fit in with what several Chinese
companies have also been saying, which is that demand remains
strong,” David Smith, the portfolio manager of the  Gabelli
Green Fund (SRIAX) , said by phone from Purchase, New York. LDK and Trina
“have been weak,” he said. “They’re probably best positioned
to benefit from current conditions in the industry,” he added.  Chicago Fed  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., advanced 2.2 percent to $33.52
while the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose 1.2 percent to
1,324.18 as comments by Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago
President Charles Evans that he would support measures to
generate faster job growth in the world’s largest economy offset
concern Europe’s debt crisis may worsen after Fitch Ratings
downgraded 18 Spanish banks.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.7 percent yesterday to
2,289.79 while the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese
companies traded in Hong Kong lost 0.6 percent to 9,519.53.  The drop provides investors with a “very good entry point
for the Chinese market,” said Christian Deseglise, the New
York-based managing director of HSBC Global Asset Management for
the Americas. Deseglise said that consumer-focused Chinese
stocks along with energy, material and financial companies are
attractive “long-term investments.”  “We think the correction is behind us, and that the market
has overreacted regarding Chinese stocks,” said Deseglise in an
interview yesterday at Bloomberg offices in New York. “The
exogenous risks are still there: Europe, low inter-bank
liquidity, lots of volatility. So you’ve got to be able to ride
the ride.”  Trina, Yingli  LDK surged 17 percent to $2.13 and Trina climbed 8.3
percent to $6.64.  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE) , China’s
second-biggest solar-panel maker, added 5.4 percent, the most in
two weeks, to $2.74.  The short-term increase in First Solar’s production is
“due to unexpected order intake in Europe” while the “long-
term trend remains downward” for the region, company spokesman
Mitchener also said an interview yesterday.  LDK, the  worst  performer in 2012 on the Bloomberg China-US
Equity Index, said in April that it cut 22 percent of its
workforce after an oversupply of solar products resulted in
slumping prices that generated record-low profit margins.  Trina, also citing depressed prices, last month  reported  a
37 percent year-on-year drop in first-quarter revenue, missing
analyst estimates as its shipments declined.  China Eastern, AutoNavi  China Eastern Airlines Corp. (CEA)  advanced to a one-month high
after announcing plans to sell bonds worth 8.8 billion  yuan 
($1.4 billion) to purchase planes and replenish capital. The
country’s second-largest carrier by passengers jumped 5 percent
to $16.22.  AutoNavi Holdings Ltd. (AMAP) , a Chinese provider of digital map
and navigation services, rose 2.8 percent to $11.99, a one-month
high, after Goldman Sachs analyst Sam Li said the Beijing-based
company may become Apple Inc.’s map data provider in China.  “AMAP has been trying to expand its presence in the
handset space, so this would be a good thing for them to
consolidate their position in China,” Andy Yeung, a New York-
based analyst for Oppenheimer & Co., said in a phone interview
yesterday.  Michael Kors Holdings Ltd. (KORS) , the Hong Kong-based luxury-
goods company that gets 95 percent of its sales from  North
America , jumped 7.6 percent to $41.10, the most in three weeks,
after earnings and sales forecasts exceeded analysts’ estimates.  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP)  extended its slide to 13
percent over three days as Mirae Asset Securities Hong Kong Ltd.
downgraded China’s biggest online travel agency to hold from buy
on June 11. Shares today fell 3 percent to $16.54.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  