-- Don’t Replace Data With Ideology
-- B y   E m i   N a k a m u r a ,   J o n   S t e i n s s o n   a n d   N i c o l a s   V i n c e n t
-- 2012-06-12T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/don-t-replace-data-with-ideology.html
Argentina’s government regularly
publishes false data on the country’s inflation rate.  Greece 
lied about the size of its budget deficit. Believe it or not,
the U.S. is headed down a path that could ultimately make
similar shenanigans possible in the world’s largest economy.  In various parts of the world, politicians are waging war
on the economic statistics that help people assess the
performance of their leaders. Over the past few years, the
Argentine government  has reported inflation rates  more than a
dozen percentage points below private-sector estimates, and has
filed criminal charges against statisticians attempting to
publish their own data. Late last year, Greece launched a
criminal investigation of the head of its statistical agency for
reporting larger  budget deficits  than the government deemed
appropriate (or, as he put it, for “not cooking the books”).  If you think such degradation of national statistics
couldn’t happen in more developed countries, think again.  In the U.S., a battle is brewing in Congress over two of
the most valuable gauges of the nation’s economic health: the
 American Community Survey  and the  Economic Census . The data
sets, which the U.S. has maintained in some form since the early
1900s, provide researchers and the public with a trove of
information on everything from the size of families’ mortgage
payments in Boise,  Idaho , to the nation’s median annual income.  Crucial Role  The data play a crucial role in calculating the performance
of the entire  U.S. economy , and in deciding how public funds
should be allocated among states. Economists use them to figure
out whether government policies are working. Businesses use them
to study demographic trends and inform important decisions. The
clarity they provide helps make the U.S. particularly attractive
for foreign investment.  In early May, legislators in the U.S. House of
Representatives  passed a bill  that would eliminate both surveys,
on the grounds that they are too intrusive -- even though no
information identifying the participants is ever released to the
public.  Robert Groves , the director of the U.S. Census Bureau,
says ending the surveys will “devastate the nation’s statistical
information.” In addition, Republican lawmakers have proposed
large cuts to all of the core agencies responsible for data
collection.  It’s possible that Republicans are using the threat of data
chaos as a bargaining chip to extract other concessions. Given
the recent experience of other developed nations, though,
there’s no good reason for complacency.  Consider what’s happening in Canada. In 2010, Chief
Statistician Munir Sheikh resigned in  dramatic fashion  after the
conservative government of Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  decided
to make participation voluntary in the “long-form” census, the
Canadian counterpart to the American Community Survey -- a move
that has made that survey less reliable. The resignation had an
eerie parallel: Back in 2007, the departure of the head of
Argentina’s national statistics institute presaged that
country’s descent into data manipulation. A Canadian legislator
has since broached the subject of cutting the mandatory short-
form census, a move that would render  Canada  unable even to
accurately count the  population . About half the staff at
 Statistics Canada  has recently received layoff notices. The
agency’s budget is set to take a 10 percent hit.  It is hard to believe that the cuts in data gathering are
motivated by fiscal prudence alone. Making census-type surveys
voluntary -- a potential outcome of the battle in the U.S. as
well -- can actually increase costs because the sample size
would need to be increased to offset biased response rates.  Minimal Cost  Beyond that, the cost of data collection is minimal. The
entire Statistics Canada budget of $530 million amounts to only
a handful of the 65 F-35 stealth fighters that the Harper
government recently ordered as part of a plan to expand the
Canadian military. In the U.S., the statistical agencies that
collect most economic data -- the Census Bureau, the  Bureau of
Economic Analysis  and the Bureau of Labor Statistics -- account
for less than 0.05 percent of President  Barack Obama ’s $3.7
trillion proposed budget.  Why, then, are politicians attacking statistics? Perhaps
they have become so accustomed to good data that they fail to
recognize what life and governance would be like without them.
Some, though, have displayed an active disdain. When the Harper
government’s plans to toughen Canadian crime laws were critiqued
using statistics showing low and falling crime rates, Justice
Minister Rob Nicholson proudly asserted: “We don’t govern on the
basis of statistics.”  It’s hard to overstate how dangerous the destruction of
high-quality, objective statistical information would be. Policy
making would become more subjective, and hence more ideological.
Governments would have more leeway to lie to the people about
the success of their policies and the state of the economy.  If the bill to eliminate the U.S. surveys makes it to
President Obama’s desk, he should use his veto power. Otherwise,
the U.S. will take a big step toward becoming the  Argentina  of
the north.  (Emi Nakamura is the David W. Zalaznick associate professor
of business at  Columbia University , and a member of the
technical advisory committee of the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Jon Steinsson is an associate professor of economics at Columbia
University. Nicolas Vincent is an assistant professor of
economics, HEC  Montreal . The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: The editors on  the Bush family’s lessons for
Republicans  and  Jamie Dimon’s day in Congress ; Clive Crook on
 Spain’s pain and Merkel’s folly ;  Edward Glaeser  on  what the 1912
election tells us about 2012 ;  Margaret Carlson   on the joys and
sorrows of being Jeb Bush ; Robert Hockett on  splitting Europe in
half .  To contact the writers of this article:
Emi Nakamura at  enakamura@columbia.edu 
Jon Steinsson at  jsteinsson@columbia.edu 
Nicolas Vincent at  nicolas.vincent@hec.ca   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  