-- Doubts in Spain Send Syneron Tumbling: Israel Overnight
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-06-11T22:55:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/doubts-in-spain-send-syneron-tumbling-israel-overnight.html
Israeli stocks  from  Syneron (ELOS)  Medical
Ltd. to  EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH)  slid in the U.S. on growing
concern Spain’s bailout will fail to resolve the debt crisis in
 Europe ,  Israel ’s biggest trading partner.  Shares of Syneron, the Israeli company that develops
aesthetic medical devices, dropped the most since April 10 in
New York yesterday, while  EZchip (EZCH)  fell 2.5 percent to trade at a
discount of $1.22 versus the Tel Aviv shares. The Bloomberg
 Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the most traded Israeli companies in
the U.S. retreated 0.8 percent to 81.78, paring earlier gains of
as much as 1.8 percent.  Israeli equities fell as optimism faded that Spain’s 100
billion euro ($125 billion) bank bailout will contain a European
sovereign debt crisis that began almost three years ago. Europe
accounts for 36 percent of all Israeli goods sent abroad
excluding diamonds. The nation gets about 40 percent of its
gross domestic product from exports.  “The entire market is focused on the impact of an
implosion in the  euro zone  and how far reaching it will be for
the rest of the world,” said Chaim Fromowitz, the New York-
based executive vice president and head of private banking at
Bank Leumi USA, a unit of Israel’s largest lender by assets.
“Europe is clearly an important block for Israel as a trading
partner so the stocks are getting hurt.”  Israel’s  TA-25 (TA-25)  gauge, which fell 1.3 percent to 1,080.04
yesterday, has declined 0.5 percent in 2012, compared with a
gain of 0.7 percent for the Israel-US Equity Index.  European Sales  Syneron, a Yokneam Elit, Israel-based maker of hair-removal
lasers and anti-wrinkle devices, declined 3 percent to $10.73 in
New York yesterday, falling from the highest level since March
19.  Western Europe is the company’s  second-largest  market,
making up about 34.2 percent of sales, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Another 34.4 percent of Syneron’s revenue
is derived from  North America .  EZchip, an Israeli maker of network processors that allow
for faster transmission of voice and data, declined 2.5 percent
to $35.88 in New York, retreating for a third day. The Tel Aviv
shares rose 1.4 percent to 144 shekels, or the equivalent of
$37.10.  Orbotech Investigation  Orbotech Ltd. (ORBK) , based in Yavne, Israel, slipped 2.8 percent
to $9.48 in New York yesterday, the lowest level in a week.  The Israeli maker of equipment used to test screens of
smartphones and tablets reported that its South Korean unit and
certain engineers are under criminal investigation relating to
display panels. Fines of as much as $1.3 million may be imposed,
a filing showed.  About 41 percent of the company’s sales came from China in
2011, while 16 percent are made in South Korea, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX)  surged 2.4 percent to $63.10 in
New York yesterday, the highest level since April 19. The shares
trade at a discount of $2.47 versus its Tel Aviv shares.  Mellanox advanced 3.9 percent to 254.5 shekels in Israel,
or $65.57, the highest since the company’s offering in July
2007.  Mellanox’s ConnectX-3 FDR InfiniBand adapter silicon, which
allows for higher performance and application efficiency, was
chosen by  Intel Corp. (INTC)  for use in its products, according to a
statement yesterday.  Intel Deal  Intel, based in Santa Clara, California, threatened
Mellanox’s domination of the InfiniBand market when it agreed in
January to buy assets of QLogic Corp., a competitor to Mellanox.  “This deal is tangible confirmation Intel isn’t a near-
term threat and that Mellanox will gain market share,” Brian Freed, Memphis-based vice president of equity research at
Wunderlich Securities Inc., said by phone yesterday.  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to Switzerland’s, has about 60 companies trading on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any nation outside the U.S. after
China. The country is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  