-- Down-Under Greeks Send Money as Crisis Stirs Homeland Ties
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-06-13T06:50:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/down-under-greeks-send-money-as-crisis-awakens-ties-to-homeland.html
Half a century after leaving  Greece 
and more than 12,000 kilometers (7,500 miles) from  Athens , Paul
Afkos says there’s no escaping the calling of his motherland.  With Greek unemployment four times higher than in his
adopted Australia, the 59-year-old head of  Afkos Industries , a
maker of mining components based near Perth, has plowed A$18
million ($17.9 million) into a 109-bed hotel in northern Greece
that opened in April.  “I see it as a duty,” Afkos says, after bringing forward
by eight months the opening of the Afkos Grammos Hotel Resort in
Kastoria. “I can’t be seen as a hypocrite, not helping my
fellow Greeks. I wanted to open early to provide some assistance
to these people who are in need of a job.”  Australia ’s Greek population has grown from seven pirates
dispatched by Britain in 1829 to a diaspora of about half a
million, making Melbourne the  third-largest Greek city  behind
Athens and Thessaloniki. Armed with patriotism and the best-
performing currency against the euro since late-2008,
Australia’s Greeks are deploying wealth amassed in the fastest
growing major developed economy to a nation that’s needed 240
billion euros ($300 billion) in bailouts. Greece votes June 17
in an election set to decide its future in the  euro zone .  John Tripidakis , a Greek lawyer with an Athens practice who
splits his time between Sydney and Melbourne, said half his
clients are interested in buying property in Greece, up from
less than 10 percent two years ago.  “They are looking for a bargain,” he said in an interview
from Sydney. “Yet they are still connected to the sentimental
criteria of buying something near the village of their father or
grandfather.”  Prices Plunge  Beachfront summerhouses or suburban bargains in Athens are
among the most-desired properties, said Tripidakis, a lawyer for
30 years who was born in the Greek capital.  Apartment prices in Greece fell 3.7 percent in 2009, 4.7
percent the following year and 5.1 percent in 2011, and house
values have declined even further, the central bank  said  in
April. The real-estate market is “without any signs of
recovery,” the bank said.  “What better time than the present to buy?” Tripidakis
said. “Cash is king.”  The Australian dollar has surged 66 percent against the
euro since October 2008 as Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
failure drove up credit costs, slowed global growth, and exposed
the stretched finances of European nations such as Ireland and
Greece.  Spain  last week asked euro-region governments for as
much as 100 billion euros to rescue the country’s banking
system.  Home Buyers  “Anecdotally, pretty much every person from my parents’
generation or their children are going over there and purchasing
property in the town or area where they grew up,” said George Boubouras, 44, the Melbourne-based head of investment strategy
at UBS AG’s wealth management unit in Australia and a Greek
citizen.  “They are very strong and passionate about it, and it’s
very much not with the brain, it’s with the heart,” said
Boubouras, who was born in  South Australia  and inherited
property in Greece, where his cousins and extended family live.
Many properties change hands only for cash, he said.  Greece has at least a one-in-three chance of leaving the
17-country euro area within months of this weekend’s election,
 Standard & Poor’s  said in a June 4 report. Greek deposit
outflows have accelerated before the vote, two bankers familiar
with the situation said, on concern the nation may move closer
to abandoning the region’s currency.  Family Ties  The crisis dominates conversation in the Greek-owned shops,
cafés and accountancy firms in  Melbourne ’s eastern suburb of
Oakleigh, the heartland of the city’s Greek community.  “The majority of people I speak to have family back
home,” 36-year-old butcher Tom Droutsis said in his father’s
shop, where posters of the historical Greek town of Nafpaktos,
his mother’s birthplace, hang on the walls. “I feel for them.”  At least once a week, a visitor from Greece comes to the
shop or he fields an inquiry about work or other opportunities
in Melbourne from someone caught up in the crisis, he said.  Australia’s 2006 census counted 365,145 people of Greek
ancestry in Australia and 109,980 Greek-born migrants among
Australia’s population of 19.9 million at the time. Greece was
home to 10.8 million at the end of 2011.  In Australia, the seven young sailors from Hydra
transported when the colony was still accepting convicts from
Britain were followed by exiles from Ottoman rule, then other
Greeks seeking riches during Australia’s Gold Rush. Emigration
increased in the 20th century amid conflict with  Turkey ,
depression and civil war.  Plato, Olympics  According to a New South Wales state government website,
between 1947 and 1982, almost 250,000 arrived in Australia from
mainland Greece, its islands and Greek communities outside the
nation that gave the world Plato and the  Olympic Games .  “For Greeks living abroad, Greece is not a country, it’s a
cultural ideology,” said Anastasios Tamis, author of “ The
Greeks in Australia ,” published in 2005. “It’s what she has
offered the world from the classical perspective. This has
perpetuated love and patriotism.”  Almost half of Australia’s Greek community lives in the
nation’s second-biggest city of Melbourne, and about 30 percent
in Sydney, according to the NSW government site. More than a
quarter of Australia’s Greek community returns to Greece for the
northern hemisphere’s summer, Tamis said.  Still, some question the merit of investing in Greek
property when the country’s immediate future is undecided.  Uncertain Times  “Greek Australians may be looking, but how many are
actually proceeding?” Yannis Perrotis, managing director of
CBRE Atria, a unit of real estate company  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG) , said
in an interview in Athens. “Nobody, and I mean nobody, knows
what is going to happen to this country.”  Con Berbatis, a Perth-based pharmacist and a partner at the
Holiday Inn Hotel in the city, said he sees opportunities in
Greece but isn’t buying assets yet. Instead, he has met Greek
consular officials in Australia to discuss how to donate as much
as A$50,000 of medical supplies as the crisis cripples Greece’s
healthcare system.  “A number of things need to stabilize before I put my
money in there,” said Berbatis, born in Australia in 1946, 20
years after his father left Greece. “The prerequisites for me
are a stable currency and a stable political structure.”  Stephen Koukoulas, managing director of Canberra-based
Market Economics Pty, said a Greek exit from the euro would see
investors “badly burnt” by  currency depreciation  as the nation
returned to the drachma.  ‘Risk-Reward’  “Investments should be related to risk-reward trade-offs,
and if they’re done for reasons of the heart, not of the head,
you can get buried if things move against you,” said Koukoulas,
a third-generation Greek Australian whose grandfather arrived in
Sydney in 1920.  Afkos said he’s “optimistic” that Greece, which has a
jobless rate of 22 percent, won’t exit the euro. The former co-
owner of the Perth Glory soccer team said the resort he built in
Kastoria has given work to 25 local families.  “That’s the kind of help we Australian Greeks can do,”
said Afkos, who followed his father to Australia in 1964 with
his sister and mother. “I have a warm feeling for the people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at 
 dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  