-- Dubai Stocks Snap Five-Day Gain on Spain Debt Risk
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-06-12T13:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/dubai-stocks-snap-five-day-gain-on-spain-debt-risk.html
Dubai’s shares snapped a five-day
rally, leading a drop among Persian Gulf markets, as optimism
that the bailout of Spain’s banks will stem Europe’s financial
crisis faded, cutting demand for riskier assets.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , developer of the world’s tallest
skyscraper in Dubai, fell 1 percent.  Arabtec Holding (ARTC)  PJSC, the
United Arab Emirates’ largest construction company, dropped the
most in more than a week. The benchmark  DFM General Index (DFMGI) 
decreased 1 percent, the biggest retreat since June 3, to
1,468.82 at the 2 p.m. close in the emirate. The  Bloomberg GCC
200 Index (BGCC200)  and  Saudi Arabia (SABIC) ’s  gauge  declined 0.9 percent.  Spanish bond yields surged the most in four months
yesterday in the first trading after the government sought a
bailout of 100 billion euros ($125 billion) for its banks.
European officials have struggled to control the debt crisis
that began in Greece at the end of 2009. The  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index (MXEF)  retreated as much as 1 percent, while the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index yesterday lost 1.3 percent in New York.
Futures rose 0.4 percent today.  “Our markets are far more correlated to global markets on
the downside, as nobody knows the repercussions from a real
fallout in the event that the euro zone collapses,” said
Haissam Arabi, chief executive officer of Gulfmena Investments
in Dubai. “There is great uncertainty and many investors feel
they are better off on the sidelines, especially as the summer
months are here.”  Share Disclosure  Dubai, the second-largest of seven sheikhdoms that make up
the U.A.E., relies on trade, tourism and property for growth.
The Islamic holy month of Ramadan, when Muslims fast from
sunrise to sunset and business slows, will start next month.
About  77 million shares  traded in Dubai today, compared with a
six-month daily average of 202 million shares.  Emaar lost the most since June 4 to 2.85 dirhams, while
Arabtec retreated 1.1 percent, also the most since June 4, to
2.84 dirhams. The stock has rallied 88 percent this year, while
Dubai’s benchmark stock gauge rose 8.5 percent. Aabar
Investments PJSC, the  Abu Dhabi ’s state-owned company, boosted
its stake in Arabtec through affiliates to 21.57 percent, Dubai
bourse data showed last month.  The market regulator in the U.A.E. will require
shareholders to disclose purchases that may lead to holdings of
30 percent stakes, according to a statement on the Securities
and Commodities Authority’s website.  Saudi Stocks Decline  Some investors “may have a negative reaction” as there is
concern “certain investors may be forced to sell stocks where
they do not wish to disclose their interests,” Julian Bruce,
the Dubai-based director of institutional sales trading at EFG-
Hermes Holding SAE, the biggest publicly traded Arab investment
bank, said in an e-mailed note today.  In  Saudi Arabia ,  Al Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , the kingdom’s largest
lender by market value, dropped 1.7 percent, while Saudi Basic
Industries Corp., the world’s biggest petrochemical maker, lost
2.7 percent to 89.5 riyals, the lowest since October.  Elsewhere in the Persian Gulf, Kuwait’s  measure  fell 0.9
percent, Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  retreated 0.4 percent and Abu Dhabi’s
 ADX General Index (ADSMI)  decreased 0.6 percent. Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30) 
dropped 0.5 percent, while Bahrain’s  measure  was little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  