-- The Once (and Future?) President Bush
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-06-12T22:45:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/the-once-and-future-president-bush.html
No one would blame  Jeb Bush  for
feeling that time, or his party, has passed him by.  He could have run for president 12 years ago but didn’t.
Four years ago, as the U.S. was suffering from a virulent case
of Bush fatigue, he wisely decided again not to run. He made the
same choice this year, and sternly brushes away any speculation
that he could be the Republican vice presidential nominee.  Yet whatever his political aspirations or missed
opportunities, Jeb is remarkably sunny. He will always be
defined, and define himself, as a son and sibling. “Anytime I
talk about my brother or dad, don’t expect me to be an
observer,”  he told  a group of reporters convened Monday in  New
York  by Bloomberg View. “I love them.”  It fell to Jeb to shepherd his older brother George W. into
the presidency in 2000. As it was, Jeb was governor of  Florida ,
the state that decided the election. To criticism that he was
too close to the situation to be neutral, he said he couldn’t
have recused himself from “my constitutional duties.” Nor could
he have recused himself, he said, “of being my brother’s
brother.”  Jeb is also blinkered about the budget deal President
 George H.W. Bush  made in 1990. Jeb finds it, as it was, heroic,
and downplays any suggestion that it cost his father re-
election. On George W., he marvels at his “unbelievable
discipline,” as he watches President  Barack Obama  blame the
sputtering economy on his predecessor. “He doesn’t have to keep
bringing it up,” Jeb said. “We get it.”  Philosophical Musings  To listen to Jeb Bush is to hear a man who has crossed to
the other shore -- at least for now. On the question of whether
he could be president, he’s philosophical. “There’s a window of
opportunity in life,” he had earlier  told Charlie Rose ,
acknowledging that 2012 “was probably my time.” On Monday he had
criticism for everyone, although he undoubtedly knew that the
assembled journalists would shout out only his critique of his
own party.  He was right. On Tuesday, he  tweeted a clarification  of his
remark that  Ronald Reagan  and his father “would have a hard
time” being elected as Republicans today. “The point I was
making yesterday is this: The political system today is
hyperpartisan. Both sides are at fault.”  And both sides deserve some credit. Bush mentioned two
favorite governors, Indiana Republican  Mitch Daniels  and
Colorado Democrat John Hickenlooper.  He said Obama could have been “transcendent,” as he
promised, if he focused less on politics and more on problem-
solving, such as the Simpson-Bowles deficit reduction plan: “Had
he embraced something like that,” Bush said, “this election
would be very different today.”  He faulted both Obama and his Republican opponent,  Mitt Romney , for their policies on immigration. “The president says,
’Oh great, we have another election cycle to use this as a wedge
issue,’” Bush said. “And Republicans say, ’Border control is the
only organizing principle.’” He gives Romney a grade of “Needs
Improvement” because “America is a more generous country than
one that would punish a 4-year-old whose parents brought him
here.”  Unlike most  members of his party, Bush supports the Dream
Act, which would give that child a path to citizenship. “I do
feel a little out of step with my party on this,” he said.  Unfair as it may be, it’s hard to resist comparing Jeb with
one of his party’s most prominent members: his brother, the
former president.  Jeb was the Good Brother who made his fortune in business
before running for office, as his father advised, and climbed
the party ladder in the ultimate swing state. George was the
late-blooming cut-up who found religion and renounced alcohol
the morning after his 40th birthday, got rich in a sweetheart
deal, and was anointed by party elders to run for governor of
 Texas . In 1994, Jeb lost his first campaign for governor. George
won.  Presidential Runnings  Jeb won in 1998, but by then George was already being
mentioned for the presidency. When George outpaced his brother
and announced his campaign in 1999,  Barbara Bush  said, “Can you
believe it?”  It might be a stretch to say George couldn’t have become
the 43rd president of the U.S. if Jeb hadn’t been the 43rd
governor of Florida. It’s not a stretch to say that Jeb could
have run this time but for George W.’s presidency. According to
a CNN poll released last week,  George W. Bush  is the  most
unpopular  living ex-president.  This unpopularity will fade over time as the hazy gauze
that descends on most former presidents shrouds 43’s record.
Obama helped that process along at the White House last week
when George W., accompanied by former administration officials
and 14 members of his extended family, visited for the unveiling
of his portrait. “Thank you so much for inviting our rowdy
friends to my hanging,”  Bush said . Obama lauded Bush for his
“extraordinary strength and resolve” after the Sept. 11 attacks
and the unforgettable image of his standing on the rubble of the
World Trade Center with a bullhorn.  That’s how a restoration begins. Perhaps by 2016, it will
have proceeded far enough along that Jeb Bush may yet have his
presidency.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: The editors on  the Bush family’s lessons for
Republicans  and  Jamie Dimon’s day in Congress ; Clive Crook on
 Spain’s pain and Merkel’s folly ;  Edward Glaeser  on  what the 1912
election tells us about 2012 ; Emi Nakamura on  how the U.S. could
become like Argentina ; Robert Hockett on  splitting Europe in
half .  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 