-- Heating Oil Advances on Speculation Fed May Add More Stimulus
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-06-12T13:58:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/heating-oil-advances-on-speculation-fed-may-add-more-stimulus.html
Heating oil advanced on speculation
that the  Federal Reserve  will act more aggressively to stimulate
the economy.  Futures rose as Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago President
Charles Evans said he would support a variety of measures to
generate faster job growth. Prices of goods imported into the
U.S. fell in May by the most in almost two years, reflecting
lower costs for fuel and food.  “The import price decline gives the Fed some cover if they
decide to act more aggressively on the stimulus front,” said
Phil Flynn, senior market analyst at Price Futures Group in
Chicago.  July-delivery heating oil rose 1.15 cents, or 0.4 percent,
to $2.6472 a gallon at 9:53 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The contract is traded as a proxy for diesel.  “I’ve been in favor of pretty much any accommodative
policy I’ve heard about,” Evans said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu airing
today.  Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart 
said falling Treasury yields take pressure off the central bank
for further action as policy makers prepare for a June 19-20
meeting of the policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee .  The 1 percent decrease in the  import-price index , the
biggest since June 2010, follows an unchanged reading in April,
Labor Department figures showed today.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent at 9:53
a.m. in New York after sliding 1.3 percent yesterday.  “Some of the selling pressure seems to be overextended and
the equity market turned around,” said  Gene McGillian , an
analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut.  Gasoline for July delivery rose 0.31 cent to $2.6597 a
gallon on the Nymex.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide,  rose  0.2
cent to $3.542 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA. It was the
first increase since May 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  