-- ECB Says Spain Bailout Will Help Bolster Financial Stability
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-06-12T15:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/ecb-says-spanish-bailout-will-help-bolster-financial-stability.html
The  European Central Bank  said
 Spain ’s bailout will help to bolster financial stability in the
euro area and governments must dispel investor doubts about the
future of the monetary union at a summit later this month.  Euro-area aid of up to 100 billion euros ($125 billion) for
Spain’s banks “will make an important contribution to ease
existing banking vulnerabilities in the euro area,” the ECB
said in its biannual Financial Stability Review published in
Frankfurt today. “What we need besides this is to try to
address the more encompassing doubts in the market about the
future of the monetary union,” ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said at a press briefing, adding this is a job for
European Union leaders at a June 28-29 summit in Brussels.  Spanish bonds fell today, sending the 10-year yield to a
euro-era record of 6.79 percent, after  Fitch Ratings  said the
country will “significantly” miss its budget deficit targets
and policy makers are failing to demonstrate they can bring the
sovereign debt crisis under control. In its report, the ECB said
the crisis remains the key risk to financial stability and
“there is no room for complacency, either on the part of
governments or on that of banks.”  While “the worst market manifestations of crisis may have
passed, there remains a clear need for a continued focus on
tackling its root causes,” the ECB said.  Key Risks  It identified three key risks to a stable financial system
in the euro area: sovereign vulnerabilities, a risk to bank
profitability stemming from weaker economic growth, and
“excessive pace of deleveraging of the banking sector due to
frontloaded changes to banks’ business models.”  The ECB estimates that banks will need to sell more than 1
trillion euros of assets over the medium term to bolster their
balance sheets and increase resilience. On April 18, the
 International Monetary Fund  predicted they could be forced to
sell as much as $3.8 trillion of assets through 2013.  The ECB said that in contrast to the stresses seen at the
end of last year, “concerns now appear to differ across
entities depending on specific underlying fundamentals and have
moved away from generalized self-fulfilling expectations that
threatened an indiscriminate seizing up of liquidity with
systemic consequences.”  Constancio said the ECB doesn’t expect  Greece  to leave the
currency bloc and that it would be “impossible” to assess the
ramifications of such an event in the financial stability
review.  Market View  “We know that in the market, the probability has
increased, and we recognize that, and the market has been
reacting to that,” he said of a Greek euro exit.  The ECB report also backed European Commission proposals
for a European banking union based on three pillars:
Strengthening euro-area banking supervision, breaking the link
between banks and sovereigns by establishing a European deposit
guarantee program and “minimizing the risks for taxpayers
through adequate contributions by the financial industry.”  Constancio said he doesn’t think a full fiscal union needs
to be present before “some elements” of a banking union could
be introduced.  “With the proper elements, you may not require significant
amounts of public money for this to function,” he said. “I
don’t see the necessity to have deeper fiscal union before
entering into some elements of a banking union.”  Bundesbank Vice President Sabine Lautenschlaeger said in
 Frankfurt  today that “to balance liability and control, the
European level has to be given the appropriate powers of
intervention. For this reason a banking union can only work if
it is accompanied by a fiscal union.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  