-- Medicare Advantage Enrollment Rises 10% on Lower Premiums
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-06-12T18:04:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/medicare-advantage-enrollment-rises-10-on-lower-premiums.html
Enrollment in U.S. government-backed
Medicare plans run by insurers led by  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) 
rose 10 percent to a record this year as lower premiums enticed
people to sign up, a study shows.  The average monthly charge for the 13.1 million people on
Medicare Advantage fell $4 to $35, and is down from $44 in 2010,
the  Kaiser Family Foundation  said today in a  report . The  Menlo
Park , California-based nonprofit also attributed membership
increases to less access to supplemental coverage from former
employers and more comfort with managed care than previous
generations.  The 2010 health-care overhaul begins decreasing government
payments to Advantage plans this year, and Medicare’s actuary
has projected enrollment will be cut in half by 2017 as plans
drop the market and reduce benefits. A bonus system for the
plans --  estimated  by the Government Accountability Office to be
valued at $8 billion through 2014 -- “may have helped to
mitigate the effects of the payment reductions,” Kaiser said.  “The vast majority of Medicare Advantage cuts have not
gone into effect yet,” said  Robert Zirkelbach , a spokesman for
America’s Health Insurance Plans, the industry’s lobbying group
in  Washington , in an e-mail. “As these cuts take effect in the
coming years, Medicare Advantage beneficiaries will face higher
out-of-pocket costs, reduced benefits, and fewer health care
choices.”  Average Premiums  Medicare Advantage is an alternative to the government-run
 insurance program  for the elderly and disabled that is
administered by private insurers. The total average premium for
a Medicare Advantage plan with drug coverage is $134.90 a month,
$5 less than the average for traditional Medicare plus a
separate plan for drug coverage, said Gretchen Jacobson, a
policy analyst at Kaiser, in an e-mail.  UnitedHealth, the nation’s largest for-profit insurer by
sales, leads the Medicare Advantage market with 19 percent of
people enrolled in the plans, according to the report. Plans
offered by local Blue Cross Blue Shield companies and by  Humana
Inc. (HUM)  each have 17 percent of customers.  The GAO has recommended that Health and Human Services
Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  cancel the bonus system. GAO
investigators said the program “dwarfs all other Medicare
demonstrations” since 1995 in size, while “design
shortcomings” will prevent Medicare from determining whether
the bonuses help lower-quality Advantage plans improve more
quickly.  Brian Cook , a spokesman for the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services, declined to comment on the Kaiser study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  