-- Elinor Ostrom, Only Female With Economics Nobel, Dies at 78
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-06-12T18:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/elinor-ostrom-only-female-nobel-winner-in-economics-dies-at-78.html
Elinor Ostrom, the only woman to win
the  Nobel Prize  in economics and a professor of political
science at  Indiana University  in Bloomington,  Indiana , has died.
She was 78.  Ostrom died today from pancreatic cancer at IU Health
Bloomington Hospital, the school said in a  statement .  She received the Nobel in 2009 for work showing that
informal groups of ordinary people can sometimes manage natural
resources such as forests and lakes better than governments or
private companies.  “Indiana University has lost an irreplaceable and
magnificent treasure with the passing of Elinor Ostrom,”
Indiana University President Michael A. McRobbie said.
“Throughout her lifetime, Lin has brought distinction to the
university through her groundbreaking work, which received the
ultimate recognition in 2009.”  Time magazine this year named her one of the 100 most
influential people in the world.  Elinor Awan was born on Aug. 7, 1933, in  Los Angeles , and
raised by a divorced mother during the Great Depression. Because
her family’s house was located “at the lower edge of  Beverly
Hills ,” Ostrom’s mother arranged for her to attend Beverly
Hills High School, where she joined the debate team and competed
around the state, according to her  autobiography  on the Nobel
Prize website.  ‘Different Perspective’  “While it was a challenge being a poor kid in a rich kid’s
school, it did give me a different perspective on the future,”
Ostrom wrote. “Since 90 percent of the students in Beverly
Hills High School went to college, it appeared going to college
was the ‘normal’ thing to do.”  Ostrom enrolled in the  University of California , Los
Angeles, becoming the first member of her immediate family to
attend college. After graduating in three years, she earned a
master’s degree and Ph.D. in political science from  UCLA .  While there she joined a research team studying  Southern
California ’s water industry, a project overseen by Vincent
Ostrom, an associate professor of political science 14 years her
senior, whom she married in 1963, according to a  profile  in
Finance & Development, published by the  International Monetary
Fund .  ‘Tagged Along’  He moved to Indiana in 1965 when IU offered him a position
as a full professor. She “tagged along” as she wrote in her
Nobel autobiography, and the university’s  political science 
department hired her as a visiting assistant professor.  She became a full professor at the school in 1974, and was
president of the American Political Science Association in 1996
and 1997.  Calling herself a political economist, Ostrom said that her
work should encourage citizens that they have a “capacity and
power” beyond the bureaucracies that govern them.  The other 2009 Nobel winner in economics was Oliver Williamson, a professor of economics at the University of
 California , Berkeley. He won the prize “for his analysis of
economic governance, especially the boundaries of the firm,”
according to the Nobel Prize website.  “She had a wonderful sense of joy about the importance of
her work that she successfully communicated to others,”
Williamson said today in an e-mail. ”Her person and her
research will be remembered forever.”  Ostrom is survived by her husband,  Vincent , a professor
emeritus of political science at IU. The couple founded the
school’s Workshop in Political Theory and Policy Analysis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  