-- Temasek Says Europe Crisis Offers Deal Openings: Southeast Asia
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-06-13T10:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/temasek-says-europe-crisis-offers-deal-openings-southeast-asia.html
Temasek Holdings Pte said the
turmoil in Europe may result in a market slump rivaling the 2008
global financial crisis, creating opportunities for the
Singapore state-owned investment company to make deals.  Temasek, which managed S$193 billion ($150 billion) as of
March 2011, may fund European companies expanding in growth
markets like  Asia  and  Latin America , or form ventures with firms
seeking mergers or acquisitions, Chief Investment Officer Tan Chong Lee said in a June 11 interview. Temasek is prepared to
make “sizable” deals topping S$1 billion, he said.  The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  slumped 9 percent in May, its worst
monthly performance in two years, as Europe’s debt crisis
intensified, the U.S. recovery showed signs of losing steam and
growth slowed in  China  and  India . European officials have tried
to contain the situation as  Spain  sought a bailout of 100
billion euros ($125 billion) for its banks and a Greek vote this
weekend may decide whether the country stays in the  euro zone .  “We do not discount the possibility that another severe
round of major dislocation could actually result from the
current European crisis,” said Tan, 50. “It’s hard to quantify
or predict the magnitude of the potential correction, but one
would imagine that there is no less reason why another major
correction would not be as bad or worse than the global
financial crisis that we saw back in 2008.”  The European Union’s construct has created “inherent
instability” in the system, which is unlikely to improve until
structural changes are made, Tan said at Temasek’s headquarters.  Investment Proposals  Temasek is assessing investment proposals in areas it wants
to focus on, such as retail, luxury, technology, health care,
biotechnology and insurance, Tan said. These also fit its aim to
invest in markets with a rising middle-income population.  “Global markets are going to see a lot of volatility,”
said Catherine Yeung, Hong Kong-based investment director at
Fidelity Investment Management Ltd., which had $1.62 trillion of
total managed assets as of March. “It is important for
investors to search for those growth opportunities and many of
those growth opportunities lie in Asia Pacific.”  Investments in Europe and  North America  make up 8 percent
of Temasek’s assets, trailing assets in Singapore and other
parts of the Asia-Pacific region. Past European investments that
exceeded $1 billion include its 2 percent stake in London-based
Barclays Plc, which it has sold, and 18 percent of  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN) , making it the U.K. bank’s biggest shareholder.  ‘Return Requirements’  Temasek also holds 5.5 percent of Rio Tinto Group’s  Ivanhoe
Mines Ltd. (IVN) , according to a filing last week. The Singapore firm
declined to say the amount paid for the stake in the Vancouver-
based company, which is worth C$433.9 million ($422 million) as
of yesterday’s close.  “In this environment, we’re seeing sizable opportunities
come our way and we are carefully evaluating those
opportunities,” said Tan, who’s also considering smaller
ventures. “We are currently net cash, which means that we have
the full flexibility to undertake significant transactions
provided it meets our return requirements.”  Temasek’s assets slumped 30 percent to S$130 billion in the
year ended March 2009 amid the global financial crisis when it
sold its stake in Bank of America Corp. at a loss. The company’s
holdings rebounded to S$186 billion the following year, and
reached S$193 billion at the end of March 2011, according to
Temasek’s annual reports.  Tan was hired in September from Bank of America’s Merrill
Lynch unit, where he was the Southeast Asia head of corporate
and investment banking. Tan is also Temasek’s co-head of the
Americas alongside Boon Sim, who joined as president of North
America this month from Credit Suisse Group AG. Sim was global
head of mergers and acquisitions at the Swiss bank.  Holding Back  Temasek, which is run by Chief Executive Officer  Ho Ching ,
also hired John Cryan, the former chief financial officer of  UBS
AG (UBSN) , as president for Europe in January.  While Temasek plans to be “naturally cautious” with
investments amid the crisis, according to Tan, stock market
volatility is holding back others.  CSR Corp., China’s biggest trainmaker by market value, is
unlikely to act on proposed acquisitions in Europe this year
because of concerns about the region’s economy and the future of
its single currency, Chairman Zhao Xiaogang said in a June 8
interview in Beijing.  “We don’t think it’s time to actually enter,” said Kelvin Tay, Singapore-based chief investment officer for the southern
Asia Pacific region at the wealth management unit of UBS, which
has $580 billion of invested assets as of March. “We are still
advocating a cautious stance. It takes years, if not decades for
all these issues to be completely resolved,” citing  Europe ’s
competitiveness, trade unions and unemployment.  Strong Underpinnings  Barclays Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  said the
euro region will survive even as the debt crisis slows economic
growth and weakens the currency.  “The underpinnings of the single currency, the
underpinnings of the integrated economy across Europe are very,
very strong,” Diamond said in a Bloomberg Television interview
in  Hong Kong  today. “We’re going to continue to see some event
risk as we, in our opinion, march toward, over the next couple
of years, closer to fiscal and political integration.”  Tan said Temasek’s holdings in financial services companies,
which made up 36 percent of its assets as of March 2011, will
continue to be an important part of its investments.  “Banks are a very good proxy for riding on the growth of a
particular economy or economies,” Tan said. “I don’t see us
diminishing or reducing our exposure in the financial services
space.”  Danamon Sale  Temasek made its biggest deal in more than a decade in
April with the pending sale of its 67 percent stake in PT Bank
Danamon  Indonesia  to  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) , Southeast Asia’s
biggest bank. DBS will pay for Temasek’s stake in the Indonesian
bank with $4.9 billion of new stock, increasing its share of the
Singapore bank to 40.4 percent from 29.5 percent.  The transaction, also the largest in the region’s banking
industry, faces headwinds as Indonesia threatens to restrict
foreign ownership of its lenders. Foreigners are currently
allowed to own 99 percent of an Indonesian bank.  In China, Temasek sold $2.48 billion of shares in  Bank of
China Ltd. (3988)  and  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  in May, less than a
month after paying $2.3 billion for shares in  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  Temasek, which continues to hold
more than $17 billion in Chinese bank shares, said the recent
sales were part of a “rebalancing” after the investment in
ICBC, the world’s biggest bank by market value.  “We continue to believe in the long-term potential of
China,” Tan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in  Singapore  at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  