-- Emerging Stocks Fall on Europe Concern, Ratings Downgrade
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-06-12T22:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/emerging-stocks-fall-from-two-week-high-on-europe-bumi-slumps.html
Emerging-market stocks fell,
dragging down the benchmark index from a two-week high, as
concern about Europe’s debt crisis and a downgrade of Spanish
lenders by  Fitch Ratings  crimped demand for riskier assets.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 0.2 percent to 913.00
at the close in New York, after yesterday closing at the highest
level since May 29. Information technology stocks led declines
on the index as  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , which got 16 percent of
its first-quarter revenue from Europe, fell from the highest in
almost a month.  Brazilian equities  rallied on speculation of
further stimulus from the  Federal Reserve .  Spain’s benchmark  10-year sovereign-debt  climbed to a euro-
era record as optimism faded that the 100 billion euro ($124.8
billion) bank bailout for Spain would contain the debt crisis.
Fitch Ratings said euro-area countries face lower ratings
because policy makers are failing to demonstrate they can bring
the debt crisis under control.  “The  European debt crisis  is the biggest risk to the stock
market now and will cut investors’ risk appetite,” said Wang Weijun, a strategist at Zheshang Securities Co. in Shanghai.
“It looks like the problem is spreading to bigger countries
such as Spain and Italy, which is the last thing investors want
to see.”  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  gauge of developing nations has
declined 0.4 percent in 2012 and trades at a multiple of 9.9
times estimated earnings, compared with 11.8 percent for a
developed-nation gauge, which has added 0.8 percent this year.  Nine of 10  industry groups  on the emerging-markets gauge
fell, with technology and industrial stocks leading declines.
Telecommunication services advanced.  More Stimulus  Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago President Charles Evans
said he would support a variety of measures to generate faster
job growth, underscoring his preference for more stimulus in the
world’s largest economy. The Fed meets next week and announces
its rate decision on June 20.  “I’ve been in favor of pretty much any accommodative
policy I’ve heard about,” Evans said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with  Betty Liu  airing
today. “More asset purchases would be useful. More mortgage-
backed securities purchases would be good.”  Brazil’s Bovespa added 1.9 percent in Sao Paulo, the
highest since May 28. Airline operator  Tam SA (TAMM4) , whose shares
added 6.8 percent, the most since Oct. 5, led the advance. Tam’s
acquisition by Lan Airlines SA is creating the world’s most
valuable carrier with a leading position in Brazil.  Ultrapar Participacoes S.A. was the second-biggest gainer
after the holding company’s shares added 5 percent, the most in
two months.  Turkey, Hungary  The Czech  PX stock index  fell 1 percent on its third day of
declines. The euro area is the biggest buyer of Czech exports.
The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  advanced 1.2 percent in Istanbul and
Hungary’s  BUX Index (BUX)  gained 0.6 percent. Poland’s WIG20 Index
jumped 2.2 percent, advancing for a fourth day. Markets in
 Russia  are shut for a holiday.  Tupras Turkiye Petrol Rafinerileri AS (TUPRS)  rose 2.7 percent
after the U.S. said  Turkey  was among nations that would be
exempt from sanctions for buying Iranian oil.  Bumi Resources  The Jakarta Composite Index declined 0.4 percent on losses
for PT Bumi Resources, Asia’s biggest exporter of power-station
coal. The shares fell 4 percent as Societe Generale SA cut its
forecasts for coal prices, citing “poor performance” in the
global economy and a slowdown in energy demand in emerging
markets.  Avusa Ltd. (AVU) , publisher of South Africa’s biggest Sunday
newspaper, jumped 8.8 percent after investment company
Mvelaphanda Group Ltd. offered to buy the shares in the company
it doesn’t already own.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
listed in  Hong Kong  fell 0.6 percent, even after China’s local-
currency lending rose last month to a record for May. The loans
totaled 793.2 billion  yuan  ($125 billion), the central bank said
yesterday, beating the 700 billion yuan median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey. Europe is China’s biggest export market,
according to data from Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.  Samsung Electronics dropped 1 percent, while Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. lost 1.2 percent.  China Shipping
Container Lines Co Ltd. (2866)  retreated 4.7 percent in Hong Kong
trading, and China Cosco Holdings Co. fell 4.2 percent.  Taiwan Glass Industry Corp. (1802)  slumped 5.1 percent to the
lowest level in almost two years. The glassmaker’s second-half
outlook is “weak,” Parker Wu, a  fund manager  at Agriculture
Bank of Taiwan, said by phone today.  China Southern Airlines Co. (1055) , Asia’s biggest carrier by
passengers, rallied 6.7 percent after announcing plans to raise
as much as 2 billion yuan selling new shares to its state-owned
parent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 390, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  