-- EPA Must Close Gaps in U.S. Chemical Security, Ex-Chief Says
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-06-12T19:04:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/epa-must-close-gaping-gaps-in-chemical-security-ex-chief-says.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency must close “gaping holes” in chemical-plant security
that put millions of Americans at risk, former administrator
Christine Todd Whitman said.  The agency should use existing laws to bolster its ability
to prevent an accidental release of chemicals, particularly
poison gas, said Whitman, a Republican who ran the agency during
the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Factories and oil refineries
should be required to identify ways to reduce hazards in the
event of an accident or attack, she said on a call today hosted
by environmental group Greenpeace USA.  President  George W. Bush  quashed her agency’s proposals to
tighten chemical security through existing laws or new
legislation because of industry opposition, said Whitman, 65,
who resigned her position in 2003. Unlike the prior president,
the Obama administration is “willing to move on these things,”
Whitman said.  “Here is a gaping hole in our security,” she said. “I
cannot get my mind around why we haven’t seen some action when
the consequences of something happening at a chemical facility
are just so potentially devastating.”  Cost-effective alternatives to high-risk chemicals are
widely available, Whitman said, citing  Clorox Co. (CLX) ’s decision in
2009 to change how it makes bleach in the U.S. by eliminating
the use of chlorine gas.  Chemical Releases  Stacy Kika, a spokeswoman for the EPA, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail and phone call seeking comment.  A 2006 law gave chemical-safety oversight to the Department
of  Homeland Security , exempting thousands of factories, oil
refineries and water treatment plants, and bars the department
from mandating security measures, Whitman said.  “The idea that the current law protecting chemical
facilities against a terrorist attack is weak is a bad reading
of the law,” said Christine Sanchez, a spokeswoman for the
Washington-based Society of Chemical Manufacturers & Affiliates.
“The law in question requires these facilities to implement
measurable security standards by a specified time or face
closure.”  An EPA list shows where major chemical releases would
seriously injure or kill more than 1 million people if they
couldn’t evacuate in time, said Michael Wright, director of
health, safety and environment for  United Steelworkers , which
represents workers in chemical plants and oil refineries.  “How do you evacuate in time from a place like Houston or
Philadelphia or a major city,” Wright said on the call.
“Regulation is going to save the industry.”  Whitman sent EPA Administrator  Lisa Jackson  an April 3
 letter  urging her to use existing regulations to improve
chemical-plant safety. The letter hasn’t gotten a “formal”
response, said Whitman, who also served as New Jersey governor
and is now president of the Whitman Strategy Group, a Princeton,
New Jersey-based environmental consultant.  The odds of EPA action prior to the November election are
“very slight,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  