-- Mercedes Plans First AMG Compact in Performance-Car Push
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-06-12T13:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/mercedes-plans-first-amg-compact-in-performance-car-push-2-.html
Daimler AG (DAI)  will offer an AMG version
of the Mercedes-Benz A-Class compact to attract younger
customers in an effort to boost sales of the high-performance
brand by 50 percent.  The A 45 AMG will debut in the first quarter next year,
marking AMG’s first compact vehicle, the Affalterbach, Germany-
based Daimler unit said today. The model is part of an expansion
of AMG, Mercedes’s high-performance brand, to increase sales to
more than 30,000 vehicles by 2017 from around 20,000 now.  “Our goal is to build the most dynamic, most powerful and
at the same time most efficient four-cylinder series production
compact car,” Ola Kaellenius, head of Mercedes-AMG, said at an
event marking the brand’s 45th anniversary in Affalterbach.
“Mercedes-AMG plans to make a significant contribution to the
growth of Mercedes-Benz Cars.”  Mercedes, the world’s third-largest maker of  luxury
vehicles , is expanding AMG’s lineup to 30 models from 22,
including at least three compacts and additional versions of the
S-Class flagship. The new high-performance cars are aimed at
boosting Mercedes’s appeal with younger, sportier customers in a
bid to surpass  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  in sales by 2020.  Performance Booster  AMG adds horsepower and sportier styling to Mercedes models
and represents the top of the luxury brand’s offerings. The 630-
horsepower S 65 AMG starts at 230,384 euros ($288,200) in
Germany, compared with 71,876 euros for the S-Class’s 204-
horsepower base model. AMG’s engines bear the signature of the
engineer that assembled them.  The high-margin cars add prestige to Mercedes, which
targets sales of 1.6 million cars and sport-utility vehicles by
2015 from 1.28 million last year. Kaellenius said that AMG will
contribute “over-proportionally” to Mercedes’s goal of raising
its operating profit margin to at least 10 percent of sales by
next year.  “As an image carrier and to strengthen the Mercedes brand,
AMG is quite important,” said  Juergen Pieper , an analyst with
Bankhaus Metzler in Frankfurt, who estimates the unit’s margins
at 15 percent to 20 percent. “The potential is there. Customers
like high-performance cars.”  To support the expanded lineup, AMG will increase its
network of outlets to 350 by 2017 from 270 now. The company sees
opportunities to grow in  China ,  Russia ,  Korea  and  Brazil ,
Kaellenius said. AMG, which competes with BMW’s M and the
Quattro unit of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi, opened its first stand-
alone store in Beijing in April.  BMW’s M  “We enjoy a dominant position with most of the M products
we produce and that is something we intend to keep,”  Ian Robertson , head of sales for the BMW brand, said in a Bloomberg
TV interview in  London  today. “The M brand will continue to
have the success that it’s enjoyed in the past.”  AMG will premiere the SLS AMG E-Cell, an electric-powered
version of the gull-wing supercar, at the Paris Motor Show in
September, with deliveries to start in 2013. The model will pay
off by introducing new technology, even if it struggles to make
a profit, Kaellenius said.  The brand also plans to offer more all-wheel-drive
vehicles, Kaellenius said today. The technology will be standard
on the A 45 AMG. The model will have an “attractive” price and
be targeted at customers between 30 and 45 years old, younger
than a typical AMG driver, the executive said.  With the new entry-level models, “we can reach people who
could only dream of an AMG car so far,” Kaellenius said, adding
that compacts may make up 20 percent of sales by 2017.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in  Frankfurt  at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  