-- Merkel’s Choice Pits European Fate Against German Voter Interest
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-06-12T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/merkel-s-choice-pits-european-fate-against-german-voter-interest.html
The night the Berlin Wall fell,
 Angela Merkel  joined thousands of East Germans who pushed west
over the border crossing at the Bornholmer Bridge, helping sweep
away almost half a century of Cold War division.  Merkel, 57, is again at the nexus of history -- this time
as its agent and leader of  Europe ’s dominant country. The union
built out of the ashes of World War II faces an existential
threat and the common currency she champions is at risk of
collapse. Critics at home and abroad blame Merkel, saying she
has invited disaster by bowing to public opinion and refusing to
do enough to help Europe’s weakest links pay their debts.  “We’re at a crossroads,” Horst Teltschik, who advised
then-Chancellor  Helmut Kohl  during the diplomacy that led to the
reunification of East and West  Germany  in 1990, said in an
interview. “The question is what’s politically important and
historically necessary. Do I want further integration? Only then
do you ask what it costs.”  A pastor’s daughter, Merkel served the final premier of
East Germany and the first chancellor of the reunited country.
As the first German leader born after the war, Merkel’s choice
now is between taking on what previous chancellors saw as
Germany’s postwar responsibility to build European unity, by
using its checkbook if necessary, and a domestic public that is
increasingly ambivalent about the need to do so.  German Vision  “German history teaches us compellingly that isolation
would spell disaster,” Heinrich August Winkler, a historian at
Berlin’s Humboldt University and author of two volumes on modern
Germany, said in an interview. Faced with “the European Union’s
biggest challenge yet,” German policy makers now need to
display “a bit of vision.”  As she prepares for a June 18-19 summit of world leaders in
 Mexico  and European crisis talks 10 days later, Merkel’s
response to the turmoil that began more than two years ago
affects everything from  Greece ’s fate to President Barack Obama’s re-election. Her future as chancellor and her political
legacy are also at stake.  Merkel is stepping up her calls for closer “fiscal union”
in Europe to tackle the debt crisis at its roots. Greek
elections in four days threaten to herald the first expulsion of
a country from the 17-nation currency union. That would provide
the first test of a 100 billion-euro ($125 billion) financial
backstop for  Spain  and push the chancellor to signal whether
she’ll do more to halt the turmoil.  Following Kohl  Merkel is a convert to the ideal symbolized by Kohl, who is
credited with achieving German reunification after 41 years of
division. Merkel grew up under communism in the east and became
Kohl’s protégée after the  Berlin Wall  fell in 1989, joining the
Christian Democratic Union party that anchored West Germany’s
pro-European stance after World War II.  “There is no doubt that she sees herself in this
tradition,” Winkler said. “Every German government with a good
understanding of German interests has a duty to push ahead with
the European project” and ensuring that Europe has democratic
legitimacy.  Merkel’s own history is intertwined with the optimism-
filled days of liberation after communism collapsed. A trained
physicist, she was 35 when she joined those crossing to West
Berlin on the night of November 9, 1989. Local authorities
estimated that 20,000 people  thronged past the barrier  at the
Bornholmer Bridge within an hour.  “We weren’t the first in Germany, but we were there when
the  Cold War  collapsed,” Merkel said in 2009 at the same spot,
where she chose to mark the 20th anniversary of the fall of the
wall. “It was one of the happiest moments of my life,” she
said later that day. Merkel declined to be interviewed for this
article.  Seizing the Moment  Kohl, then West German chancellor, seized the moment from
the opposite side. He persuaded doubters led by British Prime
Minister  Margaret Thatcher  to back the reunited Germany that
would become Europe’s dominant country, and sealed the deal
within 11 months.  Merkel, by then active in East German pro-democracy
politics, joined his Cabinet after Kohl won the first post-unity
election in December 1990. Merkel had become a public figure as
deputy press secretary for Lothar de Maiziere, the east’s only
freely elected prime minister.  “Everything I do, I do out of the firm conviction that
Europe is our good fortune, a good fortune we must preserve,”
Merkel said in an interview with three European newspapers in
January. “I suffered for 35 years, until the Wall fell, from
not being able to just go to Western Europe. That was my dream.
This is my continent.”  Austerity Capital  Yet under Merkel, the reunited Berlin has shifted from the
symbol of unity to the capital of austerity that is driving a
wedge through the euro region. She has endured vilification and
Nazi-era comparisons in Greece in the name of protecting German
taxpayers. She lost her closest crisis-fighting ally,  Nicolas Sarkozy , after Socialist Francois Hollande beat him to the
French presidency in May on a platform of ending Merkel-inspired
budget cuts.  Her refusal so far to do more to preserve Europe leaves her
increasingly isolated, while record-low German borrowing costs
underscore the strain in the euro region. Germany sold two-year
debt at a negative yield on June 3, a first that underscores
investors’ desire for security over returns. Equivalent Spanish
debt yields rose to 4.65 percent yesterday while the yield on
Italian two-year debt was at 4.37 percent.  Tipping Her Hand  Proposals in the potential endgame to save the 13-year-old
currency range from issuing shared euro-area debt to lower
borrowing costs for governments in southern Europe, to using EU
money to spur growth in nations struggling under budget
tightening demanded by Germany in return for aid. Germany would
face extra costs of 47 billion euros a year through the
alignment of  interest rates  with nations that pay more to
borrow, the Munich-based Ifo institute said on Aug. 17.  While Merkel repeats her resistance to joint euro bonds,
she has given some hints of what she might be prepared to
consider, leaving the door open to a European fund that would
help governments scale back outstanding debt, an idea floated by
her council of economic advisers, and more centralized EU bank
regulation.  She has ramped up her support for deeper political and
economic integration in the euro region, backing EU President
Hermann van Rompuy and European Central Bank chief  Mario Draghi 
as they draft proposals on fiscal union by the June 28-29 EU
summit. To her, that means more centralized policing of over-
spending by national governments.  Niagara Falls  Former German Foreign Minister  Joschka Fischer  blamed both
Merkel and Hollande’s influence on policy making for the
impasse. “The major players are still in a state of denial,”
he said during a panel discussion on May 30. “It’s like you can
hear the Niagara Falls and Mrs. Merkel is opening umbrellas.”  Fischer, who defied his Greens party by sending troops into
the war for Kosovo in 1999 in the name of solidarity with
allies, said Merkel will have to agree eventually to underwrite
common debt.  “We will get euro bonds,” he said. “It’s not a matter of
whether or not, it’s a question of timing.”  For all the pressure, Merkel has another constituency:
German voters, who go to the polls in September next year. As
the turmoil in the euro zone tugs at the EU’s seams, the
resilience of Europe’s biggest economy means Germans have
remained immune from the recession that the European Commission
predicts will afflict the entire bloc this year.  Germany posted growth of 0.5 percent in the first quarter.
Unemployment dropped to 6.7 percent in May, the lowest since
reunification. In  France  the rate is 10 percent, while Spain is
fighting 24.4 percent, the highest in Europe.  Exports Boon  The euro, combined with wage restraint that Germans say was
flouted in bailed-out countries, has benefited German exporters
by keeping the country’s real exchange rate between 15 percent
and 20 percent lower than if it had kept the deutsche mark,
Citigroup Global Markets analyst Nathan Sheets estimated in a
 Jan. 27 note to clients .  Voters continue to say Merkel is their favorite politician.
While her party has lost ground at state elections since the
crisis began, the CDU leads the main opposition  Social Democrats 
by 4-6 percentage points in national polls.  Eighty-three percent of Germans would want Greece to leave
the euro area if the country reneges on its economic reform
commitments, according to an Infratest Dimap poll for ARD
televion. The May 5-6 poll of 1,001 people has a margin of error
of as many as 3.1 percentage points.  Voter Trust  “Germans tend to trust Merkel and Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  to make the best of the crisis,” Joachim
Koschnicke, a partner at the Berlin-based Forsa polling firm,
said by phone. “She has public support for rejecting euro
bonds. If she blinks on that, she risks losing support for her
crisis policy.”  Merkel may be more forthcoming after June 17 elections in
Greece and in France, where Hollande is looking to consolidate
his May 6 presidential victory in parliamentary voting, said
 Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Berenberg Bank in London.
She may, for instance, open the door to joint  deposit insurance ,
he said in an interview.  “The German policy response will always rise to the
occasion, but it’s not that all of a sudden Germany will change
everything and take over all the debt,” he said. “It just
won’t happen.”  As weaker-than-forecast economic data in China, Japan and
the U.S. are blamed on the crisis, the chancellor is pushing
back, saying there’s no “big-bang” solution. Tackling the
fallout requires “a lot of stamina,” she says.  Changing Tack  Merkel has shown herself adept at changing tack as events
require.  She dropped her opposition to bank bailouts in October 2008
after an industry-led rescue of Munich-based Hypo Real Estate
Holding AG collapsed and the government had to step in. She
backtracked and agreed to a lifeline for Greece in May 2010,
sparking public anger that cost her control of Germany’s most
populous state. Merkel took flak in March 2011, losing a state
her party had held for more than 50 years after she reversed her
support for nuclear power.  As she contemplates her next step from her seventh-floor
office at the Berlin chancellery, Merkel has a panoramic view of
the line that split the city and once symbolized all Europe’s
division. Behind the desk she has occupied since 2005 hangs a
portrait of Konrad Adenauer, the first postwar chancellor and
godfather of  West Germany ’s economic revival and reintegration
into Europe after Nazi rule.  “I do believe that she is a European by conviction,” said
Teltschik, who is no longer in politics. “Merkel can move
amazingly quickly and depressingly slowly. She never announces
strategic decisions much in advance. But when she spies a
turning point, she makes up her mind.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  