-- AAA Euro Nations at Risk as Crises Worsens, Fitch Says
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-06-12T10:43:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/euro-zone-ratings-under-strong-downward-pressure-fitch-warns.html
Sovereign credit ratings inside the
euro area, including those of AAA nations, risk downgrades as
policy makers fail to demonstrate they can end the region’s debt
crisis, according to  Fitch Ratings .  Ratings in the currency bloc are under “strong downward
pressure,” Fitch Managing Director  Ed Parker  said at an event
in Oslo today. If there’s “no light at the end of the tunnel
soon,” the risk of a breakup of the 17-member euro area will
rise, he said. Policy makers are likely to continue “muddling
through” and the “last minute” solutions are raising the cost
of managing the crisis, he said.  Euro-zone leaders presented the bloc’s fourth bailout at
the weekend as Spain sought as much as 100 billion euros ($125
billion) to rescue its banks. The deal was pieced together ahead
of June 17 elections in Greece that may result in Europe’s most
indebted nation exiting the currency bloc as anti-austerity
parties rail against bailout terms.  Yields on debt sold by  Spain ,  Italy  and Greece rose today.
Spain’s 5.85 percent note due 2022 sank as the yield jumped 14
basis points to 6.65 percent. Borrowing costs on similar-
maturity Italian notes rose 10 basis points to 6.13 percent.
German 10-year yields gained eight basis points to 1.38 percent.  ‘Positive Step’  “We have done an assessment of the recapitalization needs
of the Spanish banking sector and we think, in our base case, we
need 50 billion euros to 60 billion euros,” Parker said in an
interview after his prepared comments. “In a stressed, kind of
Irish severe  stress test ,” the figure might be as high as 90
billion euros to 100 billion euros, he said. “So the package
that was announced on the weekend is sufficient for that
assessment. We see it as a positive step that can help to
stabilize things.”  The “key concern” remains the risk of contagion should
 Greece  exit the euro, Parker said. While the direct impact of
the nation’s departure would be small, a disorderly exit could
also hurt the ratings of the euro region’s AAA rated nations, he
said. There is “huge” uncertainty about the fate of Greece,
Parker said.  Only four euro nations --  Germany ,  Luxembourg ,  Finland  and
the Netherlands -- still carry the top AAA credit grade at the
three main ratings companies. Fitch rates Spain BBB, while it
puts Italy’s long-term debt at A-.  Italy Vs Spain  Spain, which said June 9 there are no fiscal terms attached
to its bailout, will fail to meet its budget deficit targets
this year and next, Parker said, adding to a backlash against
more bailout spending that is gaining traction in core countries
such as Germany and Finland.  Italy is unlikely to need external support, Parker said.  “Italy is much closer to getting to a sustainable macro-
economic position,” Parker said in the interview. “It is now
running a pretty small  budget deficit , has a much lower current
account deficit, doesn’t have these problems in the banking
sector.”  Italy will bring its budget deficit to 2 percent of gross
domestic product this year, the European Commission estimates.
That compares with a 6.4 percent shortfall in Spain. Spanish
debt will be 80.9 percent of GDP in 2012, compared with Italy’s
124 percent, according to the commission. Greece will post a 7.3
percent deficit on debt of 161 percent of GDP, the commission
said.  Still, “Italy does have high levels of government debt so
there is very little headroom there to absorb any further
negative shocks,” Parker warned.  ECB Cash  A Greek exit from the euro area would also make a third
offering of three-year loans from the  European Central Bank 
“inevitable,” Fitch Co-Head of Financial Institution Ratings
James Longsdon said at the same event today. More long-term
liquidity support from the ECB is growing “increasingly
likely,” he said.  The ECB channeled more than $1 trillion into  Europe ’s banks
in December and February to help prop up bond markets. Though
the loans initially showed signs of helping to stabilize the
region, Spanish and Italian bond yields have since resumed their
ascent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  