-- Europe Must Stick to Austerity to Exit Crisis, Jain Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-06-12T18:41:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/europe-must-stick-to-austerity-to-exit-crisis-jain-says.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  co-Chief Executive
Officer Anshu Jain backed German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
calls for European states to implement austerity measures and
said banks must renew their “contract with society” in his
first public speech leading the country’s largest lender.  “I don’t believe that deficit spending is the right path
for Europe,” Jain said today in a speech at a conference in
Berlin organized by Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union . “To
advocate a policy of austerity is, simply, to have the courage
to recognize reality.”  Jain, a native of  India  and investment banker, threw his
support behind Merkel’s policies as he seeks to woo German
politicians, citizens and companies and keep Deutsche Bank among
the top global banks. The firm, a pillar of the Germany’s
corporate landscape, benefits from being anchored in its home
market, Jain said in English after initially addressing
delegates at the conference in German.  “Banks have fallen from grace” following the 2008
financial crisis after engaging in excessive risk-taking, Jain
said. “We in the banking industry must also face up to the
biggest challenge of all: renewing our contract with society.”  While increased regulation as a consequence of that crisis
was “inevitable,” Jain reiterated calls by former Deutsche
Bank CEO  Josef Ackermann  for banks to be subject to the same
rules as their competitors in other countries.  Ackermann’s Successor  Jain, 49, the former head of the company’s investment bank,
succeeded Ackermann at the end of May together with Germany
chief Juergen Fitschen. Pairing the two is an attempt to bridge
Deutsche Bank’s roles as an investment bank that vies with Wall
Street firms such as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and a Frankfurt-
based lender to German companies.  The co-CEO, who shared a podium today with German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , reiterated that Deutsche Bank is
“committed” to its so-called universal bank model of
investment bank and retail operations under one roof.  While  Europe  has avoided a “systemic event,” risks remain
such as those related to the outcome of  Greece ’s election next
week, said Jain.  Spain’s request over the weekend for European Union aid for
its banks was an “example of a well-orchestrated response to
what had become a source of great concern,” Jain said.  “We are living through the most severe financial crisis
since the birth of modern Europe,” he said. “No single
European country can hold its own against the U.S.A. or  China .
To succeed, we must integrate further. The outcome is still to
be decided. There is no doubt in my mind: Europe can recover,
and emerge stronger, from this crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  