-- European Stocks Rise for First Time in Three Days
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-06-12T16:07:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/european-stock-futures-little-changed-lafarge-may-move.html
European stocks  rose for the first
time in three days on speculation that the Federal Reserve will
opt for more stimulus, outweighing a surge in Spanish borrowing
costs to a euro-era record.  TomTom NV (TOM2)  rallied 16 percent after  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  agreed to use
its digital maps.  Lafarge (LG)  SA rose more than 2 percent after
announcing plans to increase earnings by 54 percent by 2015.
 Lagardere SCA (MMB)  retreated 2.4 percent after the company lowered
its advertising-revenue target.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  gained 0.6 percent to 243.44 at
the close in London, after earlier sliding as much as 0.4
percent. The index yesterday erased gains in the final hour of
trading yesterday as optimism faded that the 100 billion euro
bank bailout for Spain would contain the debt crisis. The gauge
has  retreated 11 percent from its high this year  on March 16.  “There is hope,” said Jerome Forneris, who helps manage
$8.5 billion at Banque Martin Maurel in Marseille. “People will
say: in nine days, the Fed will do what it can to support the
economy. It’s a very important factor of support for U.S. and
European stocks. It wouldn’t surprise me to see a strong
announcement from the Fed to boost the  U.S. economy .”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  holds its next policy
meeting on June 20.  Federal Reserve  Bank of Chicago President
 Charles Evans  said he would support a variety of measures to
generate faster job growth.  Evans Favors Stimulus  “I’ve been in favor of pretty much any accommodative
policy I’ve heard about,” Evans said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu for
broadcast today. “Extending the Twist would be useful,” he
said, referring to a plan expiring this month that lengthens the
average duration of bonds in the Fed’s portfolio. “More asset
purchases would be useful. More mortgage-backed security
purchases would be good.”  The volume of shares changing hands on the Stoxx 600 was 16
percent higher than the average of the last 30 days, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Spanish borrowing costs climbed as European  government
bonds  slumped on concern policy makers aren’t doing enough to
prevent the currency bloc’s financial woes from deepening. The
 yield  on Spain’s 10-year bonds rose 20 basis points to 6.71
percent today, after earlier breaching the euro-era record of
6.78 percent reached on Nov. 17.  Fitch Ratings’ Managing Director  Ed Parker  warned at an
event in Oslo today that Spain’s government will miss its
budget-deficit targets for this year and next.  Fitch Downgrades Lenders  Fitch cut the longer-term issuer default ratings of 18
Spanish banks today, including  Bankia SA. (BKIA)  The company downgraded
Spain’s sovereign rating last week. Fitch cited concern that
loans will further deteriorate.  National benchmark indexes advanced in 11 of the 18
western-European markets. France’s CAC 40 climbed 0.1 percent,
the U.K.’s FTSE 100 added 0.8 percent and Germany’s DAX
increased 0.3 percent. Italy’s FTSE MIB slid 0.7 percent as bank
stocks retreated.  TomTom surged 16 percent to 3.80 euros, its biggest rally
since October after Apple agreed to use its digital maps in the
next version of its mobile software.  Lafarge climbed 2.1 percent to 31.28 euros after the
world’s largest cement maker said it will increase its earnings
by 1.75 billion-euro ($2.2 billion) with new products and
spending reductions. That included 1.3 billion euros in cost
cuts over the period.  Basilea, Julius Baer  Basilea Pharmaceutica (BSLN)  AG added 4 percent to 46 Swiss francs
after  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  bought the marketing rights to the
company’s only approved drug for 146 million pounds ($227
million). The British drugmaker will pay an additional 50
million pounds if the treatment reaches agreed goals.  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  climbed 2.7 percent to 32.54 francs
after UBS AG upgraded the shares to buy from neutral, saying the
“current environment poses only an earnings risk for  Julius
Baer , not a balance-sheet risk.”  EON AG, Germany’s largest utility, advanced 2 percent to
14.62 euros. The stock was also raised to buy from neutral at
UBS AG, which predicted a re-rating of the stock during the
second half of this year.  Lagardere slipped 2.4 percent to 18.86 euros.  France’s
largest publishing company  lowered its advertising revenue
target for its media business for this year. The company
forecast that media-advertising sales will fall 3 percent to 5
percent. It had predicted flat revenue growth for the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  