-- Euro Drops as Spanish Bond Yields Surge Amid Crisis
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-06-12T21:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/euro-drops-as-spanish-bond-yields-surge-amid-crisis.html
The euro fell against most of its
major counterparts after Spanish bond yields surged and  Fitch
Ratings  said the nation won’t meet budget-deficit goals, adding
to concern Europe’s debt crisis is worsening.  The 17-nation currency fluctuated against the dollar, after
weakening for a fourth day, as Spain’s 10-year bond yields
reached a euro-era record. New Zealand’s dollar and the  Mexican
peso  rose as stocks advanced amid increased demand for higher-
yielding assets. The yen weakened versus most peers after the
 International Monetary Fund  said it was overvalued.  “The euro has been very volatile,” said  John Doyle ,
director of markets in Washington at currency-trading firm
Tempus Consulting Inc. “We’re seeing the euro-dollar cross
consolidate down near these levels ahead of the election in
Greece this weekend. Italy and the Italian bonds are going to
start coming into focus, which will push the euro lower.”  The euro fell as much as 0.3 percent before trading at
$1.2503 at 5 p.m. in New York. It fell 0.4 percent to 80.31
pence. The shared currency rose 0.3 percent to 99.43 yen after
dropping as much as 0.4 percent. The Japanese currency added 0.1
percent to 79.53 against the dollar.  The implied volatility for one-month euro-dollar options,
which indicates expected swings in the underlying currencies,
reached 13.3 percent, the highest since Jan. 3. The JPMorgan G7
 Volatility Index , a measure of volatility among the Group of
Seven nations’ currencies, rose 0.03 percentage point to 11.2
percent.  Kiwi Rises  The  New Zealand dollar  strengthened 1.1 percent to 77.72
U.S. cents and the peso gained 0.8 percent to 13.9767 against
the greenback.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  added 1.2 percent and oil,
Mexico’s largest export, rose 0.9 percent to $83.47 a barrel.  The yield on 10-year Spanish  debt  touched 6.83 percent, a
euro-era record. Similar-maturity Italian bond yields rose 14
basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 6.17 percent, after
reaching as high as 6.30 percent.  Fitch Managing Director  Ed Parker  said Spanish Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  will miss budget-deficit targets this
year “by a substantial margin.” The nation asked for 100
billion euros ($125 billion) of aid for its banks on June 9.  Spain’s Debt  The European Commission forecasts that Spain will post
deficits of 6.4 percent of gross domestic product this year and
6.3 percent in 2013 even after unveiling 45 billion euros of
spending cuts and tax increases. Rajoy’s aim is a deficit of 5.3
percent of GDP.  Fitch also cut its rating on 18 Spanish banks, citing
concern about further loan deterioration. The company cut
 Spain ’s long-term credit rating to BBB on June 7, two levels
from junk status.  “It’ll take a while to digest the Spanish news, especially
as some of the details of that package are still to be
specified,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at
Wells Fargo & Co. in New York. “We have the looming Greek
elections on Sunday, which are seen as a huge element of
uncertainty.”  Greece is scheduled to hold elections on June 17 after a
previous vote last month failed to produce a viable governing
majority.  Japan’s currency strengthened 8.1 percent in the past 12
months, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes,
which track 10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar rose 8.8
percent, while the euro weakened 6.6 percent.  Japan Policy  Japan  should consider additional monetary stimulus,
including buying longer-maturity government bonds and private
securities, the IMF said in a report today.  “The  exchange rate  has appreciated over the past year
partly because of safe-haven capital inflows, and our analysis
suggests that the yen is moderately overvalued from a medium-
term perspective,” the IMF said. Intervention can be used to
counter volatile currency movements,  David Lipton , the fund’s
first deputy managing director, said in Tokyo.  The BOJ, which starts a two-day policy meeting on June 14,
refrained from adding to monetary stimulus last month after
expanding its asset-purchase program in April. Japanese Finance
Minister Jun Azumi earlier this month pledged to take
“decisive” action on currencies after the yen climbed to 77.66
per dollar, the strongest since February.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, lost 0.2 percent to 82.374.  The gauge may decline to a one-month low after it briefly
dropped to its 25-day moving average yesterday, according to
Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd., a unit of Japan’s largest
currency-margin company.  A decline below the average will signal the start of a
correction, with initial support at 80.49, said Takuya Kawabata,
a researcher at Gaitame.com in Tokyo. That’s the 61.8 percent
retracement of its advance from a May 1 low to a June 1 high, he
said, referring to Fibonacci analysis. Support refers to an area
where buy orders may be clustered.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 Dliedtka@bloomberg.net  