-- Europe Crisis Threatens Emerging Markets, World Bank Says
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-06-12T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/europe-crisis-threatens-emerging-markets-world-bank-says.html
The euro region’s debt crisis has
increased risks for  emerging markets  from Thailand to  Turkey 
that also face domestic constraints, according to the  World
Bank , which cut its outlook for 2013 global growth to 3 percent.  The Washington-based lender predicts the world’s economy
will expand 2.5 percent this year, the same as a January
forecast, after gains earlier this year were sapped by renewed
market volatility over Greece and Spain. Next year’s prediction
is down 0.1 percentage point from January.  “In the immediate term, tensions emanating from the euro
area are the most serious potential risk for developing
countries,” the World Bank said in its twice-yearly report. In
the 17-country euro region, “bond yields on the debt of several
countries have reached levels that, in the past, have been
associated with” international rescue packages.  Spain  last week became the fourth nation sharing the euro
to seek a bailout since the start of the debt crisis more than
two years ago, prompting a decline in Italian bonds and equities
yesterday on concern the nation may be the next to succumb. No
region in the world would be spared if the situation in  Europe 
were to sharply deteriorate, according to the World Bank, which
urged emerging markets to build cushions for tougher times.  Capital Flows  “The developing countries in the case of a financial
crisis will need all the ammunition that they have available to
address that,” Hans Timmer, the director of the Development
Prospects Group at the bank, told reporters. “One of our
concerns is that, at the moment, there are much fewer buffers,
smaller buffers in  developing countries  than in 2007.”  They already feel the pain, according to the report, which
says gross capital flows to developing countries shrank 44
percent in May from the month before. The quantity of syndicated
bank loans to  Russia  organized and led by European banks fell by
50 percent in the six months through March 2012, the World Bank
said.  India  last week outlined projects including new ports and
road to support an economy expanding at the weakest pace in
nearly a decade. China unveiled its first reduction in borrowing
costs in more than three years.  Capital outflows and increased risk aversion have also led
to  currency depreciation  in many emerging markets and a drop in
commodity prices, according to the report.  Remain Volatile  “Even if the current phase of tensions passes, the
external environment for developing countries is likely to
remain volatile and challenging,” the World Bank said. “Loose
monetary policies, and, as yet, unresolved fiscal and banking-
sector problems in high-income countries are likely to keep
international capital flows and business confidence volatile.”  The euro area is projected to contract 0.3 percent this
year, unchanged from the World Bank’s January forecast. The euro
area next year may grow 0.7 percent from a previous estimate of
1.1 percent.  Developing economies are also facing domestic difficulties.
After leading the world out of recession over the past two
years, about 60 percent of them are operating close or above
their economic potential, Timmer said.  That “suggests that they will not be able to provide as
much an impetus to global growth as before,” the bank said.  Inflation is above long-term average in nations from
 Argentina  to  Thailand  and monetary policy remains “very loose”
in countries including China and  Indonesia , according to the
report.  For a lot of emerging countries, the focus should be on
increasing their productivity and their financial strength to
face potential hardship, Timmer said.  ‘Production Potential’  “If you look at where developing countries are now
relative to their production potential, there’s no need for
short-term stimulus,” he said in an interview.  The World Bank expects growth in developing economies to
reach 5.3 percent in 2012 and 5.9 percent next year, cutting
forecasts by 0.1 percentage point for both years.  That compares with an unchanged 1.4 percent this year in
advanced counterparts, as well as 1.9 percent next year, less
than the 2 percent predicted in January. The U.S. is seen
growing 2.1 percent this year, from 2.2 percent in January, and
2.4 percent next year.  China  may grow 8.2 percent this year and 8.6 percent next
year, compared with January estimates of 8.4 percent and 8.3
percent.  India’s expected expansion of 6.6 percent this year is more
than the 6.5 percent expected five months ago, though the bank
now sees growth of 6.9 percent next year compared with 7.7
percent in January.  The Bank also updated a study on the impact on the rest of
the world of a more severe European crisis. It estimates that
world growth would be 4.5 percent lower than currently expected
next year if two large countries, accounting for 30 percent of
the euro region’s economy, faced a credit freeze.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  