-- Fed’s Evans Says He Would Support Various Stimulus Plans
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 2012-06-12T16:25:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/evans-says-slow-jobs-rebound-favors-any-form-of-fed-stimulus.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  said he would support a variety of
measures to generate faster job growth, underscoring his
preference for more stimulus.  “I’ve been in favor of pretty much any accommodative
policy I’ve heard about,” Evans said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu that was
aired today. “Extending the Twist would be useful,” he said,
referring to a plan expiring this month that lengthens the
average duration of bonds in the Fed’s portfolio. “More asset
purchases would be useful. More mortgage-backed securities
purchases would be good.”  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  is meeting
next week as slowing job growth at home and a deepening crisis
in  Europe  weigh on the outlook. Evans, who doesn’t vote on the
FOMC this year, has been one of the most vocal proponents of
additional easing at the Fed.  “I would prefer that we worked harder to clarify our
forward guidance,” Evans said in the interview recorded
yesterday in Chicago, reiterating his call for the central bank
to commit to low  interest rates  until the unemployment rate
falls below 7 percent or inflation breaches 3 percent.  The FOMC last met April 24-25, when it said it expected to
keep its benchmark rate near zero through at least late 2014 to
reduce an “elevated” level of joblessness. Fed officials will
also be releasing their revised forecasts for joblessness,
growth and inflation on June 20.  2.5% Growth  “At the moment we’re looking at probably 2.5 percent
growth over the next two years,” Evans said. “I’d like the
economy to be a lot stronger. As long as it’s only economic
shocks I think we’d be able to weather that without too many
difficulties.”  “I’m sure that we’ll get the  unemployment rate  below 7
percent -- the question is when,” said Evans, who was the only
member of the FOMC last year to dissent in favor of more
stimulus. “It’s currently going to take longer than anybody
would like. If we had more aggressive monetary policy, it would
happen sooner.”  Labor Department figures showed June 1 that U.S. employers
added the fewest number of workers in a year last month, fueling
concern that the U.S. recovery is losing steam. Fed Vice
Chairman  Janet Yellen  said last week she sees more scope for
easing while San Francisco Fed President  John Williams , a voting
member of the FOMC this year, called on policy makers to stand
ready to act should the recovery falter.  U.S. Stocks  U.S. stocks rose today, rebounding from yesterday’s slump,
as speculation that policy makers will stimulate the economy
overshadowed concern about Europe’s debt crisis after  Fitch
Ratings  downgraded 18 Spanish banks.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.8 percent to
1,318.71 at 11:36 a.m.  New York  time after briefly erasing gains
following Fitch’s announcement. It fell 1.3 percent yesterday.
The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  added 108.80 points, or 0.9
percent, to 12,520.03 today.  While Spain’s 100 billion-euro bailout is a “turning point
for the better,” the Fed must do what it can to ensure the  U.S.
economy  can withstand “any shocks we get from Asia or Europe or
from fiscal policy here in the U.S.,” Evans, 54, said. “It’s
good policy to make sure we have the most vibrant economy
possible.”  The Chicago Fed chief told reporters after a speech
yesterday that additional asset purchases would be helpful even
with Treasury yields near record lows. Purchases of mortgage-
backed securities would “provide additional confidence in the
fact that our low-rate policies would be here for some period of
time,” he said.  That contrasted with the views of some officials, including
Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart , who said yesterday he
doesn’t see a need for more accommodation now partly because
Treasury yields are so low.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Betty Liu in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  