-- Levin ‘Confident’ Automatic Budget Cuts Will Be Averted
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-06-12T17:32:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/levin-confident-automatic-budget-cuts-will-be-averted.html
U.S. Senator  Carl Levin , chairman of
the Senate Armed Services Committee, expressed confidence today
that automatic cuts that would reduce Pentagon spending by $500
billion over a decade will be averted.  “We’re going to find a way to avoid the sequestration, in
my opinion,” the Michigan Democrat told reporters in
 Washington . He said the economy may be damaged if a compromise
is delayed until the lame-duck session after the November
election.  As part of an accord, Levin said, his “best guess” is
that defense spending can be cut about $10 billion annually
without hurting national security, or $100 billion over 10
years.  He said any deal that averts the automatic cuts must
include increased revenues, something Republicans so far have
been unwilling to agree to in debates over reducing the  budget
deficit . Most Republicans, except for some Tea Party supporters,
“want to avoid sequestration” and could change their minds,
Levin said.  “I’m confident we will avoid sequestration,” he said.  A total of $1.2 trillion in automatic, across-the-board
cuts to both domestic and national-security programs will take
place over 10 years, beginning in January, if Congress doesn’t
act to make adjustments this year. The cuts were imposed after
talks failed last year on a bipartisan plan to curb the nation’s
 soaring debt .  ‘Confidence-Building’  Levin said he wants to see lawmakers agree on a
“confidence-building measure” well before the November
election that would demonstrate to consumers and investors a
level of bipartisan support for changes in the sequester.  He said such a proposal could include an outline of a debt-
reduction plan that has support of lawmakers in both parties,
even if the specifics would be worked out and voted upon later.
He said it also could come from bipartisan agreement to extend
the portion of the expiring 2001 and 2003 tax cuts that affect
the middle class, with lawmakers reserving judgment on tax rates
for higher-income earners until a debt deal is negotiated.  Levin said all recent debt-reduction plans, including ones
agreed to under Presidents  Ronald Reagan  and  George H.W. Bush ,
included some tax increases. This time can’t be any different,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  