-- Ex-Fund Manager Sues Saying RBS Ignored Fraud Warnings
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-06-12T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/ex-fund-manager-sues-saying-rbs-ignored-fraud-warnings.html
A former hedge-fund manager sued
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ’s NatWest unit claiming the
bank ignored evidence its accounts were used to conduct what may
be one of Britain’s biggest Ponzi schemes, in which he lost
about 19.3 million pounds ($30 million).  He and the firm he founded, Jeremy D. Stone Consultants
Ltd., sued NatWest and one of its managers, Paul Aplin, for
negligence, dishonest assistance, deceit and conspiracy, seeking
about 24 million pounds. The complaint was filed in  London  in
April and made available by the court last week.  The alleged fraud was carried out by Jolan Saunders, 36,
and Michael Strubel, 50, through companies that said they sold
electrical equipment to hotels, according to court papers filed
by Stone, a former portfolio manager at London-based Marble Bar
Asset Management LLP. Saunders and Strubel, who were previously
sued by Stone, aren’t named as defendants in the claim.  The U.K. Serious Fraud Office said in an e-mail it was
investigating a suspected  Ponzi scheme  and made five arrests in
2010. No one has been charged and the agency refused to say who
had been arrested. Kautilya Nandan Pruthi, who was jailed in
March, ran the largest U.K. Ponzi scheme to date that defrauded
investors of more than 115 million pounds.  Accounts tied to Saunders’s and Strubel’s firms took in as
much as 300 million pounds, according to a transcript of a 2010
phone conversation involving Aplin that was included in Stone’s
lawsuit. Saunders used money from investors in the companies to
pay back loans and interest to other investors, the “definition
of a Ponzi scheme,” according to Stone’s claim. The companies,
including Essex-based  Saunders Electrical Wholesalers Ltd.  and
Zac Fashions Ltd., had little or no actual revenue.  Vigorous Defense  “These claims have been thoroughly investigated and we
believe they have no merit,” RBS spokesman David Gaffney said
in an e-mail. “The bank will defend itself vigorously.”  Aplin declined to comment via Gaffney.  Strubel wasn’t aware the investments he was making were
part of a Ponzi scheme, his lawyer Bob Scott said in a phone
interview. He said Strubel was “as much a victim as anyone
else,” losing about 3 million pounds of his own money.  Saunders’s lawyer  Adrian Ring  said his client was assisting
the SFO and declined to comment further.  Investors may have lost a total of 40 million pounds,
according to a person familiar with the  SFO probe  who declined
to be identified because the person wasn’t authorized to speak.  Aplin and NatWest agreed to “turn a blind eye” to large
cash withdrawals and lack of deposits into the accounts, Stone
said in legal filings. While there were “clear warning signs
for a reasonably competent banker, NatWest took no substantive
or effective action to investigate or prevent the use of its
accounts.”  London Trial  In defense papers filed at court last month, the bank said
the fraud wasn’t proven. A trial on Stone’s claim against the
bank is scheduled in London for later this year.  Bernard Madoff  is serving a 150-year jail term after he
pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating what U.S. prosecutors
called the biggest Ponzi scheme in history. The bankruptcy
trustee of his firm has sued banks including JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and HSBC Holdings Plc for ignoring fraud warning signs.  In the 12 months ending in May 2010, about 88 million
pounds flowed in and out of the Saunders Electrical Wholesalers
account at NatWest, Stone claimed in an amended complaint.
Saunders and others withdrew as much as 100,000 pounds a week
from a NatWest branch in Barkingside Essex, while several
million pounds worth of checks written from the accounts
bounced, according to the court documents.  Aplin, a relationship manager at NatWest, communicated with
Saunders and Strubel 769 times by phone or text message during
the period, Stone’s lawyers said in court papers.  Suspicious Activity  Dan Morrison , a lawyer at  Grosvenor Law LLP  representing
Stone, said NatWest had internal reports on suspicious activity
in the accounts between 2006 and 2010 and didn’t act on them. By
2009 and 2010, “the bank was actively assisting the architects
of the Ponzi scheme to hide the fraud,” he said in an e-mail.  In separate lawsuits filed in 2010, Saunders, Strubel and
their companies and family members were sued by Stone and two
other investors who claimed they lost money in a fraud. The
investors won default judgments and freezing orders against
Saunders’s assets, Morrison said. The judgments couldn’t
immediately be confirmed with the court.  The case is: Jeremy D. Stone Consultants Ltd., Jeremy Stone
v. National Westminster Bank Plc, Paul Aplin;  High Court  of
Justice,  Chancery Division ; HC11C00276.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  