-- Ex-Singapore Drug Enforcement Head Face Corruption Charge
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-06-12T06:13:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/ex-singapore-drug-head-faces-sex-for-favors-charges.html
Former  Singapore  Central Narcotics
Bureau director Ng Boon Gay was charged with four counts of
corruption for obtaining sexual favors from a female information
technology executive seeking contracts from the agency.  Ng, 46, obtained “sexual gratification” from the woman
between June to November last year, when she worked at Hitachi
Data Systems Pte, and in December, when she was at Oracle Corp.
in Singapore, according to charge sheets filed at the city’s
subordinate court today.  The charges come less than a week after former Singapore
Civil Defence Force commissioner Peter Benedict Lim Sin Pang
faced similar charges involving three women seeking contracts
for their companies. Singapore reviewed its public sector
financial procedures after uncovering a S$12.5 million ($9.7
million) fraud in September 2010 by two former land authority
workers in an incident prosecutors said severely shook public
confidence in the internal controls at government agencies.  “The cases have taken some shine off Singapore’s
reputation for being relatively corruption-free,” said Eugene Tan, a  Singapore Management University  law professor who’s also
a member of Parliament with limited  voting rights . “But one
could also look at the two cases and say that the fact that
these have been uncovered and that they are being prosecuted
shows the robustness in the system.”  Contesting Charges  Ng will contest the charges and will seek more information
on how he had allegedly helped in furthering the interest of
Oracle and Hitachi Data, his lawyer Tan Chee Meng said. The next
court hearing for Ng, who’s out on S$10,000 bail, is on June 26,
he said.  “Personal indiscretions aside, Boon Gay firmly believes he
is not a corrupt officer,” Tan said.  Ng’s wife, who was in court with him, has “never doubted”
his professional integrity and will stand by him, Tan said,
citing her statement.  Hitachi Data said in an e-mailed statement “any alleged
inappropriate behavior attributed to our former employee during
her time at HDS, was undertaken without the knowledge of, or
being condoned by, anyone at HDS.”  Charlotte  Sam, a spokeswoman at Oracle in Singapore,
declined to comment in an e-mailed response.  Ng faces a fine of as much as S$100,000 and a jail term of
as long as five years for each charge.  No Locations  The court documents didn’t list the locations where the
encounters took place. Lim’s case involved locations ranging
from parking lots in the city to a Paris hotel, the court sheets
showed. Lim didn’t enter a plea, according to the Straits Times.  Lim and Ng was investigated in December on allegations of
“serious personal misconduct,” the government  said  earlier
this year.  Glenn Knight, a former director of the Commercial Affairs
Department was sentenced to a day’s jail in 1998 and suspended
from legal practice on corruption charges in 1991. The  Straits
Times  said the investigations this year rank among the highest-
level probes of civil servants since Knight’s case.  “It certainly suggests that corruption still remains a key
source of concern,” Tan at Singapore Management University said.
“These two high-profile cases point to the need for continued
vigilance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  