-- Mexican Antitrust Regulator Puts Pressure on Billionaires
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-06-12T20:27:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/mexican-antitrust-regulator-puts-pressure-on-billionaires.html
Eduardo  Perez Motta , Mexico’s chief
antitrust regulator, has seen his staff members get blocked,
bullied and even beaten by the companies they’re inspecting.  Perez Motta himself has been hauled in front of federal
investigators, accused of bias and kicked out of the meeting
that determined one of his agency’s most important rulings. Now,
after eight years on the job, the 56-year-old says he’s finally
getting what he’s been seeking all this time: cooperation.  He helped broker a settlement last month with billionaire
 Carlos Slim  that cut fees in return for concessions, and he’s
poised to announce a deal with the nation’s dominant TV
broadcaster soon. Perez Motta’s agency used to lose 75 percent
of antitrust cases in  Mexico ’s appeals courts; now he wins
three-quarters of them, he says. That shift, the result of hard-
learned lessons in and out of the courtroom, has made the
country’s business barons more willing to compromise.  “The companies we regulate have been very demanding,”
Perez Motta said in an interview. “You never stop learning.”  For some critics, the concessions coming from corporate
chieftains are still too small. Consumer group AlConsumidor AC
says Perez Motta’s Federal Competition Commission didn’t do
enough to punish Slim, the world’s richest person according to
the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , after he used his market heft
to inflate prices for decades. When the antitrust agency settled
the case, it removed a $1 billion sanction against Slim’s
company,  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB.  Making Progress  America Movil agreed to the settlement to “create
certainty in the market” and “address the commission’s
concerns,” said Alejandro Cantu, the Mexico City-based
company’s general counsel.  Criticism of the settlement misses the point, Perez Motta
argues. The fact that Slim agreed to a deal is a sign of
progress in itself, and more Mexicans are seeing the benefit of
competition between Slim and rivals, he says.  A settlement may be coming shortly in another high-profile
case. Last week, the agency reviewed an appeal by broadcaster
Grupo Televisa SAB. The company has said it will offer a
compromise to overturn a January ruling blocking its investment
in the wireless business. A settlement could involve
“firewalls” between the mobile-phone investment and other
businesses, Chairman  Emilio Azcarraga  said in March.  Perez Motta, interviewed before the agency met, declined to
discuss the Televisa case because it was under review. Televisa
also declined to comment.  Collision Course  The decisions of Perez Motta’s agency have taken on
heightened importance as Mexico’s media and phone industries
collide. Slim is threatened by the entry of broadcasters
Televisa and TV Azteca into the telecommunications business, and
he’s responded by pulling advertising and dispatching lawyers to
impede their progress. The TV companies, led by billionaires
Azcarraga and  Ricardo Salinas , have likewise lobbied to keep
Slim out of their industry. Perez Motta, in many cases, gets to
be the referee.  “This climate of tension and differences shows you that
one side wants something that the other doesn’t like,” he said.
“From the perspective of competition, that’s good.”  America Movil  shares have gained 6.9 percent this year in
Mexico City trading, compared with declines of 7.6 percent for
Televisa and 3.9 percent for TV Azteca.  ‘Common Battleground’  Technology may have made the clash between Slim and his
fellow billionaires inevitable. Carriers can now provide voice,
video and Internet service from a single source, be it a
telephone line or cable, bringing the worlds of phone and TV
into the same orbit. Officials such as Perez Motta have been
able to use that trend as an opportunity to tighten the reins on
some of Mexico’s biggest and most influential companies.  “The government has been able to put two large financial
groups at odds in a common battleground,” said Gregorio Tomassi, an analyst at Banco Itau BBA who has followed the
industry in Mexico for more than four years.  Slim has a fortune of $64.3 billion, about 60 percent of
which comes from telecommunications. A statistics-obsessed
Yankees fan who still drives his own car around Mexico City, the
72-year-old entered the industry in 1990, buying the state-run
phone company in a privatization sale.  Video License  Slim’s America Movil has 70 percent of the mobile-phone
market and 80 percent of land lines in Mexico. Still, the wired
business is in decline, and wireless profits are shrinking
because of restrictions imposed by regulators. TV companies,
meanwhile, have entered the phone and Internet markets. Slim
aims to counterattack by getting a license to offer video
service -- something the government hasn’t granted yet.  Televisa’s Azcarraga, 44, inherited the broadcast business
from his father, a man known as “the Tiger” for his combative
style. The company has grown into an international Spanish-
language empire, with a stake in U.S. network Univision and
cable networks that air as far south as  Argentina .  Salinas, 56, made his fortune giving high-interest loans to
poor Mexicans for household appliances and acquired a
government-owned TV chain in 1993. That became TV Azteca SAB.  All three are taking advantage of an expanding economy and
relatively low inflation. Mexico’s gross domestic product grew
4.6 percent in the first quarter, the fastest pace in more than
a year. Consumer prices rose 3.85 percent last month from a year
earlier, higher only than Colombia and  Chile  among  Latin
America ’s seven largest economies.  Presidential Election  Mexico’s presidential election on July 1 will determine who
will pick Perez Motta’s successor. The front-runner, Enrique Pena Nieto, has advocated specialized courts to handle antitrust
cases. While President  Felipe Calderon  has advocated lifting
Mexico’s 49 percent cap on foreign investment in land-line phone
companies, Pena Nieto has said that should happen only when
Mexicans are allowed to own such assets in other countries.  The confrontation between the telecommunications titans has
been an irresistible soap opera for Mexicans, who are accustomed
to living with industries such as beer and cement that are
dominated by a few companies.  “We’re seeing convergence between two industries that
didn’t compete with each other before,” said Maria Elena
Gutierrez, a communications professor at Universidad
Panamericana in Guadalajara. “This hadn’t existed.”  Former Professor  Perez Motta has been waiting for this moment since he began
a 10-year term as president of the Federal Competition
Commission in 2004. The former college professor, who served as
Mexico’s ambassador to the  World Trade Organization , inherited
an antitrust agency that had been created only a decade earlier
and was still struggling to establish itself as an enforcer.  Slim had already warded off the antitrust agency’s attempts
to rein in his power. When the commission determined in 1997 and
in 2004 that Slim’s  Telefonos de Mexico  was dominant in the
phone business, the carrier made sure the rulings couldn’t be
enforced by filing injunctions.  Perez Motta faced other challenges from companies such as
 Gruma SAB (GRUMAB) , a corn-flour producer. After a 2007 decision to block
the company from making an acquisition, Gruma called the cops to
stop antitrust officials from entering its offices, Perez Motta
says. Then Gruma got the ruling overturned by the  Supreme Court 
because the company hadn’t been notified in time. The lesson was
clear: Antitrust officials couldn’t afford a single mistake.  A Gruma spokesman didn’t respond to phone and e-mail
messages seeking comment on the incident.  ‘We’ve Learned’  A standoff this year showed how far the agency has come.
Antitrust officials sent to deliver news of an unfavorable
ruling against Salinas-owned mobile-phone company Grupo Iusacell
SA were met by corporate security. A confrontation ensued, with
one antitrust representative receiving a blow to the face.  This time the outcome was different. A throng of local news
media was on hand to witness the scuffle, and federal police
showed up to aid the agency. Iusacell was served the papers. A
spokesman for the company declined to comment.  “The judicial branch has given us clear guidelines to do
things correctly,” Perez Motta said. “We’ve learned.”  He’s learned other lessons as well. Last year, Perez Motta
spoke with the press about the agency’s bringing the $1 billion
sanction against America Movil for anticompetitive practices. In
Mexico, it was known as the “megafine.”  For talking publicly about the case, even though an appeal
hadn’t yet been filed, Perez Motta deserved to be recused from
further deliberations, America Movil argued. His fellow
commissioners agreed, and when the antitrust commission took up
the appeal on April 30, Perez Motta wasn’t able to vote.  Unanimous Vote  The commission decided unanimously to revoke the fine, with
some conditions. To get out of paying the $1 billion, America
Movil agreed to put into writing a plan it had announced last
year to reduce the fees it charges rivals. If America Movil goes
back on its word, the penalty will be harsher.  Perez Motta says he would have voted for the settlement if
he had been allowed to participate. The fee cuts will produce $6
billion a year in savings for consumers, which makes the
settlement better than fighting a long court battle over the $1
billion fine, he says. Never before had Slim’s company offered a
compromise or volunteered to share information to avoid a
penalty, Perez Motta told reporters last month.  “If you had been through my experience of the last seven
and a half years and had been in the trenches like I have, you
would see what a big deal this is,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  