-- Expat Experiments in London Fuel Drug Sales in Japan
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-06-12T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/expat-experiments-in-london-fuel-drug-sales-in-japan.html
Tadasuke Takahashi, a  London  hair
stylist, supplements his income by taking part in medical
studies that offer him about $1,000, bento box meals of rice and
fish, and Japanese comic books during a 6-night hospital stay.  During his time in London clinics, Takahashi, 33, takes
experimental drugs so researchers can determine if his reaction
is any different than that of Caucasian volunteers. These
overseas tests are part of an effort by  Japan ’s government and
the pharmaceutical industry to speed up approvals in a market
where a complex regulatory process had delayed treatments for an
aging population for years after U.S. and European clearance.  The changes are now yielding results. They have spurred
double-digit growth in sales for  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and GlaxoSmithKline
Plc in Japan, as the debt crisis depresses revenue in Europe and
growth slows in the U.S.  “It has been a terrific two years for Pfizer Japan, as we
have had over 20 submissions” for approval, said Jorge Puente,
president of Pfizer’s Asia Pacific and Canada regions, in an
interview. The country’s drug regulator “has become flexible,
in my experience, and is open to engage in discussions to try to
understand the position of the company.”  Demand for diabetes, cancer and dementia treatments is
rising in Japan, the world’s most rapidly aging nation with
people 65 or older representing 23.3 percent of the population,
according to a government report. Growing social acceptance of
medical treatment for mental illnesses is also driving sales of
depression and schizophrenia drugs, according to market
researcher IMS Health Inc., which says Japan will remain the
world’s second-largest market behind the U.S. in 2015.  Sales Surge  Revenue at New York-based  Pfizer, the market leader,  rose
11 percent to 576 billion yen ($7.3 billion) in Japan last year
as the overall market grew 6.9 percent, according to IMS.
Glaxo’s Japan pharmaceutical sales jumped 28 percent last year,
a trend that continued in the most recent quarter ended March.
The London-based company recorded the steepest growth in sales
last year among the top 20 drugmakers in Japan, IMS said.  Sales there will help drugmakers offset a decline in
 Europe , whose share of spending on medicines will drop to 19
percent in 2015 from 27 percent in 2005, Danbury, Connecticut-
based IMS said. Glaxo’s sales fell 4 percent in the region and
were unchanged in the U.S. last year. Pfizer’s European sales
 dropped  5 percent, while U.S. sales slid 7 percent.  New Rules  Revenue is rising in Japan because the government is trying
to get its aging citizens access to the latest treatments as
their health declines. Lawmakers implemented a pricing program
that pays more for new medicines that offer a significant
improvement in patients’ quality of life and health compared
with older therapies. In another change, drugmakers can avoid
repetition of expensive studies by recruiting expatriates like
Takahashi, a native of Nagoya in central Japan, from London to
 Hawaii , speeding approval times.  “The Japanese government in the last ten years or so has
made it so drugmakers now go through a much less onerous process
to get approval,” said Jonathan MacQuitty, a  Menlo Park ,
California-based partner at health-care venture capital firm
Abingworth. “That has coincided with  Asia  becoming a more
important market, where growth is going to occur.”  Abingworth invests in SFJ Pharmaceuticals Inc., which helps
companies including Pfizer introduce drugs in Japan.  Pricing Program  Under a pricing program that began in 2010 and was renewed
in April, new medicines that offer a significant benefit to
patients over existing treatments may command a price as much as
120 percent higher than those of older drugs, according to Alan
Thomas, director of Japan business planning and analytics, for
IMS.  Japan’s biennial price-cutting plan also was revised,
resulting in more than 400 compounds receiving lower price
reductions or being exempted this year under a new set of
criteria, Thomas said.  “That system is stimulating the right behavior,”  Glaxo (GSK) 
Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Witty  said in an interview.
“It’s attracting people to bring innovation into the Japanese
marketplace.”  Before regulatory reform in Japan, U.S. and European
drugmakers conducted the three required phases of clinical
trials in Western countries. Once approved in those markets,
companies had to repeat the entire process in patients in Japan,
creating a “drug lag” and ballooning costs, said Robert
DeBenedetto, chief executive officer of San Francisco-based SFJ
Pharmaceuticals. That lag was as long as nine years after U.S.
and European clearance, IMS said.  ‘Drug Lag’  The trials had to be repeated because of concerns about
side effects in Japanese, who tend to have lower body weight and
may require lower doses than Caucasians, said Colin Vose, who
led strategic business development for Japan and  South Korea 
from 1999 to 2005 at Quintiles Transnational Corp., the biggest
provider of testing and drug-trial services.  That changed in 1998, when Japan accepted the concept of
bridging studies, which pave the way for clinical data gathered
in one country to be used in regulatory filings in another.
Bridging studies are small trials that observe both healthy
Japanese participants and Caucasian subjects to study whether
there are any differences in how a drug is processed in the
body.  London Trials  Hammersmith Medicines Research, a London hospital center,
recruits expatriates like Takahashi, the hair stylist, for
bridging studies. Takahashi is monitored for adverse reactions
at the hospital while he watches television shows and reads
books in his native language.  “I do this two or three times a year,” Takahashi said in
an interview. “I know there are risks, but most of these drugs
have already been tested in Caucasians, so I’m not too
worried.”  If a bridging study shows the drug’s safety is equivalent
in both Japanese and Caucasian people, those results can
supplement data from trials done in other countries to avoid
repeating mid-stage studies in Japan. Late-stage trials are
still required to be conducted in Japan for most therapy areas,
according to IMS.  “That has allowed us to reduce the regulatory package that
is needed and to reduce costs,” said Klaus Beck, head of
research and development in Japan for London-based  AstraZeneca
Plc. (AZN)   Japan’s example may have implications for drugmakers trying
to expand in  China , whose regulatory guidelines will probably
evolve in a similar fashion to its neighbor, according to
Quintiles’ Vose.  “One would hope we will have learned by our experiences in
remodeling the way we’ve approached Japan,” Vose said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  