-- Facebook Marketing, Ads Lead Users to Buy, ComScore Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-06-12T20:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/facebook-marketing-ads-lead-users-to-buy-comscore-says.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s marketing and
advertising encourages users to buy products in stores and
online, the social-networking company said in a joint report
with researcher  ComScore Inc. (SCOR) , countering criticism and research
that questioned the impact of promotions on the site.  Users who saw unpaid marketing messages on the social
network about  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  bought an item at the coffee chain
within four weeks 38 percent more often than those who didn’t,
said  Andrew Lipsman , vice president of industry analysis at
ComScore. The Facebook members included those who “liked”
Starbucks and their friends.  Users who saw paid ads for another U.S. retailer, which the
report didn’t identify, bought something from the stores’
physical locations 16 percent more often, and made an online
purchase 56 percent more frequently, the report found.  “This provides some strong evidence that Facebook can be
an effective marketing channel,” Lipsman said in an interview.
“These are strong results.”  Menlo Park ,  California-based Facebook , owner of the world’s
most popular social-networking service, is trying to woo
advertisers and show that its service is effective as it works
to boost revenue from the site, which has more than 900 million
members.  Last month, just before Facebook held its initial public
offering,  General Motors Co. (GM)  said it no longer intended to
advertise on Facebook. And last week, a Reuters/Ipsos poll
showed a minority of users being influenced by ads. Just 1 in 5
people on Facebook have bought products because of advertising
or comments they saw on the site, that poll found.  Advertiser ‘Confidence’  Still, Facebook says its advertising provides strong
results for customers. Its own research shows companies saw a
return of $3 for every $1 they spent in 70 percent of
advertising campaigns, according to Brad Smallwood, head of
measurement and insights at Facebook. For almost half of
campaigns, it was $5 for every $1, he said.  “They have a lot of confidence that it’s working,”
Smallwood said.  The research includes more than 60 advertising campaigns
over the past couple of years, he said. The ads in these
campaigns were for desktop -- not mobile -- users, he said. The
company, which rolled out its mobile-ad service earlier this
year, said last month that growth in advertising revenue is
failing to keep up with user gains as more people access the
site through mobile devices.  Target’s Results  ComScore’s research also looked at  Target Corp. (TGT) ’s results,
Lipsman said. The research showed that Facebook members who
“like” the retailer, along with their friends, bought at
Target 21 percent more frequently, including both in-store and
online purchases.  Marketing on Facebook by setting up a brand page is free to
companies, though it depends on users clicking to “like” the
page, which then lets the business post messages on members’
News Feeds. With other Facebook advertising, companies pay for
their spots to be highlighted or placed on pages throughout the
service.  Facebook shares rose 1.5 percent to $27.40 at the close.
The stock has dropped 28 percent since the shares began trading
at $38 on May 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  