-- Falklands to Hold 2013 Vote on Status in Challenge to Argentina
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2012-06-12T13:45:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/falklands-will-hold-referendum-next-year-on-islands-status.html
The government of the Falkland
Islands, the British territory in the South Atlantic claimed by
 Argentina , said it will hold a referendum in the first half of
2013 on the islands’ status.  “I have no doubt that the people of the Falklands wish for
the islands to remain a self-governing Overseas Territory of the
United Kingdom,” Gavin Short, the chairman of the Falklands
legislative committee, said in an e-mailed statement today. “We
certainly have no desire to be ruled by the government in  Buenos
Aires , a fact that is immediately obvious to anyone who has
visited the islands and heard our views.”  Britain and Argentina went to war over the Falklands 30
years ago after Argentinian forces invaded the archipelago.
Tensions have heightened this year, with Argentina protesting at
the U.K.’s deployment of a modern warship to the region and
Prince William’s arrival for a stint as a military-helicopter
pilot. Argentina said last week five British  oil companies  are
operating illegally near the islands by exploring for crude.  “Next year’s referendum will determine beyond doubt the
views of the people of the Falklands,” U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron  said in an e-mailed statement. “Britain will
respect and defend their choice.”  A total of 255 British military personnel were killed while
649 Argentinian lives were lost in the 1982 conflict over the
islands, which Argentina calls the Malvinas. Britain has since
reinforced its armed forces on the islands, which have a
population of about 2,500 people.  ‘Clear, Democratic’  “We have thought carefully about how to convey a strong
message to the outside world that expresses the views of the
Falklands people in a clear, democratic and incontestable way,”
Short said. “The Argentine government deploys misleading
rhetoric that wrongly implies that we have no strong views or
even that we are being held hostage by the U.K. military.  This
is simply absurd.”  The Argentinian government said June 4 that  Borders &
Southern Petroleum Plc (BOR) ,  Rockhopper Exploration Plc (RKH) ,  Desire
Petroleum Plc (DES) , Argos Resources Ltd. and  Falkland Oil and Gas
Ltd.  don’t have the required permits to operate off the
Falklands. Salisbury, England-based Rockhopper and London-based
Borders & Southern have announced discoveries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  