-- Fitch Says Europe Debt Crisis May Hurt Emerging Asia Ratings
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-06-12T09:34:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/fitch-says-europe-debt-crisis-may-pressure-emerging-asia-ratings.html
Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis may
pressure ratings of Asian countries such as Sri Lanka, India and
 Indonesia  by disrupting global funding markets, according to
 Fitch Ratings .  Sri Lanka is most at risk due to its high external-funding
needs and weak balance sheet, said  Andrew Colquhoun , head of
Asia-Pacific sovereign ratings at Fitch. The same issues also
make India and Indonesia vulnerable compared to similarly graded
peers, he said.  The European crisis is likely “the single biggest”
external issue that may affect credit ratings in emerging Asian
economies, Colquhoun said in an e-mailed response to questions.  “If the pressures coming from overseas or from other parts
of the world were to intensify, the countries that could most
quickly see negative pressure develop on sovereign credit
profiles” include  Sri Lanka , India and Indonesia, Colquhoun
said earlier in the day at a conference in Hong Kong. “This is
not to say that we are about to take rating action on any
country mentioned here.”  Sri Lanka’s gross external financing requirements this year
equate to 95 percent of the country’s reserves, according to
Fitch projections. Indonesia and India both need outside funds
totaling at least 30 percent of their sovereign reserves,
Fitch’s presentations show.  India and Indonesia are rated BBB- by Fitch, its lowest
investment grade. Sri Lanka is ranked three levels lower at BB-.  Europe’s leaders are struggling to control the region’s
debt after Spain was downgraded to BBB by Fitch, and agreed to a
100 billion euro ($125 billion) bailout to recapitalize the
country’s banks. Greeks vote this weekend in an election that
may dictate whether the country stays in the euro.  Any Greek exit from the common currency would be
“massively economically, financially and politically
damaging,” and would probably lead to downgrades of  Spain ,
Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Cyprus, Colquhoun said. The euro
area is more likely to “muddle through” than break up, he
said.  Fitch meanwhile may upgrade South  Korea , Colquhoun said.
“Our expectation is that Korea will join the AA category within
the next 12 to 18 months,” he said, citing the nation’s income
level, the quality of public institutions and their governance,
and the economy’s resilience. Fitch currently rates the country
a fifth-highest A+.  South Korea’s reliance on European trade means that Fitch
is waiting to see how the crisis in that region plays out, he
added. The country also has a large amount of debt to refinance
this year, he said.  Exports to the European Union declined 16.4 percent from a
year earlier in the first 20 days of May, according to the
Ministry of  Knowledge Economy .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  