-- Fitch’s Chu Says China Liberalizing Rates May Add to Volatility
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-06-12T07:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/fitch-s-chu-says-china-liberalizing-rates-may-add-to-volatility.html
Charlene Chu, head of China
financial institutions at Fitch Ratings Ltd., commented on the
liberalization of  interest rates  in China. She made the remarks
to reporters at a press conference in Hong Kong today.  On China’s interest rate liberalization:  “If you look back over the last decade, the main source of
stability in the Chinese banking sector was the very stable
policy environment that was very strict in terms of government-
set interest rates and a closed capital account, which led to
very stable capital funding.  ‘‘So the fact that they are moving on both fronts at the
same time, both in terms of capital account opening as well as
interest rate liberalization, is a lot of change in a short
amount of time.  ‘‘We are quite worried that this could add to volatility in
the banking sector. The problem is that they do have funding
challenges and they need more money to be coming in from
offshore.  ‘‘If they were to significantly slowdown the pace of
liberalization, then they will be increasingly reliant on
domestic funding and that could also be difficult for them.  ‘‘I think so far they have been fairly modest in terms of
the pace.’’  On the domination by  China ’s larger banks:  ‘‘Clearly, there seems to be a shift in the mindset over
the past six months about the need to have a more diversified
financial system that meets the needs of all corporate borrowers
and particularly SMEs rather than having such a few number of
very large banks that can dictate the terms of everything.  ‘‘That, combined with the recent interest rate moves, to me
suggest that there is a lot more open-mindedness about trimming
the profitability of these large state banks and, over the
longer term, that is definitely going to be negative for them
because these guys are having to raise capital every 12 to 18
months because profitability is not keeping up with asset
growth.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  