-- Five Questions for Jamie Dimon
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-12T22:40:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/five-questions-for-jamie-dimon.html
Jamie Dimon ’s appearance on  Capitol
Hill  today is a sad occasion: A top bank executive explaining
how his company’s bets went bad while lawmakers grasp for ways
to fix the system.  It’s been four years since the 2008 financial crisis and
signs of progress are hard to find. Trading mistakes at big
deposit-taking banks can still threaten the economy, and
regulators still can’t do much about it, as  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s $2 billion-plus blunder demonstrates. Efforts in Congress
to gut regulatory-agency budgets and weaken new financial rules
aren’t encouraging.  But hope springs eternal, and we’d like to hope that
Congressional questioning of Dimon helps  Washington  take
necessary steps to repair our financial system. Here are some
suggestions:  Q: Can you explain how a group of traders in  London  lost so
much money at a large, federally insured financial institution?  Dimon’s singular focus on risk management helped JPMorgan,
a behemoth with more than $2.3 trillion in assets, escape the
financial crisis largely unscathed. But as Bloomberg News
reports, he gave the  chief investment office  -- where traders
managed as much as $375 billion in excess cash, some of it from
depositors -- wide latitude and encouraged speculative risk-
taking. The unit cycled through five chief risk officers in six
years, which might help explain why huge credit-derivatives
positions went unaddressed. If one of the best risk managers on
 Wall Street  was unable to oversee such activities, one wonders
what place such trading should have in any deposit-taking lender
whose failure would be costly to taxpayers and the economy.  Q: Could the Volcker rule have prevented the losses, or at
least made you scrutinize the trades more closely?  The  Volcker rule , a central part of the Dodd-Frank
financial reform law, is supposed to prevent big banks from
engaging in the kind of speculative trading that landed JPMorgan
in hot water. A top Federal Reserve official indicated at a
Senate hearing last week that, had the rule been in place,
JPMorgan executives would at least have had to monitor the
trades more closely -- a process that could have led them to act
differently. If the Volcker rule as currently drafted would have
allowed the trades, it should be refined. There’s still time:
Thanks to banks’ opposition, the rule has yet to be finalized.  Q: What kind of access and information would regulators
need to spot positions like JPMorgan’s? Did they have what they
needed?  Senator  Bob Corker  of  Tennessee  recently called it a
“fool’s errand” to think regulators can stay a step ahead of
Wall Street. He has a point: The head of the  Office of
Comptroller of the Currency , JPMorgan’s bank regulator,  told 
lawmakers the OCC was unaware for months about the disastrous
trades, even though 65 of its examiners were at the bank. This
failure strengthens the case for the  Office of Financial
Research , an entity set up by Dodd-Frank, as it starts to build
the data-collection systems required for regulators or anyone
else to identify the kind of large, concentrated positions that
can threaten market stability. If that data were made public --
a move banks oppose -- independent analysts and even journalists
might help regulators do their jobs.  Q: Why do you say requiring banks to have more capital is
bad for the economy, if it would help banks keep lending after
losses like this?  Dimon has been a vocal foe of boosting capital levels,
saying it will drive up lending costs and hurt the economy. He
may be glad no one listened: JPMorgan’s  Tier 1 common equity  of
about $128 billion, or 8.2 percent of assets weighted according
to risk, is now allowing it to absorb its losses without sharply
curtailing other businesses.  We’re all lucky, though, that the loss wasn’t large enough
to overwhelm the capital of such a big institution. Research by
economists at the  Bank of England  suggests that a capital level
of 20 percent of risk-weighted assets would help minimize the
threat of such disasters. So far, U.S. regulators are aiming no
higher than 10 percent.  Q: Would losses like this be more or less likely if the
U.S. exempted foreign subsidiaries from Dodd-Frank?  JPMorgan and other banks have been fighting a  plan  by the
 Commodity Futures Trading Commission  to extend regulation of
credit-default swaps and other derivatives to overseas trades.
They say the rules, designed to shed light on the transactions
and protect the system from the failure of any single
counterparty, would harm their ability to compete abroad.  JPMorgan’s London trading operation demonstrates how an
exemption for foreign trades would lead banks to move their
speculative activities abroad, while the risk of disaster would
still be borne in the U.S. JPMorgan’s losses in London, for
example, will be absorbed by the U.S.-based parent company.  The larger question, of course, is can the  U.S. economy 
absorb the shock of another banking debacle. The answer is no,
which is why we should hope that today’s session puts us on
course to find a balance between innovation and stability in the
financial system.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: The editors on  the Bush family’s lessons for
Republicans ; Clive Crook on  Spain’s pain and Merkel’s folly ;
 Edward Glaeser  on  what the 1912 election tells us about 2012 ;
 Margaret Carlson   on the joys and sorrows of being Jeb Bush ; Emi
Nakamura on  how the U.S. could become like Argentina ; Robert
Hockett on  splitting Europe in half .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 