-- Ex-SNB Head Hildebrand Joins BlackRock as Vice Chairman
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-06-13T00:40:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/former-snb-head-hildebrand-joins-blackrock-as-vice-chairman.html
Philipp Hildebrand, who resigned as
head of the Swiss central bank in January over a currency trade
by his wife Kashya, is joining  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  as vice chairman.  Hildebrand will start in October and be based in  London ,
Bobbie Collins, a spokeswoman for the world’s biggest asset
manager, said yesterday. He’ll oversee the New York-based firm’s
relationships with institutional clients outside the U.S. and
report directly to Laurence D. Fink, the chairman and chief
executive officer.  Hildebrand, who took over as president of the  Swiss
National Bank  in January 2010 and helped toughen financial
regulation, left on Jan. 9 over the purchase of $504,000 by
Kashya in August, three weeks before the SNB imposed a currency
cap. Lawmakers including Christoph Blocher from the populist
 Swiss People’s Party  had called for his resignation. A probe
concluded in April that Kashya Hildebrand’s transactions didn’t
breach any regulations.  Philipp Hildebrand, a former hedge-fund partner, joined the
central bank in 2003, becoming its youngest ever policy maker.
His two-year term as president of the Zurich-based SNB was the
shortest in the central bank’s history.  While at the helm of the SNB, he forced UBS AG and  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  to boost capital buffers. He also lowered
borrowing costs to zero and introduced the first currency
ceiling since the 1970s to help protect the economy and fight
deflation threats.  Fink’s Push  Fink, who co-founded BlackRock in 1988, built the firm into
a $3.68 trillion asset manager through a series of  acquisitions ,
including the 2006 purchase of Merrill Lynch & Co.’s investment
unit. The firm bought  Barclays Global Investors  in December
2009, which made it the world’s biggest asset manager and added
passive products such as the iShares exchange-traded funds to
its offerings.  More recently, Fink has started a campaign to make
BlackRock better known, and he has been asserting the firm’s
views on pivotal issues including money-fund rules and the
dangers of complex exchange-traded funds, sometimes at odds with
firms such as  Fidelity Investments  and Societe Generale SA. He’s
seeking to become a champion of corporate governance, urging 600
companies where BlackRock has its biggest stakes in to adopt
shareholder-friendly practices.  BlackRock has also advised governments including those in
Ireland and  Greece  since the start of the European sovereign
debt crisis. The firm worked for other government agencies in
Europe after the financial crisis in 2008, including Germany,
Switzerland and Sweden. The unit that advises governments and
financial institutions on hard-to-value assets is called
BlackRock Solutions.  Moore Alumnus  “Europe has been a particularly large area of growth for
us,” Fink said, referring to interest in alternative products
among institutional investors, during a conference call with
analysts and investors in April.  Before joining the SNB, Hildebrand was chief investment
officer at private banks Vontobel Group in Zurich and Union
Bancaire Privee in Geneva. He worked for hedge fund Moore
Capital Management LLC starting in 1995, where he was first in
charge of strategy for  Europe  and fixed income before being made
partner in 1997.  Hildebrand’s move to BlackRock was reported earlier by the
Financial Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  