-- Former HKMA Chief Calls for Review of Hong Kong Dollar Peg
-- B y   F i o n   L i   a n d   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2012-06-12T18:09:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/former-hkma-chief-calls-for-review-of-hong-kong-dollar-peg-1-.html
Joseph Yam , the former  Hong Kong 
monetary chief who helped introduce a dollar peg in 1983 and
defended it against speculators during the Asian financial
crisis, said the city should review its currency policy.  “There is a need to address the question as to whether the
monetary system of Hong Kong, as currently structured, can
continue to serve the public interest of Hong Kong,” Yam wrote
in an  academic paper  titled ‘The Future of the Monetary System
of Hong Kong.’ He outlined alternatives including a link to the
yuan and said his decision to address the topic at this time
“should not necessarily imply the need for change.”  Yam is the most senior serving or former Hong Kong official
to speculate on changes to the 29-year-old currency link and
Financial Secretary  John Tsang  told a press briefing he was
“surprised” by the comments, adding that there are no plans to
adjust the exchange rate. “Given Yam is the former chief, these
remarks have significant implications and deserve serious
attention,” said Raymond Yeung, a Hong Kong-based economist at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  The Hong Kong dollar rose as much as 0.09 percent versus
the greenback before trading little changed at HK$7.7586 as of
6:05 p.m. local time, the biggest intraday move this month. It
touched HK$7.7535, the strongest level since Feb. 22. Twelve-
month forwards gained 0.06 percent to HK$7.7457, 0.17 percent
stronger than the spot rate.  ‘Fully Committed’  Hong Kong Monetary Authority Chief Executive  Norman Chan ,
who succeeded Yam in October 2009, said today in a joint
statement with Financial Secretary Tsang that the government is
“fully committed” to the dollar peg and has no intention to
change it. The paper published by Yam, who is an honorary
professor of The  Chinese University  of Hong Kong’s business
school, “contains nothing particularly new,” Tsang said at
today’s press briefing.  The city’s Chief Executive-elect Leung Chun-ying, who
begins a five-year term on July 1, said today there are no plans
to adjust the link. Yam supported Leung’s rival,  Henry Tang , in
the city’s leadership contest in March. The current leader,
 Donald Tsang , said in November the existing exchange-rate system
would stay at least until the yuan becomes fully convertible.  The  International Monetary Fund  said it had looked “very
carefully” at the  exchange-rate  system when conducting its most
recent annual assessment of Hong Kong’s economy in December.  The system is “simple, credible, transparent, is widely
understood, and merits continued support,” according to an
emailed statement.  Capital Outflows  The Hong Kong dollar peg was adopted in 1983, when
negotiations between  China  and the U.K. over returning the city
to Chinese control triggered capital outflows. The city’s
currency has been kept at about HK$7.8 per dollar since 1983. In
2005, policy makers committed to limiting the currency’s decline
to HK$7.85 per dollar and capping gains at HK$7.75.  Yam’s paper said the trading band could be widened or
turned into “a corridor” whose width, slope and center could
be periodically reviewed. The latter option could be managed
against the dollar,  yuan  or a basket of currencies, he wrote.  China ended its own peg to the dollar in July 2005, saying
it would manage the exchange rate against a basket of
currencies, and the yuan has strengthened 30 percent versus the
greenback in that time. Chinese officials told European Union
business executives that the yuan will achieve “full
convertibility” by 2015, EU Chamber of Commerce in China
President Davide Cucino said on Sept. 7.  Home Prices  There has been talk about whether Hong Kong should scrap
the peg or re-peg to the Chinese yuan, as the current fixed
exchange rate means the city’s monetary policy is largely
dictated by the U.S., where a jobless rate of 8.2 percent has
led the  Federal Reserve  to pledge near-zero  interest rates 
through 2014. Hong Kong’s home prices have gained more than 80
percent since early 2009, supported by record-low  mortgage
rates .  “With the yuan increasingly becoming an international
reserve currency, this debate will be getting more serious,”
ANZ’s Yeung said. “I think the  Hong Kong dollar  will be more
volatile.”  In January 2011, Hong Kong lawmakers Chim Pui Chung and Lam
Tai Fai urged a review of the peg. Anita Fung, chairman of the
Hong Kong Association of Banks and chief executive officer for
Hong Kong at HSBC Holdings Plc, said today there is no “urgent
need” to revise the current system.  More Volatility  With the dollar peg, Hong Kong has “inherently a higher
degree of volatility in economic activities and in domestic
prices,” Yam wrote in his paper. The city’s inflation has been
“widely recognized” as uncomfortably high and asset bubbles
have been a feature, he noted.  HSBC Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  and his
counterpart at the Bank of East Asia Ltd., David Li, said in
August 2011 that any shift could be to a link with a basket of
currencies.  William Ackman , founder of hedge fund Pershing Square
Capital Management LP, said in September he’d placed a wager
that would profit if Hong Kong allows its currency to appreciate
against the dollar to curb inflation. The easiest way for the
authorities to allow the currency to appreciate would be to
change the peg to HK$6 per  U.S. dollar , a 30 percent gain, and
then link to the yuan over three to six years, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  