-- Four Seasons Hualalai Hotel Loan Sent to Special Servicer
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-06-12T21:26:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/four-seasons-hualalai-hotel-loan-sent-to-special-servicer.html
A loan on the luxury Four Seasons
Resort Hualalai, a joint venture of Rockpoint Group LLC and
 Michael Dell ’s MSD Capital LP, was transferred to a special
servicer because of maturity default,  Fitch Ratings  said.  The loan has a balance of $175.9 million, Fitch said today.
Rockpoint and MSD, the investment firm started by the  Dell Inc. (DELL) 
founder and his family, bought the property in June 2006 for
$503.7 million, according to Scott Pritchard, a director for
structured finance at Fitch.  Special servicers negotiate with landlords on behalf of
investors in commercial mortgage-backed securities. The resort’s
owners are in talks with lenders and seeking a later maturity.
The fourth and last extension on the loan expired on June 9,
according to Fitch.  The borrowers “will continue to make interest payments on
the mortgage during the discussions with lenders,” Patrick
Fitzgerald, chief executive officer of the resort, said in an e-
mailed statement. “We are confident that the discussions will
lead to a multiyear extension of the maturity date.”  A tsunami triggered by the 9.0-magnitude earthquake in
eastern  Japan  caused more than $10 million of damage to the
hotel on March 11, 2011, primarily to landscaping. Losses from
tsunami disruptions probably will be covered by insurance, Fitch
said in its note. The 243-room, five-star property, on Hawaii’s
Big Island, has a golf course, two outdoor swimming pools and
three tennis courts, according to Fitch.  The original balance of the interest-only, floating-rate
loan on the resort was $354.4 million, Pritchard said.  Occupancies at U.S. luxury hotels climbed to 72 percent
this year through April from 70 percent a year earlier,
according to  Smith Travel Research , based in Hendersonville,
 Tennessee . That’s the highest among the seven lodging categories
the firm monitors. On Oahu, the only Hawaiian region Smith
Travel tracks, occupancies were 84 percent, the best performance
among the top 25 U.S. markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  