-- Fraga Leads Brazil Private Equity Beyond India as Selic Falls
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-06-12T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/fraga-leads-brazil-private-equity-beyond-india-as-selic-falls.html
Brazil ’s  private equity  and  venture
capital  industry will grow by more than 20 percent this year
after it overtook  India  in fund raising, according to the
Brazilian Association of Private Equity and Venture Capital.  The most aggressive interest-rate cuts among Group of 20
industrialized nations are encouraging Brazilian pension funds
to sell  government bonds  and invest in private equity, said
Clovis Meurer, president of the association known as Abvcap. The
central bank has cut the benchmark rate, known as Selic, 4
percentage points in the past 10 months to a record 8.5 percent.
Increased support from Brazil’s development bank and antitrust
regulation changes also are boosting the business, he said.  “With the constant fall of the benchmark Selic, the
pension funds have been seeking alternatives to government
bonds,” Meurer said in a phone interview yesterday from  Porto
Alegre , Brazil. “That has been very good for the private equity
business.”  Brazilian buyout funds led by former central banker Arminio Fraga’s Gavea Investimentos Ltda.,  BTG Pactual (BBTG11)  and Vinci Capital
Gestora de Recursos raised $7.1 billion last year, up from $1.1
billion in the previous year, according to an annual report by 
the Washington-based  Emerging Markets  Private Equity Association.
Chinese buyout funds raised $16.6 billion while Indian firms
took in $2.7 billion and Russian firms lured $135 million,
according to the group.  Buyout funds in Brazil invested $2.5 billion in 47 deals
last year, compared with China’s $10.5 billion in 270 deals,
India’s $6.2 billion in 275 deals, and Russia’s $1.6 billion in
29 deals, according to the EMPEA report.  Fogo de Chao  Thomas H. Lee Partners , a Boston private equity firm,
agreed in May to buy Fogo de Chao, the churrasco-style
steakhouse with restaurants in Brazil and the U.S., from  GP
Investments Ltd. (GPIV11)  for an enterprise value of $400 million.  Brazil’s central bank reduced the benchmark lending rate to
a record 8.5 percent in May, saying the economy is recovering at
a “very gradual pace” and the risk of inflation remains
limited.  The country’s development bank, known as BNDES, plans to
invest 1 billion reais ($484 million) in Brazilian companies
through private equity and venture funds until 2014,  Luciano Coutinho , its president, said in a speech April 16 at the
opening of an Abvcap conference.  Brazil increased last month the minimum revenue of
companies involved in merger and acquisition deals to be
analyzed by the country’s antitrust regulator, known as Cade.  Deal Regulation  The minimum revenue rose to 750 million reais from 400
million reais for the larger company in a transaction and to 75
million reais from 30 million reais for the smaller company,
according to a decision published in the official gazette last
month. New rules also require that companies report deals before
they are closed.  “The very important rules will make these business
operations more efficient,” Meurer said in the phone interview
yesterday. “On the other hand, there is some concern that the
operations could take more time because Cade must approve them
first now.”  Brazilian pension funds were first allowed to invest in
private equity in 2003 with the introduction of fundos de
investimento em participacoes, or FIPs, closed-end investment
funds that could invest in public or private companies,
according to the EMPEA report. In 2009, the national monetary
council allowed pension funds to invest up to 20 percent of
their assets into domestic or real-denominated private equity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  