-- G-20 Must Help Europe Stem Debt Crisis, German Official Says
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-06-12T16:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/g-20-must-help-europe-stem-debt-crisis-german-official-says.html
Group of 20 nations all have a
responsibility to help tackle the financial crisis in the euro
area because the turmoil increases risks to the world economy,
two German government officials said.  Countries outside  Europe  can help counter the crisis by
making good on pledges to boost the International Monetary
Fund’s financial firewall, the officials said in Berlin today,
commenting on condition of anonymity because the talks have yet
to take place.  Germany  will also call attention to the U.S.
 budget deficit ,  China ’s exchange rate and  Japan ’s debt when G-20
leaders meet in Mexico, they said.  The comments signal possible conflict at the June 18-19
talks as German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  defends her austerity-
led response to the debt crisis and seeks to limit the focus on
Europe after  Spain  became the fourth euro-area nation to seek a
bailout. Germany will reject any attempt at the summit to
introduce growth measures fueled by debt, one of the officials
said.  “Simply borrowing” is not the answer to solving the debt
crisis in the 17-nation euro region, Merkel said in a speech in
Berlin today.  G-20 leaders will meet at Los Cabos,  Mexico , as perceived
risks rippling from the euro area rise and indicators start to
suggest the world economy is slowing, one German official said.
All countries must do their part to strengthen the economy, he
said.  Greek Impact  Greece’s possible exit from the currency union is hanging
over the summit as Greeks go to the polls on June 17. Merkel
will be traveling to Mexico when the first results come in and
European finance ministers will issue a statement on the
election result at the G-20 if needed, the German officials
said.  “The question whether Greece implements its program, the
question whether obligations will be kept at all in the future”
have an impact that goes beyond  Greece , Merkel said in her
speech. All European Union countries, not just Greece, must
stick to their obligations for economic overhauls to show the
euro region can solve its problems, she said.  Fighting the debt crisis is a long process and the rest of
the G-20 can and should help by ensuring they bulk up the IMF’s
crisis backstop as agreed in April, one German official said.  G-20 countries agreed during the lender’s spring meetings
to more than double its war chest with $430 billion in pledges.
European governments committed $200 billion of the new funds.  Merkel’s message to her G-20 peers will be similar to the
one she delivered at the Group of Eight summit in Camp David,
 Maryland , in May, according to the officials. Germany will
resist any pressure for further stimulus spending and views both
budget austerity and growth-spurring measures as solutions to
the debt crisis, the officials said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  