-- German Stocks Resume Advance; EON, Siemens Lead Gains
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-06-12T16:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/german-stocks-advance-as-eon-gains-offset-spain-concern.html
German stocks advanced to their
highest level in nearly two weeks as speculation that the
 Federal Reserve  will opt for more stimulus outweighed Fitch
Ratings’ decision to downgrade 18 Spanish lenders.  EON, the country’s biggest utility, rose 2 percent after
UBS AG raised its recommendation on the stock. Bayer AG climbed
1.5 percent. Siemens AG rose 1.1 percent. Deutsche Bank AG and
Commerzbank AG, the country’s biggest lenders, fell at least 1
percent.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  rose 0.3 percent to 6,161.24 at the close in
Frankfurt, after swinging between gains of as much as 1.1
percent and a decline of 0.9 percent. The gauge has fallen 14
percent from its high on March 16 amid growing concern that
 Greece  will have to exit the euro currency. The broader HDAX
Index rose 0.2 percent.  “The negative impact of contagion risk is increasing, with
Spain not out of the woods after the 100 billion-euro bailout,
if deep reforms are not undertaken,” said  Robert Halver , head
of capital markets research at Baader Bank AG. “Italy is the
next candidate for financial support.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  holds its next policy
meeting on June 20. Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago President
 Charles Evans  said he would support a variety of measures to
generate faster job growth.  Spain’s bond yields touched a euro-era record of 6.83
percent as Fitch Ratings’ prediction that Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  will miss budget deficit targets stoked concern a 100
billion-euro ($124 billion) lifeline for banks won’t be enough
to stabilize the economy.  “Who will be buying Spanish bonds subordinated to the
European Stability Mechanism?” asked Duarte Caldas, a market
strategist at IG Markets in Lisbon. “We are trying to solve a
problem by creating more debt.”  Spanish Banks Cut  Fitch also cut its long-term issuer default ratings on 18
Spanish banks, citing concern about further loan deterioration
for lenders exposed to the construction and real estate
industries.  EON added 2 percent to 14.62 euros after it was raised to
buy from neutral by UBS, which said the utility had a total
return opportunity of about 50 percent, with a two-year view.  Bayer,  Germany ’s largest drugmaker, increased 1.5 percent
to 50.82 euros.  Siemens AG, Germany’s biggest engineering company, rose 1.1
percent to 65.81 euros.  Deutsche Telekom Gains  Deutsche Telekom AG jumped 1.7 percent to 8.01 euros.
Telefonica SA and Royal KPN NV, weighing a $20 billion merger of
their German businesses, would probably face protracted
regulatory scrutiny delaying any savings and restricting
potential stock gains.  A combination of Telefonica’s O2 and KPN’s E-Plus would cut
the number of network operators in Germany to three and create
the country’s largest wireless-service provider by customers. An
antitrust review could drag into 2013, with possibly different
outcomes depending on whether the European Commission or the
German Federal Cartel Office takes on the case, said Frederik
Wiemer, an antitrust lawyer at Heuking Kuehn in Hamburg.  Deutsche Bank fell 1 percent to 28.11 euros and Commerzbank
retreated 1.4 percent to 1.35 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  