-- Germany Cuts Debt Sale Plan in Focus on Short-Term Bills
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-06-12T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/germany-cuts-2012-debt-sale-plan-in-refocus-on-short-term-bills.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government cut the total amount of debt it aims to sell this
year under a new budget plan drafted to pay for the euro area’s
permanent rescue fund.  The federal government will sell 256.9 billion euros ($320
billion) in bonds and bills this year, down from the 260.4
billion euros in the original budget, the revised plan posted on
parliament’s  website  showed. The  Finance Ministry  reduced sales
of bonds with a maturity longer than one year by 11 billion
euros and adding 7.4 billion euros in bills maturing within 12
months.  Merkel’s government reopened the budget to finance 8.7
billion euros in spending on the European Stability Mechanism,
which is due to come into force in July. Yet tax-revenue growth
this year and savings on planned outlays were larger than
planned, allowing the reduction in bond sales.  The supplementary budget shows that the biggest shift
affects bonds with a maturity of between one year and four
years. The government will sell 55.3 billion euros of the debt
compared with 65.3 billion euros earmarked in the earlier
budget.  The sale of bills maturing within a year will increase to
76 billion euros compared with 68.6 billion euros. Planned sales
of debt with a maturity of one year to 30 years, which includes
 Germany ’s benchmark 10-year bunds, remain little changed at
125.5 billion euros, compared with 126.4 billion euros, the
draft shows.  Germany released a federal debt plan for 2012 in December,
when it forecast sales of 250 billion euros. The total was
revised earlier this year to include anticipated costs for the
ESM and the sale of index-linked bonds, bringing the total to
260 billion euros. The Frankfurt-based Federal Finance Agency,
which manages the debt sales, will release a third-quarter
calendar at the end of this month.  Investors’ search for security as the debt crisis worsens
has pushed the cost of German borrowing to record lows. The
government has offered zero coupons on several maturities,
including a six-month bill sold yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  