-- Germany Coach Keeps Penalty Takers Secret in Echo of 1974 Chaos
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-06-12T23:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/germany-coach-keeps-penalty-takers-secret-in-echo-of-1974-chaos.html
German soccer players are perceived
-- especially by the English -- as being totally steadfast when
faced with taking a penalty kick. It wasn’t always so.  At the 1974  World Cup , coach Helmut Schoen couldn’t
convince anyone, including captain  Franz Beckenbauer  and striker
Gerd Mueller, to take a spot kick. So when no one would step up
when the host nation was awarded one in the final against the
Netherlands, defender Paul Breitner grabbed the ball. He scored
and  Germany  went on to win 2-1.  “I scored this penalty because I was able to do what
people said the best footballers can do and not think,”
Breitner, 60, said in an interview in Munich.  Current Germany manager Joachim Loew said he hasn’t yet
told his players who will take a penalty kick should his team be
awarded one in tonight’s European Championship match against the
Netherlands, even if he’s already decided himself who will be
handed the task.  “I’ll be a little bit more organized,” Loew told
reporters yesterday. “I will tell them, but today I will not
say who will take the penalty.”  If  Denmark  beats  Portugal  in today’s first match, Germany
will eliminate the Netherlands with a win at the Metalist
Stadium in Kharkiv, Ukraine. Denmark upset the Dutch 1-0 in the
opening round of games, while Germany beat Portugal 1-0.  Germany is seeking a record-extending fourth title at the
quadrennial tournament, having won in 1972, 1980 and 1996. The
Dutch won the 1988 edition for their sole success at a major
 soccer tournament .  Shootout Success  According to website  Penalty Shootouts , Germany deserves
its reputation for fortitude in shootouts. The country has won
71 percent of its shootouts, second only to  Argentina  (73
percent) among teams to have played in a World Cup final. The
Dutch have won 20 percent of theirs, while  England  languishes
with a 17 percent success rate. The Germans are 2-0 against the
English in shootouts.  Still, the most recent result suggests the aura of
invincibility may be slipping. Bayern Munich midfielder  Bastian Schweinsteiger , who sat beside Loew at yesterday’s news
conference, missed in a shootout in his home stadium to give
Chelsea victory in last month’s  Champions League  final.  With players including Johan Cruijff, Johnny Rep, Johan Neeskens and Ruud Krol, the Netherlands, with its brand of
“total football,” was favored to beat host West Germany in the
1974 World Cup final in Munich.  Breitner’s Penalty  The Dutch took the lead from the penalty spot in the second
minute through Neeskens. The Germans had the chance to tie it
after 25 minutes when Bernd Hoelzenbein was fouled in the
penalty area.  Yet no one would volunteer to take the kick. Furious,
Breitner snatched the ball, brushed aside a protest from
teammate Wolfgang Overath and struck a low shot into the left
corner. Mueller scored the winner just before halftime.  Breitner said he has no memory of the event. He said he
went into a cold sweat and started screaming at his wife in the
kitchen after watching a re-run of the game on television the
morning after the final.  “I have no idea what happens in this two minutes,” he
said. “If I had started thinking about my responsibility, the
80,000 people in the stadium and the 1.5 billion people at the
TVs worldwide I would’ve turned crazy and I’m sure I would have
missed this penalty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  at the Metalist Stadium via the London newsroom +44-
   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 