-- Gillard Signals Business Tax-Cut Support After Corporate Outcry
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-06-12T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/gillard-signals-business-tax-cut-support-after-corporate-outcry.html
Australia ’s Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  signaled she still supports cutting the corporate  tax
rate , weeks after her government drew criticism from business
groups for scrapping the proposal.  “I’ve got no doubt the company tax rate should be lower,
and no doubt the revenue base has to be maintained as well,”
Gillard told 130 business, union and community leaders in a
speech in Brisbane yesterday. “The benefits of a lower
corporate rate would flow to workers and the wider community in
more jobs and better pay over time.”  Gillard’s Labor government is attempting to court a
business community left offside by its plan to introduce levies
on mining profits and  carbon emissions  on July 1 and a decision
last month not to reduce the 30 percent company tax rate,
instead funding payouts for low- and middle-income earners.
Business lobby groups and companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) 
have called for a simplified tax system.  The nation’s first female prime minister is trying to boost
business support for her government as she hosts a two-day
meeting with executives in the Queensland state capital. While a
resources boom has made Australia one of the fastest-growing
economies in the developed world, the government isn’t getting a
lift in opinion polls as tourism, manufacturing and retail
industries struggle with a local currency that has appreciated
74 percent against the  U.S. dollar  in the past decade.  Gillard said she will press leaders at this month’s Group
of 20 summit in  Mexico  not to focus solely on spending cuts as
 Europe  wrestles with a sovereign debt crisis.  “Austerity alone is not the right path,” Gillard said.
“That’s the case I’ll be making at the G-20. Here, we have put
growth and jobs first -- growth which in turn is the solid
foundation for fiscal discipline in the long term.”  Industry Demands  The government had proposed that proceeds from its levy on
mining profits be used to reduce the corporate tax rate to 29
percent, before axing the plan, citing a lack of support in
parliament. Liberal-National coalition leader  Tony Abbott 
opposed the plan while the Greens, which hold the balance of
power in the Senate, only supported a cut for small businesses.  “I cannot overstate how the level of uncertainty about
Australia’s tax system is generating negative investor
reaction,” Jacques Nasser, chairman of the world’s biggest
mining group, BHP, told business leaders in Sydney May 16.
“People don’t know where it’s going. In time we will need to
address the complexity of our layered tax systems and ensure
that they are competitive on a global basis.”  Mining, Carbon  Australia expects to raise A$24.7 billion ($24.4 billion)
in four years from the carbon tax, as the government seeks to
reduce emissions and spur investment in cleaner energy. The
mining tax will reap about A$6.5 billion in revenue over two
years from companies including BHP and  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) ,
government estimates show.  “We continue to call on all political parties to commit to
significant taxation reform including the ambition to reduce the
corporate tax rate to 25 percent,” Australian Industry Group
Chief Executive Officer Innes Willox said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. “Australia must cut back on the burdens
imposed on businesses.”  A Newspoll survey yesterday showed support for the ruling
 Labor Party  slid even after the central bank lowered  interest
rates  at its past two meetings, the government announced cash
handouts, the economy expanded twice as fast as forecast, and
employment growth accelerated.  Labor’s primary vote dropped 1 percentage point to 31
percent and the Liberal-National opposition fell 2 points to 44
percent, the survey published in the Australian newspaper
showed. The poll of 1,146 people was taken June 7-10 and had a
margin of error of 3 percentage points. The Greens gained 2
percentage points to 14 percent.  Borrowing Costs  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia lowered borrowing costs by 75
basis points in the past two meetings, to 3.5 percent,
benefiting households in a nation where almost 90 percent of
mortgages have variable rates.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  last week expressed optimism
about the nation’s economic outlook in a speech titled “The
Glass Half Full.” Stevens said he felt the need to do some
“cheerleading” for the economy in response to negative
commentary on the country’s prospects. The governor is due to
address the conference in Brisbane today.  Australian employers unexpectedly added workers in May, as
the number of people employed rose by 38,900, capping the best
January-to-May period of hiring in five years, a government
report showed June 7. A day earlier, data showed that compared
with a year earlier, the economy expanded 4.3 percent in the
first quarter, the fastest annual pace since of 2007.  Resource Projects  The nation’s economy is being powered by an estimated A$500
billion pipeline of resource projects that is spurring hiring by
companies including BHP.  Gillard is faced with a two-speed economy -- a phrase the
RBA uses to distinguish resource-rich regions in the north and
west that are powering growth and hiring workers, from
struggling tourism, manufacturing and retail industries across
the south and east.  “There are big challenges still before us and the job for
tonight and tomorrow is as simple as this -- to follow through
on our investments and reforms to lift productivity, to do more
to sustain and spread growth,” she said in the speech.
“Workforce is one of the real nubs of the economic discussion
in Australia. We’re doing structural adjustment at a time of
employment growth, and that’s a good thing, but it doesn’t make
the fact of a business closing its doors any easier.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in  Brisbane  at
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  