-- Glaxo to Pay at Least $226 Million for Basilea’s Toctino
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-06-12T15:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/glaxo-to-pay-at-least-226-million-for-basilea-s-toctino.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  agreed to buy
the marketing rights for  Basilea Pharmaceutica AG (BSLN) ’s hand eczema
drug Toctino for 146 million pounds ($226 million). Basilea
shares rose to the highest in almost six weeks.  Glaxo’s Stiefel unit will pay as much as 50 million pounds
more if the drug reaches certain goals, and “double-digit”
royalties on U.S. sales three years after the product’s approval
there, Basilea said in a statement late yesterday.  The deal gives Stiefel, the skin business that Glaxo bought
in 2009 for $2.9 billion, a drug that’s marketed in 14 countries
and had sales of 22 million pounds last year, Glaxo said in a
 separate  statement. Basilea, based in  Basel ,  Switzerland , will
use the cash to advance development of its experimental
antibiotics, antifungals and cancer drugs.  “On the surface, the deal with Stiefel appears
impressive,” Philippa Gardner, an analyst with Jefferies
International Ltd. in London, wrote in a note today. “However,
in return Basilea is handing over all Toctino rights with only
limited future income post-U.S. launch.” Gardner is the top-
ranked Basilea analyst in the past year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, and has a  hold  recommendation on the
stock.  Stock Jumps  Basilea  jumped  4 percent to 46 Swiss francs in Zurich, the
highest price since May 3, valuing the company at 441 million
francs ($458 million). More than 288,100 shares were traded, the
most since February 2010. Glaxo  gained  0.8 percent to 1,451.5
pence in  London .  Basilea, which won compensation from Johnson & Johnson over
trials of its ceftobiprole antibiotic, plans to apply for
regulatory approval of the product as a treatment for pneumonia
in  Europe  this year, Basilea Chief Executive Officer Anthony Man
said in the statement.  Stiefel will assume responsibility for manufacturing and
sales of Toctino, the companies said. About 90 Basilea employees
who are involved in marketing the drug will have the option of
joining Stiefel at the conclusion of the deal, Man said on a
call with reporters today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  