-- Godiva to Double Number of Stores in Chinese Market
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-06-12T12:45:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/godiva-to-double-number-of-stores-in-chinese-market-correct-.html
(Corrects type of chocolate in sixth paragraph in story
that originally ran June 11.)  Godiva , a maker of luxury Belgian
chocolate, plans to double its boutique network in  China  in 2012
as consumers there develop a taste for fine cocoa.  The 86-year-old chocolatier is set to open about 15 shops
in the country, bringing the total to about 30 in the three
years since it expanded into China, Chief Executive Officer Jim Goldman said in an interview at the  Chocovision  conference in
Davos,  Switzerland . Godiva may have 100 Chinese stores in three
to four years, he said.  “China is less than 5 percent of our revenue, but it’s the
fastest-growing piece of the puzzle,” Goldman said. “Over
time, we’ll be in the hundreds of stores in China, but we also
know that the Chinese use the Internet and the commercial aspect
of the Internet is becoming more of a factor.”  Consumers in China spent about $1.1 billion on chocolate
last year, and the market is set to have annual growth of 11
percent from 2010 to 2014, according to market researcher
Mintel. Godiva, which  Turkey ’s Yildiz Holding AS bought for $850
million, will have sites in 10 Chinese cities by the end of
2012, according to Goldman.  Godiva is expanding to deliver online orders of chocolate
and other confectionery products by van in  Shanghai , where the
company also operates a cafe that sells baked goods and wine in
addition to chocolate, according to Goldman. Unlike Western
countries where milk chocolate is more popular, Chinese
consumers are opting for dark chocolate, partly due to its
healthier image, he said.  Market Share  Mars Inc.’s Dove chocolate is the biggest brand in China
with a 43 percent share of the market in 2010, according to
 Mintel . Closely held Ferrero SpA, maker of Nutella chocolate
spread, had an 8 percent share, followed by local Chinese brand
Le Conte at 6 percent.  Chinese shoppers are buying both for their own consumption
and also for gift-giving, particularly around key holidays such
as the Chinese New Year, Goldman said. Godiva has sought to
cater to local tastes, introducing dragon-themed chocolates for
the current Chinese zodiac year and also its own twist on moon
cakes traditionally given during the  Mid-Autumn Festival .  “Godiva has always been a premium brand and it’s something
very appealing given Chinese sensibility about gift-giving and
appearance,” said  Marcia Mogelonsky , an analyst at Mintel in
 New York .  $210 Box  Godiva sells gourmet coffees, truffles and fancy chocolates
in more than 70 countries. In China, a box containing a
selection of chocolate goes for 1,350  yuan  ($210), while a 24-
piece box of  truffles  costs 660 yuan, according to the
chocolatier’s Chinese Website.  Global sales of premium chocolate are growing faster than
the total market and may be worth about $8 billion a year,
according to Mintel. Godiva’s 2012 revenue is set to rise at a
similar pace to the 15 percent achieved each of the past two
years, Goldman said.  “This year we’re on a good pace as well despite the
challenges in the world,” he said. The company’s duty-free
business is “particularly dynamic.”  Godiva gets about half of its revenue in  North America ,
with the U.S. its biggest market.  Japan  is its second-largest.  Godiva has “rather modest” exposure in western  Europe ,
where the market is difficult, he said. The company’s business
in  Belgium  and the U.K., where it gets most of its European
revenue, is doing “fine,” Goldman said.  Lady Godiva  The company, named after the legend of Lady Godiva, was set
up in 1926 in Brussels by Joseph Draps. The brand was introduced
in the U.S. in 1966, the same year  Campbell Soup Co. (CPB)  acquired a
33 percent stake. The soup maker bought Godiva outright in 1974.  Godiva’s boutique expansion in China will help it stay
ahead of competition even as more western chocolate companies
start to move into the market, he said. Most makers of mass
chocolate are selling through grocery outlets, he said.  “You don’t see a lot of boutiques,” he said. “We’re
starting to see some of the more well-known European brands with
one or two stores. We’re leading the way and just need to stay
ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva  at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  