-- Goldman Sachs Hires Schwartz Back to Run Asia Pacific
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-06-12T05:39:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/goldman-hires-mark-schwartz-as-chairman-of-asia-pacific-region.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  brought
back  Mark Schwartz  to run its Asian business from Beijing, after
an 11-year hiatus during which he ran  George Soros ’s hedge-fund
group and started an investment firm with Raj Rajaratnam.  Schwartz, 57, will also be vice chairman of the firm, New
York-based Goldman Sachs said in a statement today. He fills a
role left by J. Michael Evans, who served as chairman of the
region since 2004 and is now based in  New York  as vice chairman
and global head of growth markets.  The new Asia chief will be Goldman Sachs’s first regional
chairman to be based in Beijing, signaling the growing
importance of the world’s second-largest economy as the Wall
Street bank targets  emerging markets  to bolster revenue. Rival
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in April said Jeff Urwin, global head of
 investment banking , would move to Hong Kong and take on the
additional role of Asia CEO.  “Unquestionably, China will continue to lead global growth
in the next few years,” Cao Xuefeng, head of research at
Chengdu-based Huaxi Securities Co., said by telephone. The
nation’s economic expansion “will translate into greater
business opportunity.”  Schwartz, who had joined Goldman Sachs’s investment banking
unit in 1979, will again be on the management committee, which
he served on from 1999 until his departure from the firm in
2001. He was head of  capital markets  from 1991 to 1997, when he
moved to  Tokyo  to oversee Japan operations. He was chairman of
 Asia  from 1999 until 2001.  Important Relationships  “He played a critical role in helping to build our
businesses across Asia Pacific,” Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein said in the statement. “Those experiences and
relationships will be even more important as we focus on
continuing to help our clients and grow our franchise across the
region.”  Blankfein, who began cutting costs in 2011 as revenue
declined for the second straight year, is counting on
international expansion and a market rebound to restore profit
growth. The firm derived  $3.9 billion  of net revenue from Asia
last year, or about 13 percent of the total, down from 18
percent in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In  China , Goldman Sachs in 2004 became the first Wall
Street bank to form a local securities venture with management
control. The nation last month agreed to let foreign banks raise
their stakes in domestic securities firms to as much as 49
percent from 33 percent.  Most Dynamic  As well as stock and bond underwriting, the U.S. firm is
expanding its private-equity, asset management and institutional
brokerage businesses in China. Through its local partner,
Goldman Sachs won approval in late 2010 to offer investment
products, including to institutional investors and affluent
clients. It estimates that of all accounts opened by wealthy
people at the firm globally last year, more than a quarter were
in China.  “The Asia Pacific region continues to represent many of
the most dynamic and important economies in the world,”
Schwartz said in the statement.  Schwartz has been chairman of investment firm MissionPoint
 Capital Partners  since 2006. He was a senior adviser to Soros
Fund Management LLC from 2002 and then president and CEO from
2003 to 2004.  He started an investment firm in early 2006 with partners
including Rajaratnam and Rajat Gupta. The blended hedge fund and
private equity company called Taj Capital Partners Asia Fund LP
planned to hire a 50-person team to invest about $2 billion in
South Asia, according to an investor prospectus. By December
2006, the plans had changed, with the fund being renamed New
Silk Route and the size reduced to $1.34 billion.  Rajaratnam was convicted of  insider trading  last year and
former Goldman Sachs director Gupta is currently on trial for
leaking tips to the Galleon Group LLC co-founder.  In the new job, Schwartz will work with Masanori Mochida,
president of Goldman Sachs Japan, and David Ryan, president of
Asia Pacific ex-Japan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  