-- Google Faces New Street View Probe by U.K. Privacy Regulator
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-06-12T17:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/google-faces-street-view-investigation-by-u-k-privacy-regulator.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  faces a renewed probe
from the U.K. privacy regulator over how its Street View service
gathered personal data, according to a letter sent by the U.K.
Information Commissioner’s Office to the company.  The agency re-opened the investigation after Google’s
comments in an earlier U.K. probe may have been contradicted in
a report by the  U.S. Federal Communications Commission  in April,
which said the company unlawfully intercepted and stored data
through its Street View location service.  “We were specifically told by Google that it was a simple
mistake and if the data was collected deliberately then it is
clear that this is a different situation than was reported to us
in April 2010,” the Wilmslow, England-based regulator said in a
 letter  to the company and distributed to the media. “Given the
findings of the FCC we have re-opened our investigation.”  Google was fined $25,000 by the FCC last month for impeding
its investigation into improper data gathering. In an agreement
ending the U.K. inquiry into Street View in November 2010,
 Mountain View , California-based Google agreed to further ICO
audits of its privacy practices. One was published in August
2011 and will be reviewed this year to ensure ICO
recommendations were followed.  “We’re happy to answer the ICO’s questions,” a Google
spokesman, who declined to be identified, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We have always said that the project leaders did
not want and did not use this payload data. Indeed, they never
even looked at it.”  Payload Data  For three years starting in May 2007, Google collected
content from wireless networks that it didn’t need for its
location-based services, according to the FCC. The company
gathered so-called payload data, including e-mail and text
messages, passwords, Internet-usage history and “other highly
sensitive personal information,” the FCC said.  Big Brother Watch, an Oxford, England-based privacy and
civil liberties advocacy group, said it supports the ICO’s
decision.  “The Information Commissioner’s Office is absolutely right
to re-open the investigation and must now take every step to get
to the bottom of just how many British people’s privacy was
trampled on by Google,” Nick Pickles, a director at Big Brother
Watch, said in an e-mailed statement. “It is also essential
that Google explain why the explanation it gave in 2010 and the
data prepared for the ICO deliberately concealed what had really
happened.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  