-- Google, Forest, Louboutin, Raytheon: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-06-12T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/google-forest-louboutin-raytheon-intellectual-property.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s
largest search engine, ended legal disputes with a French
publishing trade group and a French authors’ association over
the U.S. company’s scanning of books.  The Syndicat National de l’Edition, which represents more
than 600 publishers, and the SGDL Society of Authors agreed with
Google to end litigation over Google’s scanning of copyright-
protected books without permission, according to two statements
yesterday.  Google is working to improve its relationship with French
industry groups and regulators after disputes over privacy and
access to copyrighted content. It has also settled legal
disputes with the Hachette Livre unit of  Lagardere SCA (MMB) , the
country’s biggest publisher, and La Martiniere Groupe that
allowed it scan out-of-print works that are still copyrighted.  “We’ve agreed a model to get out-of-print books back into
print,” Echikson said in a telephone interview of the agreement
with SNE. While Google’s settlement with the publishers’ group
doesn’t contain any financial terms, it will separately sponsor
a school-reading program it runs, he said.  Google plans to sell some of the scanned copyrighted works
as electronic books and will share the proceeds with publishers
under individual deals where the “majority of the revenue comes
to the publisher,” said Philippe Colombet,  Google Books ’
strategic partner development manager in  France .  Colombet said in an interview that Google was “still
talking” to French publishers that last year dropped a 9.8
million-euro ($12.3 million) lawsuit against Google over book-
scanning. Editions Albin Michel SA, Editions Gallimard SA and
Flammarion made the decision in order to resume negotiations to
reach a deal on scanning copyright-protected works for Google’s
digital library.  Google will financially support the SGDL Society of
Authors’ development of a database of book authors and right-
owners to settle legal proceedings over the scanning of
copyright-protected books for its digital library, the company
and the SGDL said in a joint statement. Google declined to
disclose the financial terms of the support.  The SGDL, which represents 6,000 French and French-speaking
authors, said the agreement will reaffirm the position of
authors and help them protect their rights online, SGDL
President Jean-Claude Bologne said in the joint statement.  The search-engine owner this month lost a U.S. court bid to
dismiss claims by groups including the Author’s Guild and the
American Society of Media Photographers in two lawsuits over
electronic books.  The suits stem from Google’s plan, announced in 2004, to
digitally scan books from public and university libraries to
provide short snippets of text to people who use its Internet
search engine. It said in a February court filing that it has
scanned more than 20 million books.  Subtitle Downloading Site Shut Down, Operator Hit with Fine  A student at the Norwegian  University of Science and
Technology  was convicted of copyright infringement and fined
15,000 Norwegian kroner ($2,500) for running a website that
enabled the downloading of movie and television program
subtitles, the TorrentFreak website  reported .  The site,  Norsub.com , has now been taken down, and the
operator posed a notice saying he had always thought he was
providing a legal service, according to TorrentFreak.  TorrentFreak, which holds an anti-copyright position,
reported that this case is the first in  Norway  involving
subtitles and that the judge “had difficulty” comparing movie
piracy to the sharing of subtitles.  Although prosecutors had also sought a jail sentence for
the student, the court declined to impose a sentence,
TorrentFreak reported.  Quingdao to Become Center for International Copyright Exchange  An industrial park devoted to international copyright and
creative culture is to be built in Quingdao,  China , as a means
of facilitating copyright exchanges among China,  Japan  and  South
Korea ,  China Daily   reported .  More than 30 Quingdao animation and software companies have
agreed to participate in the trade center, which will be an
exchange for IP rights for creative works, according to China
Daily.  Categories of works to be brokered through the center
include anime games, cyber culture, media and publishing,
entertainment, arts and crafts and audio-visual works, the
newspaper reported.  An example of the kind of deal that could be facilitated
through the center was the recent licensing of a non-Chinese oil
painting to be a design element in a domestic vintner’s wine
label, China Daily Reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  Patents  Forest Reduces Forecast as Copycats Take Lexapro Pill Sales  Forest (FRX)  Laboratories Inc. cut its fiscal 2013 earnings
forecast because sales of Lexapro, a pill to treat depression,
are being lost to  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s generic
version.  Profit for the year ending in March will be 65 to 80 cents
a share, 25 cents less than previously forecast, New York-based
Forest said yesterday in a statement.  Forest lost the right to sell Lexapro exclusively after its
patent for the drug expired in September. According to the U.S.
 Food and Drug Administration , Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva
and Forest will split the market for a six-month period that
began in March, with Forest also licensing to Canonsburg,
Pennsylvania-based  Mylan Inc. (MYL)  an “authorized generic” to
compete against Forest’s and Teva’s pills. After that, more
copycat makers can start selling.  Forest said it overestimated how many pills it would sell
and how much Teva would trim prices to win a share of the
market. The company projects sales of Lexapro will fall to $215
million this fiscal year rather than to $250 million. Projected
royalty income from the authorized generic version will be $60
million, down from an expected $115 million.  Forest also said it would stop shipping Levothroid, used to
treat low levels of thyroid hormone. The company licenses the
drug from another manufacturer. The FDA notified the maker that
the agency had “regulatory and quality concerns,” leading to a
shutdown of the plant where the pills are made, Forest said.  “Pending further details Forest has discontinued shipping
Levothroid to its customers and does not know how long the
product will be unavailable,” the company said.  Should the disruption go on “for an extended period of
time” or if a recall of the medicine occurs, earnings would be
reduced by 3 cents a share, Forest said.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Inditex’s Zara Unit Turns Back Louboutin Red-Sole Challenge  Inditex SA (ITX) ’s Zara unit has defeated a trademark-
infringement claim by French luxury shoemaker Christian
Louboutin Sarl, the U.K.’s Daily Mail  reported .  A French court rejected Louboutin’s claim that the red sole
and peep toes on a pair of cut-price Zara slingback high-heeled
shoes infringed its trademarks, the Mail reported.  The court determined that consumers wouldn’t confuse the
inexpensive shoes with genuine Louboutins, according to the
newspaper.  Alexis Mourot, Louboutin’s general manager, told the Mail
that the company would continue its battle to protect its
distinctive red-sole design.  Arsenal, Manchester United Sue Chinese Trademark Authority  Premier League soccer teams  Manchester United  and Arsenal
are suing China’s trademark authority, seeking revocation of
“Arsenal” and “Manchester United” trademarks issued to
Chinese companies, the Global Times  reported .  The “Arsenal” mark was issued to a manufacturer of
eyeglasses, and the Chinese agency approved the application to
register “Manchester United” by a toymaker, the newspaper
reported.  Previously the China Trademark Board had ruled that there
was no harm done to Arsenal by permitting the eyeglasses company
to use the mark, according to the Global Times.  The football clubs will have to prove to the Chinese court
that they have registered their marks for categories of products
similar to those for which the marks are presently being used by
the Chinese companies, the newspaper reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Raytheon Accused of Misappropriating Warhead Trade Secrets  Raytheon Co. (RTN) , developer of the Tomahawk, Sidewinder and
Patriot missiles, was sued for trademark infringement by a small
closely held defense contractor.  According to the complaint filed in federal court in
Tucson,  Arizona , the Waltham, Massachusetts-based company is
accused of misappropriating proprietary information related to
the Lancer Multiple Warhead Systems designed by Ordinance
Technologies Inc.  Ordinance Technologies said in its pleadings that beginning
in the early 1990s, it had worked with Raytheon on a
multiwarhead missile program, and that this relationship was
covered by an agreement to protect the  La Jolla , California-
based company’s  trade secrets .  Concerns about Raytheon’s possible misuse of the trade
secrets first surfaced in 2005, Ordinance Technologies said,
claiming that the Massachusetts company “began generating
briefings” using the proprietary data. Ordinance Technologies
said it put Raytheon on notice in November 2005 not to disclose
the data to any other organization,.  In 2009 Ordinance Technologies learned of a project
Raytheon had entered into with the U.S. government to modify the
Tactical Tomahawk Cruise Missile “to enable it to destroy
targets in a ‘multieffects’ system,” a project the  California 
company claims uses its trade secrets.  It claims it has suffered “at least $12 million in
consequential damages and lost profits,” and asked the court
for an order barring further use of its trade secrets and to ban
Raytheon from participating in the missile modification program.  Additionally, Ordinance Technologies asked for money
damages, including extra damages to punish Raytheon for its
conduct, and for awards of attorney fees and litigation costs.  Raytheon spokesman Jonathan D. Kasle said in an e-mail
yesterday that his company doesn’t comment on pending
litigation. The company also hasn’t yet filed a response to the
complaint.  Ordinance Technologies is represented by  Molly Catherine
Machold  and  Matthew C. Elstein  of San Francisco’s Gordon & Rees
LLP.  The case is Ordinance Technologies Inc., v. Raytheon Co,
4:12-cv-00386-CKJ, U.S. District Court, District of Arizona
(Tucson).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 