-- Gorman Touts Differences From Dimon on Risk Management
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-06-12T22:46:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/gorman-touts-differences-from-dimon-on-risk-management.html
While  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  was in  Washington  preparing to
explain his firm’s $2 billion trading loss,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  CEO
 James Gorman  was in New York making the case to investors why it
couldn’t happen at his firm.  Gorman, who didn’t mention JPMorgan in his presentation
yesterday, highlighted the improvements Morgan Stanley has made
in risk-governance since the 2008 financial crisis. Investors
and analysts have voiced concerns that JPMorgan’s loss is
evidence of risky behavior at all banks, and Morgan Stanley has
been forced to address mistakes in its own recent past.  In 2007, Morgan Stanley faced a trading loss almost five
times larger than the one JPMorgan disclosed last month. Morgan
Stanley posted $9.4 billion of mortgage-related losses in the
fourth quarter of that year, driven largely by a proprietary-
trading desk led by Howard L. Hubler. The firm also racked up
almost $5 billion of losses over four years through 2011 tied to
derivatives deals with  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  and the investment bank’s
attempts to hedge its exposure to the bond insurer.  “Every day one makes a mistake of some size or other,”
Gorman said. “We simply can’t make the size mistakes we were
making that got us into the trouble in the financial crisis.”  Kristin Lemkau, a JPMorgan spokeswoman, didn’t return an e-
mailed request for comment.  Morgan Stanley has fallen 11 percent since JPMorgan
announced its loss on May 10, outpacing the 6.1 percent decline
of the 81-company Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials Index.
Analysts including Charles Peabody at Portales Partners LLC have
said JPMorgan’s loss has weakened investor confidence in banks
including New York-based Morgan Stanley.  Loss Disclosure  JPMorgan, following the loss disclosure, faced questions
about the strength of its board’s risk committee, the
consistency of pricing securities throughout the bank and
oversight of trading operations. Morgan Stanley confronted some
of the same issues during the financial crisis, and Gorman said
he included more detail about the firm’s processes in his
presentation than he typically would.  “This is what actually drives the engine, and this is what
I call Morgan Stanley growing up,” Gorman said. “You have to
revert back to systematic process if you’re going to control the
kinds of risks that are embedded in these businesses.”  JPMorgan has faced criticism over the makeup of its three-
person risk-policy committee, which doesn’t feature anyone who
has worked as a banker, regulator or had any experience on  Wall
Street  in the past 25 years.  ‘Highly Qualified’  Gorman cited the credentials of the chairman of his firm’s
risk committee,  Howard Davies , who led the U.K.’s Financial
Services Agency for six years and who Gorman described as
“very, very highly qualified.”  “Davies is intimately involved in all large risk positions
that we take, and any changes to any limits that we put in place
across the organization,” Gorman said.  Gorman also cited a program known as Frame that ensures the
firm marks all of its securities at consistent prices, even if
the same securities are held in different parts of the bank.  JPMorgan’s chief investment office was valuing some of its
trades at prices that differed from those of its investment
bank, Bloomberg News reported last month. The discrepancy
between prices used by the chief investment office and
JPMorgan’s credit-swaps dealer may have obscured by hundreds of
millions of dollars the magnitude of the loss before it was
disclosed May 10.  London Team  Dimon treated the CIO differently from other JPMorgan
departments, exempting it from the rigorous scrutiny he applied
to risk management in the investment bank, according to two
people who have worked at the highest executive levels of the
firm and have direct knowledge of the matter.  The division’s London team built up a book of  credit
derivatives  beginning in 2008 that became so large by late 2010
that employees couldn’t unwind it without roiling the markets or
incurring large losses, according to current and former
executives.  “CIO, particularly the synthetic credit portfolio, should
have gotten more scrutiny from both senior management and the
firmwide risk control function,” Dimon said in prepared
testimony for his appearance today before the Senate Banking
Committee.  Faced Doubts  Morgan Stanley has faced doubts following the JPMorgan loss
because it has the second-highest amount of notional credit
derivatives among U.S. banks, Peabody said. Morgan Stanley had
sold credit-default swaps on $2.35 trillion of debt, and
purchased protection on $2.36 trillion, the company said in its
first-quarter regulatory filing. Those amounts each included
$1.1 trillion of CDS tied to indexes and tranches of indexes.  Many of JPMorgan’s trades were in credit-default indexes
and so-called tranches of the index, which concentrates risks
tied to corporate debt.  Gorman made the case that a similar-sized position couldn’t
be built up at his firm without approval from multiple senior
executives. Morgan Stanley has what Gorman calls the
“significant transactions committee,” which approves any
commitment of more than $10 million other than liquid trading
positions.  “We get a lot of things done, a lot more than $10
million,” Gorman said. “It’s just they don’t happen by
somebody deciding in their own little group to do it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  