-- Gorman Says Three-Level Cut Would Be ‘Somewhat Stunning’
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-06-12T20:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/gorman-says-three-level-downgrade-would-be-somewhat-stunning-.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  Chief Executive
Officer  James Gorman  said a three-level credit-rating downgrade
by Moody’s Investors Service would be “somewhat stunning”
given the firm’s increased capital.  Moody’s has said it may reduce the rating on New York-based
Morgan Stanley by as much as three levels when it announces the
results of an industrywide review this month. Morgan Stanley can
manage through any potential cut, Gorman said today at an
investor conference in New York.  “If Moody’s goes to the full extent of their initial
guidance, we would find, given the numbers I just shared with
you, that a somewhat stunning outcome, given the reality of how
different the institution is from what it was,” Gorman, 53,
said. “But we’ve prepared for all outcomes.”  Gorman highlighted the increase in the firm’s capital and
liquidity since the financial crisis in his presentation to
investors. The bank’s liquidity reserve is 23 percent of total
assets, up from 11 percent at the end of 2007, while its
shareholder equity has doubled, he said.  The maximum downgrade, which would be the largest among
U.S. banks and place the firm’s rating two levels above junk,
might increase  borrowing costs  and force Morgan Stanley to post
more collateral on trades. It would also threaten a fixed-income
trading turnaround as some counterparties would no longer be
able to do derivatives deals with the firm.  Moody’s Review  “We’re not panicked over this, but we’re prepared for
it,” Gorman said. “We’ll make whatever business adjustments,
if necessary, once we get there.”  Moody’s announced the review in February and originally
slated the ratings actions for the largest banks for the middle
of May. The ratings firm later delayed the action, saying it
would make cuts by the end of June.  Morgan Stanley  has fallen  27 percent since the review was
announced on Feb. 15. The shares climbed 56 cents, or 4.2
percent, to close at $13.93 in  New York .  “It’s been a long process to be hanging out there in the
wind waiting for this,” Gorman said.  Gorman said all of the firm’s retail brokers will be on the
same technology system by July 9 as the integration of Morgan
Stanley Smith Barney is completed. The unit will eventually be
called Morgan Stanley Wealth Management, he said.  Cost Cuts  The unit’s pretax margin, which was  11 percent  in the first
quarter, will climb “absent extraordinary circumstances,”
Gorman said. Cost cuts will drive a larger part of the increase
than revenue-boosting initiatives as the bank seeks a “mid-
teens” margin by the middle of next year without help from
rising markets, according to a presentation accompanying
Gorman’s remarks.  Jim Wiggins , a spokesman for the bank,
declined to provide a more specific margin target.  The entire firm is on pace to reduce its non-compensation
expenses by $500 million this year, as it works toward its
target of a $1.4 billion reduction, Gorman said.  Morgan Stanley expects to increase the dividend and stock-
buyback program “over time” as markets “settle down,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  