-- Greek Hedge Manager Says Drachma Is Back as Wages Plunge
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2012-06-12T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/greek-hedge-manager-says-drachma-is-back-as-wages-plunge.html
Jason Manolopoulos, the hedge-fund
manager who wrote “ Greece ’s ‘Odious’ Debt,” has news for
anyone wondering whether the country will exit the euro: The
drachma has already returned.  In the run-up to national elections on June 17, New
Democracy leader Antonis Samaras has painted a bleak picture of
what will happen if Greece leaves: Incomes, bank deposits and
property would lose at least half their value within days, he
says; food prices would soar. Is that an accurate assessment?  “Greece is already going back to the drachma, partially,”
Manolopoulos says. By his estimates for the private sector,
“devaluation has happened to some extent. Wages are down
approximately 35 percent and taxes are up. So  disposable income 
is down 50 percent at least. Rents are down between 35 and 40
percent.”  Manolopoulos, who specializes in  emerging markets  at
 Dromeus Capital Group , argues in his book that Greece had no
business joining the euro. He spoke by phone from his office
overlooking green trees and a dilapidated villa in a northern
suburb of  Athens . What does he mean when he says the drachma is
back?  Manolopoulos: The private sector is already operating in
drachma territory. The  government sector  is not. If you look at
their total spending, it’s still going up. What kind of
austerity is it when your wage and pension bill is still going
up?  Power Shortages  But things are going to get much worse, especially for
people in the public sector, mainly civil servants and
pensioners. You’re also going to see petrol shortages and
electricity stoppages.  Pressley: What will the elections bring?  Manolopoulos: The pre-black-out polls suggest that Syriza
will win by a comfortable margin. So there’s a chance of party
leader Alexis Tsipras forming a government.  The card New Democracy and Pasok have been playing for two
years is, “Vote for us, or face catastrophe.” But the Greeks
are sick and tired of that card. They’re not buying it. Syriza -
- which is deft at political campaigning but unproven in
everything else -- says that the true issues of this election
are jobs and austerity.  Pressley: Meanwhile, the economic picture keeps getting
darker.  Manolopoulos: We have 25 percent unemployment here.
 Official figures  say 22 percent, but it’s probably higher. Then
you have the Greek system, which has not reformed and is not
fair.  Life Catastrophe  So the unemployed are saying, “Why do some people have a
much better standard of living and I’m here suffering and going
through garbage cans?” I’m exaggerating, but you understand my
point. They’re saying, “I might as well vote for something
different because my life is already a catastrophe.”  Pressley: If Syriza forms a government, what happens next?  Manolopoulos: The next two months will be a cat-and-mouse
game with the troika -- the European Commission, the  European
Central Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund .  The European Union will adopt a stance of, “let’s see if
Tsipras really will keep his pre-election pledges,” which in my
view he will not. He’s not a Che Guevara.  If he plays too much hardball, the EU will push for another
coalition government. If all else fails, they’ll go for a
negotiated exit of Greece in the first half of 2013. That’s the
base case anyway. Both sides understand that this thing is not
working.  Kleptocratic Greece  Pressley: Your book describes Greece as a kleptocracy. Do
you see any signs of that changing?  Manolopoulos: I saw some signs of it changing. Lots of
businessmen started being chased for not paying value-added tax.
But it became a witch hunt, and people with fewer political
connections or the wrong connections or celebrities were chased.  Unless you instill the principle of fairness, you cannot
create a proper civil society. So the best thing you can do for
yourself and your family is to play with the rules.  Let’s take an example. You and your cousin have two
souvlaki shops side by side on an island. And you pay your VAT
and social-security contributions but your cousin does not.  Because he has a 50 percent advantage, his chunks of meat
are a bit bigger, his salads are a bit bigger, and his prices
are 10 to 15 percent lower. One shop is packed with tourists,
the other is empty. Over time, you will go bankrupt and he will
thrive.  Euro Investors  Pressley: What can investors in euro countries do to
protect themselves?  Manolopoulos: They have to be overweight cash. They also
have to make their bets on how the euro will unwind.  Germany 
could leave the euro, for example. Then buying bunds at zero
percent could be a fantastic trade.  Pressley: What’s the best book you’ve read recently?  Manolopoulos: “The Power of Habit.”  Pressley: Charles Duhigg’s look at how humans form habits.  Manolopoulos: One problem with Greece is that we have
acquired some bad habits. One is not taking responsibility for
our actions and blaming other people.  “Greece’s ‘Odious’ Debt: The Looting of the Hellenic
Republic by the Euro, the Political Elite and the Investment
Community” is from  Anthem Press  (288 pages, $29.95, 16.99
pounds). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include:  Scott Reyburn  on the art market
and  Warwick Thompson  on London theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 