-- Greek Bank Deposit Outflows Said to Rise Before Elections
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s
-- 2012-06-13T08:37:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/greek-bank-deposit-outflows-said-to-have-risen-before-elections.html
Greek deposit outflows have
accelerated before this weekend’s elections, two bankers
familiar with the situation said, on concern the nation may move
closer to abandoning the euro.  Daily withdrawals have increased to the upper end of a 100
million-euro ($125 million) to 500 million-euro range this
month, one banker said, asking not to be identified because the
figures aren’t public. A second banker said the drawdown may
have exceeded 700 million euros yesterday. An official for the
 Bank of Greece (TELL) , the Athens-based central bank, declined to
comment.  Greek banks are under strain after individuals and
companies withdrew about 72 billion euros since the nation
triggered a region-wide sovereign-debt crisis in October 2009.
While lenders have access to European Central Bank funding, an
exit from the euro would cut them off. Depositors are seeking to
preserve their cash on concern Greece may adopt a new currency
that would immediately drop in value.  Outflows “could accelerate the sequence of events leading
to the emergence of a new currency,” said Thomas Costerg, an
economist at Standard Chartered Bank in  London , said by e-mail.
Still, “Greek banks can tap the abundant central bank funding,
which can offset the pressure coming from deposit flight.”  Unsustainable Pace  Deposit outflows jumped in the days following the May 6
election after parties opposing the bailout by the European
Union and the  International Monetary Fund  won most of the votes,
raising doubts about Greece’s future in the euro. They couldn’t
form a government and new elections will be held June 17.  Deposit withdrawals slowed as last month drew to a close,
 National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  Chief Executive Officer Apostolos Tamvakakis said on May 30.  At 500 million euros a day, deposit outflows would probably
exceed the previous monthly peaks since the outset of the
crisis, and wouldn’t be sustainable if they continued over
several months, according to one person.  Deposits rose in April to about 160 billion euros, the most
recent figures available from the central bank show. Outflows
reached as much as 6 billion euros in May, Athens-based
Kathimerini reported June 9, without saying where it got the
information. Withdrawals in May weren’t on track to surpass
previous monthly peaks, people familiar with the matter said on
May 23.  Alexis Tsipras, head of  Greece ’s biggest anti-bailout party
Syriza, said yesterday a rapid recapitalization of the country’s
banking system, which will give the state voting rights in the
banks, will aid in restoring normalcy to the financial system.  He said goals of his government would include getting what
Greeks have withdrawn from banks to be returned and asking for a
European-wide guarantee on deposits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Christos Ziotis in Athens at 
 cziotis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  