-- Grilli Says Italy Remains Focused as EU Works to Contain Crisis
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i
-- 2012-06-12T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/grilli-says-italy-remains-focused-as-eu-works-to-contain-crisis.html
Italy  is focused on meeting its own
commitments after  Spain  became the fourth euro-area nation to
seek a bailout with a 100 billion-euro ($124 billion) lifeline
for banks, Deputy Finance Minister  Vittorio Grilli  said.  “The situation in  Europe  is a complicated” one, Grilli
said in an interview at an event in  Rome  late yesterday. “We,
as Italy, are focusing on our own agenda and the good things
that we are doing. We have to keep focused on our own
commitments.”  Spanish borrowing costs rose to the highest in the history
of the euro yesterday, and the yield on Italian 10-year
securities jumped to the highest since January before debt sales
by today and tomorrow. Italy, bearer of the region’s second-
biggest debt load after  Greece , is unlikely to need a bailout as
its economy is in a better state than Spain’s, Fitch Ratings
Managing Director  Ed Parker  said in Oslo yesterday.  European governments “are working” to prevent the
region’s debt crisis from spreading further, Grilli said, adding
that “very important decisions have been taken.”  Grilli also rebuffed concern that investors might see Italy
as the next country in the firing line, saying that it’s only
“speculation.” Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter said
yesterday she sees no indication that Italy would request a
European Union bailout, one day after saying the country was at
risk of needing a rescue.  ‘Inappropriate’ Comments  “As I consider inappropriate the comments by the minister
on the situation of another member state, I abstain from
commenting on such remarks,” Italy’s Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
told reporters earlier in Rome yesterday, when asked to comment
on Fekter’s words.  Monti’s government raised taxes on property, gasoline and
luxury items such as yachts as part of a 20 billion-euro
austerity package passed in December. The plan was aimed at
balancing the budget in 2013, a target that was postponed by one
year in April as the economy sank deeper into its fourth
recession since 2001.  Still, Italy is on track to bring its budget deficit within
the European Union limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product
this year and the country is already running a surplus before
interest payments, meaning its debt will soon peak at about 120
percent of GDP. The  budget deficit  was 3.9 percent of GDP last
year, less than half that of Spain.  The Rome-based Treasury auctions up to 6.5 billion euros of
364-day bills today. A further test comes tomorrow when Italy
seeks to sell as much as 4.5 billion euros of longer-maturity
debt.  The fallout from Monti’s austerity measures, coupled with a
forecast of a recession in the single-currency region, will lead
the Italian  economy  to contract around 1.5 percent this year,
 Bank of Italy  Governor Ignazio Visco said May 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Rotondi in Rome  at 
 rotondi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  