-- Grilli Says Italy Remains Focused as EU Works to Tame Crisis
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i
-- 2012-06-13T09:41:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/grilli-says-italy-needs-to-remain-focused-on-commitments-1-.html
Italy  is focused on meeting its own
commitments after  Spain  became the fourth euro-area nation to
seek a bailout with a 100 billion-euro ($124 billion) lifeline
for banks, Deputy Finance Minister  Vittorio Grilli  said.  “The situation in Europe is a complicated” one, Grilli
said in an interview at an event in Rome late yesterday. “We,
as Italy, are focusing on our own agenda and the good things
that we are doing. We have to keep focused on our own
commitments.”  Spanish borrowing costs rose to the highest in the history
of the euro yesterday, and the yield on Italian 10-year
securities jumped to the highest since January before today’s
debt sale. Italy, bearer of the region’s second-biggest debt
load after  Greece , is unlikely to need a bailout as its economy
is in a better state than Spain’s, Fitch Ratings Managing
Director  Ed Parker  said in Oslo yesterday.  European governments “are working” to prevent the
region’s debt crisis from spreading further, Grilli said, adding
that “very important decisions have been taken.”  Grilli also rebuffed concern that investors might see Italy
as the next country in the firing line, saying that it’s only
“speculation.” Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter said
yesterday she sees no indication that Italy would request a
European Union bailout, one day after saying the country was at
risk of needing a rescue.  ‘Inappropriate’ Comments  “As I consider inappropriate the comments by the minister
on the situation of another member state, I abstain from
commenting on such remarks,” Italy’s Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
told reporters in Rome yesterday.  The Rome-based Treasury today sold 6.5 billion euros of
one-year bills at 3.972 percent, 1.6 percentage points more than
level at the previous auction on May 11. Investors bid for 1.73
times the amount offered, down from 1.79 times last month.  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond fell 7 basis points to
6.1 percent at 11:05 a.m. in Rome, pushing the difference with
German bunds down 15 basis points to 460. A bigger test for the
Italian Treasury comes tomorrow when it sells as much as 4.5
billion euros of longer-maturity debt.  Austerity Package  Monti’s government raised taxes on property, gasoline and
luxury items such as yachts as part of a 20 billion-euro
austerity package passed in December. The plan was aimed at
balancing the budget in 2013, a target that was postponed by one
year in April as the economy sank deeper into its fourth
recession since 2001.  Still, Italy is on track to bring its  budget deficit  within
the European Union limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product
this year and the country is already running a surplus before
interest payments, meaning its debt will soon peak at about 120
percent of GDP. The budget deficit was 3.9 percent of GDP last
year, less than half that of Spain.  The fallout from Monti’s austerity measures, coupled with a
forecast of a recession in the single-currency region, will lead
the Italian  economy  to contract around 1.5 percent this year,
 Bank of Italy  Governor Ignazio Visco said May 31.  No Bailout  Italy won’t need a bailout even in the future, Monti told
German Public Radio ARD late yesterday.  The Italian spread with German bunds will drop if the
European summit at the end of June will approve a “credible
package of reforms for growth,” the premier said in Parliament
today, adding that Italy is in a better shape now than it was a
few months ago.  Europe  and Italy are in a “particularly intense
and crucial phase,” he said.  Monti met last night with Pier Luigi Bersani and Angelino Alfano, the leaders of the  Democratic Party  and of the People of
Liberty party respectively, and with Pierferdinando Casini, head
of the Union of Centrists party, to discuss the European
economic crisis.  The prime minister outlined the need for political cohesion
amid concerns over the “emergency situation caused by the
evolution of financial markets,” according to a statement from
his office. Monti received “full support” from the three
leaders, who pledged to back the government’s reforms that are
now in parliament.  “Monti’s pleas to politicians underscore Italy risk is
political, and that financial risks are a symptom of this, not a
cause,”  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at Monument
Securities Ltd. in  London , said by e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome   at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Rotondi in Rome  at 
 rotondi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  