-- Gross Boosts Treasuries 1st Time in 4 Months as QE3 Looms
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-06-12T02:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/gross-boosts-treasuries-1st-time-in-4-months-as-qe3-looms.html
Bill Gross  at Pacific Investment
Management Co. boosted holdings of Treasuries for the first time
in four months and kept mortgages near a three-year high,
setting up the world’s biggest bond fund for potential gains
from further monetary easing by the  Federal Reserve .  Gross raised the proportion of U.S. government and Treasury
debt in the $260 billion Total Return Fund to 35 percent in May,
the first increase since January and up from 31 percent of its
record asset holdings in April,  Newport Beach , California-based
Pimco said on its  website  yesterday. Holdings of mortgages
dipped to 52 percent from 53 percent in April.  Pimco has been among investors positioning to benefit from
a third round of debt purchases by the Fed. Investors should
focus on the debt of nations such as the U.S. and  Brazil  and
avoid  Europe , Gross said this month.  “We would suggest at Pimco avoiding the entire euro zone
until they can come up with some type of solution which involves
the private sector,” Gross said in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  on June 1. “Until you
bring them back then no solution is really going to be
possible.”  The yield on the benchmark 10-year note fell to a record
low of 1.44 percent on June 1. Treasuries handed investors a 1.8
percent return in May, the most since August 2011 according to
indexes compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Mortgage
securities gained 0.3 percent, a 17th-straight month of returns.  Spain  asked for as much as 100 billion euros ($125 billion)
over the weekend to save its banking system, making it the
fourth member of the currency bloc to seek a rescue. The
nation’s bonds fell yesterday along with those of  Italy ,
Europe’s most indebted nation, which is scheduled to sell notes
this week.  Mortgage Bets  A windfall from expanded purchases by the U.S. central bank
would represent a repeat for the fund, which holds money ranging
from individuals’ retirement accounts to institutional
investments. Pimco’s Total Return Fund made home-loan bets
before the Fed acquired $1.25 trillion of mortgage bonds between
January 2009 and March 2010.  The Fed, which meets June 19-20, purchased $2.3 trillion of
debt in two rounds of quantitative easing from December 2008 to
June 2011 to boost the economy. The figure includes $1.4
trillion in mortgages and $900 billion of Treasury debt.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 7 the central bank
remains prepared to take action as needed to protect the U.S.
financial system and economy in the event that financial
stresses escalate. Bernanke told the Joint Economic Committee in
 Washington  that the Fed has the tools that would provide more
support to the economy by boosting accommodation.  Greater Odds  Economists at Morgan Stanley, Bank of America Corp. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. see greater odds for a third round of
quantitative easing, or QE3. Morgan Stanley estimates the
chances at 80 percent, up from 50 percent last month, and
expects that the Fed would expand its mortgage-bond holdings by
about $200 billion.  Mortgage holdings at the  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  reached a three-
year high in April and in May were still more than double the 25
percent of the total represented last July, according to 
Bloomberg compilations of data released on Pimco's website.  A Fed study released yesterday showed that the median net
worth of U.S. families sank 38.8 percent from 2007 to 2010 as
 house prices  plummeted. That may add to the case for the central
bank to target any new stimulus to supporting home values.  Negative Cash  Pimco raised emerging-market debt to 8 percent, from 7
percent, and investment-grade credit was unchanged at 13
percent, the smallest ratio since March 2008. High-yield credit
was 2 percent of holdings in May, the least since 2009.  Gross changed the Total Return Fund’s net cash-and-
equivalent position to negative 21 percent, from negative 18
percent. The fund can have a so-called negative position by
using derivatives, futures or by shorting.  The fund’s holdings of the bonds of non-U.S. developed
nations were unchanged at 6 percent the previous month.  The Total Return Fund gained 6 percent over the past year,
beating 76 percent of its peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The fund attracted $124 million in May, according to
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   The fifth-straight month of net deposits followed the
addition of $2.7 billion in April. Investors pulled about $3
billion from the fund in quarter ended Dec. 31, bringing
withdrawals last year to about $5 billion, said Chicago-based
Morningstar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  