-- Gupta Loses Bid on Wiretaps of Goldman’s Loeb, Rajaratnam
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-06-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/gupta-loses-bid-on-wiretaps-of-goldman-s-loeb-rajaratnam.html
Rajat Gupta , the former  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director accused of  insider trading , lost a bid
to have a jury hear wiretaps of Goldman Sachs executive  David Loeb  tipping Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam.  Gupta, who has pleaded not guilty, is on trial in federal
court in Manhattan for allegedly passing tips to Rajaratnam
about Goldman Sachs and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , where he was also
a director. U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff made the preliminary
ruling yesterday, while allowing Gupta to submit legal briefs on
why the evidence should be allowed.  Rajaratnam got some of his illegal tips from Loeb, Goldman
Sachs’s head of Asia equity sales in New York, defense attorney
 Gary Naftalis  has said in court. The lawyer has argued to the
jury that the “wrong man” is on trial.  With the defense about to rest its case,  David Frankel ,
another lawyer for Gupta, argued at a hearing yesterday after
jurors left for the day that Gupta should be allowed to play
“substantial” wiretaps made on Aug. 7 and Aug. 22 of 2008 by
the  Federal Bureau of Investigation . On the calls, Loeb is
passing material nonpublic information to Rajaratnam about  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Frankel said.  “There is substantial evidence that supports the argument
that Mr. Loeb could’ve been the source of Goldman Sachs tips,”
Frankel said in court. “The tapes tell the story that Loeb gets
the information, which is confidential to Intel, and he reaches
out to Mr. Rajaratnam.”  Preliminary Ruling  Rakoff, after issuing his preliminary ruling rejecting the
evidence, told defense lawyers that they may submit a legal
brief last night explaining why the tapes and e-mails aren’t
hearsay and should be admitted.  “This is an attempt to prove an alternative view of the
underlying facts and blatant hearsay,” Rakoff told Gupta’s
lawyers.  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to
comment on yesterday’s decision.  Gupta, who ran McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to 2003, is accused
of leaking secret tips to Rajaratnam about Goldman Sachs and
P&G. Rajaratnam was convicted of insider trading last year and
sentenced to 11 years in prison.  The tips in question involve Goldman Sachs earnings in the
first quarter of 2007 and fourth quarter of 2008. Another
involves a $5 billion  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B)  investment in
Goldman Sachs on Sept. 23, 2008. Prosecutors have said Gupta
told Rajaratnam that Cincinnati-based P&G planned to sell its
Folgers Coffee unit to J.M. Smucker Co.  Adam Smith , a Galleon trader who pleaded guilty and is
cooperating with the U.S., received some of Loeb’s tips on
Rajaratnam’s behalf, Frankel said. Loeb, who at the time was a
vice president and had Galleon as a client, stood to profit if
the fund did well, he said.  ‘You and Adam’  “Loeb says, ‘Since I’ve normally given this to Adam to
give to you, this goes to you and Adam,’” Frankel quoted from
one wiretap of a conversation between Loeb and Rajaratnam. “I
give it to a couple of guys on the street, I call you and Adam
first.”  The defense also seeks to introduce “urgent” e-mails Loeb
sent to Rajaratnam, some which involve Henry King, a Goldman
Sachs analyst in  Asia , Frankel said.  “He’s providing information to Loeb,” Frankel said. Loeb
“gets it from King who gets it from his source at Intel,” the
lawyer said.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Reed Brodsky argued that the
defense was attempting to insert Loeb into the case and that
playing the wiretaps and showing the e-mails without explanation
would confuse jurors.  Loeb’s Statements  The defense argued that the conversations and e-mails
should be introduced into evidence as Loeb’s statements against
his interests and as statements of co-conspirators in a crime.  The government hasn’t accused Loeb and King of wrongdoing.
Two people familiar with the probe said in February that both
men are the subject of a criminal investigation by U.S.
authorities in  New York .  Rakoff is also weighing whether to admit a wiretapped
conversation from Oct. 2, 2008, between Rajaratnam and a Galleon
employee in which they discuss Gupta’s $10 million loss in a
Galleon fund.  According to Naftalis, Rajaratnam says on the wiretap, “I
didn’t tell him that I took the equity out” of the fund.  Gupta’s lawyers contend that’s a reference to Rajaratnam’s
willingness to lie and create cover stories. The tape would help
the defense argue that the jury shouldn’t believe other
Rajaratnam statements that suggest Gupta was his source of
illicit information, Naftalis said.  The defense may complete its testimony today. Closing
arguments will begin tomorrow, Rakoff said.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  