-- Higher Rates of Advanced Imaging Raise Radiation Exposure
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-06-12T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/higher-rates-of-advanced-imaging-raise-radiation-exposure.html
The number of Americans undergoing
advanced imaging tests has skyrocketed, increasing their
exposure to radiation that may result in cancer later in life, a
study found.  The use of computed tomography, or CT, scans tripled
between 1996 and 2010, research today in the  Journal of the
American Medical Association showed . The number of people
receiving high to very high doses of radiation from imaging
during a given year doubled over the 15-year study.  Improvements in technology, demand by doctors and patients
for the tests, defensive medical practices and medical
uncertainty are most likely behind the increased use of advanced
imaging, the authors wrote. About 2 percent of future cancers
will result from current imaging use if the present rate
continues, they said.  “Imaging is clearly overused and we need to begin to make
more informed choices regarding when and how to image,
understanding that there are clear and definite benefits but
also harms from imaging,” said lead study author Rebecca Smith- Bindman, a professor of radiology and biomedical imaging at the
 University of California ,  San Francisco , in a June 11 e-mail.  In the study, the first major investigation into how
radiation exposure has increased within private health systems,
researchers analyzed electronic medical records of six large
integrated health-plan systems in the U.S. The health groups
included  Kaiser Permanente  in  Colorado ,  Georgia ,  Hawaii  and
 Oregon /Washington, Group Health Cooperative in Washington and
Marsfield Clinic and Security Health Plan in  Wisconsin .  Study Findings  Between 933,897 and 2 million patients were included each
year from 1996 to 2010. Over the course of the study, 30.9
million imaging tests were conducted, reflecting an average of
1.18 tests a person per year.  Researchers found that the use of CT scans rose to 149 per
1,000 patients in 2010 from 52 per 1,000 in 1996, reflecting a
7.8 percent annual growth. The use of magnetic resonance
imaging, or MRI, which doesn’t use radiation, quadrupled over
the same period to 65 per 1,000 patients from 17 per 1,000,
reflecting 10 percent annual growth.  The study also found that the percentage of patients who
received high exposure to radiation of greater than 20
millisieverts to 50 millisieverts, or very high, which is
greater than 50 millisieverts, during a given year doubled. The
general population is exposed to about 6.2 millisieverts of
radiation each year, half from natural sources such as the sun
and the rest from encounters such as medical imaging, according
to the  U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission . The commission limits
adults working with radioactive material to exposure of 50
millisieverts a year.  Radiation Dose  By 2010, 6.8 percent of patients who had an imaging test
received a high dose of radiation and 3.9 percent received a
very high dose during a single year, twice as much as 15 years
earlier, Smith-Bindman said.  “Patients are getting imaged more and imaged with higher
dose studies,” she said.  That trend may be changing, according to Brian Connell,
director of government relations for the Medical Imaging and
Technology Alliance in  Washington . For Medicare beneficiaries
the use of advanced imaging declined 3 percent between 2009 and
2010, the first years to show a drop in utilization, he said.  “We’ve seen the same trend in the private market,”
Connell said in a telephone interview today. “It’s important
for every patient to discuss the benefits and risks with their
doctor so folks get the imaging that they need.”  Medical Need  Paul Ellenbogen , chairman of the American College of
Radiology Board of Chancellors, said in a statement that the
group advises clinicians to prescribe advanced imaging only to
those with a clear medical need. Those receiving the highest
doses of radiation are most likely cancer patients or those with
chronic conditions who required multiple scans, he said.  “We need to continue to educate providers to more
appropriately use these lifesaving tools, not look backward and
set arbitrary limits for care,” he said. “Imaging is the
future of medicine. We need to embrace, refine and promote these
advances for the good of all of those needing care.”  A new law in  California , which goes into effect in July,
requires the radiation dose patients receive from tests be put
into their  medical records  so their exposure is tracked, Smith-
Bindman said. The law may help reduce and standardize the dose
used in advanced imaging so people are exposed to the lowest
amount of radiation, she said.  George O’Connor , a professor of medicine at the  Boston 
University School of Medicine and a contributing editor for the
Journal of the  American Medical Association , and Hiroto Hatabu,
an associate professor of radiology at Brigham and Women’s
Hospital in Boston, wrote in an accompanying editorial that
doctors need to consider the radiation risks when ordering tests
for their patients. When doing so, they should take into account
how much  radiation exposure  the patient has had in recent months
or years.  “The radiation risks and financial costs of advanced
diagnostic imaging clearly warrant more research,” they wrote.  The  National Cancer Institute  funded the study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  