-- IMF Says Yen Is Overvalued and BOJ Should Add Stimulus: Economy
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-06-12T05:28:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/imf-says-yen-is-overvalued-and-boj-should-add-stimulus-economy.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
 Japan ’s currency is overvalued and the central bank should
consider further monetary stimulus, including longer-dated
government bonds and private securities.  “The exchange rate has appreciated over the past year
partly because of safe-haven capital inflows, and our analysis
suggests that the yen is moderately overvalued from a medium-
term perspective,” the IMF said in a report on Japan’s economy
released today. Intervention can be used to counter volatile
currency movements,  David Lipton , the IMF’s first deputy
managing director, told reporters in Tokyo.  Investor concern about Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis has
fueled a 5 percent gain in the yen against the dollar since mid-
March, threatening the profits of the nation’s exporters. The
 Bank of Japan  could increase its asset purchases to help the
nation overcome more than a decade of deflation, the Washington-
based fund said.  “The asset-purchase program could be expanded
substantially beyond current plans to increase the likelihood of
achieving the 1 percent inflation goal by end 2014,” the IMF
said, referring to the BOJ’s price target. “Given the
importance of expectations in the current low-interest rate
environment, an upfront announcement of such easing could also
raise inflation expectations.”  The yen fell to 79.54 per dollar as of 1:48 p.m. in Tokyo,
reversing earlier gains after the IMF’s comments. The Nikkei 225
Stock Average slid 0.9 percent as surging Spanish bond yields
stoked concern that a bailout of the nation’s banks won’t tame
the European debt crisis.  An intensification of the flight to safety in financial
markets could lead to  exchange-rate  volatility, further
strengthen the yen and depress equity prices and also business
and  consumer confidence , the IMF said.  Volatile Flows  “We see in the world volatile capital flows, where risk
aversion and risk taking can create volatility,” said Lipton.
“And certainly in that setting intervention can be used to
avoid disorderly markets -- but that should be in the context of
an exchange-rate system that remains market determined.”  Japanese lawmakers are increasing pressure on central bank
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa to ease monetary policy to support
the economy even after the BOJ bolstered the size of its 40
trillion yen ($503 billion) asset-buying fund, its main policy
tool, twice this year. Taking into account BOJ easing to date,
the IMF said the BOJ’s price goal won’t be reached until 2017.  Government Nominees  Japan’s government nominated two economists for the central
bank policy board who previously signaled support for stimulus,
underscoring forecasts for policy makers to expand asset
purchases. Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s administration
yesterday nominated  Takahide Kiuchi  of Nomura Securities Co. and
Takehiro Sato of Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co., pending
confirmation by the Diet.  The nominees would join a central bank that’s boosted its
asset fund by 20 trillion yen this year yet been faulted by
lawmakers for failing to do enough to end deflation and stoke
growth. Sato said in an interview last month the BOJ’s inflation
forecast for next year was “wishful thinking,” and Kiuchi said
the bank may need to cut growth and price forecasts. The BOJ
board is concluding its next board meeting on June 15.  Slower Growth  Economic growth may slow by more than half from the first
quarter, when gross domestic product rose 4.7 percent from the
previous three months at an annualized pace. Bloomberg News
surveys of economists estimate GDP will grow 2 percent this
quarter and 1.6 percent in the final three months of 2012.  Japan’s central bank forecast consumer prices will rise 0.7
percent in the year starting in April 2013 and it expects
inflation will reach its goal of 1 percent before “too long,”
according to its outlook report on April 27.  The IMF also said extending the maturity of  government
bonds  the central bank buys beyond three years could help lower
medium-term  interest rates . Purchases of assets including
corporate bonds, equities and highly-rated securitized loans of
small and medium-sized enterprises could stimulate activity by
boosting asset prices, the fund said.  Regarding fiscal policy, the fund said Japan could increase
the  consumption tax  to at least 15 percent, more than Noda’s
goal to double the 5 percent levy by 2015.  Elsewhere in  Asia ,  India  may say industrial production
rebounded in April, while  Bank Indonesia  is forecast to keep
interest rates unchanged for a fourth meeting, according to
Bloomberg News surveys.  The U.K. may report manufacturing output fell in April from
the previous month, while overall industrial output climbed 0.1
percent in the same period, Bloomberg surveys showed.  In the U.S., confidence among small businesses probably
fell in May from a month earlier, a Bloomberg survey showed
ahead of a report by the National Federation of  Independent
Business  today. The Labor Department may say import prices fell
in May from April, a separate survey showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in  Tokyo  at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  