-- India Factory Output Missing Estimates Adds to Rate-Cut Case
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-06-12T06:54:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/india-s-industrial-production-rose-less-than-estimated-in-april.html
Indian industrial production rose
less than estimated in April, adding to the case for an
interest-rate cut to bolster a weakening economy.  Production at factories, utilities and mines increased 0.1
percent from a year earlier, after a revised 3.2 percent drop in
March, the  Central Statistical Office  said in a statement in  New
Delhi  today. The median of 37 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 1.7 percent climb.  The  Reserve Bank of India  announces its rate decision on
June 18, with pressure building on Governor Duvvuri Subbarao to
lower borrowing costs for the second time in 2012 even as
inflation exceeds 7 percent. Asia’s third-largest economy grew
at the slowest pace in almost a decade last quarter, hurt by a
stumbling global recovery and political gridlock that has
deterred investment.  “It’s a very anemic number and there are not too many
reasons to be optimistic about a quick rebound any time soon,”
said  Anubhuti Sahay , a Mumbai-based economist at Standard
Chartered Plc. The central bank is facing a “difficult
situation” and will probably reduce its repurchase rate to 7.75
percent from 8 percent next week.  The rupee has slumped about 20 percent against the dollar
in the past year, in part because  Europe ’s debt crisis has
sapped demand for emerging-market assets. The currency fell 0.5
percent to 56.0238 per dollar as of 12:03 p.m. local time, while
the BSE India Sensitive Index rose 0.1 percent. The yield on the
8.79 percent bond due November 2021 declined three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 8.30 percent.  S&P Warning  India may become the first nation in the so-called BRIC
group of biggest  emerging markets  to lose its investment-grade
 credit rating ,  Standard & Poor’s  said yesterday, citing slowing
economic expansion and roadblocks to economic policy making.
Brazil, Russia and  China  are the other BRIC countries.  Indian  gross domestic product  rose 5.3 percent last quarter
from a year earlier, the weakest pace since 2003. Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh ’s government also faces a trade deficit that
reached a record $184.9 billion in the year ended March, the
widest BRIC budget shortfall and the group’s fastest inflation.  Singh’s efforts to liberalize the economy have met with
opposition from within the ruling coalition. The Cabinet last
week deferred making a decision on whether to allow foreign
direct investment in the pension fund industry.  India  has also
foregone potential investment from overseas insurers and
retailers such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. in recent months.  Interest-Rate Decision  Mining fell 3.1 percent in April from a year earlier after
a 1.3 percent drop in March, today’s data showed. Manufacturing
grew 0.1 percent, compared with a decline of 4 percent in the
previous month. Electricity output rose 4.6 percent.  Subbarao will reduce the  repurchase rate  to 7.75 percent
next week, according to 11 of 15 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. Two expect a half-point cut to 7.5 percent and the rest
no change. Inflation climbed to a five-month high of 7.5 percent
in May, the median estimate in another Bloomberg survey shows.  Some companies have felt the impact of slower growth and
inflationary pressures. Car sales fell in May at Maruti Suzuki
India Ltd., and the Indian units of Ford Motor Co. and General
Motors Co., after an increase in gasoline prices.  The  Reserve Bank  lowered its benchmark rate to 8 percent
from 8.5 percent on April 17, the first cut since 2009, after
raising it by a record 3.75 percentage points from mid-March
2010 to October last year to try and contain inflation.  On June 6, Singh vowed to revitalize growth as he outlined
projects including new ports, roads and power plants and urged
officials to bridge differences impeding progress.  “It’s good that the government has announced some measures
but they may not be sufficient,” said N. R. Bhanumurthy, a New
Delhi-based economist at the National Institute for Public
Finance and Policy. “What are needed are big economic reforms.
 Interest rates  alone won’t help.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net . 