-- Indian Stock Futures Decline on Europe, Rating Concerns
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-06-12T04:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/indian-stock-futures-decline-on-europe-rating-concerns.html
Indian stocks dropped for a second
day as concerns grew that a bailout of Spanish banks will fail
to tame Europe’s debt crisis, and after  Standard & Poor’s  said
India may lose its investment-grade  credit rating .  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO) , the nation’s third-biggest software exporter
that gets more than 75 percent of its sales from overseas, fell
to a three-week low.  State Bank of India , the largest lender,
retreated for the second day. The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or
Sensex, lost 0.2 percent to 16,637.44 at 9:49 a.m. in Mumbai.  Indian stocks ended a five-day winning run yesterday after
S&P said slowing growth and political roadblocks to economic
policymaking could “hurt its long-term growth prospects and,
therefore, its  credit quality .” Asian shares declined today as
Spanish and Italian bond yields surged amid skepticism Spain’s
100 billion euro ($125 billion) bailout will halt the debt
crisis in the European Union,  India ’s largest trading partner.  “We’re confident India will not default as a country, but
if the euro zone crisis deepens then it could increase the risk
of defaults of Indian companies and that may trigger a possible
downgrade,” said Arun Khurana, a Mumbai-based  fund manager  at
UTI Asset Management Co., which manages $10.6 billion in assets.  India could become the first nation in a group that also
includes Brazil, Russia and China to lose its investment-grade
rating, S&P said. The agency pared India’s outlook to negative
from stable in April, dealing a blow to Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s development agenda that has been hobbled by a discord
among the ruling coalition. Economic expansion in the first
quarter was the slowest in nine years.  The government releases data on industrial output today,
and on inflation later this week. Factory production probably
expanded 1.7 percent in April, according to the median estimate
of 31 economists in a Bloomberg survey. That compares with a 3.5
percent contraction in March.  Inflation may have accelerated for a second month to 7.5
percent in May, from 7.23 percent in April, according to the
median estimate of 31 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The data
will be published on June 14.  Overseas  investors  were net buyers of local shares on June
8, purchasing a net  $50.6 million  of stocks, data from the
market regulator show. Foreigners cut holdings by $273 million
in May, a second month of net sales. Still, foreigners have
invested $8.5 billion in local stocks this year, a record for
the period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  