-- India Banks Face Solar Setback as Projects Delayed, Fined
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-06-12T09:44:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/india-banks-face-solar-setback-as-projects-delayed-fined.html
Banks may restrict loans to Indian
solar projects after the government fined 13 projects for
delays, including one owned by  Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL)   An inquiry found 13 of 20 projects in northwestern
Rajasthan state missed their deadline, according to a  list  from
the Ministry of New and  Renewable Energy .  “All delayed projects were fined,” Tarun Kapoor, the
ministry’s joint secretary, said by phone. Indian Oil didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The delays and penalties are a setback for lenders and may
make it more difficult and costly especially for inexperienced
solar companies to raise finance, said  Bharat Bhushan , a New
Delhi-based analyst for Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  A shortfall in commercial project finance could stall the
solar industry in India, one of the biggest growth markets,
according to SBI Capital Markets Ltd. India will need at least
$3.2 billion of debt finance in the next three years to complete
already-announced solar projects, according to the  Asian
Development Bank .  The 13 delayed projects face a total penalty of about 446
million rupees ($8 million), Bhushan calculated. Companies
posted bank guarantees when they won contracts in 2010 that are
forfeited in installments during the first three months of
delays. Next, a daily fine of 100,000 rupees is levied for
another three months. After that, the project is canceled and
the company loses its contract, according to program rules.  Four companies lost their entire deposit and are being
fined daily, Kapoor said without naming them. Four more
companies have gone to court to protest the fines, according to
the list.  Rajasthan state suspended officials who earlier issued
false completion certificates to delayed projects, Kapoor said.  The projects are among the first awarded in  India  in a 2010
national auction. Of the 140 megawatts of photovoltaic plants
due to be completed by now, 15 megawatts or three projects are
still pending, Kapoor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  