-- India’s Biggest LNG Buyer Seeks $1 Billion in Debt to Expand
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 2012-06-12T10:53:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/india-s-biggest-lng-buyer-seeks-1-billion-in-debt-to-expand.html
Petronet LNG Ltd. (PLNG) ,  India ’s biggest
buyer of liquefied natural gas, plans to raise about $1 billion
in debt this year to expand its import capacity.  About $600 million will be used to build a new terminal on
the east coast and $400 million to expand an existing facility
on the west coast, Finance Director R.K. Garg said today in a
telephone interview. He didn’t disclose whether the funds would
be raised through loans or bonds.  Petronet,  GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL) ,  Korea Gas Corp. (036460)  and  Mitsubishi
Corp. (8058)  are among Asian companies seeking new sources of LNG at a
time when projects in  Australia , the U.S. and  Canada  need
funding. The two Indian companies and  Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL)  are
planning to build additional capacity to reconvert the fuel to
gas from liquid as supply fades from the biggest domestic
deposit, operated by Reliance Industries Ltd.  “The key will be the price at which Petronet is able to
source the gas,” said Gagan Dixit, an analyst with Quant
Broking Pvt. in Mumbai, who has a ‘buy’ recommendation for the
stock. “Indian gas users are very sensitive to high prices and
currently spot prices are pretty high.”  Japan, the world’s biggest LNG importer, paid more than $17
per million British thermal units in April, according to
Ministry of Finance data. Natural gas in New York has declined
27 percent this year and traded 1.6 percent lower at $2.2 per
million Btu as of 11:27 a.m. London time. Reliance Industries
sells gas from India’s biggest deposit at $4.2 per million Btu.  Supply, Demand  “Supply of natural gas in India is far short of demand and
it gives us a chance to benefit from that,” Garg said. “It
isn’t likely that domestic supply of gas will be enough and
increasing LNG imports is a way out.”  Petronet fell 1 percent to 132.90 rupees in Mumbai trading.
The shares of the New Delhi-based company have declined 15
percent this year, compared with a 9 percent increase in the
benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   Building a terminal at Gangavaram port in Andhra Pradesh
state on the east coast will cost about $900 million, Garg said.
The terminal will be capable of converting 5 million metric ton
of LNG into gas annually and plant is slated to start by 2016,
the company said May 2.  Expanding the Dahej facility in the western state of
Gujarat to 15 million tons from 10 million tons will require
about $600 million and start by the end of 2015, Garg said.
These projects are typically 70 percent funded by debt.  Petronet plans to start another 5 million tons-a-year
import plant at Kochi in south India at the end of this year,
Garg said. Petronet will operate this plant with LNG bought from
the  spot market  and under short-term contracts. It will also
source 1.5 million tons of the fuel from  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s Gorgon
project in Australia from end-2013, he said.  Australia, Russia  Petronet is in talks with LNG suppliers in countries
including Australia, Russia, the U.S. and Canada for long-term
contracts, Garg said. The company is looking for a mix of more-
expensive oil-linked contracts and cheaper gas-indexed supplies,
he said.  “Besides the traditional suppliers in the  Middle East ,
many more suppliers will come into the market soon,” Garg said.
“We have the advantage of already operating in India and that
stands us in good stead.”  A glut of natural gas production from shale rocks in the
U.S. has turned that country into an exporter. About $180
billion of export projects are being constructed in Australia
and enough of the fuel has been discovered in East Africa to
justify exports to  Asia .  Indian companies borrowed $3.5 billion in overseas loans
this year, 62 percent lower than in the same period the previous
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Indian  gross
domestic product  expanded 5.3 percent last quarter from a year
earlier, the weakest pace since 2003.  The rupee’s 20 percent fall against the dollar in the past
year makes it costlier for Indian companies to service overseas
debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  