-- India to Seek 15% of $50 Billion for Renewables From Overseas
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-06-12T17:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/india-to-seek-15-of-50-billion-for-renewables-from-overseas.html
India  may seek at least $7.5 billion
of the $50 billion it’s planning to invest in clean energy in
five years from foreign direct investment, a government official
said.  “We’d like a bare minimum of 15 percent of that coming as
FDI over the next five years,” Gireesh Pradhan, secretary at
the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, said today in an
interview in London.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  plans to spend more than $300
billion in the five years to March 2017 to expand India’s
electricity systems in an attempt to spur 9 percent economic
growth by then. An increasing share of that may be allocated to
renewable projects as lenders shun new conventional power
projects that face rising fuel costs.  India would like to “get the maximum that one can get”
from overseas investors, Farooq Abdullah, minister for new and
 renewable energy , said in the same interview. He said he was
assuring investors of concerns about whether policies and tax
structures for renewable energy projects will remain.  “We feel that renewable energy is the future, not only of
India but also the world,” Abdullah said. “Fossil fuels are
gradually disappearing and the environmental damage that has
been done by them has been of an immense nature.”  Vineet Mittal, managing director of Welspun Energy Ltd.,
India’s largest solar photovoltaic developer, is planning to add
1 gigawatt of wind and 750 megawatts of solar over the next
three to four years, he said in an interview in London.  India outpaced the rest of the world in investment in clean
energy in 2011 due to improving cost competitiveness of wind and
solar projects, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.
India’s clean energy investments were $10.3 billion last year
compared with $6.8 billion invested in 2010, the highest growth
figure of any significant world economy, according to the
London-based industry analyst.  “Serious players are coming in and looking at renewables
in a serious way,” Pradhan said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in  London  at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  