-- ING to Pay $619 Million to Settle U.S. Sanctions Probe
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-06-12T21:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/ing-to-pay-619-million-to-settle-cuba-iran-sanctions-probe-1-.html
ING Groep NV (INGA)  agreed to pay
$619 million to settle U.S. charges it falsified financial
records to bypass sanctions on countries including Cuba and
Iran, the largest such penalty against a bank.  ING Bank, a unit of Amsterdam-based ING Groep, admitted it
moved billions of dollars through the financial system on behalf
of Cuban and Iranian clients, violating U.S. sanctions by
concealing the nature of the transactions and deceiving U.S.
banks into processing illegal wire payments,  Manhattan  District
Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. and the  U.S. Department of Justice  said
in a statement.  The penalty is the largest against a bank in connection
with U.S. sanctions violations, surpassing the $536 million paid
by Zurich-based  Credit Suisse AG (CSGN)  in 2009 to settle similar
violations, U.S. and New York officials said.  The ING agreement is part of a four-year investigation of
“stripping,” in which codes indicating the source of wire
transfers are removed. Vance said his office has secured
$1.8 billion in settlements since 2009. London-based  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  paid $350 million and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  paid $298
million in agreements reached earlier in the probe into 10 banks
that was begun by former District Attorney Robert Morgenthau.  ‘Strong Message’  “These cases give teeth to sanctions enforcement, send a
strong message about the need for transparency in international
banking, and ultimately contribute to the fight against money
laundering and terror financing,” Vance said.  ING Bank moved more than $2 billion illegally through the
U.S. financial system from the early 1990s to 2007 via more than
20,000 transactions on behalf of Cuba and Iran, according to
court documents.  Half of the $619 million settlement will be distributed by
the Manhattan District Attorney’s office to the city and the
state, and the other half will be paid to the U.S., Vance said
in the statement.  ING cooperated with the two-year probe into its conduct,
conducted an internal investigation, accepted responsibility for
its conduct and voluntarily took remedial actions before
entering into deferred prosecution agreements, Vance said.  ‘Decisive Actions’  “The violations that took place until 2007 are serious and
unacceptable,” Jan Hommen, chief executive officer of ING
Groep, said in a statement. “Since starting the investigations
in 2006, ING Bank has taken decisive actions to strengthen
compliance throughout the organisation and heighten employee
awareness of compliance risks.”  The U.S. government restricts certain countries including
 Iran ,  Sudan  and Cuba from using the U.S. banking system. The
U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets
administers sanctions, and banks in Manhattan, which process
most of the world’s payments of U.S. dollars, use special
filters to prevent sanctioned countries, as well as terrorists
and other criminals, from using the banks.  ING processed payments on behalf of sanctioned customers
without referring to their origin, eliminated data that would
have revealed the involvement of those entities and advised
clients on how to conceal their involvement in such transactions
to evade filters, Vance’s office said.  Havana Office  ING was the first bank to establish an office in Cuba since
the country’s 1959 revolution, and the government in 1994 issued
a license allowing it to participate in Netherlands Caribbean
Bank, a joint venture between ING and Acemex, a shipping company
owned by Cuba, according to a copy of the deferred prosecution
agreement provided by Vance’s office. Cuba also allowed ING to
open its own office in  Havana  in 1994.  ING’s Curacao office processed U.S. dollar payments for the
Netherlands Caribbean Bank, ING’s Havana office, and a third
Cuban bank without making reference to their Cuban origins,
according to the agreement.  Bank managers ordered workers to omit the words “Cuba” or
“Havana” from payment messages, and made it clear that
employees who revealed the involvement of Cuban parties would be
subject to reprimand and possible termination, according to the
agreement.  The bank’s Trade and Commodity Finance Department in
Rotterdam also helped two sanctioned companies that are
majority-owned by the Cuban government conduct transactions
through the U.S. financial system, according to the agreement.  Oil Purchases  ING offices in the Netherlands and  Belgium  also provided
services to sanctioned entities and customers that did business
with them, including trade services relating to the procurement
of aircraft parts for a Dutch customer’s Iranian clients,
according to the agreement.  ING Bank’s Belgium office held a U.S. dollar account for
the  Central Bank  of Iran, also known as Bank Markazi. The
account was used to receive proceeds of oil purchases by
customers from Iran’s national oil company using cover payments
that didn’t mention Iranian names, according to the agreement.  ING’s offices in  France  and  Romania  also processed U.S.
dollar transactions for banks in Cuba and Iran, including a
$1.6 million letter of credit issued by Bank Tejarat of Iran to
finance Iran Air’s purchase of an aircraft engine made in the
U.S. from a Romanian trading company, according to the
agreement.  Vance said in a speech on  money laundering  in  Washington  in
November that more announcements on settlements would come. He
said today that his office’s “work in this area is active and
will continue.”  ‘Rogue Nations’  “The foreign banks that were processing these payments for
customers in Iran, Sudan,  Libya  and other rogue nations violated
the law, and undermined international security, by enabling
their U.S. correspondents to process wire payments that
otherwise would have been rejected,” Vance said at the time,
according to a transcript of his speech. “They did so
systematically, intentionally and as part of their daily
business.”  Vance also said in the speech that his office’s probe of
Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping Lines found that some U.S.
banks had been deceived into executing transactions on behalf of
Iranian entities seeking to advance that nation’s nuclear
ambitions. The shipping line was charged in June with a scheme
to move more than $60 million through at least seven U.S. banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  