-- Insurers Moves Show No Turning Back on U.S. Health Law
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-06-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/insurers-moves-show-no-turning-back-on-u-s-health-law.html
Three of the top five U.S. health
insurers sent a signal that many of the changes wrought by the
2010 health-care overhaul are here to stay, even if the Supreme
Court decides the law itself must go.  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) ,  Aetna Inc. (AET)  and  Humana Inc. (HUM)  said
this week they would save some of the law’s most popular
provisions, including letting young adults stay on parents’
plans. Employers seeking to contain the cost of care will also
press to keep other provisions, said Mike Tuffin, who
represented insurers as executive vice president at America’s
Health Insurance Plans while the law was being negotiated.  “One way or another, some of these pieces will either be
re-instituted or remain in effect through the actions of the
private marketplace,” Tuffin said in a telephone interview.  Insurers and regulators have begun implementing the law
that will produce the biggest changes in health care since the
advent of Medicare and Medicaid in the 1960s. Some provisions
may be nullified when the  Supreme Court  rules this month on
whether the law’s requirement that most Americans carry
insurance is constitutional. UnitedHealth, Humana and Aetna were
applauded by the head of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation for
refusing to “be held hostage by the political and judicial
process.”  “I would hope that the others would follow suit,” Risa Lavizzo-Mourey, president and chief executive officer of the
Princeton, New Jersey-based research and advocacy group, said in
a telephone interview. The provisions the insurers plan to
retain will expand coverage and “pay off in the long run.”  Lifetime Benefits  At stake is a law that would expand insurance to at least
30 million people and transform an industry that accounts for 18
percent of the  U.S. economy . A ruling striking down all or part
of the law may come on a 5-4 vote, with the Republican-appointed
Supreme Court justices in the majority and the Democratic
appointees in dissent. Republicans, including presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney , have called for a repeal.  UnitedHealth, Aetna and Humana said in separate statements
that they would keep simplified, independent reviews of appeals
of coverage denials regardless of the court’s decision.
Minnetonka, Minnesota-based UnitedHealth and Louisville,
Kentucky-based Humana said they would also end rescissions, or
retroactive terminations of policies, except in cases of fraud,
and eliminate dollar limits on lifetime benefits in their plans.
The three companies have a total of at least 48 million
 customers  on their commercial health plans.  The companies “want to send a strong message to their
customers that their coverage, the benefits their customers have
today, will remain in effect regardless of how the court
rules,” said Tuffin, who is now managing director of the
Washington office for  APCO Worldwide , a consulting firm.  Young Adults  The part of the law that lets people stay on their parents’
insurance until age 26, one of the first provisions enacted, led
6.6 million young adults to join those plans in 2011, according
to the  Commonwealth Fund , a New York-based nonprofit that
conducted the survey and supports expanded coverage.  The insurers won’t be obligated to stick by their pledges
if the law is rejected, and large employers who insure
themselves and only hire companies such as UnitedHealth to
administer benefits for their workers could refuse to pay for
the extra benefits.  “We can’t make anyone buy anything,” said Matt Stearns, a
spokesman for UnitedHealth, in an e-mail. He said the company
isn’t able to say how much the provisions may add to premiums.  Clearest Evidence  The statements by the insurers are the clearest evidence
that measures of the law that have already been implemented may
outlive the statute itself, said David Cutler, an economics
professor at  Harvard University  who helped policy makers draw up
the Massachusetts health-care law that formed the basis for
President  Barack Obama ’s national policy.  “You can take away the law, but you can’t take away what’s
gone on since,” Cutler, who advised Obama’s presidential
campaign in 2008, said in an interview in  Washington . “The idea
that you’re going to wipe away Obamacare is both not practical
and not even what anyone wants to do.”  Humana, which has 5.9 million customers in its commercial
health plans, said in a statement yesterday that its customers
“should have the peace of mind of knowing the company embraces
and will maintain these common-sense provisions that add
stability and security to health coverage.”  Future Decisions  The Blue Cross Blue Shield Association, whose 38 local
member companies insure about 100 million people, will encourage
the plans “to offer their customers the broadest set of
protections possible at an affordable price,” said Kelly
Miller, a spokeswoman.  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the second-largest insurer by market value
and owner of Blue Cross Blue Shield plans in 14 states, will
announce specific coverage plans after the court ruling, said
Kristin Binns, a spokeswoman for the Indianapolis-based company.  Cigna Corp. (CI) , the fourth-largest U.S. insurer, said in an e-
mailed statement it would wait until after the court rules to
announce its plans. The Bloomfield, Connecticut-based company
said it’s “prepared to proceed as appropriate on behalf of our
customers when the court deliberations reach their conclusion.”  The ruling will mark the first time the high court has
ruled on a president’s signature legislative achievement in the
middle of his re-election bid.  Obama’s almost $1 trillion, 10-year plan to overhaul the
health system passed Congress without a single Republican vote.
Parts of the law expanding insurance coverage were challenged as
unconstitutional by 26 states, and the Republican-led  House of
Representatives  has voted at least 29 times to repeal all or
part of the law or reduce its funding.  Republican Lawmaker  The head of a caucus of 21 Republican lawmakers with
medical backgrounds said last week that no matter the outcome of
the court case, he will try to preserve coverage for young
adults and for people with pre-existing medical conditions.
Representative Phil Gingrey, an obstetrician-gynecologist from
 Georgia  who is co-chairman of the group, said the young-adult
provision is “a good policy.”  Insurers aren’t promising to continue a provision of the
law that requires them to cover children with pre-existing
illnesses and said nothing about covering sick adults, required
beginning in 2014. Those policies, called “guaranteed issue,”
can’t be preserved unless the Supreme Court retains the
requirement that Americans carry insurance, or Congress replaces
it with some other measure compelling coverage, said  Karen Ignagni , president and CEO of America’s Health Insurance Plans,
the industry’s primary lobbying group in Washington.  Medicare Experiment  In addition to the insurance mandate, the law authorized
Medicare to experiment with new ways to pay hospitals and
doctors that would encourage higher quality, more efficient
care. One program, called accountable-care organizations or
ACOs, awards hospitals and physician groups a share of any
savings they can produce by streamlining care and reducing
unnecessary or wasteful services.  Striking down the law and eliminating Medicare’s
experiments in payment changes may harm insurers’ efforts to
slow cost growth if hospitals and doctors decide to resist them,
said  John Rother , president and CEO of the National Coalition on
Health Care, a nonprofit in Washington that advocates for
expanded coverage and reduced cost growth. Medicare is the
government’s health program for the elderly and disabled.  Presbyterian Healthcare Services, an eight-hospital chain
in  New Mexico , was one of the first participants in Medicare’s
experiment in accountable care. In the event the court wipes out
the measure, Congress and the next president are likely to find
themselves re-creating many of the same programs because of
budget pressure, said  Jim Hinton , Presbyterian’s president.  “The basic need to rein in the cost of Medicare as a
bellwether payer for the whole health-care system doesn’t
change,” he said in a telephone interview.  Insurers, under pressure from employers to reduce health
costs, have echoed many of Medicare’s adaptations, such as the
accountable care groups, Ignagni said.  “That’s not going away,” she said. “We’re not turning
back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  