-- Investors Make Record Bets on Peso Rebound With Structured Notes
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-06-12T20:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/investors-make-record-bets-on-peso-rebound-with-structured-notes.html
Banks last month sold the most U.S.
structured notes tied to bets that the  Mexican peso  will
appreciate against the dollar in at least two years.  Investors bought $85 million of securities tied to the
currency pair in five offerings in May, the largest amount since
at least the beginning of 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. On May 24,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , through its HSBC USA
Inc. unit, issued  $55.2 million  of one-year notes that yield at
least 9.45 percent if the Mexican peso doesn’t decline by more
than 15 percent against the  U.S. dollar , the largest such
offering in at least two years, Bloomberg data show.  The peso “has been heavily sold and that leaves it ripe
for a bounce higher,”  Joe Manimbo , a Washington-based market
analyst for Western Union Business Solutions, said in a
telephone interview. “U.S. interest rates appear to be staying
put for the foreseeable future, so that’s a broader source of
dollar weakness.”  The Mexican currency may rise if there is a third round of
quantitative easing, or QE3, in which the  Federal Reserve  buys
government debt to drive  interest rates  lower, Manimbo said.
Economists at Morgan Stanley, Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. see greater odds of that occurring, with Morgan
Stanley estimating the chances at 80 percent, up from 50 percent
last month.  The peso has gained about 2.2 percent since June 1 after
touching its lowest level since March 2009 on that day. It sank
9.5 percent against the dollar in May, the most among widely
traded currencies, as concern that Greece will abandon the euro
prompted investors globally to avoid higher-yielding assets. The
currency also weakened on speculation growth is slowing in the
U.S., the destination for about 80 percent of Mexico’s exports.  Selling Reserves  Mexico ’s central bank intervened in the foreign-exchange
market for the second time in two weeks May 31, selling $107
million of reserves to slow the currency’s drop. Before the two
interventions in May, Banco de Mexico last sold dollars on Dec.
17, 2009, to shore up the peso through a similar program it put
in place following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  sold $10.3 million of structured
notes tied to the peso on May 17. The securities return 8.75
percent if the peso doesn’t fall by 15 percent against the
dollar, according to a prospectus filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Banks sold $51.3 million of notes tied to the  currency pair 
in November, the second-largest total since the beginning of
January 2010, Bloomberg data show.  Structured notes are securities created by banks, which
package debt with derivatives to offer customized bets to
investors while earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are
contracts whose value is derived from stocks, bonds, currencies
and commodities. 