-- Irish Bad Bank Architect Says Agency May Be Doomed to Losses
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2012-06-12T14:52:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/irish-bad-bank-architect-says-agency-may-be-doomed-to-losses.html
Ireland’s National Asset Management
Agency may be “doomed” to lose money as real estate prices
continue to fall, according to Peter Bacon, the economist who
advised the state to set up the so-called bad bank.  “Too many assets are being sold too quickly,” Bacon told
reporters in Dublin at a briefing today. The briefing was hosted
by Treasury Holdings Ltd., which is in legal disputes with NAMA
over the agency’s decision to put some of the Dublin-based real-
estate company’s units into receivership.  On Bacon’s advice, former Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan 
set up the agency in 2009, as a collapse in property prices
began to gather momentum. The agency paid about 32 billion euros
($40 billion) for real-estate loans originally worth 74 billion
euros as it purged the country’s banks of their riskiest assets.  NAMA had a 200 million-euro profit last year as charges for
bad loans declined, compared with a 1.2 billion-euro loss for
the prior year. The agency has to sell loans to meet a target of
reducing them by 24 percent by the end of 2013.  NAMA’s losses are set to rise “significantly,” Bacon
said, without giving an estimated figure. NAMA declined to
comment on Bacon’s estimate, a spokesman said.  The Irish state has pumped about 62 billion euros into its
financial system, in part to cover losses generated by the sale
of loans to NAMA. The government stepped out of the bond markets
in September 2010 and sought a 67.5 billion-euro bailout, as the
costs of one of world’s worst banking crises became too big to
handle alone.  Debt Restructuring  With Ireland’s debts forecast by the government to peak at
about 120 percent of gross domestic product, the nation may be
forced into some kind of debt restructuring as global economic
conditions worsen, Bacon said.  Bacon said the government should consider a part sale of
NAMA to a private-equity firm or a real-estate investment
company.  Irish  house prices  have fallen by more than half from their
2007 peak, according to the country’s statistics office.
Commercial property prices have declined about 65 percent,
according to Investment Property Databank Ltd.  The yield on Ireland’s 2020 bonds rose 7 basis points today
to 7.32 percent. A basis point represents 0.01 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net 
Colm Heatley at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  