-- Italy Tax Increases Backfire as Monti Tightens Belts
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-06-12T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/italy-tax-increases-backfire-as-monti-tightens-belts.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
is facing signs that tax increases are beginning to backfire as
his new levy on real estate goes into effect.  Value-added tax receipts have declined since Monti’s
predecessor,  Silvio Berlusconi , raised the rate by 1 percentage
point in September as the economy was slipping into  recession, 
government data released June 5 showed. The amount collected
fell in the 12 months ended April 30 to the lowest since 2006.  Finding the right deficit-reduction mix as Monti fights to
meet budget targets is critical for Italy to avoid becoming the
biggest victim yet of Europe’s financial crisis. A slump that is
driving up welfare spending is adding urgency to Monti’s effort
to make the economy more competitive amid a growing backlash
across  Europe  against austerity.  “This government has raised taxes too much,” said  Alberto Alesina , a professor of political economy at  Harvard University .
“It would be much, much better to lower spending.”  Monti testifies in Parliament today for the first time
since Spain received a bailout for its banks, leaving Italy
exposed as the next potential investor target. Italy is unlikely
to need a bailout because its finances are in better shape than
Spain’s, Fitch Ratings Managing Director  Ed Parker  said
yesterday.  The decline in VAT revenue figures may bolster the
government’s efforts to postpone a further increase in the rate
after October by 2 percentage points to 23 percent. That would
put Italy on par with  Greece .  ‘Strong Deterioration’  Monti planned to tap more than 4 billion euros of projected
savings from a government spending review to put off the VAT
increase, which his deputies acknowledge may deepen the
recession.  “ The economy  shows signs of strong deterioration,”
Finance Undersecretary Gianfranco Polillo told the Senate in
 Rome  on June 6. “In light of the fall in domestic demand,
betting on a further VAT increase would be incomprehensible and
even wrong.”  Still, efforts to delay the increase may have been upended
by deadly earthquakes in northern Italy last month that caused
billions of euros of damage, as quake relief will also come from
the spending review funds.  The $1.4 trillion Italian economy contracted 0.8 percent in
the first quarter after slipping 0.7 percent in the last three
months of 2011. Italy’s gross domestic product, the third-
biggest among euro nations, will fall 1.4 percent this year, the
European Commission estimates. That would be the deepest slide
after Greece, Portugal and  Spain  among the 17 euro members.  Fostering Growth  Monti has advocated shifting to more growth-oriented
policies and gained a potential ally with the May election of
French President  Francois Hollande , who defeated incumbent
 Nicolas Sarkozy  by campaigning against austerity.  Monti’s tax increases were forecast to bring Italy’s budget
deficit within the European Union limit of 3 percent of GDP this
year even with expectations of a 1.3 percent increase in public
spending. The measures were praised by  Bank of Italy  Governor
Ignazio Visco, who in October succeeded European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi , as an emergency stopgap that must be
revisited and balanced with reduced expenses.  “This burden can be sustained only temporarily,” Visco
said in a June 9 speech. “A stronger and more incisive fight
against  tax evasion  and the implementation of spending cuts are
the indispensable premises for the necessary reduction of tax
rates.”  Tax Burden  Under Monti, Italy’s tax burden, the ratio of  tax revenue 
to economic output, will rise to 45.1 percent this year from
42.5 percent in 2011, and won’t start falling until 2015.  Monti, a former university president and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  adviser, was brought to power in November to rein in
bond yields and bring  down debt . His 20 billion-euro austerity
package raised retirement ages and was followed by measures to
ease firing rules and promote competition. Increased rates on
gasoline were enacted in December and on  luxury goods  earlier
this year, while the first property tax payments are due next
week.  “I don’t want to deny that we could have done more and
better,” Monti said in a June 7 speech. Still, his reforms have
produced results, he said.  Dodging Tax  The government had 99.8 billion euros in VAT receipts in
the 12 months ended April 30 tied to internal trade, or
transactions among domestic counterparties. That compares with
100 billion euro in the 12 months ended March 31 and 101.3
billion euros in the period ended April 30, 2011.  “VAT revenue does depend on growth in domestic
consumption,” said Ian Roxan, director of the Tax Programme at
 London School of Economics  and Political Science. “It is also
not immune to evasion. It is certainly possible that in a time
of austerity people become less willing to pay VAT.”  Italy  loses more than 120 billion euros in unpaid taxes
every year, according to the Equitalia tax-collection agency.
The country retrieved 12.7 billion euros from the fight against
evasion in 2011, up 15.5 percent from 2010.  Bond yields, which declined in the first three months of
the year as Monti enacted his program, have surged since March
as concerns about Spain’s finances and Greece’s future in the
euro mounted. The yield on the country’s 10-year bond ended at
6.17 percent, the highest since January, and 4.7 percentage
points more than that of  Germany .  Above Average  The September increase in the VAT rate pushed Italy to 21
percent, which is 1 percentage point more the average among the
17 countries using the euro, according to a  report  last month
from Eurostat, the statistics department of the European Union.
VAT rates are as high as 18 percent in Spain, 19 percent in
Germany and 19.6 percent in France.  Monti is showing signs of backing away from rigor even as
Italians brace for the property tax, which reinstates levies on
first homes. He pushed back Berlusconi’s timetable for a
balanced budget by one year to 2014, and is actively trying to
avoid a new VAT increase.  Total tax revenue fell 0.1 percent to 413.3 billion euros
in the 12 months ended April 30, compared with 413.7 billion
euros in the period ended on the same date a year earlier.
Direct tax receipts, which include levies on personal and
company income, fell 0.9 percent to 218.7 billion.  Total spending, including regional and local outlays, is
set to rise in 2012 to 809 billion euros, or about 51 percent of
GDP, according to Finance Ministry forecasts published in April.
Central government spending is expected to decline by 0.4
percent as Monti cuts transfers to Italy’s regions.  The government must “reduce public expenditures
drastically and quickly,” said Angelo Cremonese, an economics
professor with specialization in taxes at Luiss University.
“You don’t increase revenue by raising” tax rates, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jertling@bloomberg.net  