-- Italy Banks Fall for Third Day on Contagion Risk: Milan Mover
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2012-06-12T09:25:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/italy-banks-fall-for-third-day-on-contagion-risk-milan-mover.html
Italian lenders fell in Milan for a
third day on investor concern that Italy is at the frontline of
 Europe ’s financial woes after the Spanish banks’ bailout.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest bank,  declined  as much as
2.8 percent, and was down 3 cents to 2.45 euros at 11 a.m.,
giving the bank a market value of 14.2 billion euros ($17.8
billion).  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , the second-largest lender, fell
as much as 3.3 percent, and was down 1.7 cents to 1.02 euros.
The FTSE Italia All-Share Banks Index dropped 1.5 percent.  “We would recommend investors to remain cautious on
Italian banks even in a short-term rally,”  Kian Abouhossein , a
London-based analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. wrote in a note
today. “Implied common equity for Euro banks will remain at
elevated levels, due to sovereign issues, regulatory concerns
and the inability to fund in public markets.”  Italian banks’ holdings of the country’s sovereign debt
have increased by one-third to 295 billion euros at the end of
April from November, making the lenders more dependent on the
financial strength of the government. Italian 10-year securities
dropped for a fifth day after Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter said yesterday  Italy  may require European Union
assistance because of the high interest payments on its debt.  Italy’s 10-year yield increased 13 basis points to 6.16
percent, the highest since Jan. 31.  Banca Popolare dell’Emilia Romagna Scrl, the worst
performer in the benchmark FTSE MIB index, dropped 3 percent to
3.48 euros, while Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena, Italy’s No. 3
bank, fell 2.93 percent to 19.8 cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  