-- J&J Says $19.7 Billion Synthes Deal Will Add to Earnings
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-06-13T20:11:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/j-j-says-19-7-billion-synthes-deal-will-add-to-earnings.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  said its $19.7
billion purchase of  Synthes Inc. (SYST) , the largest acquisition in the
company’s 126-year history, will add 3 cents to 5 cents a share
to 2012 earnings as it gained U.S. clearance for the deal.  J&J, the world’s biggest health-care products company,
entered into accelerated buyback agreements for about $12.9
billion in shares with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. to help pay for the cash-and-stock acquisition, the
 New Brunswick , New Jersey-based company said yesterday in a
statement. J&J previously said the deal would cut earnings by 22
cents a share.  The company is buying the shares through its Ireland-based
Janssen Pharmaceutical unit, which may enable it to use cash
that has accumulated outside of the U.S., said Derrick Sung, a
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst in  New York . The repurchases
will help J&J finance the transaction in an efficient manner to
enhance  shareholder value , J&J said in the statement.  “The deal will allow J&J to have a dominant competitive
positioning across all of the major markets, an advantage that
we think will become critical as we move into the new era of
health-care cost containment,” Sung wrote in a note to
investors today. “The ability to use outside the U.S. cash to
repurchase common stock, if this is the case, appears to be a
brilliant tax maneuver and a great way to use the difficult-to-
repatriate” money.  Shares Rise  J&J rose 2.2 percent to $64.45 at the close in New York.
The shares have lost 3.2 percent in the past 12 months.  J&J will take a $1.1 billion after-tax charge during the
rest of 2012 for special items related to the acquisition,
including restructuring and integration costs, the company said.
In 2013, the first full year of joint operations, the
acquisition is expected to add 10 cents to 15 cents a share to
 earnings  excluding certain items.  Synthes shareholders will receive 55.65 Swiss francs and
about 1.72 shares of J&J stock for each share they own based on
tomorrow’s expected closing. The shares of  West Chester ,
Pennsylvania-based Synthes trade in  Switzerland .  The purchase price was estimated at $21.3 billion on April
27, 2011, when J&J announced the deal for Synthes, a device
company that sells screws, plates, bone grafts and other
products that treat trauma victims.  J&J won European Union approval for the purchase April 19,
after agreeing to sell its DePuy Orthopaedics Trauma business to
Biomet Inc. for $280 million to allay antitrust concerns.  The company said yesterday it received U.S. regulatory
approval for the acquisition. The Federal Trade Commission said
on June 11 that J&J had agreed to sell to Biomet a system for
surgically treating wrist fractures as part of gaining clearance
for the deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  