-- J.R. Wakes Up ‘Dallas’; ‘True Blood’; Elder Bush: Review
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-06-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/j-r-wakes-up-dallas-true-blood-elder-bush-review.html
Who Woke J.R.?  The character on TNT’s updated “ Dallas ” who stirs J.R.
Ewing from a catatonic sleep deserves big credit. Larry Hagman’s
cantankerous oilman remains the best thing about “ Dallas .”  Modernized by executive producer Cynthia Cidre, the horse
opera mixes old guns with new. Hagman resurrects the nefarious
patriarch of the Texas oil clan, and Patrick Duffy is on hand as
good brother Bobby. Linda Gray’s Sue Ellen, J.R.’s ex, is back
to open old wounds.  The newcomers are J.R.’s son John Ross (Josh Henderson,
impressively nasty) and Bobby’s adopted son Christopher (Jesse
Metcalfe, buffer than he was in “ Desperate Housewives ,” but no
weightier a presence).  Cidre doesn’t tinker much with the “Dallas” formula: The
men battle over women (Jordana Brewster and Julie Gonzalo) and
backstab for the oil-rich family ranch Southfork.  “Dallas” smartly gives equal time to the old coots. Duffy
-- who made TV history by stepping out of a shower and
relegating an entire season to dreamland -- knows the difference
between nice and wimpy (a lesson the weepy Metcalfe might
learn).  And Hagman remains one of soap operadom’s great villains.
With his aged eyes popping open beneath white eyebrows the size
of small kittens, Hagman’s J.R. doesn’t miss a beat.  “By the way,” snaps the old man to his startled son, “I
forgive you for not visiting.”  “Dallas” airs Wednesday on TNT at 9 p.m.  New York  time.
Rating: **  ‘True Blood’  Dressed like a CEO and ruling like a mob boss, Christopher Meloni’s take-charge vampire Roman might be the fresh injection
needed by  HBO (TWX) ’s “ True Blood ,” which has begun its fifth
season.  Ruthless in ferreting out challengers to his dominion,
Meloni is a good break from the series’ creaky foundational
characters.  The show’s writers seem intent on turning longtime rival
vampires Eric (Alexander Skarsgard) and Bill (Stephen Moyer)
into an undead Hope and Crosby. Their  love triangle  with sorta-
human Sookie (Anna Paquin) has been a drag for at least a
season, but softening the bad boys is risky business.  Perhaps to add some heft, the series has cast Scott Foley
as an Iraq War vet involved in mysterious fires that seem
connected to a wartime atrocity. The plot is off to a slow
start.  Better is the return of Michael McMillian as the Rev. Steve
Newlin, the smarmy anti-vampire preacher who has crossed over in
more ways than one.  “I am a gay vampire American,” Newlin announced last
week, and his party-crashing reappearance Sunday is the
episode’s stand-out.  “True Blood” airs Sunday on  HBO  at 9 p.m. New York time.
Rating: **1/2  ‘41’  Comprehensive but ankle-deep, “41,” HBO’s languid,
undemanding documentary about George Herbert Walker Bush,
disappoints.  We learn more about the man’s preference for dogs over cats
than his assessment of son  George W. Bush ’s presidency. Indeed,
“41” takes its strongest stand on the beauty of Kennebunkport,
 Maine .  The 41st president, who turns 88 today and has not written
a memoir, gave director Jeffrey Roth unprecedented access to his
family’s coastal compound over 17 months, beginning in 2009.  If Roth’s film does nothing to broaden our understanding of
Bush’s place in history, it does make clear why the Bushes have
held tight to this chunk of paradise for well over a century.  Boating, Fishing  Produced by Bush’s longtime friend Jerry Weintraub, the
documentary neither pretends nor aspires to be anything but a
loving look at a leader in twilight. His legs weakened by a form
of  Parkinson’s disease , Bush has largely retired to boating,
fishing and the occasional ceremonial appearance.  “41” juxtaposes new footage of just that with archival
film (most remarkably, of his World War II rescue at sea) and
recent interviews conducted by the director.  Bush swats away a question about  Ross Perot , his third-
party nemesis in the 1992 elections.  “No, can’t talk about him,” Bush says. “I think he cost
me the election and I don’t like him. Other than that I have
nothing to say.”  And that’s that.  “41” airs Thursday on HBO at 9 p.m. New York time.
Rating: *1/2  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include David Shribman on  books  and  Richard
Vines  on dining out.  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 