-- Japan Stock Futures Climb as ECB Backs Deposit Guarantee
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-06-12T23:07:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/japan-stock-futures-climb-as-ecb-backs-deposit-guarantee.html
Japanese and Australian stock
futures rose as the  European Central Bank  endorsed a plan to
guarantee bank deposits and amid speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will take steps to stimulate the U.S. economy.  American Depositary Receipts of  Sony Corp. (6758) , a Japanese
consumer electronics exporter that gets a fifth of its sales in
Europe, climbed 1.5 percent. ADRs of  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , the world’s
second-largest maker of earth-moving equipment, gained 0.5
percent. Those of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  , the world’s No. 1 mining
company, advanced 1.2 percent in Sydney as investors sought
shares of companies with earnings tied to economic growth.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
September closed at 8,565 in Chicago yesterday, up from 8,530 in
Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,550 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index advanced 0.4 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
rose 0.2 percent in Wellington.  There’s a “much higher likelihood for upside than downside
at current low valuations,” said  Markus Rosgen , head of Asian
equity strategy at Citigroup Inc. in  Hong Kong . “There is now
greater faith in the backstop of the ECB’s liquidity support.
The global outlook is certainly confusing, and far from rosy,
but the market has discounted this already.”  The  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index (MXAP)  fell 12 percent from this
year’s highest level on Feb. 29 through yesterday amid concern
growth in the U.S. and China is slowing and as Europe’s debt
crisis intensified. Greece holds elections June 17 that may
determine the country’s future in the euro.  Yearly Loss  The Asian benchmark dropped 0.9 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a 5.3 percent advance by the S&P 500
and a 0.5 percent drop by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in
the Asian benchmark are  valued  at 1.2 times book value, compared
with 2.1 times for the S&P 500 and 1.3 times for the Stoxx 600,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A number below one
means companies can be bought for less than value of their
assets.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent
today. The gauge advanced 1.2 percent yesterday in  New York .  The ECB backed European Commission proposals for a banking
union based on three pillars, according to its biannual
Financial Stability Review published in Frankfurt yesterday.
These are: strengthening euro-area supervision of lenders,
establishing a deposit guarantee program and “minimizing the
risks for taxpayers” through contributions from the financial
industry, the report showed.  Job Done  Bundesbank board member Andreas Dombret said the ECB has
done its job to buy time for governments to fix weaknesses in
the euro’s foundations.  The intensification of the debt turmoil has forced Spain to
apply for external aid. Spain last week became the fourth nation
in the euro region to seek assistance since the start of the
debt crisis more than two years ago with a request of as much as
100 billion euros ($125 billion) to rescue its banks.  In the U.S., Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago President
 Charles Evans  said he would support more stimulus.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. rose 1.4 percent to 91.28 in New York
yesterday, the highest level since May 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  