-- Johnson & Johnson Latest to Quit Republican Policy Group
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-06-13T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/johnson-johnson-latest-to-quit-republican-policy-group.html
The American Legislative Exchange
Council, under fire for championing voter identification and
“Stand Your Ground” gun laws, lost another corporate member
yesterday when  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  announced it would leave the
Washington-based public policy group.  Johnson & Johnson joins more than a dozen other companies,
including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , and the  Coca-
Cola Co. (KO)  in deciding to leave the organization. The corporate
exodus has continued despite ALEC’s April announcement that it
would focus exclusively on economic issues and disband the  task
force  that handled voter-ID and gun-rights measures.  “We have been in dialogue with the American Legislative
Exchange Council for some time, and while we acknowledge ALEC’s
recent decision to focus only on innovation and growth-
supporting policies, we have decided to suspend our
participation and membership,” said a statement provided by
Carol Goodrich, a spokeswoman for the  New Brunswick , New Jersey-
based company.  Johnson & Johnson had been targeted by ColorofChange, a New
York-based civil rights group, which ran radio ads and generated
phone calls to corporate members of ALEC urging them to quit the
group.  “As Americans learn more about ALEC’s extreme agenda,
companies understand that their brands suffer through
association with a group that has weakened our democracy and
made it harder to earn a living wage,” said Rashad Robinson,
ColorofChange’s executive director.  ‘Spread Fear’  Kaitlyn Buss, ALEC’s spokeswoman, criticized
ColorofChange’s efforts in a statement.  “As we announced in April, ALEC is solely focused on free-
market solutions that create jobs and improve the economy,” she
said. “Americans of all political stripes should be deeply
troubled by the kind of tactics employed by ColorofChange
designed to spread fear and shut down debate. Ultimately, they
will not succeed because our limited government ideals are far
from the caricature the liberal extremists have attempted to
paint.”  Working through ALEC, corporate representatives have helped
state lawmakers draft various bills, which are then introduced
before state legislatures.  Members of the Congressional Black Caucus have opposed
ALEC-backed efforts to enact voter-ID laws, saying such measures
suppress minority participation in elections.  Voting Laws  The Brennan Center for Justice at  New York  University has
said 25 percent of voting-age blacks, 16 percent of voting-age
Hispanics and 15 percent of voting-age Americans in households
earning less than $35,000 lack the sort of approved
identification required by the laws.  ALEC also championed the so-called “Stand Your Ground”
laws that allow individuals to use deadly force if they feel
threatened. George Zimmerman, a community watch volunteer who
shot and killed unarmed teenager Trayvon Martin in Florida
earlier this year, has claimed self-defense. He is charged with
second-degree murder.  That case drew attention to ALEC, and its adversaries began
pressuring corporations to quit the group. An annual corporate
membership in ALEC costs $25,000 or more.  Common Cause , a Washington-based public policy advocacy
group, has asked the  Internal Revenue Service  whether ALEC is
entitled to its tax-exempt status, insisting instead that it is
a lobbying organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 