-- JPMorgan Leading Banks Issuing Commercial-Mortgage Bonds
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-06-12T16:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/jpmorgan-leading-banks-issuing-commercial-mortgage-bonds.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is leading
banks preparing bond offerings tied to commercial property loans
as  Wall Street  seeks to offload mortgages stockpiled during the
past two months.  The lender will issue securities linked to debt ranging
from a DoubleTree by Hilton hotel in Queens, New York to a mall
in Louisville, Kentucky, according to a regulatory  filing .
 Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  UBS AG (UBSN) 
are also planning sales, according to people familiar with the
offerings who declined to be identified because the deals
haven’t been announced. JPMorgan’s transaction may be marketed
as soon as next week, the people said. Spokesmen for the banks
declined to comment.  Wall Street banks have been challenged by price swings of
the debt as  Europe ’s fiscal imbalances fuel volatility, making
it hard to offer property owners consistent terms. The extra
yield investors demand to own top-ranked commercial-mortgage
bonds instead of Treasuries soared to 210 basis points, the
highest in more than three months, on June 4, according to a
Barclays  index . A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “For the CMBS market to be fully functional as a first
choice for borrowers, we need to get to a point where there is
more consistency in the terms that originators can offer and
deliver,” Scott Singer, a principal at the Singer & Bassuk
Organization LLC, a real-estate firm that represents property
owners and developers arranging financing, said in an interview
last month.  Profit Margins  Wider spreads can eat into profit margins on commercial-
mortgage bond offerings, hindering new lending and choking off
funding to borrowers with loans coming due. More than $30
billion in the debt matures this year, Bloomberg data show.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and  Wells Fargo & Co . sold
top-ranked debt maturing in about 10 years to yield 140 basis
points more than the benchmark swap last week. In April, the
spread on similar newly issued debt was 115 basis points,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Banks have arranged about $11 billion of the deals this
year, compared with $28 billion in all of 2011, Bloomberg data
show.  Sales of commercial-mortgage bonds reached a record $232
billion in 2007, helping fuel a boom in property prices,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance plummeted to
$12.2 billion in 2008 as souring subprime-home loans infected
credit markets. The market stayed shut until November 2009,
choking off funding to borrowers with debt coming due. Banks
arranged $11.5 billion in 2010, Bloomberg data show.  Forecasts for 2012 issuance range from Wells Fargo’s $25
billion to Credit Suisse Group AG’s projection of as much as $45
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  