-- JPMorgan Drafts Republicans for Damage Control
-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-06-12T17:55:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/jpmorgan-drafts-republicans-for-damage-control.html
As  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  began to
plot its Washington damage control strategy in the wake of last
month’s $2 billion trading loss, the bank realized it needed
some help with Republicans.  Although traditionally sympathetic to  Wall Street ,
Republican lawmakers in both the House and Senate not only
weren’t rushing to JPMorgan’s defense, some were agitating for
congressional hearings and investigations. Republican aides
acknowledged privately that lawmakers were enjoying that Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  -- a Democrat once known as
President  Barack Obama ’s favorite banker -- was having a
comeuppance.  JPMorgan’s government relations unit countered quickly: Mel Martinez, a former Republican senator who is a regional chairman
for the bank, was called up from  Florida  to talk with some old
colleagues. Nate Gatten, a former Fannie Mae lobbyist who works
in JPMorgan’s London office, flew back to Washington and checked
into a hotel for an extended stay.  They jumped in to the fray, as the bank fielded some 150
inquiries from congressional offices and agencies. The team
includes several other Republicans and prominent Democrats, like
the head of JPMorgan’s Washington office, Naomi Camper, a former
senior staff member for Senate Banking Committee Chairman  Tim
Johnson , and Peter Scher, a former Clinton administration
official, who oversees government relations globally.  First Sign  Dimon’s testimony before the Senate Banking Committee
tomorrow will be the first sign of whether JPMorgan’s efforts
have been effective in tamping down the political firestorm set
off by the trading flap. Unlike other large banks who tend to
hire high-powered consultants and spin doctors when faced with a
crisis, JPMorgan is relying mostly on its own in-house team
which Dimon has been building up over the past four years.  “We wanted to take ownership of this and use our own
people,” Scher said in an interview. “We knew that the
concerns and questions were for us alone.”  JPMorgan did hire one outside firm, the  BennettGroup , run
by ex-Utah Republican Senator Robert F. Bennett. While Bennett
is still barred from lobbying, the bank has been using P.
Michael Nielsen, a Republican former senior policy adviser on
the Senate Banking Committee, to help answer lawmaker queries.  There is much at stake for JPMorgan. The trading debacle
has cost the bank some $27 billion in market value and dented
Dimon’s reputation as the banking executive who most
successfully navigated the 2008 financial crisis.  The heightened scrutiny of the bank has reverberated
throughout the financial industry as regulatory agencies like
the  Federal Reserve  and the Securities and Exchange Commission
take a new look at tightening regulations like the so-called
Volcker rule banning proprietary trading. Even more broadly,
some argue lawmakers may need to look at new ways to rein in the
largest banks.  Mega Banks  “When the best managed, best led bank in the world can
have this kind of blunder happen, it just confirms no matter how
good your management is, no matter how tightly you try to
regulate and oversee these mega banks, they are just too big to
get your arms around,” said Camden Fine, president of the
 Independent Community Bankers of America , a small bank trade
group. “This is something that the Hill will have to grapple
with.”  Wall Street has a vested interest in the outcome,
particularly in preventing the furor from convincing regulators
to tighten the Volcker rule, which could limit the kind of
proprietary trading at issue. As a result, JPMorgan’s large bank
competitors haven’t moved to take advantage of its troubles.
Some are even helping them strategize about how to deal with the
controversy.  Goldman Assists  That includes  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , usually one of
JPMorgan’s fiercest competitors. According to people with
knowledge of the situation, several of Goldman Sachs’ Washington
lobbyists have been brainstorming with their JPMorgan
counterparts on tactics and messages. One piece of advice: Pull
the Band-Aid off fast and explain in as much detail as possible
what happened, the people said.  That comes from experience. Goldman was in a similar
situation two years ago when its CEO,  Lloyd Blankfein , was
summoned before a Senate panel to discuss the firm’s role in
fueling the subprime loan crisis.  Blankfein, though contrite at times, didn’t win many
plaudits for his testimony, which often relied on technical
definitions of market making to explain why the bank was on the
other side of a trade from its clients. Those answers so angered
Senator  Carl Levin  that the Michigan Democrat accused Blankfein
of misleading Congress.  ‘Franchise Protection’  Much of the work JPMorgan is doing these days to explain
the loss isn’t considered lobbying in the traditional sense.
They aren’t pushing for legislation or weighing in with
regulators on the issues. Instead, the bank is in what lobbyists
call a “franchise protection mode:” trying to push its story
about what happened and pave the way for a smooth hearing for
their CEO.  One of the bank’s key arguments to lawmakers and Obama
administration officials has been that the trading loss, while
large, is not close to being an event that could shake the
financial system or even imperil the bank. While JPMorgan and
its shareholders are feeling pain, they stress, no taxpayer
funds are on the hook.  In private conversations with lawmakers and staff, the bank
has fielded questions about deposits, emphasizing that customer
deposits were never in jeopardy. The bank is also reminding them
that there was plenty of capital to cover this type of loss.  The bank’s  Washington  office has also been warning
lawmakers and staff that Dimon may not be able to provide
answers to all their questions. JPMorgan reports earnings in
mid-July, so Dimon won’t be able to speculate on the eventual
extent of the losses. The bank has said the tally was at least
$2 billion and could grow. There is also an internal review
under way.  “This is not an issue you lobby on,” said Scher. “There
are legitimate questions from members of Congress and agencies,
and our strategy has been to be as open and as responsive as we
can be.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 