-- Justice Department Sues Florida Over Election Violations
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-06-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/justice-department-sues-florida-over-election-violations.html
Florida  was sued by the U.S. over
claims the state conducted a “systematic program to purge
voters” from registration rolls in violation of federal
election law.  The National Voter Registration Act of 1993 “expressly
forbids” such removal programs during the 90-day period before
federal elections, according to a complaint filed yesterday in
federal court in Tallahassee, Florida.  The U.S.  Justice Department  warned Florida in a May 31
letter that the state’s program to identify ineligible voters
may violate federal law, including one aimed at reviewing voter
limits in states such as Florida with a history of racial
discrimination. The state responded by saying the initiative is
valid.  “We have done all that we can in trying to reason with
people in Florida,” U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said at a
Senate Judiciary Committee hearing yesterday in  Washington . “We
are now prepared to go to court.”  Florida Governor  Rick Scott , a Republican who signed the
registration law and ordered the purge, has defended both as a
means of fighting voter fraud. Florida Democrats have assailed
both as an effort to give presumptive Republican presidential
nominee  Mitt Romney  an advantage over President  Barack Obama , a
Democrat, in a swing state four months before the election.  Next Election  The next election in Florida, a primary that includes
elections for federal office, is scheduled for Aug. 14,
according to the complaint. The 90th day before that election
was May 16, according to the complaint.  The lawsuit names Florida and its Secretary of State Ken Detzner as defendants.  “We understand the law differently than the  Department of
Justice ,” Lane Wright, a spokesman for Scott, said in a phone
interview. “The people we are removing are those non-citizens
who were never eligible to be on the voter rolls in the first
place.”  Wright said Scott’s office has “irrefutable evidence”
that non-citizens are on voter registration rolls illegally and
has verified more than 50 who voted in at least one previous
election. “We haven’t removed one eligble voter,” Wright
added.  Florida’s Suit  On June 11, Florida sued the U.S. Department of  Homeland
Security  over access to a database to verify the citizenship of
residents as the state seeks to purge non-citizens from its
voter rolls.  “We are disappointed that DOJ believes Florida must allow
ineligible voters, specifically non-citizens, to remain on the
voter rolls through the general election,” Chris Cate, a
spokesman for Detzner, said in an e-mailed statement.  “We remain committed to ensuring the accuracy of Florida’s
voter rolls, not only because it is the right thing to do, but
because it is our statutory responsibility,” Cate said.  The case is U.S. v. State of Florida, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Florida (Tallahassee).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  