-- Kempinski Adding Four Luxury Hotels to Africa Portfolio in 2012
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-06-12T12:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/kempinski-adding-four-luxury-hotels-to-africa-portfolio-in-2012.html
Kempinski AG, the luxury hotel
chain, will open properties in three African countries this year
and is looking at projects in five more, the company’s president
said.  The hotelier, based in Geneva, is adding locations in
 Ghana , Angola and Kenya as it seeks to expand across the
continent, Kempinski President and Chief Executive Officer Reto Wittwer said in an interview today in Nairobi.  “Our focus is in Nairobi as the gateway to the sub-Saharan
region as we seek to unlock opportunities,” he said. “We are
looking at opportunities in  Zimbabwe , Zambia,  South Africa ,
 Central African Republic  and  Democratic Republic  of Congo.”  Africa attracted 50 million tourists last year and that
number is expected to grow as much as 6 percent in 2012, the
 World Tourism Organization  said in January. Tourism earned the
continent $4 billion in 2010, according to the seyh State of
Tourism in Africa report  published in September.  Kempinski already owns or operates hotels in Djibouti,
 Egypt , Namibia, Chad and Seychelles. Kempinski Hotel Gold Coast
City in Accra, Ghana’s capital, is scheduled to open by the end
of the year, according to Kempinski’s website. Wittwer did not
give details on the Angola property.  In Kenya, Kempinski will operate the 202-room Villa Rosa
Kempinski in Nairobi and the Olare Mara Kempinski tented camp in
the Masai Mara game reserve, located 255 kilometers (158 miles)
southwest of the Kenyan capital.  Contract  Simba Corp., a Nairobi-based automotive conglomerate that
sells new vehicles through its flagship Simba Colt Motors Ltd.,
has spent $35 million to build both properties and hired
Kempinski on a long-term contract, Simba Chief Executive Officer
Adil Popat told reporters in Nairobi. Popat declined to give the
contract’s length.  Hotel and restaurant revenue in  Kenya , East Africa’s
largest economy, grew by 5 percent in 2011 because of higher
international arrivals and conferences, up from 4.2 percent the
previous year, the  Kenya National Bureau of Statistics  said in a
report released on May 15.  Tourism earnings rose 33 percent to 97.9 billion shillings
($1.1 billion) in 2011, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bryson Hull at 
 bhull5@bloomberg.net  