-- Kenya Raises Spending in Election Year, Undermining Targets
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-06-13T06:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/kenya-to-ramp-up-spending-in-election-year-undermining-targets.html
Kenyan Finance Minister Robinson Githae is ramping up spending to prepare for elections that were
marred by violence more than four years ago, undermining plans
to curb the budget deficit and adding to borrowing costs in  East
Africa ’s largest economy.  Githae, who will give his budget speech at about 3 p.m.
tomorrow in the capital, Nairobi, may increase expenditure by 25
percent to 1.5 trillion shillings ($17.7 billion) in the fiscal
year ending June 30, 2013, according to estimates from the
Finance Ministry. Uganda, Tanzania and  Rwanda , who make up the
East Africa Community with Kenya, are also scheduled to publish
budget estimates. The fifth member of the EAC, Burundi,
announced its 2012 spending plans in December.  East African governments, which earn most of their foreign
currency from commodity exports, including tea and coffee, are
struggling to support their economies and keep inflation under
control after last year’s drought.  Kenya  may battle to meet its
goal of trimming the budget deficit to 4.3 percent of gross
domestic product next year as it boosts spending on security and
creates a second-tier of government ahead of elections.  “It will be a challenge for Kenya to reduce the budget
deficit, given that 1.5 trillion shillings is a big increase in
the budget and revenue collection isn’t keeping pace,” Nikhil
Hira, a partner with Deloitte LLP’s East Africa unit, said by
phone from Nairobi. “The election is a budget priority with
beefed up security to make sure things go smoothly.”  Rising Yields  The yield on Kenya’s  three-month  Treasury bill rose for the
first time in almost five months, increasing to 9.801 percent at
an auction on June 7 from 9.336 percent the previous week. That
was the first advance since Jan. 19, according to data on the
central bank’s website.  Kenya is spending more on technology to avoid voter fraud,
creating a  Supreme Court , and setting up a Senate and 47 county-
level governments that will handle at least 15 percent of
revenue. Allegations of vote-rigging after the last poll in 2007
sparked two months of ethnic violence, in which at least 1,100
people died.  “Increased spending means bigger budget deficits, and in
our view they will have to be financed primarily with domestic
borrowing, pushing up yields,” Yvonne Mhango, a pan-African
economist at  Renaissance Capital  in Johannesburg, said in a
phone interview.  Fiscal Pressures  That may make it difficult for Githae to curb the budget
deficit to 4.3 percent of gross domestic product next year from
an estimated 6.9 percent in the 12 months ending June 30.
Revenue from taxes and grants is projected to climb 34 percent
to 954.6 billion shillings next year, according to budget
estimates tabled in Parliament on April 26.  Adding to fiscal pressures, Kenya is also financing a
military operation in neighboring Somalia to fight al-Shabaab
militants. The government plans to raise 106.7 billion shillings
in domestic markets and 143.6 billion from international
sources, according to the budget documents.  Uganda , which plans to start pumping its first crude oil
this year, may lift spending by 10 percent to 10.23 trillion
Ugandan shillings ($4.1 billion) in the year through June 30,
2013, according to Finance Ministry estimates in March. Building
the planned 600-megawatt Karuma hydropower plant along the Nile
River in the northwest is a budget priority, the ministry said.  Rwanda’s  budget  is set to increase by 15 percent to 1.4
trillion francs ($2.3 billion), with 26 percent of that set
aside for projects, including electricity and transport
investments, the Kigali-based Rwanda Focus, a weekly newspaper,
reported on June 11, citing a presentation of estimates by
Finance Minister John Rwangombwa.  In Tanzania, the  Finance Ministry  has proposed a 15
trillion-shilling ($9.4 billion) spending plan for the next
fiscal year, 17 percent more than this year. Expenditure will be
focused on areas including infrastructure, agriculture and
defense,  Zitto Kabwe , a spokesman for finance at the opposition
party, Chadema, said on June 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  