-- Kings Hoist First Stanley Cup for Los Angeles by Beating Devils
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-06-12T04:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/kings-beat-devils-6-1-to-win-nhl-stanley-cup-for-first-time-1-.html
The  Los Angeles Kings  won the
Stanley Cup for the first time in their 44-season history,
beating the  New Jersey Devils  in six games to become the lowest-
seeded team to capture the National Hockey League title.  Jeff Carter  and Trevor Lewis each scored two goals last
night at the Staples Center in Los Angeles as the Kings defeated
the Devils 6-1 to win the best-of-seven series four games to
two. It was the most lopsided result in a Stanley Cup-clinching
game since the Pittsburgh Penguins’ 8-0 rout of the Minnesota
North Stars in 1991.  The Kings are the first No. 8 seed to win a title that
eluded Hall of Famer  Wayne Gretzky  during his eight seasons in
Los Angeles. The Kings, who lost their only other  Stanley Cup 
Final appearance in 1993 with Gretzky as captain, now will raise
their own championship banner to the rafters of the Staples
Center alongside the 16 won by the  National Basketball
Association ’s  Los Angeles Lakers .  “A guy by the name of Wayne Gretzky came here in ’93 and
changed the game,” Kings captain  Dustin Brown , who opened the
Game 6 scoring, said in a televised interview before hoisting
the Stanley Cup. “Winning this game, I don’t know what it’s
going to do (for hockey in Los Angeles). We’ll find out in about
20 years.”  The Kings, coming off consecutive losses for the first time
in the postseason, scored three first-period goals last night
thanks to a five-minute boarding penalty on  New Jersey ’s Steve Bernier, who was thrown out of the game for a hit against Rob Scuderi.  Quick MVP   The lead held up behind goaltender Jonathan Quick, who was
voted the Conn Smythe Trophy winner as the postseason’s most
valuable player after allowing 29 goals in 20 games.  “I couldn’t be more proud of the group here,” Quick said.
“We worked so hard for so long, nothing was given to us and we
had to fight for everything.”  The only other eighth seed to play in the Stanley Cup Final
was the 2005-06 Edmonton Oilers, who lost in seven games to the
 Carolina Hurricanes . Before this season, the Kings hadn’t won a
playoff series since 2001.  “We just got confident,” said Kings defenseman Drew Doughty, who had two assists last night. “We just got that
chemistry on and off the ice and from there we went sailing.”  Less than a minute after Bernier’s penalty, Brown notched
his eighth goal of the playoffs and first in the Stanley Cup
Final. Carter increased the lead 1:42 later, credited for a goal
after Brown circled the slot and fired a shot that deflected
past Devils goaltender  Martin Brodeur .  Lewis scored the third  Los Angeles  goal on the power play
at the 15:01 mark of the first period, collecting a loose puck
in front of the net and slamming it past Brodeur.  Four-Goal Lead  Carter extended the Kings’ advantage to 4-0 less than two
minutes into the second period, taking a pass from Brown and
firing a wrist shot into the top of the net over Brodeur’s
stick-side shoulder.  Adam Henrique scored the Devils’ lone goal with 1:15 left
in the second period off an assist from Petr Sykora.  The Kings added two more goals in the final minutes of the
third period. Lewis scored into an empty net with 3:45 remaining
and Matt Greene capped the scoring for Los Angeles with an
unassisted goal 15 seconds later.  “We calmed down after losing two,” said Brown, the second
American-born captain to lead a Stanley Cup-winning team after
Derian Hatcher in 1999 with the  Dallas Stars . “We focused in,
played calm and got off to a good start.”  Eighth Seed  Los Angeles entered this postseason as the lowest seed in
the Western Conference, having gone 40-27-15 during the regular
season. The team was 13-12-4 when coach Terry Murray was fired
in December and went 25-13-11 under his replacement, Darryl Sutter, to reach the playoffs.  The Kings opened a 3-0 lead in all four of their postseason
series and eliminated the top three seeds in the Western
Conference to reach the Stanley Cup Final. They were dominant on
the road, winning a record 10 straight playoff games away from
home before a 2-1 defeat against the Devils in Game 5 at the
Prudential Center in  Newark , New Jersey.  After their consecutive losses, the Kings rebounded last
night in Los Angeles to become the first team to lift the
Stanley Cup at home since the Anaheim Ducks in 2007.  “They played a hell of a series,” Brodeur said. “They
were a tough team to play against all along. Even the games we
won, we really had to work hard for them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  