-- Kirkland, Skadden, Hunton, Baker & McKenzie: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-06-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/kirkland-skadden-hunton-baker-mckenzie-business-of-law.html
Kirkland & Ellis LLP advised Apax
Partners LLP, a British private equity firm, on its acquisition
of Paradigm Ltd., a maker of software for the oil and gas
industry.  The Kirkland team includes  New York  partners Eunu Chun, Leo
Greenberg, Jay Ptashek and Ariel Yehezkel.  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP provided legal
advice to Paradigm. The partners included Amr Razzak, and Kenton King, mergers and acquisitions in  Palo Alto , Joseph Yaffe,
executive compensation and benefits, Palo Alto, and Sean Shimamoto and Paul Oosterhuis on tax in Washington.  Apax, based in London, is buying Paradigm with JMI Equity,
a Baltimore-based private equity fund manager focusing on
technology, in a deal valuing the company at about $1 billion,
the firm said in a statement yesterday. Paradigm, based in the
Cayman Islands, makes software that helps oil and gas engineers
analyze seismic and well-log data to optimize drilling.  “The deal had a lot of diligence,” Skadden partner Razzak
said in an interview, which with a company that operates in 50
different countries, can be a challenge. The deal process
started at the end of last year.  Razzak said that having a good relationship with  Kirkland &
Ellis  was also key. “No one was playing any games and in this
deal that was very important. We had to find some solutions to
commercial issues and that’s only possible when people are being
up front and respond in a way that was straightforward.”  Apax is seeking 9 billion euros ($11.3 billion) for
leveraged buyouts, mainly in Europe. It had its so-called first
close on that fundraising with 4.3 billion euros in March,
allowing it to start investing the money, a person familiar with
the matter said at the time. The firm’s previous investments in
technology companies include Sophos Plc, a British maker of
security and data protection software.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Simmons & Co. advised
Apax. UBS AG and Royal Bank of Canada provided debt financing.
Jefferies & Co. advised Paradigm.  For more, click here.  Moves  Hunton & Williams Expands New York Commercial Real Estate Group  Hunton & Williams LLP hired four real estate finance
partners from SNR Denton LLP in New York including Brett L.
Gross, Peter J. Mignone, Donald F. Simone and Mitchell G. Williams, the firm said in a statement.  The team of lawyers, which primarily have a client base of
institutional lenders doing all kinds of lending, have worked
together for at least 12 years, first at Thacher Proffitt & Wood
LLP. When that firm closed at the end of 2008, they joined
Sonnenschein Nath & Rosenthal LLP, which merged with Denton
Wilde Sapte in Sept. 2010 to form SNR Denton.  “We were attracted to Hunton not only because of its
dominate real estate and capital finance practice and
experienced  capital markets  -- but it is strong, dynamic,
growing globally and has an energy to it that appeals to us,”
Mignone said in an interview.  He said the move to Hunton was predicated on keeping the
team together. “Not only are we committed to each other but our
client base has come to expect a team. We’ve never practiced as
one-off silos. We all work on each others’ clients, our
associates all work on each others’ associates and our clients
appreciate the fact that we’re four attorneys practicing in a
specialized and sophisticated arena and have our finger on
market in terms of developments.”  Simone and Williams have practiced together even longer,
since the early 1980s, Mignone said. Among the team’s clients
moving their real estate work with them to the new firm are
JPMorgan Chase Bank and Citigroup Global Markets Realty Corp.,
Mignone said.  The new hires bring Hunton & Williams real-estate practice
group to more than 50 lawyers, who advise clients on matters
involving commercial, industrial, retail, multifamily,
hospitality and mixed-use properties. The practice focus
includes nonperforming loans, health care, energy, retail and
general real estate finance for all real estate asset types.  “Hunton & Williams has taken another important step toward
becoming the ‘go-to’ real estate practice in New York with this
addition,” Carl F. Schwartz, chairman of the New York real
estate group, who joined the firm in April along with partner
Laurie A. Grasso, said in a statement. “Our new partners’
tremendous lending experience is the perfect complement to our
practice in serving owners, operators, funds, REITs and capital
market players across the real estate spectrum.”  Hunton & Williams has more than 800 lawyers in 19 offices
in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  M&A and Private Equity Lawyer Koiffman Joins Baker & McKenzie  Karyn Koiffman joined Baker & McKenzie LLP’s New York
office as a partner, from Kirkland & Ellis LLP. She has
experience in U.S. and Latin American mergers and acquisitions
and private equity matters.  Koiffman has represented sponsors, corporations and
financial institutions in mergers and acquisitions, leveraged
buyout transactions, recapitalizations, reorganizations, going-
private transactions, joint ventures, commercial contracts and
related corporate matters, the firm said in a statement.
Koiffman’s practice has increasingly focused on matters
involving  Latin America  and especially Brazil, where she was
born and raised. She also practiced corporate law in Brazil for
six years before relocating to the US in 2002.  Koiffman is the one of many new hires in Baker & McKenzie’s
New York office. Latin American finance and transactional
lawyers Lloyd Winans and Ricardo Martinez joined the firm in the
past few months, the firm said. Christopher Horn, who
concentrates on cross-border structured finance matters, also
joined in February.  Baker & McKenzie has more than 3,800 locally qualified
lawyers and over 5,800 professional staff in 70 offices in 43
countries.  Al Jazeera’s Chief Legal Officer Joins Bird & Bird  Al Jazeera ’s Chief Legal Officer, Osama Abu-Dehays, is set
to join Bird & Bird LLP’s international media and sports sector
groups as partner. Abu-Dehays will split his time between Qatar
and the UAE, focusing on Doha,  Abu Dhabi  and Dubai but with
wider responsibilities covering the  Middle East  and North Africa
regions.  At Al Jazeera Network, Abu-Dehays had responsibility for
the legal and business affairs of the global media
conglomeration. Abu-Dehays has also held the position of Chief
Legal Officer at Arab Media Group and was Deputy Head of Legal
at MBC Middle East, the firm said in a statement.  “Osama brings a deep understanding of the media and sports
sectors to our international team, as well as excellent regional
experience in those areas and in the IT and telecommunications
sectors,” Mark Pinder, head of Bird & Bird Middle East said in
a statement.  Bird & Bird has lawyers in 23 offices in Europe, the Middle
East and Asia.  Litigation  Gupta to Stay Silent as Insider-Trading Trial Enters Final Week  Rajat Gupta, the former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director
accused of passing tips to Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, will remain silent as his insider-trading trial
enters its final week, his lawyer told the judge.  Gary Naftalis , who said in court June 8 that it was
“highly likely” Gupta would testify in what will be the
trial’s final week, told U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in a
letter dated June 10 that Gupta wouldn’t be a witness.  “We have spent the last day reviewing what we believe we
need to present in the defense case,” Naftalis said in the
letter. “After substantial consideration, we have determined
that Mr. Gupta will not be a witness on his own behalf in the
defense case. We wanted to alert the court and the government of
this decision as soon as it had been made.”  Gupta, who ran McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to 2003, is accused
of giving Rajaratnam inside information about Goldman Sachs and
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , where Gupta was also a director. Tips
Gupta allegedly passed to Rajaratnam involve Goldman Sachs
earnings in the first quarter of 2007 and fourth quarter of
2008. Another involves a $5 billion  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B) 
investment in New York-based Goldman Sachs on Sept. 23, 2008.  Gupta has pleaded not guilty to one count of conspiracy and
five counts of  securities fraud , which carries a maximum term of
20 years in prison.  Naftalis declined to comment on the letter.  Ellen Davis , a
spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan, also
declined to comment.  “There could be a hundred reasons Gary would have said one
thing on Friday and changed his mind,” Roland Riopelle, a
former federal prosecutor in New York, said in a phone
interview. Now a white-collar defense lawyer, Riopelle
represented  David Plate , a former trader at Schottenfeld Group
LLC who pleaded guilty and testified at the trial of Galleon
Group trader  Zvi Goffer .  If Gupta were to take the stand, he would face cross-
examination by Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky , who is
experienced at questioning accused insider traders. In 2010,
Brodsky spent parts of two days cross-examining Joseph Contorinis, a former Jefferies Paragon Fund money manager who
was subsequently convicted at trial. Contorinis was sentenced to
six years on prison, while prosecutors had asked for a lengthier
term because they said he lied on the witness stand.  “There’s really no way to tell whether that was some kind
of faked arch tactic, that if you fail, the prosecutor, Reed
Brodsky, would spend all weekend working on his cross-
examination of Rajat Gupta rather than his summation,” Riopelle
said. A defendant taking the stand often allows prosecutors the
chance to reprise their best evidence, he said.  Yesterday Brodsky used his questioning of a defense witness
to attack the ex-Goldman Sachs Group Inc. director’s claim that
another bank executive was the source of illegal tips.  In the first full day of the defense case, Gupta’s lawyers
called Richard Schutte, the former president of Galleon Group
LLC’s domestic unit, to testify about the relationship between
the fund and Goldman Sachs in late 2008.  Rajaratnam got some of his illegal tips from David Loeb,
Goldman Sachs’s head of Asia equity sales in New York, defense
attorney Gary Naftalis has said in court. On cross-examination
of Schutte, Assistant U.S. Attorney Brodsky tried to show that
Loeb wasn’t Rajaratnam’s source of information about Goldman
Sachs.  “Is it fair to say that Mr. Loeb, in any of the e-mails
distributed to you, did not provide any information about
Goldman Sachs?” Brodsky asked.  “Yes, that’s fair to say,” Schutte replied.  Brodsky also emphasized that Loeb’s focus was on overseas
stocks, and not U.S. banks.  “Do you know that Mr. Loeb specialized in Asian
equities?” Brodsky asked.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here and here.  Kerviel Judge Says Subprime Evidence Old, Wants Testimony  Evidence  Jerome Kerviel  presented to support claims  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  let him amass 50 billion euros ($63 billion) in
stock index futures trades so it could later hide losses on
subprime loans shows “nothing new” to the Paris judge hearing
the appeal against his 2010 conviction.  Judge Mireille Filippini, who last week demanded evidence
from Kerviel’s lawyers, led by David Koubbi, to support
allegations he was caught up in a conspiracy, said an unsigned
letter and documents related to a  Societe Generale  account’s
trades from January 2008 wasn’t sufficient.  The anonymous letter was “founded on rumors,” and the
documents show “nothing new to the court,” Filippini said
yesterday. After she ordered Kerviel’s attorneys to disclose who
wrote the letter, Kerviel’s lawyer Koubbi identified the author
as Philippe Hoube, who works at brokerage Newedge Group SA,
where Kerviel passed many of his orders.  “I want to hear from this man,” Filippini said and
scheduled a hearing for June 14 for Hoube and Maxime Kahn, who
unwound Kerviel’s unauthorized trades, to testify.  Newedge didn’t immediately respond to a call for comment.  Kerviel, convicted in 2010 of breach of trust, forging
documents and computer hacking in relation to a 4.9 billion-euro
trading loss at Societe Generale, told the Paris court last week
he’d heard of the conspiracy from a person who, he said, refused
to testify in public. He’s appealing his conviction and sentence
of three years in jail and repayment of the bank’s loss in full.  Filippini and Societe Generale’s lawyers questioned the
logic of the theory about the bank’s “machinations,” asking
Kerviel why, if the bank knew about his actions and wanted to
minimize the impact of its subprime losses through him, they
didn’t offset it with his 1.4 billion-euro profit for 2007.  “Why didn’t the bank take your 1.4 billion right away if
it knew?” Filippini asked. “It would have been so thrilled to
improve its record.”  Kerviel said he reported just 55 million euros in profit at
the end of 2007, because he felt that was a more reasonable
figure given the trading limits on his desk.  Filippini criticized a claim by Kerviel’s lawyers that
someone tampered with recordings of conversations made when
Kerviel was called into the bank regarding the unwinding of his
trades. She said Koubbi and his staff hadn’t listened to all 8
hours of the recordings “before pronouncing it tampered with.”  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 