-- Kodak Says 20 Patent Bidders Sign Non-Disclosure Pacts
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-06-12T12:53:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/kodak-says-20-patent-bidders-sign-non-disclosure-pacts.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , the bankrupt
photography pioneer selling digital-imaging patents, said 20
parties signed agreements to view confidential information and
access an electronic-data room ahead of potential bids.  Kodak filed a motion in U.S. Bankruptcy Court seeking
approval of an auction process that would keep secret all bidder
names and the amounts offered, according to a statement from the
Rochester, New York-based company. That may lead to the
announcement of a winner on Aug. 13.  Kodak is selling more than 1,100 patents to help  shrink the
company ’s focus to printing rather than photography. It had
until June 30 to file an outline of the bid procedures, and the
motion accelerates that process. Its two patent portfolios, one
containing digital-capture patents and the other imaging systems
and services, may be Kodak’s most valuable assets.  “The bidding procedures are designed to allow bidders to
give us their best offers without fear of showing their cards to
competitors,” Timothy Lynch, Kodak’s vice president and chief
intellectual property officer, said in the statement. “In
filing these proposed procedures in advance of the June 30
deadline in our lending agreement, we are moving ahead as
quickly as possible with the process.”  The company said it has generated more than $3 billion from
licensing the digital-imaging patents from users including
Samsung Electronics Co., LG Electronics Inc., Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc. and Nokia Oyj.  Patents’ Value  The patent technology is valued at $2.21 billion to $2.57
billion, based on an estimate by 284 Partners LLC, a patent
advisory firm cited in a debtor’s motion filed before a  U.S.
bankruptcy court  in January.  Kodak is pursuing patent litigation before the U.S.
International Trade Commission against Apple Inc., Research In
Motion Ltd. and HTC Corp., alleging they infringe some of the
for-sale patents. Kodak has said a victory in the case may force
the companies to pay for licensing and bolster the value of the
patent portfolios the company is seeking to sell.  Kodak is appealing to the six-member commission in
 Washington , which has the power to block imports of products
that infringe U.S. patents. Their decision is due in September.  Kodak hired Lazard Ltd. more than a year ago to try to find
buyers for the patents. The photography pioneer that introduced
the Brownie camera more than a century ago filed for bankruptcy
in January as digital photography cut into its film business.  The case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  