-- N.Z. Card Spending Rises a Third Month, House Prices Gain
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-06-12T02:34:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/n-z-card-spending-rises-a-third-month-house-prices-gain-1-.html
New Zealand  consumer purchases on
debit, credit and store cards at retail outlets advanced for a
third consecutive month in May, while  house prices  increased,
adding to signs of a domestic economic recovery.  The value of transactions on electronic cards rose 0.9
percent from April, when it increased 1 percent,  Statistics New
Zealand  said today in Wellington. House prices rose 1.7 percent
from April when they fell 0.3 percent, according to a separate
index published by the Real Estate Institute of New Zealand.  New Zealand’s economy is giving mixed signals, with export
volumes, retail sales and  home construction  falling in the first
three months of the year. Stronger consumer spending and
property demand may strengthen the case for  Reserve Bank  of New
Zealand Governor Alan Bollard to keep the key  interest rate  at
2.5 percent for a 10th straight meeting on June 14, with all 16
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News expecting no change.  “Interest-rate sensitive sectors of the economy are now
responding,” said  Philip Borkin , economist at Goldman Sachs New
Zealand Ltd. in Auckland. “This makes the prospects of a near-
term interest rate cut from the RBNZ quite unlikely.”  There was a 23 percent chance of a quarter-point cut this
week and a 68 percent chance of a reduction by September as at
2:30 p.m. in Wellington, according to interest rate swaps data
compiled by Bloomberg. New Zealand’s dollar bought 77.1 U.S.
cents from 76.80 cents immediately before the housing report was
released.  In May, card spending on fuel jumped 4.6 percent, today’s
report showed. Apparel, hospitality and purchases of durable
goods such as appliances and furniture also increased. Sales of
consumables such as food, which make up 35 percent of retail
spending, fell 0.1 percent.  Excluding sales at fuel outlets, car dealers and parts
stores, transactions rose 0.8 percent.  Spending on services rose 3.4 percent while purchases of
non-retail items such as travel and medical fees also gained.
Spending on retail, non-retail and services items combined rose
1.2 percent, the statistics agency said.  The number of credit and debit card transactions rose 4.9
percent in May from the year-earlier month, Paymark, which
processes three-quarters of all debit and credit card
transactions, said in a separate report on its website today.  House sales rose 24 percent from a year earlier to 7,175 in
May, the REINZ said in an e-mailed statement. The time needed to
sell a house rose to 38 days from 37 days in April, the report
showed.  New Zealand banks last month lowered interest rates on
fixed-term home loans as two-year swap rates fell to a record.  May’s sales increase “is considerably stronger than normal
seasonal trends would suggest,” REINZ Chief Executive Helen
O’Sullivan said in today’s statement. “This is likely partly
driven by good deals on interest rates during the month and a
desire by buyers to complete purchases before winter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  