-- Navistar Falls After Court Throws Out EPA Engine Rule
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-06-12T20:52:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/navistar-falls-11-percent-after-court-vacates-engine-rule.html
Navistar International Corp. (NAV) , the
third-biggest U.S. and Canadian maker of truck engines, fell
5.5 percent after a U.S. appeals court ruled it can no longer
pay fines to sell engines that don’t comply with 2010
environmental standards.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  Washington  threw out an
interim rule by the Environmental Protection Agency designed to
let Navistar sell the noncompliant engines if it paid a fine.
The court found the agency violated the Administrative
Procedures Act by issuing the interim final rule, or IFR,
without opportunity for comment or formal notice.  The “context of this case reveals that the only purpose of
the IFR is, as petitioners put it, to rescue a lone manufacturer
from the folly of its own choices,” the court said.  Mack Trucks Inc. and Volvo Group North America LLC brought
the lawsuit.  The court said it recognized that its decision to throw out
the interim measure “will be of limited practical impact” as
the EPA is drafting a final rule. The deadline for public
comments on it was April 12.  The “EPA is certainly free to make whatever finding it
deems appropriate in the pending final rulemaking” the court
said. “For now therefore, we simply hold that the EPA lacked
good cause for not providing a formal notice and comment
rulemaking.”  Shares Fall  Navistar fell $1.59 to $27.15 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading, after earlier declining as
much as 12 percent. The shares have slid 28 percent this year
after falling 35 percent last year.  Navistar’s $900 million of 8.25 percent notes due November
2021 dropped 4 cents to 94 cents on the dollar at 4:40 p.m. in
New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The bonds earlier
fell as low as 89.9 cents, the lowest price since the company
sold them in 2009.  “We are affected and disagree with the court’s ruling,”
Karen Denning, a spokeswoman for Lisle, Illinois-based Navistar,
said in an e-mail. “We will ask for a rehearing.”  The company is working with the EPA on its certification
and on the final rule, she said.  Date Delayed  In 2001, the EPA enacted a rule requiring a 95 percent
reduction in emissions of nitrogen oxide from heavy-duty  diesel
engines , delaying its effective date until 2010 to allow the
industry to create the necessary technologies, according to the
three-judge panel’s decision written by Judge  Janice Rogers Brown .  Navistar adopted a different technology from its
competitors and was able to keep selling its engines by using
so-called banked emission credits, according to the decision. In
October, Navistar told the EPA it would run out of credits in
2012, and on Jan. 31 the EPA issued the rule allowing the
company instead to pay fines known as non-conformance penalties.
The company has declined to disclose how many emission credits
it has left.  “Without ability to pay fines, Navistar presumably
exhausts remaining credits at a faster pace,”  David Leiker , an
analyst with Robert W. Baird & Co., said today in a research
note.  Final Rule  In January, when the EPA issued the interim final rule for
Navistar, it proposed a similar set of standards for the final
rule that would continue allowing noncompliant engines to be
sold as long as fines were paid.  Volvo, Mack and  Cummins Inc. (CMI)  have objected that the
proposed rule gives Navistar an unfair advantage. The EPA hasn’t
said when it will issue the final regulations, or if it will
modify its proposal.  Cathy Milbourn, a spokeswoman for the agency, declined to
comment today on the court’s decision.  Last week, Navistar lowered its annual profit forecast to a
range of break-even to $2 a share as it struggles to develop a
13-liter engine that meets EPA certification. The EPA is
monitoring truck manufacturers’ efforts to meet clean-air
regulations on nitrogen oxides, or NOx, a common smog-forming
byproduct of internal combustion engines.  2012 ‘Disappointment’  “It goes without saying that the start of the year has
been a disappointment for us,” Dan Ustian, Navistar’s chief
executive officer, said on a June 7 conference call with
analysts and investors.  Navistar said its share of the heavy truck market in the
U.S. and  Canada  has dropped to 16 percent this year from
24 percent in the year ended Oct. 31, 2010. “Aura” and
“speculation” in the market and by investors has hurt sales,
Ustian said.  A lack of certification cost the company $10 million in
penalties in the quarter and may cost as much as $40 million if
the engine isn’t certified this year, Ustian said June 7.  The case is Mack Trucks Inc. v. Environmental Protection
Agency, 12-1077,  U.S. Court of Appeals , District of Columbia
Circuit (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  