-- New York Asks Insurers of Lapsed Borrowers for New Rates
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-06-12T19:54:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/new-york-ask-insurers-of-lapsed-borrowers-for-new-rates.html
New York State is demanding that
insurers of lapsed home-loan borrowers submit new rate proposals
after hearings last month showed firms charged too much for the
coverage.  “Our hearings suggest a lack of competition, high prices
and low loss ratios, all of which hurt homeowners,” Department
of Financial Services Superintendent  Benjamin Lawsky  said today
in an e-mailed statement. “It is now appropriate for insurers
to propose new rates along with justifications for those new
rates.”  Assurant Inc. (AIZ) ’s American Security Insurance Co. unit,  QBE
Insurance Group Ltd. (QBE)  and American Modern Home Insurance Co. were
sent the order and are required to respond by July 6, according
to the statement. They make up more than 90 percent of the so-
called force-placed insurance market in New York.  Mortgage borrowers are required to pay for the coverage
when they lapse on their existing policies to protect mortgage
investors against vandalism and storm damage. The insurers often
pay out less than 25 cents for every dollar in premiums they
collect on the policies, Lawsky said at the hearing in May,
compared with about 63 cents on a typical homeowner’s policy.  Shawn Kahle, a spokeswoman for Assurant, said the company
is “prepared to revise our lender-placed offerings to reflect
mortgage market conditions and meet the needs of New York
homeowners.” E-mails sent to Sydney-based QBE and American
Modern Home Insurance weren’t immediately returned.  ‘Foreclosure Cliff’  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo , who announced the
Department of Financial Services order, said the cost of such
insurance “can push a family over the foreclosure cliff because
they have no choice than to pay a lot more for a lot less.”  Force-placed coverage is often more expensive than standard
policies because insurers can’t inspect the properties, and the
homes they cover are frequently in areas more prone to
hurricanes and other natural disasters, John Frobose, president
of American Security Insurance, testified at last month’s
hearing.  Assurant gained 0.2 percent to $33.39 at 3:32 p.m. in New
York and the American depositary receipts of QBE rose 1.6
percent to $12.40.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  