-- Nicholas Cosmo's Brokers Sued by SEC Over Ponzi Scheme
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-06-12T20:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/nicholas-cosmo-s-brokers-sued-by-sec-over-ponzi-scheme.html
Brokers who worked with Nicholas Cosmo on a $415 million  Ponzi scheme  misrepresented the safety
of investments to thousands of investors, the Securities and
Exchange Commission said in a lawsuit.  The SEC sued 14 brokers, account representatives and vice
presidents for Cosmo’s Agape World Inc. today in federal court
in  Brooklyn ,  New York . Cosmo, who was arrested in January 2009,
pleaded guilty to running a Ponzi scheme and was sentenced to 25
years in prison last October.  According to the SEC, Agape solicited investor funds to
make short-term bridge loans, taking in about $415 million while
only actually lending about $30 million. Actual losses to
victims totaled about $195 million, the U.S. said.  Brokers “knowingly or recklessly, and repeatedly, made
misrepresentations to investors concerning the Agape
securities,” according to the SEC complaint. They also urged
investors to roll over their principal and interest from one
security to the next to perpetuate the scheme, the SEC said.  The SEC is seeking civil penalties plus disgorgement of
ill-gotten gains received as a result of the alleged violations
of federal securities laws.  Four of the defendants were arrested April 25 on a criminal
complaint, according to the complaint. Cosmo, who was sentenced
by U.S. District Judge Denis Hurley in Central Islip, New York,
ran the scheme from October 2003 to January 2009.  Agape had offices in Hauppauge, New York, on  Long Island ,
and in the borough of Queens in  New York City .  The case is SEC v. Arias, 12-2937, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  