-- Nokia Said to Near Sale of Vertu Luxury-Phone Unit to EQT
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l ,   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-06-13T07:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/nokia-said-to-near-sale-of-vertu-luxury-phone-unit-to-eqt.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  is nearing a deal to sell
its Vertu luxury-phone unit to Swedish private-equity firm EQT
Partners AB as it divests assets as part of a turnaround plan,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  The transaction values Vertu at about 200 million euros
($250 million), said one of the people, declining to be
identified as the talks are private. A deal could be announced
as early as this week, another person said. Church Crookham,
England-based Vertu is known for its jewel-bedecked mobile
phones that sell for an average price of more than 5,000 euros.  Nokia is selling assets as Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop seeks to revive a mobile-phone business that’s been
devastated by competition from devices running software from
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  The Espoo, Finland-based company is
betting on a software partnership with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  to
rebuild its cachet in the critical North American market, where
it has struck deals with carriers  AT&T Inc. (T)  and T-Mobile USA to
sell its flagship Lumia smartphone.  “Vertu is a bet on a very specific, niche market, though
it’s a niche that’s growing,” said Francisco Jeronimo, an
analyst at researcher IDC in London. Its new owner will face the
challenge of modernizing Vertu devices’ technology, which has
until now been largely based on Nokia’s obsolete Symbian
operating system, to compete with devices like Apple’s iPhone,
he said.  Multilingual Hotline  Representatives at Nokia, EQT and Vertu declined to
comment.  Vertu, started by Nokia’s then-chief designer Frank Nuovo
in 1998, is the dominant player in the luxury-phone sector, with
about 60 percent of the Western European market in 2010,
according to IDC.  The unit has sought to stand apart from rival offerings
like  Research In Motion Inc. (RIMM) ’s Porsche-branded BlackBerry
devices with its “concierge” service, a 24-hour, multilingual
hotline that assists clients with requests ranging from
restaurant reservations to sourcing esoteric gifts.  Luxury phones have been a rare bright spot for Nokia, whose
shares have declined almost 40 percent this year, the worst
performance in the 27-company  Stoxx 600 Technology Index (SX8P) , which
was up 0.8 percent. Nokia  advanced  0.9 percent to 2.28 euros at
10:13 a.m. Helsinki time, valuing the former global handset
leader at about 8.5 billion euros.  Vertu, which doesn’t disclose its earnings publicly, saw
“high double-digit sales growth” in 2010 and 2011, driven
largely by demand from  emerging markets  in Asia and the Middle
East, President Perry Oosting said in September. The unit
operates more than 80 retail stores in locales like  Beverly
Hills ’ Rodeo Drive and Paris’s Rue Royale.  The Vertu deal would be Stockholm-based EQT’s second
acquisition this month. The buyout firm yesterday announced the
purchase of BSN Medical that values the German bandage supplier
at 1.8 billion euros. EQT, which is partly owned by Sweden’s
Wallenberg family, in October raised 4.75 billion euros from
investors for a new buyout fund focused on Northern and Eastern
Europe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in  London  at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  