-- Nomura Faces Regulatory Action on Insider Information Leaks
-- B y   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2012-06-12T08:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/nomura-faces-regulatory-action-after-insider-information-leaks.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  may face
“severe action” by Japanese regulators after employees of the
country’s biggest securities firm leaked insider information,
Financial Services Minister Tadahiro Matsushita said.  “It’s regrettable that information on public offerings was
leaked to the sales department of the lead underwriter, which is
supposed to strictly manage such information,” Matsushita said
at a news conference today in Tokyo. He didn’t elaborate on the
types of action the Financial Services Agency may take, saying
it depends on the outcome of the investigation.  Nomura said last week that employees gave non-public
information used for  insider trading  in 2010, acknowledging for
the first time their role in cases being examined by regulators.
The Securities Exchange and Surveillance Commission, the FSA’s
watchdog arm, has since March recommended penalizing the
companies that profited from the tips while stopping short of
punishing the underwriters who provided them.  The investigation centers on trading of shares of Japanese
companies before they announced equity offerings in 2010.
Employees at Nomura, a manager of stock sales by  Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. (8411) , Inpex Corp. and Tokyo Electric Power Co.,
provided information on the stock sales.  “Brokerages in general must hold a high standard of
working ethics and comply with the laws and regulations because
they handle highly confidential information,” said Matsushita,
who was appointed as part of a Cabinet reshuffle last week.  Cooperating With Inspection  Nomura repeated its regret over the leaks today. “We
continue to cooperate fully in the ongoing inspection by the
commission,” the Tokyo-based bank said in a statement.  Shares of Nomura fell 2.2 percent to 265 yen on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange today. They have retreated 36 percent since this
year’s peak on March 19, two days before the SESC revealed the
investigation.  The Japanese firm isn’t the only underwriter being probed.
The SESC found that an employee of New York-based JPMorgan Chase
& Co. gave information on a 2010 offering by Nippon Sheet Glass
Co., according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Nomura said on June 8 that it will complete an internal
investigation by a group of outside lawyers by the end of June.  The bank will “implement improvement measures and
disciplinary action” in accordance with the result of the
review and the SESC’s inspection, it said. It chose Hideki Nakagome, a former High Court chief justice who helped
investigate Olympus Corp.’s accounting fraud, to lead the
internal probe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shingo Kawamoto in  Tokyo  at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  