-- North Dakota Landowners Fight State Over Oil Rights
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-06-12T21:47:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/north-dakota-landowners-fight-state-for-mineral-rights-claims.html
North Dakota  landowners claiming the
state is usurping their subterranean oil and mineral rights and
costing them millions of dollars are asking a state court judge
to let them proceed with a lawsuit.  At the state courthouse in Williston, 70 miles south of the
Canadian border, the landowners’ lawyers today opposed North
Dakota Attorney General Wayne Stenehjem’s bid for dismissal of
the lawsuit they filed in March.  “The defendants in this action have engaged in a course of
conduct deliberately designed to procure mineral rights
belonging to private individuals -- without compensation, due
process or even any notice.” the owners said in an April court
filing.  North Dakota, the third-smallest U.S. state by population
with  672,591 residents as of 2010 , is ranked second in crude oil
output. Only  Texas , with 54.4 million barrels, produced more
crude oil in March than North Dakota’s 17.8 million barrels,
according to U.S. Energy Information Administration  data .  That productivity has propelled the state to the top of
Bloomberg’s state economic health and employment and rankings
for 2011. The oil is drawn from the Bakken shale formation, a
feature of the geologic region called the Williston Basin, the
heart of which is beneath Williston.  Rivers, Lakes  The property owners claim they own the mineral rights
between the high and low water marks of land abutting the
state’s rivers and lakes.  North Dakota disputes that assertion, countering that the
issue of ownership is at best unclear.  Williams County District Court Judge David W. Nelson told
the parties today that that issue must be decided, while
withholding his decision on whether the balance of the
landowners’ lawsuit seeking compensatory damages for the state’s
alleged taking of their land can proceed, lead plaintiffs’
lawyer Jan Conlin said in a telephone interview  “It was an important first step,” Conlin said.  A spokeswoman for Stenehjem, Liz Brocker, declined to
confirm Conlin’s account.  “We have nothing to say at this time,” Brocker said in a
telephone interview.  ‘High Watermark’  The plaintiffs seek class-action, or group, status on
behalf of all people who own mineral interests in land below the
“ordinary high watermark,” of the state’s navigable waters,
including the Missouri and Yellowstone rivers.  Conlin today said while she didn’t have a precise headcount
for the class size, there could be hundreds or even thousands of
claimants.  Millions of dollars in royalties from oil-producing wells
have been set aside in escrow-like bank accounts until the
ownership issue is resolved, Charles Neff, a lawyer for the
plaintiffs, said in March.  “The essence of this case is a boundary dispute, one that
turns on how a statute is interpreted,” Stenehjem’s office said
in an April court filing asking Nelson to throw out the case.  “This claim is premature,” the state’s lawyers said.
“Plaintiffs first need to show they own the shore zone.”  Conlin said she contested that claim in court today.  “We told the judge that the state of North Dakota does not
own the mineral rights in the shore zone,” Conlin said. “The
North Dakota statute says the land owner owns to the low water
mark.”  ‘Unsettled Questions’  In court filings, Stenehjem’s office also said the state
court case duplicates a pending federal lawsuit involving some
of the same parties.  On June 5, U.S. District Judge Daniel L. Hovland in
Bismarck, North Dakota, sent that case, filed by Brigham Oil &
Gas LP, to the same Williams County court as the landowners’
case.  “The dispute presents important and unsettled questions of
law which potentially impact numerous riparian landowners
throughout North Dakota,” Hovland wrote. “Novel and important
matters of North Dakota law, like those presented here, should
be left to the state courts and, ultimately, the North Dakota
Supreme Court to resolve.”  The case is Reep v.  State of North Dakota , 53-2012-
CV-00213, District Court of North Dakota, Northwest Judicial
Circuit (Williston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 