-- Obama vs. Romney: The Battle of the Century
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2012-06-12T22:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/obama-vs-romney-the-battle-of-the-century.html
Widespread U.S. unhappiness with the
government would seem to call for a blockbuster election, such
as the one we had exactly a century ago, when both candidates
offered sweeping plans for public renewal.  An election fought over such visions makes more sense than
our current jobs-growth donnybrook. The president has far more
control over the federal government than over the economy. The
1912 election even provides a template for contention, with one
candidate urging a  Hamiltonian  platform of reform through big
government, and the other supporting (at least in the campaign)
a progressive libertarianism.  Today,  just 19 percent  of Americans say they trust the
government most of the time or more. Only  41 percent agree  that
“the government is really run for the benefit of all the
people.”  President  Barack Obama  was elected in 2008 as a  reformer 
who connected the recession with the absence of “sensible
oversight” that can occur “when special interests put their
thumb on the scale.” Two years later, the Tea Party rode a
similar surge of anti-governmental anger fueled by the financial
bailout and health-care reform or, as Sarah Palin  put it , “the
collusion of big government and big business and big finance to
the detriment of all the rest.”  History Lessons  This unhappiness mirrors the mood in 1912, when a swath of
the U.S. also believed that special interests had subsumed the
state.  Woodrow Wilson  and  Theodore Roosevelt  were Progressives
who railed against “the shaping of our legislation in the
interest of special bodies of capital and those who organize
their use” ( Wilson’s words ) and politicians “serving the great
special interests of privilege” ( Roosevelt’s words ). More than
75 percent of the U.S. votes cast in 1912 went to Wilson or
Roosevelt or the Socialist Eugene V. Debs. The Republican
candidate,  William Howard Taft , received less than a quarter of
the votes.  The election was the culmination of a wave of reform in the
late 19th century, fueled by the malfeasance of politicians such
as Boss Tweed. His archenemy, Samuel J. Tilden, ran on the 1876
Democratic ticket  pledging to fight  the “corrupt centralism”
that had “infected States and municipalities with the contagion
of misrule, and locked fast the prosperity of an industrious
people in the paralysis of hard times.” For Tilden-era
reformers, government would be fixed if civil-service reform
replaced bad people with good people.  By the late 19th century, reformers came to blame the whole
system, not just individual politicians. Muckrakers, such as
Lincoln Steffens,  uncovered  the business leaders who funded the
political machines. The transport magnate Robert Snyder, for
example, paid $250,000 to St. Louis legislators in return for a
traction franchise that he rapidly resold for $1.25 million.
Corporate chieftains were rumored to run the  U.S. Senate , as
depicted in a splendidly vicious  1889 Puck  cartoon. Some fad-
like reforms sought more democracy, such as the referendum and
judicial recall powers, and some involved less, such as
replacing elected mayors with professional city managers.  Today, antipathy toward Wall Street’s political clout and
the bailout gets mixed together with essentially unrelated
claims of other financial-sector misbehavior, such as credit-
card fees. A century ago, hostility toward bribery and influence
was also combined with resentment of other corporate misdeeds,
such as  Jay Gould ’s stock-market manipulations and  Andrew Carnegie ’s strike-breaking at the Homestead mill.  Ida Tarbell 
lavished poisonous ink on  John D. Rockefeller  and his Standard
Oil Co., which used its alliance with the railroads  to shut out
rivals .  Immigration Battle  Some  reformers  such as Jane Addams and Louis Brandeis
espoused conventional liberal views, favoring minimum wages,
maximum-hour laws and restrictions on child labor. Other bona
fide progressives, such as Teddy Roosevelt’s Bull Moose running
mate, Hiram Johnson, would find common cause with Tea Partiers
eager to get tough on illegal immigration. As governor of
 California , Johnson signed  the Alien Land Law  that prevented
“aliens ineligible for citizenship” from owning farmland.  In 1912, Roosevelt and Wilson served their country well by
providing alternative visions of reform.  Wilson, the Jeffersonian from  Virginia , favored a New
Freedom: “I have never found a man who knew how to take care of
me.” He wanted to  eliminate trusts , because “when I am fighting
monopolistic control, therefore, I am fighting for the liberty
of every man in America, and I am fighting for the liberty of
American industry.”  Influenced by Brandeis, Wilson wanted smaller corporations,
but he also wanted limited government, particularly lower
barriers to international trade: “The protective tariff has been
taken advantage of by some men to destroy domestic competition,
to combine all existing rivals within our free-trade area, and
to make it impossible for new men to come into the field.” As
president, Wilson greatly extended the government’s reach, but
in the campaign, he seemed to espouse almost libertarian
progressivism.  Teddy Roosevelt, the Hamiltonian from  New York , believed in
protective tariffs, as long as they were set by “a permanent
commission of nonpartisan experts.” He  thought that trusts  were
inevitable, and that they should be managed by “an inter-State
industrial commission, which should exercise full supervision
over the big industrial concerns doing an inter-State business
into which an element of monopoly enters.”  This was his New Nationalism, inspired by  Herbert Croly :
Big government would control business and retake the country
from the “special interests.” This vision would come to fruition
in the administration of his distant relative, Franklin, who
used the National Recovery Administration to control, not
dismantle, big business  President’s Commitment  Today, left and right hunger for change. The  Tea Party  Core
Belief No. 4 is that “special interests must be eliminated.”
They mean business interests as well as labor unions. The
Progressive Democrats of America similarly  seeks  a “government
controlled by citizens, not corporate elites -- with policies
that serve the broad public interest, not just private
interests.”  Obama began his presidency with a “ commitment  to making
government work for the people, not the special interests.” But
after the financial bailout and the health-care plan, many see
him as comfortably accommodating powerful industry groups. As
the Republican rival,  Mitt Romney  would like to be seen as
offering a clean sweep, but both his character and the situation
lead him to fixate on the economy, over which he as president
would possess only limited power.  What would a campaign of competing reform visions look
like?  Obama’s natural role is as heir to both Roosevelts, a
leader who wants to clean up government by making the public
sector more powerful. To claim his predecessors’ aegis, he needs
regulators both strong and smart enough to tame the banks. He
must demonstrate his own independence from traditional
Democratic interest groups, and show how his pet programs, such
as infrastructure spending, will tame “crony capitalism.”  Romney has more space to leap because his campaign has
never presented him as a reformer. He can plausibly argue that
less government can mean better, more honest government and
usher in a New Freedom. He can argue that health-care spending
enriches medical companies, and that infrastructure spending
only funnels cash to connected contractors.  If he doesn’t want a large regulatory bureaucracy
overseeing the financial sector, then he needs to embrace the
Brandeisian step of making sure that banks stay small enough so
they can fail, or find some credible alternative. He must
acknowledge the problems of undue influence, and then offer a
plausible form of libertarian progressivism.  Just as in 1912, the public sector needs to become more
effective and less wasteful. The current focus on jobs growth is
unfortunate because neither candidate can guarantee economic
expansion.  The country will be best served if both candidates deliver
credible visions, one emphasizing change through big government,
and the other delivering reform through limits on the public
sector. If Romney feels skittish wearing the reformer’s cloak,
he might remember that the victory in 1912 went to the candidate
promising small government, not the candidate of big government
or big business.  ( Edward Glaeser , an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: The editors on  the Bush family’s lessons for
Republicans  and  Jamie Dimon’s day in Congress ; Clive Crook on
 Spain’s pain and Merkel’s folly ;  Margaret Carlson   on the joys
and sorrows of being Jeb Bush ; Emi Nakamura on  how the U.S.
could become like Argentina ; Robert Hockett on  splitting Europe
in half .  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 