-- Obama Tells Donors His Economic Plan Best for Americans
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-06-13T01:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/obama-tells-donors-his-economic-program-best-for-most-americans.html
President  Barack Obama  told campaign
donors in a Baltimore suburb and Philadelphia that his policies
will give middle-income Americans the best chance to succeed in
a competitive economy.  Obama accused his Republican challenger, former
Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , of promoting a plan focused
on cutting funding for national priorities in education,
transportation and research.  “You’ll never see a sharper contrast between the two
parties in the vision that they have for where this country
needs to go,” Obama told a crowd of Democrats today at a
private home in Owings Mills, Maryland.  Obama is raising more than $3 million today in Maryland and
the battleground state of Pennsylvania, seeking to maintain a
cash advantage over Romney. He held six fundraisers, three in
each state, bringing to 160 the number of events to solicit cash
for his campaign since he declared his candidacy for re-election
on April 4, 2011.  Obama captured  Maryland , a reliably Democratic state, in
2008 with 62 percent of the vote. His victory in Pennsylvania
was narrower, at 54 percent, making it one of the targets for
Romney. After two months of slow job growth that left the
national  unemployment rate  at 8.2 percent in May, the economy is
at center stage in the election campaign.  Blame for Economy  “Anytime you have a bad economy, people tend to take it
out on the incumbent, whether it’s the incumbent’s fault or
not,” former Pennsylvania Governor  Ed Rendell , a Democrat, said
in a telephone interview. Obama topped Romney 48 percent to 36
percent in a poll released June 6 by Franklin & Marshall College
in Lancaster,  Pennsylvania .  “I don’t think it’s going to be that wide a margin, but I
think the president will carry” Pennsylvania by three or four
percentage points, Rendell said. “I wouldn’t put it in the
tossup category but I also wouldn’t put it in the definite”
category for Obama. “I’d say it’s ‘leaning.’”  The Obama and Romney campaigns have escalated the battle,
issuing fresh videos playing off the president’s statement on
June 8 that “the private sector is doing fine,” later amended
by Obama to it’s “absolutely clear that the economy is not
doing fine.”  Obama gave a low-key analysis today of his administration’s
efforts to speed up the recovery.  “We’ve been able to right the ship a little bit,” he told
supporters in Owings Mills.  Twitter Rhetoric  He dismissed Republican rhetoric on the economy by saying
it could be boiled down to fewer than the 140 characters allowed
in a post on Twitter.  “You can pretty much put their campaign on a tweet and
have characters to spare,” he said.  He said Romney, co-founder of the Bain Capital LLC private-
equity firm, should be “proud” of his business success. Still,
Obama said, the presumptive Republican nominee has drawn “the
wrong lesson from those experiences:” When those at the top of
the economic ladder are doing well it must mean everyone else is
too.  For more than a decade, the president said at a second
event in Baltimore, “harder work hasn’t led to higher income”
for many Americans.  Romney Campaigning  Romney was campaigning today in the swing state of  Florida ,
directing his attacks at the health-care law that Obama pushed
through Congress.  “Free enterprise is the way America works,” Romney told
owners of small businesses in  Orlando . “We need to apply that
to health care.”  Obama was raising money today after events in  California 
and  New York City  last week. He has fundraisers scheduled in
 Cleveland  and  New York  again on June 14.  Romney and the  Republican National Committee  said June 7
that they collected more than $76.8 million in May, surpassing
the more than $60 million reported by Obama and the  Democratic
Party . Through April, Obama’s re-election committee had more
than doubled the amount raised by Romney’s campaign, $222.3
million to $100.4 million.  Obama’s first stop today was a fundraising lunch at the
home of real estate developer Josh Fidler. Tickets for that
event, which drew about 100 supporters, ran from $10,000 to
$50,000. Later, he attended a fundraiser reception for about 500
people at the Hyatt Regency, where tickets ranged from $250 to
$10,000. A third event, closed to media coverage, was held with
15 supporters contributing $40,000 each.  Franklin Institute  In the evening in Philadelphia, Obama held three
fundraisers at the Franklin Institute. After a private
roundtable discussion with the president for about 25 supporters
contributing $40,000 each, he delivered remarks at a reception
with about 500 people, with tickets starting at $250. That was
followed by a dinner with 75 people, with tickets at $10,000 per
person.  During the reception in Philadelphia, Obama acknowledged
that the election will be close “because folks have gone
through a tough time” with unemployment and falling home
values.  “You’re still frustrated and rightly so,” he said, adding
that Romney and Republicans in Congress won’t offer any new
policies for spurring the economy. “You won’t see it. It will
be the same stuff.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Baltimore at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  