-- Obama Urges Commerce’s Bryson to Focus on Health After Seizure
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-06-12T18:43:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/obama-urges-commerce-s-bryson-to-focus-on-health-after-seizure.html
President  Barack Obama  urged
Commerce Secretary  John Bryson  to focus on his health, three
days after he was treated for a seizure following a series of
minor traffic accidents.  Obama spoke with Bryson today and said he should “focus
his thoughts on his own health, on his own family,”  Josh Earnest , a White House spokesman, told reporters traveling with
Obama today to a fundraiser near Baltimore.  Bryson, 68, was found unconscious in his Lexus about 5:10
p.m. Los Angeles time on June 9, after the second of two
collisions, police said. He had a seizure, went to a hospital
for observation and was back at work in  Washington  yesterday,
Jennifer Friedman, a U.S. Commerce Department spokeswoman, said
in a statement.  Bryson announced last night he was going on leave and
transferred his duties to Deputy Commerce Secretary  Rebecca Blank , an economist whom he named as acting secretary.  “Effective immediately I am taking a medical leave of
absence so that I can focus all of my attention on resolving the
health issues that arose over the weekend,” Bryson said in a
statement released by his office.  Blank, who served as acting commerce secretary prior to
Bryson’s confirmation, has Obama’s confidence to run the
department, Earnest said.  Bryson is undergoing tests to determine the cause of the
seizure, and will consult with doctors to determine when he can
return, said a Commerce Department official who requested
anonymity.  Possible Felony  The commerce secretary, whose agency has 47,000 employees
and a $7.5 billion budget, allegedly drove his car into the rear
of a stopped vehicle and five minutes later struck another car
two miles away, according to police. Police are investigating
the case as a possible felony hit-and-run, which can result in
at least a year in prison upon conviction, the police said.
Authorities tested his blood for alcohol, and said results are
pending.  “If they come back benign, there probably won’t be any
charges as far as the sheriff’s department is concerned,” Steve Whitmore, a  Los Angeles  County sheriff spokesman, said in an
interview. Bryson passed a breathalyzer test for alcohol at the
scene, Whitmore said.  San Gabriel Police also would probably forgo filing charges
if medical conditions contributed to the incident, said
Lieutenant Ariel Duran.  ‘Appeared Disoriented’  Bryson “appeared disoriented” after his car rear-ended a
Buick that had stopped to wait for a train to clear a four-lane
road east of  downtown Los Angeles  in San Gabriel, said police
officials, citing the occupants of the Buick. Bryson struck the
vehicle a second time as he left the scene, prompting the
Buick’s driver to follow and call the 911 emergency line.  After driving south for about 1.9 miles, Bryson struck a
Honda Accord in Rosemead,  California , about 5:10 p.m., causing
minor injuries to the passengers. He was found alone and
unconscious at the scene by police. There was no indication
alcohol or drugs were involved, police said.  A decision by the sheriff’s department against filing hit-
and-run charges may leave Bryson open to other penalties. In
California, a driver who has lapses of consciousness can have
his license revoked or suspended. Drivers can be placed on
probation, which lets the  Department of Motor Vehicles  monitor a
driver’s medical condition, according to the agency website.  ‘Medical Condition’  Bryson has told colleagues he never had a seizure before,
according the Commerce Department official. No medical concerns
arose during Bryson’s confirmation hearing, said  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat and chairman of the
Senate’s Committee on Commerce, Science & Transportation which
conducted the confirmation hearing.  “I’ve never heard of it,” Rockefeller said today in an
interview. “I’m very sad, and I hope that it’s just something
he can get treatment for. He’s the kind of person who works so
hard that the very idea of going and getting a checkup” might
not be a top priority.  Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Deputy Mark Pope said
authorities were told Bryson suffers from a medical condition
that is considered relevant by investigators. He said he had no
details of the condition and couldn’t say if it causes seizures.  Locke’s Successor  Bryson was in California, where he owns a house, to speak
at the June 7 commencement for the Polytechnic School in
 Pasadena , which his four children attended. Bryson and his wife,
Louise, have been board members, said Leslie Carmell, a
spokeswoman for the school.  Bryson became commerce secretary after  Gary Locke  took over
as U.S. ambassador to  China .  Blank served as acting secretary for several months last
year after Locke’s departure and before Bryson took office. She
has worked for the agency since 2009, when she was named under
secretary for economic affairs and head of the Economics and
Statistics Administration. ESA oversees the Census Bureau and
the  Bureau of Economic Analysis .  Prior to arriving at the Commerce Department, Blank was a
senior fellow at the Washington-based  Brookings Institution  and
dean of the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy at the
 University of Michigan . She has also been an economics professor
at  Northwestern University . She obtained a doctorate in
economics from the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology .  Bryson’s agency is under pressure to deliver on Obama’s
goal of doubling annual U.S. exports to $3.14 trillion by the
end of 2014 from $1.57 trillion in 2009, according to a White
House report to Congress last year.  Bryson joined  Edison International (EIX) , based in Rosemead and
owner of electric power generation facilities, in 1984 and was
named chairman and CEO in 1990. He retired in 2008. In September
2010, he became chairman of  BrightSource Energy Inc. (BRSE) , an
Oakland, California-based developer of solar-power plants. The
company tapped a $1.6 billion loan from the U.S. government in
2011 to build its Ivanpah project in the  Mojave Desert .  To contact the reporters on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  