-- Oil Rises From Eight-Month Low on Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-06-12T20:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/oil-rises-for-first-time-in-four-days.html
Oil rose from an eight-month low on
speculation that policy makers will do more to stimulate the
economy and on expectations that U.S. inventories dropped.  Prices gained 0.8 percent after Federal  Reserve Bank  of
Chicago President  Charles Evans  said he would support a variety
of measures to generate faster job growth. Oil supplies fell the
most in almost five months last week as refineries boosted
output, a government report may show tomorrow.  “There is a lot of political will to try to stem the
decline and no one wants to see things get worse,” said Jacob Correll, a Louisville, Kentucky-based analyst at Summit Energy
Inc., which manages more than $20 billion in companies’ annual
energy spending. “If refinery utilization rates stay high, then
you are definitely going to see a decent-sized draw.”  Oil for July delivery gained 62 cents to settle at $83.32 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures closed at
$82.70 yesterday, the lowest level since Oct. 6. Prices are down
16 percent this year.  Prices were little changed from the settlement after the
 American Petroleum Institute  reported oil inventories increased
1.59 million barrels to 385.7 million last week. Futures rose 70
cents, or 0.8 percent, to $83.40 a barrel at 4:35 p.m. in
electronic trading. They were at $83.40 before the report was
released at 4:30 p.m.  Brent oil for July settlement fell 86 cents, or 0.9
percent, to $97.14 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange.  Fed Meeting  “I’ve been in favor of pretty much any accommodative
policy I’ve heard about,” Evans said on Bloomberg Television’s
“In the Loop” with  Betty Liu  today. Extending the Twist, a
plan expiring this month that lengthens the average duration of
bonds in the Fed’s portfolio, “would be useful,” he said.  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  will meet
next week as slowing jobs growth at home and a deepening crisis
in Europe weigh on the economic outlook. Evans, who isn’t a
voting member of the FOMC this year, has been one of the most
vocal proponents of additional easing.  “The market is expecting more stimulus plans from the
Fed,” said Phil Streible, a Chicago-based commodities broker at
RJO Futures. “It’s still on the table.”  Oil  stockpiles  probably dropped 1.5 million barrels, or 0.4
percent, to 383.1 million in the seven days ended June 8,
according to the median of 12 analyst estimates in the Bloomberg
survey. The decline would be the biggest since Jan. 13.  U.S. refineries raised their  utilization rate  to 91 percent
in the week ended June 1, the most in 22 months. The rate may
have remained at the same level last week, the survey showed,
increasing gasoline stockpiles for a second time from the
smallest amount since November 2008.  OPEC Output  Oil fell earlier as  Fitch Ratings  downgraded 18 Spanish
banks and Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said OPEC may
need a higher output limit.  Fitch cited concerns on further loan deterioration,
especially banks with exposure to construction and real estate.
The rating agency said earlier that  Spain  will miss its budget-
deficit targets, pushing the country’s cost of borrowing to a
euro-era record.  “Fitch highlighted the financial turmoil that’s still
going on in Europe and clearly it’s not a good thing for the
market,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of commodities research at
IAF Advisors in Houston.  “Maybe” there is a need for higher group production from
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, al-Naimi said
yesterday in response to questions from reporters as the
minister arrived for the June 14 OPEC meeting in Vienna.  OPEC Negotiations  Al-Naimi’s comments came as  Iran  faces trade and financial
restrictions over its nuclear program, with the European Union
planning to embargo Iranian crude starting next month.  “The Saudis are sending an implicit message to the
Iranians that if you want to play the nuclear game, we have the
ability to drive  oil prices  even lower,” said  Stephen Schork ,
president of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,  Pennsylvania .  Demand for OPEC crude will be 30.92 million barrels a day
in the third quarter, and 30.55 million in the fourth quarter,
the group said in its monthly report released today. OPEC’s 12
members exceeded their collective quota by 1.58 million last
month, according to secondary sources surveyed by the group.  The U.S. Energy Department reduced its crude-oil price
projection for 2012 to $96.80 a barrel from $104.12 last month,
according to its monthly  Short-Term Energy Outlook , released
today. Futures have averaged $100.09 so far this year.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 534,117
contracts as of 4:33 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 649,691
contracts yesterday, 16 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.45 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  