-- Oil Drops Before OPEC Meeting, U.S. Crude Stockpile Data
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-06-13T07:10:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/oil-trades-near-two-day-high-on-stimulus-outlook-opec.html
Oil fluctuated in  New York  amid
speculation the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
will keep output quotas unchanged even after a slide in prices.  Futures were little changed after dropping as much as 0.8
percent. OPEC, which meets in Vienna tomorrow, said global oil
markets remain well-supplied even after its output fell in May
for the first time in eight months. A U.S. government report
today will show crude stockpiles shrank last week, according to
a Bloomberg News survey. The industry-funded American Petroleum
Institute yesterday said inventories rose  1.6 million barrels .  “OPEC’s output is a very significant feature of the oil
market and has the potential to make quite significant changes
to supply and impact prices,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market
analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. “The consensus view is that
at current prices it’s not too likely that we’ll get any public
announcement on production-quota cuts.”  Oil for July delivery was down 9 cents at $83.23 a barrel
in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at
2:55 p.m. in Singapore. It earlier dropped as much as 69 cents
to $82.63 a barrel. Yesterday, futures rose 0.8 percent to
$83.32. Prices are down 16 percent this year.  Brent crude  for July settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange, which expires tomorrow, was 34 cents
higher at $97.48 a barrel. The European benchmark grade was at a
 premium  of $14.23 to New York crude from $13.82 yesterday, the
lowest since May 5. The more actively traded Brent future for
August was up 20 cents at $97.17.  OPEC Supply  OPEC, responsible for about 40 percent of global oil
supplies, pumped 31.58 million barrels a day last month, the 12-
member group’s secretariat said in its Monthly Oil Market Report
yesterday. That’s down from 31.64 million in April and exceeds
its quota of 30 million agreed on in December.  Saudi Arabia ,  Kuwait , Qatar and the  United Arab Emirates 
would like to raise the output ceiling by 500,000 barrels a day,
an OPEC delegate said yesterday, declining to be identified
because member countries are still in talks.  Iran , facing a
European Union embargo on its oil exports from July 1, and
 Venezuela  have been joined by Iraq and  Angola  in warning that
supplies are excessive.  OPEC will keep its official production ceiling at 30
million barrels a day, according to all 20 traders and analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News last week. A decision to adjust
output will depend on findings from the group’s economic
committee, Iraq’s Oil Minister Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi said in an
interview yesterday.  ‘Death Cross’  “Demand has been incredibly weak,” said Dominic Schnider,
the global head of commodity research at UBS AG’s wealth-
management unit in  Singapore . Boosting supply “will really be
the wrong signal.”  Oil in New York fell after a bearish “death cross” formed
on the daily technical chart, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The 50-day moving average, at $96 a barrel today,
dropped below the 200-day mean at $96.41 for the first time
since December. Investors typically sell contracts when the
moving average for a shorter period falls below a longer one.  U.S. crude stockpiles climbed to 385.7 million barrels last
week, the API data showed. An Energy Department report today may
show supplies decreased 1.5 million barrels, according to the
median estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Gasoline inventories fell 878,000 barrels, the API said.
They are forecast to rise  1.4 million barrels , the survey
showed. Distillate stockpiles, a category that includes diesel
and heating oil, increased 519,000 barrels compared with a
projected 1.2 million-barrel gain in the government report.  U.S. gasoline demand will average 8.69 million barrels a
day this year, the Energy Department said in its monthly Short-
Term Energy Outlook yesterday. That’s up from last month’s
projection of 8.67 million barrels. The department also cut its
estimate for regular-grade gasoline at the pump to an average of
$3.56 a gallon, down from $3.71.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  