-- Oklahoma Rancher in Russia Threatens U.S. Beef Exports
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2012-06-13T15:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/oklahoma-rancher-in-russia-threatens-u-s-beef-exports.html
Anthony Stidham, a 48-year-old
third-generation rancher from  Oklahoma , is at the forefront of
President  Vladimir Putin ’s plan to cut  Russia ’s $3 billion
annual bill as the world’s  biggest  beef importer.  At the country’s largest beef farm about 400 kilometers
(250 miles) southwest of Moscow, Stidham is passing on cattle-
rearing skills to locals in a drive toward self-sufficiency
that’s already involved shipping in about 60,000 Aberdeen Angus
cattle from the U.S. and Australia.  With incomes rising and beef sales set to increase, Russia
has been cutting import quotas to revive a cattle-breeding
tradition decimated under the rule of dictator  Joseph Stalin .
Putin wants the country to meet 85 percent of its meat and
poultry needs by 2020, threatening to curtail sales by  Tyson
Foods Inc. (TSN)  of Springdale,  Arkansas , and  Brasil Foods  SA.  “There’s no place in the U.S., Australia or anywhere in
the world that will have cattle as good as what they are putting
together here,” said Stidham, recruited from Ada, Oklahoma,
after answering an advertisement in a farming publication.  At least 30 steakhouses have sprung up in Moscow since
2004, according to the Federation of Restaurateurs and
Hoteliers, attracted by a growing middle class and average wages
that have tripled. A ribeye steak at Goodman, Russia’s largest
steakhouse chain, costs 1,480 rubles ($45).  Miratorg Agribusiness Holding , the country’s biggest meat
importer, received state support to start the $800 million farm
project in Bryansk. Set up by brothers Alexander and Viktor Linnik in 1995, the company became Russia’s largest pork
producer in 2010 and has also moved into poultry. It sold 3
billion rubles of bonds last year and may sell more this year,
Chief Financial Officer Vadim Kotenko said. An initial share
sale is also being considered.  Extreme Temperatures  The imported Aberdeen Angus, a Scottish breed of hornless
black beef cattle, have had to cope with winter temperatures
that can plummet as low as minus 35 degrees Celsius (minus 31
Fahrenheit) after making the four-week journey by sea and road
from the U.S. and  Australia .  “This breed can adapt perfectly to any climate, it just
grows as much hair as needed in a certain temperature and then
passes on this genetic trait to calves,” Kotenko said in an
interview.  At Bryansk, the plan is to almost double the size of the
parent herd by the end of 2013. With new calves, the integrated
operation, which involves slaughterhouses to meat-processing
facilities, will expand more than fourfold to 250,000 by 2014.
It will be able to produce 104,000 meat bulls a year and supply
30,000 metric tons of boneless beef to the market.  ‘Too Risky’  “The production cycle takes 40 days for poultry, six
months for pork and a whole 16 months for beef, which makes it
the most capital-intensive,” Kotenko said. “We’ve been working
on a feasibility study for two years, and at least five banks
declined to fund the beef project, labeling it too risky.”  Bankers had cause for concern. In the U.S. and other
developed countries, beef consumption has been declining since
the mid-1970s in favor of cheaper pork and poultry, according to
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . Russia consumes only 17
kilograms of beef per capita a year, or half the U.S.
equivalent, and domestic consumption is set to rise, according
to the Moscow-based National Meat Association.  VEB, Russia’s state development bank, agreed in 2010 when
Putin was its chairman to finance Miratorg’s beef project, which
also benefits from state subsidies. Beef imports are subject to
quotas as Putin seeks to shore up domestic production to reduce
dependence on imports.  Bond Yield  Miratorg’s 2014 ruble bonds yielded 13.3 percent today in
Moscow.  OAO Cherkizovo Group (CHE)  and  Ros Agro Plc (AGRO)  are among other
Russian producers to have invested in domestic meat output to
replace imports, focusing on poultry and pork. On a recent visit
to Bryansk, Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  was photographed in
conversation with a U.S. rancher and his family.  “This can be seen as the first step for the Russian cattle
industry to regain its lost position,” said Albert Vernooij, an
industry analyst at Rabobank International in the Netherlands.
“However, with strong competition for land and continuing high
feed costs, this might be a long process.”  Russia purchased 1.1 million tons of beef and veal from
abroad last year, according to USDA data, the equivalent of
about 3.3 million fattened steers. Beef imports were valued at
$2.6 billion in 2011, according to the National Meat
Association, making up about 33 percent of domestic consumption.  The Tsarist tradition of breeding meat cattle was lost when
Stalin enforced a drive toward collective farms in the 1930s,
according to Sergei Yushin, head of Russia’s meat lobby. The
country has mainly slaughtered retired dairy cows for meat since
that time.  Better Cuts  “A steak out of a 7-year-old milk cow is tough and thin,”
said Igor Bukharov, president of the Federation of Restaurateurs
and Hoteliers.  Only in the 1990s with the fall of the  Soviet Union , when
Russia started importing beef from  New Zealand ,  Argentina  and
the U.S., did its citizens acquire a taste for better cuts, said
Bukharov.  Miratorg runs 16 beef farms around Bryansk that are set to
rise to 33 by the end of 2013, in addition to three in
Kaliningrad on the  Baltic Sea . Each operation has about 3,000
breeding cows. Stidham, one of 10 U.S. ranchers employed at
Bryansk, said his students are willing to work around the clock.  “A lot of them had never pulled the calf when the cow was
having trouble,” he said, referring to the birthing process.
“And just the excitement they have when they see the brand new
calf, that they helped save its life.”  Tyson Foods, Brasil Foods, Cargill Inc. and  JBS SA (JBSS3)  are
among the biggest suppliers of beef to Russia, according to the
 U.S. Meat Export Federation . Russia distributes import quotas to
domestic companies including Miratorg that obtain supplies from
abroad. Foreign producers stand to lose out as the domestic
industry expands to meet local consumption.  As the example of Bryansk is replicated elsewhere in
Russia, the hope is one day the country will be able to export
beef for the first time.  “Russia has all opportunities to be a big beef exporter in
10 to 15 years,” Kotenko said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net 
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net . 