-- Olisadebe Says Beat Racists to Become Polish Soccer Pioneer
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-06-12T13:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/olisadebe-says-he-beat-racists-to-become-polish-soccer-pioneer.html
Growing up as a soccer-loving
schoolboy in  Nigeria , Emmanuel Olisadebe was unaware of racism
until he signed a professional contract in Poland. The country’s
co-hosting of the European Championship serves as a reminder.  Olisadebe, 34, arrived in Warsaw as an unproven talent from
Nigeria’s youth squad. He was fast-tracked for citizenship to
become the first black player to represent Poland and scored
eight goals to help it qualify for the 2002  World Cup , the
team’s first global championship appearance in 16 years.  Before being lauded for his goalscoring, Olisadebe said he
was regularly abused by fans and even teammates because of his
skin color. The issue is back on the agenda as Poland co-hosts
Euro 2012 with Ukraine. Netherlands captain Mark Van Bommel said
that black players were subjected to racial taunts at the team’s
June 6 open training session in Krakow, prompting tournament
organizer UEFA to  call on local authorities  to increase police
presence at such events to prevent a repeat.  “We don’t have this education about such things, not too
many of us are aware of racism in general,” Olisadebe said in
an interview in Warsaw. “So when you come here and see
different people you believe they love you in the way you love
them. But as time goes on you realize it’s different.”  According to players’ union  FIFPro , Russian supporters
aimed racist insults at Czech Republic defender Theodor Gebre
Selassie, the team’s only black player, during the June 8 game
between the Czechs and  Russia  in Wroclaw. Two days later in
Gdansk, Italy striker  Mario Balotelli  was abused by fans of the
Spanish national team, the  Daily Mirror   reported .  UEFA Investigation  European soccer ruling body UEFA said in an e-mail it is
investigating whether there was alleged racing chanting at the
games after receiving “new independent information.”  “Everybody is upset about individual cases,” Beata Stelmach, Poland’s deputy foreign affairs minister, said in an
interview. “There are only a few people. But having this
opportunity that we have an international event, we should talk
about this problem worldwide.”  Poland’s population of 38 million is 94 percent ethnically
Polish, according to its central statistics office. The majority
of the rest are German, Ukrainian, Belorussian and Lithuanian.
While Olisadebe was among the country’s black soccer pioneers,
130 Africans are now contracted to Polish professional teams,
said Piara Powar, executive director of the  Football Against
Racism in Europe  network.  Bananas From Stands  Olisadebe married a Polish woman during his four-year spell
with Polonia Warsaw. He joined Greek club Panathinaikos in 2001
and remains in  Greece  playing for Veria, which last season won
promotion to the country’s elite league.  Memories of bananas raining down on him from the stands and
monkey noises being directed his way still linger, he said.  “At first you feel it’s sad, really sad,” Olisadebe said.
“Sad like, ‘why do they feel they are different from me?’ It’s
not only that you feel ‘I’m different from you’, but you feel
‘I’m less than you.’ It’s difficult to explain in words.”  Justin Nnorom, another Nigerian player who moved to Poland
at the same time as Olisadebe, said family and friends in  Africa 
had no idea where the duo were moving.  “We’d tell people we’re coming to  Poland . ‘Holland?’
they’d say,” Nnorom, 35, said in an interview. “Both of us
coming to Poland, and Emmanuel playing for the national team --
now when you say Poland nobody is surprised.”  After Olisadebe helped Polonia Warsaw win its second league
championship, then-national team coach Jerzy Engel pushed for
the striker to be granted Polish citizenship.  Goal Assist  The move wasn’t universally welcomed, said Olisadebe, with
some fans and fellow players opposed to having a Nigeria-born
player in their ranks. The protests subsided when Olisadebe
started scoring, including the second goal in a 3-0 home victory
over  Norway  that secured Poland’s spot at the 2002 World Cup in
 Japan  and  South Korea .  “That helped us,” Olisadebe said. “They were like ‘let
this one go through.’ It’s all been love since then.”  While a May 28 British Broadcasting Corp. documentary
showed racism and anti-Semitic behavior by fans in some stadiums
in Poland and Ukraine, Olisadebe said the situation has improved
from his playing days and he wouldn’t discourage Africans from
joining Polish teams.  “There’s nothing to be scared of,” he said. “They’ll
abuse you, but at the end of the day you know what you want and
you work towards it. There are other obstacles along the way
other than racism. Racism is just one part of it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  