-- Olympic Pinch May See 30,000 Commuters Avoid Canary Wharf
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-06-12T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/olympic-pinch-may-see-30-000-commuters-avoid-canary-wharf-banks.html
Financial-services firms in  Canary
Wharf  say they expect a third of their staff to stay home or
travel outside peak hours when spectators begin piling on to
east London’s transport network to get to the  Olympic Games .  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s largest bank, estimates more
than 30 percent of about 8,500 staff at its Canary Wharf head
office may work remotely during the games, which run from July
27 to August 12. Citigroup Inc. also expects about 30 percent of
employees to work from home, take holidays or work alternative
hours. Both banks occupy skyscrapers at Canary Wharf, where
about 100,000 people work in London’s second financial district.  For much of the U.K. capital, the most direct way to both
Canary Wharf and the Games is the London Underground’s Jubilee
line. The Transport for London transit agency has identified
“pinch point” days where events at the Olympic Park in nearby
Stratford will boost congestion, said John Garwood, group
company secretary of Canary Wharf Group Plc, which developed and
manages most of the district’s buildings.  “Canary Wharf is open normally for business, and we’re
kitted up to deal with how many people are here,” Garwood said.  The Canary Wharf subway stop is surrounded by headquarters
of U.S. and European securities firms, including at least 8,000
Citigroup staff as well as workers at Morgan Stanley and  Credit
Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)  For more than five days, the station is
expected to be “particularly busy,” Transport for London
spokeswoman Susan Golaszewski said.  Free Transport  Each of the 8.8 million Olympic tickets grants the holder
free public transport on the day of the event. The congestion
would be worse if London’s banks were still booming. Employment
at securities firms is shrinking as the U.K. slumped into its
first double-dip recession since the 1970s in the first quarter.  About 320,000 visitors will converge on the city during the
Olympics, surpassing the 250,000 visitors to Barcelona for the
1992 games and  Athens ’ 150,000 tourists in 2004, according to a
study by researcher Oxford Economics Ltd. The number of trips
taken on subways, buses and trains will rise by 25 percent to 15
million a day during the Olympics, Transport for London says.  Officials for  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Credit Suisse in London
declined to comment.  Barclays (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-largest bank by
assets, is headquartered in a 32-story Canary Wharf tower that
also houses the London 2012 Games’ organizers. The lender has
made continuity plans for the Olympic period, according to a
spokesman for the bank, who declined to elaborate further.  Summer Holidays  Transport for London urged commuters to Canary Wharf, which
is less than 3 miles (5 kilometers) from the Olympic stadium, to
choose earlier or later travel times.  “Staff who must come to Canary Wharf are advised to retime
their journeys, rearrange any non-critical meetings and consider
alternative ways of getting to the office,” said Nick Emery of
 Citigroup (C) ’s business contingency team in London. “The idea
behind the 30 percent reduction is to free up capacity on the
transport networks. If all businesses on the Wharf do similar,
then we can reduce the numbers travelling by over 30,000.”  As many as 20,000 workers usually leave the financial
district for their summer holidays, according to Canary Wharf
Group’s Garwood. That figure is likely to increase during the
Games, he said.  “The vast majority of our staff have had the technology to
work remotely for a number of years,” HSBC spokesman Mark Hemingway said by e-mail. “We would expect a large percentage
of our Canary Wharf staff to either use this remote working
facility, or simply change their working hours during the
Olympic period.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in  London  at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  