-- Hong Kong Pledges Currency Peg After Yam Urges Review
-- B y   F i o n   L i   a n d   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2012-06-13T01:53:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/hong-kong-pledges-currency-peg-after-yam-urges-review.html
Hong Kong ’s incoming leader,
financial secretary and top central banker all pledged their
commitment to the city’s currency peg after former monetary
chief  Joseph Yam  called for a review of the link to the dollar.  Hong Kong Monetary Authority Chief Executive  Norman Chan ,
who succeeded Yam in October 2009, said yesterday in a joint
statement with Financial Secretary  John Tsang  that the
government is “fully committed” to the peg and has no
intention to change it. The city’s Chief Executive-elect Leung
Chun-ying, who begins a five-year term on July 1, also said
there are no plans to adjust the link.  Yam is the most senior serving or former Hong Kong official
to speculate on changes to the 29-year-old currency link and
Tsang told a press briefing he was “surprised” by the comments.
The  Hong Kong dollar  rose as much as 0.06 percent to HK$7.7535
versus the greenback yesterday in the city after Yam’s call for
a review of the system, before closing little changed at
HK$7.7586. It was unchanged today as of 9:44 a.m. local time.  “Given Yam is the former chief, these remarks have
significant implications and deserve serious attention,” said
Raymond Yeung, a Hong Kong-based economist at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  Yam returned to the public spotlight when he supported
Leung’s rival, Henry Tang, in a March leadership contest. On
June 7, he dismissed a Legislative Council subcommittee report
that he held ultimate responsibility for the mis-selling of
financial products linked to Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
which led to losses for locals when the bank collapsed in 2008.  Yuan  Peg?  Options put forward by Yam included a shift to a peg
against the yuan, a widening of the trading band versus the
dollar and a “corridor” whose width, slope and center could be
periodically reviewed. The latter system could be managed
against the dollar, yuan or a basket of currencies, he said.  Twelve-month forwards weakened 0.06 percent to HK$7.7503
versus the U.S. currency today in Hong Kong, after gaining a
similar amount yesterday. The contracts, which are 0.11 percent
stronger than the spot rate, reflect differences in  interest
rates  for the two currencies as well as expectations for moves
in the exchange rate.  “There is a need to address the question as to whether the
monetary system of Hong Kong, as currently structured, can
continue to serve the public interest of Hong Kong,” Yam wrote
in an  academic paper  titled “The Future of the Monetary System
of Hong Kong” that was released yesterday. He said his decision
to address the topic at this time “should not necessarily imply
the need for change.”  Nothing New  The paper published by Yam, who is an honorary professor of
The Chinese University of Hong Kong’s business school,
“contains nothing particularly new,” Tsang said at a press
briefing yesterday.  The  International Monetary Fund  said it had looked “very
carefully” at the exchange-rate system when conducting its most
recent annual assessment of Hong Kong’s economy in December.  The system is “simple, credible, transparent, is widely
understood, and merits continued support,” according to an
emailed statement.  The Hong Kong dollar peg was adopted in 1983, when
negotiations between  China  and the U.K. over returning the city
to Chinese control triggered capital outflows. Since then, the
city’s currency has been kept at about HK$7.8 per dollar. In
2005, policy makers committed to limiting the currency’s decline
to HK$7.85 per dollar and capping gains at HK$7.75.  Yuan Convertibility  China ended its own peg to the dollar in July 2005, saying
it would manage the  exchange rate  against a basket of currencies,
and the yuan has strengthened 30 percent versus the greenback in
that time.  Hong Kong’s current leader,  Donald Tsang , said in November
the city’s existing exchange-rate system would stay at least
until the yuan becomes fully convertible. Chinese officials told
European Union business executives that the yuan will achieve
“full convertibility” by 2015, EU Chamber of Commerce in China
President Davide Cucino said on Sept. 7.  There has been talk about whether Hong Kong should scrap
the peg or re-peg to the yuan, as the current fixed exchange
rate means the city’s monetary policy is largely dictated by the
U.S., where a jobless rate of 8.2 percent has led the  Federal
Reserve  to pledge near-zero interest rates through 2014. Hong
Kong’s home prices have gained more than 80 percent since early
2009, supported by record-low  mortgage rates .  Higher Volatility  With the dollar peg, Hong Kong has “inherently a higher
degree of volatility in economic activities and in domestic
prices,” Yam wrote in his paper. The city’s inflation has been
“widely recognized” as uncomfortably high and asset bubbles
have been a feature, he noted. Yam supported Leung’s rival,
 Henry Tang , in a March leadership contest.  HSBC Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  and his
counterpart at the Bank of East Asia Ltd., David Li, said in
August 2011 that any shift could be to a link with a basket of
currencies. Such a system is employed by  Singapore , whose dollar
has strengthened 1.1 percent versus the greenback this year.  William Ackman , founder of hedge fund Pershing Square
Capital Management LP, said in September he’d placed a wager
that would profit if Hong Kong allows its currency to appreciate
against the dollar to curb inflation. The easiest way for the
authorities to allow the currency to appreciate would be to
change the peg to HK$6 per  U.S. dollar , a 29 percent gain, and
then link to the yuan over three to six years, he said at a
conference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  