-- Mortgages Beating Junk Bonds as Homes Top Europe
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-06-12T09:22:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/mortgages-beating-junk-bonds-as-homes-top-europe.html
Bonds tied to U.S. residential
mortgages without government backing, the impetus for the last
financial crisis, are weathering  Europe ’s sovereign-debt strains
better than speculative-grade company debt and stocks after
their biggest annual losses since 2008.  The $1.1 trillion market is holding onto gains in June
after returning 0.53 percent in May for the fifth straight
monthly increase, according to Amherst Securities Group LP.
Junk-rated corporate bonds are little changed this month after
losing 1.2 percent in May, and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
has lost 6.7 percent this quarter.  As Europe’s escalating crisis threatens to derail a global
economic recovery, non-agency mortgage securities are being
buoyed by signs that property prices have stabilized after the
 biggest crash  since the 1930s. Government programs may support
further gains in housing, and relatively cheap mortgage bonds
have lured new investors while limiting price swings, said
Angelo Gordon & Co.’s Jonathan Lieberman.  “We’re the best suit in a closet full of dirty suits at
the moment,” said Lieberman, head of residential mortgage
securities at the New York-based investment firm, which oversees
about $24 billion. “The final piece to the puzzle is definitely
fund flows.”  Luring Funds  So-called non-agency mortgage securities, which lack
guarantees from government-supported  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac
or U.S.-owned Ginnie Mae, gained 10.5 percent in the first five
months of 2012 after losing 6.9 percent last year, according to
Amherst. U.S. speculative-grade company bonds, coming off gains
of 4.4 percent in 2011, are up 0.2 percent this month, with
gains of 5.2 percent in 2012, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show.  Last year’s losses lured new funds to invest in mortgages
created by managers including Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Cerberus
Capital Management LP and Canyon Partners LLC., often in pools
with longer investment horizons than mutual funds. Insurers
including American International Group Inc. also added the debt
to portfolios.  Elsewhere in credit markets, AT&T Inc. sold $2 billion of
notes to lead U.S. corporate bonds sales to the busiest start to
a week since April. JPMorgan Chase & Co. said it will redeem $9
billion of trust-preferred securities next month amid changes in
rules that will phase out banks’ ability to include the
securities as a portion of their capital. BAA Ltd., the owner of
London’s  Heathrow Airport , obtained 2.75 billion pounds ($4.3
billion) of loans to refinance debt maturing next year.  Swap Spreads  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, fell 0.07 basis point to 30.37 basis points,
the lowest level since May 7. The gauge, which has declined from
a four-month high of 39.13 on May 15, narrows when investors
favor assets such as corporate bonds and widens when they seek
the perceived safety of  government securities .  The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. rose, with the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index, which investors use to hedge against losses or to
speculate on creditworthiness, rising 4 basis points to a mid-
price of 124.6 basis points, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. The index reached 127.5 on June 4, the highest since
Dec. 19.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings was little changed at 179 basis points
at 10:20 a.m. in London, while the Markit iTraxx Asia index of
40 investment-grade borrowers outside  Japan  climbed 4.5 basis
points to 191.5 basis points.  Most Active  The indexes typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Bonds of Fairfield, Connecticut-based General Electric Co.
were the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers, with 181 trades of $1 million or more,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The offering by AT&T, the largest U.S. phone company, led
$6.9 billion of bond sales in the best opening for a week since
April 2, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Dallas-based company split its offering between $1.15
billion of 1.7 percent, five-year notes that yield 105 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries and $850 million of
3 percent, 10-year bonds sold in a re-opening that priced at a
spread of 135 basis points.  TruPS Redemption  JPMorgan said it will redeem the trust-preferred
securities, or TruPS, on July 12 following the  Federal Reserve ’s
June 7 release of capital rules being mandated under the Dodd-
Frank financial-overhaul law, according to a statement today
from the New York-based bank.  About $30 billion of TruPS, which combine characteristics
of debt and equity, may be subject to early redemption after the
release of the rules, JPMorgan bank analysts Kabir Caprihan and
Matthew Hughart wrote in a note last week.  The  S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index  rose for a
fourth day, gaining 0.1 cent to 92.42 cents on the dollar. The
measure, which tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-
lien leveraged loans, has climbed from a five-month low of 91.8
on June 5.  Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at S&P.  Emerging Markets  The BAA financing includes a five-year, 2 billion-pound
revolving credit, split among a 1.5 billion class A portion, a
400 million-pound class B piece and a 100 million-pound working
capital facility, according to a statement. The class A loan
pays interest of 150 basis points more than the  London  interbank
offered rate and the class B pays 225 basis points more than
Libor, the company said.  The loans, which mature in 2017, will replace a similar
facility signed in 2008 and due in August 2013, BAA said.  In  emerging markets , relative yields widened 3 basis points
to 401 basis points, or 4.01 percentage points, according to
 JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index . The index reached 440.6 on June 1,
the widest since Jan. 13.  The market for non-agency home-loan securities shrank to
$1.05 trillion on March 31, from a record $2.32 trillion in mid-
2007, quarterly Fed data released June 7 show. The underlying
loans range from so-called subprime notes to borrowers with weak
credit and option adjustable-rate mortgages, which allow for
homeowners to increase their balances, to jumbo loans that are
too large for government programs.  ‘Dry Powder’  The debt, which helped fuel the 2007-2009 global financial
crisis, is attracting investors such as the U.S. Housing
Recovery Fund started in April by Goldman Sachs.  Goldman Sachs has raised at least $128 million for the
fund, according to a May 14 securities filing. The “dry
powder” available to all managers of closed-end private real-
estate funds that focus on debt investments stood at $26 billion
as of March 31,  according  to London-based research firm Preqin
Ltd.  Almost 60 percent of investors surveyed by JPMorgan last
week said they expected yields on non-agency securities relative
to benchmark rates to be lower in six months. Those who
anticipated spreads to narrow more than 100 basis points dropped
to less than 10 percent, from 20 percent in a May poll.  AIG Buys  “When I talk to a lot of my hedge-fund clients and many of
the billionaires I manage money for, they say every single day
it seems somebody comes through and says, ‘Buy a bunch of
subprime-mortgage garbage, throw it in a shoe box and open it in
three years and you’ll get 12 percent,’” DoubleLine Capital LP
Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Gundlach  said at a May 17
conference.  The growth of the DoubleLine Total Return Fund has added to
demand. Its assets have risen to $26.6 billion from $15.2
billion at the end of 2011, when it returned 9.5 percent to beat
all of its peers. The share of holdings attributed to non-agency
debt was 33.4 percent as of April 31, according to the firm’s
 website .  AIG increased the non-agency holdings of its $250 billion
bond portfolio to $20.1 billion as of March 31, from $10 billion
at the end of 2010, according to regulatory filings. Andrea Raphael, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs, and Jim Ankner of AIG
declined to comment. Both companies are based in  New York .  Shrinking Markets  In the corporate junk-bond market, $3.6 billion was pulled
from mutual funds that buy that debt in the week ended June 6,
the biggest weekly outflow since August 2011. The withdrawals
forced sales that depressed prices even with inflows this year
still at $18.5 billion, EPFR Global data show.  Senior-ranked subprime bonds created in 2005 through 2007
returned 0.82 percent this month through last week, according to
Barclays Plc index data. Typical prices for similar securities
tied to so-called option adjustable-rate mortgages were
unchanged last week at 55 cents on the dollar, after falling
from a 10-month high of 58 cents in early May, Barclays data
show.  High-yield company notes gained 0.03 percent through June
8, according to Bank of America’s U.S. High Yield Master II
Index. Commercial-mortgage securities, which lost 0.23 percent
last month, are up 0.16 percent in June, the bank’s CMBS Fixed
Rate Index shows. Government-backed mortgage securities lost
0.08 percent in June through last week after gaining 0.33
percent in May, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Mortgage Master Index.  Government Support  During the 12 months ended March, home values in 20 U.S.
cities fell at the slowest pace in more than a year. The
 S&P/Case-Shiller index  of property values fell 2.6 percent from
a year earlier after a 3.5 percent drop in the period ended
February. The decline reported May 29 matched the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, and the index
rose from the prior month on a seasonally adjusted basis.  A variety of actions by the government also are all
providing a better back-drop for the securities, Angelo Gordon’s
Lieberman said.  They include a program to help “underwater” borrowers
refinance Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  loans to lower payments and
avoid default, as well as consideration of bulk sales of
properties seized by the companies to firms that would rent
them, reducing distressed supply, he said. A settlement between
state and federal authorities and loan servicers over
foreclosure practices also is supporting the market after the
probe slowed liquidations of bad loans, he said.  While Gundlach criticized how some rivals analyze the
securities at the event last month for Bloomberg LP customers in
New York, he said the bonds pair well with government-backed
mortgage notes and that the prices are “low enough” to offer
solid returns on their own even if the economy sours.  “You can still walk away with 5 percent to 7 percent if
that Depression-case happens,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  