-- Los Angeles Gasoline Advances as Exxon Repairs Hydrotreater Line
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-06-12T21:23:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/los-angeles-gasoline-advances-as-exxon-repairs-hydrotreater-line.html
California-blend gasoline in  Los
Angeles  gained after  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  was said to be repairing
a hydrotreater line at the Torrance refinery in  Southern
California  after a leak ignited a fire at the unit yesterday.  A contractor was repairing a light gasoil feed line to the
hydrotreater at the 150,000-barrel-a-day refinery following the
fire yesterday, a person familiar with operations there said.
Gesuina Paras, an Exxon spokeswoman at the plant, declined in an
e-mail to comment on the details of the blaze.  “The cause of the event is under investigation,” she
said. “There was no impact to production and no injuries to
personnel.”  The discount for California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in
Los Angeles narrowed 0.75 cent to 5.25 cents a gallon against
futures traded on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange at 4:14 p.m.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fuel weakened 2.5
cents yesterday after  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  finished planned work at the
97,000-barrel-a-day Los Angeles refinery.  Carbob in  San Francisco  dropped 3 cents to 5 cents a gallon
below gasoline futures on speculation that supplies of the motor
fuel increased last week.  Gasoline inventories  on the U.S. West Coast, known as the
Padd 5 region, rose by the most since January, jumping 5 percent
to 27 million barrels in the week ended June 8, according to the
 American Petroleum Institute .  California-blend, or CARB, diesel in Los Angeles slipped
0.25 cent to a 4.25-cent-a-gallon premium against Nymex heating
oil futures. The same fuel in San Francisco was unchanged at a
6.5-cent premium.  The discount for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in
 Portland ,  Oregon , widened 2 cents to 7 cents a gallon below
futures. Low-sulfur diesel in Portland gained 2 cents to a
premium of 5 cents a gallon versus heating oil futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  