-- House of Dimon Marred by CEO Complacency Over Unit’s Risk
-- B y   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r ,   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-06-12T22:45:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/house-of-dimon-marred-by-ceo-complacency-over-unit-s-risk.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  could have
spotted trouble at its chief investment office long before
traders there racked up at least $2 billion in losses. One
reason it didn’t: Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon.  Dimon treated the CIO differently from other JPMorgan
 departments , exempting it from the rigorous scrutiny he applied
to risk management in the investment bank, according to two
people who have worked at the highest executive levels of the
firm and have direct knowledge of the matter. When some of his
most senior advisers, including the heads of the investment
bank, raised concerns about the lack of transparency and quality
of internal controls in the CIO, Dimon brushed them off, said
one of the people, who asked not to be identified because the
discussions were private.  Dimon’s actions contrast with his reputation as a risk-
averse manager who demands regular and exhaustive reviews of
every corner of the bank. While Dimon has said he didn’t know
how dangerous bets inside the CIO had become, the loss on those
trades calls into question whether anyone can manage a financial
empire as vast as JPMorgan, which became the biggest U.S. lender
last year and now has more than $2.3 trillion in assets, larger
than the economies of Brazil or the U.K.  “These institutions are too big to manage because even the
bank that was considered to be the best-managed turns out to
have had a significant glitch,” said  Gary Stern , a former
president and CEO of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis and
co-author of the 2004 book “Too Big to Fail: The Hazards of
Bank Bailouts.”  Testifying Tomorrow  The trading breakdown has undermined Dimon’s authority as a
critic of regulatory efforts to curb speculation by deposit-
taking banks, and triggered government probes in the U.S. and
the U.K. It also cost Chief Investment Officer Ina R. Drew, one
of the most powerful women on  Wall Street , her job. JPMorgan
shareholders saw about $30 billion of market value wiped out
through yesterday since Dimon disclosed the loss.  Dimon may have to account for his decisions as soon as
tomorrow, when he’s scheduled to testify about JPMorgan’s
trading loss before a Senate committee in Washington. The
senators, led by South Dakota Democrat  Tim Johnson , may ask
Dimon why he didn’t ensure that the chief investment office’s
risk managers kept pace with the nature of the unit’s business.  Dimon, 56, declined to comment for this article. In remarks
prepared for tomorrow’s hearing, he said the CIO “should have
gotten more scrutiny from both senior management and the
firmwide risk-control function.”  Limits Ignored  The bank’s “fortress balance sheet remains intact,” and
the company will be profitable this quarter, he said.  The CIO’s mission includes investing deposits the bank
hasn’t loaned. Over the past four years, assets controlled by
the unit ballooned fivefold to $374.6 billion in the first
quarter, making it one of the largest money managers on Wall
Street. Yet the unit was ill-equipped to handle the size and
complexity of its credit-derivative portfolio, according to two
former CIO executives and one current executive.  As Dimon encouraged the CIO to take more risk in search of
profits, the unit raised limits on positions and sometimes
ignored them, the former executives said.  London Whale  At the same time, the position of chief risk officer inside
the CIO was a revolving door, with at least five executives
holding the job in six years, according to people familiar with
the matter. Irvin Goldman, appointed in February and replaced in
May, had been fired in 2007 by brokerage Cantor Fitzgerald LP
for money-losing bets that led to a regulatory sanction of the
firm, said three people with knowledge of the matter. Goldman,
51, wasn’t directly accused of wrongdoing.  The division’s London team built up a book of  credit
derivatives  beginning in 2008 that became so large by late 2010
that employees couldn’t unwind it without roiling the markets or
incurring large losses, according to current and former
executives.  Risk management at the CIO was a world of its own: This
year its traders valued some of their positions at prices that
differed from the investment bank, people familiar with the
situation have said. One trader built up positions in credit
derivatives so large and market-moving he became known as the
London Whale. It was those bets on credit-default swaps known as
the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Series 9 that
backfired and forced JPMorgan to disclose the trading loss.  Elevating Drew  While Dimon allowed risks inside the CIO to mount, members
of his board lacked the experience to police it. None of the
three people on the board’s risk-policy committee has worked as
a banker or had any experience on Wall Street in the past 25
years, and one is a museum director.  Dimon’s push to take greater risks in the chief investment
office, first reported by Bloomberg News on April 13, began in
2005, not long after New York-based JPMorgan completed its
acquisition of Bank One Corp. and he became CEO.  He created the CIO, elevated Drew from treasurer to chief
investment officer, had her report directly to him and
encouraged her department, which had invested mostly in
government-backed securities, to seek profit by speculating on
higher-yielding assets such as credit derivatives, according to
more than half a dozen former executives. Sometimes Dimon
suggested positions, such as directional bets on economic trends
or asset classes, one current executive said.  ‘New Vision’  “We want to ramp up the ability to generate profit for the
firm,” David Olson, a former head of credit trading for the CIO
in North America, recalled being told by two executives when he
was hired in 2006. “This is Jamie’s new vision for the
company.”  Bank of America Corp. , Citigroup Inc. and  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) , the next three largest U.S. banks, say their corporate
investment offices follow more conservative strategies and don’t
trade credit-default swaps or indexes linked to the health of
companies, as JPMorgan is said to have done.  In 2006, Drew hired Achilles Macris, 50, a former co-head
of  capital markets  at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, to oversee
trading in London and carry out Dimon’s mandate to generate
greater profits, three former employees said. When JPMorgan
acquired Bear Stearns Cos. and Washington Mutual Inc. at fire-
sale prices in 2008 and with government support, the CIO’s
portfolio more than doubled to $166.7 billion from $76.2 billion
the previous year.  Surging Profits  Profits surged as assets swelled. The group started making
more exotic trades, betting against an index of subprime
mortgage bonds in 2007 that resulted in a roughly $1 billion
profit that year, according to one former CIO executive and
another person briefed on the trade. The following year, the
corporate division, which includes CIO and treasury results,
earned $1.5 billion, compared with a net loss of $150 million in
2007. Net income for the division was $3.7 billion in 2009.  As large as those numbers were, they understated the CIO’s
real profitability. Because Drew, 55, and her traders invested
on behalf of JPMorgan’s deposit-taking businesses, some of the
income they generated flowed to other departments, such as the
retail bank. Macris’s team in London, running a portfolio of as
much as $200 billion in trades, had a profit of $5 billion in
2010 alone, more than a quarter of JPMorgan’s net income that
year, one former executive said.  Earnings Impact  The CIO may have contributed as much as 80 cents a share to
the company’s earnings, according to estimates by Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales Partners LLC in New York.  “The issue that is still being underestimated is how much
of their core earnings power is going to be reduced by
restructuring and reining in that CIO,” he said in a June 4
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  In addition to making speculative bets, the CIO took on a
bigger role after the financial crisis, hedging JPMorgan’s
potential losses on loans and corporate bonds by taking
positions in credit derivatives.  The question of CIO oversight arose in the months after the
crisis, when top JPMorgan executives heard what Macris and his
fellow traders in the London office were doing and raised
concerns to Dimon that the unit’s risk management was
inadequate, according to the two executives familiar with the
conversations.  William Winters and Steven Black, co-heads of JPMorgan’s
investment bank at the time, were among those who sought more
information about the CIO’s changing risk profile, according to
people who participated in or witnessed the conversations.  Visibility Lacking  James “Jes” Staley, 55, who ran asset management at the
time and now heads the investment bank, and  John Hogan , then the
investment bank’s chief risk officer, also questioned why risk
controls inside the CIO weren’t as extensive or robust as in
other departments.  “That’s absurd,” said  Kristin Lemkau , a spokeswoman for
the bank. Winters, Black and Staley never complained about a
specific risk in the CIO, she said. If they had, Dimon’s
protocol would have been to gather the relevant data, let them
talk to Drew and return to him if they weren’t satisfied with
her response, a bank executive said. The operating committee, on
which they all sat, also could have reviewed the matter if they
still had concerns, the person said.  Hogan, in a statement issued through Lemkau, said he never
raised CIO risk practices with Dimon while serving as the
investment bank’s chief risk officer. “That’s never happened,”
he said in the statement.  Chinese Wall  One sore spot for executives inside the investment bank was
the lack of visibility into CIO positions, according to two
people with direct knowledge of the matter. While the weekly
risk-committee meetings held by the investment bank were open to
members of senior management and were attended regularly by
Macris and occasionally by Drew, parallel sessions run by the
CIO were closed to anyone outside the unit, these people said.  Among the explanations offered for Drew’s autonomy: There
was a so-called Chinese wall between the CIO and investment bank
because Drew’s unit was also a client, according to one current
and two former executives. The CIO used the investment bank to
place and process trades. Drew didn’t trust that division to
refrain from using the data to its advantage by offering non-
competitive prices or by trading against her, according to a
former executive who participated in those talks.  It also was widely known within the bank that Winters, 50,
and Black, 60, didn’t get along with Drew, according to a
current and a former executive.  A person close to the bank offered a different description
of the circumstances: While Dimon didn’t adopt a double standard
for Drew, he and other senior executives became complacent
toward the CIO over time as a result of her track record as a
consistent money maker, this person said.  Dimon’s Response  Winters and Black proposed redefining the role of Ashley Bacon, then head of market risk for the investment bank, to
extend his oversight to the CIO, a former bank official said.
The executives also asked that CIO risks be disclosed in greater
detail at review meetings and that other members of the bank’s
operating committee be involved in assessing them.  Dimon’s response, one of the people said, was that the
situation was under control. It was an answer that one former
executive said he got from Dimon again and again, as risks in
the CIO grew to potentially perilous levels.  “You really need people who have a very broad view of
things both quantitatively and with market knowledge and have
the clout within the firm to actually be heard,” said Emanuel Derman, a former head of quantitative risk strategies at  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , a professor at  Columbia University  and author
of “My Life as a Quant” and “Models Behaving Badly.” “To
say that it’s OK with the desk is not the right thing to do.”  ‘Good King’  In 2009, Dimon fired Winters and relieved Black of
operating responsibility. Staley took over as head of the
investment bank, and Mary Erdoes, 44, succeeded him at asset
management. Winters, Staley and Hogan declined to comment on the
discussions. Black didn’t return phone calls seeking comment.  Dimon and what he called his “fortress balance sheet”
meanwhile were being lauded by politicians and the media. He
steered JPMorgan through the 2008 financial crisis without a
single quarterly loss. New York magazine dubbed him “Good King
Jamie,” while a biography by Duff McDonald was titled “Last
Man Standing: The Ascent of  Jamie Dimon  and JPMorgan Chase.”  ‘Structural Deficiencies’  “In the wake of the financial crisis, he came to represent
this notion that, if well-managed, a bank didn’t need to be
regulated all that heavily,” said  Rakesh Khurana , a management
professor at  Harvard Business School  in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, and author of “Searching for a Corporate Savior:
The Irrational Quest for Charismatic CEOs.” “That may have
contributed to some structural deficiencies in governance and
risk management. It probably created the benefit of the doubt to
his direction in the board room and probably a lot of deference
to his authority in day-to-day operations.”  Drew spent three decades at the firm and its predecessors,
helping steer it through the Russian debt crisis and the
collapse of hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management in 1998.  At first, she maintained tight control over the CIO’s
trades, former colleagues and employees said. She ran the
group’s daily 7 a.m. meetings in a seventh-floor conference room
at JPMorgan’s headquarters at 270 Park Ave. in Manhattan,
according to former traders. She placed strict limits on how
much an investment could lose or gain, and traders were required
to exit positions if losses exceeded a certain amount, according
to one former manager in London and several former traders.  Longer Leash  Macris gave traders a longer leash and imposed fewer
controls, according to three former executives. So-called stop-
loss limits, which were supposed to trigger an internal review
or require a trader to immediately exit a position if losses
grew too large, weren’t always enforced, the executives said.
Macris didn’t respond to e-mails or phone calls seeking comment.  The shift in risk appetite led to the departures in 2008 of
some traders who specialized in more-liquid markets where risk
was easier to measure, such as interest-rate products and
foreign exchange, three other former CIO executives said. Under
Macris, the CIO’s London office bought European mortgage-backed
securities, structured credit and other assets that brought
higher yields and more risks than the safest short-term Treasury
bonds.  Peter Weiland, who graduated from  Princeton University  with
a degree in chemistry and had been overseeing risk for
JPMorgan’s proprietary-trading group, was transferred in 2008
into the same role at the CIO. He immediately saw faults in the
division’s risk-management system, said two former executives
who worked with him.  Boeing 747  While Drew hired traders and quantitative analysts needed
for trading, she failed to add the staff, computer models or
technology necessary to evaluate the new risks, a former and a
current executive said. The risk-management systems and
framework designed to spot potential pitfalls, especially in
credit derivatives, didn’t keep pace with the portfolio’s
expansion, the people said.  Weiland became concerned that Bruno Iksil, the trader in
Macris’s office now known as the London Whale, had amassed a
complex and illiquid position, according to two former
executives. Weiland, who declined to comment, warned Macris and
Drew about the trades on numerous occasions beginning in 2010,
the people said. It was a topic of frequent discussions in the
CIO’s global weekly meetings, they said.  Weiland compared efforts to reduce Iksil’s outsized
position to the difficulty of trying to safely land a Boeing 747
without flying lessons, one executive said. The position was so
large and illiquid, Weiland said he couldn’t get the plane below
35,000 feet, the executive said.  Changing VaR  Dimon said in his prepared testimony that the plan to
reduce the CIO’s credit-derivative trades was “poorly conceived
and vetted.”  “The strategy was not carefully analyzed or subjected to
rigorous stress-testing within CIO and was not reviewed outside
CIO,” he said.  By 2010 Iksil’s value-at-risk, or VaR -- a formula used by
banks to assess how much traders might lose in a day -- already
was $30 million to $40 million, a person with knowledge of the
matter said. At times the figure surpassed $60 million, the
person said, about as high as the level for the firm’s entire
investment bank, which employs 26,000 people.  Drew, who resigned last month after the CIO losses were
announced, was on sick leave for about six months in 2010,
during which time Macris and Althea Duersten, head of the CIO
for North America, ran the division. The daily meetings were
moved to a larger conference room near their new offices on the
10th floor to accommodate about 40 people in attendance. Drew
relocated to the executive suites, more than 30 floors higher,
to be closer to Dimon.  Illiquid  Drew and Macris agreed to reduce Iksil’s positions and
tried to do so beginning in early 2011, according to a current
and two former executives. The plan was to work down the book
gradually as they found opportunities to sell the assets, these
people said. The problem: No one was buying. The position was
too large and illiquid and couldn’t be reduced without a loss.
Drew and Macris decided the bank could hold the trades to
maturity and that the risk of being forced to liquidate them
under duress was low, according to the former executives.  Early this year, as the size and volatility of its trades
were growing, the bank changed the computer-based mathematical
formulas for calculating the chief investment office’s  VaR . The
new model had the effect of understating the risk of losses from
Iksil’s trades: It showed an average daily VaR within the CIO of
$67 million, about where it stood in the fourth quarter of 2011.  ‘Risk 101’  On May 10, when JPMorgan announced the loss, Dimon said the
bank had reviewed the effectiveness of the new model, deemed it
“inadequate” and decided to go back to the original model. On
that basis, VaR doubled to $129 million. So far, the bank hasn’t
disclosed how or when VaR for the CIO unit was changed while the
model for the rest of the firm remained untouched. Nor has it
explained who sought the change and who approved it.  Unable to unwind Iksil’s bets, the bank tried to hedge them
this year with other trades, exacerbating the losses, Dimon said
on May 10. Iksil had amassed positions in securities linked to
the financial health of corporations that were so large he was
driving price moves in the $10 trillion market.  Dimon later called it “a Risk 101 mistake.” Shares of the
company have dropped 19 percent through yesterday since the
losses were announced, and at least half a dozen agencies,
including the U.S. Department of Justice and the Securities and
Exchange Commission, are investigating.  ‘Brightest Angel’  While Dimon hasn’t faced the same public scrutiny that
rivals at Goldman Sachs and Bank of America endured after the
2008 credit crunch, the attention surrounding his testimony has
echoes with the bank’s own history. In 1933, after Congress was
shaken by another financial crisis, J.P. “Jack” Morgan, then
CEO of the company, was summoned to testify about preferential
treatment that JPMorgan gave certain clients.  The public reaction was “extreme disillusionment: the
brightest angel on Wall Street had fallen,” Ron Chernow wrote
in his 1990 book, “The House of Morgan.” The scandal “cast it
in the mud with other banks.”  The embarrassing disclosures in those hearings led to the
 Glass-Steagall Act , which forced JPMorgan to split off its
investment-banking business from its deposit-taking arm. Dimon’s
testimony tomorrow may have a similar effect: Giving ammunition
to those who would enforce stricter regulation of banks,
including advocates of the Volcker rule, which would bar most
proprietary trading by deposit-taking institutions and that the
JPMorgan CEO has fought vociferously.  Psychiatrists  He has said former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , for whom the
rule is named, doesn’t understand capital markets. He quipped
that bankers will need psychiatrists to evaluate whether their
trades qualify as hedges. Last year he took on Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in a public forum, blaming excessive regulation for
slowing a U.S. economic recovery and asking whether anyone has
“bothered to study the cumulative effect of all these things.”  Now, his own lapses may come back to haunt him.  “The risk management is as amateurish as you can get on
Wall Street,” Nassim Taleb, a professor of risk engineering at
 New York University  and author of “The Black Swan: The Impact
of the Highly Improbable,” said in a telephone interview about
the bank’s loss. “JPMorgan is vastly more fragile today than it
was five years ago, and the system is more fragile today with
more too-big-to-fail banks with proven incompetence at their
management level.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Erik Schatzker  in New York at  eschatzker@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net  or @liqquidity on Twitter  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  