-- How Germans Botched the Spanish Bank Bailout
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-06-12T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/how-germans-botched-the-spanish-bank-bailout.html
Europe ’s latest initiative to subdue
its financial crisis fell apart in less than a day.  The instant response to the plan for supporting Spanish
banks had been euphoric. Even as bond markets pushed the cost of
Spanish public borrowing even higher, in effect declaring the
country insolvent, politicians were still applauding themselves.  European Union leaders thought the plan would impress the
markets because the sum committed to support Spain’s banks, 100
billion euros ($125 billion), looked adequate -- bigger, in
fact, than investors expected. The EU thought it was getting
ahead of events for once.  It wasn’t. Mistakes in the deal’s design made the plan
self-defeating. These errors are worth noting, because they lie
at the core of the EU’s larger strategy.  The crucial thing is that the EU gave its support not
directly to  Spain ’s banks but to Spain’s government, which would
then lend it on. This had two fatal consequences. First, it
added to Spain’s public  debt , making its government less
creditworthy. Second, depending on how the loans are structured
-- a detail left vague as the rescue was announced -- Spain’s
new debt to the EU might subordinate existing bondholders.
Curbing the risk of a faster run on Spain’s banks was good,
investors presumably calculated, but not good enough.  Merkel’s Mess  Both dangers were recognized before the deal was put
together. Why then did the EU design the rescue this way? Why
not simply extend direct EU support to Spain’s banks? The answer
is Germany.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and her parliamentary allies
insisted that Spain’s government should bear responsibility for
the rescue. German taxpayers should not be directly exposed to
the costs of helping Spain’s banks. On the same reasoning,
Merkel has said that the Spanish rescue funds should come from
Europe’s new permanent lending facility, the  European Stability
Mechanism , on terms that would make the new debt senior.  It’s of a piece with Germany’s whole approach. The
overarching fact in this crisis is that German taxpayers feel
cheated. They didn’t want the euro in the first place,
suspecting it would become a transfer system that would put them
on the hook for other countries’  profligacy . That, of course, is
exactly what happened. To blunt this resistance,  Germany ’s
leaders promised at the outset there would be no bailouts, and
they insisted on lots of rules and mechanisms to back this up.
The crisis has blown that structure to pieces, but Merkel is
still trying to keep the promise -- even if the EU, and the
German economy along with it, collapses as a result.  Germany’s government is in a horrible political bind. Even
allowing for this, the country’s response to the crisis now
borders on the unintelligible.  On a small scale, the policy simply won’t work. Spain and
the other distressed economies can’t manage this crisis without
help from their EU partners. The absurdity in Germany’s approach
is that it concedes this -- in practice though not in principle.
It has already committed its taxpayers to many semidisguised
channels of support. The biggest is the commitment that the ECB
has made through liquidity support to euro-area banks and the
balancing operations of national central banks. If the euro
system doesn’t survive, enormous losses will find their way back
to German taxpayers.  Faulty Design  The choice is no longer between bailouts and no bailouts.
It is between bailouts that work and bailouts that fail. The
Spanish fiasco is one example. Germany has just put its
taxpayers on the line to help Spanish banks. To cloak that
commitment, it built failure into the design of the rescue. The
politics may be understandable. That doesn’t make the policy
defensible.  Seen from a higher altitude, Germany’s strategy is even
more perplexing. Merkel, echoing the line of previous German
chancellors, says she wants  closer European union . With the EU
at its present state of integration, she argues, transfers to
overspending governments are unacceptable. National governments
need to surrender sovereignty to the European center, she says,
so that democratic accountability is restored and proper
standards of governance can be maintained.  Meaning what? Perhaps she imagines that this new political
union would put Germany in command. Let’s call that an
idiosyncratic view of political integration. Assuming non-
Germans would be allowed to vote, Germany would be less in
command than now. It’s the profligate whose political clout
would increase. Deeper union would overwhelm the German anomaly
of prudent public finance.  Merkel and her northern European allies are right that the
EU’s member nations have different views and traditions on
taxes, public services, redistribution, risk-sharing, public
borrowing and every other aspect of public finance. They are
right that these differences put limits on the scope for fiscal
cooperation. It wouldn’t be fair, let’s say, to ask German
taxpayers to help pay for  France ’s more generous health-care
benefits.  On the other hand, it’s insane -- dangerously insane -- to
see full political union as the solution to that problem. Does
anybody think that political union would gently smooth away
those differences? Far-right nationalism is already resurgent in
many EU countries. There’s no demand anywhere, including
Germany, for the kind of European Union that Merkel keeps
advocating as the price for fuller cooperation. Germany’s policy
on the crisis boils down to this: We can’t confront our economic
calamity until we’ve agreed on a future for Europe that none of
us wants.  Closer Union  In previous columns I’ve  said  what I think needs to happen:
Limited, conditional and explicit debt mutualization to restore
confidence, combined with a renewed emphasis on the
accountability of national governments to their voters. The
first, with the emphasis on “explicit,” is the minimum
requirement for avoiding a European economic catastrophe. The
second accepts that the basis for a  United States  of Europe
doesn’t exist, and that’s why the debt pooling should be limited
and conditional.  The tension between the two parts is obvious. There’s no
alternative but to manage it. Union where necessary, sovereignty
where possible. It’s Germany’s least-cost choice, and that’s
what Merkel should be telling her voters.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: The editors on  the Bush family’s lessons for
Republicans  and  Jamie Dimon’s day in Congress ;  Edward Glaeser  on
 what the 1912 election tells us about 2012 ;  Margaret Carlson   on
the joys and sorrows of being Jeb Bush ; Emi Nakamura on  how the
U.S. could become like Argentina ; Robert Hockett on  splitting
Europe in half .  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 