-- Low Spanish Mortgage Arrears Rate Is Not ‘Magical,’ Group Says
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-06-12T14:40:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/low-spanish-mortgage-arrears-rate-is-not-magical-group-says.html
Spain ’s official mortgage arrears is
low as a result of strong fundamentals rather than “magical
processes,” the country’s mortgage association said.  Low interest rates mean that many mortgage holders are now
paying less in repayments than when they took out the loan, the
Madrid-based association, known as  AHE , said in an e-mailed
statement today. Spaniards under 30 years old, for whom the
 unemployment rate  is about 40 percent, account for only 4
percent of  mortgage loans , the group said.  A debate is raging over whether official  mortgage default 
rates of about 2.7 percent accurately reflect the true level of
losses with unemployment at more than 24 percent and analysts
predicting the economy will shrink this year and next.  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  Chief Executive Officer Alfredo Saenz
said April 27 that anyone saying that mortgage defaults were a
problem for Spanish banks was “saying something stupid.” He
made his comments a day after JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts
Roberto Henriques and Gareth Davies wrote in a report that the
prospect of increasing losses on the more than 600 billion euros
($749 billion) of Spanish home loans could be the “next
elephant” for Spain as unemployment spurs defaults.  Other factors that help keep down mortgage arrears include
unemployment benefit payments, the use of loan guarantors and
the fact that Spain has a sizable hidden economy, AHE said.  “It’s very frequent that family cohesion is behind the
solution of not a few situations of non-payment,” the group
said. “Parents and siblings not only help to maintain the
family but also contribute financially to the payment of
installments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  