-- Ozzie Guillen’s Motor Mouth, Yogi Berra’s Wisdom: Sports
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   S h r i b m a n
-- 2012-06-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/ozzie-guillen-s-motor-mouth-yogi-berra-s-wisdom-sports.html
Miami might be the worst place for a
baseball manager to mouth off about the virtues of a onetime
pitcher named  Fidel Castro .  That’s what Marlins manager  Ozzie Guillen  did this spring,
earning himself a five-game suspension and sealing his image as
a man who could say anything, and probably will.  “He always reserves the right to say more,” writes Rick
Morrissey, whose “ Ozzie’s School of Management ” ( Times Books ,
$26) is not likely to be assigned at  Harvard Business School 
anytime soon.  In a book less about management than about the way Guillen
manages, Morrissey captures the essential Ozzie: one part
motivator and one part motor mouth. In an age dominated by spin,
Guillen is unscripted, though not unlikely to spin out of
control. He loves the limelight, he loves baseball and he loves
being a baseball manager because it keeps him in the game and at
the center of attention.  Guillen managed the White Sox to a  World Series 
championship and managed to get in trouble in his new lair,
Miami, in record time. His management style is the sum of all
his experience plus the sum of all ownership fears.  “It takes a certain kind of person to absorb abuse, to
want to absorb it, to actually seek it out for the purpose of
staging a head-on collision,” Morrissey writes.  Two Teams  Years like 1968 don’t come along very often. It was the
year of the Tet offensive, the assassinations of  Martin Luther
King Jr . and Robert F. Kennedy, rioting outside the Democratic
National Convention, unforgettable images of earth from Apollo
8. It was also the last year baseball’s post-season included
only two teams.  You don’t see teams like the 1968 Detroit Tigers and St.
 Louis Cardinals  very often, either. They were stocked with
talent -- Mickey Lolich and Denny McLain, Willie Horton and Al
Kaline, Bob Gibson, Lou Brock, Orlando Cepeda and Roger Maris --
and they provide the principal characters in Tim Wendel’s
“ Summer of ’68 ” (Da Capo, $25), a chronicle of that splendid
season in that tumultuous time of tension and transformation.  The two teams glared at each other all season -- everyone
knew they were the best -- and in October they collided,
producing a masterly World Series. The Tigers prevailed, though
it is possible to say that in that autumn classic nobody lost.  This is one of those rare baseball books in which figures
as diverse as  Bill Russell ,  Joe Namath  and Tom Hayden march
through its pages. The year 1968 marks us still, and Tim Wendel
has reminded us why.  Driving Yogi  Now skip ahead a bit and consider Ron Guidry, whose career
as pitcher and coach spanned the years 1975 to 2007, and  Yogi Berra , whose tenure went from 1946 to 1989. An odd couple,
perhaps. An unforgettable one, surely.  In a well-loved ritual, each year since 1999 Berra has
flown to Tampa,  Florida , to be met at the airport by Guidry, two
legends off on a spring training spree.  “It’s like I’m the valet,” Guidry would say. “Actually,
I am the valet.”  “ Driving Mr. Yogi ” (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, $26) is
Harvey Araton’s story of two men as intertwined as the letters
in the Yankees’ logo, sharing old-timers’ laughs and lore -- and
perspective about a game that worships past heroes.  This spring training ritual brought Berra back to baseball
and, in his tutelage of the new crop of Yankees, steered young
players back to the game’s basics. But as much as this book is
about baseball, it’s really about friendship, respect and the
enduring lessons of the past.  As he aged, Yogi forgot some things, but mostly they were
his shaving cream and Q-Tips, easily replaced. It’s what he
remembered -- the baseball lore and wisdom -- that he shared.  The message of this book, like David Halberstam’s 2003
classic “The Teammates,” about  Ted Williams , Bobby Doerr,
Dominic DiMaggio and Johnny Pesky, is that baseball’s old timers
know a good time, and lived in one, too.  (David M. Shribman is executive editor of the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  James Pressley  on business books
 James S. Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer of this column:
David M. Shribman at  dshribman@post-gazette.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 