-- Pakistan Probe Finds Former Envoy to U.S. Author of Coup Memo
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-06-12T09:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/pakistan-probe-finds-former-envoy-to-u-s-author-of-coup-memo.html
A Pakistani judicial commission
found the nation’s former ambassador to the U.S. sent Pentagon
chiefs a secret memo seeking help to avert a possible coup in
May last year amid turmoil after the killing of  Osama bin Laden .  The Supreme Court ordered the commission on Dec. 30 to
probe allegations by Pakistani-American  Mansoor Ijaz  that
President Asif Ali Zardari’s then envoy to  Washington ,  Husain Haqqani , was behind the note. Haqqani was disloyal to the
Pakistani state while serving as ambassador, the Geo television
channel reported, citing the commission’s findings which were
presented to a nine-member top court bench today.  The findings are “political and one-sided,” Haqqani said
in an e-mailed statement from Washington today. “The entire
proceeding reflected the political machination of ideological
elements, including the judiciary, and had little to do with
fact finding.” The Supreme Court will begin hearing the case
later this month.  The dispute over the memo triggered the sharpest
confrontation between the civilian and military leadership in
Pakistan since army rule ended in 2008. Zardari opposed the
judicial inquiry, while military chief General Ashfaq Pervez Kayani supported it. The unilateral U.S. strike that killed bin
Laden in a garrison town north of Islamabad on May 2, 2011
humiliated the Pakistani army, which for years had denied the
presence of senior al-Qaeda leaders on its soil.  Internal tensions eased after Prime Minster Yousuf Raza Gilani retracted remarks in which he accused generals of
violating the constitution by submitting their statements on
Ijaz’s claims directly to the  Supreme Court  rather than through
his government.  Haqqani, who was forced to resign over the memo, and the
government deny involvement in the drafting or delivery of the
document. Haqqani served as an adviser to Zardari and in the
1990s was a spokesman for Zardari’s late wife,  Benazir Bhutto ,
during her tenure as prime minister.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  