-- Paychex-FedEx Offer Barometer for Second-Quarter Growth
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2012-06-12T16:18:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/paychex-fedex-provide-barometer-for-second-quarter-u-s-growth.html
Paychex Inc. (PAYX)  and  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  may
provide an early read on how the economic expansion is faring
when they release quarterly results later this month.  Data from the two companies are “like a weather vane” of
U.S. health for investors such as  Lawrence Creatura  at  Federated
Investors Inc. (FII)  Paychex’s checks per payroll can help track
changes in employment, while FedEx’s U.S. shipment volume
indicates “the velocity of industrial production,” he said.  These are “thermometers that some investors use to measure
the temperature of the economy,” because they track government
statistics for jobs and manufacturing output, said Creatura, who
helps to oversee $363.6 billion as a  fund manager  in Rochester,
New York.  FedEx, operator of the world’s biggest cargo airline, is
scheduled to report fiscal fourth-quarter earnings on June 19,
followed by Paychex, a payroll-service provider, on June 27. The
Commerce Department will announce its advance estimate for
second-quarter gross domestic product on July 27. The economy
probably expanded at a 2.1 percent annualized rate in the
period, according to the median estimate of 68 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News from June 1 to June 5.  ‘Best Indicator’  The average number of checks Paychex issues per client is
“certainly our best indicator of how the economy is doing,”
Martin Mucci, president and chief executive officer of the
Rochester, New York-based company, said in an interview. This
proxy for small-business hiring grew 1.8 percent in both the
fiscal second and third quarters, compared with a 5 percent
decline in the three months through Aug. 31, 2009, as the 18-
month recession was ending.  Stocks climbed as speculation the  Federal Reserve  will take
steps to stimulate the economy tempered concern about a
worsening  European debt crisis . The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
rose 0.3 percent to 1,312.69 at 9:50 a.m. in New York.  Elsewhere today, a report showed manufacturing production
in the U.K. fell more than economists forecast in April,
pointing to continued economic weakness at the start of the
second quarter. In  Asia , the  International Monetary Fund  said
 Japan ’s currency was overvalued and the nation’s central bank
should consider further monetary stimulus.  ‘Flatten Out’  The recent gains in Paychex’s U.S. gauge were driven
primarily by existing customers adding workers, Mucci said. The
company would have anticipated growth to “flatten out” at this
stage in an economic expansion because it would be adding more
new customers, but such increases have been modest, he said.  Paychex forecasts growth among its current clients -- which
employ an average of 16 or 17 workers -- will be “basically
flat” this year, Mucci said. The company doesn’t provide a
forecast for checks per payroll.  The metric probably will moderate closer to 1 percent
during 2012 if new-business formation improves, said Timothy McHugh, an analyst in Chicago at William Blair & Co. This would
be consistent with a “more normal hiring environment,” while
no growth would signal a slowing in the pace at which small
businesses increase headcount, said McHugh, who maintains an
“outperform” recommendation on the company.  Hiring by all nonfarm employers stalled in May at 69,000
workers, the least in a year, while the jobless rate rose to 8.2
percent from 8.1 percent the previous month, Labor Department
data show.  Daily Volume  Investors also look to FedEx to gauge the pace of expansion
in the world’s largest economy, said Charles Clowdis, managing
director of transportation-advisory services at IHS Global
Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts . That’s because the  Memphis ,
Tennessee-based company’s average daily volume for its U.S.
domestic-package, Ground and SmartPost businesses tracks
production activity in the U.S., he said.  Total volume in these businesses rose 3.4 percent in the
three months ended Feb. 29 compared with a year earlier, down
from 10.4 percent in the fiscal quarter ended Nov. 30, 2009,
according to FedEx data. Manufacturing output, which accounts
for about 75 percent of industrial production, grew  5.8 percent 
in April compared with a year earlier on a seasonally-adjusted
basis, down from 8.1 percent in June 2010, Fed data show.  FedEx’s “depressed volumes” were partly the result of
“below-trend” economic activity,  Mike Glenn , executive vice
president for market development, said on a March 22 conference
call. “We just don’t have as strong” an economy “as we had
hoped it would be a year ago,” Chief Financial Officer Alan Graf said on the same call.  ‘Right Direction’  Even so, the FedEx data indicate growth is “moving in the
right direction, albeit very slowly,” which is consistent with
a “moderate recovery,” Clowdis said. If volume gains fall
below 2 percent for the quarter ending May 31, this would be
“more concerning,” he said.  FedEx declined to comment, noting it is in a quiet period
before its earnings release.  As investors try to gauge the economy’s strength, these
data are important to watch in concert with other employment and
production statistics, according to Creatura.  “Investors are constantly on the hunt for new and
differentiated sources of information that the rest of the
market doesn’t have,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in  New York  at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  