-- PayPal to Offer E-Commerce on TV Sets With Comcast, TiVo
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-06-12T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/paypal-to-offer-e-commerce-on-tv-sets-with-comcast-tivo.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal payment service
will join with cable company  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and set-top box maker
 TiVo Inc. (TIVO)  to let television viewers donate money and buy goods
from their TV sets using a remote control.  Starting as early as this fall, viewers with PayPal
accounts will be able to click on TV commercials to buy
advertised goods, make donations to political campaigns and
nonprofits, and ask advertisers to text information to their
phones, PayPal Vice President Scott Dunlap said in an interview.
Consumers also will be able to electronically collect coupons
for shopping with PayPal in stores such as  Home Depot Inc. (HD)   The deals are part of PayPal’s effort to boost revenue by
providing its payment service on more devices. It already powers
20 percent of global e-commerce sales and a third of purchases
made on mobile phones and tablets, Dunlap said. TV-based
commerce could be as big an opportunity as mobile, he said.  “We think television is the next big one coming down the
pike,” Dunlap said. PayPal expects to process $7 billion of
mobile payments this year, according to  San Jose , California-
based EBay’s  first-quarter earnings release .  The average U.S. consumer watches more than 34 hours of
television per week, according to Nielsen Co. PayPal found in a
survey of cable subscribers that about 49 percent of them are
open to the idea of making purchases through their TVs.  PayPal, which has almost 110 million active registered
accounts, will make money by charging transaction fees, Dunlap
said. Its partners, including Comcast and TiVo, may be able to
charge higher rates for ads linked to the purchasing technology
or add transaction fees, he said.  Cable Boxes  The service will be available in homes with TiVo Premiere
four-tuner digital video recorders.  “TiVo’s interactive ads have always been about giving
advertisers a way to connect with viewers on the viewer’s
terms,” Tara Maitra, senior vice president of content and media
sales, said. “Working with PayPal now provides an easy way to
go from ads and content directly to purchasing products on TV,
bringing the effectiveness of advertising to the next level.”  Comcast has agreed to work with PayPal on TV-based
commerce, according to an Internet posting today by Tony Werner,
Comcast’s executive vice president and chief technology officer.  “We’re in the very early stages of our discussions,” he
said.  PayPal has been inching into T-commerce, as it’s called,
for several years. It  started working  in 2010 with Canoe
Ventures, founded by cable companies to create interactive TV
products and services.  Last year, PayPal  added  a “Watch With EBay” tab to EBay’s
iPad app that lets tablet users buy products shown in ads
they’re watching on TV. Users tap the tab, type in their Zip
code, cable provider and channel they’re watching.  “Consumer expectations from phones and tablets are coming
directly to television,” Dunlap said. “A lot of the pieces are
coming together to make T-commerce possible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  