-- Philippines Urges Credit-Rating Companies to Adjust Criteria
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-06-12T23:54:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/philippines-urges-credit-rating-companies-to-adjust-criteria-2-.html
Credit rating companies are failing
to keep up with the  bond market  in recognizing that the
 Philippines  deserves to be classified as investment grade,
Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said.  “They need to adjust their model to reflect the
realities,” Purisima said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in New York yesterday. “My biggest frustration is
really with those watching from the outside.”  The Philippines is rated two steps below investment grade
at Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s , in line with
Turkey and Jordan. The  average  yield on the Philippines’ foreign
debt has declined 32 basis points, or 0.32 percentage point,
this year to 4.13 percent, compared with an average of 4.26
percent for investment-grade countries, according to data
compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Philippines bonds have rallied, and the cost to insure the
securities against default has fallen, as the government cracked
down on  tax evasion  and reduced debt levels. Both S&P and
Moody’s have a positive outlook on their ratings, indicating
they may upgrade the classification.  “On the implied ratings, we are between three to four
notches underrated, which is the largest gap in the world,”
said Purisima, who is in the U.S. to meet with investors and
credit-rating companies. “What I am asking for is to reduce
that gap.”  ‘Asset Bubbles’  The cost of protecting Philippines’ bonds against default
for five years with credit-default swaps is 179 basis points, 67
basis points below that of  Russia , which is rated three notches
higher at S&P, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rating companies are facing increasing scrutiny from
investors and regulators after their top ratings on bonds backed
by U.S. subprime mortgages underestimated the risks of the
securities and contributed to the global financial crisis in
2008. S&P’s decision to strip the U.S. of its top credit grade
in August was followed by gains in the nation’s  Treasury debt .  While rated four steps below  Spain  at S&P, Philippines
raised funds in the international market at lower costs. The
Southeastern Asian country sold $1.5 billion of 25-year dollar-
denominated bonds in January to yield 5 percent in January.
Spain’s bonds with similar maturities yielded 190 basis points
more.  Purisima, 52, said policy makers are examining foreign
capital inflows and investment in real estate as they seek to
ward off excessive increases in currency valuation and housing
prices.  “We are monitoring carefully the situation to make sure we
don’t create problems down the road for us in terms of asset
bubbles,” Purisima said. “We are very far from the
situation.”  Peso Rally  The peso has rallied 2.2 percent versus the dollar this
year, the best performer among the most-traded Asian currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The Philippine Stock Exchange Index
climbed 16 percent this year, outperforming a 0.4 percent
retreat for the MSCI Emerging Market Index.  Remittances from overseas workers and outsourcing from
multinational companies, rather than speculators, are the main
reasons supporting the peso, according to Purisima.  The government is trying to direct foreign capital into
infrastructure investment to help boost growth, he said.  ‘Right Direction’  The  Philippine economy  expanded 6.4 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, the fastest pace since 2010, as
President  Benigno Aquino  boosted  government spending  to counter
faltering global demand.  In December, S&P boosted the rating outlook to positive,
while citing a narrow tax revenue base, low  household income  and
high foreign debt burdens as constraints for credit improvement.  Philippines’ per capita gross domestic product was about
$1,383 in 2010, less than one third of  Brazil , according to the
 World Bank . About 43 percent of its debt was denominated in
foreign currencies, leaving it “vulnerable to adverse”
currency movements, the S&P said in a statement on Dec. 16.  While there’s room for improvement, the government is
moving in the “right direction,” as Aquino’s administration
cracks down on tax evasion and reduces the proportion of foreign
bonds in the total debt mix, Purisima said.  Tax revenue  increased 12 percent in April from a year
earlier, according to the government data. In January, the
Treasury raised $1.25 billion by selling 25-year peso bonds to
global investors as part of its strategy to reduce the reliance
on foreign debt for financing.  “The important thing is that we are pointing in the right
direction and moving forward,” Purisima said. “It’s dangerous
to look at measures in isolation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  