-- Co-Host Poland, Russia Tie 1-1 in Euro 2012; Czech Republic Wins
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-06-12T22:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/poland-russia-tie-1-1-in-warsaw-in-euro-2012-group-a-match.html
Co-host  Poland  tied 1-1 against
Russia at soccer’s European Championship last night for its
second straight draw, while the Czech Republic rebounded from
a heavy opening loss with a 2-1 victory against Greece.  Alan Dzagoev put Russia ahead in Warsaw with his
tournament-leading third goal and Jakub Blaszczykowski replied
for Poland. Petr Jiracek and Vaclav Pilar scored in the opening
six minutes for the Czechs in Wroclaw, with Fanis Gekas getting
the goal for  2004 champion  Greece.  “We’ve proved that we can play a good game and achieve
good results,” Blaszczykowski said in comments on  UEFA ’s
website. “We’re still in contention with two points and if we
win our final game we’re through. We’ll fight until the end.”  Russia , which started with a 4-1 victory against the
Czechs, tops the Group A standings through two rounds of matches
with four points. The Czech Republic has three, Poland two and
Greece one. The top two qualify for the quarterfinals.  “We’re happy to still have a chance of going through,”
Czech coach Michal Bilek told reporters. “We knew it would be
the end of our Euro if we’d have lost.”  Today in Group B,  Germany  faces the Netherlands in Kharkiv,
Ukraine, and  Denmark  plays  Portugal  in Lviv.  Fans scuffled ahead of Poland and Russia’s match. Police
said that 10 people were injured in sporadic clashes around the
city.  Early Chance  Poland, looking for its first win at a European
Championship, started positively and almost scored after seven
minutes. Ludovic Obraniak swung a free kick into the penalty
area and Sebastian Boenisch had a header saved at close range
by goalkeeper Vyacheslav Malafeev with his left leg.  Robert Lewandowski , the scorer of Poland’s goal in its
opening match, then volleyed just over the bar from 25 yards
(7.6 meters) on 11 minutes. The co-hosts had a goal disallowed
in the 18th minute, Eugen Polanski straying offside before
putting the ball in the net.  Russia broke forward and took the lead on 37 minutes as
Andrey Arshavin fired in a free kick and Dzagoev headed it past
Przemyslaw Tyton.  Lewandowski failed to convert two opportunities early in
the second half before Poland tied it after 57 minutes.
Blaszczykowski cut inside on his left foot before curling a
left-foot shot into the corner of the net from the edge of the
area.  Russia, a semifinalist four years ago, extends its unbeaten
run to 16 matches.  Fast Start  The  Czech Republic , beaten by Greece in the semifinals at
Euro 2004, took three minutes to score its opening goal in
Wroclaw.  Tomas Hubschman split the Greek defense with a pass through
the middle and Jiracek collected the ball before sliding a shot
past goalkeeper Kostas Chalkias.  Greece, without two defenders who started its opening game
against Poland with Sokratis Papastathopoulos suspended and
Avraam Papadopoulos injured, was soon two goals behind.  Theodor Gebre Selassie attacked on the right flank and his
low cross was turned in by Pilar for his second goal in two
games.  Greece replaced injured goalkeeper Chalkias, at 38 the
oldest player at the tournament, with Michalis Sifakis on 22
minutes.  Greece, which had a score ruled out for offside five
minutes before halftime, was gifted a goal early in the second
period following a mistake by  Petr Cech . The goalkeeper, who
last month won the  Champions League  with Chelsea, spilled a
cross and Gekas stroked the ball into an empty net.  “We did everything to try and score the equalizer but
couldn’t,” Greece coach Fernando Santos told reporters. “Now
we have to turn our eyes to the next match. We have only a
slight chance, but there is still hope.”  In the final group games on June 16, Greece plays Russia in
Warsaw and the Czech Republic plays Poland in Wroclaw.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 