-- Postal Service to ‘Look Like Greece’ Without Aid, Donahoe Says
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-06-12T16:15:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/postal-service-to-look-like-greece-without-aid-donahoe-says.html
The U.S.  Postal Service  “will look
like  Greece ” if Congress fails to help it cut costs, U.S.
Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe said.  Donahoe, speaking today at the PostalVision 2020 conference
in Washington, said the service’s annual expenses will rise to
$81 billion by 2016 without congressional action to allow cuts,
including reducing a requirement to pay in advance for health
benefits for future retirees.  “If we don’t do something about the costs of this
organization, we will look like Greece,” he said.  The Postal Service, which lost $3.2 billion in the quarter
ended March 31, is seeking congressional permission to run its
own health benefits plans and labor agreements to relax work
rules and use more part-time employees.  About 78 percent of the service’s expenses are labor costs,
including the 20 percent of the total that pays for future
retiree health-care expenses and other health-care benefits,
Donahoe said.  The service wants the  House of Representatives  to consider
a postal overhaul measure that Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a
Virginia Republican, last month said the chamber will take up
between July 4 and August. The Senate has already passed a
postal overhaul bill.  “We do not have to go down that path” of Greece’s economy
if the House and Senate come to agreement on postal overhaul
legislation, Donahoe told reporters after his speech.  The service and labor unions including the National
Association of Letter Carriers have sought arbitration to reach
new labor agreements.  “We need less expensive work hours, and we need more
flexibility on who can do what jobs,” Donahoe said in his
speech. “Nobody can operate with 1940 work rules in a 2020
environment.”  Work-rule restrictions include limits on the mail-delivery
routes letter carriers can handle, he said after the speech.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in  Washington  at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  