-- Prices of U.S. Goods Imports Decrease by Most in Two Years
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-06-12T12:48:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/prices-of-goods-imported-into-u-s-drop-by-most-in-two-years.html
Prices of goods imported into the
U.S. fell in May by the most in almost two years, reflecting
lower costs for fuel and food.  The 1 percent decrease in the  import-price index , the
biggest since June 2010, follows an unchanged reading in April,
Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington . The drop
matched the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. Prices
excluding fuel fell 0.1 percent.  Slowing economies overseas may reduce demand for raw
materials, holding prices in check while energy costs retreat. A
“subdued” inflation outlook gives Federal Reserve officials
more room to ease monetary policy to spur U.S. economic growth.  “Price pressures are beginning to ebb,” said Jacob
Oubina, a senior U.S. economist at RBC Capital Markets LLC in
 New York , who correctly forecast the drop in prices. “Slower
global growth is influencing a lot of what we’re seeing on the
price front. From the Fed’s perspective, that box of
disinflationary conditions has already been checked off.”  Stock-index futures held earlier gains after the report on
speculation the Fed will take steps to revive growth. The
contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in
September rose 0.4 percent to 1,304.8 at 8:37 a.m. in New York.
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago President  Charles Evans 
said in a Bloomberg Television interview airing today that he
would support a variety of measures to boost growth,
underscoring his preference for more stimulus.  Survey Results  Projections for import prices ranged from a decreases of 2
percent to 0.5 percent, according to the Bloomberg survey of 45
economists. The Labor Department revised the April reading from
an originally reported 0.5 percent drop.  Compared with a year earlier, import prices decreased 0.3
percent, the first decline since the year ended October 2009,
today’s report showed. They rose 0.9 percent in the 12 months
ended in April.  The cost of imported petroleum fell 4.2 percent from the
prior month, the most since May 2010, and was down 2 percent
from a year earlier. The price of imported food decreased 0.7
percent.  Prices for imported automobiles dropped 0.1 percent, the
first decline this year.  Consumer goods  excluding vehicles also
showed a 0.1 percent price decrease.  Cooling global growth that curbs overseas demand will
probably take pressure off commodity prices. The expansion in
the 17-nation euro region stagnated in the first quarter from
the same time in 2011.  China’s economy  grew 8.1 percent in the
first three months of 2012 from a year earlier, the slowest pace
in 11 quarters.  India ’s GDP rose at a 5.3 percent pace in the
first quarter from a year earlier, the slowest in nine years.  Weakening Demand  “If demand doesn’t hold up, if  China  demand is weak and
European demand is weak then it’s hard to see why we would
experience a lot of raw-material inflation the foreseeable
future,” said Gary Hendrickson, president and chief executive
officer of  Valspar Corp. (VAL)   The Minneapolis-based maker of paints and coatings
anticipates low to mid-single digit year-over-year price
increases, Hendrickson said during a May 23 investor conference.  The cost of imported goods from China was unchanged in May,
while items from the European Union dropped 0.1 percent.  A pickup in the value of the  U.S. dollar  since the third
quarter of 2011 may also help make imported goods less
expensive. The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc.
uses to track the currency against that of six major trade
partners including the euro and yen, has increased 12 percent
since July 26 through yesterday.  Fed’s Outlook  The outlook for inflation is “subdued,” and price
increases will probably remain at or slightly below the 2
percent level that’s in line with the central bank policy
makers’ goal to meet their dual mandate of stable prices and
maximum employment, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress’s
Joint Economic Committee last week. Higher unemployment and
retreating oil and gas prices “should continue to restrain
inflationary pressures.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee , which sets the course of
central bank policy, meets next week. The group may address a
cooling U.S. expansion, the weakest job growth in a year and a
widening crisis in Europe  U.S. export prices decreased 0.4 percent in May, today’s
report also showed, after rising 0.4 percent the previous month.
Prices of farm exports climbed 0.7 percent and those of non-farm
goods decreased 0.5 percent.  The import-price index is the first of three monthly price
gauges from the Labor Department. Data on producer prices come
out June 13, followed the next day by the consumer-price index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  