-- Psychiatrist Romps, Lion Talks, Salome Sings: U.K. Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-06-12T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/psychiatrist-romps-lion-talks-salome-sings-u-k-stage.html
The deranged hunchback psychiatrist
walks over to her father’s portrait and cackles. Then she turns
to her patients and reveals the truth of their incarceration.  Friedrich Duerrenmatt’s satire “The Physicists” (1962),
now at the Donmar Warehouse in London, has an amusingly Grand 
Guignol denouement. In Sophie Thompson, playing the twisted 
psychiatrist Dr. von Zahnd, it also has a comic actress who 
scores a bull’s-eye with every dart.  Zahnd has only three patients in her luxurious sanatorium.
Two of them believe they are  Isaac Newton  and  Albert Einstein ,
and the third is the renowned physicist Johann Wilhelm Mobius.  He believes that his amazing discoveries have the potential
to be abused by humanity, so he feigns madness in order to
continue his work in safe seclusion.  The situation provides a springboard for discussions on the
ethics of scientific responsibility, and the danger of
knowledge. Who is sane? Who is mad?  So far, so Sixties. The politics of the piece are sometimes
quaint and reductive. A debate about the relative merits of
democracy (“not free”) and militarized socialism (“not free
either”) is naive, even for its time.  Stomping Shrink  The comedy is another matter, and in Jack Thorne’s new
translation, it still feels fresh. Thompson relishes all the
opportunities that the exaggerated mad-scientist role of Zahnd
offers. She stomps about, enunciating with booming authority.
She laughs with a mirthless dry sucking-in sound.  Periwigged Newton (Justin Salinger) and pop-eyed Einstein
(Paul Bhattacharjee) step up to the plate too, and play their
roles with juicy comic gestures.  John Heffernan employs a more naturalistic style as Mobius,
and this is a problem. It seems director Josie Rourke wants to
show Mobius as a moral mouthpiece, and his pronouncements as
lessons. Who wants to be lectured at the theater?  Those moments apart, Rourke’s production fizzes and
sparkles, and the clever plot twists in Act 2 are well handled.
It looks attractive, too, in designer  Robert Jones ’s all-white
1960s clinic with fashionable chairs and lamps. Rating: ***.  Lucia’s Trills  Opera Holland Park opens its summer season with Olivia Fuchs’s new production of “Lucia di Lammermoor” by Donizetti.  The corset-and-bustle costumes suggest that the action has
been updated to the 1870s. Jamie Vartan’s set, a monolithic slab
of cracked slate, offers a gloomily symbolic background.  There’s neither enough period detail to suggest why Fuchs
chose the 1870s as her setting, nor enough emotional specifics
to make the relationships convincing.  It makes for a slow evening, despite some good singing.
Aldo di Toro is a stylish, Italianate Edgardo, and Elvira
Fatykhova (Lucia) uses some well-produced scales and trills to
make the most of her mad scene. The glass-harmonica
accompaniment sounds terrific, and Stuart Stratford’s conducting
offers the drama that the production lacks. Rating: **.  “The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe,” directed by
Rupert Goold (“Enron”), is playing in an impressive circus-
like tent on Kensington Gardens. Based on the novel by C.S.
Lewis, it tells of four children who enter a magical realm to do
battle with the evil White Witch who lives there.  There’s a majestic talking lion, operated by three
puppeteers, who appears at the climax of a beautifully
orchestrated pageant. There’s a giddy flying-battle sequence.
There are in-the-round projections and fairytale costumes.  It’s a spectacular family show, with enough humor and
smoke-and-mirrors trickery to keep adults as entertained as the
kids. And who can resist a friendly talking lion? Rating: ****.  Proud Antigone  Two other shows shine a darker light on human affairs.
Sophocles’s “Antigone” gets a taut, atmospheric production
from Polly Findlay at the National Theatre. She updates the
action, about a leader who forbids his niece to bury her
traitorous brother, to a 1970s police state. Jodie Whittaker
makes a stirring and defiant Antigone, standing up for the
rights of humanity against temporal laws. If Christopher Eccleston (King Creon) lacks her natural authority, Jamie
Ballard gives a wonderfully neurotic turn as the blind prophet
Tiresias. This show grips like a fish hook. Rating: ***.  As does  David McVicar ’s superb production of  Richard Strauss ’s “Salome” at the Royal Opera House. He sets the
action in the creepy, white-tiled basement of a 1930s palace.
Angela Denoke is the emotionally damaged heroine who slinks
around the stage in a stylish Molyneux-style dress, and sings
with a powerful, clean-edged sound. During a punchy “Dance of
the Seven Veils,” McVicar shows that Salome’s terrible behavior
springs from a childhood of sexual abuse by Herod. It’s an
emotional sucker-punch in a great production. Rating: ***.  “The Physicists” is at the Donmar Warehouse, whose
principal sponsor is  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
 http://www.donmarwarehouse.com  or +44-844-871-7642; “Lucia di
Lammermoor” is in repertoire at Opera Holland Park, which is
sponsored by Investec Wealth & Investment;
 http://www.operahollandpark.com  +44-300-999-1000; “The Lion,
the Witch, and the Wardrobe” is at the Threesixty Theatre,
Kensington Gardens,  http://www.lionwitchtheshow.com 
+44-844-871-7693; “Antigone” is in repertoire at the National
Theatre,  http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk  or +44-20-7452-3000;
“Salome” is in repertoire through June 16 at the Royal Opera
House,  http://www.roh.org.uk  or +44-20-7304-4000.  Muse highlights include:  James Pressley  on books and  Scott
Reyburn  on the art market.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
lifestyle section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in  London , at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  