-- Qantas Hires Macquaire for Takeover Defense After Slump
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-06-12T06:20:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/qantas-rises-most-since-august-as-takeover-defence-begins.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , which lost A$1
billion ($1 billion) in market value last week, appointed
 Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  and set up an internal team to ward off
potential bids for  Australia ’s largest carrier.  Shares of the carrier jumped 11 percent, the biggest gain
in more than five years, to A$1.075 at close of trading in
Sydney. Macquarie was hired to advise on a defense against any
bids by buyout firms, Thomas Woodward, a Qantas spokesman, said
by e-mail.  Qantas may be more attractive to bidders after its stock
slumped to its lowest levels on record last week after
forecasting the first annual net loss since a 1995 initial
public offering. The airline, which can only legally be
controlled by Australian investors, is battling rising losses on
international services as rivals from the  Middle East  and  Asia 
lure passengers.  “There have to be people looking at potential strategic
stakes or a takeover,” said Sondal Bensan, an analyst at BT
Investment Management Ltd. “Whether they have serious
intentions is a hard call. It’s a difficult business to run and
we’re in an uncertain environment.”  BT is controlled by  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , Qantas’s
seventh-largest shareholder with a 5.1 percent stake, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Qantas has been the subject of takeover attempts in the
past. Macquarie was a member of a group led by TPG Capital that
agreed to buy Qantas in 2006 for A$5.45 in cash per share. The
bid failed after shareholders rejected the offer.  Qantas didn’t give any reason for announcing the defense
move, which was first reported in the Australian Financial
Review newspaper today.  Strategic Stake  The Australian newspaper Nov. 26  quoted  former Qantas Chief
Executive Officer Geoff Dixon saying he had a “serious look”
at buying a strategic stake in the carrier last year.  Consolidation of carriers “is a good thing for the
industry”, Chief Executive Officer Alan Joyce said at an
industry conference in Beijing today. “The industry is more
fragmented around the world.”  Qantas’s debt and equity is currently valued at A$5.8
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s about
2.6 times the A$2.3 billion in earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization the company  recorded  last year.  In 14 takeovers of airlines worth at least $500 million
since 1999, the median multiple has been 6.7 times Ebitda, with
a range of 2.7 to 71, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Qantas expects losses on international routes to more than
double in the year ending June to A$450 million as it struggles
with higher fuel costs and competition. Its domestic division,
with a market share of about 65 percent, will earn A$600 million
before interest and tax.  Cutting Routes  Joyce has already cut unprofitable routes, shed staff and
delayed new aircraft in a bid to turn the operations around.  Emirates Airline, the world’s largest carrier by
international passenger traffic, said yesterday that it was
examining a “commercial arrangement” with Qantas while
stopping short of taking an equity stake in the company.  “The Australian market has been one that is hugely
successful for Emirates,” the company’s president  Tim Clark 
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in Beijing.  Emirates could take a stake of as much as 30 percent in a
Qantas domestic unit if the international operations were
separated, Sydney-based Deutsche Bank analyst Cameron McDonald
wrote in a May 24 note.  A tie-up of some sort between the two airlines makes sense,
International Consolidated Airlines Group SA Chief Executive
Officer  Willie Walsh  said in Beijing today. IAG’s British
Airways unit is a long-standing partner for Qantas on flights
between Australia and  Europe .  Lisa Jamieson, a spokeswoman for Macquarie, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  