-- Rajat Gupta Defense Rests in U.S. Insider-Trading Trial
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-06-12T22:54:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/rajat-gupta-defense-rests-in-u-s-insider-trading-trial.html
Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
director  Rajat Gupta  rested his defense to federal insider-
trading charges without testifying or being allowed to play
wiretapped recordings that his lawyer called “crucial” to his
case.  Defense attorney  Gary Naftalis  told U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff today that Gupta, 63, who ran McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to
2003, had finished offering evidence. During the trial, which
began May 21, the government called 20 witnesses while the
defense called 11 witnesses.  “Defense rests, your honor,” Naftalis said. Summations
are set to begin tomorrow morning, and Rakoff told the jury they
may begin their deliberations late tomorrow afternoon.  Gupta is accused of leaking inside information to Galleon
Group LLC hedge fund co-founder Raj Rajaratnam about Goldman
Sachs and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , where Gupta was also a director.
He’s charged with one count of conspiracy and five counts of
 securities fraud , which carries a maximum term of 20 years in
prison.  ‘Another Person’  The defense, which began June 8, was based in part on a
claim that  David Loeb , another Goldman Sachs executive whose job
required him to be in regular contact with fund managers like
Rajaratnam, was tipping the Galleon co-founder at the same time
that prosecutors allege Gupta was passing nonpublic information.  Rakoff today repeated his earlier ruling barring the
defense from playing two August 2008 wiretapped recordings made
by the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  and e-mails that the
defense claims show Loeb tipping Rajaratnam.  David Frankel , another Gupta attorney, argued that what the
judge called “Loeb evidence” was a “crucial” part of the
defense case and proved “that another person committed an act
of which the defendant stands accused.”  “Loeb had a history of feeding information to
Rajaratnam,” Frankel said, including calling him more than once
on Oct. 23, 2008, the same day prosecutors say Gupta tipped
Rajaratnam about Goldman’s earnings.  Loeb hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing. Prosecutors told
Rakoff at a hearing they had evidence Loeb passed Rajaratnam
information about  Intel Corp ., Apple Inc. and Hewlett-Packard
Co., none of which are involved in Gupta’s case.  Hearsay Ruling  Rakoff today said the evidence pertaining to Loeb was
inadmissible “hearsay.”  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment on Rakoff’s decision or on claims
made by the defense about Loeb.  The tips Gupta allegedly passed include Goldman Sachs
earnings in the first quarter of 2007 and fourth quarter of
2008. Another involved a $5 billion Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
investment in Goldman Sachs on Sept. 23, 2008, and the firm’s
fourth-quarter earnings in 2008.  Prosecutors have said Gupta also told Rajaratnam that
Cincinnati-based P&G planned to sell its Folgers Coffee unit to
J.M. Smucker Co.  Rajaratnam was convicted at a trial last year and is
serving an 11-year prison sentence. He and Gupta are the biggest
figures caught in a nationwide insider-trading probe that began
in October 2009 and has resulted in more than five dozen
arrests.  ‘Took Equity’  The defense has argued that Gupta parted ways with
Rajaratnam after he discovered the  fund manager  had withdrawn
money without his knowledge from the Voyager Fund, an investment
they had created together.  Gupta’s lawyers have said he had no motive to tip
Rajaratnam, pointing to his loss of a $10 million investment in
a Galleon fund and Gupta’s subsequent claim that Rajaratnam
cheated him.  Defense lawyers concluded their case today just as
prosecutors did, by playing a wiretapped call made by the FBI of
Rajaratnam talking on his mobile phone.  During the Oct. 2, 2008, call, Rajaratnam and Sanjay Santhanam, a Galleon portfolio manager, discuss the Voyager
Fund. Rajaratnam had borrowed at least $300 million from Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., which filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 15,
2008, a Galleon fund manager testified.  “Under the circumstances, how are you holding up?”
Santhanam asks Rajaratnam.  “Look, it’s a game,” Rajaratnam replies. “When you take
leverage you, you know. My problem is, I’m a big boy. I hope
Rajat is a big boy.” He added that, “ I didn’t tell him I took
that equity out.”  Upset, Stressed  Gupta decided over the weekend not to testify after his
lawyers told the judge on June 8 that it was “highly likely”
he would take the stand.  Today, Rakoff agreed to allow Gupta’s eldest daughter,
Geetanjali Gupta, to testify about her father’s demeanor from
September 2008 through November 2008, a period when the
government alleges Gupta was passing Rajaratnam tips.  Geetanjali Gupta testified she had several conversations
with her father about his investment with Rajaratnam beginning
on Sept. 20, 2008, when she was celebrating her 30th birthday
with her parents. The discussions continued until Thanksgiving
of 2008, she said.  Gupta “was upset, he was stressed, he was running his
hands through his hair, which he does when he was stressed,”
Geetanjali Gupta testified. “He’s usually a very calm and
collected person.”  ‘Would Not Lie’  The defense also showed jurors an e-mail which Geetanjali
Gupta sent her father on Oct. 29, 2008, that stated, “How bad
are things with the Raj fund?”  She said she had a subsequent discussion with her father
about his investments on the telephone.  During cross-examination, Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky  asked Gupta’s daughter, “You love your father?”  “Yes I do,” she said.  “Would you do anything you could to help your father?”
Brodsky asked.  “I would do many things to help my father, but I would not
lie,” she answered.  Another witness called by the defense today was James Roth,
a Goldman Sachs employee who prepared documents for  Gary Cohn ,
the firm’s president, for a July 31, 2008, visit with Rajaratnam
at Galleon’s Madison Avenue offices.  Cohen Dinner  The defense showed jurors a briefing memo Roth prepared for
the meeting between Goldman Sachs executives at Galleon that
informs Cohn, “You saw Rajaratnam at a dinner hosted by  Steven Cohen  in February 2007,” and another item that stated, “You
saw Rajaratnam at an NYU Child Study Center event in Dec.
2008.”  Yesterday, the defense had Richard Schutte, the former
president of Galleon’s domestic unit, testify about the
relationship between Galleon and Goldman Sachs and that Galleon
had lawful sources of information for its trades.  Defense lawyers also pointed to records showing Gupta in a
meeting about malaria prevention with a United Nations official
around the time he allegedly tipped Rajaratnam to the Buffett
deal.  Character witnesses including Gupta’s childhood friend
testified that Gupta was honest and forthright.  Mobile Phones  The defense had pressed Rakoff to admit e-mails from Loeb
and wiretap recordings of Rajaratnam’s  mobile phones  from Aug.
7, 2008, and Aug. 22, 2008.  According to Frankel, Loeb can be heard on the FBI
recordings telling Rajaratnam that he usually gives information
to  Adam Smith , then a Galleon trader. Smith has pleaded guilty
and is aiding prosecutors.  “Loeb says, ‘Since I’ve normally given this to Adam to
give to you, this goes to you and Adam,’” Frankel said, quoting
from a transcript of a conversation between Loeb and Rajaratnam.
“I give it to a couple of guys on the street, I call you and
Adam first.”  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  