-- Rajat Gupta Lawyers Submit Wiretaps of Goldman’s Loeb
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-06-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/rajat-gupta-lawyers-submit-wiretaps-of-goldman-s-loeb.html
Lawyers for  Rajat Gupta , the former
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director accused at trial of passing
inside tips, said they have “compelling” evidence that bank
executive  David Loeb  shared inside information with Galleon
Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam.  Loeb passed information about  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and Apple Inc. to
Rajaratnam, according to excerpts of two phone calls tapped by
the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  and submitted by Gupta’s
lawyers. The defense obtained the documents after Rakoff ordered
the government to turn over all evidence of other Goldman Sachs
tippers relied on by Rajaratnam.  The Manhattan jury weighing the charges against Gupta, a
former Goldman Sachs director accused of tipping Rajaratnam,
never heard that evidence during his trial. U.S. District Judge
Jed Rakoff ruled that the phone calls and e-mails were
inadmissible hearsay. The defense rested its case yesterday and
the jury may start deliberations this afternoon.  David Frankel , an attorney for Gupta, told Rakoff on June
11 that the evidence about Loeb was “crucial” to the defense
and proved “that another person committed an act of which the
defendant stands accused.”  Gupta is accused of leaking inside information to
Rajaratnam about Goldman Sachs and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , where
Gupta was also a director.  Gupta is charged with one count of conspiracy and five
counts of  securities fraud , which carries a maximum term of 20
years in prison. He has pleaded not guilty to the charges.
Rajaratnam is serving an 11-year prison sentence for insider
trading  ‘Feeding Information’  “Loeb had a history of feeding information to Rajaratnam”
Frankel said. He said there was evidence of Loeb’s tipping,
including repeated calls to the hedge  fund manager  on Oct. 23,
2008, the same day prosecutors say Gupta tipped Rajaratnam about
Goldman Sachs earnings.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney
 Preet Bharara , declined to comment on the defense papers.  “Loeb is still employed by Goldman Sachs,”  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for the New York-based company said
yesterday, declining to comment further on Loeb’s status.  Loeb, a salesman whose job required him to keep in regular
contact with hedge fund managers, hasn’t been accused of
wrongdoing. Prosecutors have said in court that he told
Rajaratnam about Intel, Apple and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , none of
which are involved in Gupta’s case.  “Mr. Loeb’s conduct was entirely consistent with the
securities laws and regulations,” his lawyer, Frank Wohl of
Lankler Siffert & Wohl LLP, said in an e-mailed statement. “He
did not provide any material inside information to Mr.
Rajaratnam or anyone else. Mr. Loeb had no knowledge of any of
the Goldman Sachs information at issue in the case against Mr.
Gupta.”  ‘Big Daddie’  Included in the material Gupta’s team wanted to show the
jury were e-mails in which Loeb calls Rajaratnam “big daddie”
and in which the Goldman Sachs executive allegedly provided
Rajaratnam with what Gupta’s lawyers say is manufacturing data
about Intel and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   “Two illegal tips were captured by the wiretap recordings
of Rajaratnam’s cell phone on Aug. 7, 2008 and Aug. 22, 2008,”
Gupta’s lawyers said in court papers.  On Aug. 5, 2008, Loeb sent an e-mail to his Goldman Sachs
colleague Henry King, an analyst in  Asia , asking if he could
“try to get an innie update,” according to Gupta’s court
papers.  The next day, King responded in an e-mail with the subject
line “[You] would not believe this,” according to the court
papers. Loeb soon replied to King, “craziness doc!!!!!!!!
What’s going on?” according to the defense papers.  Loeb tried calling Rajaratnam at his Galleon office and
then e-mailed him on Aug. 7, 2008, according to the papers.  ‘DR. RR’  “DR. RR re IMPORTANT,” Loeb allegedly wrote to
Rajaratnam. “[I] need to reach [you] with some PARTICULARLY
important data before open if possible.” Loeb also asked
Rajaratnam in the e-mail whether he should “tell ADAM
instead,” according the court papers.  Adam Smith , a former
Galleon trader, has pleaded guilty and is cooperating with the
U.S.  insider-trading  probe.  After the e-mail, Rajaratnam told Loeb to call him on his
mobile phone, which federal authorities were tapping, according
to the court papers. At 8:34 a.m. the two men spoke, Gupta’s
lawyers said.  “Loeb gave Rajaratnam on the call detailed statistics from
his source ‘Henry’ (Henry King) on Intel’s ‘new’ chipset sales
figures,” the defense said in its court filing. That elicited
“two expressions of ‘Wow’ from Rajaratnam,” according to the
court papers.  ‘Protect Henry’  “Loeb explained that Raj should ‘help protect Henry’ by
not sharing this information, which Loeb was disclosing to only
‘a couple of guys on the Street,’” the defense said in its
filing, again purportedly quoting Loeb.  “No, absolutely not, I don’t talk to anybody,” Rajaratnam
responded, according to the filing.  On another wiretapped call on Aug. 22, 2008, “Loeb told
Rajaratnam that Henry had statistics ‘directly from Apple,’
which Loeb was being ‘very careful’ and ‘directed’ about
sharing,” the defense wrote in its filing, quoting Loeb in
part.  Rajaratnam responded, “I’m not talking to anybody,” the
defense wrote.  King, like Loeb, hasn’t been charged with wrongdoing. Two
people familiar with the probe said in February that both men
are the subject of a criminal investigation by U.S. authorities
in  New York .  Gupta’s lawyers completed their case yesterday without
their client testifying. Gupta decided over the weekend not to
testify after his lawyers told the judge on June 8 that it was
“highly likely” he would take the stand.  Voyager Fund  The defense has argued that Gupta parted ways with
Rajaratnam after he discovered the fund manager had withdrawn
money without his knowledge from the Voyager Fund, an investment
they had created together.  Gupta’s lawyers have said he had no motive to tip
Rajaratnam, pointing to his loss of a $10 million investment in
a Galleon fund and Gupta’s subsequent claim that Rajaratnam
cheated him.  Yesterday, Rakoff agreed to allow Gupta’s eldest daughter,
Geetanjali Gupta, to testify about her father’s demeanor from
September 2008 through November 2008, a period when the
government alleges Gupta was passing Rajaratnam tips.  Geetanjali Gupta said she had several conversations with
her father about his investment with Rajaratnam beginning on
Sept. 20, 2008, when she was celebrating her 30th birthday with
her parents. The discussions continued until Thanksgiving of
2008, she said.  Upset, Stressed  Gupta “was upset, he was stressed, he was running his
hands through his hair, which he does when he was stressed,”
Geetanjali Gupta testified. “He’s usually a very calm and
collected person.”  The defense showed jurors an e-mail which Geetanjali Gupta
sent her father on Oct. 29, 2008, that stated, “How bad are
things with the Raj fund?”  She said she had a subsequent phone discussion with her
father about his investments.  During cross-examination, Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky  asked Gupta’s daughter, “You love your father?”  “Yes I do,” she said.  “Would you do anything you could to help your father?”
Brodsky asked.  “I would do many things to help my father, but I would not
lie,” she answered.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  