-- Rand Gains 1st Day in Four Amid Optimism Greece Won’t Exit Euro
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-06-12T15:17:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/rand-gains-first-time-in-four-after-failing-to-breach-resistance.html
The rand gained for the first time
in four days and bonds advanced as speculation  Greece  will
remain in the  euro zone  after elections this weekend bolstered
demand for riskier assets.  South Africa’s currency appreciated as much as 1.1 percent
and traded 0.4 percent stronger at 8.4347 as of 4 p.m. in
Johannesburg. Yields on the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021
dropped four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.61
percent, a three-week low.  Polls show the June 17 election in Greece may be a close
race.  New Democracy , Greece’s largest pro-bailout party, led
anti-bailout Syriza by 22.7 percent to 22 percent, according to
an ANT1 TV poll on June 1, the last date surveys were made
public. An election on May 6 failed to produce a working
government majority. The euro area is  South Africa ’s biggest
regional trading partner, buying 22 percent of its exports.  “Risky assets are in for a bumpy ride in the run-up to
this weekend’s Greek elections,” Nomvuyo Guma, a currency
strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, wrote in
e-mailed comments. “However, given our expectation that Greece
will opt to remain in the euro zone, the rand could regain some
ground.”  The rand’s one-month implied volatility against the dollar
rose 50 basis points today to 21 percent, the highest this year,
as traders anticipate wider swings in the currency in coming
weeks.  Resistance Level  The South Africa currency declined 1.9 percent in the
previous three days on concern  Italy  will become the next focus
of Europe’s debt crisis after  Spain  requested a bailout for its
banks. The rand failed to weaken beyond 8.50, a so-called
resistance level where traders clustered orders to buy the
currency, said Quinten Bertenshaw, a Johannesburg-based analyst
at Tradition Analytics, wrote in e-mailed comments.  “What is interesting to note is the way in which the
dollar-rand has run into resistance towards the 8.50 level in
the previous two trading sessions,” Bertenshaw wrote. “There
is nothing in the charts this morning that changes that.
Consolidation in an 8.38 to 8.52 range seems plausible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  