-- Rangers Faces Liquidation as Taxman Rejects Creditor Plan
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-06-12T13:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/rangers-faces-liquidation-as-taxman-rejects-creditor-plan-1-.html
Rangers Football Club Plc faces
liquidation after the U.K. tax authorities rejected proposals to
let it exit administration, according to Charles Green, who is
leading a group to buy the Scottish  soccer club .  HM Revenue & Customs refused to support a proposal by
Green’s group to pay creditors 8.5 million pounds ($13.2
million) as part of a Company Voluntary Arrangement that would
have seen the club come out of bankruptcy and avoid winding up,
Green said in a  statement  on Rangers’ website.  “I am hugely disappointed by the decision of HMRC not to
support the CVA proposal,” Green said. “I do not see what
benefit will be gained by this decision.”  Rangers owes the tax authorities more than 93 million
pounds in unpaid taxes and two unresolved claims over the use of
employee benefit trusts. In total, the 54-time Scottish soccer
champion owes creditors more than 134 million pounds,
administrators Duff & Phelps said on April 5.  The tax office said winding up Rangers in its current form
will allow a new company to start without any burden.  “A liquidation provides the best opportunity to protect
taxpayers, by allowing the potential investigation and pursuit
of possible claims against those responsible for the company’s
financial affairs in recent years,” HMRC said in a  statement  on
its website. “It also means that the new company will be free
from claims or litigation in a way which would not be achievable
with a CVA. Rangers can make a fresh start.”  Paying Creditors  Creditors are due to meet on June 14 to vote on the CVA
proposals. The amount of money owed to HMRC means they are sure
to fail.  Green’s group will now have to form a new company to buy
Rangers, and creditors will receive 5.5 million pounds, 3
million pounds less than they would have done under the
proposals rejected by HM Revenue and Customs, he said.  “I, along with my investors who believe that Rangers can
have a bright future, will fight tooth and nail to ensure the
Club recovers from this catastrophic phase in its proud
history,” Green said.  Green’s group will look for ways to allow the 26,000
investors in Rangers who will lose their shares as a result of
liquidation to buy shares in the new company, he said.  Green will liaise with Scottish football authorities to
discuss Rangers’ membership of the Scottish Premier League, he
said. The 11 other clubs will have to agree to readmit Rangers
as a new company. Otherwise, Rangers will have to apply to be
admitted to the Scottish Football League and start afresh in the
fourth tier of the country’s soccer league.  Rangers was put into administration on Feb. 14 by previous
owner  Craig Whyte  after HMRC sought to take similar action as a
result of income taxes deducted at source from wages wasn’t
handed over.  Whyte, Murray  Whyte bought an 85 percent stake in Rangers last year from
 David Murray  for 1 pound, in return for repaying 18 million
pounds of loans to Lloyds Banking Group Plc.  The club and Glasgow rival Celtic dominate Scottish soccer,
winning every league championship since 1985, when Aberdeen took
the title. Rangers came second this year after having 10 points
deducted for going into administration.  The two clubs have fan bases that rival some of  Europe ’s
biggest teams. Yet the lack of global interest in the Scottish
league means they can’t generate the amount of income reaped by
teams playing in  England ’s Premier League.  The teams, known as the “Old Firm” and traditionally
divided between Protestant and Catholic areas of Glasgow, also
have been blighted by the sectarian divide among fans. The
Scottish government last year introduced legislation to outlaw
abuse based on religion.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Peter Woodifield at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net . 