-- Treasuries Fall Before U.S. Sells $32 Billion of Notes
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-06-12T16:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/treasuries-remain-higher-on-concern-europe-s-crisis-is-deepening.html
Treasuries fell as the U.S. prepared
to sell $32 billion in three-year notes and traders speculated
Federal Reserve policy makers may increase stimulus to keep the
economic recovery from faltering.  Bonds briefly pared losses after  Fitch Ratings  cut the
credit ratings of 18 Spanish banks, renewing the refuge appeal
of U.S. government  securities . The Treasury will sell $21
billion of 10-year notes tomorrow and $13 billion of 30-year
bonds the next day.  “Supply is probably the biggest factor in the market right
now,” said  Ray Remy , head of fixed income in New York at Daiwa
Capital Markets America Inc., one of 21 primary dealers that
trade directly with the Fed. “That’s why we’ve moved to higher
yields. People think the whole crisis will get worse before it
gets better. I don’t see any optimism.”  The U.S. 10-year  yield  climbed four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 1.63 percent at 12:34 p.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data prices. The 1.75 percent
note due May 2022 dropped 11/32, or $3.44 per $1,000-face
amount, to 101 4/32. U.S. 30-year yields also rose four basis
points, to 2.74 percent.  U.S. 10-year yields fell from 2.30 percent on April 4 to a
record-low 1.44 percent on June 1 as deadlocked Greek elections
deepened euro-area turmoil. Voters in  Greece  will go to the
polls again on June 17.  ’Short’ Bets  “It’s not clear if it will be a strong risk-on trade,”
said  Ian Lyngen , a government-bond strategist at CRT Capital
Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We were weaker overnight
on the ongoing process of calibrating for the implications of
the Spanish bailout.”  Treasuries investors raised bets the price of the
securities will drop and remained “net short” for a second
week, according to a survey by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The proportion of net shorts was unchanged at six
percentage points in the week ending June 11 as outright shorts
rose to 19 percent from 17 percent the previous week and
outright longs rose to 13 percent from 11 percent. A short
position is a bet that an asset will decrease in value, while a
long is a wager it will increase.  The number of neutrals dropped to 68 percent from 72
percent.  A valuation measure showed U.S. government bonds are at
almost the most expensive levels ever. The term premium, a model
created by economists at the  Federal Reserve , was at negative
0.85 percent after reaching negative 0.94 percent, the record,
on June 1. The average over the past year is negative 0.46. A
negative reading indicates investors are willing to accept
yields below what’s considered fair value.  Debt Sales  This week’s auctions will “help offset any flight-to-
Treasury momentum ahead of the Greek elections,” Patrick Gouraud, a fixed-income strategist at Societe Generale SA in New
York, wrote in a note dated today.  The three-year notes on offer today yielded 0.37 percent in
pre-auction trading, compared with 0.36 percent at the previous
offering on May 8. Investors  bid  for 3.65 times the amount for
sale last month, versus an average of 3.38 for the previous 10
auctions.  U.S. government securities gained 3.2 percent this quarter
through yesterday, compared with a 1.9 percent return on the
nation’s corporate debt, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data
showed.  Fitch downgraded the long-term issuer default ratings on
 Spain ’s banks, citing concern about the potential for loan
portfolio to deteriorate further.  Pimco Buys  The Fed purchased $1.876 billion of Treasuries due from
February 2036 to August 2041 today under its program known as
Operation Twist, which aims to replace holdings of shorter-term
securities with longer-term bonds, according to the Fed Bank of
New York’s  website .  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two
rounds of so-called quantitative easing, or QE, from December
2008 to June 2011 to cap borrowing costs and stimulate the
economy.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., raised the  Newport Beach ,
California-based company’s holdings of Treasuries in May.  The company increased the proportion of U.S. government and
Treasury debt in its $260 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  to 35
percent from 31 percent of its asset holdings in April, it said
on its  website . Holdings of mortgages dropped to 52 percent from
53 percent.  Fed Bank of Chicago President  Charles Evans  said he would
support a variety of measures to generate faster job growth,
underscoring his preference for more stimulus.  Fed Stimulus  “I’ve been in favor of pretty much any accommodative
policy I’ve heard about,” Evans, who doesn’t vote on the
 Federal Open Market Committee  this year, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with  Betty Liu .  Fed Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart , who does
have an FOMC vote, said yesterday recent U.S. economic reports
indicate the recovery may be losing momentum. Lockhart
reiterated his view that policy makers need to take further
action to stimulate the economy if it becomes clear growth is
slowing.  “The market is pricing in some action from the Fed, and
the focus has clearly shifted to QE,”  Eric Green , head of rate
strategy in New York at TD Securities Inc., wrote in a note to
clients today.  The difference in yields between 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, which represents
traders’ expectations for the rate of inflation over the life of
the bonds, was at 2.13 percentage points. It touched a 2012 low
of 1.9 percentage points on Jan. 3 and a high of 2.45 percentage
points on March 20. The five-year average is 2.02 percentage
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  