-- Treasuries Fall as U.S. Sells Notes Amid Fed Speculation
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-06-12T21:14:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/treasuries-fall-before-u-s-sells-32-billion-of-notes.html
 Treasuries fell as the U.S. sold
$32 billion of three-year notes and traders speculated that
Federal Reserve officials may add to stimulus to keep the
economic recovery from faltering.  The securities drew a yield of 0.387 percent, compared with
a forecast of 0.383 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of seven
of the Federal Reserve’s 21 primary dealers. Bonds had pared
losses earlier after  Fitch Ratings  cut the ratings of 18 Spanish
banks, boosting the refuge appeal of U.S. government  securities .
The U.S. will sell $21 billion of 10-year securities tomorrow
and $13 billion of 30-year debt the next day.  “The supply is going to have an impact because the market
now is expensive,” said  William Larkin , a fixed-income  money
manager  who helps oversee $500 million at Cabot Money Management
Inc. in Salem,  Massachusetts . “It doesn’t make sense to buy at
these levels. That’s what happens when you get to extreme
valuations. You need more bad news to keep yields down.”  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year  note  rose eight basis
points to 1.67 percent at 4:59 p.m. in  New York , according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader data prices. The 1.75 percent note due May
2022 dropped 23/32, or $7.19 per $1,000-face amount, to 100
24/32.  The  yield  on the current three-year note rose four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 0.4 percent, at 4:59 p.m.
in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader Prices.  The bid-to-cover  ratio , which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of securities offered, was 3.65,
compared with an average of 3.43 for the past 10 sales.  Bid Detail  Indirect bidders , an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 27 percent of the notes, compared with
an average of 37.6 percent for the past 10 sales.  “The auction was good, but not great,” said  Michael Franzese , managing director and head of Treasury trading at
Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York. “They had buyer’s
fatigue. You have a marketplace where yields are close to their
lows and it’s possible  Europe  may get their act together.”  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 12 percent of
the notes at the sale, compared with an average of 9.8 percent
for the past 10 auctions.  The Treasury is selling $66 billion in notes and bonds this
week. The sales will raise $35.3 billion of new cash as maturing
securities held by the public total $30.7 billion, according to
the  U.S. Treasury .  The central bank, which meets June 19-20, bought $2.3
trillion of bonds in two rounds of so-called quantitative
easing, or QE, from December 2008 to June 2011 to cap borrowing
costs and stimulate the economy.  Fed Purchases  The Fed purchased $1.88 billion of Treasuries due from
February 2036 to August 2041 today under its program known as
Operation Twist, which aims to replace holdings of shorter-term
securities with longer-term bonds, according to the Fed Bank of
New York’s  website .  Fed Bank of Chicago President  Charles Evans  said he would
support a variety of measures to generate faster job growth,
underscoring his preference for more stimulus.  “I’ve been in favor of pretty much any accommodative
policy I’ve heard about,” Evans, who doesn’t vote on the
 Federal Open Market Committee  this year, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with  Betty Liu .  U.S. government securities gained 3.2 percent this quarter
through yesterday, compared with a 1.9 percent return on the
nation’s corporate debt, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data
showed.  Fitch Downgrades  Fitch downgraded the long-term issuer default ratings on
 Spain ’s banks, citing concern about the potential for loan
portfolios to deteriorate further.  “People think the whole crisis will get worse before it
gets better,” said  Ray Remy , head of fixed income in New York
at Daiwa Capital Markets America Inc., a primary dealer. “I
don’t see any optimism.”  A valuation measure showed U.S. government bonds are at
almost the most expensive levels ever. The term premium, a model
created by economists at the  Federal Reserve , was at negative
0.81 percent after reaching negative 0.94 percent, the record,
on June 1. The average during the past year is negative 0.46. A
negative reading indicates investors are willing to accept
yields below what’s considered fair value.  Treasuries investors  raised bets  the price of the
securities will drop and remained “net short” for a second
week, according to a survey by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The proportion of net shorts was unchanged at six
percentage points in the week ending June 11 as outright shorts
rose to 19 percent from 17 percent the previous week and
outright longs rose to 13 percent from 11 percent. A short
position is a bet that an asset will decrease in value, while a
long is a wager it will increase.  The number of neutrals dropped to 68 percent from 72
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  