-- Remy Cointreau Full-Year Profit Gains on Asian Demand
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-06-12T07:35:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/remy-cointreau-full-year-profit-gains-on-asian-demand.html
Remy Cointreau SA (RCO) , France’s second-
biggest distiller, said full-year earnings rose 24 percent as it
raised prices and Asian drinkers bought more Remy Martin cognac.  Operating profit excluding one-time items rose to 207.7
million euros ($260 million) in the year ended March 31 from 167
million euros a year earlier, Paris-based Remy said today.
Excluding the effects of acquisitions and currency shifts, or on
an organic basis, profit rose 20 percent, compared with the 21
percent median estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The distiller, along with competitors  Diageo Plc (DGE)  and Pernod
Ricard SA, is selling more expensive varieties of cognac and
whisky to consumers in countries including China, helping drive
improvements in profitability. Asian demand is helping offset
tougher conditions in the U.S. and  Europe , which is suffering
“an uncertain economic and monetary environment,” it said.  “Cognac is experiencing very strong volume growth in
 Asia ,” Barry Gallagher, an analyst at Davy Research, said in a
note, adding that Remy’s debt has been reduced to a record low.  Remy rose as much as 1.2 percent in early Paris trading and
was up 0.9 percent at 82.09 euros as of 9:16 a.m. The stock has
advanced 32 percent this year, the second-biggest gain in the
European Stoxx 600 Food and Beverage Index.  Remy said today it would consider “potential growth
opportunities” while expanding its brands.  Special Dividend  The distiller provided “very little commentary about the
new year,” said  Ian Shackleton , an analyst at Nomura in London,
adding that an analyst meeting in Paris today “will be key.”  The company plans to pay a dividend of 1.30 euros a share
as well as a special dividend of 1 euro a share.  Remy’s debt dropped to 188.6 million euros compared with
328.9 million euros at the end of March 2011, helped by the sale
of its champagne unit. The company said June 5 that it signed a
225 million-euro revolving  credit line  with a group of 11 banks.  The distiller had previously reported a 16 percent increase
in full-year sales to 1.03 billion euros.  Organic operating profit rose 22 percent at Remy’s cognac
unit, the biggest contributor to earnings, led by sales in Asia,
the U.S.,  Russia  and in airports, it said today.  The liqueurs and spirits division’s operating profit rose
14 percent even as “mixed fortunes” in European markets
restrained growth. Cointreau and Mount Gay grew in “key
markets,” the company said, and Metaxa sales rebounded from
two-year declines in  Greece , its main market. The company wrote
down the value of the brand by 45 million euros a year ago.  Current operating margin, a measure of profitability, rose
to 20.2 percent from 18.4 percent a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  