-- Republican Allen Wins Chance at U.S. Senate Seat He Lost
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-06-12T23:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/republican-allen-wins-chance-at-u-s-senate-seat-he-lost.html
George Allen won today’s Republican
Senate primary in Virginia, the  Associated Press  said, giving
him the opportunity to regain the seat he lost six years ago.  Allen, 60, defeated three primary opponents who included
Jamie Radtke, a former chairwoman of the Federation of Virginia
Tea Party Patriots.  The victory by Allen, who also served as Virginia’s
governor, sets up a November matchup with another former
governor and the one-time head of the  Democratic National
Committee ,  Tim Kaine . Senator  Jim Webb , a Democrat who isn’t
seeking re-election, in 2006 ousted Allen from the Senate.  Allen’s bid that year for a second term faltered after a
campaign appearance in August 2006, in which he referred to an
Indian-American Webb campaign aide as “macaca,” a term
considered to be a racial slur in some countries, referring to a
macaque, a kind of monkey. The remark was caught on video and
circulated on the Internet.  Kaine, 54, is a close ally of President  Barack Obama . He
was co-chairman of Obama’s 2008 presidential campaign and was
considered a possible running-mate pick.  Surveys indicate the race, crucial to Democratic hopes of
retaining a Senate majority, will be close. Kaine led Allen by
one percentage point in a poll by Hamden, Connecticut-based
 Quinnipiac University  conducted May 30 to June 4.  Allen will be seeking to become just the third ex-senator
in more than 50 years to return to the chamber after being
removed from it by voters.  Slade Gorton, a Washington state Republican, lost his
Senate seat to Democrat Brock Adams in 1986, then won a race for
an open seat in 1988. Democrat Howard Metzenbaum of Ohio lost
the 1974 Democratic primary for the Senate seat he had been
appointed to earlier that year, then beat a Republican incumbent
in 1976’s general election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  