-- ResCap Offers Investors $8.7 Billion Bankruptcy Claim
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-06-12T18:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/rescap-offers-investors-8-7-billion-bankruptcy-claim.html
Residential Capital LLC, the
bankrupt home-loan company owned by the U.S. government, asked
court permission to settle a legal fight over mortgage-backed
securities by giving investors the right to pursue an
$8.7 billion claim in bankruptcy.  Under the proposed settlement, hundreds of securitization
trusts would drop legal claims related to 1.6 million mortgages
originally worth $221 billion. In return, the investors would
share an $8.7 billion bankruptcy claim.  The investors hold “the single largest set of disputed
claims against the debtors estates by a wide margin, and the
RMBS Trust Settlement would resolve them without the need for
protracted, costly and all-consuming litigation,” ResCap said
in court papers made public today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
 Manhattan .  ResCap, based in  Minneapolis , filed for bankruptcy May 14
with plans to sell most of its assets and to resolve lawsuits
related to mortgage-backed securities.  The company today won approval from U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Martin Glenn to pay wages and other routine bills. Glenn said he
would also approve an agreement between ResCap and its owner,
 Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , to continue sharing certain business
services.  Loan Portfolio  Ally, a Detroit-based bank that specializes in  car loans ,
is 74 percent-owned by the  U.S. Treasury  after receiving a
bailout. Ally has agreed to buy a portfolio of loans from ResCap
for $1.6 billion and ResCap’s agreement to settle legal claims
against its parent, according to court papers.  Ally’s board supported ResCap’s bankruptcy filing in part
to resolve billions of dollars in potential legal claims related
to mortgage-backed securities.  The proposed Ally settlement is separate from the
$8.7 billion offer with investors who bought mortgage securities
packaged by ResCap.  That offer doesn’t guarantee the investors would split
$8.7 billion. That number would be used to calculate how much
cash investors would receive once ResCap sells its assets and
develops a reorganization plan to distribute the proceeds among
its creditors. In bankruptcy, creditors rarely receive the full
amount of what they are owed and often fight with each other
over who gets paid first.  Stalking Horse  Next week, ResCap will return to court seeking approval to
sell a loan portfolio at an auction in which Ally would be the
initial bidder. ResCap will also seek approval for a similar
deal with an affiliate of  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , which
is seeking to buy the company’s mortgage lending and servicing
business for $2.4 billion. The Fortress affiliate, Nationstar
Mortgage Holdings Inc., would also serve as the so-called
stalking-horse, or initial, bidder at an auction.  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. has asked Glenn
for permission to replace Fortress as the stalking-horse bidder.
ResCap attorney Larren Nashelsky told Glenn today that the
company still hasn’t decided how it will respond to Berkshire’s
offer.  “We have to decide with our client what it all means,”
Nashelsky said in court.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  