-- Hedge Funder Cohen Eyes Rothko, $25 Million Richter Sells
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-06-13T17:56:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/richter-twombly-lead-2-billion-basel-art-fair.html
A Gerhard Richter painting with a
price of between $20 million and $25 million led sales at the
world’s biggest fair of modern and contemporary art where U.S.
billionaires  Steven Cohen  and  Jerry Speyer  were among the VIP
visitors.  The New York-based collector Alberto Mugrabi and U.K.
artist Tracey Emin joined other well-known faces at the UBS-
sponsored Art Basel in Switzerland, now in its 43rd edition,
with 300 galleries from 36 countries.  Richter’s monumental 1986 red, blue and yellow abstract
“A.B. Courbet” was sold by  Pace  Gallery of New York on behalf
of an unidentified collector. The dealership’s staff members
confirmed the transaction today, saying the buyer was a U.S.
based collector, though they wouldn’t say if the work had sold
within the asking range.  The German artist is on a bull run at auctions, with a
record $21.8 million paid at Christie’s International on May 8
for the 1993 painting “Abstraktes Bild (798-3).” Richter’s
average auction price in 2012 is $3.1 million, compared to
$290,112 in 2009, according to the  Artnet  database.  A 1954  Mark Rothko  abstract from a Swiss collection,
featuring a block of orange above a band of pale pink, remained
unsold by the second afternoon, priced at $78 million via
London-based  Marlborough Fine Art .  Auction Records  Like Richter, it was testing confidence at the top end of
the market with prices that reflected auction records for the
artists achieved in May. The price is pitched just below the
record $86.9 million achieved for a 1961 abstract at Christie’s
in New York, also on May 8.  “Negotiations are still cooking,” Marlborough’s director
Gilbert Lloyd said in an interview. South American and Russian
clients were interested in the work, he said. Frank Auerbach’s
1985 painting “Head of J.Y.M.,” priced at 550,000 pounds
($857,200), featured among the gallery’s first-day sales.  “It’s quite classical and safe this year,” the Brussels-
based art adviser  Henry Bounameaux  said in an interview. “I’m
seeing a lot of familiar names. It must reflect what is going on
in the economy. No one knows what is going to happen, and yet
the art market still goes on.”  The diamond dust-encrusted 1981 Andy Warhol painting
“ Joseph Beuys ” was among the first day’s sales. This had been
marked at about $10 million on the booth of the  New York  dealer
 Acquavella . It was also purchased by a U.S.-based collector.  Hirst Sculpture  Damien Hirst’s 2006 sculpture “Stripper,” a vitrine
containing hundreds of surgical instruments, was also available,
priced at 3.75 million pounds on the booth of  White Cube . The
London-based dealership had sold several other works, including
Mark Bradford’s 2012 mixed-media painting, “Witch in a Bottle,”
for $550,000.  Art Basel remains the must-visit fair for curators,
advisers and collectors in an increasingly crowded calendar.
This year, the preview was extended to two days to meet growing
demand from both established collectors and new buyers looking
to art as an alternative to turbulent financial markets.  Cohen, founder of the hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors LP,
and Speyer, chief executive of the property developers Tishman
Speyer, were among the select “First Choice” invitees who
arrived in pouring rain for privileged access to the fair before
the main crowd of VIPs was admitted at 3 p.m yesterday.  Gagosian’s Picasso  Cohen, wearing a baseball cap with the logo “NERO,” was
spotted shaking hands with the dealer  Larry Gagosian  on a booth
packed with museum-quality works by established artists such as
Warhol, Hirst,  Pablo Picasso  and  Robert Rauschenberg . This year,
 Gagosian  brought an estimated $250 million of works to a fair
that has inventory valued at about $2 billion.  Though the preview was dominated by art-fair regulars,
several dealers reported selling to new clients.  “I sold works priced at more than $1 million to a
Scandinavian and an Israeli buyer I hadn’t met before,” said
the Swiss dealer  Karsten Greve , who has the 1966 Cy Twombly
blackboard painting “Hill (Rome),” tagged on his booth at more
than $12 million.  New York-based  Skarstedt Gallery  was one of several
dealerships to be enthusiastic about the new tiered two-day
preview at  Art Basel .  “It’s good to be able to talk to important collectors
without being interrupted,” said Per Skarstedt, gallery
director, who sold a 1984 Albert Oehlen self-portrait for
between $1.5 million and $2 million. The 1987 Rosemarie Trockel
knitted painting “Made in Western Germany” sold for $1
million.  Hufkens’s Bourgeois  A lyrical Louise Bourgeois 2010 mixed media work on paper,
“A Baudelaire (#9) The Impossible,” was sold by Brussels-based
dealer  Xavier Hufkens  to a European collector. It had an asking
price of $1.4 million.  The dealer, in common with most exhibitors interviewed by
Bloomberg News, described levels of business as about the same
as last year. He was also another of a majority of exhibitors
who expressed enthusiasm for the two-day preview.  “You can spend much more time with collectors and actually
talk about art, yet they still feel the pressure to buy,”
Hufkens said. “It wasn’t good when people were pushing each
other aside to get into the fair.”  Other exhibitors, who declined to be named, were unhappy
about having to class valued clients as either “First Choice”
or ordinary VIPs. Some had been reluctant to hand over client
lists to Art Basel, which had issued the VIP invitations, rather
than the galleries themselves.  Todd Levin  “It feels more blue-chip and thoughtful this year,” the
New York-based adviser  Todd Levin  said in an interview. “The
market used to be shaped like a bell-curve. Now there are just
two spikes. One for the top artists, and the other for younger
names. It’s difficult for the stuff in between.”  The U.S. artist Rudolf Stingel was one of the blue-chip
names in demand. His “Untitled (Paula),” based on an old black
and white photograph of the New York gallerist  Paula Cooper 
smoking a cigarette, was sold by Cooper to a European private
institution for about $3 million in the Art Unlimited sector.  Hauser & Wirth  sold the 1978  Philip Guston  canvas
“Orders” for $6 million and the 1993 Bourgeois mixed media
sculpture “Arched Figure” for $2 million. Both were bought by
European collectors.  The New York dealer Tony Shafrazi was also breaking new
ground by giving over his booth to a one-man show of his own
artworks. The brightly-colored “tablets,” combining photographic
images with text, are priced at $50,000 to $150,000, said
gallery staff member John J. Czaplicki, who would not give
details of confirmed sales.  Art Basel runs at the Messe Basel through June 17. The
fair’s specialist offshoot Design Miami/Basel runs concurrently
nearby, as do the satellite contemporary-art shows Liste, Volta
and Scope at other venues in the Swiss city.  Art Basel has offshoots in  Miami Beach  (Dec. 6-9) and  Hong
Kong  (May 23-26 2013),  Information:  http://www.artbasel.com/go/id/ss/lang/eng/   (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  Muse highlights include:  James Pressley  on books and
 Warwick Thompson  on London theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in Basel,  Switzerland , at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 