-- Romney Aide Oversees Fundraising That Makes Him Cash, Too
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-06-12T19:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/romney-aide-oversees-fundraising-that-makes-him-cash-too.html
Two years after  Mitt Romney ’s first
run for president and about a year before the official start of
his current one, aide  Spencer Zwick  took his pitch to coffee
with a Washington lobbyist.  The argument, recalled the lobbyist, was simple: Romney’s
qualified, ready, and has no skeletons in his closet -- and if
anyone would know, it would be Zwick.  Few advisers are as close to Romney, 65, as Zwick, the 32-
year-old aide who’s spent nearly all of his professional life
working for the presumptive Republican presidential nominee. For
about a decade, Zwick has been by Romney’s side, traveling from
the spires of Salt Lake City to the halls of the Massachusetts
statehouse.  Now, as Romney takes his fundraising effort into overdrive
in preparation for the fall election, he’s once again entrusted
the task of bankrolling his campaign to Zwick, who is so close
to the Romney family that he’s often referred to as their
“sixth son” by campaign workers.  “I feel close to him and his family,” Zwick said in a
June 8 phone interview. “That allows me to certainly convey
with even greater passion my willingness to do anything I can to
help him and his cause.”  Their relationship helps Zwick sell the campaign to donors,
who say they are getting a direct line to Romney through him.  Proximity to Mitt  “The number one thing is that he’s got such a good
relationship with the candidate himself,” said  Woody Johnson ,
the owner of the New York Jets football team and head of
Romney’s fundraising in the New York region. “It’s just his
proximity to Mitt.”  It’s also a connection that has made millions for Zwick.
His fundraising consulting firm, SJZ LLC, has collected nearly
$7.5 million from Romney’s presidential bid, making it the
campaign’s third highest paid vendor. In April, the company
received $900,000 from the campaign, 7.16% of the total
expenditures.  In addition to that firm, Zwick in 2008 began meeting with
major campaign donors about a month after Romney ended his first
White House quest to raise money for a  private equity  fund Zwick
was starting with Romney’s son, Tagg. Two of the early $10-
million-dollar investors were Romney and his wife, Ann. When it
opened, the firm was headquartered in the same office building
as the Romney campaign offices and press aide  Eric Fehrnstrom  at
times helped with media strategy.  Zwick-Romney Firm  Solamere Capital, named after a wealthy Utah ski area where
the Romney’s have a vacation home, is in line to collect at
least $16.8 million in fees over the next six years, according
to a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. When it
came time to select a speaker for the company’s first investor
conference, the choice was obvious: the former  Massachusetts 
governor.  “Zwick’s focus has always been Romney,” said Kirk Jowers,
a former Romney aide and director of the University of Utah’s
Hinckley Institute of Politics. “And there’s been plenty to
keep him busy.”  Outraising Obama  Last month, Zwick and his team outraised President  Barack Obama ’s campaign for the first time. The Romney campaign and the
 Republican National Committee  raised nearly $77 million in May
compared with $60 million raised Obama and the  Democratic
National Committee .  Romney yesterday raised more than $3 million at a
fundraiser in Atlanta, where about 900 people paid $1,000,
$5,000 or $50,000 apiece for dinner and a reception with the
candidate. Today, he greeted 150 donors at the Isleworth country
club, a gated community in Florida that’s home to several
professional golfers.  Zwick’s performance has impressed even his rivals. After
Romney lost in the 2008 Republican primary battle, top finance
aides to the winner, Senator  John McCain  of Arizona, invited
Zwick and several of his fundraisers for a meeting to discuss
their strategy.  Over dinner in a private room of a Northern  Virginia 
steakhouse, Zwick described Romney’s fundraising operation,
including its software, dubbed ComMITT, that was exclusively
designed for the campaign.  “It was very impressive and very helpful,” said Fred Malek, a co-chairmen of McCain’s finance committee.  Different Focus  Unlike last election, when the Romney campaign focused
largely on a regional network of donors, Zwick said this year
they are building out an organization structured around
industries --including  Wall Street  -- or interest groups such as
 Israel  supporters.  “You have groups of industries or affinity groups that are
willing to organize around  Governor Romney  because of issues
that they care about,” said Zwick. “My whole hope in the
fundraising is that we can go from a candidacy to a cause.”  The fundraising software has been updated to allow donors
who solicit contributions from friends to track from an iPad or
mobile phone what people in their network have given.  “One thing I’ve learned from the governor is that if you
can’t measure it, you can’t manage it,” said Zwick.  Donors and Romney staff members describe an interwoven
relationship between the candidate and his aide, based on a deep
level of trust, hard work, and a shared background.  ‘Buttoned-Down’  “There are a number of similarities,” said  Staples Inc. (SPLS) 
founder Tom Stemberg, a long-time Romney friend and donor.
“Spencer, very much like Mitt, is incredibly low-key, buttoned-
down, and well-prepared.”  Like Romney, Zwick is Mormon and a graduate of  Brigham
Young University . His father, W. Craig Zwick, is a member of the
First Quorum of the Seventy, a body of priests charged with
administering church policy nationally. The family company,
Zwick Construction, has built important church buildings across
the country, including the Church Museum of Art and History and
the Family History Library in Salt Lake City.  “They understand each other,” said U.S. Representative
Jason Chaffetz, a Republican from Utah and Romney backer.
“Spencer knows what the governor wants and needs and Governor
Romney flat-out likes being around him.”  Language Fluency  Fluent in Spanish, Portuguese and Thai, Zwick was
volunteering as a translator for the 2002  Salt Lake City 
Olympics organizing committee when he was tapped to become
Romney’s personal aide. After the games were over, Romney asked
the then-22-year-old to move to  Boston  to work on his 2004
gubernatorial campaign. That led to a position on Romney’s
transition team and appointment as his deputy chief of staff in
the statehouse.  When Romney started exploring a bid for the presidency,
Zwick was asked in 2005 to figure out how to start a campaign.
He realized that Romney would need political veterans to run the
campaign machine.  “But I did tell him that I thought I could help him raise
some money and build a national network,” Zwick said in an Oct.
4, 2010, interview for an on-line video series produced by
Brigham Young University.  From his work as founder of private equity firm Bain
Capital LLC, Romney had connections to rich investors across the
country. Zwick began reaching out to those associates, some of
whom were surprised by the aide’s youthful appearance. “Spencer
was probably in diapers when I began raising money for Romney,”
said Connecticut Republican  Tom Foley , who first donated to
Romney for his unsuccessful 1994 Senate run in Massachusetts --
when Zwick was 14 years old.  Vacation Home Visits  To maintain relationships in between campaigns, past and
potential donors have been invited to Romney’s New Hampshire
vacation home on Lake Winnipesaukee for lunch, policy talks and
boat rides. Zwick even helped arrange for some to interact with
his boss on trips abroad.  A trip to Israel in January 2011 helped convince Jets-owner
Johnson to back Romney. Meetings with top officials, including
the Israeli and Palestinian prime ministers, started at seven in
the morning and went late into the evening. At the end of the
long days, Johnson recounted, the group would ask Romney to
analyze the meetings.  “He was very fair and open and really very impressive,”
said Johnson. “I got to know Mitt a lot from a foreign policy
standpoint.”  Policy Briefings  Today, donors regularly receive e-mail missives from staff
members on the trail and invitations for policy briefings and
conference calls with top aides.  At a May 14 breakfast hosted by Johnson, donors were able
to put questions to Ohio Republican Senator  Rob Portman , a
potential vice presidential candidate, on policy positions and
strategy, said Georgette Mosbacher, a  New York  fundraiser who
attended the meeting.  “They call me, they send me e-mails,” she said. “That’s
unbelievable to take that kind of time.”  The outreach stretches across the globe. During a
fundraising swing through New York City last month, the Romney
campaign hosted video conferences with donors in Hong Kong and
Singapore.  In July, Johnson hosted a fundraiser in London at the
Dartmouth House, a building close to Hyde Park that features
marble fireplaces, walnut paneling, and a painted ceiling.  Zwick, too, is in constant contact with supporters. The
father of three young boys travels constantly and is notorious
for responding immediately to emails -- even those sent at one
or two in the morning, say donors. “You e-mail him, you have an
e-mail back in five minutes. Maybe ten,” said Bobbie Kilberg, a
long-time Republican fundraiser from Virginia.  And he is rarely spotted without a mobile phone to his ear.
Last month, in between fundraisers at the Biltmore Hotel in
Coral Gables, Florida, he paced between the columns in the
opulent lobby working his phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  