-- Romney Outlines Health-Care Plan as Supreme Court Weighs Law
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-06-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/romney-outlines-health-care-plan-as-supreme-court-weighs-law.html
 Mitt Romney pledged to replace the
U.S. health-care overhaul with a plan relying on private markets
to provide “access to good health care” for every American, as
he revived attacks on President  Barack Obama ’s signature
achievement that the U.S.  Supreme Court  is preparing to rule on.  The presumptive Republican presidential nominee told small-
business owners in  Orlando , Florida, that he would implement
policies, including tax breaks, aimed at helping the private
market care for the uninsured and those with preexisting medical
conditions.  “Free enterprise is the way America works,” Romney told
the group gathered in the warehouse of Con Air Industries, which
makes air filters. “We need to apply that to health care.”  The Supreme Court is expected to issue a decision on the
Affordable Care Act by the end of the month, ruling on a law
that would expand insurance to at least 30 million people and
transform an industry that accounts for 18 percent of the  U.S.
economy .  Romney, 65, said if the justices fail to overturn the law
completely, he would repeal the remaining pieces on his first
day as president by granting waivers for every state to opt out
of the restrictions.  “Regardless of what they do, it’s going to be after the
next president to either repeal and replace or replace
Obamacare,” Romney said. “And I intend to do both.”  Reducing Benefits  Democrats charged Romney with trying to roll back the
benefits of the law for young people, women, and the uninsured.  “For too long, American families have faced a choice
between going bankrupt to afford the care they need or going
without that care at all, and  Mitt Romney  wants to take us back
to that time,” Obama campaign spokeswoman Lis Smith said in a
statement.  As Democrats attack Romney’s health-care policies, Obama
said his opponent is promoting economic plans focused on cutting
funding for national priorities in education, transportation and
research.  “You’ll never see a sharper contrast between the two
parties in the vision that they have for where this country
needs to go,” Obama told a crowd of Democrats at a private home
in Owings Mills,  Maryland .  Obama was raising more than $3 million yesterday in
Maryland and the battleground state of  Pennsylvania , seeking to
maintain a cash advantage over Romney. He’s holding six
fundraisers, three in each state, bringing to 160 the number of
events to solicit cash for his campaign since he declared his
candidacy for re-election on April 4, 2011.  Republican Rhetoric  He dismissed Republican rhetoric on the economy by saying
it could be boiled down to fewer than the 140 characters allowed
in a post on Twitter.  “You can pretty much put their campaign on a tweet and
have characters to spare,” he said.  Standing in front of a banner reading “Repeal & Replace
Obamacare,” Romney said caring for the uninsured is his top
priority. He would put that responsibility on the states and not
require people to obtain insurance or face financial penalties,
as the federal law does. To provide the care, Romney would
divert money from Medicaid, the federal health program for the
poor, and other funding to local governments.  He also vowed to maintain coverage for people with
preexisting conditions, though only those who risk losing their
benefits when they change jobs or get laid off.  Limited Provision  Romney’s proposal is a more limited version of a provision
included in Obama’s Affordable Care Act, which requires
insurance companies to cover all people with preexisting
conditions -- even first-time buyers.  Between 36 million and 122 million adults, or from 20
percent to 66 percent of the U.S. adult population, reported
having medical conditions that could result in health insurance
coverage restrictions, according to a March 27 report by the
Government Accountability Office, Congress’s auditing arm.  It’s unclear how insurance companies could cover those with
preexisting conditions without the individual mandate for
everyone to buy insurance -- part of the law Romney has said he
would repeal if it isn’t struck down by the Supreme Court.  Romney also didn’t mention the provision in the current
law, which Obama signed in March 2010, that lets children stay
on their parents’ plan until the age of 26.  Health Insurance  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) ,  Aetna Inc. (AET)  and  Humana Inc. (HUM)  said
this week they would save some of the law’s provisions,
including letting young adults stay on parents’ plans,
regardless of how the court rules.  Without the law, parents would have to pay for their
child’s coverage with after-tax dollars, resulting in a higher
tax bill.  Though Romney first laid out his health-care plans in a May
2011 speech in  Michigan , he largely avoided the issue in the
Republican primaries while his rivals sought to use it against
him.  During his 2003-2007 term as governor of  Massachusetts ,
Romney helped craft health-care legislation that included the
insurance mandate for all state residents. Aspects of the
federal law are similar to the Massachusetts measure, including
the provision that adults must buy insurance or face a financial
penalty.  Santorum Criticism  Romney, while not retreating from his support of the
Massachusetts law, has said he doesn’t back imposing its
provisions nationwide. His chief rival in the Republican race,
former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum , argued Romney’s
record meant he couldn’t provide an effective contrast to Obama
on the health-care issue.  Having locked down his party’s nomination, Romney is
seeking to depict the Affordable Care Act as another example of
how Obama is out of touch with the economic anxieties of many
Americans.  Romney seized on a statement the president made about the
law in an interview yesterday. When a television reporter in
Iowa asked Obama about a small business that blamed its closing
on the health-care law, Obama replied, “That’s going to be hard
to explain.”  Obama continued: “The only folks that have been impacted
in terms of the health-care bill are insurance companies who are
required to make sure that they’re providing preventive care, or
they’re not dropping your coverage when you get sick. So this
particular company probably wouldn’t have been impacted by
that.”  Romney yesterday called the response “something else that
shows just how out of touch” Obama is.  “It was like: really? Have you not been out talking to
small businesses and hearing what they have to say,” he told
 Florida  donors gathered for a fundraiser this afternoon at the
Isleworth country club, a gated community that is home to many
professional golfers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net 
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  