-- Russia Sending Attack Helicopters to Syria, Clinton Says
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-06-12T18:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/russia-sending-attack-helicopters-to-syria-clinton-says.html
Russia  is shipping attack
helicopters to  Syria ’s Assad regime that is fighting to defeat a
15-monthlong uprising, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said.  “We are concerned by the latest information we have that
there are attack helicopters on the way from Russia to Syria,
which will escalate the conflict quite dramatically,” Clinton
said at a conference today in Washington.  Pentagon spokesman Captain John Kirby said he couldn’t
confirm Clinton’s information, although “we know that they are
using helicopter gunships now to attack their own people.”
State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  declined to
disclose the source of Clinton’s information or to elaborate on
it.  In Syria, there are signs that government forces have been
massing in the past day or two around Aleppo, Syria’s largest
city and financial center, Clinton said.  “That could very well be a red line for the Turks in terms
of their strategic and national interests,” she said. “We are
watching this very carefully.”  Clinton said the U.S. supports the efforts by United
Nations- Arab League  envoy  Kofi Annan  to form a group of nations
that includes Russia to develop a “road map for political
transition” in Syria.  While Russia has advocated including Iran in talks about a
Syrian transition, Clinton said that would be a “grave error”
because Iran has trained and supported both Syrian government
forces and militias blamed for civilian massacres.  Clinton said the U.S. has a time line to see if Annan can
be successful in efforts to quell the violence and initiate a
shift that removes Syrian President Bashar al-Assad from power.  The “outer limit” is mid-July, when the UN Security
Council is to consider whether to extend the observer force, she
said. Without “discernible” progress, she said, “it will be
very difficult to extend a mission that is increasingly
dangerous for the observers on the ground.”  Speaking at the same event, Israeli President  Shimon Peres 
said the Arab League should take the lead on resolving the
Syrian crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  