-- Russia Starts Tax Probe Against Anti-Putin Opposition’s Sobchak
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2012-06-12T15:20:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/russians-protest-against-putin-after-opposition-homes-searched.html
Russian authorities have started a
tax probe against Ksenia Sobchak, a member of the opposition
that organizes the protests against President  Vladimir Putin 
that sparked searches of protest leaders’ homes.  Law enforcement  officers have asked Sobchak, a reality-show
host and daughter of the late former St. Petersburg Mayor
Anatoly Sobchak under whom Putin once served, to explain the
origin of $1.8 million of cash found in her apartment, the
Investigative Committee said on its website today. Sobchak
didn’t respond to phone calls and e-mails seeking comment.  Putin returned to the Kremlin for a third term last month,
facing the biggest challenge to his authority as a disputed
parliamentary election in December triggered a wave of protests.
A march through central Moscow today, a national holiday to mark
Russia’s departure from the  Soviet Union , drew 18,000 people and
ended without arrest, Moscow police said on its website.
Organizers estimated the crowd at 100,000.  “I’m very positive about the event we had today,” Sergei Parkhomenko, an organizer, said by phone after the rally. “It
showed that if lots of people in a good mood come, it’s not easy
to spoil the rally with provocative actions.”  Demonstrators clashed with police at a rally on May 6, on
the eve of Putin’s inauguration, when dozens of opposition
leaders including Sergei Udaltsov,  Boris Nemtsov  and anti-
corruption blogger Alexey Navalny were detained.  Putin’s Birthday  Udaltsov, one of the organizers who was questioned by
police, and Nemtsov, a former deputy prime minister, were among
the protesters today. Udaltsov told the crowd he flouted a
police summons to attend the rally, calling on law enforcement
to free protesters jailed last month. The opposition leader also
called for additional protests on Oct. 7, Putin’s birthday.  Navalny, Udaltsov and Ilya Yashin will be charged with
organizing a riot on May 6, the Moscow-based news service
Interfax said, citing Yashin. They are currently being
questioned as witnesses, he told Interfax.  “We were going to stay at the dacha today until we heard
about these insane raids on Navalny and Sobchak,” Elena
Karpova, a Moscow teacher, said at the rally. “So much for
Putin 2.0.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  