-- Russian Rating Held Back by Politics, Lack of Overhaul, S&P Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-06-12T14:43:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/russian-rating-held-back-by-politics-lack-of-overhaul-s-p-says.html
Russian political risk and the lack
of an economic overhaul by President  Vladimir Putin ’s
administration are holding back the country’s sovereign-credit
rating,  Standard & Poor’s (SPY)  said.  Russia is rated BBB by S&P, the second-lowest investment
grade, on a par with Brazil, Peru and  Bulgaria . The economy’s
medium-term growth potential of about 3.5 percent “could
increase quite a bit” if Russia implemented structural changes
to its economy and strengthened its political and legal
framework, Kai Stukenbrock, a Frankfurt-based director at S&P’s
sovereign-ratings group, told a seminar today in London.  Putin, 59, returned to the Kremlin last month for a third
term as president, replacing his protégé  Dmitry Medvedev , amid
the biggest challenge to his authority after disputed
parliamentary election in December triggered a wave of street
protests. About 18,000 anti-Putin demonstrators gathered in
central Moscow today, the capital’s police said in a statement.  “In  Russia  we have quite some concerns about the
accountability of political, economic and legal institutions,”
Stukenbrock said. “It’s the political risk and the weakness of
political institutions that is holding the ratings down.”  S&P, which hasn’t changed its stance on Russia since
downgrading it one step on Dec. 8, 2008, has a stable outlook on
the rating. Gross domestic product, which shrank 7.9 percent in
2009, grew 4.9 percent from a year earlier in the first quarter.  Economic Priorities  Russia’s benchmark Micex stock index has lost 4.6 percent
this year, while the ruble has declined 2.6 percent against the
 U.S. dollar , the 10th-worst performance among emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Markets are closed today for a
public holiday.  Putin said after taking office last month that his economic
priorities included boosting  labor productivity , adding 25
million “high-quality” jobs and lifting Russia to 50th from
120th in the  World Bank ’s Doing Business ranking by 2015.  Medvedev, who succeeded him as premier, said in April the
government must continue working to diversify the economy away
from industries reliant on natural resources and he wasn’t
“entirely satisfied” with the results of efforts in this
regard during his four years as president.  “There are still a lot of structural obstacles to growth
including the very strong and very dominant role of the
government in the economy,” Stukenbrock said. “Corruption is
an issue, the business climate, the investment climate -- these
are all issues. There is still not a decisive drive to tackle
these.”  ‘Important Positive’  “Encouraging signs” include discussions on introducing a
fiscal rule to cap  government spending  and central bank efforts
to make the ruble more flexible, which provides the economy with
“a buffer” when oil prices fall, Stukenbrock said. “This is
an important positive factor in our view,” he said.  About $10 billion a month of capital left Russia from
January to April, central bank data show. Overall outflows of
$80.5 billion last year were the second-highest since the bank
started keeping records in 1994.  “There could be a cautious trend toward liberalization,
but I wouldn’t bet my money on it,” Stukenbrock said. “That
could also shape our view of the political risks and maybe lead
to a more favorable assessment on our side.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in  London  at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  