-- Save Europe’s Marriage With a Trial Separation
-- B y   R o b e r t   H o c k e t t
-- 2012-06-12T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/save-europe-s-marriage-with-a-trial-separation.html
The euro is not a fundamentally bad
idea. It just needs a timeout while some critical kinks are
worked out.  Europe  is at least two economies: a northern tier we might
call Hanseatica and a southern one we will call Mediterranea.
The Hanseatic economy is primarily commercial and industrial,
and relies on exports. The Mediterranean economy remains more
pastoral and agricultural, and relies on debt for its purchases
of manufactured goods from the north.  The divide, rooted in topography, climate and culture, is
diminishing, but is still in place. This simple distinction
underwrites an imbalance -- one that the shared currency
magnifies and worsens.  The euro is undervalued as a Hanseatic currency and
overvalued as a Mediterranean one. Northern exports to the south
are therefore unnaturally cheap, as are the charges on the
credit extended to southerners who are buying the goods.
Hanseatic credit balances build up in parallel with
Mediterranean debt. In time, the southerners seem like deadbeats
to northerners, while northerners look like neo-colonialists to
the south. Resentments and acrimony ensue.  We have seen this before. Colonial  North America  was to
 London  and south Britain much what Mediterranea is to Hanseatica
today -- largely pre-industrial and dependent on the credit
extended by the seller. Eventually, the Mason-Dixon line roughly
split the U.S. in a manner not unlike the division in Europe
today: an agricultural south and a more commercial, industrial
north.  Another Example  Today we find a like phenomenon in “Chimerica,” the de
facto currency union that makes Chinese exports to the U.S., and
American borrowing from  China , unnaturally cheap -- with long-
term consequences not unlike those seen in Europe.  The makings of an answer to the problem in Europe today can
be found in the late 19th and early 20th century American
experience. Three points are critical.  First, the U.S. did not really have a uniform currency
until then. Second, once it adopted one -- administered by a
single central bank, the  Federal Reserve , as instituted in 1913
-- considerable local autonomy on credit and monetary policy
remained in the form of distinct regional Fed banks, operating
under board oversight, that were responsive to distinct regional
market conditions.  Third, the U.S. steadily took on the attributes of a
fiscal-transfer union in this period, with northern money
flowing south via federal tax and spending policy. Residents of
 Mississippi , for example, still receive much more than one
dollar back from the federal government for each dollar they pay
in to the federal treasury.  What is the analogue for 21st century Europe? Take the three
points in reverse order.  First, a would-be united Europe must ultimately assume the
attributes of a transfer union. The Dutch, Finns and Germans
will in effect have to send money down south at some point as
 New Yorkers  and New Englanders do for Alabama and  Arkansas , not
simply lend it, if they are serious about having one economy.
One day the funds might flow in a different direction, as with
some southern U.S. states today. The point is that they --
funds, not merely credit -- have to flow. The union’s the thing.  Second, until such arrangements are worked out and put into
place, the  European Central Bank  must operate a bit more like
the U.S. Fed did during much of the 20th century and even to
some extent today with its regionally federated structure. At a
minimum, there should be a North ECB and South ECB, operating in
concert and presumably under one board -- to manage two closely
related, but still partly distinct, currencies.  Local Control  The North and South ECB branches should likewise maintain
partly distinct credit and monetary policies. And like the U.S.
Fed regional banks, whose boards are partly made up of local
economists, bankers and other business leaders, they must be
managed partly by those most affected -- northern Europeans in
the North ECB, southern Europeans in the South ECB.  Jointly managing the intra-euro  exchange rate  -- by
adjusting the relative values of the two currencies in response
to buildups of northern surpluses and southern debt -- will
address the imbalances that caused much of Europe’s difficulty
in the first place. Excess borrowing or inflationary policies in
the south, for example, would devalue its currency relative to
the north’s, making it harder to borrow and buy more imports. As
for the north, an excessive reliance on exports to the south
would yield a similar self-correcting effect: The appreciation
of its currency would make its goods too expensive for
Mediterranea to buy.  Finally, the paired currencies could bear names that
reflect their temporary separation. Call them euro 1 and euro 2
-- or perhaps Hansa euro and Medi euro. The point is to preserve
the north-south distinctions for the time being, while still
showing to all that the two would at some point be once again
joined.  One Europe is still the endgame. The two euro zones’ long-
term unity and mutual devotion would survive -- and be better
for -- a needed timeout. Work would immediately begin on the
full fiscal and transfer union, and a good plan and firm
commitment would counteract any panic effects that a strategic
retreat might have.  It is said that the euro, like the European Union itself,
is as much a political project as it is an economic one. If
Europeans still think the political project is worthwhile, then
it is worth showing some flexibility in repairing the still-
developing economic substratum. The way to do that is with a
federalized ECB and two euros.  (Robert Hockett is a professor of financial and monetary
law at Cornell Law School and a fellow at the Century
Foundation. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: The editors on  the Bush family’s lessons for
Republicans  and  Jamie Dimon’s day in Congress ; Clive Crook on
 Spain’s pain and Merkel’s folly ;  Edward Glaeser  on  what the 1912
election tells us about 2012 ;  Margaret Carlson   on the joys and
sorrows of being Jeb Bush ; Emi Nakamura on  how the U.S. could
become like Argentina .  To contact the writer of this article:
Robert Hockett at  rch37@cornell.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 