-- Senate Democrats Seek More Money for Dodd-Frank Agencies
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-06-12T23:14:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/senate-democrats-seek-budget-boost-for-dodd-frank-regulators.html
U.S.  Senate Democrats  are seeking to
increase the budget of the main financial-markets regulators in
spending plans that clash with House Republicans’ efforts to cut
funds and rein in the Dodd-Frank Act.  The  Commodity Futures Trading Commission ’s fiscal 2013
budget would be increased to $308 million, 50 percent above its
current level, as part of a broader spending plan approved
yesterday by the Senate Appropriations subcommittee on financial
services.  The panel also proposed a 19 percent increase in the
Securities and Exchange Commission’s budget, creating a rift
between the Democrat-led Senate and the Republican-run House,
which has proposed cutting the commodities regulator’s funding,
while giving a smaller bump to the SEC.  “The passage of the Wall Street reform bill expands
responsibilities and important roles for the SEC and CFTC, and
this bill provides the funding to continue this much needed
reform,” Senator  Dick Durbin , an Illinois Democrat and chairman
of the Senate subcommittee, said in remarks prepared for the
meeting yesterday.  The two chambers will need to pass spending measures and
reconcile their differences before a complete bill can be sent
to President  Barack Obama  for signature. A Republican-led House
panel last week voted to cut the CFTC’s budget by $25 million,
citing concerns about regulatory overreach and failures during
the collapse of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)   The Securities and Exchange Commission’s budget would
increase $245 million to $1.6 billion under the Senate measure.  Dodd-Frank ‘Overreach’  “The concern we have is the overreach of Dodd-Frank,”
Representative Jack Kingston, a Georgia Republican and chairman
of the House agriculture panel, said on June 6. The CFTC also
was “asleep on the job” before MF Global collapsed last year,
leaving a shortfall of $1.6 billion in customer funds.  Democrats have criticized Republicans for proposed cuts in
the CFTC’s budget and a plan to put the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau under congressional appropriations scrutiny
each year instead of its current system of transfers from the
 Federal Reserve . Democrats have argued that  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s May 10 announcement of at least $2 billion in derivatives
trading losses demonstrates the need for increased funding for
financial regulators.  The House measure is “a declaration of unilateral
surrender to the forces of irresponsibility that wrecked our
economy several years ago,” Representative  Barney Frank , a
Massachusetts Democrat and co-author of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act,
said last week.  ‘Sufficient Cops’  At the Senate measure’s funding level, “the CFTC will have
sufficient cops on the beat to promote swap market transparency,
to lower risk to the financial system, and to help protect the
American people from future bailouts of the financial
industry,”  Gary Gensler , CFTC chairman, said in a statement
yesterday.  Under Durbin’s bill, the  Internal Revenue Service  would get
$12.5 billion, or a 6 percent increase over the $11.8 billion it
received this year. That’s still shy of the $12.8 billion that
the administration recommended.  The House version of the bill would deny the IRS any
increase this year. Douglas Shulman, the commissioner of the
IRS, has said that significant budget cuts at the IRS would cost
the government money because the agency wouldn’t be able to
collect as much  tax revenue .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  