-- Senator Blocks Army Weapons Buyer on Russia Arms to Syria
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-06-12T19:31:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/senator-blocks-army-weapons-buyer-on-russia-arms-to-syria.html
A Texas senator is blocking
confirmation of the nominee for the Army’s top weapons buyer
until the Defense Department pledges to take action against a
Russian company supplying arms to Syria’s Assad regime.  Republican Senator  John Cornyn  has invoked a senatorial
prerogative to place a “hold” on Heidi Shyu, President  Barack
Obama ’s nominee to be the Army’s assistant secretary for
acquisition, technology and logistics, according to an aide to
the senator who spoke on condition of anonymity because
discussions about the dispute are being held in private.  Cornyn is leading a Senate effort pressuring the  Department
of Defense  to stop doing business with Rosoboronexport,  Russia ’s
state-run arms trader. The Army has a $375 million, no-bid
contract with the company to buy 21 Russian-made Mi-17
helicopters for Afghanistan’s  air force  that it says only
Rosoboronexport can provide.  “The DoD and the Army have refused to look for
alternatives, even as Rosoboronexport continues to arm the Assad
regime,” Cornyn said in an e-mailed statement. “The DoD and
the Army must end their practice of handing no-bid contracts to
this problematic Russian broker and instead conduct full and
open competition for all future Mi-17 procurement.”  The Senate by tradition permits any senator to place a hold
on a nomination for a period of time to gain leverage in a
dispute with the executive branch.  Electrical Engineer  Shyu, who is serving as the Army’s acting acquisition
chief, was a vice president of  Raytheon Co. (RTN) , a defense
contractor, before joining administration in November 2010,
according to a  White House announcement  when Obama nominated her
in February.  Shyu also has served as vice chairman of the Air Force’s
scientific advisory board. She received bachelor’s and master’s
degrees in mathematics from the University of  New Brunswick  and
the  University of Toronto , both in Canada, and a master’s degree
in electrical engineering from the  University of California ,  Los
Angeles . She began her career in 1978 as an engineer for Hughes
Aircraft Co.  The Army has taken delivery of nine helicopters, with six
more awaiting shipment and another six to be delivered by May
31. The U.S. has an option to buy an additional 12 Russian
helicopters for the Afghans, who have been flying them for
decades, Pentagon officials told Cornyn. The Senate Armed
Services Committee estimates the purchases could reach $1
billion.  Against Civilians  Pentagon Undersecretary for Policy  James Miller 
acknowledged in a March 30 letter to a lawmaker “that
Rosoboronexport continues to supply weapons and ammunition to
the Assad regime” and “there is evidence that some of these
arms are being used by Syrian forces against  Syria ’s civilian
population.”  A representative of the Moscow-based company said June 8
that it’s also bidding to sell ammunition to the U.S. armed
forces.  Five suppliers competing for a U.S. military contract have
invited Rosoboronexport to act as a subcontractor, it said in an
e-mailed statement. The ammunition would be used in
international coalition operations, the company said.  Separately, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  today said
the Assad regime is set to receive a new order of attack
helicopters from Russia.  “We are concerned by the latest information we have that
there are attack helicopters on the way from Russia to Syria,
which will escalate the conflict quite dramatically,” Clinton
said without elaboration at a conference today in  Washington .  ‘Deeply Troubled’  Cornyn, a member of the Senate Armed Service panel, wrote
in a letter yesterday to Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  that he
remained “deeply troubled that the DoD would knowingly do
business with a firm that has enabled mass atrocities in
Syria.”  “I support the president’s call for the end of the Assad
regime, as well as the goal of stopping the flow of arms to
Syria,” Cornyn wrote. “But the DoD’s ongoing business
relationship with Rosoboronexport undermines both.”  Panetta spokesman  George Little  in an e-mail today said the
secretary has received Cornyn’s letter and “will reply
promptly.”  Aircraft ‘Crucial’  “These aircraft remain crucial to the development of
 Afghanistan ’s Air Force capability and therefore important to
our mission of ensuring that Afghan forces can ultimately defend
their own sovereignty,” Little said.  The Rosoboronexport contract “is the only legal method to
purchase the military version of the Mi-17 and to provide an
appropriate measure of flight safety and airworthiness,” he
said. “This procurement complements the existing aircraft
inventory, completing the number of helicopters necessary to
establish the Afghan Air Force’s rotary-wing capability for
ensuring its future security.”  Pentagon spokesman Navy Captain John Kirby said at a press
conference today that the Syrians are “killing their own
people.”  “So I got the connection to Russia,” he said. “We’re
going to take the senator’s concerns very seriously, but let’s
not let the Assad regime off the hook here. It’s less important
what they’re buying than it is what they’re doing with what
they’ve got.”  House-Passed Ban  The Senate committee in the report on its fiscal 2013
defense authorization bill directed the Government Accounting
Office to review the contract.  The House, in the version of the measure it passed, adopted
an amendment by Representatives  Rosa DeLauro , a Connecticut
Democrat, and Kay Granger, a Texas Republican, that would
prohibit future contracts to Rosoboronexport.  Their amendment would prohibit the Defense Department from
awarding a contract to supply helicopters to the Afghan security
forces to any entity “controlled, directed or influenced” by a
state that has supplied weapons to Syria or a state sponsor of
terrorism.  The Senate defense measure is S. 3254. The House-passed
version is H.R. 4310.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  