-- Singapore Won’t Take Undeclared Swiss Deposits, SBA Says
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-06-12T11:42:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/singapore-won-t-take-undeclared-swiss-deposits-sba-says.html
The  Swiss Bankers Association  said
Singaporean money managers aren’t luring away undeclared assets
from the Alpine nation as governments crack down on people who
deposit money outside their home countries to avoid taxes.  “There’s virtually no growth from European countries” in
terms of untaxed private-banking assets transferred to
Singapore, Claude-Alain Margelisch, chief executive officer of
the Swiss banking group, told reporters today in Bern.  Switzerland is currently the largest offshore wealth
center, with about $2.1 trillion in assets, according to a
report last month by  Boston Consulting Group . The nation is in
talks with the U.S. to resolve a  Department of Justice  tax probe
of 11 financial firms, and has also signed agreements with
Germany, the U.K. and  Austria  that oblige its banks to withhold
tax from customers domiciled in those countries.  In response to the regulatory changes in cross-border
banking, Swiss money managers are building onshore networks in
 Europe  and opening new offices in emerging economies.  Singapore, the country with the highest density of
millionaires, and Hong Kong together manage about $1 trillion of
offshore funds, and may overtake Switzerland within 15 to 20
years as wealth in Asian nations excluding  Japan  surges at a
rate of over 11 percent per year, Boston-based BCG has said.  Greater Transparency  The two Asian banking centers have been “much less
affected by the calls for greater transparency and tax rigor in
the industry,” according to the BCG report.  “Singapore and  Hong Kong  want to avoid the same situation
as Switzerland,” Margelisch said in an interview on the
sidelines of the press conference in Bern. “We are confident
that they have no interest in attracting undeclared money to
these regions.”  Under the new tax accords with other European countries,
Switzerland will provide a list of 10 countries where foreign
customers are shifting fundse. Margelisch said today that he
doesn’t expect Singapore to be on those lists.  Singapore’s central bank has published guidelines asking
financial firms to avoid using the city-state as a haven for
illegitimate funds or as a conduit to disguise the flow of such
funds, Ravi Menon, managing director of the Monetary Authority
of  Singapore , said in a  speech  in October published on the
central bank’s website.  “Efforts by various governments to strengthen tax
enforcement have increased the risk of undeclared monies flowing
to Singapore,” Menon said in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  