-- Sinopec Imported Iran Crude at 2011 Levels in May, Official Says
-- B y   W i n n i e   Z h u
-- 2012-06-12T10:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/sinopec-imported-iran-crude-at-2011-levels-in-may-official-says.html
China  International United Petroleum
& Chemical Co., the trading unit of the nation’s biggest oil
refiner, has boosted monthly crude imports from Iran to levels
similar to 2011, according to an official at the parent company.  Shipments from Iran received by the unit known as Unipec
averaged 270,000 to 280,000 barrels a day in April and May, in
line with last year, said the official at  China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp. (600028) , who declined to be identified because of company
rules. Imports fell in the first quarter after Unipec, which
accounts for half of China’s crude purchases from the Persian
Gulf nation, failed to agree on annual payment terms with
National Iranian Oil Co.  China, the biggest buyer of Iranian crude, faces U.S.
sanctions because of the purchases. India,  South Korea , Turkey,
South Africa, Malaysia, Sri Lanka and Taiwan were given six-
month exemptions from the sanctions because they “significantly
reduced” the volume they buy, U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary
Clinton  said in a statement yesterday. Japan and 10 European
Union nations were granted waivers in March.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  signed a bill on Dec. 31 that
denies access to the U.S. financial system to any foreign bank
that processes payments for Iranian oil. The sanctions are part
of an attempt by Western nations to halt the Islamic Republic’s
nuclear program. A European Union embargo that includes a ban on
insuring tankers carrying Iranian crude takes full effect
starting July 1.  Cargo Request  China imports crude from  Iran  based on its economic needs
and its trading is “completely lawful and reasonable,”  Liu
Weimin , a Foreign Ministry spokesman, told a briefing in Beijing
today.  Iran has asked to sell extra cargoes to China Petroleum,
known as Sinopec, according to the official, who also said
Sinopec rejected the offer. Chinese oil companies will be able
to insure their ships carrying Iranian crude even after the
European Union embargo starts, the official said, without
elaborating.  Sinopec’s full-year purchases from the country will be
about 20 percent less than last year because of the first-
quarter drop, and China’s total deliveries from Iran will fall
15 to 20 percent, the official said.  China also imports Iranian crude via Zhuhai Zhenrong Co.
Total deliveries rebounded to 390,000 barrels a day in April
from 254,000 in March after the payment dispute was resolved,
customs data show. China bought an average of 557,413 barrels a
day from Iran in 2011, accounting for 11 percent of its total
purchases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Singapore at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  