-- Tsipras Parlays Politics of Defiance Into Greek Battle for Euro
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-06-12T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/tsipras-parlays-politics-of-defiance-into-greek-battle-for-euro.html
Taped to the door of Syriza’s newest
local office, a former bank branch on a busy central  Athens 
street where Greeks used to line up to get loans, is a photocopy
of a clenched fist and the words “to be continued.”  The political party, which promises to renege on bailout
agreements yet keep the euro, moved into the area after leader
Alexis Tsipras and his simple, familiar message of hope and
resistance steamrolled over the political establishment in an
inconclusive election on May 6. The 37-year-old aims to complete
the task on June 17 when Greeks vote again.  “We submit today to the Greek people our proposal for
government, the only credible realistic alternative,” Tsipras
said to applause from party supporters as he set out his plans
in the Greek capital on June 1. “You either implement the
bailout or you cancel it. We will cancel it.”  Defiance is the motif of Tsipras’s political career,
stemming from the 1973 student uprising the year before he was
born that helped bring down a hated military dictatorship. His
unwavering opposition to the spending cuts tied to the 240
billion euros ($302 billion) pledged to keep  Greece  in the euro
has set him on collision course with European leaders that may
now climax as he bids to lead the country.  The final polls two weeks before the ballot suggested that
Tsipras is holding and building on the momentum as the country
endures its worst recession since World War II, making the
likely outcome too close to call.  Greek Product  “Tsipras is a product of the post-dictatorship Greek
society,” said Stathis Kalyvas, a professor of political
science at  Yale University , who grew up in Greece during the
same period. “He came of age during a period of great political
and economic turmoil in Greece with lots of riots,
demonstrations, terrorism, and political instability.”  Tsipras is bidding to turn his firebrand politics of the
street into the biggest parliamentary force and displace Pasok
and New Democracy, the two parties that have traded power since
the military regime collapsed in disarray in 1974.  Syriza already leapfrogged Pasok, which prevailed in the
October 2009 election under leader George Papandreou before the
extent of Greece’s economic troubles unfolded. Tsipras’s pledges
to restore wages and pensions and stop state asset sales in the
face of European resistance evoke the defiance that swept Pasok
founder  Andreas Papandreou , George’s father, to power in 1981,
according to Kalyvas.  ‘New Order’  Nearly four in 10 voters backing Tsipras on May 6 were
Pasok supporters and 22 percent of Syriza voters work for the
state,  according to a study by Public Issue . Syriza also
garnered the lion’s share of those aged 18 to 24, more than half
of whom are unemployed.  “Suddenly, here’s a young man saying let the world go to
hell, we are the new order, with extreme self-confidence,” said
Thanos Veremis, a professor emeritus of modern history at Athens
University. “The others are the old-style mediocrity and he is
the new generation of mediocrity. Whether he’s a new style
politician remains to be seen.”  Tsipras grew up in the middle-class Athens suburb of
Ambelokipi, far from the elite schools and foreign universities
that fostered generations of political leaders like his rival
Antonis Samaras, 61, of the  New Democracy  party.  One of Us  On paper, he lives a modest life, comparable to many
Greeks. He made 22,872 euros from his parliamentary duties in
2009 and 25,332 euros from other activities, which aren’t
defined in the source of wealth statement all lawmakers are
obliged to submit to parliament.  Tsipras owns a 114 square-meter apartment in Athens, which
he shares with his partner, Betty Baziana, who is expecting
their second child, according to documents submitted to
parliament. Samaras had personal income of 217,000 euros and
about five pieces of property, state news agency ANA cited
comparable documents as saying.  “Because he is a young guy, there’s hope he might do
something, even if he forms a government for only one month,”
said Paris Vassis, 40, who is unemployed and will vote for
Syriza again on June 17. “He will make history. He’s already
made history, because what he’s done can’t be changed.”  Tsipras earned his political spurs during a high-school
revolt in 1990, joining the Communist Youth of Greece just after
the  Berlin Wall  fell.  He went on to study civil engineering at the  National
Technical University of Athens , better known as the Polytechnic,
the site of the 1973 uprising. The event is commemorated every
year with rallies and protests at the U.S. Embassy, seen as the
sponsor of the eight-year military dictatorship.  Political Student  At the head of a 15-member committee of students in 1990,
Tsipras became one of the leaders of the protests against the
education reforms of Prime Minister Constantine Mitsotakis,
giving interviews about the need for students, parents and
unions to be included in talks.  The stand-off led to universities and schools shutting down
for months and the resignation of the education minister.  “He’s very representative of many political students,
students who spend most of their time in politics,” said
Veremis, who met Tsipras when heading the National Council of
Education. “He can’t negotiate with his peers. The only thing
he can do is block the traffic on major roads, or close
universities or take over classes. He can do that very well.”  Mayoral Bid  His political career includes an unsuccessful bid for mayor
of Athens for 2006 before being elected president of
Synaspismos, the biggest of the parties that make up Syriza, in
February 2008. He took his first parliamentary seat after the
2009 election, the start of the  European debt crisis  when  George
Papandreou  revealed the deficit was four times the ceiling
permitted. Syriza won 13 seats in the 300-seat chamber.  Last month, voters gave him 52 seats and he was 130,000
voters short of placing first and receiving the extra 50 bonus
seats granted under Greek law. Those went to New Democracy and
Samaras, who garnered 108 seats and failed to form a coalition.
Pasok managed 41 seats, a decline of 119 from 2009.  Unlike Samaras, Tsipras has never wavered in his
condemnation of the policy choices that led to the European
Union and International Monetary Fund bailouts. He sought for a
referendum on IMF involvement as early as April 2010.  As opposition mounted on the streets and Greeks began
holding daily rallies outside the Athens legislature in June
last year, Tsipras demanded elections. He called the daily
gatherings “a new lower house” of parliament.  ‘Peaceful Revolution’  “If what we’re being asked to do is to sell even the
Acropolis, then the only people who can respond are the Greek
people,” he said on May 24 last year as then Prime Minister
Papandreou tried to rally support for austerity measures.  On the night of May 6, Tsipras watched the results from his
home with a close group of friends, according to Nikos Pappas, a
school friend who was there. They took photos of the television
screens with their mobile phones and tweeted them. Hours later,
Tsipras told Greeks the bailout was over.  “This is a message of peaceful revolution,” he said. “We
will do whatever we can to form a government to cancel the loan
accord of servitude and cancel the memorandum of bankruptcy.”  Tsipras has bid to become the poster boy for an end to
austerity-for-funds policies directed by  Germany .  While he declined to be interviewed for this story, he
appeared on  international television , traveled to Paris and
Berlin and met with Greek military officials to discuss defense
spending. On June 6, he called the ambassadors from Group of 20
nations to a briefing on Syriza’s policies.  Close Vote  In the final polls before this week’s vote, one, by Kapa
SA, showed New Democracy retaining its lead over Syriza, with
the support of 26.1 percent of 1,012 Greeks surveyed. Syriza had
23.6 percent. That poll showed that Syriza gained 3.5 percentage
points in a week, compared with less than a percentage point for
New Democracy.  Tsipras says a vote for Syriza is a vote for ending the
bailout, not ditching the euro, which has lost 4.8 percent
against the dollar since the May 6 vote while the Greek
benchmark stock index sank to the lowest since November 1992.  Polls consistently show Greeks overwhelmingly reject a
return to the drachma, with nearly nine in 10 wanting to keep
the euro, according to 1,010 respondents in a survey by MRB
Hellas on May 29 to May 30.  “The political campaign in these elections is primarily
about framing them: a referendum on the euro or a referendum on
the bailout agreement,” said Kalyvas at Yale. “Syriza is
winning the framing battle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  