-- Sky Unit May Face TV Sports-Clip Price Curbs, Court Aide Says
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-06-12T09:02:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/sky-unit-may-face-tv-sports-clip-price-curbs-court-aide-says.html
Sky Deutschland AG (SKYD)  and broadcasters
with rights to sports events such as UEFA Europa League soccer
games may face curbs on fees they charge other channels for
showing clips of the action on news programs, according to a
European Union court aide.  Advocate General Yves Bot, a legal adviser to the  European
Court  of Justice, said the Austrian broadcasting regulator was
justified in limiting the price Sky Deutschland’s Austrian pay-
TV channel Sky Oesterreich could charge the country’s public
broadcaster ORF for clips of UEFA soccer matches.  “The limitation of the compensation payable by a
television channel for the use of short extracts of high-
interest events to the public, such as football matches, is
justified,” the court said in a statement today.  Sky Oesterreich paid for the exclusive rights to broadcast
UEFA Europa League matches within  Austria  from 2009 to 2012. It
was told by KommAustria to provide short clips to ORF at cost
price. Sky Oesterreich challenged this decision, arguing that it
can’t be forced to give away clips to television news programs
because it violates the company’s right to property and its
right to operate a business.  Sky Oesterreich didn’t immediately respond to e-mails
seeking comment on today’s opinion.  While the court aide’s opinions aren’t binding, they are
followed by the EU’s highest court in most cases.  Bot said those rights to sports matches are mitigated by
rules that only require broadcasters to provide clips of no more
than 90 seconds “for events of high interest to the public”
for short reports on news programs.  Sky Oesterreich is a unit of Sky Deutschland, a German pay-
television operator part-owned by Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp.  The case is:  C-283/11  Sky Oesterreich.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 