-- SNB Counts Cost of Franc Cap as Stakes Rise for Jordan
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-06-13T12:07:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/snb-counts-cost-of-franc-cap-as-crisis-raises-stakes-for-jordan.html
The Swiss central bank is counting
the cost of its franc policy as President Thomas  Jordan ’s
struggle to keep investors at bay pushes reserves to a record
and forces officials to contemplate further measures.  With  Europe ’s debt crisis intensifying pressure on the
 Swiss National Bank ’s 1.20 per euro ceiling after a breach in
April, officials will tomorrow reaffirm their commitment to
defend the limit. The central bank’s foreign-currency reserves
surged in May, indicating policy makers stepped up euro
purchases to stave off attacks spurred by the turmoil.  “The SNB is under intense pressure to appear rock-solid in
its determination to defend the limit as any hint of indecision
would be seen as an invitation to markets to bet on a further
appreciation,” said Bjoern Eberhardt, senior economist at
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  in Zurich. “The good news is that they
can go on with their interventions for quite a while.”  The prospect of further tests on the franc ceiling has
prompted Jordan and government officials to hint at the
possibility of other tools such as  capital controls . Escalation
of that threat is unlikely while the euro-area crisis remains at
bay and  Switzerland ’s economy continues to stave off recession,
said economists at  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Bank Sarasin.  The franc traded at 1.20095 versus the euro at 2:04 p.m. in
Zurich. Against the dollar, it was at 95.71 centimes.  SNB Forecasts  Jordan, who took the helm of the central bank in April,
will maintain the ceiling of 1.20 francs per euro, according to
all 11 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. He will also keep
borrowing costs at zero, a separate survey shows.  The SNB will announce its decision at 9:30 a.m. in Bern and
also publish its economic projections. Jordan and Vice President
Jean-Pierre Danthine will hold a briefing at 10 a.m.  The SNB’s foreign currency holdings rose to a record 303.8
billion francs ($316 billion) in May from 237.6 billion francs
in April, with spokesman Walter Meier saying a “large part” of
the increase was due to currency purchases.  The central bank, which doesn’t disclose details of its
market operations, introduced the ceiling in September after the
franc’s surge to near parity with the euro raised deflation
threats and eroded export competitiveness. It has since averaged
1.2138 versus the euro, breaching the ceiling just once.  Hildebrand Remarks  Pressure on the SNB increased after inconclusive elections
in  Greece  last month raised the specter of a euro breakup while
Spain’s banking woes deepened.  Syngenta AG (SYNN) , the world’s largest
crop-chemical company based in  Basel , Switzerland, said on June
8 it decided to drop some banks and customers in southern Europe
in response to the region’s deepening crisis.  Philipp Hildebrand, 48, who stepped down as SNB president
in January, told CNBC in an interview broadcast today that the
euro region’s survival “has to be the basic assumption” and
that “leaders will do what’s necessary to keep the project on
the road.”  Jordan told SonntagsZeitung last month that a government-
led panel is weighing measures including capital controls should
the euro region collapse. The preparations would allow officials
to react “fast and flexibly in an emergency situation,” the
government said in a statement on June 11 without elaborating.  ‘Psychological Threat’  Still, Caesar Lack, an economist at UBS’ Wealth Management
Research in Zurich, said it’s unlikely the SNB will introduce
controls on capital inflows, calling it a “psychological
threat.”  “Capital controls would only be applied in an emergency,”
said Alessandro Bee, an economist at Bank Sarasin in Zurich.
“Examples would be a bank run in Spain or Italy or a disorderly
exit of Greece. The likelihood of that happening is about 5
percent.”  The SNB’s currency reserves stand at about 55 percent of
gross domestic product, according to  Royal Bank of Canada 
strategist Elsa Lignos in  London . While  Thailand ,  Malaysia  and
China have similar levels, holdings amount to up to 130 percent
of GDP in  Taiwan ,  Singapore  and  Hong Kong , Lignos wrote.  Latest available data show the SNB has been reducing its
euro exposure over the past two years. Euro holdings accounted
for 51 percent of reserves at the end of the first quarter, down
from 70 percent in the second quarter of 2010. Reserves of
dollars rose to 28 percent from 22 percent in that period.  SNB Limit  Christoph Blocher, vice president of the  Swiss People’s
Party , who had called the SNB’s currency purchases in 2009 and
2010 “senseless speculation,” on June 3 told Der Sonntag
newspaper that policy makers should keep in mind that the
ceiling won’t be enforceable in the long run. “At one point, it
must be up to the foreign-currency market again to determine the
 exchange rate ,” Blocher said.  “There is no limit to the balance sheet of a central
bank,”  Sylvain Broyer , chief euro-region economist at Natixis
in  Frankfurt . Still, “they’ll assume a wait-and-see stance.”  While the currency purchases help maintain the ceiling,
they’re also increasing the amount of francs available to banks,
raising the risk of inflation in the medium and long term. Sight
deposits of domestic banks with the SNB jumped to an average
184.5 billion francs last week from 179 billion francs the
previous week.  In its March projections, the SNB forecast the economy to
expand about 1 percent this year and consumer prices to drop 0.6
percent before climbing 0.3 percent in 2013. Inflation may
average 0.6 percent in 2014, it said.  Lack at UBS said the SNB will maintain its inflation
language for now.  “They will reiterate that inflation isn’t a risk at the
moment to make their point that they can intervene without
limits if they want to,” Lack said. “It would be bad
communication if they showed in any way that it could be
difficult to defend the cap. They will bend over backward to
avoid that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  