-- Soccer Scuffle Before Poland-Russia Match Leaves 140 Injured
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   D a v i d   M c Q u a i d
-- 2012-06-13T17:55:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/soccer-fans-scuffle-ahead-of-poland-match-against-russia.html
More than 140 people were injured in
Warsaw last night in fighting between Polish and Russian soccer
fans before a European Championship match between the countries.  Police detained 184 rioters, including 156 Poles and 25
Russians, in sporadic clashes near the city center. Riot squads
used water cannon against groups who attacked several thousand
Russian fans marching toward the stadium, waving red, blue and
white flags. Eight injured remained in the hospital this
morning, none in serious condition, Provincial Governor Jacek
Kozlowski said.  “We got through last night without the drama some were
expecting,” Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk said told
reporters today in Warsaw. “This wasn’t  Poland  and Russia
battling in the streets, it was a few hundred fools trying to
attract attention.”  Relations between Poland and Russia have been strained by
centuries of wars between the Slavic neighbors. Polish Premier
Donald Tusk acknowledged a “special tension” before the group-
phase game and urged fans to show “maximum cordiality” and not
be provoked during the match.  UEFA, European soccer’s governing body, said it started
disciplinary proceedings against both teams. The Polish soccer
team may face penalties after fans used fireworks in the
stadium. The Russia side, which has already fined for supporters
behavior in its opening game, will have to defend itself over
charges of the use of fireworks, illicit banners and a person
running onto the field.  Extra Police  More than 5,600 police, including units drawn from outside
the capital, broke up groups of rioters trying to block Russian
fans from crossing a bridge to the National Stadium shortly
after 6 p.m. Ten policemen were injured, Interior Minister Jacek Cichocki told reporters today in Warsaw.  Tusk and Russian President  Vladimir Putin  spoke about the
incidents by phone this afternoon and agreed that “bad stadium
emotions” shouldn’t impact Polish-Russian relations and
“hooligans” should be chased by police no matter their
nationality, according to the Polish government’s statement
today.  “There was some violence, some wild Polish and Russian
fans and some one-on-one fights, but most people just wanted to
walk through. It wasn’t so bad,” said Evgeny Berezin, 30, from
Ekaterinburg, Russia.  Separating Supporters  A cordon of riot police stood near the newly built national
stadium after driving off a group of young Poles dressed in
black and gray, some wearing masks. The rioters lined a viaduct
leading from Warsaw’s main bridge over the Vistula river before
attacking Russian and Polish fans streaming toward the stadium.
The assailants fled to a nearby square after police intervened.  Police diverted the Russian marchers to a side staircase
leading off the bridge while fans from both countries resumed
mingling in front of the stadium. Among them was Sylwester
Wardega, a 23-year-old Polish student dressed up as Superman in
red tights and a blue singlet.  “I’m trying to help out the police by getting people to
lighten up,” he said in an interview.  Russia’s national anthem was greeted with whistles from a
mostly Polish crowd of 55,920 before the game, which ended in a
1-1 draw. Alan Dzagoev put Russia ahead after 37 minutes with
his tournament-leading third goal and Jakub Blaszczykowski tied
it for Poland after 57 minutes.  Russia Holiday  Russian fans didn’t leave the stadium for as long as 40
minutes after the game to allow Poland supports to disperse. The
Polish organizers of Euro 2012, pl.2012, said 9,852 Russian fans
attended yesterday’s game, excluding VIPs.  The Group A match coincided with the Russia Day holiday,
which commemorates Parliament’s declaration of sovereignty in
1990 during the collapse of the  Soviet Union .  Soviet forces were stationed in Poland until the collapse
of communism in 1989. Ten years later, Russia opposed Poland’s
entry into the NATO military alliance and the stationing of U.S.
rockets on Polish soil.  In 2010, Poland’s President  Lech Kaczynski  died in a plane
crash in Smolensk, Russia, on the way to a ceremony in Katyn
forest honoring 22,000 Polish officers and officials killed in
1940 by Soviet dictator  Josef Stalin ’s secret police.
Investigations have found Polish pilots were mostly to blame for
the crash, which killed all 96 people on board.  Disciplinary Action  Tournament organizer UEFA gave Russia’s soccer team a
suspended six-point penalty for the qualifying tournament for
the next European Championship and fined the country’s governing
body 120,000 euros ($150,000) after the behavior of its fans
during a 4-1 win over the  Czech Republic  in Wroclaw on June 8.  The points penalty will be suspended for “a probationary
period running from now until the end of the play-offs of the
next” regional championship, UEFA, European soccer’s ruling
body, said today in an e-mail. The charges from the Poland game
won’t violate the probation period, UEFA said.  The Russian soccer federation issued an appeal to its fans
in Poland on its website, saying the behavior by some was
“unworthy of true football fans.’  Polish Sports Minister Joanna Mucha told reporters today
she’s “ashamed” of local hooligans who tried to disrupt the
soccer championships, even if they didn’t succeed.  Police are still identifying participants in the street
fracas from monitoring cameras and may make more arrests,
Interior Minister Cichocki said. UEFA stewards detained one
Russian fan for throwing a flare onto the pitch during the game,
and he will be charged and deported to  Russia , Cichocki said.  Poland and Ukraine have so far hosted 10 games in the
tournament, which started on June 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  