-- South Africa $35 Billion Rail Plan to Unlock Minerals
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-06-12T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/south-africa-35-billion-rail-plan-to-unlock-minerals.html
South Africa is pumping 300 billion
rand ($35.6 billion) into expanding and improving its railways,
ports and fuel pipelines, a catalyst to help unlock the world’s
greatest mineral wealth.  Transnet SOC Ltd., the state transport company, is
extending its rail network for the first time in four decades
and replacing locomotives bought in the 1960s and 1970s.
Championed by President  Jacob Zuma , the plan will let Transnet
double its freight capacity within seven years, boost the amount
of coal it can carry by 44 percent and increase iron ore
carriage by 57 percent.  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO) , the world’s fourth-largest supplier of
seaborne iron ore, and  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the biggest producer of
power-station coal, are just some of the mining companies set to
benefit as production expands. The overhaul may enable South
Africa to tap more of the  mineral resources  that  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
said in 2010 were worth $2.5 trillion, the most of any nation.  “Capacity has been a major constraint,” Asief Mohamed,
who oversees 1 billion rand in assets as chief investment
officer of Aeon Investment Management in Cape Town, said in a
June 7 interview. “With the committed expansion by Transnet,
mining companies would be able to increase volumes, which would
be good for earnings.”  Mohamed holds shares of Pretoria-based Kumba, which has
gained 20 percent in the past 12 months, and  Assore Ltd. (ASR) , a
Johannesburg-based iron ore and manganese producer that’s surged
31 percent in the same period. Zug, Switzerland-based Xstrata
has dropped 0.8 percent in  London  so far this year after
declining 35 percent in 2011.  Bond Sales  Transnet will fund about a third of the program by selling
bonds, including in foreign currency, with the rest coming from
operating revenue. The utility may consider selling debt to
Japanese investors or Islamic bonds to diversify its sources of
funding, Chief Executive Officer Brian Molefe said on May 29.  Molefe took office in February 2011, becoming the utility’s
first permanent appointee in the position for almost two years.
Before that he was head of the Public Investment Corp.,  South
Africa ’s largest money manager.  South Africa has battled in the past to implement large
investment projects. This time, Zuma has set up a panel, which
he chairs, to coordinate and monitor infrastructure spending as
the government pushes to boost economic growth and create jobs
for the one in four people in the country that’s unemployed.  Doubling Capacity  “We are currently ramping up our capacity,” Francois Louw, executive head of projects at Kumba, said in a June 1
phone interview from Pretoria. “We are absolutely reliant on
Transnet. If Transnet doesn’t expand then we are stuck. We are
really excited about their plans.” Kumba has committed to using
15 million metric tons of the new rail capacity.  About 17 percent of South Africa’s freight is transported
on Transnet’s rail network, with the rest reliant on roads that
needs constant renovating because of damage caused by trucks.
The total cost of transporting goods via road is about 75
percent more than on rail, according to the utility.  Transnet plans to double freight capacity to 170 million
metric tons over the seven-year period. Rail projects will
account for 201 billion rand of the new investment and include
the purchase of 1,317 new locomotives and the construction of
25,000 new rail wagons.  “We have to bring in better and modern equipment that will
allow us to provide a professional service,” Molefe told
lawmakers in  Cape Town . Over the past five years “67 percent of
capital expenditure was going toward maintenance. With the 300
billion rand we are able to cover all the maintenance backlogs,
continue current maintenance and have 58 percent of the money
going towards new expansion.”  Building New Links  South Africa doesn’t have the best track record on building
infrastructure, with projects frequently delayed or costs
running above projections. The government spent just 68 percent
of its 260 billion-rand infrastructure budget in the year
through March 2011, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said in his
budget speech on Feb. 22.  Logistics isn’t the only impediment to faster expansion of
mining in South Africa, where output declined in the 10 months
through April due to strikes and electricity constraints. Eskom
Holdings SOC Ltd., the state-owned power utility, is building
coal-fired  power plants  as part of a 500 billion-rand expansion
program to ease electricity shortages.  Aside from expanding existing  iron ore  and coal lines,
Transnet will build new links to access coal and chrome in
northern Limpopo province and construct a dedicated line to
transport 16 million tons of manganese to the Coega port on the
country’s south coast. South Africa has about 80 percent of the
world’s best manganese reserves.  ‘Not the Best Way’  “We would love to get more material on rail,” Deon
Dreyer, managing director of Zug, Switzerland-based Xstrata’s
South African chrome unit, said in a June 1 phone interview from
Johannesburg. “We are using a lot of road transport, which is
not the best way to do things, but we are coping. We will be
expanding further next year. When we want to do more tons, we
might run into transport bottlenecks.”  About 47 billion rand will be spent on expanding port
terminals and modernizing them so that harbors can process 76
percent more cargo. Durban and Cape Town ports are being
deepened to handle larger vessels and piers, while the new port
at Coega is being built in three phases and will include four
container berths. Transnet also plans to dig a new deepwater
port in Durban, which has yet to be budgeted for.  “Our economic infrastructure is lacking,” Richard
Downing, an independent economist in  Pretoria  whose clients
include the South African Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said
in a phone interview on June 11. “It will take a few years, but
this investment is going to make it cheaper and more efficient
to do business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  