-- South Africa’s Gordhan Says Europe Crisis Threatens Revenue
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-06-12T11:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/south-africa-s-gordhan-says-europe-crisis-threatens-revenue-1-.html
South African Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  said Europe’s debt crisis threatens to curtail
 tax revenue  in Africa’s biggest economy and may force a review
of spending plans.  “There could be further negative impacts on revenue
collection in the coming year if Europe does not sort out its
problems,” Gordhan told lawmakers in Cape Town today. “The
European crisis and the fact there are lower growth patterns
around the world today does mean that we must have lower
expectations about what the budget could look like.”  Slower growth in Europe, where a debt crisis that began
more than two years ago may lead to Greece leaving the monetary
union, is curbing demand from a region that buys about a fifth
of South African exports. In his budget speech on Feb. 22,
Gordhan cut his growth forecast this year to 2.7 percent from an
earlier estimate of 3.4 percent.  There is no evidence that Europe will solve its problems in
the near future, and  South Africa  has to restructure its own
economy to address structural constraints, Gordhan said.  “We wanted to change the composition of spending,” he
said. “We have started that process, but there is a long way to
go. Investment in infrastructure and in other capital projects
still doesn’t get as much money as it requires, and even when we
do have that money, regrettably we don’t spend it as effectively
as we should.”  Lawmakers are due to vote on whether to approve the budget
later today. While the  Democratic Alliance , the main opposition
party, has said it will oppose funding allocations, it cannot
block them because the ruling  African National Congress  controls
almost two-thirds of the seats in Parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 