-- South Dakota’s ‘Tim’ Meets Wall Street’s Dimon on Capitol Hill
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-06-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/south-dakota-s-tim-meets-wall-street-s-dimon-on-capitol-hill.html
U.S. Senate Banking Committee
Chairman  Tim Johnson , who has done most of his work away from
the spotlight the past five years, won’t escape the glare of the
TV lights when he takes the gavel to question  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  about $2 billion in
trading losses.  Johnson will convene and conduct the high-profile Capitol
Hill  hearing  on Wednesday in which Dimon faces grilling over why
his bank conducted high-risk trading activities out of its chief
investment office. Johnson aides and allies say, however, that
the chairman prefers to stay above the fray.  “He doesn’t try to demagogue or show horse or come out
with an arm-flailing statement to attract the attention of the
cameras,” former Senator  Christopher Dodd , Johnson’s
predecessor as the panel’s chairman and a colleague for 13
years, said in an interview.  It also may be a wise strategy for the South Dakota
Democrat who faces some of his own challenges, some physical,
some political.  Johnson, 65, is still working to recover from the bursting
of a blood vessel in his brain in 2006, which has slowed and
slurred his speech. The last time he faced such a barrage of
media attention, he was standing on the Senate floor in front of
more than 80 of his colleagues, many in tears, as he gave his
 first speech  in the chamber less than a year after suffering the
intracerebral bleed.  ‘Not 100 Percent’’  “It must already be clear to you that my speech is not 100
percent,” Johnson said then. “The doctors tell me that it will
get there, but my thoughts are clear and my mind is sharp and
I’m here to be a voice for South Dakota in the Senate.”  Since then, Johnson has learned to navigate the halls and
tunnels of Capitol Hill on a motorized scooter. Since taking
over as banking committee chairman last year, he has learned to
navigate the Hill’s political landscape, amassing what Dodd, now
chairman and CEO of the  Motion Picture Association  of America,
described as an impressive record in a Congress often paralyzed
by bipartisan strife.  Johnson has shepherded the Senate confirmation of 30 of the
36 nominees sent to him by President  Barack Obama , including two
Federal Reserve governors, the comptroller of the currency and
two Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. directors. He’s pushed
through his committee unanimous reauthorizations of the National
Flood Insurance Program, the Export-Import bank, federal surface
transportation program and tighter economic sanctions on  Iran .  Dodd-Frank  And he has played defense on the Dodd-Frank Act, the
overhaul of financial regulations which passed largely along
party lines in 2010. Johnson said he is reluctant to make
changes out of concern that opponents would use it as an
opportunity to repeal large portions of the law.  “There have been some isolated, specific things that have
come along where we are willing to open the bill, but we must be
very careful,” Johnson said in an interview in his  Capitol Hill 
office.  Johnson has also had to battle perceptions that he himself
is too cozy with financial interests. The heavy presence of
credit-card companies in his state has opened him to criticism
that he is anti-consumer -- one reason he has defended  Richard Cordray , the new director of the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau which was created by the Dodd-Frank law.  “The assumption was that I’d be in the pocket of the
credit card industry, yet I’ve supported Cordray and the
consumer bureau all down the line,” Johnson said.  JPMorgan Connection  More to the point this week, there has been a revolving
door between his Capitol Hill office and JPMorgan. His former
staff director, Naomi Gendler Camper, is a lobbyist in the
bank’s Washington office. Dwight Fettig, his current committee
staff director, returned to the Senator’s team after seven years
away that included a stint as an outside lobbyist for
JPMorgan, according to federal disclosures.  The staff relationship hasn’t transferred to political
contributions since Johnson became chairman, however. Johnson,
who is up for re-election in 2014, has not received any money
from the bank’s political action committee since he took over as
chairman, and only $1,000 since he won his third Senate term in
2008.  The total marks a shift from previous years, when the
bank’s political action committee and employees combined to be
one of Johnson’s top donors. The bank’s PAC contributed $10,000
to the lawmaker during his last six-year campaign cycle and its
employees contributed more than $48,000, according to the Center
for Responsive Politics.  Revolving Door  Johnson aides say another factor is at work in the
revolving door: loyalty. In a city known for its transience, a
majority of the senator’s staff have worked for him for more
than five years. When Johnson became chairman, there was little
question that Fettig, who spent more than a decade in various
roles for Johnson including more eight years as his legislative
director, would come back to Capitol Hill. Johnson’s chief of
staff, Drey Samuelson, has been with the lawmaker since his
first campaign for the Congress in 1986.  Everyone in the office calls the lawmaker by his first
name, as do his constituents in  South Dakota . Johnson’s wife
Barbara dispatches baby advice to employees with children.
Staffers joke about how many crockpots they own, required
equipment for the many office potlucks the couple hosts in their
home.  At a reception hosted by community bankers in  Sioux Falls 
earlier this year, Geri Beck, the  executive director  at the
Independent Community Bankers of South Dakota, said she expected
a polite, social event for Johnson. Shortly after arriving
however, Johnson had the bankers, many of whom had concerns
about the 2010 overhaul law, gathered around him in a semi-
circle, asking questions about their problems and concerns.  “There are always people who say he can do more, but we
feel like he hears us,” Beck said. “We’re proud to have
someone from South Dakota” in such a high-ranking position.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  