-- Soybeans Seen Steady by Oil World Before South American Harvest
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-06-12T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/soybeans-seen-steady-by-oil-world-before-south-american-harvest.html
Soybean prices may “decline only
slightly” in the coming season as supplies remain tight until
the South American harvest starts in February, Oil World said.  Prices will remain high in the period’s first half before
being pressured by record South American output, the Hamburg-
based oilseed researcher said today in an e-mailed report. The
price of U.S. soybeans, including costs of insurance and freight
to Rotterdam, may be $500 a metric ton in the crop year starting
July 1, down 5.8 percent from a year earlier.  “The underlying fundamentals are still to be shaped by the
partly full growing cycle in the Northern Hemisphere as well as
by the planting and growing developments in the Southern
Hemisphere,” Oil World said. “Any price forecasts can
currently be based only on the assumption of about normal
weather conditions.”  Soybeans have climbed 11 percent this year in Chicago
trading as dry weather eroded  crops  in  South America , spurring
leading global importer  China  to increase purchases of U.S.
supplies.  Brazil  is the world’s second-biggest exporter of the
oilseed after the U.S. and  Argentina  ranks third.  China may slow soybean purchases in anticipation of ample
production in South America in early 2013, which “will allow a
significant recovery of global stocks and exert strong price
pressure in the course of 2013,” Oil World said.  Ebbing world biodiesel production may also slow demand for
oils made from soybeans, rapeseed and other products, the
researcher said. Global consumption of 17 oils and fats it
tracks may rise 2.9 percent to 188.1 million tons in the
marketing year starting Oct. 1, which would mark the smallest
increase in 15 years, Oil World said.  “The forecast slowdown of the growth in global biodiesel
production in 2012-13 is expected to pressure prices of rapeseed
oil and other major oils and fats,” Oil World said. Several
countries have already met targets for biodiesel use, limiting
production growth, the researcher said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  