-- Spanish Bond Drop Sends Yields to Record on Rajoy Budget Concern
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-06-12T14:42:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/spain-bonds-extend-drop-on-doubts-rajoy-can-reach-deficit-target.html
Spain’s bond yields rose to a record
as Fitch Ratings’s prediction that Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
will miss budget-deficit targets stoked concern a 100 billion-
euro ($124 billion) lifeline for banks won’t be enough to
stabilize the economy.  The yield on  10-year government debt  rose for a third day,
gaining 33 basis points to 6.83 percent. The  spread over German
bunds  widened 23 basis points to 542 basis points as of 4:06
p.m. in Madrid.  Rajoy has built his strategy for avoiding a full-blown
sovereign bailout around meeting deficit goals that economists
at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  said can’t
be achieved. Investors’ concerns are straining  Europe ’s defenses
before an election in  Greece  that may determine whether the
country stays in the euro area.  “An economy in recession like  Spain  can’t cut its deficit
by 6 percentage points, it’s impossible,” said Jose Carlos
Diez, chief economist at Madrid-based brokerage Intermoney SA.
“Does Brussels want us to change the law of gravity as well?”  Greeks will vote June 17 on whether to back Alexis Tsipras,
who wants to scrap the austerity plan dictated by the EU and the
 International Monetary Fund , as a condition of its bailout. New
Democracy leader Antonis Samaras, who supports the bailout
conditions, said backing Tsipras will see Greece effectively
thrown out of the euro.  There is a 50.7 percent chance that a euro member leaves
the single currency area by the end of next year, according to
bets on Intrade.com. That compares with 55 percent a week ago.  Plan Needed  European leaders will see the risks of a euro breakup
increase unless they can develop a plan for resolving the
crisis, Fitch Managing Director  Ed Parker  said at an event in
Oslo today.  “Euro-zone politicians need to take further steps forward
to reduce the risks there and we think that further steps will
be required in the area of public finances,” Parker said. “We
believe Spain will miss its budget deficit targets again this
year and next by a substantial margin.”  The European Commission forecasts that Spain will post
deficits of 6.4 percent of gross domestic product this year and
6.3 percent in 2013 even after unveiling 45 billion euros of
spending cuts and tax increases. Rajoy’s aim is a deficit of 5.3
percent of GDP.  Rajoy’s cuts are so deep, equivalent to about 4 percent of
last year’s GDP, they are undermining growth and reducing  tax
revenue , according to  James Nixon , chief European economist at
 Societe Generale  in  London .  ‘Self-Defeating’ Cuts  “These massive fiscal tightenings are actually self-
defeating,” Nixon said in a telephone interview. “That
particularly German focus on deficit cutting is arguably very
misplaced in Spain.”  Rajoy stuck to his deficit target again when he discussed
the bank bailout on June 10, saying that a balanced budget is
the first plank of his plan to restart the Spanish economy,
which slipped into its second recession in three years in the
fourth quarter of 2011.  “A clean-up of the public finances was necessary to grow
and to create jobs,” he said.  Media Criticism  Investor skepticism has been mirrored by criticism in the
Spanish media, where the premier has been attacked for refusing
to acknowledge he took a bailout and for allowing Economy
Minister Luis de Guindos to announce the measures. The prime
minister left Spain to watch the national soccer team play in
 Poland  on June 10 after commenting on the bailout.  Even presenters on Spain’s leading pop music radio station,
Los 40 Principales, who typically discuss new releases from Lady
Gaga and celebrity gossip, lampooned the premier last night for
saying he had time to attend the soccer game because he’d solved
the problems in the banking industry.  While economists say Spain can’t meet its targets,
Bundesbank board member Andreas Dombret said yesterday central
bankers are unlikely to take any further measures to boost
economic growth after offering about 1 trillion euros of three-
year loans since December.  “We have done our part,” Dombret said in an interview in
London. “Now it’s up to the political leaders to deliver on the
fiscal and structural policy side.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in  Madrid   at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  