-- Spain’s Record Yields Show Italy Bailout Risk
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-06-13T07:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/spain-s-record-yields-show-italy-bailout-risk-as-crisis-spreads.html
Spain’s benchmark borrowing costs
rose for a fourth day after touching a record yesterday, raising
the specter of sovereign bailouts for the government in  Madrid 
and then Italy that would stretch European Union finances to
their limit.  The yield on Spanish  10-year government debt  rose 2 basis
points to 6.73 percent at 9:55 a.m. in Madrid. Yesterday it
touched 6.83 percent, the highest since 1997, after  Fitch
Ratings  predicted that Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  will miss
budget-deficit targets he’s made the foundation of his economic
policy. Italian 10-year yields posted their highest close in six
months yesterday and rose for a sixth session today.  The bond rout wiped out the effects of 1.1 trillion euros
($1.4 trillion) in official funding for euro-region banks that
has held yields in check since December. Spain’s 10-year yield
is close to the 7 percent level that forced Greece, Ireland and
Portugal to seek bailouts.  Italy , the second-biggest sovereign
borrower in the euro area, may need to seek a rescue within
months, said  James Nixon , chief European economist at  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  in  London .  “The crisis will inevitably roll on to the next domino,
and that’s Italy,” Nixon said in a telephone interview. “The
southern European economies are effectively in free-fall and
market appetite for southern European debt is rapidly drying up.
I can’t see anything to turn that dynamic around.”  Rajoy, speaking in the Spanish Parliament today, said “we
should celebrate the fact that our European partners have helped
us.”  Greek Vote  European policy makers face a series of hurdles in the
coming days as bond investors spurn the 100 billion-euro rescue
package for Spanish banks that the  European Central Bank  said
yesterday would bolster financial stability. Italy is due to
sell as much as 9.5 billion euros of bills and bonds at auctions
today and tomorrow while auditors are due to report on the
extent of Spanish banking losses from next week.  Greeks will vote June 17 on whether to back Alexis Tsipras,
who wants to scrap the austerity plan dictated by the EU and the
 International Monetary Fund , as a condition of its bailout. New
Democracy leader Antonis Samaras, who supports the bailout
conditions, said backing Tsipras will see Greece effectively
thrown out of the euro.  Mounting tensions were illustrated in the past two days
when Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter made a prediction
she then retracted that Italy would need “help payments.”  Merkel’s Message  “As I consider inappropriate the comments by the minister
on the situation of another member state, I abstain from
commenting on such remarks,” Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
told journalists yesterday in Rome.  In Berlin, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and her Finnish
counterpart,  Jyrki Katainen , who both manage AAA rated
economies, yesterday told southern European nations to keep
implementing the austerity plans that have driven them into
recession. They said Europe wasn’t ready for debt sharing
through euro bonds.  Introducing euro bonds “is putting the cart before the
horse and absolutely leads us down the wrong road,” Merkel
said.  European leaders will see the risks of a euro breakup
increase unless they can develop a plan for resolving the
crisis, Fitch Managing Director  Ed Parker  said at an event in
Oslo yesterday.  Reducing Risks  “Euro-zone politicians need to take further steps forward
to reduce the risks there and we think that further steps will
be required in the area of public finances,” Parker said. “We
believe  Spain  will miss its budget deficit targets again this
year and next by a substantial margin.”  The European Commission forecasts that Spain will post
deficits of 6.4 percent of gross domestic product this year and
6.3 percent in 2013 even after unveiling 45 billion euros of
spending cuts and tax increases. Rajoy’s aim is a deficit of 5.3
percent of GDP this year.  Investors are pricing in an increasing risk of a sovereign
bailout for Spain as German officials signal the ECB is unlikely
to take further measures to support lending after offering about
1 trillion euros of three-year loans since December.  “We have done our part,” Bundesbank board member Andreas Dombret said in a June 11 interview in London. “Now it’s up to
the political leaders to deliver on the fiscal and structural
policy side.”  Deficit Targets  Rajoy stuck to his deficit target when he discussed the
bank bailout on June 10, saying that a balanced budget is the
first plank of his plan to restart the Spanish economy, which
slipped into its second recession in three years in the fourth
quarter of 2011. Rajoy’s cuts are so deep, equivalent to about 4
percent of last year’s GDP, they are undermining growth and
reducing  tax revenue , according to economists at  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)   “The deficit target is close to impossible at this
point,” Pavan Wadhwa, global head of interest-rate strategy at
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“It’s going to be very hard for Spain to hold on.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  