-- Spanish Yields Rise as Fitch Says Targets May Be Missed
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-06-12T16:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/spanish-bonds-fall-amid-downgrade-concern-as-italy-s-debt-drops.html
Spanish borrowing costs jumped to
the most in the history of the euro as European  government bonds 
slumped on concern policy makers aren’t doing enough to prevent
the currency bloc’s financial woes from deepening.  French securities slid with benchmark German bunds as  Fitch
Ratings  said it may cut credit grades across  Europe  because
policy makers are failing to demonstrate they can bring the debt
crisis under control. The yield on Italian  10-year securities 
jumped to the most since January as the country prepared to sell
bonds on June 14. Germany will offer 10-year bunds, Europe’s
benchmark securities, tomorrow, after  Austria  and the
Netherlands auctioned debt today.  “People are getting frustrated, there is disaffection with
Europe and the situation is not getting any clearer for
investors,” said Gianluca Ziglio, an interest-rate strategist
at UBS AG in London. “Many are deciding that they would rather
stay out of the market for a while, even in the core
countries.”  Spain ’s  10-year yield  rose 20 basis points, or 0.2
percentage point, to 6.71 percent at 5 p.m. London time, after
reaching 6.83 percent, the highest since the euro was introduced
in 1999. The 5.85 percent bond maturing in January 2022 fell
1.325, or 13.25 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,246) face amount, to
93.030.  Bank Downgrades  Ratings in the currency bloc, including those of AAA
nations, are under “strong downward pressure,” Fitch Managing
Director  Ed Parker  said in Oslo today. If there’s “no light at
the end of the tunnel soon,” the risk of a breakup of the 17-
member euro area will rise, he said. “Last minute” solutions
are raising the cost of managing the crisis, he said.  Spanish bonds extended their drop after Fitch downgraded 18
of the nation’s banks today.  German bunds declined, with the 10-year yield rising 12
basis points to 1.42 percent.  Germany  will auction as much as 5
billion euros of the bonds as well as inflation-linked debt
maturing in April 2018 tomorrow.  Spain’s bonds fell yesterday after the nation sought as
much as 100 billion euros of financial support for its banks,
raising concern that investors holding government debt will rank
behind official creditors in the queue for repayment.  Standard & Poor’s  said the request for a bailout “has no
immediate effect” on Spain’s BBB+ credit rating.  ‘Disappointing’ Reaction  Before the aid was announced, Moody’s Investors Service
said it may review the ratings of euro-area nations as Spain’s
government tried to complete the cleanup of its lenders and
concern mounted that  Greece  could leave the currency bloc after
elections on June 17.  Japanese rating company R&I cut Spain to BBB+ from A today,
citing a decline in financing capacity.  The “disappointing market reception” to the Spanish bank
aid package suggests investors are losing confidence in policy
makers, Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of Pacific
Investment Management Co. in  Newport Beach ,  California , wrote on
CNBC’s website yesterday.  Italian  10-year securities  dropped for a fifth day. The
yield increased 14 basis points to 6.17 percent after climbing
to 6.30 percent, the highest since Jan. 25.  Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter told reporters in
Vienna today that Italy is able to refinance its debt through
 capital markets , be it at “very high prices.” Yields at 6
percent “have to be looked at closely,” Fekter said, adding
that it would receive aid if needed. The nation is due to
auction bonds maturing between 2015 and 2020 in two days.  Buying Time  “Italy is coming more under pressure,” said Allan von Mehren, a fixed-income strategist at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in
Copenhagen. “The focus has returned to the euro region’s
problems, particularly Italy’s debt burden.”  The  European Central Bank  has done its job to buy time for
governments to fix weaknesses in the euro’s foundations,
Bundesbank board member Andreas Dombret said.  “To those who ask what else the euro system can do, I say
that we have done our part, now it’s up to the political leaders
to deliver on the fiscal and structural policy side,” Dombret
said in an interview in  London  yesterday.  The ECB bought Spanish and Italian government bonds last
year, using its Securities Markets Program, to try to stop the
debt crisis from spreading to the euro region’s third- and
fourth-biggest economies. The program was put on hold earlier
this year after the central bank supplied 1 trillion euros of
three-year loans to euro-area banks in December and February.  Ten-year  Dutch bond yields  rose 14 basis points to 1.98
percent after the Netherlands sold 1.65 billion euros of
securities maturing in January 2033. The government planned to
sell as much as 2.5 billion euros of the debt.  Volatility on Finnish bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets, followed by French debt, according to measures of 10-
year debt, the spread between two- and 10-year securities and
credit-default swaps.  Finland ’s 10-year yield jumped 13 basis
points to 1.78 percent.  German debt has returned 3.9 percent this year, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish securities have lost 4.5
percent, and Italian bonds rose 7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  