-- Starbucks CFO Says Improving Food With Coffee Artistry
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-06-12T20:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/starbucks-cfo-says-improving-food-with-coffee-artistry.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  will give the same
attention to its food as it has to beverages, which has made it
the world’s largest coffee-shop operator, Chief Financial
Officer Troy Alstead said.  “The artistry of coffee that we’ve mastered so well for so
many years and hold so dear, there’s also that exact artistry
around food that we just haven’t frankly had until now,”
Alstead said during an interview in  Chicago  today. Starbucks
will use the newly acquired Bay Bread LLC and La Boulange brand
to improve its food ingredients and cooking techniques, he said.  Starbucks spent $100 million on Bay Bread, its biggest
purchase, to offer better quality food at its cafes and help
accelerate sales of non-coffee items. This year, the Seattle-
based company has opened a store selling flash-pasteurized juice
and announced plans to sell energy drinks called Refreshers.  The purchase of Bay Bread is the catalyst for a multiyear
program of a “significant change in our food,” Alstead said.
Food at Starbucks is a “multi-billion dollar opportunity.”  Food accounted for about $1.5 billion, or 19 percent, of
Starbucks U.S. store sales last year. Baked goods make up about
half of that  revenue , Alstead said.  K-Cup Sales  Starbucks said on June 4 that the Bay Bread deal would cut
fiscal second-half earnings by about 2 cents a share. At an
investor conference today, the company reduced the high-end of
its  earnings forecast ranges  for the third and fourth quarters
by one cent each, to 45 cents and 47 cents a share,
respectively. Both numbers trail the  average  of analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Starbucks rose 0.4 percent to $53.04 at the close in  New
York . The  shares  have gained 15 percent this year.  The coffee company, which began selling K-Cups for  Green
Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR) ’s brewers at its U.S. cafes today,
will use its 10,800 U.S. locations to introduce customers to the
single-cup pods, Alstead said. Keurig machines will be on
display in stores beginning later this year, he said.  Starbucks, which has sold branded K-Cups in grocery stores
since last year, signed a multiyear contract with  Green Mountain 
and intends to continue its partnership with the Waterbury,
Vermont-based company when its main K-Cup patents expire in
September, he said. Green Mountain has been exceeding Starbucks’
K-Cups needs, Alstead said.  There are more than 17,400 Starbucks locations worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  