-- State Revenue Tops Forecasts as U.S. Governors Reduce Spending
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-06-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/state-revenue-tops-forecasts-as-u-s-governors-reduce-spending.html
Most U.S. states are collecting more
revenue than they forecast this year as the economy recovers,
reducing budget deficits that have persisted in the nation’s
capitals since the recession.  Thirty-one states collected more than they expected when
drafting budgets for the current fiscal year, which ends this
month in most states, according to a report released today by
the  National Governors Association . Still, state leaders moved
to slow the growth of spending in the coming year, reflecting
uncertainty about the economy, the report found.  “State fiscal conditions are continuing to improve in
fiscal 2013, although many state budgets are not fully back to
pre-recession levels,” according to the report.  U.S. states are slowly recovering from the 18-month
recession that ended three years ago, which forced them to cut
back on spending on education, welfare and transportation
projects as tax collections tumbled. The need to balance
budgets, often mandated by state constitutions, exerted a drag
on the economy.  With tax collections improving, only eight states were
forced to close a collective $1.7 billion of deficits that
emerged in the budgets in the middle of the year, the fewest
since the recession.  Budget Shortfalls  For 2013, the difference between what states will collect
and what they were poised to spend narrowed to $30.6 billion
from $68.1 billion in the previous 12 months, according to the
report. Nineteen faced such shortfalls, down from 27 a year
earlier.  Governors proposed increasing spending by a total of 2.2
percent to $682.7 billion, a reduction from the previous two
years and about half the 4.1 percent projected jump in their
revenue.  “Despite some improvements in state budgets since the
depths of the recession, state budget growth is still
significantly below average, growing at less than half the
average rate of growth of the past few decades,” said  Scott Pattison , the executive director of the  National Association of
State Budget Officers , which worked with the Washington-based
governors group, in a statement.  Proposed spending increases for the coming year varied.  New
Jersey  proposed the biggest, a 7.2 percent jump, followed by
California and  Oregon , with jumps of 7 percent and 6.2 percent,
respectively, according to the report. Texas, Alabama and  Alaska 
were among the nine states still proposing cuts, according to
the report.  Public Employees  The diminished deficits reduced pressure on public
employees and local governments. Eleven states, including
California, Maryland and  Massachusetts , considered dismissing
workers in the coming year, down from 15 that did so in the
current year. Fourteen states, among them Ohio and  Pennsylvania ,
proposed paring back aid to localities, down from 17 states a
year earlier.  The gains in tax collections haven’t eliminated fiscal
strains in statehouses, including the cost of providing health
care under Medicaid, which has increased as a result of
joblessness and rising medical bills.  States’ financial stability may be threatened by a slowdown
in the economy, federal budget cuts or tax-law changes, said Dan
Crippen, the executive director of the governors’ group.  “Everywhere you look, there’s uncertainty for the fiscal
position of states,” he said in an interview.  Debt Crisis  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said this month that
the economy is at risk from  Europe ’s debt crisis and the
prospect of  federal budget  tightening in the U.S. Last month,
U.S. employers also added workers at the slowest pace in a year,
pushing up the  unemployment rate  and raising renewed concerns
about the pace of growth.  Even with increases proposed for the 2013 budget year,
spending would still be $4.6 billion below the 2008 peak. Half
of the proposed budgets that were below their peak from five
years before, according to the governor’s report.  “States remain cautious about the strength of the national
economic recovery,” according to the report. “State budgets
reflect a national economy in which growth is slow and not as
robust as in previous recoveries, yet overall state fiscal
improvement is occurring.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  