-- Sweden Would Suffer Least From Greek Euro Exit, Ekholm Says
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2012-06-12T09:32:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/sweden-would-suffer-least-from-greek-euro-exit-ekholm-says-1-.html
Sweden  would be the “least worst
off” country in  Europe  in the event of a Greek exit from the
euro, Riksbank Deputy Governor Karolina Ekholm said.  The largest Nordic economy’s direct exposure to Greece is
“negligible,” she said in a speech in Stockholm today. It’s
harder to quantify indirect exposure, she said.  Sweden, a European Union member that has not adopted the
euro, has emerged as a haven for bond investors as leaders
struggle to contain the region’s debt crisis.  Spain  over the weekend became the fourth euro nation to
seek a bailout as finance ministers agreed on 100 billion euros
($126 billion) in aid for the country’s banks. The plan comes
before the June 17 elections in  Greece  that may propel Europe’s
most indebted nation to exit the currency area amid opposition
to the bloc’s rescue terms.  Ekholm, who has argued for bigger rate cuts than the
majority of the Riksbank’s six member board, said in an
interview that she saw no real alternative to not helping the
Spanish banks. The anticipated move will have little bearing on
the bank’s next rate decision, she said.  Sweden’s 10-year yield rose four basis points to 1.49
percent today, as yields on 10-year Spanish debt gained 11 basis
points 6.61 percent and Italian yields jumped seven basis points
to 6.09 percent. Benchmark German bond yields rose seven basis
points to 1.26 percent.  Swedish policy makers will announce their next rate
decision on July 4. The bank kept rates unchanged in April after
cutting them twice since December after the economy contracted
in the fourth quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janina Pfalzer in  Stockholm  at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kim McLaughlin at 
 kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net  