-- Swiss Collector Sigg Gives $170 Million Art to Hong Kong
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2012-06-13T09:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/swiss-collector-gives-170-million-of-art-to-h-k-museum.html
Swiss art collector Uli Sigg has
donated HK$1.3 billion ($170 million) worth of contemporary
Chinese art to a  Hong Kong  museum scheduled to open in 2017.  Uli Sigg is giving 1,463 works from his collection while
the new M+ museum will pay approximately 22 million Swiss francs
($22.9 million) for an additional 47 works from the 1970s and
1980s, Lars Nittve, executive director of M+, said in a
telephone interview last night.  The works will anchor the permanent collection of M+, a
flagship modern art museum in the West Kowloon Cultural
District.  “It is not so common to have a major collection in place
before you have a building,” said Nittve, the founding director
of the Tate Modern in  London . “This is a major signal of
trust.”  The Sigg collection comprises works by leading artists,
among them Ai Weiwei,  Zhang Xiaogang  and Fang Lijun, Nittve
said.  Swiss Ambassador  Sigg is deputy chairman of Zurich-based Ringier AG, and
served as Swiss ambassador to  China  and  North Korea  from 1995 to
1998 and was also founding chairman of the Swiss-Chinese Chamber
of Commerce, according to the  Ringier website .  Sigg, 66, first visited Beijing in 1979 and helped
establish the first  Chinese joint venture  with a western company
in 1980 while working for Schindler Holding AG.  His collection is widely considered to be one of the most
important and comprehensive representations of Chinese
contemporary art.  “This is a collection of which it will be impossible to
build an equal,” said Nittve, “because of the scarcity of
works, and because they were collected so early and because of
its scale and diversity.”  Sigg stipulated that the museum should buy some major works
“to show its commitment to the collection,” Nittve said,
saying that this was a common practice among museums when
receiving major collections from donors.  Sotheby’s (BID)  has valued
the collection, he said.  Nittve said that the museum would be starting a competition
for the architectural design in August that includes the
collection in the brief. “We are trying to build a museum from
the inside out,” he said.  M+ will focus on 20th and 21st century art, design,
architecture and the moving image. It plans to construct a space
of about 60,000 square meters, the Western Kowloon District
Authority said in a press release.  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter @frederikbalfour.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 