-- Swiss Stocks Rise as Government Raises Growth Forecast
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-06-12T16:11:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/swiss-stocks-rise-as-government-raises-growth-forecast.html
Swiss stocks  advanced to a one-month
high as the government raised its forecast for economic growth
this year, outweighing a surge in Spain’s benchmark bond yield
to a euro-era record.  Basilea Pharmaceutica (BSLN)  AG rallied to a five-week high after
GlaxoSmithKline Plc agreed to buy its Toctino hand eczema drug.
 Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , the Swiss wealth manager founded in
1890, jumped after UBS AG recommended buying the stock.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  added 0.8 percent to 5,919.88 at the
close in Zurich, its highest since May 11. The benchmark gauge
has still dropped 6.7 percent from its  2012 high  on March 16
amid mounting concern that  Greece  will have to leave the euro
currency union. The Swiss Performance Index rose 0.6 percent
today.  “There is a lot that has been discounted in European
equity markets in terms of the region’s debt crisis,” said
Fernando Espinosa, a trader at Interbrokers Espanola in
 Barcelona , Spain. “Investors have driven stocks to very low
levels and hence valuations have been adjusted to very
attractive levels.”  The government’s expert group raised its growth forecast
for this year on domestic demand. Swiss  gross domestic product 
will rise 1.4 percent in 2012 instead of a previously projected
0.8 percent, the State Secretariat for Economic Affairs said. In
2013, the economy may expand 1.5 percent, compared with a March
forecast of 1.8 percent.  Household spending will rise 1.7 percent this year and 1.3
percent in 2013. Exports will increase 1.4 percent and 4
percent, respectively.  Spanish Borrowing Costs  Swiss stocks briefly pared their advance and European
government bonds fell after Fitch said euro-area countries face
lower ratings because policy makers are failing to demonstrate
they can bring the debt crisis under control.  Spanish 10-year yields rose to the most in the history of
the currency bloc after Fitch said the nation will
“significantly” miss its budget deficit targets. The rate on
Italian 10-year securities jumped to the most since January as
the country prepared to sell bonds on June 14.  Ratings in the currency bloc are under “strong downward
pressure,” Fitch Managing Director  Ed Parker  said at an event
in Oslo. If there’s “no light at the end of the tunnel soon,”
the risk of a breakup of the 17-member euro area will rise, he
said.  Bank Ratings  Separately, Fitch cut 18 Spanish banks’ long-term issuer
default ratings and 15 banks’ viability ratings.  Spain  was
offered 100 billion euros ($126 billion) in loans by euro-area
governments last weekend to rescue its banks.  “The bank bailout offer was a necessary step, but it also
brought more questions than answers,” said  Philippe Gijsels , a
market research analyst at BNP Paribas Fortis Capital Markets in
Brussels. “Something had to be done. But unfortunately it
doesn’t solve all the problems and it wasn’t positive enough to
turn everything around.”  Basilea Pharmaceutica rallied 4 percent to 46 Swiss francs,
the highest since May 3. GlaxoSmithKline Plc agreed to buy
marketing rights for Toctino for 146 million pounds ($226
million).  Glaxo’s Stiefel unit will pay as much as 50 million pounds
more if the drug reaches certain goals, and “double-digit”
royalties on U.S. sales three years after the product’s approval
there, Basilea said in a statement late yesterday.  Roche, Julius Baer  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the world’s largest maker of cancer
drugs, rose 1.6 percent to 156.20 francs and  Nestle SA (NESN) , the
maker of Nespresso coffee and Stouffer’s frozen meals, gained
1.3 percent to 55.50 francs. The two companies make up about 40
percent of the SMI.  Julius Baer  climbed 2.7 percent to 32.54 francs after UBS
AG raised its recommendation on the company’s shares to buy from
neutral. The brokerage said the asset manager’s balance sheet is
not at risk from the debt crisis. The shares dropped 14 percent
in 2012 before the upgrade.  Swatch (UHR) , the world’s largest watchmaker, dropped 2 percent
to 364.40 francs and Richemont, the owner of the Cartier brand,
fell 0.3 percent to 53.50 francs, paring earlier losses of as
much as 2.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  