-- Swiss Government Raises 2012 Growth Forecast on Spending
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-06-12T05:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/swiss-government-raises-2012-growth-forecast-on-spending.html
The Swiss government’s expert group
raised its growth forecast for this year on domestic demand.  Swiss  gross domestic product  will rise 1.4 percent this
year instead of a previously projected 0.8 percent, the State
Secretariat for Economic Affairs in Bern said in an e-mailed
statement today. In 2013, the economy may expand 1.5 percent,
compared with a March forecast of 1.8 percent.  Switzerland ’s economic recovery is showing signs of gaining
momentum after growth unexpectedly accelerated in the first
quarter. The KOF leading indicator increased for a fourth month
in May,  consumer confidence  rose to the highest in a year in
April, and  Burckhardt Compression Holding AG (BCHN) , which sells
compressors to companies including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , said
on June 5 new order growth may exceed 10 percent this year.  “This adjustment cannot detract from he fact that the
economic environment in  Europe  has recently deteriorated
further,” the state secretariat said in the statement. “The
economic dynamic is expected to remain relatively weak.
Preventing an escalation of the sovereign debt crisis in the
euro region is the key prerequisite for a continuation of the
positive economic development.”  Household spending will rise 1.7 percent this year and 1.3
percent in 2013 instead of a previously projected 1.2 percent
and 1.6 percent, today’s statement showed. Investment in
equipment and software may rise 0.5 percent in 2012 instead of
declining 2 percent as previously forecast, while exports are
seen advancing 1.4 percent and 4 percent this year and next,
respectively.  The government’s expert group publishes quarterly forecasts
for the Swiss economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  