-- Syrian Air Attacks Spur Concern as UN Charges Child Torture
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-06-12T15:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/syria-helicopter-strikes-spur-concern-as-un-cites-child-torture.html
United Nations and U.S. diplomats
highlighted the risk of renewed civilian massacres in  Syria , as
security forces stepped up attacks and a UN report charged them
with killing and abusing children.  The UN Supervision Mission in Syria said yesterday it is
concerned about the escalation of violence in Homs, an
opposition stronghold, with reports of artillery shelling and
fire from helicopters. The mission received reports of a large
number of civilians trapped in the town, including women and
children, and is trying to negotiate their release.  A UN report condemned violence against children by Syrian
security forces and pro-government militias. It said children as
young as nine have been killed, injured, tortured and used as
human shields during the conflict, while schools have been used
as military bases and detention centers.  President Bashar al-Assad’s forces have failed to crush a
15-month revolt in a crackdown that has left more than 10,000
dead, according to UN estimates. A cease-fire brokered by UN
envoy  Kofi Annan  in April failed to stop the bloodshed.  Eleven people were killed when the army shelled a
demonstration in the eastern city of Deir Ezzor, the Local
Coordination Committees in Syria said in an e-mailed statement
today. One fatality was reported from army fire in Homs, and one
in Hama, the group said. Syrian security forces have killed at
least 27 today, including four children, Al Jazeera television
reported.  ‘Deep Alarm’  State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  expressed
“deep alarm” about reports of intensifying violence against
civilians. Annan is “gravely concerned” by the latest reports
of violence, especially by “the recent shelling in Homs as well
as reports of the use of mortar, helicopters and tanks in the
town of Al-Haffa, Lattakia,” the UN said in an e-mailed
statement from Geneva.  UN observers in Syria “are assessing the situation and so
far they deem it unsafe to enter” Al-Haffa, Sausan Ghosheh, a
UN spokeswoman in Damascus, said today in an e-mailed response
to questions.  UN military observers should be allowed into Al-Haffa
immediately and all parties should take steps to ensure that
civilians aren’t harmed, Annan said, according to the statement.
He warned at the UN on June 7 that Syria was headed toward a
future of “brutal repression, massacres, sectarian violence and
even all-out civil war.”  Syrian Diplomats  More than 100 people, including dozens of children, were
reported killed last week by Syrian forces in Houla, near Homs,
spurring the U.S. and several European countries to expel Syrian
diplomats.  Heavy weapons are entering Syria through its borders with
Lebanon and  Turkey , Syria’s ambassador in Moscow, Riad Haddad,
said in an interview on June 1.  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar, ruled by
Sunni Muslim monarchies that are at odds with Syria’s Shiite
ally,  Iran , have publicly voiced support for arming the rebels.  While more than 70 percent of Syrians are Sunnis, Assad’s
family and many of his senior officials come from the Alawite
minority sect, which is affiliated with Shiite Islam.  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  warned on June 9
that there was an “urgent” need for an international
conference, which Iran should attend, to pressure both sides of
the conflict. The international community remains reluctant to
use force, and Russia and  China  have opposed harsher sanctions
against Syria at the UN Security Council.  Lavrov is scheduled to visit Iran on June 13, the foreign
ministry said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  