-- Syriza Seeking Greek Shipping Billions May Risk 60,000 Jobs
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-06-12T13:28:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/syriza-seeking-greek-shipping-billions-seen-risking-60-000-jobs.html
Greek ship owners who remitted more
than $175 billion in untaxed earnings to the country in 10 years
say they would relocate the businesses if a new government
scraps the fiscal exemption, risking as many as 60,000 jobs.  The country’s estimated 762 vessel owners pay no tax on
international earnings brought into  Greece  under rules
incorporated in the country’s constitution since 1967. The
Syriza party, which opposes Greece’s international bailout and
is shown by polls as vying for first place before a June 17
election, says it wants to abolish the tax break.  Greek maritime companies and others in related service and
supply industries employ 200,000 workers, of whom almost a third
could lose their jobs if local ship owners were to leave,
according to the National Confederation of Hellenic Commerce. As
well as vessel managers, work in insurance, ship repair and
other industries would also be at risk, according to Vassilis
Korkidis, the confederation’s president.  “Shipping is an offshore industry, and any act against it
is like shooting yourself in your own foot,” Ted Petropoulos,
founder of Petrofin Research, said by phone yesterday. He worked
in his family’s shipping business in the 1970s and also held
positions at lenders including  First National Bank  of Chicago
before starting the ship-finance consulting firm.  Greek vessel owners remitted 15.4 billion euros ($19.2
billion) to the country in 2010,  Bank of Greece (TELL)  figures in the
Union of Greek Shipowners’ annual report for 2011 showed.
Remittances between 2000 and 2010 came to 140 billion euros,
according to the data.  15% Share  Alexis Tsipras, leader of Syriza, said in a June 1 election
speech he would seek to abolish tax breaks for owners. His
office referred questions today to Gabriel Sakellaridis, head of
finance at Synaspismos, one of the groups making up Syriza, who
didn’t immediately return a phone call and e-mail seeking
comment.  The Greek-controlled fleet numbered 3,325 vessels, or about
15 percent of the global total, the union said. There were 762
 companies  managing ships from the country last year, according
to Petrofin.  George Economou, president of  DryShips Inc. (DRYS) , said he’s
“totally unconcerned” about possible changes to the  tax
exemption . The company owns a fleet of 58 dry-bulk ships and
tankers, according to first-quarter results released May 29.  “I wouldn’t even worry about it,” Economou said in a May
30 interview. “Your corporate office can be anywhere in the
world, so they would lose a percentage of GDP.”  Greece to Vote  Greeks are voting again this month after an election in May
failed to produce a viable governing majority.  New Democracy ,
the largest pro-bailout party, led Syriza by 22.7 percent to 22
percent, according to an ANT1 TV poll on June 1, the last date
surveys were made public.  “We need Greek shipping,” Korkidis of the confederation,
said yesterday by phone from  Athens . Unemployment could rise to
between 20 and 30 percent in the maritime industry from less
than 8 percent now if owners relocated to places such as Dubai
or  Singapore  to avoid a new tax, he said.  “Employment will drop in agriculture, hotels and
restaurants, retail trade, food manufacturing and in general, in
all other sectors that primarily serve household demand,”
Svetoslav Danchev, a researcher for the Athens-based Foundation
for Economic and Industrial Research, said by e-mail today.  Cargo Handling  Job losses through office closings, cuts in the use of
auxiliary services such as cargo handling, and fewer remittances
would be felt throughout the economy, said Danchev, who
completed a study commissioned by a Greek ship owner on the
industry’s importance for the nation.  Vessel owners worldwide enjoy a degree of fiscal immunity
because most countries levy taxes based on fleet size rather
than revenue, said Victor Restis, Greece’s fifth-largest
shipper.  “You cannot squeeze and tackle a person that is in
international shipping trade and finance and say, ‘I will tax
you,’” said Restis, who controls a fleet of more than 200
vessels. “The answer is ‘sure, tax me. Find me.’”  Tax benefits for owners of international vessels who chose
to base themselves in Greece were no better or worse than those
offered by other European nations including  Germany , Malta,
Cyprus and the Netherlands, Theodore Veniamis, the union’s
president, said in a June 8 interview in Athens.  Government Involvement  A lack of government involvement helped Greece’s maritime
industry to remain competitive, according to Michael Bodouroglou, chairman of  Paragon Shipping Inc. (PRGN)  The Voula,
Greece-based company operates 11 dry-bulk vessels and has three
more under construction as well as two  container ships , its
website shows.  “If we have tax officers visiting shipping companies, they
would eventually stop being as efficient as they are now,”
Bodouroglou said in a May 30 interview. “The most important
characteristic of this business is that we’re lucky enough to
have very little interaction with the state.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  