-- Clinton Denounces Russia Sending Helicopters to Syria
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-06-13T09:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/syria-called-civil-war-as-russia-ships-attack-choppers.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said  Russia ’s move to ship more attack helicopters to
the government in Syria will escalate “quite dramatically” a
conflict described by a United Nations official as a civil war.  Clinton’s comments yesterday create a new source of tension
between the U.S and Russia, even as UN-Arab League envoy  Kofi Annan  works against a mid-July deadline for his diplomatic
effort to rein in the violence and begin a transition to remove
Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad. Annan wants to draw Russia,
Syria’s ally, into the effort.  After 15 months of conflict, the level of violence has
increased, including massacres of Sunni civilians blamed on
government-backed shabiha militiamen. They belong to Assad’s
Alawite sect, which is associated with Shiite Islam. The
government is also using attack helicopters against the
opposition, the UN and U.S. have said.  Asked whether Syria’s conflict has become a civil war, UN
peacekeeping chief Herve Ladsous told reporters: “Yes, I think
we can say that.”  His remarks, confirmed by his office, came as UN observers
trying to reach the Syrian town of Haffa -- which Western
officials said may be the target of a planned massacre -- were
chased away by a mob throwing stones and metal rods. Shots were
fired at three vehicles as they headed out, the UN said.  The observers have been trying since June 7 to reach the
town, which they said was besieged amid heavy fighting.  Child Toll  Violence in  Syria  is taking a toll on children who have
been killed, injured, tortured and used as human shields,
according to a UN report. That abuse is being carried out
primarily by security forces and pro-government militias while
the opposition is recruiting child soldiers, the report found.  Government forces shelled the al-Khaldiyeh neighborhood in
Homs today as heavy clashes continued in the city, the U.K.-
based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said in an e-mailed
statement. A  video posted  on Youtube today showed what purported
to be images from Homs, including smoke rising from the city and
loud explosions. The authenticity of the videos couldn’t be
verified.  Assad’s attacks on what began as a peaceful opposition
movement pushed Syria toward sectarian violence pitting the
majority Sunnis against the Alawite leadership in a patchwork
nation of ethnic and religious groups. That’s left at least
10,000 dead, the UN estimates. Another 36 government soldiers
killed in the fighting were buried, the official  Syrian Arab
News Agency  reported today, while the Syrian Observatory said 23
soldiers died yesterday.  Weapons Supplies  Insurgents, deploying guerrilla tactics such as ambushes
and targeting army generals for assassination, are grabbing
control of territory. Pro-government forces are retaliating with
increasing brutality, as shown in the massacres of Sunni
civilians around Houla and in the farming village of Qubeir.  “The government of Syria lost some large chunks of
territories and several cities to the opposition and wants to
retake control of these areas,” Ladsous said yesterday. “So
now we have confirmed reports not only of the use of tanks and
artillery but also attack helicopters.”  The opposition, a loosely connected group of defectors and
other dissidents known as the Free Syrian Army, is gaining
access to better weapons seeping across borders, according to
two UN officials who spoke on condition of anonymity because of
the sensitivity of the topic.  Troops Massing  Gulf nations such as Qatar and  Saudi Arabia  are furnishing
the supplies, with the U.S. looking the other way, the officials
said.  Near the border with  Turkey , there are signs that
government forces have been massing in the past day or two
around Aleppo, Syria’s largest city and financial center,
Clinton said yesterday at a conference in  Washington .  As the situation degenerates, there will be more instances
in which the opposition breaks away and the state intervenes in
full force to try and snuff them out, according to  Andrew Tabler , a fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East
Policy, a policy group.  The failure of the Annan-negotiated cease-fire is prompting
other nations to consider options, such as UN-backed sanctions
and humanitarian corridors for civilian aid and safety that
would have to be defended with military force.  “The creation of safe-havens has become inevitable and is
relatively imminent,” Tabler said in a telephone interview.
“It’s not a question of if but when.”  Safe Havens  The establishment of civilian havens, which has been
compared to Bosnia in the 1990s, remains a much-disputed idea.
It would require a military presence to enforce, and Russia has
repeatedly resisted any form of outside intervention.  Assad’s forces have failed to crush the revolt, which began
peacefully in March 2011. At least 60 people were killed
yesterday, according to the  Local Coordination Committees , an
activist group. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reported
that armed men killed Mohammad Marwan Arafat, the former head of
the Syrian football association, and injured his wife, it said.  Russia, a Soviet-era ally of Syria, is seeking to enlist
 Iran  in a bid to engineer a political transition in Syria.
Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said on June 9 that there was an
“urgent” need for an international conference, which Iran
should attend, to pressure both sides. Clinton said involving
Iran would be a “grave error” because Iran has trained and
supported both Syrian government forces and shabiha militias.  ‘Confronted the Russians’  The international community remains reluctant to use force,
and Russia and  China  have blocked harsher measures against Syria
sought by Western and Arab powers at the UN Security Council.  Lavrov is scheduled to visit Iran today.  “We have confronted the Russians about stopping their
continued arms shipments to Syria,” Clinton said yesterday.
“They have, from time to time, said that we shouldn’t worry;
everything they’re shipping is unrelated to their actions
internally. That’s patently untrue.”  Clinton said the U.S. has a timeline to see if Annan can be
successful in efforts to quell the violence and initiate a shift
that removes Assad from power.  The “outer limit” is mid-July, when the UN Security
Council is to consider whether to extend the observer force, she
said. Without “discernible” progress, she said, “it will be
very difficult to extend a mission that is increasingly
dangerous for the observers on the ground.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  