-- U.K. Manufacturing Output Declined More Than Forecast
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-06-12T10:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/u-k-manufacturing-output-declined-more-than-forecast.html
U.K. manufacturing  fell more than
economists forecast in April, pointing to continued weakness in
the economy at the start of the second quarter.  Factory output dropped 0.7 percent from March, led by
pharmaceuticals, aircraft maintenance and food and drink
production, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in
London. The median forecast of 30 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a decline of 0.1 percent. Overall  industrial
output  was unchanged on the month, weaker than the 0.1 percent
increase forecast by economists.  A report earlier this month showed  manufacturing  shrank the
most in three years in May as government budget cuts and the
euro-area debt crisis hampered growth. While the Bank of England
left its bond-purchase target unchanged this month, policy maker
 Adam Posen  said yesterday he was “too optimistic” when he
abandoned a push for more stimulus in April.  “The underlying picture is very worrying,” said  Alan Clarke , an economist at Scotiabank in London. “We’re starting
to see tangible spillover effects from the euro-zone crisis.
 Risk aversion  is stopping investors from investing, companies
from hiring and consumers from spending.”  The pound rose 0.1 percent against the dollar from
yesterday and traded at $1.5498 as of 10:33 a.m. in London. The
yield on the benchmark 10-year U.K. government bond rose 2 basis
points to 1.676 percent.  Gas Leak  Out of 13 categories in manufacturing, seven rose and six
declined in April from the previous month, the statistics office
said. From a year earlier,  manufacturing production  fell 0.3
percent and industrial output was down 1 percent, the 14th
consecutive month of annual declines.  Within industrial production, oil and gas extraction
dropped 6.4 percent from March, partly due to the closure of
 Total SA (FP) ’s Elgin platform after a gas leak. The installation
accounts for about 5 percent of North Sea oil production,
according to the statistics office. Energy supply output surged
13.6 percent as the average temperature in April was the lowest
for that month since 1989.  The mounting euro-area debt crisis has boosted demand for
the pound, pushing it up about 4 percent against the euro in the
past three months.  In  Asia , investor concern about  Europe  has fueled a 5
percent gain in the yen against the dollar since mid-March. The
 International Monetary Fund  said today that Japan’s haven status
has led its currency to be overvalued and the central bank
should consider further monetary stimulus, including purchases
of longer-dated  government bonds  and private securities.  ‘Overvalued’  “The yen is moderately overvalued from a medium-term
perspective,” the Washington-based IMF said in a report. The
 Bank of Japan (8301) ’s asset-purchase program “could be expanded
substantially beyond current plans to increase the likelihood of
achieving the 1 percent inflation goal by end 2014.”  Elsewhere in Asia,  India  said  industrial production 
expanded 0.1 percent in April from a year earlier, less than the
1.7 percent increase forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  Bank Indonesia  held its key  interest rate  at 5.75
percent for a fourth month to support a weakening currency.  While the MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 0.6 percent, the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.5 percent.  Swiss Economy  In the U.S.,  confidence  among small businesses probably
fell in May from a month earlier, a Bloomberg survey showed
ahead of a report by the  National Federation of Independent
Business  today. The Labor Department may say import prices
declined in May from April, a separate survey showed.  The London-based National Institute of Economic and Social
Research will publish its U.K.  gross-domestic-product estimate 
for the three months through May later today. Britain’s economy
shrank 0.3 percent in the first quarter after contracting by
that amount in the last three months of 2011.  In contrast to the U.K. outlook, the Swiss government’s
expert group raised its 2012 growth forecast on domestic demand.
Gross domestic product will rise 1.4 percent instead of a
previously projected 0.8 percent, the State Secretariat for
Economic Affairs in Bern said. In 2013, the economy may expand
1.5 percent, compared with a March forecast of 1.8 percent.  The  Bank of England ’s Posen said the economic recovery has
“petered out in the U.K. and elsewhere,” and the “risk of
disorder in the euro area has reinforced the trends towards
excessive reluctance to invest.” Spain requested as much as 100
billion euros ($125 billion) of European bailout funds last week
to shore up its banking system.  “Further asset purchases by central banks can improve the
economic situation we are now in,” Posen said in London.  A Confederation of British Industry factory survey
published on May 23 found demand fell in May to the weakest this
year and the outlook “deteriorated sharply.” Still,  services 
unexpectedly maintained their pace of expansion in May, a report
from Markit Economics last week showed, signaling some strength
in the economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  