-- U.S. Employers Plan to Add Jobs in Third Quarter, Manpower Says
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-06-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/u-s-employers-plan-to-add-jobs-in-third-quarter-manpower-says.html
Employers in the U.S. said they
planned to boost hiring in the third quarter, a survey showed.  Manpower Inc. (MAN) ’s employment index for the period from July
through September climbed to 11 percent, the highest reading in
four years, from 10 percent in the second quarter, the
Milwaukee, Wisconsin-based, staffing company reported. The
measure was at 8 percent a year earlier.  For the first time since 2008, employers held positive
outlooks on hiring in consecutive quarters in all four regions
of the country and in all industries. The figures may ease
concern that the job market is faltering after Labor Department
data showed employment rose in May at the slowest pace in a
year.  “We’ve been climbing out of this slowly,” Manpower Chief
Executive Officer Jeff Joerres said in an interview. “It’s
nothing fantastic, but it’s a hand-over-hand rappelling up the
hill.”  Job growth puts Americans in a better position to increase
spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy. A
tepid recovery, the slowdown in  Europe  and U.S. policy concerns
related to taxes and health care may be making some companies
reluctant to hire.  “Companies are quick to adjust,” Joerres said. “If there
are some heavy clouds building on the horizon, you’ll see the
numbers slow down.”  Employment Cools  The economy added 69,000 jobs in May, less than the most-
pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. The
 unemployment rate , which rose to 8.2 percent, has held above 8
percent for 40 months, the longest stretch of such elevated
levels in the post-World War II era.  In today’s Manpower report, 21 percent of the more than
18,000 companies surveyed said they planned to increase staff
levels in the next three months. Six percent said they expected
to reduce payrolls.  Leisure and hospitality companies were the most optimistic
among the 13 industries polled, while those located in the
Midwest and South were more upbeat.  The Manpower survey is conducted quarterly and has a margin
of error for U.S. data of 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story: Lorraine Woellert in
Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  