-- U.S. Senator Expands Republican Chorus Calling on Holder to Quit
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-06-12T19:50:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/u-s-senator-expands-republican-chorus-calling-on-holder-to-quit.html
Senator  John Cornyn  of  Texas  today
joined a growing chorus of fellow Republican lawmakers calling
for the resignation of U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder over
his handling of probes into a federal gun investigation and
leaks of classified information.  Cornyn, a Texas Republican, called for the attorney
general’s resignation at a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing
where Holder was testifying. Cornyn follows dozens of  House
Republicans  -- 115 signing a “no-confidence” resolution -- and
at least three other senators in calling for Holder to quit.  “We’re all unhappy with the performance of the attorney
general,” said  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky , the Senate
Republican leader, who stopped short of also calling for
Holder’s departure. Cornyn “speaks for a lot” of Republicans
frustrated with the Justice Department, he said.  President  Barack Obama  has voiced “complete confidence”
in Holder, who has committed to serve through the remainder of
Obama’s term in January. In an election year fraught with
partisan conflicts on  Capitol Hill , Obama’s attorney general has
provided a ready target for Republicans.  “You’ve violated the public trust, in my view, by failing
and refusing to perform the duties of your office,” Cornyn told
Holder at the hearing. “It’s more sorrow than regret than anger
that I would say that you leave me no alternative but to join
those that call upon you to resign your office.”  Republican Target  Holder told lawmakers that he acted appropriately and
doesn’t have “any intention of resigning.”  Holder, a target of Republicans since soon after taking
office in February 2009, is facing a contempt vote in the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee on June 20. The panel
has demanded documents related to Fast and Furious, a law
enforcement operation that allowed illegal U.S. weapons
purchases to wind up at crime scenes in Mexico. Holder has said
the tactics were “misguided” and wouldn’t be used again.  White House spokesman  Josh Earnest  told reporters today
that more than 7,000 pages of documents were given to Congress
and the attacks on Holder are “nothing more than politics.”  “I have complete confidence in Attorney General Holder,”
Obama said on Oct. 6, praising him for “how he handles his
office. He has been very aggressive in going after gun running
and cash transactions that are going to international drug
cartels in Mexico.”  No-Confidence Pledge  Republicans have mounted their own election-year campaign.
Representative Paul Gosar, an  Arizona  Republican, has the
signatures of 115 House members on a “no-confidence”
resolution on Holder. “It is long past time for Eric Holder to
be held accountable for his failures as the attorney general,”
 Gosar said in a statement  issued April 27.  “The Daily Caller,”  an online publication, reports
finding 129 House members calling for Holder’s resignation.  Cornyn circulated today a YouTube video of his committee
statement on his  Twitter account  and later advised his Twitter
followers: “Will be on  Fox News  in a few minutes to discuss my
call for AG Holder to resign.”  Cornyn said that Holder misled Congress about the gun
investigation, and said the  Justice Department  faces a “clear
conflict of interest” in its investigation into leaks of
classified national security information.  “You won’t support a truly independent investigation,”
Cornyn said.  Holder said he has “great faith” in two U.S. attorneys he
named to lead investigations into leaks of classified
information. Holder rejected Republican lawmakers’ calls for the
appointment of an independent special prosecutor.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
Republican calls to appoint a special prosecutor would slow the
probe of the leaks.  “This whole episode in the last few days by my Republican
friends has been a strictly partisan, insincere attempt to
embarrass the president,” Reid told reporters today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  