-- U.S. Stocks Gain Amid Speculation of More Fed Stimulus
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-06-12T20:43:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/u-s-stock-futures-rise-as-fed-official-backs-stimulus.html
U.S. stocks advanced, rebounding
from yesterday’s decline, amid speculation the Federal Reserve
will take steps to stimulate the economy and after the  European
Central Bank  endorsed a plan to guarantee bank deposits.  All  10 groups  in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose as
commodity, financial and industrial shares had the biggest
gains.  Boeing Co. (BA)  jumped 3.5 percent as Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. raised its recommendation.  Textron Inc. (TXT)  rallied 4 percent as
Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. agreed to buy planes
from the company. First Solar Inc. surged 21 percent after
delaying the close of a German plant to meet European demand.  The  S&P 500  advanced 1.2 percent to 1,324.18 at 4 p.m. New
York time, after briefly erasing gains following Fitch Ratings’
downgrade of 18 Spanish banks. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
increased 162.57 points, or 1.3 percent, to 12,573.80. Trading
volume for  exchange-listed  stocks in the U.S. was about 6.2
billion shares, 8.6 percent below the three-month average.  “It has been a bit schizophrenic,” said Mark Luschini,
chief investment strategist for Philadelphia-based Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC, which manages about $54 billion. “What’s
taking place in the Spanish bond market is troubling. Yet
pessimism is so high that the prospect of any relief would be
enough to jump-start a rally in equities. It seems investors are
desperate for continued liquidity injections.”  Stocks rose as  Federal Reserve  Bank of Chicago President
 Charles Evans  said he would support measures to generate faster
job growth. The policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee
meets next week. Equities also gained as the ECB  backed  a
European Commission proposal to guarantee deposits.  ‘Significantly’ Miss  Earlier today, stocks fell as Spain’s bond yields climbed
to a record after Fitch said the nation will “significantly”
miss its budget deficit targets. The crisis in Spain, coinciding
with the prospect of Greece leaving the euro after elections on
June 17, has roiled markets. Benchmark gauges fell yesterday,
reversing early gains, as optimism over Spain’s bailout plan
gave way to skepticism it will halt the debt crisis.  “We’re going to just keep playing this game until there’s
some final outcome of what’s going to happen with the euro,”
Tom Wirth, who helps manage $1.5 billion as senior investment
officer for Chemung Canal Trust Co., based in Elmira, New York,
said in phone interview. “Europe is a total disaster.”  Optimism among global asset allocators “collapsed” this
month as Europe’s debt crisis prompted money managers to sell
equities and hoard cash to the highest level since 2008, a Bank
of America Corp. survey showed.  Underweight Stocks  Respondents, who together manage $522 billion, reduced
their holdings in stocks to underweight for the first time in
seven months, meaning they now own less than are represented in
indexes. Cash balances surged to 5.3 percent in June, the third-
highest level on record, while an index of risk and liquidity
sank to 30, the lowest level since September 2011.  “It’s not quite maximum bearish, but it’s close,” Bank of
America strategists Michael Hartnett and Gary Baker wrote in the
report to clients dated today. “Optimism has collapsed back to
lows of autumn 2011.”  A two-month decline, which drove the  S&P 500 (SPX)  to the
 cheapest  valuation since November, gave way to the biggest rally
in 2012 last week. Today, measures of raw material, financial
and industrial shares in the S&P 500 added at least 1.5 percent.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum producer, rose 2.5
percent to $8.52.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  added 2.9 percent to
$33.77. Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon plans to testify
before Congress tomorrow about his firm’s $2 billion trading
loss.  Boeing, Textron  Boeing climbed 3.5 percent to $72.58. The world’s largest
aerospace company was raised to outperform from market perform
by Sanford C. Bernstein analyst  Douglas Harned . The 12-month
share-price estimate is $92.  Air Lease Corp., the aircraft leasing company run by Steven Udvar-Hazy, is considering the purchase of 60 to 100 Boeing 737
Max aircraft with advanced engines as the company builds its
fleet of single-aisle jets.  Textron rallied 4 percent to $24.52. Berkshire Hathaway’s
NetJets division placed a record order valued at $9.6 billion
with Textron and Bombardier Inc. The transaction covers as many
as 150 Citation Latitude jets from Textron.  First Solar surged 21 percent, the most since  2009 (FSLR) , to
$14.95. The company is increasing production at its factory in
Frankfurt an der Oder, Germany, and will scale back in the
fourth quarter, Brandon Mitchener, a spokesman for Tempe,
Arizona-based First Solar, said today.  Record Gain  A123 Systems Inc. surged a record 52 percent to $1.58. The
maker of electric-car batteries said it has developed an
improved lithium-ion cell that it says can cut costs of
rechargeable and hybrid vehicles.  Michael Kors Holdings Ltd. (KORS)  gained 7.7 percent to $41.10.
The luxury-goods company forecast earnings and sales that
exceeded analysts’ estimates.  Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARNA)  rallied 11 percent to $7.88 as
investors anticipate the company’s weight-loss pill will win
U.S. regulatory approval.  Facebook Inc. (FB)  rose 1.5 percent to $27.40. The company’s
marketing and advertising  services  encourage users to purchase
products in stores and online, ComScore Inc. said, countering
criticism and research that questioned social-ad influence.  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  dropped 10 percent to $4.98, a record low. The
biggest maker of games played on Facebook fell after analysts at
Cowen & Co. said daily active users for its social gaming
declined 8.2 percent in May.  ‘Volatile’ Economy  FactSet Research Systems Inc. (FDS)  slumped 12 percent, the most
since 2001, to $91.70. The provider of financial data forecast
fourth-quarter revenue and profit that  trailed  analysts’
estimates, citing the “volatile” economy. FactSet Research
competes with Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC)  slid 1.2 percent to
$57.50. The seventh-largest U.S. commercial bank by deposits
said it will boost reserves by $350 million to cover demands for
refunds on faulty mortgages.  Harman International Industries Inc. (HAR)  retreated 3.9 percent
to $36.53, dropping 8.9 percent in two days. The maker of car
audio and entertainment systems fell after  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  said
yesterday it is working with automakers to put a Siri voice-
command button onto steering wheels. Harman said Apple is a
partner, not a rival.  The S&P 500 is still mired in a “bottoming phase” after
this year’s best weekly rally failed to reverse a downtrend in
companies that are most-tied to economic swings, RBC Capital
Markets Corp. said.  Price Ratio  While the benchmark measure for U.S. equities jumped 3.7
percent last week, the relative  price ratio  of the Morgan
Stanley Cyclical Index to the firm’s consumer index stayed below
a downward-sloping trend that’s been in place since March. The
cyclical index includes commodity and transportation stocks such
as Alcoa and FedEx Corp., while the consumer gauge tracks
companies that sell necessities such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  “If a broader low is developing in the market, then the
relative performance of cyclicals versus non-durables should
reverse its three-month downtrend,” Robert Sluymer, a New York-
based analyst with RBC, wrote in a note today. “So far the
trend remains down. We expect equity markets to back and fill
over the coming one to two weeks before again trying the
upside.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  