-- Commerce Secretary Takes Medical Leave After Car Accident
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-06-12T03:55:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/u-s-commerce-secretary-bryson-to-take-medical-leave-of-absence.html
U.S. Commerce Secretary  John Bryson 
announced last night he was taking a medical leave of absence,
two days after being treated for a seizure following a series of
minor traffic accidents.  “Effective immediately I am taking a medical leave of
absence so that I can focus all of my attention on resolving the
health issues that arose over the weekend,” Bryson said in a
statement released by his office last night. He transferred his
duties to Deputy Commerce Secretary  Rebecca Blank , an economist
whom he named as acting secretary.  Bryson, 68, was found unconscious in his Lexus about 5:10
p.m. Los Angeles time on June 9, after the second of two
collisions, police said. He had a seizure, went to a hospital
for observation and was back at work in  Washington  yesterday,
Jennifer Friedman, a Commerce Department spokeswoman, said in a
statement.  The Commerce secretary, whose agency has 47,000 employees
and a $7.5 billion budget, drove his car into the rear of
stopped vehicle and five minutes later struck another car two
miles away. Police are investigating possible felony hit-and-run
charges, which can result in at least a year in prison upon
conviction, the police said. Authorities tested his blood for
alcohol, and said results are pending.  “If they come back benign, there probably won’t be any
charges as far as the sheriff’s department is concerned,” Steve Whitmore, a Los Angeles County sheriff spokesman, said in an
interview. San Gabriel Police also would probably forgo filing
charges if medical conditions contributed to the incident, said
Lieutenant Ariel Duran.  ‘Appeared Disoriented’  Bryson “appeared disoriented” after his car rear-ended a
Buick that had stopped to wait for a train to clear a four-lane
road east of downtown  Los Angeles  in San Gabriel, said police
officials, citing the occupants of the Buick. Bryson struck the
vehicle a second time as he left the scene, prompting the
Buick’s driver to follow and call the 911 emergency line.  After driving south for about 1.9 miles, Bryson struck a
Honda Accord in Rosemead, California, about 5:10 p.m., causing
minor injuries to the passengers. He was found alone and
unconscious at the scene by police. There was no indication
alcohol or drugs were involved, police said.  A decision by the sheriff’s department against filing hit-
and-run charges may leave Bryson open to other penalties. In
California, a driver who has lapses of consciousness can have
his license revoked or suspended. Drivers can be placed on
probation, which lets the  Department of Motor Vehicles  monitor a
driver’s medical condition, according to the agency website.  ‘Medical Condition’  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said last night that
President  Barack Obama ’s “thoughts are with Secretary Bryson
and his family during this time,” according to a statement.  “Secretary Bryson assured the White House that the
Commerce Department staff will not miss a beat in their work
helping America’s businesses compete,” Carney said.  Bryson has told colleagues he never had a seizure before,
according to a Commerce Department official who requested
anonymity.  Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Deputy Mark Pope said
authorities were told Bryson suffers from a medical condition
that is considered relevant by investigators. He said he had no
details of the condition and could not say if it causes
seizures.  During an interview yesterday with KTIV, an NBC affiliate
in Sioux City,  Iowa , before Bryson announced his leave, Obama
said, “It sounds like it was health-related in some way, but
we’re going to make sure that obviously he gets the best care
and we’ll be able to make a determination from there.”  Locke’s Successor  Bryson was in  California , where he owns a house, to speak
at the June 7 commencement for the Polytechnic School in
 Pasadena , which his four children attended. Bryson and his wife,
Louise, have been board members, said Leslie Carmell, a
spokeswoman for the school.  Bryson became Commerce secretary after  Gary Locke  took over
as U.S. ambassador to  China .  Blank served as acting secretary for several months last
year after Locke’s departure and before Bryson took office. She
has worked for the agency since 2009, when she was named under
secretary for economic affairs and head of the Economics and
Statistics Administration. ESA oversees the Census Bureau and
the  Bureau of Economic Analysis .  Prior to arriving at the Commerce Department, Blank was a
senior fellow at the Washington-based  Brookings Institution  and
dean of the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy at the
 University of Michigan . She has also been an economics professor
at  Northwestern University .  Doubling Exports  Bryson’s agency is under pressure to deliver on Obama’s
goal of doubling annual U.S. exports to $3.14 trillion by the
end of 2014 from $1.57 trillion in 2009, according to a White
House report to Congress last year.  Bryson joined  Edison International (EIX) , based in Rosemead and
owner of electric power generation facilities, in 1984 and was
named chairman and CEO in 1990. He retired in 2008. In September
2010, he became chairman of  BrightSource Energy Inc. (BRSE) , an
Oakland, California-based developer of solar-power plants. The
company tapped a $1.6 billion loan from the U.S. government in
2011 to build its Ivanpah project in the  Mojave Desert .  To contact the reporters on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  