-- U.S. Open’s First 6 Holes to Test World’s Best Golfers This Week
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-06-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/u-s-open-s-first-6-holes-to-test-world-s-best-golfers-this-week.html
Any lingering memories of last
year’s U.S. Open, in which Rory McIlroy won with a record score
of 16-under par, probably will be quickly erased when players
hit their opening tee shots this week at the Olympic Club.  Their nightmare is not expected to end until they set foot
on the seventh tee, about two hours later, where they will be
greeted with a drivable 288-yard (263 meter) par-4 hole.  “The first six holes are going to just be brutal,”  Mike Davis , executive director of the U.S. Golf Association, said in
a news conference at the course in late April.  Not even  Tiger Woods , the winner of three U.S. Open titles,
could argue.  “It’s going to be a hell of a test,” Woods said shortly
after winning his fifth Memorial Tournament title two weeks ago.
Woods called the opening stretch at the Olympic Club, in  San
Francisco , the hardest holes “ever to start off a  golf
tournament .”  Among the players who ventured out for a practice round
yesterday, the only disagreement was whether the difficulty
would end after six holes. The entire course has been lengthened
by 373 yards and each green has been rebuilt, making the putting
surfaces firmer and faster.  “It’s always been hard, but now it’s really hard,” said
CBS golf analyst Bobby Clampett, a Monterey,  California , native
who said his first memory of seeing golf played in person came
at the Olympic Club at age six.  Unlike the previous four U.S. Opens played at the venue,
the course’s 520-yard opening hole, on a slight downhill that
slopes gently from left to right, will be played as a par-4
instead of a par-5. There will be no opportunity for players to
ease into their rounds.  Hardest Hole  “That used to be one of the only birdie holes out here,
now it’s the hardest hole,” said Spencer Levin, who grew up in
 Sacramento , California, and had played the course about 10 times
before this week.  Levin, making his third appearance in the  U.S. Open , was
among the players who said the change to a par-4 will make
birdies rare and bogeys acceptable.  If players are able -- with the first swing of the day --
to land the ball in the fairway, a second shot from at least 200
yards will be required to reach the green. It’s a quick reminder
that this year’s tournament will be much different than
McIlroy’s eight-shot victory last year at Congressional Country
Club in Bethesda,  Maryland .  “We’re definitely going back to the U.S. Open of old,”
said U.S. PGA Tour player Kevin Streelman, a Duke University
graduate who spent the past two days getting to know the course
better.  Hillside Location  After the opener, four of the next five holes are par-4s
measuring an average of 463 yards. The only par-3 in the opening
stretch is the downhill third hole, which will require a tee
shot from 247 yards.  “Even a good shot can miss the green,” Levin said.  The Olympic Club’s hillside location also contributes to
its difficulty. Many of the 18 holes feature bending, dogleg
fairways. Well-struck tee shots will still need a little luck to
settle into the short grass. More likely, shots that result in
club-twirling confidence on the tee box will produce frustration
as the ball rolls down a slope and into the rough, farther away
from the hole than expected.  “The thing that makes Olympic Club so difficult is you
have a lot of uphill, long iron second shots to greens that are
really firm and really fast,” Clampett said. “You’re not going
to be able to hold those greens and you’re going to make a lot
of bogeys, even if you’re hitting a lot of fairways.”  Cool Forecast  A year ago, a combination of pre-tournament rain and high
temperatures led to soft course conditions at Congressional.
McIlroy’s winning score of 268 was the lowest in the event’s
111-year history. In total, McIlroy broke or tied 12 tournament
scoring records.  With no rain, cool temperatures and windy conditions in the
forecast, there’s little chance those records will be touched
this week, McIlroy said.  “Last year was a little bit of an exception,” he said.
“This year, if you shoot four 70s you’ll have a great chance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  