-- U.S. Growth Depends on Fiscal Clarity, Silvia Tells Keene
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-06-12T16:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/u-s-growth-depends-on-fiscal-clarity-silvia-tells-keene.html
The  U.S. economy  needs more clarity
from lawmakers about taxes and spending to reverse flagging
growth, not more government stimulus, said  John Silvia , chief
economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC .  The recovery in the world’s largest economy is at risk
because consumers and businesses don’t know how lawmakers will
adjust  federal spending  and taxation in order to pass a budget
this year, Silvia said in a radio interview today on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt.  “We just need some clarity, we need Congress and the
president to get together and say ‘listen this is what we’re
going to do’” about the payroll tax cut, Bush tax cuts, estate
taxes and discretionary spending, Silvia said. “You don’t need
another stimulus. We just need people getting together and
saying ‘here are the rules and here’s what 2013 is going to look
like in terms of taxes and spending.’”  The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based economist said he
expects growth of 1.5 percent to 2 percent in the second half of
this year, while the  unemployment rate  will probably end 2012 at
around 8 percent to 8.2 percent. Wells Fargo & Co.’s mortgage
unit is the largest in the U.S.  Economy Grew  The economy grew more slowly in the first quarter than
previously estimated, expanding at a 1.9 percent annual rate,
down from a 2.2 percent prior estimate. The jobless rate rose to
8.2 percent in May from 8.1 percent for the first increase since
June 2011.  “Firms have to see that they can make profits doing
something, that they can see an opportunity and pursue it,”
Silvia said. “And right now a lot of firms are geared up for 2
percent growth, they don’t see 2.5 or 3, so they don’t see the
reason to expand and that’s why you’re getting a slowdown in
investment, especially for equipment and software, and a
slowdown in employment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in  New York  at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  