-- BOE’s Tucker Says U.K. Must Do More to Boost Lending Growth
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-06-13T09:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/tucker-says-u-k-officials-must-do-more-to-ease-credit-strains.html
Bank of England  Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  said U.K. officials may need to do more to ease credit
conditions and encourage lending as banks confront the mounting
debt crisis in  Europe .  “The banks themselves did not bring about the underlying
challenges facing the euro area,” Tucker said in a speech in
London late yesterday. “Given the costs to our economy, the
authorities, including” the U.K. central bank, “need to
consider what more we could do to alleviate tight credit
conditions in the U.K.”  The Bank of England has said that the turmoil in the euro
area, Britain’s biggest trading partner, poses the biggest risk
to the economy and financial stability. Tucker said that U.K.
lenders’ funding costs have risen on concern that they may be
unable raise adequate defenses against a collapse of the euro
area, and these costs are being passed on to corporate and
household borrowers.  “There is no amount of capital reasonably available to
them that will reassure the markets that they could withstand
the most extreme tsunami if the euro area were to unravel,” he
said at the event, organized by the Investment Property Forum.
“An event with low probability but gigantic impact affects bank
funding costs. That is gradually being passed on into lending
rates.”  Aggressive Regulation  Tucker’s colleague  Adam Posen  said this week that the Bank
of England should expand its stimulus program and buy assets
other than  government bonds  to “allow more direct targeting of
financial sector dysfunctions.” He said the “critical gap”
that needs to be addressed is lending to small and medium
companies.  Banks are also charging more for home loans. U.K. two-year
fixed mortgage rates rose to 3.66 percent in May from 3.22
percent in December, the Bank of England said today. The five-
year fixed rate increased to 4.27 percent from 4.06 percent.  Speaking at the same event as Tucker,  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  said
Britain has “probably been the most aggressive of all
regulatory” environments and that tougher rules may be having a
negative impact on credit growth.  “One of the things that policy makers have to wrestle with
in correcting some of the issues from the past” is that they
are “at the same time making banking unattractive and
unappealing and encouraging banks to withdraw credit,” he said.  While these measures “need to be taken,” the pace of
implementation is “very sensitive,” Hester said.  ‘Long Haul’  In response to questions, Tucker said steps taken by U.K.
authorities to improve financial regulation have bolstered
confidence.  “If we weren’t rebuilding the rules of the game of
finance, I think confidence would have remained very weak and
the economy would have been even weaker,” he said. “It’s a
long haul back to normality.”  The Bank of England’s Financial Policy Committee, which is
taking over financial regulation in the U.K., will hold its next
 quarterly meeting  in London on June 22 and publish a statement
one week later. It said in March that it “remained concerned
that capital was not yet at levels that would ensure resilience
in the face of prospective risks.”  Tucker said that many U.K. banks have made “good
progress” in repairing balance sheets since 2009. Still, tight
credit conditions are impeding the rebalancing of the U.K.
economy. Given companies’ and households’ dependence on bank
borrowing, it is “serious that bank lending growth has, in
aggregate, remained so weak,” he said.  “With the worst still possibly ahead of us rather than
behind us, banks should take what opportunities they can to
build their resources,” he said. “In the event of a tidal wave
rather than a tsunami, we might all of us -- banks and their
stockholders, as well as the authorities -- be grateful for a
few extra billion making the difference to firms’ survival.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  