-- Ukraine’s Yanukovych Rejects Pressure Over Tymoshenko
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2012-06-13T10:29:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/ukraine-s-yanukovych-rejects-pressure-over-tymoshenko.html
Ukraine’s President  Viktor Yanukovych  rejected “political” pressure over the jailing of
opposition leader  Yulia Tymoshenko , saying an appeal to  Europe ’s
human-rights court would only confirm the legality of her
conviction.  Yanukovych said the former Soviet republic has hired U.S.
law company  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP  to evaluate
the case against Tymoshenko, whose imprisonment has prompted
European officials to skip matches in the  European soccer
championship  Ukraine is co-hosting with  Poland . While an appeal
to the  European Court  of Human Rights by her lawyers may find
procedural infringements, no legal violations would be
uncovered, the president said.  “Political pressure is being applied to Ukraine,”
Yanukovych said yesterday in an interview in his office in Kiev,
the capital. “I want people to look at the Tymoshenko problem
from a legal perspective.”  The signing of an Association Agreement between Ukraine and
the European Union has been postponed indefinitely because of
Tymoshenko’s imprisonment, while EU commissioners and other
leaders from the continent are boycotting Euro 2012 games in the
country. She says the case against her was engineered by
Yanukovych to silence opposition before parliamentary elections.  Seven Years  Tymoshenko was handed a seven-year prison sentence in
October after a court ruled she overstepped her authority as
prime minister when signing a 2009 natural-gas pact with  Russia .
The EU, the U.S, and Russia have condemned her conviction.  Support for Yanukovych’s Party of Regions plunged to 15.1
percent from 28.5 percent in October 2010, a poll by the Kiev-
based  International Institute of Sociology  showed. The May 23-
June 1 survey of 2,040 people had margin of error of 2 percent,
the institute said on its website today. Tymoshenko’s party was
backed by 14.4 percent, up from 9.9 percent, it said.  Tymoshenko’s prosecution was carried out in a transparent
and legal manner, Yanukovych said. Ukraine lost $12 billion in
the last two years as a result of the Russian gas contract and
pays more than any other nation for the fuel, he added.  Prosecutors are seeking to file additional charges against
Tymoshenko, a leader of the Orange Revolution that helped
overturn Yanukovych’s 2004 presidential win, alleging  tax
evasion  when she headed gas trader United Energy Systems in the
1990s. She was also complicit in the murder of lawmaker Yevhen
Shcherban 16 years ago and may still be charged, First Deputy
Prosecutor General Renat Kuzmin said April 6. Tymoshenko denies
that allegation.  “Crimes carried out in various criminal cases were carried
out with Tymoshenko’s participation,” Yanukovych said. “This
isn’t a secret for the whole world -- this happened. Including
Shcherban’s murder. There were motives.”  Yanukovych’s comments on Tymoshenko’s involvement in
Shcherban’s murder destroy “any illusions of independence among
prosecutors and the courts,” her party said today in a
statement on its  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net 
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  