-- Ukraine Considers Seeking New IMF Aid Next Year, Yanukovych Says
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2012-06-12T21:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/ukraine-considers-seeking-new-imf-aid-next-year-yanukovych-says.html
Ukraine is considering seeking a new
aid package from the  International Monetary Fund  in 2013 after
the expiration of its existing $15.6 billion bailout, which has
been frozen since last March, President  Viktor Yanukovych  said.  The IMF program is a “barometer” that shows the former
Soviet republic where it has problems and where “everything is
fine,” Yanukovych said yesterday. Disbursements to Ukraine were
halted because the government failed to raise household utility
tariffs, a move the Washington-based lender has sought to trim
losses at state-controlled energy company NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy.  “We’re in talks with the IMF,” Yanukovych said in an
interview in his office in Kiev, the capital. “We don’t rule
out financing starting from next year.”  Ukraine is seeking to shore up its public finances
stretched by a current-account deficit that may reach 6.5
percent of gross domestic product this year, according to the
IMF. Yanukovych, whose party faces parliamentary elections in
October, has refused to increase household fuel costs. Efforts
to placate the lender by reducing the price paid to  Russia  for
the fuel by a third have so far failed.  The hryvnia declined to 8.1091 per dollar yesterday, the
lowest level since May 23. The yield on the government’s dollar
bond due 2013 rose to 10.6028 percent in May from 8.4733 percent
the previous month. The yield fell to 9.8303 percent yesterday.  Gradual Increase  While the government is considering raising household gas
tariffs in stages starting in 2013, it isn’t ready for a
“steep” increase, Foreign Minister Kostyantyn Gryshchenko said
May 23 in an interview.  Ukraine, which owes the IMF $5.5 billion, will probably
wait until next year to start talks with the lender, investment
bank Dragon Capital said May 31 in a note.  “As the political landscape after October parliamentary
elections should be more conducive to meeting IMF demands, we
expect the authorities to negotiate a new lending program with
the fund in early 2013,” Dragon chief economist  Olena Bilan 
wrote.  After expanding 5.2 percent in 2011, Ukraine’s  economy  grew
2 percent from a year earlier in the first quarter, the
statistics service said today on its website, revising up an
initial estimate of 1.8 percent growth.  GDP will probably advance about 3.9 percent for the whole
year, buoyed by Ukraine’s co-hosting of the European soccer
championships with  Poland , according to Yanukovych, who
maintained the government’s previous macroeconomic predictions.  “We hope that toward the end of the year economic growth
will gradually pick up,” he said. “We also hope Euro 2012 will
add a little.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  