-- Human Genome Returning 13% With Bet on Glaxo Sweetener
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-06-12T22:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/human-genome-returning-13-with-bet-on-glaxo-sweetener-real-m-a.html
Human Genome  Sciences Inc. investors
betting on a sweetened bid from  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  stand to
reap a 13 percent return, even as their expectations of securing
America’s biggest price increase diminish.  Human Genome, which makes treatments for lupus and
diabetes, has traded above Glaxo’s $13-a-share bid every day
since it was rejected in April, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. After less than 1 percent of investors tendered their
shares before Glaxo extended the offer last week, the stock
closed at $13.29 yesterday, signaling traders who profit from
acquisitions still expect the U.K. drugmaker to boost the price.  While the spread has narrowed as no rival offers emerged so
far during Human Genome’s sale process, WallachBeth Capital LLC
and Piper Jaffray Cos. said  Glaxo (GSK) , which collaborates with Human
Genome on three drugs, may raise its bid to $15 a share to
overcome the company’s poison pill. That would be 13 percent
higher than yesterday’s close. Glaxo’s $2.6 billion proposal was
already 68 percent higher than Human Genome’s 20-day average
before it was disclosed, twice the average premium for drug and
biotechnology takeovers since 2006, before the financial crisis.  “The risk-reward is fantastic,” Yemi Oshodi,  New York- 
based managing director of M&A and special situations trading at
WallachBeth, said in a telephone interview. Human Genome
shareholders “are willing to hold onto their shares and hold
out for a higher offer. Glaxo’s got the motivation, they’ve got
the money, they’ve got the synergies and so they’re the perfect
strategic partner for Human Genome. You’re literally stopped out
at $13. What are you going to lose?”  Active Search  Today, Human Genome shares rose 9 cents to $13.38.  Glaxo’s “offer price is inadequate,” Human Genome’s board
said in a press release June 8, in response to the tender offer
being extended to June 29. The company’s exploration of
strategic alternatives “continues to be active and fully
underway.” A spokeswoman for Rockville, Maryland-based Human
Genome declined to comment further.  London-based Glaxo declined to comment on whether it is
considering raising its offer, a spokesman for the company said
yesterday.  Human Genome almost doubled on April 19 when the company
said it rejected Glaxo’s $13-a-share cash bid and was exploring
options including a sale, inviting Glaxo to participate in the
process. Human Genome refused the offer partly out of concern
for its investors, two people with knowledge of the matter said
at the time. Of the company’s 25 largest shareholders, about 22
acquired stakes at a higher average price than Glaxo’s offer,
the people said.  Higher Bid  As traders placed bets on a competing offer, the shares
traded 12 percent above Glaxo’s proposal on April 23, the widest
gap of any pending U.S. deal, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The stock  ended  as high as $14.71 the following week.  Glaxo went directly to shareholders with its offer last
month, prompting Human Genome to adopt a poison pill to fend off
hostile takeovers.  With no new offers emerging, Human Genome’s shares have
since declined as traders pared back expectations for a rival
bid. Even so, the stock, trading 2.2 percent higher than Glaxo’s
bid, signals that some investors expect Glaxo to increase its
offer to entice Human Genome  shareholders .  As of last week, Human Genome investors had tendered
474,029 shares, just 0.24 percent of its outstanding stock,
Glaxo said.  Drug Revenue  “The fact that not many people have tendered their shares
and just extending the bid to the extent that they did tells you
that we’re probably going to see a higher bid here soon,”
Christopher Raymond, a Chicago-based analyst for Robert W. Baird
& Co., said in a phone interview. “The stock traded off from
where it was. But our conviction hasn’t changed.”  Glaxo collaborates with Human Genome on three drugs: the
lupus treatment Benlysta that was approved for sale last year
and experimental  medicines , albiglutide for diabetes and
darapladib for hardening of the arteries, that are in late-stage
testing.  By acquiring Human Genome, Glaxo can capture all of the
revenue from those drugs, including the potential $1 billion
that Benlysta could draw in sales, said  Ian Somaiya , a New York-
based analyst for Piper Jaffray.  Glaxo would also be able to cut at least $200 million in
costs through the acquisition by 2015, the company said in April
when its proposal was made public. The current offer reflects
those savings, it said.  Bid Bump  Human Genome also has $2.6 billion in net operating loss
carryforwards, a type of tax credit that a buyer could take
advantage of, said Baird’s Raymond.  The  revenue  opportunity, so-called cost synergies and
potential tax credits may compel Glaxo to boost its bid to $15 a
share to secure a deal, Somaiya and WallachBeth’s Oshodi said.
That’s a 15 percent bump from the current offer.  Glaxo’s $13-a-share bid was 68 percent higher than Human
Genome’s average trading in the 20 days before the proposal.
That’s already the third-highest premium paid in drug and
biotechnology takeovers valued at more than $1 billion in the
last six years and almost twice the average of 35 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The fact that Glaxo was aggressive and made a public bid
-- was interested in paying a fairly high premium to begin with
-- that all speaks to the fact that they would raise the bid by
a dollar or two,”  Eric Schmidt , an analyst with Cowen & Co. in
New York, said in a telephone interview. “I don’t think they
have to bump, but it’s easier for them to do a friendly deal as
opposed to an unfriendly deal.”  Standing Back  Schmidt also said Glaxo will likely raise the price to
about $15 a share.  Rajesh Varma, who helps manage 5 billion euros ($6.2
billion) for Human Genome shareholder DNCA Finance SA in Paris,
said Glaxo may resist a significant price increase.  “Human Genome doesn’t have much wiggle room,” Varma said.
The Glaxos “of this world can just stand back and cancel their
bids. Human Genome will go back, ask for a few percent higher
probably, and then take it.”  Human Genome shareholders are unlikely to get more than a
$2-a-share bump, Varma said. Based on the company’s 199.1
million shares outstanding, such an increase would raise the
total purchase price by almost $400 million.  Instead of boosting its cash bid, Glaxo could decide to
offer a so-called contingent value right tied to future drug
sales, Piper Jaffray’s Somaiya said.  Worth It  Glaxo plans to start a campaign to replace Human Genome’s
entire  board  and has already started contacting potential
nominees, Reuters  reported  May 30, citing unnamed sources
familiar with the situation.  In a May 10 regulatory filing, Glaxo said it may solicit
shareholder consent to remove Human Genome’s directors and elect
its own nominees, if the board doesn’t take “all actions within
its power” to satisfy its offer conditions.  Glaxo is still more likely to sweeten the offer than
abandon the deal so that it can cut costs and retain all the
revenue from the shared drugs, said Baird’s Raymond. He said
Glaxo could even end up revising its bid to $17 to $20 a share,
or as much as 50 percent above yesterday’s close.  “There is still some degree of expectation that the bid
goes higher,” Raymond said. “I don’t think anybody expects
that they’re just going to fold up their tent and walk away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 