-- UN Calls for Bangladesh to Protect Victims of Myanmar Clashes
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2012-06-12T12:35:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/un-calls-for-bangladesh-to-protect-victims-of-myanmar-clashes.html
The United Nations refugee agency
called for  Bangladesh  to welcome Muslim Rohingyas fleeing
violence in neighboring Myanmar after reports that border guards
had denied them entry.  “UNHCR is advocating with the Bangladeshi authorities to
allow safe haven on its territory for those who need immediate
safety and medical assistance,” the agency said in an e-mailed
statement today. Myanmar declared a state of emergency two days
ago in western Rakhine state, bordering Bangladesh, in a bid to
end rioting and arson attacks.  Myanmar’s President Thein Sein warned in a national address
that uncontrolled violence may hamper the goverment’s ability to
proceed with democratic reforms that prompted the U.S. and
European Union to suspend sanctions this year.  Moves toward greater political freedom after about five
decades of military rule have attracted investors to Myanmar,
one of  Asia ’s poorest nations. The outbreak of violence in
Rakhine underscores the challenge of unifying a country of 64
million people with 135 officially recognized ethnic groups, a
list that excludes the Rohingyas.  The unrest began after an alleged rape prompted a mob of
about 300 Rakhine Buddhists to murder 10 Muslims on June 3,
according to New York-based  Human Rights Watch . Myanmar imposed
a dusk-to-dawn curfew in four towns in Rakhine and prohibited
more than five people from gathering in public areas, according
to the New Light of Myanmar.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  called for an
immediate halt to the clashes, while reiterating support for the
country’s shift to democracy.  Violence ‘Spiraling’  The U.S. is “deeply concerned” and “urges all parties to
exercise restraint and immediately halt all attacks,” Clinton
said in a statement yesterday. “The situation in Rakhine state
underscores the critical need for mutual respect among all
ethnic and religious groups and for serious efforts to achieve
national reconciliation,” she said.  The government’s moves to quell the violence between
Rakhine Buddhists and Muslim Rohingyas and bring aggressors to
justice have been inadequate,  Human Rights Watch  said.  “Deadly violence in Arakan State is spiraling out of
control under the government’s watch,” Elaine Pearson, deputy
Asia director at Human Rights Watch, said in a statement, using
another name for Rakhine state. “Opening the area to
independent international observers would put all sides on
notice that they were being closely watched.”  Bangladesh border guards and the nation’s coastguard
yesterday prevented 500 Rohingya Muslims from entering the
country in 11 boats, Major Shafiqur Rahman said. Most were women
and children who traveled for as long as nine hours and lacked
food and water, he said by phone yesterday.  ‘Spillover’  “We didn’t see any refugees in the morning,” he said in a
separate conversation today. “Probably, they got the message
that we are not allowing them in. Still, we are on alert.”  Bangladesh and Myanmar “enjoy the best of relations” and
“are maintaining close consultations to ensure that
developments in the Rakhine state do not have any transboundary
spillover,” Bangladesh foreign ministry spokesman Mohammad
Monirul Islam Kabir said in a statement today.  China  supports Myanmar’s efforts to safeguard stability in
Rakhine state, Xinhua reported today, citing Foreign Ministry
spokesman  Liu Weimin . U.K. Foreign Office Minister Jeremy Browne
on June 10 called for restraint and urged British citizens to
avoid all but essential travel to Rakhine state, according to a
 statement  on the ministry’s website.  Rohingyas,  Sunni Muslims  who are descended from Arab
traders, are prevented from obtaining citizenship and traveling
freely throughout the country, according to Human Rights Watch.
About 800,000 Rohingyas live in Myanmar and 200,000 are in
Bangladesh, the group estimates.  In the early 1990s, Bangladesh forcibly repatriated about
50,000 Rohingyas to Myanmar, also known as  Burma , before the two
countries allowed the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees to observe the process, according to  Human Rights
Watch . From 2006 to 2010, 920 have been resettled to third
countries, mostly to  Canada ,  Australia  and the U.K., according
to the UNHCR.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  