-- Thunder Shakes Seattle Where Fans Ask Why NBA’s SuperSonics Left
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-06-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/thunder-shakes-seattle-where-fans-ask-why-nba-s-supersonics-left.html
Brian Robinson sat on the couch with
his children, 11-year-old Bryce and 9-year-old Kayla, trying to
explain why the euphoria of winning no longer belonged to them.  On the television was  Kevin Durant , the  National Basketball
Association ’s leading scorer, hugging his mother as the  Oklahoma
City  Thunder eliminated the  San Antonio Spurs  for a spot in the
championship series. One family’s celebration was another’s
lesson in losing.  “I was trying to explain that it could have been our
city,” Robinson, co-founder of the fan initiative “ Save our
Sonics ,” said in a telephone interview. “We could have been
getting ready for a parade.”  The Thunder, who host the LeBron James-led Miami Heat
tonight in Game 1 of the NBA Finals, have been in Oklahoma City
since the 2008-09 season. For 41 years prior to that, they were
the SuperSonics in Seattle, where the city embraced basketball
and coaches and players such as Lenny Wilkens, Slick Watts and
Gary Payton.  “I think it’s one of the great travesties in our game,
that the city of  Seattle  does not have an NBA team,” Greg
Anthony, an NBA TV analyst who played for the Sonics in the
1997-98 season, said on a conference call yesterday.  The SuperSonics won the NBA title in 1979, the city’s only
major men's sports championship of the past 95 years, and became 
the pride of the city when baseball’s Seattle Pilots left for
 Milwaukee  in 1970. In Oklahoma City, the Thunder ownership found
what it had been unable to secure by Washington’s Puget Sound --
a new arena.  Winning Record  This season, the Thunder finished 47-19, the second best
record in the Western Conference, and averaged 18,203 fans per
game, 100 percent capacity for Chesapeake Energy Arena. The team
is worth around $348 million, a 6 percent increase from last
year, with an operating income of $24.5 million, according to
Forbes magazine’s annual valuations.  “If I’m Oklahoma City, I want a team,” Charles Curran, a
38-year-old venture capitalist who grew up outside Seattle, said
in a telephone interview. “I don’t blame them.”  The team’s departure began in 2006, when owner  Howard Schultz , chairman of Seattle-based  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , sold the
SuperSonics to an investment group led by Oklahoma City natives
Clay Bennett and Aubrey McClendon.  When the new owners couldn’t get a commitment of $500
million in public funding for a new arena, they explored the
possibility of relocating to the Oklahoma capital, a city with
no major sports teams. The owners and the city of Seattle waged
a legal battle that was settled in July 2008 and the team was
allowed out of its lease.  Players Sold  “Every year it seems like Seattle incubates a few good
players that get sold to other teams,” JD Klein, a 42-year-old
resident of Redmond, Washington, said in a telephone interview.
“Here we just kind of sped the process up and said, ‘Here, take
the whole damn team.’”  Durant, drafted by the SuperSonics in 2007, was named NBA
Rookie of the Year in his only season in Seattle, showing
flashes of the talent that has made him a three-time All-Star
and scoring champion. Though the SuperSonics made the playoffs
once in their final six seasons in Seattle, they averaged 13,355
fans per game in the final year at KeyArena, 78 percent of
capacity, according to ESPN.  In the offseason before the move became official, the team
drafted guard  Russell Westbrook  and forward Serge Ibaka. Durant
and Westbrook, both 23, each ranked among the NBA’s top five
scorers this season. Ibaka, at 22 the youngest player on the
NBA’s All-Defensive first team, led the league with 241 blocks.  Thunder Favored  The Thunder are favored by Las Vegas oddsmakers to beat
Most Valuable Player James and the Heat in the Finals. Durant
finished second in MVP voting, his third consecutive time in the
top five.  Following the Thunder’s June 6 conference-clinching
victory, the  Tri-City Herald , a newspaper based in southern
 Washington , ran a headline: “Sonics Advance to Finals, Oh
Wait.” The subhead read: “Oklahoma City Steals Team, and
Steals Game From  San Antonio .”  Some SuperSonics fans blame Schultz, the former owner, and
fellow Seattle residents who opposed a new arena. Others find
Bennett and McClendon responsible for the team’s departure.  “They timed it perfectly but I don’t know if they will be
able to keep the team forever,” Klein said. “They’d better
enjoy it while it lasts.”  Schultz was unavailable for comment, according to Starbucks
spokesman Corey duBrowa. Bennett was also unavailable to
comment, Thunder spokesman Dan Mahoney said in an e-mail.
McClendon had no immediate comment, spokesman  Ron Hutcheson  said
in a telephone interview.  McClendon Questions  McClendon, the chief executive of  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) ,
was fined $250,000 by the NBA in August 2007 for telling an
Oklahoma City newspaper that his group didn’t buy the team to
keep it in Seattle. In the last six weeks, Chesapeake
shareholders have called for McClendon’s dismissal as the
second-largest U.S. natural gas explorer faces growing debt.  Curran said the city’s residents chose to reject the arena
deal after spending more than $600 million in city and state
money to help fund venues for football’s Seahawks and baseball’s
Mariners.  “The city was fatigued paying for stadiums and they made a
choice to lose the team,” he said.  Chris Hansen, founder of the San Francisco-based Valiant
Capital Management, has proposed a multipurpose arena that may
give Seattle a second chance at basketball. Hansen’s investment
group is willing to put up $800 million and is asking for $200
million in public loans to be paid off with revenue generated by
the arena, according to the Seattle Post-Intelligencer.  New Target  Hansen has said he would like a basketball team by 2017.
The  Sacramento Kings  are battling with city officials for a new
arena in the California capital. Hansen didn’t respond to an e-
mail seeking comment.  Robinson, 39, said he’s looking forward to sharing his love
of basketball with his two kids in person and not on the couch,
with another NBA team back in Seattle. That might come with a
bit of guilt if the new team moved from another city.  “Sure, there’s a small part of me that would,” he said.
“But it wouldn’t stop me from doing it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  