-- Unitas, Black & Decker Said to Make Infastech Bidding Shortlist
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-06-12T05:40:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/unitas-black-decker-said-to-make-infastech-bidding-shortlist.html
Unitas Capital Pte,  Stanley Black &
Decker Inc. (SWK)  and  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  are among companies that were
invited to make second-round bids for Infastech Ltd., a supplier
of screws used in  Apple (AAPL)  Inc.’s iPhone, said three people with
knowledge of the matter.  Potential buyers were asked to make binding offers in late
July and the company may be valued at $800 million to $850
million in a sale, the people said, asking not to be identified
as the process is confidential. Switzerland’s SFS Holding AG,
and  Nidec Corp. (6594)  and Minebea Co. of  Japan  have also expressed
interest in Infastech and were invited to make second-round
bids, according to the people.  CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ’s
private equity unit are seeking to sell the business in what
would be the largest disposal by private equity owners in  Asia 
this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The two companies
bought the supplier of screws, rivets and bolts in August 2010
from Acument Global Technologies Inc., and renamed it Infastech.
The purchase price wasn’t disclosed.  Spokesmen at CVC and Standard Chartered -- along with
officials at Stanley Black & Decker, Carlyle, Unitas, SFS, Nidec
and Minebea -- declined to comment or weren’t immediately
available.  Infastech makes screws used by companies including  Research
In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  and Apple, as well as businesses in the
automotive, aerospace, and medical industries. The company has
2,200 employees, according to its website.  Nifco Inc., a Japanese maker of plastic parts for cars,
earlier expressed interest in Infastech but dropped out from
bidding, one of the people said. Toshiki Yauchi, a spokesman at
Nifco, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  