-- Tupras Rises 2nd Day on U.S. Exemption for Iran: Istanbul Mover
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-06-12T15:16:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/tupras-advances-2nd-day-on-us-exemption-for-iran-istanbul-mover.html
Tupras Turkiye Petrol Rafinerileri
AS (TUPRS) , Turkey’s only oil refiner, rose for a second day after the
U.S. said Turkey was among nations that would be exempt from
sanctions for buying Iranian oil.  The shares jumped 2.7 percent to 37.70 liras at the close
in Istanbul, the highest level since April 17.  India, South Korea, Turkey, South Africa, Malaysia, Sri
Lanka and Taiwan will not be penalized by the U.S. for
continuing to import oil from Iran over the next six months
because they have proven they “have all significantly reduced”
the volume of oil they buy from Iran, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in a statement yesterday.  “We expect to see positive impact as the uncertainty
ends,” Istanbul-based brokerage Global Securities said in a
note sent to clients today.  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB) , which
handles the payments for Iranian oil, may also benefit, Global
said. Halkbank shares gained 1.2 percent to 13.10 liras.  Tupras said March 30 it would cut oil purchases from Iran
by 20 percent as the U.S. stepped up pressure on the country for
its nuclear program. A bilateral agreement allowed the company
to buy crude at lower-than-market rates from Iran.  Under a U.S. law enacted Dec. 31, nations have until June
28 to demonstrate they have “significantly” cut the volume of
their Iranian crude purchases. If they fail to do so, their
banks that settle oil trades with Iran will be cut off from the
U.S. financial system.  Turkey  will buy crude oil from  Saudi Arabia  and Libya as it
reduces oil imports from Iran, Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz  said
in televised comments. Tupras is in talks with Saudi Arabia for
long-term purchases, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  