-- Turkey Bonds End Longest Winning Streak in Three Years on Europe
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-06-12T16:18:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/turkey-bonds-end-longest-winning-streak-in-three-years-on-europe.html
Turkey bond  yields  rose for the
first time in nine days, snapping the longest winning streak
since July 2009, as risk appetite deteriorated after German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said it’s the wrong time to discuss
possibility of euro bonds as a solution to  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The yield on two-year fixed income securities rose four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 9.15 percent at the
close in Istanbul, erasing earlier losses that brought them to
the lowest level since Feb. 23 on a closing basis.  Introducing euro bonds “is putting the cart before the
horse and absolutely leads us down the wrong road,” German
Chancellor Angela Merkel said in a speech at her party’s
economic council in Berlin today.  Spain ’s government notes
extended a slump, pushing the yield on the five-year security
above 6 percent for the first time since June 4. This helped
erase gains recorded by lira bonds earlier today after the
central bank lent 1 billion liras at its lowest funding rate of
5.75 percent. The bank provided funding today at the minimum
policy rate for a sixth day.  “The risk-taking appetite in the globe has deteriorated
and  interest rates  have increased,” Erkin Isik, a fixed-income
strategist at  Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS (TEBNK) , said in e-mailed
comments.  Turkey’s central bank varies its funding rate on a daily
basis, maintaining borrowing costs within a 5.75 percent to 11.5
percent interest-rate corridor introduced last year.  The lira strengthened 0.1 percent to 1.8284 per dollar,
lifting its gains this year to 3.4 percent, the biggest
appreciation among developed and emerging market currencies
after the Colombian peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  