-- New York Chefs Strike Gold With Bargain Bistro Banquets
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-06-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/value-for-money-at-low-key-restaurants-new-york-dining.html
It’s midday on a Sunday and almost
30 people are lined up on a pavement in New York’s  West Village .
If it weren’t for the queue, it would be easy to miss the fact
that this is a restaurant, Buvette. It’s certainly low key.  It’s a similar story over in Brooklyn a few days later,
where I grab a seat at Battersby by arriving for dinner before 6
p.m. It’s lucky I had the address because the exterior tells you
little, while I’m glad I showed up early as the room fills.  These two no-reservations, mid-priced venues are among my
favorites in New York, where such neighborhood establishments
appear better and more plentiful than in my home city of  London .  Buvette was opened in January 2011 by Jody Williams, a
woman previously known for her Italian cooking in restaurants
such as Gottino and Morandi. The menu here is mainly French
bistro, with options such as charcuterie and croque-monsieur.
The walls are bare brick apart from vintage photographs and a
giant wine map.  It was the chef  David Bouley  who alerted me to Buvette.  “My favorite spot for inexpensive eating, or eating in
general, is Buvette, in the West Village,” he said. “Jody
Williams is doing pure honest cooking, super clean, fresh
flavors and it is one of the few restaurants I have found that
makes me feel warm all over and is reminiscent of my French
mother and grandmother’s cooking.”  Walnut Pesto  I sit at the counter and recognize Williams. She’s cooking
and serving. I order a tartinette of walnut pesto with parmesan
and thyme ($8) followed by a rich and alluring coq au vin ($15),
and then end the meal with a selection of fine American cheeses
and a coffee. It’s a simple meal and yet one of my favorite
during a dining trip to  New York .  It’s helped along by a wine list that offers plenty of
choices by the glass and carafe. The service is friendly and
efficient for somewhere so small, crowded and busy. There’s a
woman sitting next to me who’s eating alone and looks uneasy. I
notice how kind everyone is to her and feel a warm glow that I’m
sure is unrelated to the two kinds of wine I’ve tried. (I’d
recommend the Bordeaux Superieur Chateau Saint Julian 2006.)  The bill? $90.91 plus tip, including $31 for wine.  Buvette is at 42 Grove St. Information: +1-212-255-3590 or
 http://www.ilovebuvette.com/ .  Brooklyn Outing  Brooklyn is another country for some visitors, yet I enjoy
the area around the Bergen Street subway stop, which I first
visited last year to dine at Chef’s Table at  Brooklyn  Fare and
Franny’s. Battersby is a walk of about 10 minutes along Smith
Street and the cuisine is worth an excursion from  Manhattan .  The chef-owners Joseph Ogrodnek and Walker Stern are on
Zagat’s  30 Under 30 list  of New York culinary young talents.
They worked together at  Alain Ducasse  at the Essex House after
graduating from the Culinary Institute of America in 2002,
according to the Battersby website. Ogrodnek moved on to Anella,
 Gramercy Tavern , Union Square Cafe and Tabla; Stern went to the
Vanderbilt, Blue Hill and 81.  Sous-chef Mike Sowa hails from the Spotted Pig, the
Vanderbilt and 81; sommelier Erika DaSilva (“Wine Gal”) is
from Otto, Momofuku Ssam Bar and Ma Peche. It’s a strong team.  (I’m grateful to Ed Levine, the founder of
 http://www.seriouseats.com/ , for recommending Battersby.)  The seasonal menu is short and eclectic, mainly
Mediterranean/American with Asian elements that may relate back
to time Walker spent in  San Francisco .  You might start with Peekytoe Crab Parfait, celery, green
apple and cucumber; then maybe lamb shoulder with red-pepper
glaze, chick peas and piquillo pepper. How about short-rib salad
with green papaya, peanuts and chili; then day-boat scallops
with aromatic vegetable broth, pistachio and sauteed greens?  I wish there were more American wines on the list. Still,
DaSilva is great on talking you through the options. A Greek
white, Domaine Sigalas 2010, from Santorini ($12 a glass, $45 a
bottle), is versatile and very good with food.  The bill? $168.63 plus tip for two, including $71 for wine.  Battersby is at 255 Smith Street, Brooklyn. Information:
+1-718-852-8321 or  http://battersbybrooklyn.com/ .  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include:  James Russell  on architecture,
 Zinta Lundborg  interview.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines, in New York, at  rvines@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 