-- Verizon to Debut Data-Share Plan for Multiple Devices
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-06-12T20:16:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/verizon-wireless-to-debut-shared-plans-with-data-pricing.html
Verizon Wireless , the largest U.S.
mobile-phone carrier, will overhaul its data pricing this month
when it debuts a shared-usage plan for multiple devices starting
at $90 a month for one smartphone and 1 gigabyte of data.  The new Share Everything Plan includes unlimited calling
and messaging bundled with a specific data allowance for as many
as 10 Verizon Wireless phone lines. The offer will be available
June 28 and apply to all new customers, according to a
statement.  Verizon Wireless and  AT&T Inc. (T)  have been readying a shared-
data approach to billing to stop erosion of voice and text
revenue and emphasize one big bucket of Internet data to split
among multiple users. The move away from separate plans for each
device is intended to encourage customers to use more data and
buy larger monthly allotments.  “Today’s move by Verizon, while well telegraphed, is the
most profound change to pricing the telecom industry has seen in
20 years,”  Craig Moffett , a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  analyst
in  New York , wrote in a research note.  With the new plans, Verizon will eliminate the current
offers like the family plan for new users. The company stopped
offering an unlimited data plan last year. Existing customers
can keep their current plans, said  Brenda Raney , a spokeswoman
for the  Basking Ridge , New Jersey-based company.  Old Versus New  For a  comparable package  under Verizon’s old plan, a user
could combine a monthly $30 2-gigabyte data allotment, a $40
calling plan and a $20 unlimited text messaging charge for a
total of $90. Families could add additional members for $10 a
month. Each new family member had to buy a separate data
allotment.  Under the new offer, Verizon Wireless, co-owned by  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , will charge $40 a
month for smartphones, $30 a month for basic phones and $10 a
month for tablets. On top of that there are six data-service
plans starting at 1 gigabyte for $50, 2 gigabytes for $60, 4
gigabytes for $70 and as many as 10 gigabytes for $100.  “It is an effort to move ARPU up,” said Walt Piecyk, an
analyst with BTIG LLC in New York, referring to average revenue
per user, a measure of how much each customer spends each month.  As smartphones gain popularity, consumers have become less
interested in paying for calling plans and are finding free
alternatives to text messaging, Piecyk said. By making voice and
texts unlimited, Verizon eliminates the cheaper plans and turns
the price emphasis toward tiered data allotments for multiple
devices. The new offers also include hot-spot service that can
share the data connection with other devices over Wi-Fi.  AT&T’s Goal  By charging a monthly fee per device and eliminating the
cheapest prices such as a $10-a-month entry level for family
members and $10 text messaging, Verizon Wireless’s new plan is
not a bargain for budget shoppers, Piecyk said. The trade-off is
that big consumers of services like videos on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
YouTube and  Pandora Media Inc. (P)  streaming radio can soon share
big buckets of Internet data.  With the new shared data plans, Verizon can “provide
savings at higher ARPUs, which is where Verizon wants to move
their customers,” Piecyk said.  AT&T plans to roll out an equivalent offer in 2012.  “We’ll have something later this year,” said Ralph de la Vega, president of the Dallas-based company’s mobility division,
in an interview last month.  Verizon Communications gained 0.9 percent to $42.94 at the
close in New York. AT&T rose 1.1 percent to $34.98.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  