-- Wal-Mart Efforts to Buy Carrefour Assets Said to Slow
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-06-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/wal-mart-efforts-to-buy-carrefour-assets-said-to-slow.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s efforts to
acquire Latin American assets from  Carrefour SA (CA)  are slowing as
the French retailer focuses on turning around its European
business, said people familiar with the matter.  Wal-Mart has pressed Carrefour to sell stores in Colombia
and also  Brazil , said the people, who declined to be identified
as the negotiations were private. Carrefour’s Colombian unit
generated 1.69 billion euros ($2.11 billion) in sales last year.  Wal-Mart is targeting stores overseas as  revenue  abroad
climbs at 10 times the pace of U.S. sales. Doug McMillon, head
of Wal-Mart’s international business, said last month the
retailer is open to purchases in  Japan  and  Latin America , and
signaled that Colombia could be a possible site of expansion.  “Wal-Mart is realizing that the best strategy is buying
something” rather than building something new, Bryan
Gildenberg, an analyst with Kantar Retail, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “ Colombia  is a growing market and Wal-Mart
isn’t there.”  Wal-Mart and Carrefour have held on-and-off negotiations
for more than two years, with Wal-Mart initiating many of the
talks, said one of the people. After some conversations this
year, Carrefour has slowed the pace of talks as it deals with
deteriorating conditions in  Europe , according to this person.  While Wal-Mart remains interested in the operations, no
deal is imminent, said two of these people. A spokesman for
Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart declined to comment, as did
a spokeswoman for Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based Carrefour.  Wal-Mart rose less than 1 percent to $67.72 at the close in
New York yesterday.  International Performance  Wal-Mart’s international sales climbed 15 percent in the
year ended Jan. 31 to $125.9 billion, compared with a 1.5
percent increase for the U.S. operations.  Carrefour is in the midst of cost cuts to improve its
performance in  France , its largest market. Hypermarket same-
store sales there sank 3.1 percent last  quarter , excluding
gasoline and currency moves. Shoppers are abandoning those types
of stores as they seek out more convenient options, like smaller
local shops and online retailers.  Carrefour’s Brazilian business may have a value of 5
billion euros to 7 billion euros, according to estimates from
Caroline Gulliver, an analyst at Execution Noble in London.  Carrefour’s Colombia division is second in retail market
share in the country, behind French rival Casino Guichard-
Perrachon SA, according to Kantar. If Wal-Mart acquired the
business, it may take a few years to integrate it and take
advantage of growth in the market, said Mark Baum, managing
partner of Marcat Group LLC, a consulting company in Washington,
D.C.  “It follows Wal-Mart’s Latin American strategy,” Baum
said in a phone interview. “If they are investing for the long
haul it could work, but there won’t be an immediate return.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Welch in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  