-- Washington’s Top Lobbying Groups Hire Mostly Men: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   J e n n i f e r   P r i n c e
-- 2012-06-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/washington-s-top-lobbying-groups-hire-mostly-men-bgov-barometer.html
Women make up fewer than one in
three of the lobbyists employed by the 20 organizations that
spend the most influencing the U.S. government, reflecting male
dominance on  Capitol Hill , a prime avenue to jobs representing
special interests.  The BGOV Barometer shows that 29 percent of registered
lobbyists employed by the 20 companies and trade associations
that spent the most during the first quarter of 2012 are women,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Rankings.  Even so, women are better represented among groups trying
to influence Congress than they are on Capitol Hill itself,
where just 17 percent of lawmakers are female. As women ascend
to senior congressional staff positions in larger numbers, more
will go on to careers as lobbyists, said Holly Fechner, who is
co-chairman of the government affairs practice at Covington &
Burling LLP.  “We can expect women’s representation in lobbying to
change over time, but not as quickly as people would like,” she
said.  Only the trade groups representing doctors and hospitals
have a majority of female lobbyists, both those in-house and
those working for outside firms.  Merck & Co. (MRK) , the pharmaceutical
maker based in  Whitehouse Station ,  New Jersey , led among
corporations with women accounting for 37 percent of their
lobbyists.  ‘Own Boss’  “Women lobbyists often start their own firms and don’t
tend to go into the traditional settings of large law firms or
corporate lobby shops,” Fechner said. “Maybe they find it
easier to be their own boss, to get clients, to not have to fit
into a structure that wasn’t built for women.”  The associations and companies surveyed were those that
reported spending the most on lobbying from January to March,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-
based research group that tracks lobbying.  The Chicago-based  American Medical Association  employed 17
women, or 57 percent, out of 30 lobbyists, tops among the 20
biggest spenders.  “We’re very proud of the dedicated AMA advocacy staff who
provide a strong voice on public policy matters for patients and
physicians,” said Peter W. Carmel, president of the doctors’
trade group. “We always strive to hire the most qualified job
candidates to fulfill our mission of promoting the art and
science of medicine and the betterment of public health.”  Biggest Spender  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and its affiliates spent $26.4
million on lobbying from January to March, more than anyone
else. The chamber, the largest U.S. business lobby, had 155
people making the case on its behalf on Capitol Hill and in the
federal agencies, with 40 women among them, accounting for 26
percent of the team.  The highest corporate spender, Dallas-based AT&T Corp.,
spent $7.1 million during the first quarter of 2012 and employed
75 lobbyists, with women numbering 13 of them, or 17 percent.
That was the second-lowest percentage among the top 20, just
higher than Atlanta-based Southern Co., at 13 percent.  “So many of these top spenders are in heavily regulated
industries,” Fechner said. “They have long-standing
relationships with their lobbyists. There were fewer women
available when they first hired.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 