-- Yale Dorms, Classy Bank Display Happy Changes to Landmark
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2012-06-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/yale-dorms-classy-bank-display-happy-changes-to-landmark.html
The Morse and Ezra Stiles Colleges
at Yale University present crenelated concrete walls and skinny
windows that evoke Italian hill towns, yet their dark rooms and
bare-bones shared spaces stirred little affection.  That changed with a renovation last autumn that so improved
the 1962 buildings by Eero Saarinen that students are clamoring
to live in them.  Here’s another happy transformation, this one in  New York
City : The 1954 Manufacturers Trust building, which features
expansive, light-filled spaces, has been adapted beautifully to
house the clothing-basics retailer Joe Fresh.  Imaginative interpretations of history can bring new life
to buildings many thought weren’t worth preserving or were too
difficult to adapt.  Modernist buildings seem to demand our attention for the
wrong reasons. They were built to reject tradition, often self-
consciously, and embrace technical innovation. But their high
ideals can go out of date and their maintenance can be a
challenge.  While renovations may demand a special architectural
empathy, the results can be extraordinary.  At Yale, Philadelphia architect  KieranTimberlake  reworked
the labyrinthine layouts to unite single rooms into more
sociable residential suites.  The firm excavated a lawn fronting the complex to add
fitness rooms, a tiny theater and art spaces (including an
improbably popular weaving studio) to the colleges’ meager suite
of amenities.  Shafts of Light  Principal Stephen Kieran separated the buried addition from
the original buildings with a moat of small landscaped
courtyards.  Skylights bring unexpected shafts of light to the
underground spaces, where the stairways show distinctive
character. The new architects match Saarinen’s idiosyncrasy with
their own.  Manufacturers Trust was rightly designated a city historic
landmark in 1997. The building is a dazzling, three-dimensional
abstract composition of thin planes and transparency.  At a time when banks portrayed their financial stability in
stone palaces, Manufacturer’s Trust made a progressive statement
by engaging Skidmore Owings & Merrill LLP to form a seamless
whole of architecture, low-slung modern furniture and art.  Once the bank tenant departed, its extraordinary melding of
interior and exterior seemed to be a liability.  What new tenant would want this “Mad Men”-era museum
piece?  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO)  hired the original firm to adapt the
building to a retail tenant.  A Lawsuit  “We did a lot of soul-searching,” said Roger Duffy, a
partner, in an interview. “Because the building was so
important to the reputation of the firm, we took it on to do the
best that we could.”  Vornado “saw the architecture as a marketing advantage,”
Duffy said. He replaced the much-altered luminous ceiling with a
new, more energy-efficient one that subtly incorporates store
lighting. He poured a terrazzo floor to replicate the dazzling
white original.  Modernist watchdogs strenuously objected to some aspects of
the alterations. Vornado dismantled a spectacular 70-foot-wide
sculptured metal screen by the mid-century artist and designer
Harry Bertoia. Its mottled planes in a mix of tawny metals
stylishly contrasted with the crisp sleekness of the space.  Duffy also moved the entrance and a highly visible
escalator.  These may sound like trivial alterations, but Modernist
minimalism can depend on subtleties. A lawsuit was filed, and
eventually settled: Vornado got the entrance and escalator where
it wanted and agreed to reassemble the Bertoia screen.  Floating Unsupported  The muscular expansiveness remains along with glorious
light. The second floor, which is recessed from the exterior
glass walls, still looks as if it floats unsupported in space.
The gorgeous Bertoia screen nicely backdrops white-painted store
dummies.  Credit goes to volunteer watchdogs and the Landmarks
Preservation Commission, which kept the developer and the
designers honest.  I could pine for the purity of its original state. I’d
rather enjoy the way it stylishly wears color and informality.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in  New York  at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .
 http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at   mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 