-- Euro Rises 2nd Day Versus Dollar on Greek Austerity
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-06-13T21:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/yen-dollar-remain-lower-on-prospects-asian-stocks-to-advance.html
The euro strengthened for a second
day against the dollar as speculation increased Greece may seek
to modify its austerity program following the June 17 election
in a bid to remain in the monetary bloc.  The 17-nation currency pared its gain against the greenback
after  Spain ’s credit rating was cut three steps by Moody’s
Investors Service. The dollar fell versus a majority of its
most-traded peers as U.S. retail sales fell in May for a second
month, a sign the world’s largest economy is cooling.  New
Zealand ’s dollar fell against the greenback as the  Reserve Bank 
of New Zealand left its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged.  “There’s a little bit of short covering and a little bit
of the weak economic data from the U.S.,” said  Omer Esiner ,
chief market analyst in  Washington  at Commonwealth Foreign
Exchange Inc., a currency brokerage. “With the market being so
short euros, there’s that propensity to push very marginally
higher in the event that we don’t have any bad news out of
Europe.” A short position is a bet that an asset will decline
in value.  The euro advanced 0.4 percent to $1.2557 at 5 p.m.  New York 
time, after gaining as much as 0.9 percent earlier. The shared
currency appreciated 0.4 percent to 99.80 yen. The dollar fell
0.1 percent to 79.48 yen.  Kiwi Outlook  New Zealand’s central bank left interest rates at 2.5
percent and said the nation’s economic outlook has weakened
since the March statement. All 16 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey forecast the rate decision. The kiwi, as the South
Pacific nation’s currency is known, dropped 0.5 percent to 77.30
U.S. cents after earlier advancing as much as 0.5 percent. It
fell 0.7 percent to 61.38 yen.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six trading partners, fell 0.3 percent to 82.212.  Spain was downgraded to Baa3 from A3 by Moody’s, which
cited the nation’s increased debt burden, weakening economy and
limited access to  capital markets . The  yield  on Spanish 10-year
bonds reached a euro-era record of 6.83 percent yesterday.  Hedge funds  and other large  speculators  increased their
bets on a drop in the euro against the dollar to a record high
of 214,418 last week, figures released June 8 by the Washington-
based Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed.  The euro may drop to 88.51 yen within months, weaker than
the record low set in October 2000, according to Sumitomo Mitsui
Banking Corp., citing trading patterns.  Chart Pattern  The common currency’s fall in late May against the yen
shows that the euro has completed a “head-and-shoulders”
pattern and that it may drop to as low as 88.51 “in a few
months,” Daisuke Uno, chief strategist at the unit of  Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , said yesterday in an interview.  A head-and-shoulders pattern occurs when prices form three
consecutive peaks on a chart, with the middle being the highest.
A downturn’s start is signaled when prices fall below a neckline
serving as the pattern’s base.  The shared currency has fallen 5.1 percent against the
dollar since April as crisis concern increased after Greece’s
inconclusive May 6 election. The euro traded as high as $1.3487
this year, in February.  European leaders may consider relaxing Greece’s austerity
program after election, the Financial Times edition reported
without citing anyone.  Greek politician Alexis Tsipras said he expects the
European Union will do all it can to keep the nation in the euro
even if he wins elections and carries out his promise to repeal
the austerity measures.  Greek Elections  Greeks vote again after the May election failed to produce
a coalition government. In the final polls before this week’s
vote, one by Kapa SA showed  New Democracy  retaining its lead
over Syriza, with the support of 26.1 percent of 1,012 Greeks
surveyed. Syriza had 23.6 percent. That poll showed that Syriza
gained 3.5 percentage points in a week, compared with less than
a percentage point for New Democracy.  “Markets are very uncertain,” said Peter Rosenstreich, the
chief currency analysts at Swissquote Bank SA. “When it becomes
a coin toss, and there is the possibility of significant price
action in either direction, traders are likely to look for a
neutral position. It doesn’t take much to push the euro up in
this market condition.”  Italy sold 6.5 billion euros of 364-day bills at an average
yield of 3.972 percent, compared with 2.34 percent at an auction
on May 11.  Germany  sold 10-year bonds and index-linked debt
maturing in 2018.  Euro Performs  The euro has fallen 3.3 percent in the past six months, the
worst performance among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar is up 0.3
percent and yen lost 1.7 percent.  Sweden increased its nominal bond sale target to 59 billion
kronor ($8.4 billion) from a March estimate of 50 billion
kronor, the  Swedish National Debt Office  said today. The office
raised next year’s target to 63 billion kronor from 53 billion
kronor. Strategists at banks including  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  and
 Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  had predicted a limited to no increase in debt
sales.  The krona strengthened 0.5 percent to 7.0343 per dollar.  The dollar erased its gain versus the yen after the U.S.
Commerce Department reported a 0.2 percent decrease in  retail
sales  in May, following a similar decline in April that was
previously reported as a gain. Last month’s drop matched the
median forecast of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Fed View  The disappointing data add to bets the  Federal Reserve  may
introduce further measures to stimulate the economy. The  Dollar
Index  fell 14 percent from December 2008 through June 2011, when
the Fed bought $2.3 trillion in bonds in two rounds of
quantitative easing, or QE. The central bank is also replacing
$400 billion of short-term Treasuries in its holdings with
longer-term debt to keep borrowing costs down.  “This data supports the further easing case,” said  Greg Anderson , a currency strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York.
“We’re thinking first off about  Greece  and then we’re thinking
about what the Fed does next week, which presumably is highly
Greece dependent. If that’s the case, you can’t buy the dollar
too aggressively because you could go the other way on a QE
announcement next week.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 Dliedtka@bloomberg.net  