-- Yes, a President Bush Can Still Help Republicans
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-12T23:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/yes-a-president-bush-can-still-help-republicans.html
The  Republican Party  seems to be in
no mood for Bush nostalgia. Perhaps its leaders should
reconsider.  At a June 11 meeting with journalists sponsored by
Bloomberg View, former Florida Governor Jeb Bush identified two
issues on which an increasingly narrow Republican orthodoxy
undermines the interests of the party and the nation. In each
instance, at least one President Bush occupies the high ground,
morally and politically.  The first is immigration. Jeb Bush (who is a member of the
board of trustees of Bloomberg Philanthropies) lamented that
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  had effectively
appealed to “angry” voters in the Republican primary. Romney
endorsed Arizona’s crackdown on illegal immigrants, and
advocated making life for them so harsh that they would opt for
“self-deportation.” Other Republicans went further.  Herman Cain 
proposed an electrified fence along the Mexican border, while
Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota promised a “double-
walled” model. Meanwhile, Texas Governor  Rick Perry  was pummeled
by fellow Republicans for having allowed illegal immigrants to
attend Texas universities at in-state tuition rates.  No surprise, then, that Romney is “in somewhat of a box”
with Hispanics, Bush said. Hispanic voters could be decisive in
swing states such as Colorado, Florida, Nevada, Ohio and
Virginia. According to a Latino Decisions poll  released this
month , President  Barack Obama  leads Romney among Hispanics, 66
percent to 23 percent.  White Electorate  In state after state, the Republican primary electorate
presented a snapshot of the past. In  Arizona , where 58 percent
of the population is non-Hispanic white, 89 percent of
Republican primary voters were white. In Florida, where a
sizable portion of the Cuban population votes Republican, the
percentage of non-Hispanic whites voting in the Republican
primary was 25 points higher than their percentage of the state
population at large.  That must be especially troubling to Bush, who, as
Florida’s governor, tried hard to make the Republican Party
hospitable to Hispanics. As president,  George W. Bush  did
likewise, supporting comprehensive immigration reform to create
a pathway to citizenship for the estimated 11 million illegal
immigrants in the U.S. The bid failed, and in the years since,
Republican resistance to immigration has grown reflexive and
unyielding.  Rather than ceding the issue to Democrats, who have the
luxury of looking good by comparison, Republicans would do
themselves and the country a favor by reaching out to Hispanics
-- and supporting the kind of policies that would make such
outreach meaningful. Broad-based Hispanic support would breathe
new life into the party, enabling it to recast an otherwise
uncertain future as an overwhelmingly white political
institution in an increasingly multiracial society.  Then there’s the lesson of President  George H.W. Bush . In
Republican mythology, the elder Bush committed a political sin
when he negotiated and signed the  Budget Enforcement Act  of
1990, which required him to go back on his no-new-taxes pledge.
In fact, as  Jeb Bush  pointed out this week, the deal was both
right and courageous.  Sound Policy  Above all, it was sound policy, cutting spending by $324
billion over five years while raising the top marginal  tax rate 
to 31 percent from 28 percent, bringing in an additional $159
billion in revenue and instituting  rules  in Congress that
required any new spending or tax cuts to be paid for. The deal
created a foundation for President  Bill Clinton ’s breakthrough
budgets and the federal surpluses of the late 1990s.  Sadly, this history was airbrushed away by President George
W. Bush and Republicans in Congress in the next decade, when the
federal government ran up about $5 trillion in debt. Sadder
still is that much of the Republican Party continues to
subscribe to magical thinking on taxes and budgets.  The presidencies of both father and son offer many useful
lessons to Republicans. Not all of them are negative. Some
contain wisdom. Jeb Bush did his party a service in reminding
us.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: The editors on  Jamie Dimon’s day in
Congress ; Clive Crook on  Spain’s pain and Merkel’s folly ;  Edward
Glaeser  on  the 1912 election’s lessons for 2012 ;  Margaret
Carlson   on the joys and sorrows of being Jeb Bush ; Emi Nakamura
on  how the U.S. could become like Argentina ; Robert Hockett on
 splitting Europe in half .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 