-- Zuma Fires Second South African Police Chief After Probe
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-06-12T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-12/zuma-fires-second-south-african-police-chief-after-probe.html
South Africa ’s fight against crime
suffered a blow after President  Jacob Zuma  fired his second
police chief in three years in the wake of a corruption scandal.  Zuma dismissed Police Commissioner Bheki Cele yesterday
after a board of inquiry found that he was unfit for office.
Cele, who was appointed in 2009, was suspended in October after
Public Protector Thuli Madonsela found his actions “unlawful
and improper” in agreeing to pay 1.8 billion rand ($213
million) for two office leases, more than three times the market
rate.  Zuma is struggling to maintain public trust in the security
services in South Africa as he prepares to seek re-election as
head of the ruling  African National Congress  in December. South
Africa’s murder rate is 31.9 per 100,000 people, more than six
times higher than in the U.S. Cele’s predecessor  Jackie Selebi 
was sentenced to 15 years in prison for corruption in 2010,
while the head of the police’s crime intelligence was suspended
last month.  “There is a long way to go to restore faith in the
bureaucracy that manages South Africa’s crime-fighting units,”
Daniel Silke, an independent political analyst who has advised
Telkom South Africa Ltd. and Sanlam Ltd., said in a phone
interview from Durban. “This has severely damaged the
reputation of the administration.”  Mangwashi Phiyega, the chairwoman of the presidential
review committee on state-owned enterprises and the deputy
chairwoman of the independent commission on the remuneration of
office bearers, will replace Cele.  ‘Growing Concern’  “General Cele’s dismissal and the reasons for that point
to growing concern that there has been corruption and organized
criminal activity of a systemic nature within the South African
Police Services,” Hennie van Vuuren, director of the Institute
for Security Studies’  Cape Town  office, said in a phone
interview.  During Cele’s term in office, South Africa’s murder rate
fell in the year through March 2011 from 34.1 per 100,000 people
in the previous 12 months, according to police data published on
Sept. 8. Cele was criticized soon after being appointed for
telling police officers to “shoot to kill” when faced with
armed criminals, the Johannesburg-based Saturday Star reported
in August 2009.  Richard Mdluli, head of police crime intelligence, was
suspended as he faces an investigation of misusing state funds,
nepotism and meddling in politics. Mdluli and Cele have denied
any wrongdoing.  Crime is cited by companies as a deterrent to investment in
a country that’s forecast by the government to expand 2.7
percent in 2012, less than half the pace required to cut a 25.2
percent  jobless rate .  “There has been mounting public pressure, pressure from
within the ruling alliance, for action and I think that the
president could only sit on his hands for so long and was forced
to act,” Van Vuuren said.  The rand gained 0.5 percent to 8.4290 against the dollar as
of 7:11 p.m. in Johannesburg yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  