-- ‘Expendable’ Sly; Charming ‘Robot’; ‘Compliance’: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-08-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/-expendable-sly-charming-robot-compliance-movies.html
Sylvester Stallone  and his gang of
action been-theres fire up assault rifles and old catchphrases
in  “The Expendables 2,”  a sop of a movie for genre fans
unperturbed by blood and Botox.  A sequel to the violent box office hit of 2010, the faster-
moving “Expendables 2” serves up its winks and bullets with
greater volume than inspiration.  Arnold Schwarzenegger , in a screen return that’s little
more than a bulked-up cameo, says “I’m back” two or three
times, the last no funnier than the first.  Stallone, who co-wrote the script but tosses directing
duties to the workmanlike  Simon West  (“ Con Air ”) once again
plays Barney Ross, the leader of an all-star bunch of
mercenaries arm-twisted into a risky mission by government man
Mr. Church ( Bruce Willis ).  Jason Statham ,  Jet Li , Dolph Lundgren and  Chuck Norris 
(whose bizarrely flat delivery should delight his Internet cult
of hipster ironists) resurrect their familiar personae and
pandering wisecracks.  Newcomers Liam Hemsworth and Yu Nan bring little more than
facial elasticity to the team, while athletes-turned-actors
Randy Couture and Terry Crews might as well be credited as
“Those Other Guys.”  Van Damme  Following the pre-credits rescue of an old pal about to be
terminated, the gang gets tangled up in a plot to keep five tons
of plutonium out of the hands of Jean-Claude  Van Damme ’s
villainous Vilain -- whose name promises more Dr. Evil fun than
the script delivers.  Instead, the film (and whatever narrative tension is
suggested by rogue plutonium) gets lost in rat-a-tat editing,
pedestrian CGI and murky cinematography that lingers just long
enough to capture the explosive effects of assault weapons on
the human body.  “The Expendables 2,” from Lionsgate, is playing across
the U.S. Rating: *1/2 (Evans)  Robot Story  A man and his ’bot face the twilight in “ Robot & Frank ,”
a smart, charming sci-fi with more heart than hardware.  Set in a near future that seems all too possible, “Robot &
Frank” stars  Frank Langella , in yet another late-career gem, as
Frank Weld, a long-retired gentleman jewel thief and ex-con
shuffling through his empty home and final years.  Aside from some absent-minded shoplifting and harmless
flirtation with a sympathetic librarian (Susan Sarandon),
Frank’s days are filled with the disorienting nothingness that
exacerbates his oncoming dementia.  When his dutiful, resentful son Hunter (James Marsden)
presents a choice between an in-home aide or a nursing home,
Frank begrudgingly accepts the former.  Enter Robot (voiced by Peter Sarsgaard), a shortish thing
with the appearance of a child’s “Star Wars” storm trooper
costume and the personality of an amiable Blackberry organizer.  Wise servants were teaching their bosses long before  Miss
Daisy  took a drive, but “Robot & Frank” only toys with
sentimentality. There’s nothing precious about it.  “I am not alive,” Robot frequently reminds a seemingly
won-over Frank, but we’re never entirely sure the old con artist
isn’t three steps ahead of his caretaker. Frank’s mental acuity
revives, but he uses his refound sharpness (and his mechanical
accomplice) to return to the life of crime that destroyed his
marriage and devastated his children.  “Robot and Frank” is the first feature film from director
 Jake Schreier  and screenwriter  Christopher D. Ford . It’s a
poignant rumination on memory, regret and last chances, bolted
together with pure delight.  “Robot & Frank,” from Samuel Goldwyn Films, is playing in
 New York ; opens wide August 24. Rating: **** (Evans)  Stripped Naked  In April 2004, a man claiming to be a cop called a fast-
food restaurant in  Kentucky , informed the manager that an
employee had been accused of stealing from a customer and asked
her to help him deal with the situation.  His demands escalated from questioning the young woman to
strip-searching her and, eventually, worse.  “ Compliance ,” written and directed by Craig Zobel, re-
creates the event -- pretty accurately, to judge from news
reports. You watch with a sinking heart.  All it would take to expose the hoax is one skeptical
“Hey, wait a minute,” but neither the restaurant manager (Ann
Dowd) nor her co-workers are fast thinkers, especially on a
hectic night with lots of orders to fill.  Dowd is terrific; everyone is. Otherwise, though, the
picture feels barren. Its ugliness, psychological and aesthetic
(it would take a Bertolucci to find beauty among the fryers), is
clinical to the point of inhumanity.  The movie doesn’t make explicit judgments, yet it renders
the hoax so transparent that it encourages you to feel superior
to the working-class dorks who fall for it.  The real terror, though, lies elsewhere -- in the nagging
suspicion that most of us, under the right circumstances, are
vulnerable to pressure from authority.  That all too human frailty, in extreme form, is what made
the death camps possible. But it’s probably also what makes
society possible -- an idea the film doesn’t go near.  “Compliance,” from  Magnolia Pictures , is playing in New
York. Rating: *** (Seligman)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham  on books and New York
 weekend .  To contact the writers on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com . and
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 