-- ‘Moles’ Gave Hedge-Fund Manager Whitman Tips, U.S. Says
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-08-17T22:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/-moles-gave-hedge-fund-manager-whitman-tips-u-s-says.html
Whitman Capital LLC’s Doug Whitman
used illegal tips from company “moles” to make trades on
 Polycom Inc. (PLCM) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL) , a
prosecutor told jurors at the end of the hedge-fund manager’s
criminal trial.  “Mr. Whitman absolutely knew what was allowed and what was
not allowed, despite the story they spun up there on the witness
stand,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Jillian Berman said in her
closing argument today in  Manhattan  federal court.  Whitman, 54, is the first defendant in the government’s
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading to testify at trial,
spending more than two days on the stand. Jurors also heard
testimony from three witnesses who pleaded guilty to passing
illegal tips and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors.  Whitman is charged with two counts of conspiracy and two
counts of  securities fraud . The securities-fraud charges carry a
maximum 20-year sentence. The possible sentence on the
conspiracy counts is five years. Jurors deliberated for about an
hour today without reaching a verdict. They will continue
considering the case next week.  Convicted insider-trading defendants sentenced in the
Manhattan federal courthouse since the start of 2011 have been
sentenced to an average of about 22 months in prison, according
to a Bloomberg analysis of court records. Seven defendants who
were convicted at trial, rather than pleading guilty, got an
average of 58 months in prison.  Three Witnesses  Berman urged jurors to convict Whitman based on the
testimony of the government’s witnesses along with trading
records, recorded phone calls, instant messages and other
evidence. During the trial, the jurors heard testimony from
 Roomy Khan , Karl Motey and Wesley Wang, who said they passed
inside information to Whitman. All three have pleaded guilty and
are cooperating with the government in hopes of receiving
lighter sentences.  David Anderson , Whitman’s lawyer, attacked the three in his
closing argument, particularly Khan, a former neighbor of
Whitman’s in Atherton,  California  who admitted in her testimony
she had “lied a number of times” to government investigators
and others.  “The fact that Roomy Khan says something doesn’t mean a
thing,” Anderson argued. “Roomy Khan has lost her relationship
with the truth so long ago.”  Consultant Testimony  Anderson also urged the 12 jurors and three alternates to
disregard the testimony of Motey, a consultant hired by Whitman,
and Wang, a consultant who worked for Trellus Management and
Sigma Capital, a division of SAC Capital Advisors LP.  Berman said that Khan gave Whitman detailed earnings
information for Google in 2007, which she got from a woman at an
outside investor-relations firm that was working with the
 Mountain View , California-based search engine company. Whitman
allegedly used the information, that Google would miss analysts’
earnings expectations, to buy put options on the company’s
stock. He made about $590,000 in less than 24 hours, after
Google disclosed its quarterly financial results to the public,
according to Berman.  The next day, Whitman sent a $125 bouquet of flowers to
Khan with a note reading “thank you from whitman capital.”  Whitman claimed he sent the flowers because Khan, who also
made money shorting Google shares, had been unhappy beforehand.  ‘Nice Thing’  “I just thought it would be a nice thing to do,” Whitman
testified.  Whitman also traded on Polycom earnings information from
Khan and on Marvell tips that Motey passed him from two company
executives, Berman said. Whitman made more than $900,000 for his
fund from illegal trades, according to the government.  Anderson argued that Whitman is innocent because he had a
good-faith belief he wasn’t trading on improper information.  Anderson said Whitman didn’t believe Khan when she gave him
what prosecutors said was inside information on Google and
Polycom. On several occasions when Whitman believed Khan
actually had inside tips, about Polycom earnings in April 2006
and about planned acquisitions involving Hilton Hotels Inc. and
Kronos Inc., he refrained from trading on it, Anderson said.  When Khan told Whitman her Google source wanted to be paid
for the information she had provided, he told her she shouldn’t
do it, Anderson told jurors.  Prosecutors in the office of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
have won convictions or guilty pleas against 66 people charged
with  insider trading  since August 2009.  The case is U.S. v. Whitman, 12-cr-00125, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  