-- A Punk Prayer to Putin: Liberalize Before It’s Too Late
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-17T15:36:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/a-punk-prayer-to-putin-liberalize-before-it-s-too-late.html
Just months ago, few people in or
outside Russia had heard of Pussy Riot, a marginal group of
feminist performance artists.  The country’s opposition movement was a disorganized and
apparently spent force. Foreign leaders and global pop stars
such as Madonna and  Paul McCartney  had little to say on the
independence of courts in Moscow.  That all changed because of the trial that ended Friday
with the conviction of three Pussy Riot members, on  charges of
hooliganism  and inciting religious hatred. The court sentenced
the three -- who have already been in jail for five months -- to
two years in prison.  For President  Vladimir Putin  and the semi-autocratic
political system he has crafted over the past 12 years, the
attempt to punish the three women has been a self-inflicted
defeat. It has broadcast the repressive goals of his regime, as
well as the limits on his ability to crush dissent in a more
worldly and middle class Russia, using tools dusted off from the
days of the USSR.  The authorities gave the trial a prominent stage in a
Moscow court. The aim was seemingly to demonstrate the futility
and dangers of too actively opposing the regime, while
consolidating Putin’s core of support among religious
conservatives. The three women -- Nadezhda Tolokonnikova, Maria
Alekhina and Yekaterina Samutsevich -- were arrested in
February, when they lip-synced and mimed a “punk prayer” for
Putin’s removal, in Moscow’s Christ the Savior Cathedral. They
later put the images to music and posted the result online.  Show trials aim to inspire fear and flaunt the absolute
power of the state. Stalin achieved that in the 1930s by having
defendants tortured and their families threatened so they would
read scripted confessions. It was theater of the grotesque.
Thankfully, today’s  Russia  is different. Pussy Riot were able to
use the courtroom as a platform from which to  promote their
cause . The evident bias of the court, meanwhile, made the state
look ridiculous. This was theater of the absurd.  The three women pose no immediate threat to Putin or his
regime, but he should take note. Putin chose the worst of three
paths that were open to him after his controversial re-election
as president in March. He could have reinvented himself as the
deliverer of liberal reform, or he could have continued the
pretense of reform (the formula used when his protege  Dmitry Medvedev  was president). Either of these paths might have kept
Russia’s growing urban middle class quiet. Instead, he chose the
third path, repression.  Putin will be tempted to continue that strategy. It’s
politically difficult to turn back, and his opinion poll
ratings, though down compared with his earlier years in power,
remain above 60 percent. On Friday, police arrested several
people from a crowd of Pussy Riot supporters outside the
courtroom, including former chess champion  Garry Kasparov .  In the longer term, though, it’s hard to see a good outcome
for Putin or Russia if he tries to maintain absolute power by
squashing dissent. The Pussy Riot trial has helped to energize
Russia’s divided opposition -- who would have thought just
months ago that the hodgepodge of groups could get it together
to organize an  online election  for their own leadership? The
trial has also deepened a fissure between Russia’s rising middle
class and the religious conservative countryside.  So long as Putin relies on repression to rule, his support
and authority will erode. Should events undermine the economic
growth on which he has built his popularity, the only avenue for
dissent will be outright revolt. A sustained decline in the oil
price, for example, could cut government revenue and starve him
of the money he needs to keep pensioners and the military happy.
Given the economic clouds hanging over  Europe , that’s not
impossible.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 