-- Acer Net Income Misses Analyst Estimates on Tax Expense
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-08-17T09:16:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/acer-second-quarter-net-misses-estimates-on-one-time-tax-expense.html
Acer Inc. (2353)  reported profit that
missed analyst estimates after a one-time tax settlement in
 Europe , and said it’s concerned about demand for  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s new platform and will watch for consumer response.  Second-quarter  net income  at the world’s third-largest
computer maker was NT$56 million ($1.9 million), compared with a
NT$6.79 billion loss a year earlier, the Taipei-based company
said in a statement today. The average of 17 analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg was profit of NT$480 million.  Acer, which posted its first quarterly shipment growth in
two years and retook the top spot in the global notebook market,
posted a tax expense that cut its earnings. A more cautious view
toward Microsoft’s Windows 8 operating system prompted Acer to
lower its full-year shipment growth forecast while it remains
critical of the software maker’s plans to sell its own tablet
device.  “Originally we were expecting high growth in the second
half, but because of the global economic situation and the
uncertainty of the Windows ecosystem” Acer’s shipment growth
expectation is not as strong, Chairman J.T. Wang said on a
conference call. “Explosive growth of Windows 8 will not
happen.”  Tax Dispute  Shipments this year will be unchanged to 5 percent higher
than in 2011, less than an earlier forecast for 10 percent
growth, because distributors are conservative about Windows 8
while the global economy remains weak, investor relations
spokesman Kevin Lu said last month.  Acer had a dispute with Italian authorities over tax
related to transfer pricing and resolved the issue by agreeing
to a one-time NT$410 million settlement in the second quarter,
Chief Financial Officer Eva Ho said on the conference call.
There’s no further outstanding tax disputes, she said.  Consolidated revenue rose to NT$111 billion, from NT$102
billion a year earlier, missing the NT$115 billion average of 18
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue fell from the
prior quarter because of weak non-computer sales and foreign
exchange fluctuations in Europe, President  Jim Wong  said.  North American and Western Europe  markets  are still
“slow” while the China PC market is softening, Wong said.
 Latin America , East Europe and some Asian markets such as
Indonesia and  India  still see growth, he said.  Second-quarter  operating income , which tracks sales less
operating costs, was NT$433 million, compared with an operating
loss of NT$7.1 billion a year earlier and the average NT$601
million of analysts’ estimates.  Shipments this quarter will be similar to the second-
quarter and will climb by 5 percent to 10 percent in the fourth
quarter, Wong said.  Acer lost 0.9 percent to close at NT$27.50 in Taipei before
the announcement. The stock has declined 22 percent this year,
compared with a 5.6 percent advance in the benchmark Taiex
index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  