-- Thailand Sees U.S. Drought Lifting Rice as Stockpiles Grow
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-08-17T08:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/thailand-sees-u-s-drought-lifting-rice-prices-as-stocks-grow.html
Thailand , the world’s largest rice
exporter, is content to sit on a record stockpile as the worst
U.S. drought in half a century may boost prices, according to
Commerce Minister Boonsong Teriyapirom.  The country has room to store a further 20 million metric
tons of unmilled rice, building on a stockpile of milled grain
that the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  expects will climb to
12.1 million tons in 2012-2013. Thailand plans to spend a
further 260 billion baht ($8.3 billion) in extending a policy to
buy rice from farmers at above-market rates to boost incomes.  “We don’t have to hurry” to sell the stockpiles, Boonsong
said in an interview yesterday. “We will wait for the right
moment, the right price.”  Thailand’s haul is serving as a buffer against global grain
reserves that the International Grains Council says are at the
lowest in at least five years as droughts push corn and soybeans
to records. The policy, popular with farmers, may threaten the
nation’s position as the top exporter this year as buyers choose
Indian and Vietnamese supplies that are about 30 percent cheaper.  “People are already making forecasts that the price of
rice will go up because of the situation in the U.S.,” Boonsong
said at his office on Bangkok’s outskirts. “I don’t think we
will see the downside on the price of rice this year. I hope we
can sell more at higher prices.”  U.S. Drought  Rice futures have gained 7.2 percent in  Chicago  since the
end of May on prospects for a reduced crop and export curbs in
 India , and after the U.S. drought damaged corn crops. Corn and
soybeans have soared to records, adding to global  food costs 
that the United Nations estimates jumped 6.2 percent in July.
Global rice output this year will be smaller than previously
forecast, the UN’s Food & Agriculture Organization said Aug. 10.  Thailand’s government has spent about 260 billion baht to
purchase 16 million tons of unmilled rice from farmers since the
program began in October, Boonsong said.  The country may need to sell some inventory before the next
crop is gathered in October and November,  Concepcion Calpe , a
senior economist at the FAO in  Rome , said Aug. 1. Thai 5-percent
white rice will drop 15 percent to $480 a ton by Dec. 31,
according to the median of 10 estimates from traders and
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg earlier this month.  Food Crisis  The world may face a food crisis “very soon” as drought
ravages corn crops in the U.S., the world’s largest grower,
Shenggen Fan, director-general at the International Food Policy
Research Institute said Aug. 14. Corn surged to a record $8.49 a
bushel on Aug. 10. The worst monsoon since 2009 in India, the
world’s second-largest rice grower, may slash production from a
record, potentially lowering its shipments.  The monsoon-sown harvest in the South Asian nation may be
between 5 million tons and 7 million tons below a record 91.5
million tons a year earlier, P.K. Joshi, director for the South
Asia region at the Washington-based  International Food Policy
Research Institute , said Aug. 13.  Thailand has sought to sell rice directly to other nations
after private Thai exporters offered prices that were too low,
Boonsong said. The sales may lead to rice exports of as much as
9 million metric tons in 2012, he said.  “We want our export price to be higher,” Boonsong said.
“And it’s proven that an average export price, government and
private sector all-inclusive, is above $600 now.”  Export Sales  The nation agreed to sell 2 million tons to  China  and 1
million tons to  Indonesia  under government-to-government deals,
Boonsong said, adding that shipments to China have started and
deliveries to Indonesia will begin next month. Thailand is in
talks to sell as much as 500,000 tons to the  Philippines , he
said. China may import 1.5 million tons this year, while
Indonesia may buy 1.25 million tons, USDA data show.  “We have a very determined target for the price,”
Boonsong said. “We want to sell more expensive, better quality
rice. We are trying to differentiate our products.”  Rice shipments by Thailand are estimated to tumble 35
percent to 7 million tons this year, the lowest since 2000, the
FAO said Aug. 6.  Vietnam ’s exports may drop 4.2 percent from
last year to 6.8 million tons, while India’s shipments may gain
to a record 6.5 million tons, according to the FAO.  Rough rice for delivery in September dropped 0.5 percent to
$15.245 a 100 pounds on the Chicago Board of Trade at 2:55 p.m.
in  Singapore . Corn in Chicago, which traded at $8.0575 a bushel,
has rallied 25 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  