-- Akamai Plans Purchases in Security, Networks to Boost Profit
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-08-17T20:24:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/akamai-plans-purchases-in-security-networking-to-boost-profit.html
Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM) , frequently
the target of takeover speculation, is preparing to make some
acquisitions of its own to increase profit.  Akamai, which helps businesses deliver data more quickly
over the Internet, is shopping for security and networking
companies, said Willie Tejada,  senior vice president  and general
manager of the company’s enterprise cloud unit. In security, he
said he’s looking at firewall technology for Web applications.  Akamai’s customers, which include  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  MTV Networks 
and  Verizon Wireless , depend on the company to keep websites
running during peaks in demand -- for instance, during a major
news event or product announcement. Akamai is betting it can
make more money channeling that traffic if it sells extra
services such as security.  “We’re interested if the tech set we can acquire can get
us into a market in a faster than 12-month period,” Tejada said
in an interview at Akamai’s satellite office in  San Mateo ,
 California . “Those two things -- security and networking -- are
really the growth areas for Akamai.”  Akamai, with $1.2 billion in revenue in 2011, wants to add
$100 million in annual sales from new businesses within three
years. The company entered the security market last year, and
Tejada said he’s satisfied with its progress, though the company
doesn’t provide the unit’s sales figures.  Margins Narrow  Akamai, based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , could use a
profit boost. Its adjusted profit margin shrank to 43 percent
last quarter from 46 percent a year earlier. The figure excludes
items such as interest, taxes and stock-based compensation.  Tejada named one company, Zscaler Inc., in describing what
Akamai would be interested in, though the two sides aren’t in
talks, he said. Akamai could also make purchases to expand
geographically or to add talent, Tejada said.  Zscaler allows businesses to block viruses, prevent data
loss and control bandwidth through the Internet, rather than
forcing them to install software or hardware.  “There are a lot of different companies that are
interested in what we’re doing,” said Rebecca MacDonald, vice
president of marketing for Zscaler. She declined to comment on
whether the company is discussing a sale with anyone.  Akamai was the subject of more buyout rumors than any other
American company from 2005 through 2010, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Last October, a report in Business Insider
fueled speculation that  Google Inc. (GOOG)  would take over Akamai. Two
people familiar with the matter said then that the report was
baseless.  Tejada said he knew of no discussions to sell Akamai.  Akamai shares  fell 0.7 percent to $37.55 at the close in
 New York . The stock has gained 16 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  