-- Malawi, Tanzania Plan Talks on Lake Dispute Amid Oil Search
-- B y   F r a n k   J o m o   a n d   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2012-08-17T05:48:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/malawi-tanzania-plan-talks-on-lake-dispute-amid-oil-search-1-.html
Malawian President Joyce Banda will
meet her Tanzanian counterpart, Jakaya Kikwete, in the next two
days to discuss a dispute over Lake Malawi, where a British-
based company is exploring for oil.  The two leaders will meet at the Southern African
Development Community summit that begins today in Maputo, the
Mozambican capital, Banda’s spokesman Steven Nhlane said in a
phone interview from Lilongwe yesterday. SADC, as the community
is known, groups 15 southern African nations.  “The president wants to resolve the issue
diplomatically,” said Nhlane. “We know Malawi owns 100 percent
of the lake but that does not stop us from engaging with our
brothers in  Tanzania  in dialog to resolve this issue amicably.”  Malawi’s Energy Ministry announced in October it awarded
Surestream Petroleum Ltd., based in Reading,  England , a license
to search for oil in blocks 2 and 3 on Lake Malawi covering
20,000 square kilometers (7,724 square miles). Tanzania’s
government says exploration has extended into its half of the
lake, which it calls Lake Nyasa, and wants exploration halted
until ownership of the water body is determined.  Colonial Boundaries  The Anglo-German Treaty of July 1, 1890, signed between
Britain and  Germany , the former colonial rulers of Malawi and
Tanzania, gave ownership of the lake to Malawi. Tanzanian
Foreign Minister Bernard Membe told parliament on Aug. 5 that
Tanzania owns 50 percent of the lake and that his government had
asked Malawi to stop crude oil and natural-gas exploration on
the lake until the dispute over ownership was resolved,
according to the Citizen newspaper based in  Dar es Salaam , the
commercial capital.  “Our position is not to do any exploration activities on
the lake, because there is a process of resolving the dispute
under way,” Salvator Rweyemamu, director of presidential
communications in Tanzania, said in an interview on Aug. 8 from
Dar es Salaam. “It is what we agreed, and it’s the logical
thing to do. We should not do things that will instead aggravate
the dispute.”  Banda and Kikwete plan to hold further discussions on the
issue on Aug. 20 in Malawi, Nhlane said. Banda said the country
was exploring many avenues to resolve the dispute and doesn’t
expect conflict to erupt between the two nations.  Diplomatic Route  “Even if the diplomatic route fails it does not
necessarily mean we will go to war with our brothers and sisters
in Tanzania, because we can resort to other channels to solve
the matter,” Banda was quoted as saying by the Daily Times, a
Blantyre-based newspaper, yesterday.  No one was available for comment when Bloomberg called
Surestream’s head office. The closely held company didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mailed request for comment.  Tanzania already holds the second-largest natural-gas
reserves in eastern  Africa  after  Mozambique , having discovered
about 30 trillion cubic feet of the resource so far.  Malawi is one of the world’s 20 poorest countries, with
more than 40 percent of the population living on less than $1 a
day and an average life expectancy of 40 years, according to the
U.S. Agency for International Development. The southern African
nation relies on aid for about 40 percent of its budget,
according to the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frank Jomo in Blantyre via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .
David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 