-- Amerigroup Board, Goldman Sachs Sued Over WellPoint Deal
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-08-17T15:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/amerigroup-board-goldman-sachs-sued-over-wellpoint-deal.html
Amerigroup Corp. (AGP)  investors sued the
managed-care company’s board and  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc. for
allegedly putting their own interests ahead of shareholders’ and
ignoring other bids when they agreed to  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) ’s
$4.9 billion purchase offer.  Goldman Sachs was “hopelessly conflicted” as an adviser
on the transaction and pushed the board to ignore a more
lucrative deal with a suitor described as Company D, the funds
said in papers filed last night in Delaware Chancery Court and
made public today. The investment bank stood to gain $233.7
million if Amerigroup sold before Aug. 13 under a derivative
transaction, according to the filings.  “By recommending a quick deal with WellPoint as opposed to
Company D or any of the other interested suitors, Goldman kept
alive its chance of receiving a windfall profit,” the
plaintiffs said.  The  acquisition  announced July 9 would make Indianapolis-
based WellPoint, the second-largest U.S. health insurer, the
largest private provider of Medicaid plans for low-income
patients. Amerigroup, based in  Virginia Beach , Virginia, helps
states manage health coverage for the poor.  The lawsuit is a derivative action filed on behalf of
Amerigroup against its directors and some senior executives, as
well as New York-based Goldman Sachs.  Disgorgement Sought  The plaintiffs, the City of Monroe Employees Retirement
System and the Louisiana Municipal Police Employees Retirement
System, are seeking a court order barring the deal and requiring
that Amerigroup’s management disgorge $12 million in WellPoint
restricted stock grants. They also asked the court to find
Goldman Sachs liable for aiding and abetting the board’s alleged
breaches of fiduciary duty.  Maureen C. McDonnell, an Amerigroup spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking comment on the lawsuit.
 Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment.  The case is City of Monroe Employees Retirement System v.
Capps, CA7788, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington)  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  