-- American Renews Court Request to Void Pilots’ Contract
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-08-18T04:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/american-renews-court-request-to-void-pilots-contract.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines  again
asked a court to cancel its contract with pilots and impose cost
cuts, revising a proposal that a bankruptcy judge rejected
earlier this week.  American filed a motion in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
 Manhattan  yesterday seeking permission to void the labor
agreement after Judge Sean Lane on Aug. 15 said two elements of
American’s plan to reduce expenses weren’t justified.  American’s request extends the  Fort Worth , Texas-based
airline’s effort to reduce labor costs as part of its
restructuring. American blamed its November bankruptcy on labor
costs that it said exceeded competitors’ by as much as $800
million a year.  The airline said in a statement it filed the motion “to
keep moving forward to achieve the savings and flexibility
needed for our successful restructuring.”  American’s flight attendants are scheduled to finish voting
on a new contract with the airline on Aug. 19. If they reject
the agreement, Lane will rule on whether American can impose new
terms on the union. The Transport Workers Union, which
represents mechanics, baggage handlers and other ground workers
at American, has ratified new contracts.  Pilots’ Union  Lane’s ruling against American’s plan to impose cost-
cutting on pilots came after the  Allied Pilots Association  on
Aug. 8 turned down a sweetened offer that would have eliminated
furloughs and given them a 13.5 percent stake in AMR after it
emerged from bankruptcy.  Even if Lane allows AMR to void the contract, the company
would have to negotiate a long-term deal. The judge scheduled a
hearing on American’s request for Sept. 4.  “If you want to have the irrevocable anger of 8,000
pilots, this is the path to go down,” Tom Hoban, a union
spokesman, said in an interview. “It doesn’t appear to be a
wise strategy.”  The union is hoping American will consider returning to
negotiations before Lane rules, he said.  The committee representing unsecured creditors said it
“reluctantly” supports equity stakes for the three unions when
American emerges from bankruptcy as long as consensual labor
agreements “are reached promptly.”  “The committee will not support equity stakes or claims
for any labor organization that does not ratify a collective
bargaining agreement nor will the committee support any further
economic value to  labor organizations  beyond the current
proposals,” the committee said in an Aug. 16 statement.  Potential Mergers  The wrangling over labor contracts comes as American Chief
Executive Officer  Tom Horton  weighs potential mergers for the
company’s reorganization. American’s three unions have reached
tentative labor deals with  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , which backs a
tie-up with American.  In his decision, the judge agreed that “significant
changes” must be made to the pilots’ contract for American to
reorganize. Lane said American’s plan to lift restrictions on
code-sharing and pilot furloughs wasn’t justified. He invited
the airline to make changes and file a new request to reject the
contract.  Furloughed workers are those who have been laid off and are
offered their jobs back before new employees are hired. Code-
sharing is the industry practice of agreements between airlines
to put each other’s codes on flights and book passengers on
those planes.  Workforce Reductions  American originally said it would cut 13,000 jobs, or about
18 percent of its workforce, under a  plan  to reduce annual
operating expense by $2 billion. Labor made up $1.25 billion of
the total, including $990 million sought from union workers.  The airline later modified its demands, agreeing to freeze
rather than terminate employee pensions and lowering total cost
reductions sought to 17 percent from 20 percent for each work
group.  American has dropped any provision on possible pilot
furloughs from its revised proposal. The airline will retain
existing limits in its current contract, which provides furlough
protection to 77 percent of pilots, said  Bruce Hicks , an
American spokesman.  American said in its court filing that it “materially
circumscribed” the circumstances under which it would be
permitted to engage in code-sharing.  “American has taken heed of the court’s decision as to
deficiencies of its previously open-ended domestic code-sharing
proposal and has made a revised proposal that imposes real
limits,” the company said.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  