-- Anthrax Drug User Death Caused by Suspected Heroin Contamination
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m   a n d   M e h r e e n   K h a n
-- 2012-08-17T12:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/anthrax-drug-user-death-caused-by-suspected-heroin-contamination.html
An injecting drug user in  England 
who died in the hospital had a confirmed case of anthrax in a
growing instance of the condition from contaminated drugs, the
Health Protection Agency said today.  The fatality in Blackpool, northwest England follows the
identification of seven anthrax cases since June in Scotland,
 Germany , Denmark and  France , with the source presumed to be
contaminated heroin, said the HPA in an e-mailed statement.
There was a similar fatality in Blackpool from anthrax through
drug injection in February 2010.  Drug injectors, who are vulnerable to a range of infectious
diseases, may become infected with the anthrax bacteria when
heroin is contaminated with anthrax spores causing an infection,
according to the HPA. The condition can be cured if treatment
starts at an early stage and is rarely passed from human to
human.  “Anthrax can be cured with antibiotics, if treatment is
started early,” said Dilys Morgan, a doctor specialized in
infectious diseases at the HPA. “It is therefore important for
medical professionals to know the signs and symptoms to look
for, so that there are no delays in providing the necessary
treatment.”  Redness and swelling occur at the point of injection among
drug users who have anthrax, while fever and flu-like symptoms
develop if the drug is smoked, the HPA said.  An outbreak of anthrax among heroin users in  Scotland  was
reported in 2009 and 2010, infecting 47 people, 14 of whom died.
Before 2009, only one case of drug-related anthrax was found --
in  Norway  in 2000, the London-based agency said.  Anthrax bacteria, known as Bacillus anthracis, occurs most
commonly in cattle, sheep and goats and can produce poisons
lethal to humans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net ;
Mehreen Khan in London at 
 mkhan108@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  