-- Tappan Zee Bids Won’t Top $5.2 Billion Estimate: Adviser
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-08-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/tappan-zee-bids-won-t-top-5-2-billion-estimate-adviser.html
Bids to build a new Tappan Zee
Bridge over the Hudson River don’t top the estimated $5.2
billion cost, according to Brian Conybeare, a special adviser to
New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo .  That assessment was based on information from the bidders,
Conybeare said yesterday at a community meeting at Iona College
in  New Rochelle . Officials haven’t examined the prices in the
offers from teams seeking the work and led by  Fluor Corp. (FLR) ,
Bechtel Group Inc. and  Skanska AB (SKAB) , Conybeare said.  “They have assured us that they are at or below the $5.2
billion Federal Highway Administration estimate,” he said. “We
won’t know the actual bid amounts for another two weeks.”  Plans for covering the cost have been based on that
estimate. Cuomo, a Democrat who made replacing the toll bridge a
priority, has said the price may rise, depending on the bids.
The winner will be picked based on engineering, design,
materials, and proposed timing as well as price, he said.  About 138,000 vehicles a day cross between Rockland and
Westchester counties over the 3.1 mile (5-kilometer) span about
20 miles north of  Manhattan . That’s 40 percent more than it was
built to handle.  A cost that’s lower than the federal estimate would be good
news for Cuomo, 54, who has faced political pressure since his
administration released projections earlier this month that
tolls may almost triple to $14 for cash customers, from the
current $5, to help pay for the bridge. Commuters with a
discount plan would pay $8.40, rather than $3 now.  Alternatives Sought  Last week, Cuomo sent a letter to the New York Thruway
Authority, which owns the bridge, asking it to form a  task force 
to examine ways to lower the tolls before they would take effect
when the new span opens, expected in 2017.  “We must find alternatives, revenue-generators and cost
reductions that reduce the potential toll increases,” Cuomo
said in the letter.  The state is seeking a $2 billion federal Transportation
Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act loan to help cover the
cost. The majority of the bridge would be financed through toll-
backed bonds sold by the Thruway Authority, Cuomo has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany,  New York , at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  