-- Apple Witness Claims Samsung Abused Its ‘Monopoly’ Over Patents
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-08-18T05:27:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/apple-witness-says-samsung-didn-t-disclose-patents-to-regulator.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  used
“monopoly power” to make exorbitant licensing demands of  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  over two patents the South Korean company accuses the
iPhone maker of infringing, a witness told a jury.  Janusz Ordover, a  New York  University economics professor,
said Samsung “distorted” the process through which a standard-
setting body in  Europe  set industry requirements based on its
wireless-technology patents. Ordover testified yesterday at the
end of a three-week long intellectual-property trial in  San
Jose , California.  Ordover, hired by Apple as an expert witness, said Samsung
“acted in a way that evidences it has gained monopoly power by
making licensing demands to Apple that are inconsistent” with
reduced licensing rates required of patents used by the European
Telecommunications Standards Institute to set technological
requirements.  Samsung has declared the patents “essential” and is
seeking as much as $399 million in royalties from Apple for
infringing them, according to court testimony. Apple has argued
in court filings that Samsung can’t assert its claims on the two
patents because it didn’t properly disclose them to the
institute.  Testimony concluded yesterday at the trial. U.S. District
Judge Lucy Koh limited each side to 25 hours and Samsung told
the court that it declined to cross-examine Ordover due to the
time constraints. Koh said she aims to finish with jury
instruction arguments by the end of Aug. 20 and to have the
companies present closing arguments Aug. 21. Jury deliberations
may begin later that day.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , sued Samsung in
April 2011, accusing it of copying patented designs for mobile
devices, and Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung countersued.  Four Continents  The case is the first to go before a federal jury in a
battle being waged on four continents for dominance in a
smartphone market valued by Bloomberg Industries at $219.1
billion.  Ordover said his conclusions relied on testimony from
Michael Walker, former chairman of the European
Telecommunications Standards Institute, who was called by Apple
as a witness. Samsung filed a Korean application for one of the
two patents in April 2006, Walker said. It was required to
disclose that application to the standard-setting body by early
June 2005 and didn’t until May 16, 2006, Walker said.  “I concluded in both cases that they did not” make timely
disclosures about the intellectual property, Walker said of
Samsung.  Licensing Rate  Ordover said he was also drawing on testimony by former
 Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  executive Richard Donaldson, who said a
2.4 percent licensing rate Samsung demanded of Apple for the
patents didn’t comply with the “fair reasonable and non-
discriminatory” rates required by patents used by the
institute.  Under cross-examination by Samsung lawyer Charles Verhoeven, Walker agreed that he didn’t know if Samsung
intentionally missed its patent disclosure deadlines.  Samsung also called a damages expert, David Teece of
 University of California , Berkeley’s business school, to refute
Ordover’s claims.  Walker hasn’t done the “background work necessary” to
conclude Samsung possesses monopoly power with its patents at
issue, Teece said.  250 Days  Teece said he did a study of how long companies take to
disclose their patents after ETSI adopts standards that may be
covered by the intellectual property. He said Apple has taken as
long as 250 days and other companies such as units of
 Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson (ERICB)  and Google Inc.’s Motorola
Mobility Holdings unit may take weeks, months and sometimes
years to make their disclosures.  The 2.4 percent licensing rate Samsung offered Apple for
the patents was “in the range of rates that I’ve observed from
other companies,” Teece said.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  