-- Apple Tops $600 Billion Market Value After Climb to High
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-08-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/apple-rises-to-intraday-record-on-ipad-mini-research-note.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s shares rose to a record
and the company’s market value surpassed $600 billion on
speculation that production has started on a smaller version of
the iPad tablet as well as a new television product.  The shares climbed 1.9 percent to $648.11 at the close in
 New York  yesterday, for a market capitalization of $602.3
billion. The stock of the world’s most valuable company has
gained 60 percent this year.  With tablet sales predicted by research firm  Yankee Group 
to overtake those of personal computers by 2015, Apple is
introducing a smaller iPad model to fend off challengers to its
top-selling device. That may go on sale by October and a new
television could reach stores by 2013, according a research
report from Peter Misek, an analyst at Jefferies & Co.  “We believe the iTV is in full production,” Misek said in
the report yesterday. He recommends buying the shares and raised
his price estimate to $900 from $800.  Misek points to activity at  Sharp Corp. (6753) , a maker of TV
screens, and  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) , the company that
assembles the iPad for Apple, and other specialty chemical and
TV component suppliers as the basis for his predictions. Hon
Hai’s revenue rose 5 percent in July from June, while sales are
typically unchanged at this time of year, he said.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  later this year will begin selling its
Surface tablet, while  Google Inc. (GOOG)  introduced its Nexus 7 device
in June.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle Fire tablet debuted last year.  IPad Mini  Apple plans to roll out a smaller, cheaper iPad by the end
of this year, people familiar with the plans said in July. Misek
said Apple would sell at least 8 million of the miniature iPad
in the three-month period ending in December, and generate about
$2.4 billion in revenue by pricing the device at $300.  The company’s shipments of iPads surged 44 percent to 17
million in the second quarter, giving the company its biggest
share of the market in more than a year as devices from
competitors lost ground, a report this month from IHS said.  For its television product, Apple is in talks with at least
one of the largest U.S. cable companies about teaming up on a
product to carry live television and other content, a person
with knowledge of the plans said this week.  An Apple TV could sell about 2 million units in the quarter
ending in December, with an average price of about $1,250, Misek
projects.  Apple is also preparing for next month’s debut of a new
iPhone. The smartphone is Apple’s top source of revenue and
Misek and other analysts are predicting it will be the company’s
biggest product debut ever.  -- Editors: Reed Stevenson, Stephen West  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  