-- Apple Loses Bid to Bar Evidence in Samsung Patent Trial
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-08-17T17:10:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/apple-loses-bid-to-bar-evidence-in-samsung-patent-trial.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  lost its bid to exclude
evidence presented by  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  at the companies’
patent trial in California about a tablet computer developed
more than a decade before Apple’s iPad was released in 2010.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in San Jose today rejected
Apple’s argument that the information about a prototype of a
tablet developed in 1994 shouldn’t be presented to the jury.  “That issue should go to the jury,” Koh said, adding that
she was surprised Apple waited so long to make such a request.  “It’s strange to me that we’re just hearing this now,”
she said. “If you thought the law was so clear cut, I would’ve
appreciated that this was brought up sooner.”  Apple, maker of the iPhone and iPad, based its request on
an appeals court ruling in May permitting it to pursue efforts
to halt sales of Samsung’s Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer in
the U.S. while the  San Jose  patent-infringement case is pending.  The judge said in December that Samsung had raised a
substantial question of invalidity of Apple’s tablet-design
patent. The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  said there were substantial differences between the
Apple design and earlier readers, and the only comparison was
that they were rectangular tablets with four evenly rounded
corners and a flat back.  Koh in June imposed a sales ban on Samsung’s tablet based
on the appeals court ruling.  Samsung Argument  Samsung has argued the design was an obvious variation of
tablets existing as early as 1994, including one made by
Hewlett-Packard Co.  The Korean company supported that argument at the trial
with videotaped testimony by  Roger Fidler , who heads the digital
publishing program at the  University of Missouri . Fidler said he
started working on a tablet design in 1981. Apple sought to
exclude the testimony based on the appeals court ruling.  In a written declaration, Fidler said “Apple personnel
were exposed to my tablet ideas and prototypes” in the mid-
1990s when the company collaborated with Knight-Ridder Inc.’s
information design laboratory in  Colorado .  “My feeling was that it should be something that’s
lightweight, portable, with a flat screen that had an ability to
use a touch screen,” Fidler testified, referring to the first
mock-up of his tablet from the early 1980s.  Apple sued Samsung in April 2011, accusing it of copying
patented designs for mobile devices, and Suwon, South Korea-
based Samsung countersued.  The case is the first to go before a federal jury in a
battle being waged on four continents for dominance in a
smartphone market valued by Bloomberg Industries at
$219.1 billion.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco 
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
 Susan Decker  in Washington
at   sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 