-- Arctic Sea Ice Heads for Record Low as Melt
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-08-17T12:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/arctic-sea-ice-heads-for-record-low-as-melt-exceeds-forecasts.html
The  Arctic Ocean ’s ice cover is
shrinking at a record pace this year after higher-than-average
temperatures hastened the annual break-up of the sea ice.  The area of ocean covered by ice shrank to 4.93 million
square kilometers (1.9 million square miles) on average for the
five days through Aug. 15, according to the latest  data  from the
U.S. National Snow and Ice  Data Center  in Boulder,  Colorado .
With as many as five weeks of the annual melt season left, it’s
already the fourth-lowest annual minimum ever measured.  “Unless the melting really, really slows down, there’s a
very real chance of a record,” Walt Meier, a research scientist
at the NSIDC, said in a telephone interview. “In the last week
or so it’s dropped precipitously. There’s definitely a chance
it’ll dip below 4 million square kilometers.”  The shrinkage is the most visible sign of global warming
according to Meier, and raises the prospect that the Arctic
Ocean may become largely ice free in the summer. That opens up
new shipping routes and is sparking a race for resources that’s
led to  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  exploring
waters off  Greenland  for oil and gas.  New Frontline  “There’s a whole new frontline from a strategic
standpoint,” said Cleo Paskal, a geopolitical analyst at
 Chatham House , a policy adviser in  London . “Countries that have
been kept apart by a wall of ice are now facing each other for
the first time and countries like  China  are slipping up through
the middle.”  China has an icebreaker, Arctic research stations, and is
positioning to develop infrastructure in Greenland and tap the
island’s mineral wealth, Paskal said in a phone interview.  Cairn drilled eight wells in two years through the end of
2011 in an unsuccessful attempt to find recoverable oil and gas
reserves off Greenland. Shell,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , Chevron Corp.
and  Statoil ASA (STL)  also hold licenses to drill off the Greenland
coast.  The sea ice melts every summer before freezing again in
September. The NSIDC uses a five-day average ice extent to iron
out day-to-day anomalies. When more dark ocean is exposed, it
absorbs more of the sun’s heat unlike the reflective ice,
increasing the warming effect in a so-called feedback loop.  The increasing melt may be a harbinger of greater changes
such as the release of methane compounds from frozen soils that
could exacerbate warming, and a thaw of the Greenland ice sheet,
which would contribute to rising sea levels, NASA’s top climate
scientist,  James Hansen , said in an e-mail interview.  Tipping Points  “Our greatest concern is that loss of Arctic sea ice
creates a grave threat of passing two other tipping points --
the potential instability of the Greenland ice sheet and methane
hydrates,” Hansen said. “These latter two tipping points would
have consequences that are practically irreversible on time
scales of relevance to humanity.”  The  United Nations  estimates the Greenland ice sheet
contains enough water to raise global sea levels by about seven
meters (23 feet), though melting would take thousands of years.  Measurements from three satellites showed surface melt
across 97 percent of Greenland’s ice sheet on July 12, the
 largest  area in more than 30 years of observations, according to
 NASA . Like the sea ice, Greenland’s ice cap has an annual cycle
of surface thawing and then re-freezing. Also last month,
Greenland’s Petermann Glacier  shed an iceberg  about twice the
size of  Manhattan .  Arctic Temperatures  The lowest sea ice extent in a satellite record that goes
back to 1979 was 4.17 million square kilometers, registered in
September 2007. That compares with an average annual minimum
area of 6.29 million square kilometers from 1979 to 2010. This
year’s melt has been fueled by Arctic temperatures 2 degrees
Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) to 3 degrees Celsius warmer
than in a typical year from June through mid-August, said Meier.  While the area of ocean covered by the sea ice is easier to
gauge, researchers also take an interest in the thickness of the
ice. Older ice that hasn’t melted from one year to the next
tends to be more than three meters thick, while single-year ice
is thinner and easier to melt.  “Now that we’re getting into the guts of how quickly the
sea ice will go, it’s important to know the thickness,” said
Pen Hadow, who in 2003 became the first person to trek solo and
unassisted to the  North Pole . “It’s become much more of a
volume issue: area times thickness.”  Ice Thickness  Hadow in February plans to begin a 120-day traverse of the
Arctic Ocean from  Russia  to  Canada  during which he’ll measure
the thickness of the ice and make observations about ice ridges
that form where ice floes crash together. The data he gathers
will be used by scientists at the Centre for Polar Observation
and Modelling in London who are also analyzing ice thickness
data from the  European Space Agency ’s CryoSat-2 satellite.  “In some areas of the Arctic sea-ice, up to 40 percent of
the volume is held in narrow vertical ridges where ice floes
have crashed together,” Hadow said in a telephone interview.
“Knowing how many ridges there are and knowing their height is
increasingly interesting as we ever refine our models.”  Those models need updating. According to Meier, the
computer models used in 2007 by the United Nations
Intergovernmental Panel on  Climate Change  indicated the
possibility of ice-free summers in the Arctic Ocean by 2100.
Now, that may occur as early as 2030, a date earlier than
predicted even by newer computer models, he said.  “It’s the most drastic change in the earth’s surface due
to climate change,” said Meier. “It used to get to around 7
million square kilometers into the early 1990s. Now we’ve had
just one year above 5 million in the last six years. That’s 30
percent below where we used to be.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  