-- Argentine Capital Flight Rose After Dollar Purchases Limited
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-08-17T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/argentine-capital-flight-rose-after-dollar-purchases-limited.html
Argentine capital flight accelerated
in the second quarter after President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  tightened foreign exchange controls and forced
companies to repatriate export revenue.  Investors withdrew $1.96 billion from  South America ’s
second-biggest economy from April through June, up from $1.6
billion in the previous three-month period, the central bank
said in an e-mail statement last night. In 2011, Argentines sent
$21.5 billion out of the country, almost double the previous
year’s $11.4 billion, as inflation surpassed 20 percent.
Outflows slowed from $6.1 billion in the second quarter of 2011.  Blocked from international credit markets since its $95
billion default in late 2001,  Argentina  is seeking to staunch
outflows and shore up central bank reserves, which President
Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner uses to fund spending and pay
foreign debt. Currency controls, inflation and a slowing economy
have pushed up the country’s borrowing costs to 1010 basis
points over U.S. Treasuries, the most among all major  emerging
markets , according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.s EMBIG index.  “The more measures you take to control the outflows, the
more incentive people have to try to get dollars out,” said
Alberto Bernal, the head of fixed-income research at Bulltick
Capital Markets in Miami. “In the short term, these measures
help contain outflows, but it costs them in the long-term in
stronger expectations for a  currency depreciation .”  ‘Seek to Protect’  Since her re-election in October, Fernandez, 59, has
ordered energy and mining companies to repatriate export
revenue, told insurance companies to bring investments back into
the country and prohibited most purchases of foreign currencies.  After making a $2.2 billion debt payment this month,
central bank  reserves  fell to $45.1 billion yesterday from as
high as $47.6 billion on May 17.  The government needs to accumulate reserves to be able to
tap about $5.7 billion for debt payments this year. Fernandez
used $6.6 billion of reserves in 2010 and $7.5 billion in 2011
to make debt payments.  Annual  inflation  that economists estimate at 24 percent,
the highest in the region, and uncertainty over Fernandez’s
economic policies fueled the surge in capital flight last year,
Bernal said.  Banned from buying greenbacks and fearing a repetition of
the forced conversion of dollar savings into pesos in 2002,
Argentines withdrew money from dollar-denominated  bank deposits ,
which fell to $9.5 billion on Aug. 3 from $9.95 billion a month
earlier, according to central bank data.  “People see the dollar is lagging and foresee a
depreciation of the peso, so they seek to protect the value of
their savings,” said Mario Sotuyo, an economist at Buenos
Aires-based research company Economia & Regiones. “Now they are
forbidden from doing that.”  Balancing Act  The official rate for the peso had weakened 6.7 percent
this year to 4.6095 per dollar. In an unregulated market, in
which investors buy internationally traded securities locally
for pesos and sell them abroad for dollars, the peso has
weakened 36.4 percent to 6.4928 per dollar yesterday.  Fernandez also tightened controls on imports, ordering
companies to seek authorization from the tax agency before
bringing goods into the country.  Since the import restrictions took effect in February,
purchases of foreign goods have fallen each month, dropping 12
percent in June from a year earlier to $6.1 billion.  Imported goods are more competitive in the domestic market
because the weakening of the peso hasn’t made up for the effect
of inflation on companies’ costs, Sotuyo said.  “The government protects its dollars because one of its
priorities is to accumulate reserves to be able to make debt
payments,” Sotuyo said. “At the same time, tightening imports
the government protects some industries, which are facing higher
local costs, from competing with cheaper goods that come from
abroad.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  