-- Harvey, Mets Top NL Central-Leading Cincinnati Reds 8-4
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-08-17T05:19:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/harvey-new-york-mets-top-nl-central-leading-cincinnati-10-4.html
Rookie right-hander Matt Harvey took
a perfect game into the fifth inning and drove in two runs to
lead the  New York Mets  to an 8-4 victory over the National
League Central-leading Cincinnati Reds in a Major League
Baseball contest.  Harvey (2-3), who threw 63 strikes in 89 pitches last
night, allowed one run on four hits and struck out eight in 7
2/3 innings. His 34 strikeouts over five major league games
since his debut July 26 rank second in Mets’ history behind
 Dwight Gooden ’s 36. Jon Rauch got his third save, striking out
one in 1/3 inning.  “I knew it was going to be a tough lineup,” Harvey told
reporters. “I just wanted to go out and not so much worry about
who I was facing, as much as where the call was, where the pitch
was supposed to go and try and execute as best I could.”  Harvey, 23, followed Ike Davis’s solo home run with a two-
run double in the fourth inning to give the Mets a 3-0 lead.
 Jason Bay  kicked off a three-run sixth inning with a home run at
Great American Ball Park in Cincinnati.  Davis hit a run-scoring double and then scored on an error
by shortstop Zack Cozart as the Mets took an 8-1 advantage in
the top of the ninth.  Jay Bruce hit a run-scoring double for the Reds in the
seventh, while Ryan Ludwick blasted a home run in the ninth
followed by Miguel Cairo’s run-scoring single and Cozart’s
double that sent home Todd Frazier.  Homer Bailey (10-8) gave up six runs on eight hits and
struck out six in 5 2/3 innings for the Reds (71-47).  “Physically I feel great,” Bailey told reporters. “I
have no excuses. I’m just not making pitches as consistently as
I need to.”  The Mets (56-62) are in third place, 17 games behind the
 Washington Nationals  in the five-team NL East.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  