-- Asia Dollar Bond Sales at Six-Week Low on Investor Summer Pause
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2012-08-17T04:58:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/asia-dollar-bond-sales-at-six-week-low-on-investor-summer-pause.html
Borrowers in the Asia-Pacific region
sold the least dollar-denominated debt in six weeks, with Indian
banks the only issuers as the summer holiday period continued.
Bond risk dropped.  Sales fell 16 percent this week to $1.6 billion from the
prior period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
the lowest since the week beginning July 2. ICICI Bank Ltd.,
 Union Bank of India  and Indian Overseas Bank were the only
companies to foray into the market since Aug. 12, the data show.  Dollar bond sales in August total $3.5 billion, the slowest
start to a month this year, the data show. August was also the
least busy month for the region in 2011. Activity is
traditionally reduced over the European summer and this year,
investors also took a break for the London  Olympic Games ,
according to Barclays Plc.  “August tends to be a slower month due to seasonal
factors,” said Avanti Save, a Singapore-based credit strategist
at Barclays. “The pipeline of issuers is building fast. We
expect more supply from Indian banks, and companies in  China  and
 Hong Kong  are also likely to be potential candidates.”  Bond sales slowed even as the cost of insuring Asia-Pacific
corporate and sovereign bonds from non-payment dropped,
according to traders of credit-default swaps.  Stocks Rise  The Markit iTraxx  Asia   index  of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan fell 3 basis points to 148 basis points
as of 8:28 a.m. in  Singapore , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
prices show. The index  touched  147 basis points on Aug. 9, its
lowest since March 19, according to data provider CMA.  The share of American households viewing the economy as
heading in the wrong direction rose to 45 percent in August, the
highest since November, as fuel costs and unemployment remained
elevated, Bloomberg-compiled data released yesterday show.
Stocks in Asia rose today as policy makers in Europe neared a
consensus on helping indebted nations.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said Europe’s biggest
economy is “completely in line” with the  European Central
Bank ’s approach to defending the euro, telling reporters in
Ottawa yesterday policy makers “feel committed to do everything
we can to maintain the common currency.”  The Markit iTraxx Australia  index  declined 2 basis points
to 155 as of 11:07 a.m. in Sydney, Westpac Banking Corp. prices
show. The gauge is set to match the lowest close since May 2,
according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  Bond Risk  The Markit iTraxx Japan  index  fell 1 basis point to 185
basis points as of 9:51 a.m. in Tokyo, Citigroup Inc. prices
show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  