-- Asia Stocks Rise for a Third Week on Wen Comments, U.S. Economy
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-08-17T23:33:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/asia-stocks-rise-for-a-third-week-on-wen-comments-u-s-economy.html
Asian  stocks  rose this week, with
the benchmark index posting its longest weekly winning streak
since March, after China’s Premier Wen Jiabao said there’s more
room to adjust monetary policy and U.S. economic reports
signaled strength in the world’s largest economy.  Fanuc Corp. (6954) , a maker of industrial robots used in Chinese
factories, gained 5.8 percent this week in Tokyo. Honda Motor
Co., which depends on North America for more than 40 percent of
its sales, climbed 5.8 percent. Nan Ya Printed Circuit Board
Corp., a Taiwanese maker of computer hardware, surged 12 percent
after a report the industry will grow.  China Mobile (941)  Ltd., the
world’s biggest phone company by subscribers, sank 7.8 percent
in Hong Kong as profit growth slowed.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  rose for a third-straight week,
gaining 0.2 percent to 120.74 in its longest winning streak
since the five days ended March 2. Through yesterday, the Asia-
Pacific benchmark has retreated more than 6 percent from a Feb.
29 high amid concern China’s economy is slowing and Europe’s
debt crisis is deepening.  “The global central banks’ attitude to prevent economies
from falling into a serious slowdown is helping investor
sentiment,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , chief  fund manager  at Shinkin
Asset Management Co. in Tokyo, which oversees about $6.7 billion.
“Data that would signal a rebound in the  U.S. economy  and
steady personal spending is positive.”  Stocks on the index, which includes companies from emerging
countries, were valued at about 12.6 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with about 13.7 times for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and 11.7 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BOJ Minutes  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  gained 3.1 percent this
week, even after the nation’s economic growth slowed in the
three months through June and missing the analyst estimates.
Shares moved higher after Bank of Japan’s last meeting showed
policy makers weren’t ruling out any options to boost growth.  Hong Kong ’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  slid 0.1 percent, while China’s
Shanghai Composite Index fell 2.5 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex Index
gained 0.4 percent. South Korea’s Kospi Index was little changed
in a week that was shortened by a holiday.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 2.2 percent even after
a survey showed  consumer confidence  fell the most in five months
amid the highest  interest rates  among major developed nations.  Singapore’s  Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  added 0.3 percent after its
exports rose more than economists estimated in July as companies
shipped more electronics and petrochemicals and sold more goods
to China.  Economic Targets  China’s state radio reported Wen as saying there’s growing
room for monetary policy operation. “We have the conditions and
capabilities, and will be sure to fulfill this year’s economic
and social development targets,” Wen said during a two-day
inspection tour to the eastern province of Zhejiang, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported on Aug. 15.  The comments may bolster speculation China will cut banks’
reserve requirements or benchmark interest rates again after
inflation slowed to a 30-month low in July, export growth
collapsed and new  yuan  loans trailed estimates. A report on Aug.
16 showed foreign direct investment in China fell to the lowest
level in two years in July.  “The premier seldom makes such direct remarks, but he
might want to emphasize that government wants to support the
economy by monetary policies,” said  Kiyoshi Ishigane , a Tokyo-
based strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., which
oversees about $70 billion. “Wen’s remarks are pushing it, and
that’s a positive catalyst for the markets.”  Fanuc, Komatsu  Fanuc gained 5.8 percent to 13,410 yen in Tokyo.  Komatsu
Ltd. (6301) , a Japanese construction-equipment maker that gets about 10
percent of its revenue from China, advanced 6.8 percent to 1,791
yen. China Resources Power Holdings Co., the third-biggest
listed mainland electricity producer, climbed 3 percent to
HK$16.38 in Hong Kong.  In the U.S., retail sales climbed more than forecast in
July as  consumer spending  rebounded at department stores, auto
dealers and electronics outlets. A separate report showed
American builders took out more residential construction  permits 
in July than at any time in the past four years, a sign the
market will continue to improve.  Shares also rose after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
reiterated her commitment to working with the  European Central
Bank . The ECB’s insistence on conditionality in return for help
to lower borrowing costs in indebted countries matches her
country’s priorities to end the crisis in the euro region, she
said in Ottawa on Aug. 16.  ‘Risk-On’  “Investor sentiment is moving to risk-on from risk-off
globally,” said Ichiro Takamatsu, a fund manager at Tokyo-based
Bayview Asset Management Co., which manages about $1.9 billion.
“The U.S. economy is back on a recovery track. Positive remarks
from the German Chancellor are a benefit for the markets.”  Honda gained 5.8 percent to 2,642 yen in Tokyo. Techtronic
Industries Co., the maker of Ryobi power tools that gets 72
percent of revenue from the U.S., climbed 4.7 percent to
HK$11.20 in Hong Kong.  Nan Ya Printed Circuit Board jumped 12 percent to NT$54.30
in Taipei after MoneyDJ said Taiwan’s third-quarter printed
circuit board value is projected to rise 8.4 percent from the
previous quarter, citing research by state-supported Industrial
Technology Research Institute.  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , Australia’s largest mill, soared 54
percent to 40 Australian cents in Sydney after agreeing to sell
some of its operations to Nippon Steel Corp. The Japanese
company rose 6.6 percent to 177 yen this week.  China Mobile  Among stocks that fell, China Mobile slumped 7.8 percent to
HK$83.65 in Hong Kong. Profit in the three months ended in June
fell to 34.40 billion yuan ($5.4 billion) from 34.42 billion
yuan a year earlier, according to figures derived by Bloomberg
News from half-year numbers reported Aug. 16. That missed the
projection of 35.6 billion yuan, the median of nine analysts’
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Of the 440  companies  in the Asia-Pacific index that have
reported quarterly earnings since May 16, and for which
Bloomberg has estimates, about 55 percent have failed to meet
projections.  “Markets are moving to a more risk-on phase,” said  Tim Schroeders , a portfolio manager who helps oversee $1 billion in
equities at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “The U.S.
recovery seems more robust than people had thought previously.
Investors in Asia are still waiting for earnings to justify
valuations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  