-- Asia Pacific Breweries Halted Amid Thai, Heineken Bids
-- B y   A n j a l i   C o r d e i r o
-- 2012-08-17T01:16:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/asia-pacific-breweries-halted-amid-thai-heineken-bids.html
Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd. (APB)  was
halted from trading in Singapore trading today as a Thai
billionaire and  Heineken NV (HEIA)  wrestle for control of the Tiger
beer maker.  Fraser & Neave Ltd., which owns 40 percent of the brewer,
was also halted. The stocks were suspended from trading almost
two weeks after Kindest Place Groups, owned by the son-in-law of
Thai billionaire  Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi , offered to buy 7.3
percent of APB from Singapore-based F&N for S$55 ($44.10) a
share. That topped an earlier offer from Heineken NV, the
world’s third-biggest brewer, to take full control of APB at
S$50 a share.  Heineken, which has been involved with APB since 1931,
began taking steps to protect its position in July after
Charoen’s  Thai Beverage Pcl (THBEV)  offered to buy a 22 percent stake in
Fraser & Neave. The Dutch brewer’s original offer of S$50 a
share was recommended by F&N’s board.  The deadline for F&N to make a decision on Kindest Place’s
offer was originally Aug. 16 and was extended today to Aug. 24.  Heineken, which accounts for about 8.8 percent of the
global beer market, has the smallest emerging-markets presence
of the world’s big three brewers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. About 37 percent of operating income came from
western Europe last year, the data show.  Besides the Singaporean Tiger brand, APB has rights to brew
Bintang beer in Indonesia, Anchor in China, Southeast Asia and
Sri Lanka, and Heineken from China to  New Zealand .  Thai Beverage, which completed its purchase of the 22
percent stake this week, climbed 1.5 percent to 34 Singapore
cents as of 9:14 a.m. in the city-state, where its shares are
traded, set for a two-week high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anjali Cordeiro in  Hong Kong  at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  