-- Banks Underestimating Currency Market Risks, Basel Group Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-08-17T15:48:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/banks-underestimating-currency-market-risks-basel-group-says.html
Banks are underestimating the risk
that their trading partners on the foreign exchange market may
fail to honor commitments, global regulators said.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  issued draft
guidance to lenders to bolster safeguards against the
possibility that trades may break down before they are settled.  Banks should set binding limits on the amount of settlement
risk they take onto their books, and restrict the amount of
business they do with any single counterparty.  “Many banks underestimate their principal risk and other
associated risks by not taking into full account the duration of
exposure between trade execution and final settlement,” the
Basel Committee said in a statement on its website. “While such
risks may have a relatively low impact during normal market
conditions, they may create disproportionately larger concerns
during times of market stress.”  Transactions worth $4 trillion a day take place on global
 currency markets , according to figures from the  Bank of
International Settlements  published in December 2010. The market
grew by 20 percent from 2007 to 2010, the BIS said.  The draft rules tackle so-called Herstatt risk, namely the
possibility that a bank can be left facing large losses if it
moves first to honor its side of a currency transaction, while
its trading partner goes bust before fulfilling its obligations.
The global financial system was faced with such difficulties
when Bankhaus Herstatt failed in 1974, an event that influenced
regulators to set up the Basel Committee.  While banks and other institutions active in the currency
markets have taken steps to make trading more robust, rapid
growth means that “substantial” settlement risks remain, the
group said.  The Basel regulators’ proposals also include banks seeking
wherever possible to settle both sides of a trade
simultaneously, and that they should hold “sufficient capital”
against settlement risk.  The plans update guidance adopted by the Basel group in
2000. The committee will seek views on the proposals until Oct.
12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  