-- Bank Client-Fund Data May Be Opened to Regulators
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-08-17T00:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/bank-client-fund-data-may-be-opened-to-regulators.html
U.S. futures brokerages and their
banks would make client-fund data accessible to regulators in
the wake of the collapse of Peregrine Financial Group Inc.,
under a proposal approved by the  National Futures Association .  Regulators would have view-only  Internet access  to
information held at a bank or trust, Chicago-based NFA said
today after endorsing the plan. The new requirements are subject
to approval by the  Commodity Futures Trading Commission , the
main U.S. regulator of futures and swaps. Regulators currently
don’t have direct access to client accounts.  Industry self-regulators would be able to check segregated
customer-fund accounts “without asking the firm or the bank,
and compare those balances to the firm’s daily segregation
report,” NFA President Dan Roth said in a statement.  The NFA, a self-regulatory group, is seeking to bolster
industry oversight after Peregrine, a commodity firm, collapsed
in July with at least $200 million in client funds missing.  MF
Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  filed the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy on
Oct. 31 and is being liquidated to pay customers facing a $1.6
billion shortfall.  Peregrine Founder and Chief Executive Officer Russell R. Wasendorf Sr. was indicted Aug. 13 by a federal grand jury on 31
counts of making false statements to regulators. He’s been in
custody since July 13 following a suicide attempt and a signed
confession that he had defrauded customers for 20 years.  Wasendorf forged the company’s statements from Firstar
Bank,  US Bank (BAC)  and Harris Bank, he said in the signed statement.
He also made forgeries of official letters and correspondence
from the banks, along with trade confirmation statements.  “The simple fact is that Wasendorf’s forgeries fooled us,
and fooled us for longer than any of us would like,” Roth said
in testimony at a U.S. House Agriculture Committee hearing on
July 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Mott at   gmott1@bloomberg.net  