-- Former Oriole Eddie Murray Settles Inside Trading Case
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   G r e g o r y   M o t t
-- 2012-08-18T04:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/baseball-hall-of-famer-murray-settles-sec-insider-trading-case.html
Baseball Hall of Famer Eddie Murray
agreed to pay $358,151 to resolve U.S. claims that he profited
from an insider-trading tip provided by former Baltimore Orioles
teammate Doug DeCinces.  Murray made $235,314 on the $1.36 billion acquisition of
Advanced Medical Optics Inc. by  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  Inc. in 2009
when given advance information about the deal, alongside others
who have settled with the Securities and Exchange Commission or
face claims, the agency said in a statement yesterday. DeCinces
and three others agreed to pay $3.3 million last year to settle
SEC claims they reaped a total of $1.7 million, the agency said.  DeCinces’ neighbor, James Mazzo, then-chairman and chief
executive officer of  Santa Ana , California-based Advanced
Medical Optics, told DeCinces that Abbott was making a tender
offer for his firm, the SEC alleged.  Mazzo, 55, and another friend of DeCinces, David L. Parker,
60, who lives in Provo,  Utah , and is a managing partner at an
 Irvine , California-based private-equity firm, face insider
trading claims filed by the SEC yesterday in federal court in
 California .  “Mazzo had repeated personal contacts and communications
with DeCinces, who promptly traded and tipped Murray, Parker and
others that a deal involving Mazzo’s company was imminent,”
Daniel M. Hawke, chief of the SEC Enforcement Division’s Market
Abuse Unit, said in the agency’s statement. “CEOs and other
employees of public companies must resist the lure of sharing
confidential information with their friends and always put the
interests of their shareholders and company first.”  Murray, one of baseball’s greatest hitters, logged the most
career RBIs among switch hitters during his 20-year career,
according to the National Baseball Hall of Fame website. He was
inducted into the Hall of Fame in 2003 as only the third player
to collect both 3,000 hits and 500 home runs.  The former first baseman, who also earned the Gold Glove
Award three years running, maintained a close friendship with
DeCinces, 61, after they stopped playing together in 1981, the
SEC said.  “Eddie Murray is admitting no wrongdoing at all in this
matter,” Michael Proctor, Murray’s lawyer in  Los Angeles , said
in an e-mail. “What I can say is that Mr. Murray, a decent man
of principle and accomplishment, has settled this to put the
matter to an end and get on with his life.”  Mazzo and DeCinces were friends in Laguna Beach,
California, socializing at the same Orange County country club
and sharing overseas vacations, the SEC said. DeCinces bought
90,700 shares of Mazzo’s company in the days leading up to its
purchase, according to the SEC complaint, including in accounts
set up for his grandchildren. He also called Murray repeatedly
during that period, including once from a golf course.  “Mr. Mazzo flatly and unequivocally denies the SEC’s
allegations,” said Richard Marmaro, his Los Angeles lawyer, in
an e-mailed statement. Marmaro said it was “preposterous” to
think Mazzo would risk his reputation “for no apparent
reason.” He said his client “never disclosed material, non-
public information to anyone -- not to give a trading advantage
to a friend, not for any reason.”  James Sanders , a Los Angeles lawyer for Parker, declined to
comment on the accusations that Parker pocketed $347,920 from
the tips.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 