-- Batista Failing in $1 Billion Earnings Pledge
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-08-17T20:45:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/batista-failing-in-1-billion-earnings-pledge.html
Billionaire  Eike Batista ’s energy
and mining companies lost almost as much money in the second
quarter as in all of 2011, reducing the chances that Brazil’s
richest man will deliver the profits he promised for this year.  Oil company OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, iron-ore
miner MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA, shipbuilder  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) 
and two of his listed units posted a combined net loss of 926.5
million reais ($459 million) in the past quarter, compared with
941.8 million reais for 2011. The five companies, including
power utility MPX Energia SA and port developer  LLX Logistica
SA (LLXL3) , had a loss before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of 160 million reais in the period.  The results follow production setbacks at OGX and declining
iron-ore prices for MMX, jeopardizing Batista’s pledge in March
to generate Ebitda of $1 billion this year as part of “a major
turnaround.” Analysts expect his six Rio de Janeiro-based
companies, including  CCX (CCXC3)  Carvao da  Colombia  SA, which was listed
in May, to post a combined Ebitda loss of 111 million reais this
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s a show-me story requiring patience from investors
and the catalysts aren’t really there,” said Eric Conrads, who
helps manage $1 billion in stocks at ING Groep NV in  New York .
“They have to deliver at least in line with expectations.”  OGX touched a three-year low in June after cutting output
estimates at its first project by as much as 75 percent and has
declined 54 percent in  Sao Paulo  this year, dragging down shares
of Batista’s other commodity companies. MMX has dropped 18
percent,  MPX (MPXE3)  has fallen 8.2 percent and LLX has lost 5.3 percent
this year. OSX is up 2.6 percent.  OGX gained 0.3 percent to 6.25 reais today and MMX slid 1.6
percent to 5.49 reais in Sao Paulo. MPX declined 2 percent to
11.70 reais, while LLX fell 0.9 percent to 3.19 reais and OSX
added 1.3 percent to 11.80 reais.  Dwindling Wealth  The stock plunge slashed Batista’s net worth, which peaked
at $34.5 billion on March 27, to $20.6 billion yesterday,
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  daily ranking.
Batista, who aims to become the world’s richest person by 2015,
currently ranks 23rd on the list.  Batista plans to invest $50 billion in 10 years to expand
mining, energy and port projects in  Brazil , Colombia and  Chile .
He has raised about $6 billion in share sales in the past six
years and at least another $4.1 billion in bond sales in
international markets since 2011. This year, he sold stakes in
his EBX Group Co. holding company valued at $2.3 billion to
Mubadala Development Co. and General Electric Co. In May, he
said he will sell an additional stake worth $500 million by
September.  Enough Cash  OGX, which had $2.9 billion in cash at the end of June, has
enough money to cover investments and doesn’t plan to sell more
debt, Chief Financial Officer Roberto Monteiro said on an Aug.
15 conference call with analysts. It may raise as much as $700
million by selling oil production in advance to help finance
investments, he said.  Batista, in addition to setting the $1 billion target for
combined Ebitda this year, also said in a March 2 interview with
Bloomberg that the companies would double the measure of profit
in 2013 and triple it in 2014. Last year, he said EBX, which
controls his mining and energy empire, would generate $15
billion in Ebitda by 2015.  “We are running like, what’s the name of this Jamaican
guy? Usain Bolt,” Batista said, referring to the first sprinter
to win three gold medals in two straight Olympic Summer Games.  The companies controlled by Batista’s EBX are in an
investment phase, the holding company said in an e-mailed
response to questions, declining to comment further.  MMX, the biggest source of revenue among Batista’s
companies, this month posted a quarterly net loss that topped
analysts’ estimates after a weaker Brazilian real boosted debt
costs and iron-ore sales fell.  ‘Exposed to Debt’  The real plunged 9.1 percent in the second quarter, the
worst performance against the dollar among the world’s 16 most-
traded currencies. The decline boosted the cost of servicing
foreign debt and buying equipment, said Lucas Brendler, who
helps manage about 6 billion reais at Banco Geracao Futuro de
Investimento, including OGX shares.  “His companies are very, very exposed to debt indexed in
dollars,” Brendler said by telephone from  Porto Alegre , Brazil.
“When you have a depreciation, it’s very tough on the
results.”  CCX, a sixth listed company that Batista spun off from MPX
in May, also lost money in the second quarter as it prepares to
start production in 2014.  Batista’s companies are in an initial stage and the
earnings aren’t representative of their potential, Aloisio Lemos, an analyst at brokerage Agora Corretora, said by
telephone from Rio de Janeiro.  ‘Weak Results’  “Weak results are natural for companies in an initial
stage,” he said. “You can’t imagine doing projects of this
magnitude based in an economic scenario of one or two years. You
need a longer-term view.”  The poor operating results last quarter will likely make it
more difficult for Batista to keep luring investors, ING’s
Conrads said.  “You’re not in a world, at least on the earnings front,
where there is room for complacency,” Conrads said. “This
year, there were too many disappointments.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at   jattwood3@bloomberg.net  