-- BOE Was Naive on Libor and King Overstepped Power, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-08-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/boe-was-naive-on-libor-and-king-overstepped-power-lawmakers-say.html
The Bank of  England ’s handling of
questions about the rigging of the London interbank offered rate
was naive and lacked urgency, a U.K. panel of lawmakers said.  The House of Commons Treasury Committee also criticized
Governor  Mervyn King  for his part in the effective ousting of
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  last month,
saying it was “difficult to justify” and that greater checks
on his power were needed.  “The evidence suggests that the Bank of England was aware
of the incentive for banks to behave dishonestly, yet did not
think that dishonesty was occurring,” the committee said in
preliminary findings into the scandal, published in London
today. “With hindsight this suggests a naivety on the part of
the Bank of England. They were certainly relatively inactive.”  Barclays was fined a record 290 million pounds ($455
million) in June for attempting to manipulate Libor, prompting
the resignation of Diamond as well as the bank’s chairman and
chief operating officer. The central bank became embroiled after
Barclays released a memo of a 2008 phone call between Diamond
and Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker . The note suggested Tucker might
have hinted Barclays could lowball its Libor submissions.  ‘Smokescreen’  In its report, the  Treasury Committee  downplayed the role
of that conversation, saying it may have been used to distract
lawmakers from other issues. The finding may provide relief to
Tucker as he tries to stay in contention to for the central
bank’s top job next year. Still, the panel criticized the
central bank for not keeping its own record of the call.  “It remains possible that the entire Tucker-Diamond
dialogue may have been a smokescreen,” the lawmakers said.
“The committee remains skeptical about the importance of the
Tucker-Diamond phone call given the already established pattern
of dishonest Libor submissions.”  Lawmakers stopped short of accusing the central bank of
misconduct over its failures on Libor and said the shortcomings
of the Financial Services Authority as the prudential regulator
were “far more serious.” In a statement, the Bank of England
said it welcomes the conclusion that it “did not have any
regulatory responsibilities for Libor during the relevant
period.”  Britain’s Parliament is debating a financial-regulation
bill that will see the FSA absorbed into the Bank of England and
hand the central bank sweeping powers. At the same time,
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  must find a
replacement for King, who is due to retire in June. Both Tucker
and FSA Chairman  Adair Turner  have been linked to the job, as
has former top U.K. civil servant Gus O’Donnell.  Fait Accompli  On the resignation of Diamond, the Treasury Committee said
it was wrong of King and Turner to interfere in decisions about
management at banks. They both spoke to former Barclays Chairman
Marcus Agius after the bank was fined and expressed concerns
about management.  “Mr. Diamond’s resignation as Barclays CEO was a fait
accompli once both men intervened,” the committee said.
“Neither the FSA or the Bank of England should intervene to
remove senior bank executives to placate public, media and
parliamentary opinion.”  The central bank said in its response that King’s
discussion with Agius “in the circumstances was fully
justified.” Asked about the accusation that it was “inactive”
in relation to Libor, a  Bank of England  spokesman referred to
comments by King to the Treasury Committee on July 17 that it
did not have any evidence of wrongdoing.  The Treasury Committee said King’s discussion with Agius
“exposed implicit, and potentially arbitrary, power to force
out senior figures in the financial services industry.” It said
that once the Bank of England assumes powers over  financial
stability  and micro-prudential supervision, “the governor of
the Bank of England will stand all-powerful and able, by dint of
raising his eyebrows, effectively to dismiss senior banking
executives without discussing it with, or consulting, anyone.”  “This is unsatisfactory,” the lawmakers said. “A much
stronger governance framework is needed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  