-- Bond Losses Most Since ’10 as Apocalypse Averted: Credit Markets
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-08-17T16:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/bond-losses-most-since-10-as-apocalypse-averted-credit-markets.html
With two weeks left in August, the
global  bond market  has already delivered its biggest monthly
loss since 2010 as reports from unemployment to consumer
purchases suggest the worldwide economy is stronger than
investors anticipated.  From government to corporate to mortgage securities, fixed-
income assets have declined 0.64 percent this month, the worst
performance since a 1.09 percent loss in November 2010,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Broad
Market Index. At the same time, global  stocks  returned 2.9
percent, including reinvested dividends.  Bonds are losing value after retail  sales  and jobs gained
more than forecast, and  Germany  and  France  slowed less than
economists estimated. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. says the  Federal
Reserve  will now likely wait until late this year or early 2013
rather than September to add more stimulus by purchasing bonds
in a policy known as quantitative easing, or QE.  “It’s just much less likely that the Fed can justify doing
QE,” Hans Mikkelsen, a high-grade credit strategist at Bank of
America Corp. in  New York , said in a telephone interview. An
improving economy is giving investors less cause to seek a haven
in bonds, he said.  World’s End  While  junk bonds  have returned 0.84 percent this month,
government and investment-grade debt both have declined about
0.7 percent, separate Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes
show.  “The market was looking for the end of the world, looking
for the Fed to extend QE,” said  Thomas Roth , a senior Treasury
trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc. “The
better numbers, and no bad news out of  Europe , has put that
story on hold. People are being forced out of positions that
they may have put on at not-so-great levels,” he said.  The global economy is still facing headwinds. Morgan
Stanley lowered its 2012 global growth forecast this week as
scheduled spending cuts in the U.S., Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis and “accumulating evidence for the breakdown of the
traditional growth models” of  emerging markets  threaten to curb
expansion.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. fell for a second day,
with the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, decreasing 0.7 basis point to a mid-price of
100.4 basis points as of 12:04 p.m. in New York, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Swap Spreads  That’s the lowest level on an intra-day basis since May 8
for the index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, rose 1 basis point to 21.5 basis points as
of 12:04 p.m. in New York. The gauge widens when investors seek
the perceived safety of  government securities  and narrows when
they favor assets such as company debentures.  Bonds of Rio Tinto Group are the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today, with
173 trades of $1 million or more as of 12:06 p.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  German Bunds  The world’s third-largest mining company sold $3 billion of
bonds yesterday. Its $1 billion of 2.875 percent, 10-year debt
rose 0.3 cent from the issue price to 99 cents on the dollar to
yield 2.99 percent as of 11:51 a.m. in New York, Trade data
show.  Losses in bonds this month have trimmed gains this year to
3.51 percent, following 2011 returns of 5.9 percent, according
to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market index,
which tracks about 20,000 securities with a market value of
almost $44 trillion.  The declines are led by German bunds, which have lost 1.79
percent, U.K. government securities, off 1.55 percent, and
Treasuries, down 1.58 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show. In contrast, the MSCI All Country World Index
has  returned  2.9 percent and in the U.S., the S&P 500 stock
index  gained  2.4 percent.  Jobs Report  The selloff in bonds was triggered by a jobs report in the
U.S. on Aug. 3, showing employers added more workers than
forecast in July, easing concern the three-year expansion is
faltering.  Employment increased by 163,000 last month, helped by a
pickup at automakers and health-care providers, after a revised
64,000 June advance, Labor Department data showed. The median
estimate of 89 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
rise of 100,000.  The jobless rate, based on a separate survey of households,
climbed to 8.3 percent.  Retail sales  by auto dealers to department stores rose 0.8
more in July, the biggest since February and first gain in four
months, according to Commerce Department figures released on
Aug. 14.  “The likelihood of a significant September QE3 measure has
clearly dissipated,”  David Rolley , vice president of the global
fixed-income group at Loomis Sayles & Co., who co-manages $32
billion, said in a telephone interview.  QE3 Speculators  That’s helped to increase  interest rates  as investors
abandon bets that the Fed would act in the near term to boost an
economy that expanded at a 1.5 percent pace last quarter,
according to  Martin Fridson , global credit strategist at BNP
Paribas Investment Partners in New York.  “There was quite a bit of QE3 expectation built in,”
Fridson, based in New York, said in a telephone interview. “A
lot of speculators really were counting on that, and now they’ve
headed for the hills.”  The central bank didn’t announce further action to boost
the economy at its Aug. 1 meeting after saying growth will
“remain moderate” for an economy that’s had an unemployment
rate of more than 8 percent for 42 months.  “While QE3 at the Sept. 12-13 Federal Open Market
Committee meeting remains possible, our best estimate is that it
will take until late 2012, early 2013 before Fed officials
return to balance-sheet expansion,”  Jan Hatzius , chief
economist at Goldman Sachs in New York, wrote in an Aug. 14
report. “Our own view remains that there is a very solid case
for additional accommodation under the Fed’s dual mandate of
maximum employment and 2 percent inflation.”  ‘Twilight Zone’  The U.S. is confronting a contraction in spending of about
5 percent of gross domestic product if policy makers don’t
resolve scheduled tax increases and government spending cuts,
Morgan Stanley economists led by  Joachim Fels  wrote in an Aug.
15 report.  “The global economy has sunk deeper into the twilight zone
that divides sustainable recovery from renewed recession,” Fels
wrote in the report, which cut the New York-based bank’s 2012
global growth forecast to 3.2 percent from 3.7 percent.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s pledge in
July “to do whatever it takes to preserve the euro” has buoyed
investor confidence, said Mark Cernicky, a managing director of
fixed-income at  Des Moines , Iowa-based Principal Global
Investors, which oversees $72.2 billion.  “Even though we didn’t see anything definitive a couple
weeks ago, the mere fact that the ECB is willing to commit
additional resources has been a positive,” Cernicky said in a
telephone interview.  Germany, France  The German and French economies, the two-largest in the
euro region, slowed less than forecast in the second quarter.
Germany’s expansion was driven by consumption and trade with
exports rising more than imports. In France, company and
government spending helped the economy avoid contraction.  With yields still at almost record lows, a 12.5 basis-point
increase is prompting bigger losses with duration, a measure of
securities’ price sensitivity to yield changes, reaching a
record high this month. Bonds worldwide lost 0.5 percent in
December 2010 as yields rose 18 basis points.  Average modified duration on the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch Global Broad Market Index reached an unprecedented 5.9
years on Aug. 2. The measure was 5.5 a year ago.  “Investors are starting to have this bubble feeling,”
 Rajeev Sharma , a  money manager  who helps oversee $1.5 billion of
high-grade debt at First Investors Management Co. in New York,
said in a telephone interview. “It just takes a move, like
we’ve seen in August, to hurt some of these long-duration funds
out there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  