-- Cablevision Says Tribune Has ‘Anti-Consumer’ Demands
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-08-17T20:17:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/cablevision-says-tribune-has-anti-consumer-demands.html
Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , the New
York-area cable provider, blacked out WPIX and other Tribune
Co.-owned stations, accusing the bankrupt company of “anti-
consumer” demands in its negotiations about fees.  Tribune, along with investors including  hedge funds  such as
Oaktree Capital Management LP and Angelo Gordon & Co., are
asking for tens of millions of dollars in new fees for WPIX and
other stations, Cablevision said in a statement today.  Cablevision pulled the stations “while in the middle of
negotiations,” Tribune said in a separate release. Tribune
would have extended the current carriage agreement while
negotiations continued, the company said.  It’s the second blackout in about four months for Tribune
after satellite provider  DirecTV (DTV)  pulled out 23 Tribune local
outlets for four days in April. DirecTV blamed Tribune for
negotiating in bad faith after discussing terms with management,
only to have them overruled by the bankrupt company’s creditors.
Tribune denied the accusation.  Pay-TV providers are pushing back on rising retransmission
fees to support profit margins while avoiding increasing cable
bills.  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  yesterday reached an agreement with
Sinclair Broadcast Group, which also owns local affiliates, and
 Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  last month agreed to restore Hearst
Television Inc.’s 29 local TV stations after a 10-day blackout.  Retransmission fees are the payments pay-TV operators make
to network affiliates for the right to carry their stations.  ‘Illegal Tying’  Tribune’s WPIX and stations including WCCT, carried in
parts of  Connecticut , and WPHL, which had been available in a
small portion of  New Jersey , were blacked out from Bethpage, New
York-based Cablevision services.  Tribune is attempting to “illegally tie” the carriage of
WCCT to WPIX and other “less popular Tribune-owned channels,”
by requiring Cablevision to take both stations,  Jim Maiella , a
Cablevision spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “We are pursuing both legal and regulatory options to stop
Tribune’s illegal tying and will continue to hold the line on
increasing programming costs,” Maiella said.  Tribune has the same retransmission agreements with
Cablevision as it does with all other cable and satellite
providers,  Gary Weitman , a Tribune spokesman, said via e-mail.  “This approach is more efficient, benefits subscribers, is
completely lawful, and fully complies with the FCC’s good faith
negotiation rules,” he said.  Tribune Bankruptcy  Tribune, the Chicago-based owner of newspapers and TV
stations, filed for bankruptcy in 2008, after the buyout led by
real-estate billionaire  Sam Zell .  A plan for the company to exit bankruptcy and be owned by
its senior lenders, including the hedge-fund investors, was
approved by U.S. Bankruptcy Court Judge Kevin Carey last month.
That plan will be implemented later this year, should the
company win approval from federal regulators to transfer its
television and radio licenses to the new owners.  Cablevision said Tribune’s creditors are “trying to solve
Tribune’s financial problems on the backs of Cablevision
customers.”  Tribune, in its statement, said Cablevision’s blackout is
“designed to mislead their subscribers who rely on Tribune’s
local stations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cecile Daurat at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net  