-- Canada Dollar Falls for First Time in 4 Days as Inflation Slows
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-08-17T21:06:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/canadian-currency-weakens-as-consumer-price-index-slows-in-july.html
Canada ’s dollar weakened against its
U.S counterpart for the first time in four days as inflation
unexpectedly slowed in July, adding to evidence the nation’s
economy is moving away from full capacity.  The currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, pared a sixth weekly gain, its
longest winning streak since 2010. The loonie rose yesterday
against most major peers amid bets the economic recovery in the
U.S., the nation’s largest trade partner, was building momentum.  “We got a bit of a knee-jerk reaction to the data that
came in weaker than expected,” Matthew Perrier, Toronto-based
director of foreign exchange at Bank of Montreal, said in a
telephone interview. “The backdrop still seems supportive for
the Canadian dollar.”  Canada’s currency depreciated 0.3 percent to 98.93 cents
per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It gained 0.2 percent this
week. The last time it rose for more than five straight weeks
was a stretch that ended in October 2010. One Canadian dollar
buys $1.0108.  Implied volatility for one-month options on the U.S. dollar
versus the Canadian currency touched the lowest level since May
2007, 6.15 percent. The five-year average is 12 percent. Implied
volatility, which traders quote and use to set option prices,
signals the expected pace of currency swings.  Government bonds  rose, pushing the yield on  two-year debt 
down four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 1.20
percent. It touched 1.26 percent yesterday, the highest since
May 18. The price of the 2.25 percent securities maturing in
August 2014 increased 7 cents to C$102.01.  Ten-year yields  fell
two basis points to 1.95 percent.  U.S. Reports  The Canadian currency’s decline was tempered by better-
than-forecast readings in U.S.  consumer confidence  and leading
economic indicators.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months increased 0.4 percent after a revised 0.4
percent drop in June, the New York-based group said today. The
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary August index
of consumer sentiment increased to 73.6, the highest level since
May, from 72.3 the prior month.  The loonie has gained this week versus 13 of its 16 most-
traded counterparts as increases in U.S. retail sales,
industrial output and building permits spurred speculation North
American economic growth will sustain Canada’s exports.  Raw
materials , led by crude oil, account for about half of the
nation’s export revenue.  ‘Modestly’ Bullish  “If this risk-on environment continues through next week,
there’s a decent chance that the Canadian dollar tests the 98-
cent level, which is its high on the year,” Blake Jespersen,
managing director of foreign exchange in Toronto at Bank of
Montreal, said in a telephone interview.  Jespersen said he’s “modestly” bullish on the Canadian
dollar in the short term.  The currency rallied 3.5 percent over the past six months
versus nine developed-nation peers monitored by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, the best performance. The U.S.
currency strengthened 2.6 percent, while  Australia ’s dollar
slipped 0.5 percent and the euro tumbled 4.5 percent.  The  consumer price index  advanced 1.3 percent in July from
a year ago, versus a 1.5 percent gain the prior month,
 Statistics Canada  said today from Ottawa. The core rate, which
excludes eight volatile products, increased 1.7 percent after a
June gain of 2 percent. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast that the total rate would be 1.5 percent and core would
be 2 percent.  Manufacturing Falls  The data followed a Statistics Canada report yesterday that
showed the nation’s manufacturing sales unexpectedly fell 0.4
percent in June.  “I wouldn’t be surprised to see people tactically reduce
some of their Canadian holdings,” Darcy Browne, managing
director of capital-markets trading at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce in Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “There
hasn’t been a lot of joy in Canada if you look at the
fundamentals. How far can it run on safe-haven status?”  Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark Carney  said last month
inflation will “remain noticeably below the 2 percent target
over the coming year” in part because of lower gasoline prices.
Carney also said it “may become appropriate” to raise his key
1 percent  interest rate  for the first time since September 2010
as the economy moves toward full output.  The likelihood the Bank of Canada will raise the benchmark
 interest rate  at its January meeting decreased to 23.1 percent
today, from 38.6 percent yesterday, according to Bloomberg
calculations on overnight index swaps.  Policy makers’ next meeting is Sept. 5. They have held the
rate at 1 percent since September 2010 to support the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  