-- Cantaloupe Outbreak Kills Two, Sickens 141 in U.S. States
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-08-17T22:26:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/cantaloupe-outbreak-kills-two-sickens-141-in-u-s-states.html
Salmonella  linked to cantaloupes is
responsible for killing two people and sickening 141 others in
20 U.S. states, federal regulators said.  Among those sickened, 31 were hospitalized, the U.S.  Food
and Drug Administration  said today in a statement. Kentucky had
the most reports of illness, 50, followed by Illinois with 17
and  Indiana  with 13, according to the statement.  “FDA officials are actively investigating potential
sources of the outbreak, and will continue to update the public
as more specific information becomes available,” the FDA said.  While the FDA didn’t say what farms the cantaloupes came
from or in what stores they were sold, state officials in
Kentucky and Indiana said they found evidence that the fruit may
have been grown in southwestern Indiana. Almost a year ago 146
people were sickened and at least 30 died from listeria linked
to cantaloupe grown at Jensen Farms in Granada,  Colorado . That
outbreak was the deadliest in almost 90 years.  “It is great that state health departments give us the
numbers, but why not the name of the farm where the cantaloupes
were grown, and more importantly, what grocery stores they were
sold at,”  Bill Marler , a lawyer at Marler Clark LLP in  Seattle 
who represents more than 40 victims of the Jensen Farms
outbreak, said in an e-mail.  Kentucky Deaths  Salmonella, a bacteria, remains the most frequent cause of
foodborne infections in the U.S. with an estimated 1.2 million
people stricken each year and $365 million in direct medical
expenditures, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in
Atlanta reported in June 2011.  In Kentucky, two tests on the cantaloupes connected to the
outbreak showed the same strain of salmonella that has stricken
consumers in the state, said Beth Fisher, a spokeswoman for the
Cabinet for Health and Family Services. The first illnesses
began in the second week of July, she said in a telephone
interview.  The number of ill persons identified in each state is as
follows: Alabama, 7; Arkansas, 3; California, 2; Georgia, 1;
Illinois, 17; Indiana, 13; Iowa, 7;  Kentucky , 50; Michigan, 6;
Minnesota, 3; Missouri, 9; Mississippi, 2; New Jersey, 1; North
Carolina, 3; Ohio, 3; Pennsylvania, 2; South Carolina, 3;
Tennessee, 6; Texas, 1; and Wisconsin, 2, according to the FDA.  Most people infected with salmonella develop diarrhea,
fever, and abdominal cramps 12 to 72 hours after infection. The
illness usually lasts 4 to 7 days and most people recover
without treatment, according to the FDA.  In some people, the diarrhea may be so severe that the
patient may need to be hospitalized. In these patients, the
infection may spread from the intestines to the blood stream,
and then to other sites in the body and can cause death unless
treated promptly with antibiotics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  