-- CBS Drops Copyright Suit Against ABC Over ‘Glass House’
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-08-17T19:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/cbs-drops-copyright-suit-against-abc-over-glass-house-.html
CBS Corp. (CBS)  dropped a lawsuit alleging
that “The Glass House,” an ABC network reality television
show, is a copy of CBS’s “Big Brother,” according to a court
filing.  CBS, based in New York, sued Burbank, California-based  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC in May, alleging that “The Glass House”
infringed on its own reality series, in which a group of
contestants spend months secluded in a house, evicting one
another on camera.  CBS today filed a notice of voluntary dismissal in federal
court in  Los Angeles . The broadcaster said in a statement that
it reserved the right to re-file its claim.  “The viewers have spoken and delivered the ultimate form
of justice against ‘The Glass House,’” CBS said in the
statement. In the week ended Aug. 12, “The Glass House” ranked
87th among broadcast shows in TV ratings based on viewers, with
an audience of 1.59 million, according to Nielsen data.  U.S. District Judge Gary Feess in June denied CBS’s request
to block the ABC show, saying that he wasn’t convinced CBS would
prevail in its copyright suit. The harm to ABC and the people
working on “Glass House” caused by stopping the show would
outweigh the harm to CBS from allowing it to air, he said.  Two former supervising producers and a former co-executive
producer of “ Big Brother ” plus 16 other ex-producers and
series staff are working on “Glass House” and disclosed CBS
trade secrets and confidential information in violation of
nondisclosure agreements, CBS said in its complaint.  CBS said the contract and trade-secrets claims against the
ex-producers will continue in arbitration.  Representatives of ABC didn’t immediately respond to e-
mailed requests for comment on the dismissal.  The case is CBS v. ABC, 12-4073, U.S. District Court,
Central District of  California  (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  