-- Chile May Delay Public Spending Curbs Until 2014, Dittborn Says
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-08-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/chile-may-delay-public-spending-curbs-until-2014-dittborn-says.html
Chile  will increase public spending
by as much as 5 percent in real terms next year before curbing
expenditure in 2014 to meet election pledges, Deputy Finance
Minister Julio Dittborn said.  Spending increases will match economic growth of 4 percent
to 5 percent in 2013, before falling behind similar expansion
the year after, when this government’s four-year term ends,
Dittborn said in an interview in Santiago.  Public spending in the world’s top copper producer expanded
3.3 percent in 2011, when gross domestic product climbed 6
percent, while expenditures will grow 6.4 percent in 2012,
according to the Budget Office. Limiting gains in spending helps
limit gains in the peso and allows policy makers to keep
borrowing costs lower, Dittborn said.  “We made a promise to grow the budget in real terms at a
slower pace than the economy to leave more space for the private
sector to grow,” said Dittborn, who studied economics at the
 University of Chicago . “One year we did that and the other one
we did not -- the budget increased more than the economy. So we
probably should apply some brakes.”  Public spending plans may change along with the outlook for
the global economy, with expenditures possibly rising in line
with expansion for two years, with Dittborn said. The government
hasn’t yet introduced budget legislation to Congress for 2013.  Monetary Policy  Chile’s central bank yesterday kept its  benchmark interest
rate  unchanged at 5 percent for the seventh straight month,
saying in a statement that “financial tensions” in  Europe  and
a “tight” local labor market were partially behind its
decision.  Dittborn said borrowing costs are “in the higher range,”
adding that the central bank is free to make its own  monetary
policy .  Inflation has eased in the past five months, reaching 2.5
percent in July, the lowest level in 20 months. While inflation
rates probably will end this year on the lower end of the
central bank’s 2 percent to 4 percent target range, the drought
in the U.S. threatens to increase food prices in Chile, Dittborn
said.  Chile’s economic growth also poses a risk to  consumer
prices  as a falling unemployment rate causes labor shortages in
some regions of the country, he said. The jobless rate dropped
to 6.6 percent in the second quarter from 7.2 percent in the
same period last year.  “The foundations of our economy are very sound: we don’t
have any fiscal problems and we have very little public debt,”
he said. “The central bank could lower interest rates. They
have not and have been very conservative.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  