-- Chile Central Bank Puts Spotlight on Peso While Holding Rate
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-08-17T13:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/chile-central-bank-puts-spotlight-on-peso-while-holding-rate.html
Chilean policy makers highlighted
the peso’s appreciation yesterday, fueling speculation the
central bank will revive a dollar-buying program, while keeping
the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a seventh month.  The policy board, led by bank President Rodrigo Vergara,
held the key interest rate yesterday at 5 percent, as forecast
by all 17 analysts  polled by Bloomberg . Policy makers in a
statement accompanying the decision said the peso had
appreciated, making the first mention of the currency’s gain
since its dollar-buying program ended in December last year.  The peso is the world’s best-performing currency tracked by
Bloomberg this year behind  Hungary ’s forint and the fourth-most
profitable bet for investors who borrow in dollars to invest in
other currencies. While policy makers are unlikely to intervene
in the peso at current levels, their statement may cause the
currency to soften, analyst Sebastian Senzacqua said.  “It’s important to note that, unlike previous statements,
the peso was mentioned and may be an area of attention for board
members in coming months,” Bice Inversiones’ Senzacqua said by
phone from Santiago. “The local currency has experienced a
major appreciation compared to other currencies, which causes
the market to speculate about intervention.”  Policy makers last intervened in the  currency market  in
January 2011 when the peso reached 465.75 to the dollar, with
the bank buying $50 million a day for 12 months. The peso
depreciated by less than 0.1 percent to 483.82 per dollar at
9:17 a.m. Santiago time.  Dollar Purchases  In a trade-weighted and inflation-adjusted index, the peso
has reached 72, according to  Banco de Credito e Inversiones (BCI) ,
compared with 73 before the previous intervention in January
2011.  Policy makers started mentioning the peso’s gains almost
four months before initiating dollar purchases in a Sept. 16,
2010 statement accompanying the rate decision. They hadn’t
mentioned the peso in a statement since Jan. 12 this year, when
they said its depreciation in the fourth quarter was impacting
inflation.  Intervening in the currency market may have little impact,
as it wasn’t very successful in 2011, Deputy Finance Minister
Julio Dittborn said in an interview yesterday.  Dollar Weakness  “What I’ve seen as a Chilean consumer is that the price of
the dollar still goes down,” the University of Chicago-trained
economist said from his offices in Santiago. Policy makers
“should evaluate very carefully what happened in the last
intervention.”  Other than making efforts to contain growth of public
spending and promoting hedging, the government has limited tools
to curb the peso’s rally, Dittborn said.  Asked about the peso during an economic forum in Santiago
this month, central bank President Rodrigo Vergara kept open his
options by saying his board can intervene when the  exchange rate 
moves away from its fundamentals.  The central bank and government already are under pressure
to take measures to soften the peso.  Chile’s fruit lobby, known as Fedefruta, has met with
officials at the Economy Ministry as well as lawmakers and will
set up meetings at the central bank to express its concern that
the peso’s appreciation threatens to make exports of some fruits
unprofitable, Fedefruta President Cristian Allendes said on Aug.
10.  ‘Political Pressure’  The Santiago Chamber of Commerce in July urged the central
bank to consider lowering borrowing costs, saying high local
interest rates had attracted funds that were pushing up the
peso, according to an e-mailed statement.  “We are going to suffer political pressures I think on
this from fruit growers and exporters,” Dittborn said. “I
don’t know if we’re able to resist those pressures. Probably the
central bank is going to do something; if something happens,
it’s going to come from the central bank in terms of rates or
interventions in the foreign exchange market.”  Policy makers will reduce borrowing costs by February as
 inflation rates  remain at or below the central bank’s 3 percent
target for the next two years, according to the median estimate
of 55 traders and investors polled by the bank on Aug. 7.
Inflation has eased in the past five months, reaching 2.5
percent in July, the lowest level in 20 months.  One-year interest rate swaps, which reflect traders’ views
of average borrowing costs, were unchanged at 4.96 percent as of
9:11 a.m.  Slowing inflation has been accompanied by robust economic
growth in the world’s top copper producer as rising wages and
falling unemployment push up  consumer spending . Copper traded at
$3.3930 a pound yesterday, down 2.1 percent this year.  ‘Remain Vigilant’  The economy expanded 6.2 percent in June from last year
after growing 5.3 percent in May and 4.8 percent in April. Wages
increased 6 percent in June and unemployment dropped to 6.6
percent in the second quarter from 7.2 percent in the year-ago
period.  Still, growth will moderate in the second half of 2012 as a
global deceleration reduces demand for Chilean exports, with
gross domestic product in the Andean nation expanding 4 percent
to 5 percent this year, compared with 6 percent in 2011,
according to central bank forecasts.  “There are major risks and we must remain vigilant,”
Vergara said in the Aug. 7 economic forum. “The effects of the
external environment on activity have been limited and less than
expected. But it’s impossible for us to remain an island if the
situation worsens.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 