-- China Government Asked to Probe EU Solar Dumping, Xinhua Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-17T04:11:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/china-government-asked-to-probe-eu-solar-dumping-xinhua-says.html
China ’s Ministry of Commerce is
looking into a request to investigate polysilicon dumping by
German manufacturers after the country’s biggest maker,
 Solarworld AG (SWV) , pushed for a similar European Union probe.  Four Chinese solar companies, including New York-listed  LDK
Solar Co. (LDK) , asked the government to start anti-dumping, anti-
subsidy probes on polysilicon exported from the EU, the official
 Xinhua  News Agency reported today, without saying where it got
the information. The polysilicon, the raw material used for
solar panels, mainly came from Germany and Italy to a lesser
extent, with Munich-based  Wacker Chemie AG (WCH)  responsible for
exporting the most, Xinhua said.  The Chinese complaint follows a push by about 25 European
manufacturers led by Solarworld to get the European Commission
to investigate whether Chinese rivals sold products at a loss in
regional markets. China may take countermeasures if the European
Commission acts on Solarworld’s filing, the China Daily
newspaper reported on July 25, citing an unidentified commerce
ministry official.  The U.S. has proposed anti-dumping duties on Chinese solar
makers ranging from 31 percent to 250 percent after the Commerce
Department in May ruled they sold products below costs.  Suntech Power (STP)  Holdings Co., LDK,  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  and  GCL-
Poly (3800)  Energy Holdings Ltd. are China’s biggest solar makers.  Chinese companies accounted for about 68 percent of all
solar panels last year compared with 40 percent in 2009,
Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates. EU country companies
produced about 12 percent of panels in 2011, down from 19
percent in 2009 while market share held by U.S. companies has
dropped to 9 percent from 23 percent in the same period.  Prices for standard, polysilicon-based panels were 84 cents
a watt at the end of July, down from $1.34 a year ago, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  