-- China Said to Order Bank Action as Developer Loans Sour
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-17T05:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/china-said-to-order-action-by-banks-as-developer-loans-sour.html
China’s banking regulator  told
lenders to push developers for faster home sales, citing signs
that  credit quality  is worsening, a person with knowledge of the
matter said.  The  China  Banking Regulatory Commission told lenders they
should also demand more collateral, or tell developers to sell
projects or stakes, if the banks predict they’ll have difficulty
repaying  loans  due within 12 months, the person said, asking not
to be identified because the instructions aren’t public.  Mortgages and developer loans classified as “special-
mention,” or those at risk of souring, started to rise
recently, the person said. Lack of funding, high leverage and a
peak of loans maturing have increased the risk that some
developers’ financing chains may collapse, the CBRC told
lenders, according to the person.  Developers are facing “significant liquidity issues,”
KPMG LLP said last month. Housing sales by area dropped 7.5
percent in the first seven months as the government enforced
restrictions to stem speculation, which Premier  Wen Jiabao  has
said will remain in place to keep property affordable.  “We can’t rule out the possibility that very small
developers may get into trouble if policy becomes unexpectedly
tight, but the regional bellwethers and listed companies should
be OK,” Dai Fang, a Shanghai-based analyst at Zheshang
Securities Co., said by phone. “Sales will most likely rise at
a stable pace” in the rest of the year.  Shares Fall  A press official for the Beijing-based regulator, who asked
not to be identified because of the CBRC’s rules, declined to
comment.  A  gauge  tracking Shanghai-listed property shares tumbled
0.7 percent at 1:03 p.m.  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the nation’s biggest
publicly traded developer, fell 1.3 percent in Shenzhen to 8.53
 yuan , after rising as much as 0.7 percent.  Lenders were also told at the end of last month they should
enhance monitoring of developers’ cash flows, the person said.
The CBRC additionally warned that risks may be obscured because
some  real estate companies  obtained funding through personal
loans or borrowing by affiliated businesses after bank credit
tightened, the person said.  The regulator told banks that risks in lending to local
government financing vehicles remain prominent, the person said.
A small number of lenders’ outstanding loans to LGFVs rose this
year, violating a CBRC requirement, while some banks continued
granting credit to borrowers they had disqualified, the person
said.  Repay Debts  Moody’s Investors Service estimated in May that 29 Chinese
developers on its rating list, including  Hopson Development
Holdings Ltd. (754) ,  Greentown (3900)  China Holdings Ltd. and  Shanghai Zendai
Property Ltd. (755) , need to repay 159 billion yuan ($25 billion) of
short-term debt this year, the most in data going back to 2008.  Greentown, a developer based in the eastern Chinese city of
Hangzhou, in June agreed to sell stakes in nine projects for
3.37 billion yuan to  Sunac China Holdings Ltd. (1918)  to help repay
loans and boost capital.  Home transaction volume may fall this month from July,
Centaline Group, parent of China’s biggest real-estate
brokerage, said in a report e-mailed Aug. 13. Developers, with
stockpiles of completed homes equivalent to more than 10 months’
sales, still need to stimulate demand even as sentiment improves
after the central bank cut  interest rates  to stem an economic
slowdown, according to the report.  Bad Loans  Chinese banks’  bad loans  increased for a third straight
quarter in the three months ended June 30, rising by 18.2
billion yuan, the CBRC said Aug. 15. That’s the longest streak
of deterioration in eight years, highlighting pressures on asset
quality and profit growth as the economy weakens.  Shanghai Pudong Development Bank Co. (600000)  said this week non-
performing loans, or those overdue for at least three months,
surged more than 30 percent in the first half to 7.7 billion
yuan as of June 30, mainly because of rising defaults in the
eastern Chinese cities of Wenzhou and Hangzhou. Special-mention
loans, normally overdue for fewer than 90 days, jumped 28
percent in the same period, the bank said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 John Liu  in Beijing at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  