-- Cisco Bondholders Acquiesce to Dividend Rise: Corporate Finance
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-08-17T15:28:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/cisco-bondholders-acquiesce-to-dividend-rise-corporate-finance.html
Bondholders are giving  Cisco Systems
Inc. (CSCO)  a free pass on its plan to reward shareholders with half
its  free cash flow  this year as the biggest maker of computer-
networking equipment cuts prices and jobs to increase profit.  Cisco’s bonds are trading at levels that imply it should be
rated Aa2, according to Moody’s Corp.’s capital markets research
group, two levels above its  actual rating  of A1. Cisco’s fourth-
quarter  results  beat analysts’ estimates, and executives said
this week that the company will raise its dividend 75 percent as
part of a plan to reward shareholders with at least half the
cash generated from operations.  The firm’s stock reversed a 4 percent 2012 decline to a 5.2
percent gain on the news. Bondholders of  San Jose , California-
based Cisco may not mind the shareholder largesse because of the
firm’s “relatively strong balance sheet,” according to money
manager Bonnie Baha of Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP.  “It seems they can walk the fine line between keeping
stockholders happy and debt holders happy at the same time,”
Baha, head of global developed credit at the firm, which
oversees $40 billion and doesn’t own Cisco bonds, said in a
telephone interview. “As long as they don’t get out over their
skis in terms of making big acquisitions and keep interest
aligned between shareholders and bondholder and management, it
should be fine.”  Cisco’s bonds have fallen 0.9 percent in the past two days,
about in line with the 0.7 percent decline for all the bonds in
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Industrial Corporates
index. The company’s $3 billion of 5.5 percent notes due 2016
fell to 115.9 cents on the dollar, down 0.2 cent, to yield 0.89
percent on Aug. 15.  New Dividend  The company is raising its  dividend  to 14 cents a share,
starting this quarter, from 8 cents, for a yield of 3.2 percent.
Cisco won’t have to issue debt to fund the dividend increase,
according to Kristin Carvell, a company spokeswoman. Its shares
surged more than 9 percent after the announcement to close at
$19.02 in  New York  trading yesterday, before rising to $19.12 as
of 11:04 a.m. today.  The dividend doesn’t affect the rating for Moody’s analysts
 Richard Lane  and Robert Jankowitz, because the payouts as a
percentage of discretionary cash flow is forecast to remain as
low as 20 percent, compared with 40 percent for non-technology
companies, they wrote in an Aug. 15 note. Discretionary cash
flow is cash from operations minus  capital expenditures .  Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  has cut 7,800 jobs,
shut businesses and reduced prices to win business lost to
Juniper Networks Inc. and Hewlett-Packard Co. and combat a
slowdown in Europe.  Domestic Cash  Cisco, a beneficiary of the growth in data that needs to be
shuttled among servers, mobile phones,  search engines  and video
websites, reported profit Aug. 15, excluding some costs, of 47
cents a share. That compared with the average estimate of 46
cents in a Bloomberg survey for the fourth quarter, which ended
July 28.  The company, which has been an advocate for a tax break on
overseas profits, doesn’t need the “repatriation” holiday to
fund the dividend, Chambers said during an Aug. 15 conference
call to discuss fourth-quarter results with analysts and
investors. Of Cisco’s $48.7 billion in cash and investments,
only $6.2 billion was available in the U.S. at the end of the
last quarter, with about $42.5 billion parked overseas.  Demand for networking equipment has been weak in  Europe , in
 India , and from government agencies, Chambers said on the call.
Europe, which makes up about 20 percent of  sales , is “going to
get worse before it gets better, and federal  government spending 
is not going to improve in the short term here in the U.S.,” he
said. Orders from Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa fell 6
percent from last year, the only region to experience a decline.  ‘Something Unique’  Chief Financial Officer Frank Calderoni said on the call
that the company would return at least half of annual free cash
flow to shareholders as dividends or buybacks.  The dividend change does “raise an eyebrow” for  Joel Levington , managing director for corporate credit at Brookfield
Investment Management Inc. in New York.  Cisco’s cash flow and cash balances are “largely tilted
outside the U.S.,” which “limits financial flexibility,
something unique for such a highly rated entity,” he said in an
e-mail. Cisco can get away with it if it “will stop pursuing
moderate-to-large acquisitions,” he said.  Profit Outlook  Including last month’s acquisition of NDS Group Ltd., which
makes software that powers cable set-top boxes and delivers
video, Cisco  forecast  profit of 45 cents to 47 cents a share
this quarter, compared with the average estimate of 46 cents.
Sales will rise 4 percent to 6 percent from a year earlier.  The company spent $375 million on business acquisitions in
its latest fiscal year, up from $266 million the year before,
according to an earnings statement.  With its free  cash flow  of $2.8 billion last quarter, Cisco
can afford the dividend, and “this is part of the transition to
a more mature company,” according to Jon Duensing, the Boulder,
Colorado-based head of corporate credit at money manager Smith
Breeden Associates, which oversees $6.3 billion and doesn’t
reveal its positions.  “From a debtholder’s perspective, they currently have
plenty of balance-sheet cushion,” he said in a telephone
interview. “While it’s currently regarded as manageable, it’s
likely this type of activity will continue to be a theme.”  -- With assistance from Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco .
Editors: Mitchell Martin, Faris Khan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  