-- CME Clearing Europe to Accept Gold as Collateral on Demand
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-08-17T12:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/cme-clearing-europe-to-accept-gold-as-collateral-on-demand-1-.html
CME Clearing  Europe  will accept
physical gold as collateral, extending the list of assets it’s
prepared to receive as regulators globally push more derivatives
trading through clearing houses.  CME Group Inc. (CME) ’s European clearing house, based in  London ,
appointed  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , HSBC Holdings Plc and JPMorgan Chase
& Co. as gold depositaries. There will be a 15 percent charge on
the market value of gold deposits and a limit of $200 million or
20 percent of the overall initial margin requirement per
clearing member based on whichever is lower, Andrew Lamb,
chief executive officer of CME Clearing Europe, said today.  “We started with a narrow range of  government securities 
and are now extending that,” Lamb said in an interview today.
“We recognize there will be a massive demand for collateral as
a result of the clearing mandate. This is part of our attempt to
maintain the risk management standard and to offer greater
flexibility to clearing members and end clients.”  CME Clearing Europe , which started on May 6 last year,
plans to offer  interest-rate swaps  and more commodities later
this year, he said. In the U.S., the Dodd-Frank Act means more
derivatives than ever will be processed at a clearing house
while the European Markets Infrastructure Regulation is doing
the same in the region. JPMorgan in February last year said it
will allow gold to be used as collateral for trading, following
similar moves by CME Group and  Intercontinental Exchange  Inc.  Gold Demand  Investors and central banks are expanding gold holdings on
demand for a protection of wealth and alternative to currencies.
Gold held in bullion-backed  exchange-traded products  reached a
record 2,417.3 metric tons on Aug. 10, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Central banks bought 254.2 tons in the first
half of 2012 and may add close to 500 tons for the year as a
whole, the London-based World Gold Council said yesterday.  Gold for immediate delivery traded at $1,616.77 an ounce by
1:40 p.m. in London. Prices are up 3.4 percent this year,
extending 11 consecutive annual gains.  Derivatives clearing in Europe is dominated by LCH.Clearnet
Ltd., owner of the world’s largest interest-rate-swap
clearinghouse, and  Intercontinental Exchange (ICE) , which processes
trades in European-based credit-default swaps and energy
commodities such as Brent oil futures.  A clearinghouse reduces the potential harm from a member
firm’s default by acting as the buyer to every seller and the
seller to every buyer. Most futures-exchange operators,
including  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , its Eurex Clearing, CME and ICE
own clearinghouse and don’t permit similar contracts traded on
competing venues to be processed with theirs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  or @NandiniSukumar on Twitter;
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  