-- Colombia Weighs Fiscal Cost of FX Intervention, Uribe Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-08-17T21:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/colombia-weighs-fiscal-cost-of-fx-intervention-uribe-says-1-.html
The Colombian central bank weighs
the costs of “sterilizing” its purchases of dollars when
formulating its policy of reserve accumulation, central bank
chief Jose Dario Uribe said.  “The accumulation of reserves always starts from a careful
analysis of the costs and the benefits, and of the opportunity
costs, being responsible with the country, and taking into
account that sterilizing reserve accumulation costs about 9
billion pesos ($4.9 million) for every $100 million bought,”
Uribe wrote in a  paper  published on the central bank’s website
today.  Colombia ’s peso fell for an eighth day today, its longest
losing streak since August 2008, on speculation officials will
step up intervention to weaken the currency. Finance Minister
Juan Carlos Echeverry said yesterday that he is pleased with the
recent fall in the peso while it is too early to declare victory
in the “currency war.”  The central bank never buys reserves “in magnitudes and
ways that erode the credibility and reputation of the central
bank,” Uribe wrote.  “Massive” exchange rate intervention can cause excess
credit growth and asset price bubbles if it is not sterilized,
Uribe wrote. If the massive intervention is sterilized, it has
high “quasi-fiscal” costs that will sooner or later make the
strategy unsustainable, Uribe wrote.  Policy Balance  The peso weakened 1.6 percent this week, the biggest fall
among major Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
currency pared its rally this year to 6.5 percent, still the
largest among global counterparts after the Hungarian forint and
the Chilean peso.  The central bank has intervened in  currency markets  to have
foreign exchange reserves at levels that guarantee international
payments, and reduce the country’s vulnerability to external
shocks, Uribe said.  The intervention also aimed to moderate episodes of excess
volatility, Uribe said.  Central bank board member Cesar Vallejo earlier this week
said that policy makers are considering doubling the bank’s
daily dollar purchases to $40 million or extending the program
beyond its scheduled end in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  