-- Colombia Coal Railway to Boost Cargoes as Strike Ends
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-08-17T19:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/colombia-coal-railway-to-boost-cargoes-as-strike-ends.html
Colombia ’s largest coal railway
plans to increase cargoes after workers ended a 25-day strike
that halted trains and increased stockpiles at units of Glencore
International Plc, Drummond Co. and  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc.  Ferrocarriles del Norte de Colombia SA probably will be
able to carry as much as 165,000 tons of coal a day to trim
stockpiles at mines, compared with about 145,000-to-150,000 tons
shipped daily prior to the strike, company President Peter
Burrowes said in a telephone interview today from northern
Colombia. Trains ran today for the first time since July 23.  “They’re carrying a lot of coal,” he said.  The end of the walkout has trimmed prices of coal,
extending a decline this year as demand weakened in  Europe  and
exports rose from the U.S.,  Indonesia  and Colombia, said Karim
Kanji, director of coal trading at  Barclays Capital  in  London .
Coal for delivery next year in northwestern Europe fell 3.2
percent this week as the railway company anticipated an end to
the walkout. The price has fallen 13 percent in six months.  Birmingham, Alabama-based Drummond said last week it was
reducing production because storage facilities at the mine were
filled. The company cut output by about one-third after the
strike began last month, according to union leader Ever Causado.  Units of Drummond, Goldman Sachs and Glencore also own
stakes in the railway, which will increase transport capacity to
about 52 million tons of coal this year from 40 million tons
last year, according to Burrowes.  Pay Demands  Workers have demanded higher pay in Colombia as coal
production rises to a record of as much as 100 million metric
tons this year from almost 86 million tons last year, according
to a forecast by the National Federation of Coal Producers.  Workers at  Glencore’s (GLEN)  Prodeco Group in Colombia extended a
strike that has suspended production at the La Jagua coal mine
in northern Colombia since July 19, union leader Ricardo Machado
said. No talks are scheduled. La Jagua and the nearby
Calenturitas mine produce 14.5 million metric tons of coal
annually, according to Glencore’s website. A court is scheduled
to rule on whether the strike is legal on Aug. 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  