-- Commercial-Mortgage Bond Trades Surge Amid Boost in Offerings
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-08-17T13:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/commercial-mortgage-bond-trades-surge-amid-boost-in-offerings.html
Commercial-mortgage bond trading
surged this week after a rally pushed values on some of the
riskiest boom-era securities to the highest in five months.  Investors have sought bids on $4.25 billion of debt linked
to everything from skyscrapers to strip malls the past week, 64
percent more than the average weekly volume in 2012, according
to Empirasign Strategies LLC, a New York-based data provider.  Investors are unloading commercial-mortgage backed
securities after prices for debt issued during the market’s peak
in 2007 reached the highest since March, according to Barclays
Plc. Values have held up “very well” amid the increased sales,
according to Tom Digan, head trader at Sorin Capital Management
LLC, an investment firm specializing in commercial real-estate
bonds.  “Investors are searching for yield,” Digan said. CMBS
“offer attractive risk-adjusted yields relative to most other
fixed-income alternatives.”  Buyers have been snapping up commercial-mortgage debt amid
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will keep its benchmark interest
rate target near zero until mid-2015.  The extra yield investors demand to own top-ranked bonds
linked to commercial-property loans instead of Treasuries has
declined 48 basis points to 147 basis points, or 1.47 percentage
points, more than Treasuries in the past two months, according
to a Barclays Plc index. The spread is the lowest since at least
January 2008.  Fed Sales  This week’s sales have been focused on so-called AJ and AM
commercial-mortgage bonds, many of which have been downgraded
after being assigned top grades at issuance.  “We have already seen over $1.3 billion of AM and AJ
supply this week, which is typically what we have been seeing
over the course of the entire month,” said Sorin’s Digan.  The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  and UBS AG this year
sold $9 billion in bonds tied to skyscrapers, shopping malls and
hotels, in two auctions, starting with the district bank’s
record sale on April 26.  Demand for the debt exceeded expectations, though the
deluge of lower-rated securities may weigh on values when
investors want to sell, Credit Suisse Group AG analysts said in
a May 17 report. Demand has been “robust” during this week’s
sales, the Credit Suisse analysts said in a report yesterday.  “Despite the wave of selling, the market has, so far,
absorbed the supply,” according to the New York-based analysts
led by Roger Lehman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  