-- Commercial Rebounding With Less-Than-$5 Million Sales: Mortgages
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-08-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/commercial-rebounding-with-less-than-5-million-sales-mortgages.html
Broker Connie de la Garza has been
trying to sell an empty medical-office building in Harlingen,
 Texas , for six months. He’s finally getting offers after
slashing the asking price by 26 percent to $1.4 million.  “That’s when the real activity happened,” said de la
Garza, the owner of Bahnman Realty Inc., who is marketing the
property along with Brandon Beeson of Edge Realty Capital
Markets. After two bids that were “absolutely ridiculous,” the
third “is something that we can work with,” he said.  Sales of small buildings across the U.S. have risen this
year to the highest since 2008 as buyers take advantage of
 prices  that have yet to rebound from the property crash and
increased access to financing. Improved demand would help
broaden a commercial real estate recovery that’s so far been
confined to trophy office towers, apartments and malls to a
broader swath of the market. Loans for properties valued at less
than $1 million account for almost a third of commercial
mortgages held by banks, according to Trepp LLC.  “It’s making the market more liquid, more transparent and
if we get rid of this distress we’ll have a firmer footing,”
said Randy Fuchs, principal and co-founder of Boxwood Means
Inc., a  Stamford , Connecticut-based provider of data about small
commercial properties.  The sales volume for properties of less than $5 million
jumped 41 percent in May from a year earlier to $4 billion,
Boxwood Means reported this month. Of the 122 metropolitan areas
that the company tracks, 88 posted year-over-year increases.
Total volume for the first five months of 2012 was $20.3
billion, the highest for the period since 2008.  Slower Recovery  These types of buildings-- local offices, shopping centers
and restaurants that dot towns such as Harlingen, population of
about 65,000 -- were slow to recover from the recession because
of their dependency on local economies and the housing market.
Prices for buildings of less than $5 million fell in May to a
new low, bringing the plunge from an October 2007 peak to 22
percent, Boxwood Means data show.  The properties have trailed a rebound in demand for larger
buildings, which tend to attract more money from real estate
investment trusts and institutional buyers. A Green Street
Advisors Inc. index of commercial real estate values measuring
REIT properties is up 53 percent from its 2009 low and is just 6
percent from its August 2007 peak, according to the  Newport
Beach , California-based research firm.  “There’s definitely not a lot of institutional money
chasing those kinds of deals.” Ryan Severino, senior economist
at  Reis Inc. (REIS) , a New York-based property-data company, said of
small-capitalization properties.  Better Financing  Buyers tend to be high-net-worth individuals and private
investment groups, according to Jennifer Pierson, national
managing director of the private-capital division of brokerage
CBRE Group Inc. in Dallas. Business owners also purchase the
properties for their operations, Fuchs said.  Financing is becoming more available for small-cap deals,
and credit terms is increasingly attractive to buyers, Pierson
said. U.S. commercial and multifamily loan originations jumped
25 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, according
to the  Mortgage Bankers Association .  U.S. banks have about $308 billion in commercial mortgages
with balances under $1 million, equating to about 29 percent of
all commercial-property loans, according to Trepp, a  New York- 
based bank and real estate data company. Community banks, which
tend to focus on small-business clients, are often the lenders
for such deals. Loans for less than $1 million account for about
40 percent of commercial mortgages for banks with less than $1
billion of assets, Trepp data show.  Lending Increase  “We’re starting to see finally some pickup, nothing
robust, but a pickup in commercial lending,” said Paul Merski,
chief economist at the Washington-based  Independent Community
Bankers of America , a trade group for banks with assets of $3
million to $17 billion with almost 5,000 members. “We see a
slight turning of the corner.”  Lenders are working through troubled commercial property
loans stemming from the real estate crash, and smaller banks are
now reversing their loan loss reserves, Merski said. Banks with
less than $1 billion of assets have shed $6.5 billion, or 20
percent, of their bad loans since the first quarter of 2010,
according to  Matt Anderson , managing director at Trepp.  Buyers are attracted to small-capitalization real estate
because it offers higher returns than other investments, such as
in the  bond market , said Jeffrey Ackerman, a managing director
in CBRE Group Inc.’s private capital group in Pittsburgh. The
 Federal Reserve  has kept  interest rates  near zero since 2008,
reducing  yields  on most debt investments.  More Stability  “They see the opportunity to achieve good leveraged
returns in real estate,” Ackerman said. “As the property
markets are stabilizing and occupancy rates are going up and the
tenants are doing better, that gives more stability to these
investments and that makes them more attractive.”  Capitalization rates, a measure of yield for the real
estate industry, averaged 7.7 percent this year for office
buildings and retail properties priced under $5 million,
according to Real Capital Analytics Inc., a New York-based
research firm. They were 6.8 percent for apartments.  Improvement in the residential market may also boost
commercial property landlords as a strong housing market helps
increase  consumer spending , Fuchs said. U.S. home prices climbed
2.5 percent in June from a year earlier, the fourth consecutive
increase, CoreLogic Inc. reported on Aug. 7.  Lasting Change  A recovery is dependent on sustained improvements to the
economy, and landlords for small-cap properties face declining
leasing rates, according to Boxwood Means. Office rents fell 3.3
percent in May to $16.06 per square foot and retail rents
declined 2.7 percent to $16.26, the firm’s data show.  “In order for there to be real positive and lasting change
we really need to see some changes in the economic environment
which would flow through to the commercial real estate market,”
Fuchs said.  Community banks also are still facing losses from bad real
estate bets that spurred the closure of more than 450 lenders
since 2007. Delinquency rates for commercial mortgages at banks
with less than $1 billion in assets was 4.3 percent in the first
quarter, down from 4.87 percent a year earlier, Trepp data show.  Small-cap demand is partly dependent on location. Prices in
the biggest cities have improved more than in the country as a
whole, according to Boxwood data. The company’s  index  measuring
prices for small buildings in some of the nation’s 20 biggest
U.S. metro areas rose 1.3 percent from December through May.  “Investors are more likely to be investing in the larger
markets at this point in the recovery,” Fuchs said. “Even the
smaller properties are going to attract that kind of interest as
well.”  ‘Small Markets’  Beeson, the broker with Edge Realty, said it is more
difficult attracting buyers for the building in Harlingen,
located 331 miles (533 kilometers) southwest of Houston, because
it’s in a small town.  “A lot of people just won’t go to those small markets,”
said Beeson, who is based in  Dallas . “If this were in Dallas or
 Chicago , it would obviously be a much more different animal.”  The 42,000-square-foot (3,900-square-meter), two-story
building was transferred to debt holders in 2010 after the
partnership of doctors that leased the building dissolved,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Interest in the property has been “good” since the price
was cut to $1.4 million, Beeson said. He expects it to sell for
close to that amount.  “The general perception is, we’re out of the worst so you
better buy now in a down market,” said Pierson of CBRE.
“There’s sort of the idea that the window is closing.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  