-- Contorinis Insider Case Upheld in Ruling That May Aid U.S.
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-08-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/contorinis-insider-case-upheld-in-ruling-that-may-aid-u-s-2-.html
The insider-trading conviction of
Joseph Contorinis, an ex-Jefferies Paragon Fund money manager,
was upheld by an appeals court in a ruling that may aid
prosecutors as they defend the appeal of Galleon Group LLC
co-founder Raj Rajaratnam.  Contorinis, 48, was convicted in  Manhattan  federal court in
2010 and sentenced to six years in prison for his role in an
insider-trading scheme that prosecutors said earned him more
than $7 million. Jurors found that he traded on tips from Nicos Stephanou, who was an associate director of mergers and
acquisitions at Zurich-based UBS AG.  The 2nd  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Manhattan said yesterday
that a leaked tip may still be prosecuted as inside information
despite rumors or press reports circulating about the event in
the marketplace. The court rejected Contorinis’s claim that the
judge’s instructions to jurors were flawed.  Jurors may find that “the insider tip alters the mix by
confirming the rumor or reports,” a three-judge panel wrote in
a 22-page opinion. “Material, nonpublic information is
information that either is not publicly available or is
sufficiently more detailed and/or reliable than public available
information.”  Roberto Finzi, a lawyer for Contorinis, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message left at his office seeking comment
on the ruling.  Overturns Forfeiture  While upholding the conviction, the court also said the
trial judge erred in ordering Contorinis to forfeit $12.6
million in profits that he didn’t earn or receive himself. The
court returned the case to the district judge for a new hearing
on the forfeiture amount.  Still, the ruling may aid prosecutors as they defend
 insider-trading  appeals by Rajaratnam, who is serving 11 years
in prison, and others who worked on  Wall Street . Part of
Rajaratnam’s appeal attacks the judge’s instructions to the jury
at his own trial in 2011.  Rajaratnam argues that the judge should have told jurors
they needed to find that Rajaratnam traded “on the basis” of
inside information, rather than telling them the tips need only
be “a factor” in the decision to trade.  “It’s not directly affecting Raj’s case but it might give
something that prosecutors want to point to,”  Peter Henning , a
professor at  Wayne State University Law School  in  Detroit , said
in a telephone interview. “If I was the government, I would
cite it.” The court “just said materiality is a jury
assessment.”  Samidh Guha, a lawyer for Rajaratnam, didn’t return a
voice-mail message seeking comment on the ruling.  ‘Moot’ Argument  Former Galleon trader  Zvi Goffer , who is serving 10 years
for insider trading after being convicted last year, raised the
same argument as Contorinis on his appeal. Goffer’s lawyer,
Alexander Dudelson, said in an interview that yesterday’s
opinion may render Goffer’s argument about materiality “moot.”  “We have several issues on appeal,” Dudelson said. “That
was one.”  At the trial, Stephanou, who was the government’s star
witness, testified that he was part of a UBS team advising
Cerberus Capital Management LP in its bid to buy Albertsons Inc.
in 2006.  Stephanou, who pleaded guilty and testified against
Contorinis in exchange for leniency, said he passed inside tips
to Contorinis and others about pending deals including the
acquisition of Albertsons, then the second-biggest U.S. grocer.
At the time, Contorinis’s hedge fund held more than $70 million
in Albertsons stock.  Third Party  In the portion of its ruling about forfeiture, the appeals
court said a trial judge may order a defendant to surrender
proceeds received by others, “provided the actions generating
those proceeds were reasonably foreseeable to the defendant,”
the appeals court said.  “This view does not support an extension to a situation
where the proceeds go directly to an innocent third party and
are never possessed by the defendant,” the court said.  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan, who presided over the
trial, held Contorinis liable for profits made by others who
traded on the tips. Contorinis argued he was an employee and
small equity owner of his firm and shouldn’t forfeit profits he
never received.  Sullivan erred when he ordered Contorinis “to forfeit
funds that were never possessed or controlled by himself or
others,” the appeals court said.  Longest Sentence  The opinion may aid the appeal of  Matthew Kluger , a lawyer
seeking a reduction of his 12-year sentence for insider trading,
the longest in history. Kluger pleaded guilty to stealing
information about corporate mergers from four law firms and
passing it to a friend, who in turn gave it to stock trader
Garrett Bauer.  The scheme netted $37 million over 17 years, with Bauer
making nearly all of the profit and Kluger earning less than
$1 million, according to U.S. prosecutors in  New Jersey . At his
sentencing in June, Kluger attorney  Alan Zegas  said his client
had no idea Bauer made so much.  Zegas said in an interview he may cite the opinion when he
argues Kluger’s case before another appeals court. Zegas said
Kluger should be sentenced only for the profit that was
“reasonably foreseeable” to him, not the amount that was
hidden from him.  New Controversy?  “The opinion cites law that I was arguing at the time of
sentencing,” Zegas said.  Anthony Sabino , a law professor at the Tobin School of
Business at  St. John’s University  in  New York , said the ruling
“could be the beginning of a new controversy on forfeiture.”  “If there is evidence that you know someone else is a
recipient of illegal tips, then you could be perceived as
liable,” Sabino said in a telephone interview. “But if there
isn’t any evidence, a defense lawyer may argue he’s not
responsible or liable for profits or losses made by others.”  The cases are U.S. v. Contorinis, 09-cr-01083, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan), and
U.S. v. Joseph Contorinis, 11-cr-3, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 