-- Correa Says Assange May Stay in Ecuador Embassy Indefinitely
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l   a n d   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 2012-08-17T20:34:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/correa-says-assange-may-stay-in-ecuador-embassy-indefinitely-2-.html
Ecuadorean President  Rafael Correa 
said he doesn’t expect the U.K. to allow WikiLeaks’ founder
Julian Assange to leave  Ecuador ’s embassy in London after the
South American nation granted him asylum yesterday.  “The problem is that they aren’t going to give safe
passage,” Correa said today in an interview on local radio
channel, Radio Loja. “Julian Assange could stay indefinitely in
our embassy.”  Assange, 41, sought asylum at the embassy on June 19 after
exhausting options in U.K. courts to avert extradition to
 Sweden , where the Australian citizen faces questioning on
allegations of rape and sexual molestation. With the granting of
asylum, the U.K. and Ecuador have reached a standoff in an issue
that has strained bilateral relations and raised questions about
the principles of international law, said Diego Moya-Ocampos, a
London-based analyst at IHS Global Insight.  “A stalemate has been reached with the U.K. committed to
arresting and extraditing Assange to Sweden, and the Ecuadorian
authorities remaining defiant,” Moya-Ocampos said by e-mail
today. “A prolonged refusal by the U.K. to grant safe passage,
something that seems highly likely, could be controversial as it
could be interpreted as setting an international precedent.”  The U.K. government has denied allegations by Ecuador that
it may storm the embassy, while stating that it won’t allow
Assange to travel to  South America .  Diplomatic Asylum  Assange requested asylum to avoid what he says are U.S.
efforts to punish him for leaking diplomatic and military cables
on the Internet. Still, the U.S. has not charged Assange or
sought his extradition from the U.K. or Sweden.  The absence of any political charges led Ecuador to grant
the head of WikiLeaks “diplomatic” asylum, a legal instrument
common in the Americas, though not recognized by the U.K. The
Vienna Convention stipulates that nations are obliged to offer
free passage to people with political asylum, without mentioning
diplomatic asylum, said Robert Sloane, professor of
international law at  Boston University . The two sides may seek
international arbitration to resolve the standoff, he said.  “This is a question of law that could be submitted to the
 International Court of Justice ,” Sloane said in a telephone
interview from  Boston . “It would be a good option in the sense
that it would allow each country to save face because each of
them could simply say, ‘whatever the outcome, we’re complying
with the judicial judgment.’”  International Support  Ecuador is seeking to generate international support to
pressure the U.K. to grant the Australian anti-secrecy advocate
safe passage. The Andean country said yesterday the Union of
South American Nations called an emergency meeting to discuss
U.K. “threats” to seize Assange from the embassy.  The 12-nation group, known as Unasur, will hold a meeting
of foreign ministers on Aug. 19 in the Ecuadorean coastal city
of Guayaquil, according to a statement published in Ecuador’s
presidential gazette.  Ecuadorean Foreign Minister Ricardo Patino has also
requested an emergency meeting of the Washington-based
 Organization of American States  as well as the Venezuelan-led
group of nations known as ALBA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nathan Gill  in  Quito  at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net ;
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 