-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Drop to New 3-Month Low on Economic Data
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-08-17T20:48:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/credit-swaps-in-u-s-hold-at-3-month-low-before-economic-data.html
A gauge of U.S. company debt risk
declined to a three-month low after data showed an index of
leading economic indicators rose more than forecast and  consumer
confidence  unexpectedly climbed.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
company debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 1.5
basis points to a mid-price of 99.7 basis points at 4:23 p.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
lowest since the measure closed at 98.8 basis points on May 4.  Signs of improvement in an economy where the  unemployment 
rate has been more than 8 percent for 42 months may ease
investor concern that a global slowdown will taint corporate
balance sheets and undermine companies’ ability to repay debt.
The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next three
to six months rose 0.4 percent in July, while a separate report
showed consumer confidence rose to the highest level since May.  “The end-all, be-all is that we’re not in this alone, and
we really have to be very cognizant of what’s going on away from
us,” Robert Grimm, a trader at broker-dealer Odeon Capital
Group LLC in Greenwich,  Connecticut , said in a telephone
interview. “We know  Europe  is in a recession,” he said. “If
they can do more things that will stimulate their economies then
I think ours will continue to do better.”  Consumer Sentiment  Economists had called for a 0.2 percent increase on the
index of the leading economic indicators, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary August index of
consumer  sentiment  increased to 73.6 from 72.3 in July.  Data earlier this week showed  retail sales  rose for the
first time in four months and building  permits , a proxy for
future construction, rose to the highest since August 2008.  In  London , the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings decreased 0.7 basis point to a
mid-price of 144.5 basis points, Bloomberg prices show.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is considering easing the
terms of  Greece ’s bailout, according to lawmakers Klaus-Peter Willsch and  Frank Schaeffler . Greece’s international creditors
are scheduled to report on the nation’s progress in meeting
bailout targets next month.  ‘Major Disappointment’  “There’s really a building momentum that Europe is
actually going to have something extremely positive to say
toward this whole mess,” Grimm said. “My gut would be that
we’re building ourselves up for a major disappointment. There is
no way that Greece can pay off the debt that they have.”  The default premium on the Markit CDX North America High
Yield Index, a measure of U.S. speculative-grade corporate debt
risk, fell 6 basis points to a mid-price of 540.6 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  The number of global corporate defaults this year rose to
52 after  Standard & Poor’s  gave Swedish-based bus operator
Nobina AB a selective default rating, the New York-based firm
said today in a statement. Twenty-eight of those defaults were
based in the U.S.  Credit-default swaps typically fall as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  