-- Cricket Australia Engages Biggest Governance Reform in 107 Years
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-17T07:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/cricket-australia-engages-biggest-governance-reform-in-107-years.html
Cricket  Australia  will appoint three
independent directors to a streamlined board in what it said was
the biggest restructure in the governing body’s 107-year history.  The 14-member board will be cut to nine, with six other
directors coming from Australia’s state associations. The new
board will meet for the first time on Oct. 26, Melbourne-based
Cricket Australia said in a  statement  after today’s
extraordinary general meeting.  “Australian cricket needs a governance that the modern
sport deserves as a highly professional, major player in the
global sport and entertainment arena,” said Cricket Australia
Chairman Wally Edwards, who will be one of the state-appointed
directors alongside John Bannon, Earl Eddings, Harry Harinath,
Michael Kasprowicz and Tony Harrison.  The reforms come after former Australian Football League
commissioner Colin Carter and David Crawford were asked to
recommend changes to modernize an organization that was founded
in 1905. Australia’s national squad set up was revamped last
year following a performance review after it slipped from first
to fifth in the  International Cricket Council ’s Test rankings.
The team has since rebounded to the No. 2 spot.  It’s no longer appropriate for Cricket Australia to act as
a collection of state bodies, Edwards said.  “We are increasingly thinking and acting as one unified
national sport facing increasing competition for the public’s
attention and support,” he said.  A nominations committee including Edwards, South Australian
Cricket Association President Ian McLachlan, and ex- BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  Chairman Don Argus will identify and recommend three
independent directors to join the board, Cricket Australia said.  “The time has come to cut the size of the CA board and to
bring in outside directors,” McLachlan, a former Australian
defense minister, said in a  statement . “The tenure of debate
has been sophisticated and extremely positive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  