-- ‘Born-to-Fail’ Cruzeiro Buyback Offer Deepening Bond Selloff
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2012-08-17T18:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/cruzeiro-bonds-sink-below-40-cents-on-concern-buyback-will-flop.html
Banco Cruzeiro do Sul SA’s benchmark
dollar bonds plunged to a record low as concern mounted that
creditors will reject a repurchase offer for $1.6 billion of
notes, pushing the Brazilian lender toward liquidation after its
takeover by regulators.  The bank’s $400 million of bonds due 2016 sank 11.2 cents
to 39.6 cents on the dollar at 2:27 p.m. in  Sao Paulo , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its $250 million of securities
due 2015 sank 12.2 cents to 37.77 cents on the dollar.  Brazil ’s deposit insurance fund, which has overseen the Sao
Paulo-based payroll lender since the central bank uncovered
financial violations in June, offered Aug. 15 to buy back the
bonds at discounted prices as part of a recapitalization plan.
At least 90 percent of bondholders must accept the offer for it
to proceed, according to the fund, known as the FGC. Cruzeiro
will be liquidated if the offer fails, Antonio Carlos Bueno, the
head of the FGC, said at an Aug. 14 press conference.  “Born-to-fail, ludicrous, absurd were a few of the
adjectives used by investors to describe Cruzeiro’s
restructuring proposal,” BCP Securities analysts Jim Harper and
Jansen Moura wrote in a research note today. “Cruzeiro’s
liquidation is now the most likely scenario as it would be
practically impossible to get 90 percent of bondholders on
board.”  The average discount that Cruzeiro’s local and
international creditors are being asked to accept is 49 percent,
according to the FGC. Bank of America Corp. and HSBC Holdings
Plc are arranging the bond-repurchase offer. Creditors have
until Sept. 12 to tender their bonds.  Moody’s Investors Service cut the bank three levels
yesterday to Ca, the second-lowest rank.  “The probability of liquidation of the bank is increasing
every day,” Luiz Campos, an emerging-market portfolio manager
at Dinosaur Securities LLC, said in a telephone interview from
Sao Paulo. “The FGC proposal isn’t welcomed by bondholders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Korby in  New York  at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  