-- Deutsche Bank’s Hoffman Said to Depart for Brigade Hedge Fund
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-08-17T14:53:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/deutsche-bank-s-hoffman-said-to-depart-for-brigade-hedge-fund.html
Brigade Capital Management LLC, a
hedge fund that invests in credit markets, hired distressed-debt
analyst Scott Hoffman from  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  as the biggest banks
reduce pay and curb risk-taking in response to new regulations.  Hoffman joined Brigade in New York this month, according to
two people familiar with the move who asked not to be named
because it hasn’t been announced. Hoffman is no longer
registered with Deutsche Bank’s New York office, according to
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority  records .  Deutsche Bank said last month it would rely more heavily on
a reduction in risk-weighted assets to meet a capital goal for
the beginning of 2013 after second-quarter profit fell about 42
percent, missing analysts’ estimates. As they respond to rules
from  U.S. Congress  to the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , primary dealers have cut  inventories  of corporate
securities by 82 percent since a 2007 peak to $42.5 billion as
of Aug. 8, Federal Reserve data show.  Hoffman, who didn’t return a call or a message to his
Brigade e-mail address seeking comment, left Germany’s biggest
bank amid last month’s departures of Antoine Cornut, who headed
flow-credit trading in the Americas and  Europe , and Tom Higbie,
a credit analyst who went to hedge fund Solus Alternative Asset
Management LP. Hoffman joined Deutsche Bank in 2009 after
working at Citadel Investment Group and Credit Suisse First
Boston Corp., Finra records show.  Pay Caps  Aaron Daniels, a lawyer at Brigade, and  Amanda Williams , a
Deutsche Bank spokeswoman, declined to comment.  At least 10 credit traders have left Deutsche Bank’s New
York credit dealer since the beginning of 2011 as the lender
limited cash bonuses. They were capped last year at 100,000
euros ($123,280) at Deutsche Bank, 65,000 pounds ($102,122) at
U.K. lender Barclays Plc, and $125,000 at Morgan Stanley in New
York, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. For some at
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America Corp., cash
bonuses were limited to $150,000.  Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank is the third most-active
underwriter of corporate bonds worldwide this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  