-- Diamond Censured Over Evidence in Barclays Libor Probe
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-08-18T13:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/diamond-censured-over-selective-evidence-in-barclays-libor-probe.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  ex-Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Diamond  was criticized for giving “unforthcoming
and highly selective” evidence by a U.K. parliamentary report
that faulted the bank for letting traders rig interest rates.  The “candor and frankness” of Diamond’s testimony to
lawmakers on July 4 “fell well short of the standard that
Parliament expects,” the House of Commons Treasury Committee
said in a 122-page  report  today following its inquiry into the
bank’s attempts to manipulate the London interbank offered rate.  “The Barclays board has presided over a deeply flawed
culture,” the panel of British lawmakers said. “Senior
 management  should have known earlier and acted earlier.”  Barclays was fined a record 290 million pounds ($455
million) in June for attempting to manipulate Libor. The fine,
coupled with criticism from regulators, triggered the
resignations of Diamond, Chairman Marcus Agius and Chief
Operating Officer Jerry del Missier. At least a dozen firms
worldwide are still being probed over alleged rate-rigging.  Barclays’s compliance department was told three times about
concerns over Libor, yet these warnings weren’t passed on to
senior management, the committee said. Compliance at the bank
was “persistently ineffective,” it said. The actions of
Barclays and other traders were “disgraceful” and harmed the
reputation of the bank and the industry, the panel said.  Barclays  shares  fell 16 percent the day after the bank was
fined and have since pared their loss to 1.6 percent. The
London-based lender is the third-worst  performer  in the six-
member  FTSE 350 Banks Index (F3BANK)  after gaining 9.5 percent this year.  ‘Systematically’ Rigged  U.K. and U.S. regulators found Barclays “systematically”
attempted to rig the London and euro interbank offered rates for
profit. Libor, determined by 18 banks’ daily estimates of how
much it would cost them to borrow from one another for different
time frames and in different currencies, is the benchmark for
more than $360 trillion of securities worldwide.  Treasury Committee Chairman  Andrew Tyrie  is leading a
separate panel of lawmakers that is developing further proposals
to regulate the industry by December. Martin Wheatley, the
managing director of the Financial Services Authority, is also
conducting a review of how Libor is regulated.  Diamond, 61, told the lawmakers on July 4 that 14 traders
out of 2,000 were responsible for Libor manipulation.  Their actions were only possible “if the management of the
bank turned a blind eye to the culture of the trading floor,”
the panel said. “The incentives and control systems of Barclays
were so defective that they incentivized traders to benefit
their own book irrespective of the impact on shareholders and
the bank’s overall  performance .”  ‘Stretches Credulity’  Diamond said in a statement he was “disappointed” by the
report and “strongly” disagrees with several of its
conclusions.  “I answered every question that was put to me truthfully,
candidly and based on information available to me,” Diamond
said in the statement. “I categorically refute any suggestion
to the contrary.”  Barclays will carefully consider the report, spokesman
James Cooke said in statement sent by e-mail today.  “While we don’t expect to agree with every finding in it,
we recognize that change is required, not lest to restore
stakeholder trust,” Barclays said in the statement.  Diamond told lawmakers other banks were lowballing their
Libor submissions to conceal their difficulties in obtaining
funding, and that Barclays had repeatedly warned regulators.  “It stretches credibility to suggest that Barclays was
trying to alert regulators to inconsistencies in the Libor
submissions of other banks yet had no idea about the repeated
lowballing of its own submission,” the lawmakers said. “We
have found no evidence that the board of Barclays sought to
conduct an investigation.”  ‘Top End’  Barclays also released notes the bank said Diamond wrote
following an Oct. 29, 2008, phone conversation he had with  Paul Tucker , now deputy governor of the  Bank of England . Tucker
called Diamond to inform the banker that “senior” Whitehall
officials had asked why Barclays’s Libor submissions were always
at the “top end,” according to the note.  Diamond, Del Missier and Agius were all questioned on
whether Barclays submitted artificially reduced rates on the
instructions of the central bank. Diamond said Tucker didn’t
direct him in the conversation to lower the firm’s submissions
in 2008 and he gave no instruction to his employees. Del Missier
said Diamond had told him to deliver lower rates and blamed
compliance managers for failing to act.  ‘Smokescreen’  “If Tucker, Diamond and del Missier are to be believed, an
extraordinary, but conceivably plausible, series of
misunderstandings and miscommunications occurred,” the
lawmakers said. “The evidence that they separately gave
describes a combination of circumstances which would excuse all
the participants from the charge of deliberate wrongdoing.”  The lawmakers said in the report that the Tucker-Diamond
discussion may have been a “smokescreen put up to distract our
attention.”  The lawmakers rejected Diamond’s account of a board meeting
on Feb. 9 in which  Andrew Bailey , the FSA’s then head of banking
supervision, warned Barclays about its behavior.  “There was a perception in the market and amongst some
regulators that Barclays was not all that it should be,” the
Barclays board minutes noted, according to the report. “At
lower levels in the organization there was a desire to engineer
solutions rather than find real answers to regulatory issues.”  FSA Criticized  Diamond told lawmakers that Bailey had said he was
“specifically happy” with the “tone at the top” at the bank.  “The fact that the Barclays board discussed the need to
get the ‘tone from the top’ right, and how important this was to
Barclays, after Bailey left the board meeting, suggests that the
Barclays board did appreciate his message,” the lawmakers said.
“This appreciation was lacking in Diamond’s evidence. We do not
accept Diamond’s evidence on this point.”  The parliamentarians also criticized the FSA for failures
in its oversight of Barclays as well as its handling of
Diamond’s resignation.  “The committee is concerned that the FSA was two years
behind the U.S. regulatory authorities in initiating its formal
Libor investigations,” the lawmakers said. “This delay has
contributed to the perceived weakness of  London  in regulating
financial markets.”  “The FSA has already put in place a number of reforms in
recent years including a tougher fines policy for enforcement
cases and a completely new model of bank supervision,” Liam Parker, an FSA spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “We
will study the report’s findings and Martin Wheatley will
consider it as part of his Libor review.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Howard Mustoe at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net  