-- ECB May Upset Markets With Small Bond Buys, Daiwa Says
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-08-17T16:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/ecb-may-upset-markets-with-small-bond-buys-daiwa-says.html
The  European Central Bank  may
disappoint investors by limiting the size of potential bond
purchases and may force Spain and Italy to sign a memorandum of
understanding, according to Daiwa Capital Markets  Europe .  “Contrary to the expectations of many market participants,
we do not think the ECB will announce an interest-rate or spread
target for short-dated peripheral government bonds” and may
“announce a volume of future bond purchases instead,” London-
based Daiwa economists Tobias Blattner and Grant Lewis said in a
 note to investors  published today.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on Aug. 2 that the central
bank may buy government debt in unison with the region’s bailout
funds to address elevated yields that are “related to fears of
the reversibility of the euro.” Chancellor Angela Merkel
yesterday backed the ECB’s insistence on conditions for helping
reduce borrowing costs, saying  Germany  is “in line” with the
central bank’s approach to defending the euro.  Still, while Draghi has pledged that any intervention
“will be enough,” the Daiwa economists say that if “the past
is any guide, the ECB could aim small,” referring to the
central bank’s two covered bond-purchase programs that were
limited to 4 percent and 6 percent respectively of euro-area
outstanding covered bonds.  Daiwa reckons that if the ECB were to aim for Spanish and
Italian maturities of up to three years, mirroring the length of
the loans it pumped into the banking system, a 15 percent volume
target would result in purchases of 30 billion euros ($7
billion) of Spanish bonds and 78 billion euros of Italian debt,
reflecting the relatively longer average maturity of Italian and
Spanish  government bonds .  ‘Pale in Comparison’  A 15 percent volume target is similar in size to the U.S.
Federal Reserve’s second quantitative-easing program. Even if
the ECB were to top that by buying a third of all outstanding
Spanish and Italian government bonds with a residual maturity of
less than five years, the 340 billion-euro bill would “pale in
comparison” with the ECB’s 1 trillion-euro longer-term loans,
according to the report.  The central bank is reluctant to opt for a spread target,
because the “the potentially unlimited bond purchases such a
move could imply are, in the ECB’s opinion, simply not
compatible with the prohibition of monetary financing of
government debt in the EU Treaty,” Daiwa said.  To further ensure that countries don’t deviate from the
path of revamping their economies, “the ECB might require a
separate memorandum of understanding between itself and the
country concerned, underpinning the conditional nature of its
bond purchases,” Daiwa said.  For  Italy , that may prove too much, the report said, as
“with most Italian political parties already positioning
themselves for elections in April next year, they are unlikely
to want to pre-commit to yet more austerity and structural
reforms, which would likely prove an electoral liability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  