-- ECB Buying May Push Spanish Yields to 2%, HSBC’s Major Says
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-08-17T10:48:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/ecb-buying-may-push-spanish-note-yields-to-2-hsbc-s-major-says.html
The  European Central Bank  may push
the Spanish two-year note yield to as low as 2 percent through
its bond-purchase program, said  Steven Major , head of fixed-
income research at HSBC Holdings Plc in London.  “Two percent would be reasonable for a two-year Spanish
bond if the ECB decides it should go there,” he said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” with  Maryam Nemazee . “It’s all about getting those front-end yields stapled
to the floor,” he said, referring to shorter-maturity debt.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on Aug. 2 that the central
bank may buy government debt in unison with the region’s bailout
funds to address elevated yields that are “related to fears of
the reversibility of the euro.” Chancellor Angela Merkel
yesterday backed the ECB’s insistence on conditions for helping
reduce borrowing costs, saying  Germany  is “in line” with the
central bank’s approach to defending the euro.  Spain’s two-year note yield dropped 24 basis points, or
0.24 percentage point, to 3.75 percent at 11:45 a.m. London
time. The rate is down from a euro-era record of 7.15 percent on
July 25, having surged earlier this year amid concern funding
needs for the nation’s banks would overwhelm government finances
without external aid. The 10-year bond yield dropped eight basis
points to 6.44 percent, the lowest since July 4.  ‘Serious’ Threat  The threat of central bank intervention in the  bond market 
is “serious,” Major said today. “One of the big trades for
the rest of this year will be the short-dated periphery,” he
said. “People are frightened to hear this kind of thing but the
chances are that Spanish bond yields will be nearer to 2 than 6
percent in the coming months based on the fact that the ECB is
asked to intervene.”  Negative yields on two-year German notes are unjustified
and investors should bet against the securities, Major said. The
 two-year rate  was at minus 0.033 percent today, below zero for
the 31st straight day.  “The flip side of what is happening in Spain and Italy is
really what will happen to Germany,” he said. “Underweighting
bunds is also one of the big trades,” he said, referring to a
position in which fewer of the securities are held than in the
indexes used to monitor a fund’s performance.  Spanish debt handed investors a loss of 3.3 percent this
year through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. German  government bonds  returned 2.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  