-- Heineken Said in Talks With F&N to Raise APB Bid
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h ,   E l f f i e   C h e w   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-08-17T08:34:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/heineken-said-to-be-in-talks-with-f-n-on-higher-offer-for-apb.html
Heineken NV (HEIA)  is in talks with  Fraser
& Neave Ltd. (FNN)  about raising its $6 billion bid for the rest of
 Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd. (APB) , the maker of Tiger beer, said three
people with knowledge of the matter.  It wasn’t immediately clear how much Heineken would boost
its S$50 ($40) per share bid for APB, said two of the people,
who asked not to be identified as the process is private.
Kindest Place Groups, owned by the son-in-law of Thai
billionaire  Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi , has offered to buy 7.3
percent of APB from F&N for S$55 per share.  F&N owns 40 percent of APB while Heineken, the world’s
third-biggest brewer, holds a 42 percent stake. The Dutch brewer
has sought full control of the Tiger beer maker as it attempts
to protect its hold over a key emerging-market business and as
brewing assets in high-growth economies are in short supply
after a decade of consolidation in the industry.  “At the end of the day, the F&N board needs to decide
whether selling everything for S$50 is a better outcome for
shareholders than selling 7.3 percent for S$55,” said Jonathan Foster, Singapore-based director of Global Special Situations at
Religare Capital Markets. “It just depends on how that
negotiation goes between Heineken and the F&N board, and how
tough Heineken is able to play it.”  Asian Expansion  APB and F&N were both suspended from trading in Singapore
today. Charoen’s  Thai Beverage Pcl (THBEV)  is unchanged at 33.5
Singapore cents as of 3:57 p.m. in the city-state, after rising
as much as 1.5 percent. Heineken shares were down 0.35 percent
to 43.64 euros at 10:23 a.m. in Amsterdam.  Heineken was spurred to make an offer for APB last month
after Charoen’s Thai Beverage Pcl bid for a 22 percent stake in
F&N. Kindest Place also agreed to buy about a 9 percent stake in
APB at that time. The moves would potentially have infringed on
the Dutch company’s influence over its brewing operations with
APB, which has rights to brew Bintang beer in  Indonesia , Anchor
in  China ,  Southeast Asia  and  Sri Lanka , and Heineken from China
to  New Zealand .  Heineken spokesman Charles Armitstead was not immediately
available for comment. Reuters reported the talks earlier today,
citing unidentified people.  The Thai company may have put in the higher bid to get
Heineken to raise its offer, Lee Syn Yi, a Singapore-based
equity analyst at CIMB-GK Pte. Charoen’s family is already
benefiting from a rise in APB’s stock. The value of Kindest
Place’s 8.6 percent stake in APB has already risen by S$124
million based on the purchase price of S$45 a share.  Overseas Expansion  Thai Bev said last month that the F&N stake will allow it
to expand its “non-alcoholic product portfolio” and to
diversify geographically. The Thai brewer could also benefit
from any dividends that F&N pays out from sale its stake in APB.  Deutsche Bank analyst Gregory Lui estimated in a July note
that a sale of APB at S$50 a share could provide F&N and its
shareholders “significant” one-time gains and special
dividends of about S$2.71 a share.  Born and raised in Bangkok’s Chinatown district, Charoen
started a trading business that supplied distilleries and became
a distiller after being awarded concessions to produce liquor in
 Thailand .  ‘Winner Both Ways’  “Thai Bev is a winner both ways,” said Jenai Chua, a
Singapore-based analyst at Bank Julius Baer in an interview
earlier this month. “If the APB sale goes through, they can
still make a pretty big disposal gain should F&N decide to
distribute proceeds of the sale to shareholders as dividend.  If
it doesn’t go through, they get a chunk of a very lucrative and
well-established beer business.”  Trevor Sterling, analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said that
Kindest Place was probably seeking to benefit financially from
any increase in Heineken’s offer, and may try to influence APB
strategy with a possible deal to cooperate in Thailand. “They
probably have flexible objectives,” he said.  Heineken, which accounts for about 8.8 percent of the
global beer market, is seeking to expand in faster-growing
regions such as Southeast Asia amid weak  consumer spending  in
the developed markets of  Europe  and the U.S. The company has the
smallest presence in  emerging markets  among the world’s top
three brewers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. About 37
percent of operating income came from western Europe last year.  A sale of its stake in APB’s brewing business, could also
draw acquisition interest in other parts of F&N, which also has
soft drink and real estate operations. Japan’s  Kirin Holdings
Co. (2503)  has said it is interested in F&N’s soft drink and food
operations.  The purchases by Thai Beverage and Kindest were completed
this week. Thai Beverage has since raised its stake in F&N to
26.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Elffie Chew in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  