-- Heineken Raises Bid for Asia Pacific Breweries
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-08-18T12:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/heineken-raises-bid-for-asian-brewer-to-s-5-6-billion.html
Heineken NV (HEIA) , the world’s third-
biggest brewer, raised its offer for a controlling stake in  Asia
Pacific Breweries Ltd. (APB)  to S$5.6 billion ($4.5 billion) to
prevent a company linked to a Thai billionaire from disrupting
its takeover plans.  The Dutch beer maker, which already owns 42 percent of
Singapore-based APB, agreed to buy Fraser & Neave Ltd.’s 40
percent holding in the brewer for S$53 per share, up from an
initial bid of S$50, according to a statement yesterday. F&N’s
board advised its shareholders to accept the offer, the company
said in a statement to the  Singapore  exchange today.  At S$53, Heineken is “trying to seal the deal,” said
 Trevor Stirling , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in London.  Heineken wants control of the Tiger beer maker to protect
its hold over a key emerging-market business and as brewing
assets in high-growth economies are in short supply after a
decade of consolidation. The brewer began taking steps to
protect its position in July after Thai billionaire  Charoen
Sirivadhanabhakdi ’s  Thai Beverage Pcl (THBEV)  bought a 22 percent stake
in F&N.  If F&N shareholders approve the sale, Heineken will offer
as much as S$2.5 billion for the remaining APB shares, the
Amsterdam-based brewer said.  F&N’s board has agreed not to solicit, engage in
discussions or accept any other offers for its interest in APB,
according to Heineken’s statement. Singapore-based F&N has also
agreed to pay a break-up fee of about S$56 million if the
transaction isn’t completed in 120 days, it said.  ‘Maximize Returns’  “The sale of F&N’s stakes in APB in its entirety to
Heineken at the improved price would better maximize overall
returns for F&N shareholders,” F&N Chairman Lee Hsien Yang said
in today’s statement. The company is considering options to
return some of the proceeds to its shareholders, it said.  Trading in APB and F&N stock will resume Aug. 21, the
companies said today. Heineken  shares  fell 1.5 percent to 43.14
euros in Amsterdam trading yesterday. They have advanced 21
percent so far this  year .  Selling the stake in APB’s brewing business could draw
interest from buyers in other parts of F&N, which also has soft-
drink and real-estate operations. Japan’s Kirin Holdings Co.,
which has a 15 percent stake in the Singaporean company, has
said it is interested in F&N’s soft-drink and food businesses.
Coca-Cola Co. has explored a bid for the drinks operations,
several people with knowledge of the matter have said.  Heineken will not increase its final offer, which it
believes provides “compelling value” to both F&N and APB
shareholders, the company said in its statement. Its Asian
headquarters will remain in Singapore and it is committed to
growing the Tiger brand, Heineken said.  ’Large Multiple’  “They’re paying a large multiple for a business where 30
percent of the volume and 40 percent of profit is from their own
brand,” said  Pablo Zuanic , an analyst at Liberum Capital Inc.
in  New York , referring to the S$53 price before the agreement
was announced. He rates the shares hold.  Heineken was spurred to make an offer for Asia Pacific
Breweries last month after Thai Beverage agreed to buy a 22
percent stake in F&N. That holding has now risen to  26 percent .
Kindest Place Groups Ltd., owned by Sirivadhanabhakdi’s son-in-
law, this month bought an 8.6 percent stake in APB and
subsequently offered to buy 7.3 percent of the brewer from F&N
for S$55 per share.  Beer Empire  The moves would potentially have infringed on the Dutch
company’s influence over its brewing operations with APB, which
has rights to brew Bintang beer in  Indonesia , Anchor in  China ,
 Southeast Asia  and  Sri Lanka , and Heineken from China to  New
Zealand . The deal would be the company’s largest after offering
$7.4 billion in 2010 for the beer operations of Coca-Cola Co.’s
bottler  Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB (FEMSAUB) , or Femsa.  Heineken, which controls about 8.8 percent of the global
beer market, is seeking to expand in faster-growing regions such
as Southeast Asia amid weak  consumer spending  in the developed
markets of  Europe  and the U.S. The company has the smallest
 emerging-markets  presence of the world’s big three brewers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. About 37 percent of
 operating income  came from western Europe last year.  For Heineken, buying APB “strategically makes sense,”
said Samar Chand, an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in London. “It
gives them control and ensures that adequate investment will go
into their brands, throughout the region.”  The world’s biggest brewers are trying to secure emerging-
market assets and seal joint ventures across the globe.
Heineken’s offer comes on the heels of  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) ’s
purchase of the rest of its Mexican partner, Grupo Modelo SAB,
for about $20 billion.  Consolidators  “ABI and SABMiller have been the consolidators and
Heineken’s approach was to take minority stakes and sell its
brand through them,” said Zuanic. “They’ve been forced to join
the consolidation bandwagon.”  The danger of failing to secure control over assets was
illustrated this year when Heineken lost out to AB InBev over
Cerveceria Nacional Dominicana of the Dominican Republic, the
brewer of Presidente beer. Heineken held a 9.3 percent stake in
the company, which AB InBev acquired for about $1.24 billion.  If Heineken failed to win control of APB, “the market and
investors may be disappointed that Heineken has missed out yet
again on another fast-growing, emerging-market asset because of
its perceived conservative M&A strategy,” said Chand at
Barclays.  There were 194 mergers and acquisitions of brewers in Asian
emerging markets over the past decade, with a total value of $17
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Japanese
buyers were the most active, led by Kirin’s $1.37 billion
acquisition of a 43 percent stake in  San Miguel Brewery Inc. (SMB)  in
2009, the data show.  Thai Bev said last month that the F&N stake will allow it
to expand its “non-alcoholic product portfolio” and to
diversify geographically. The Thai brewer could also benefit
from any dividends that F&N pays out from the sale of its stake
in APB.  Credit Suisse Group AG and Citigroup Inc. were financial
advisers for Heineken and will also arrange a bridge facility to
help fund the proposed transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  