-- Heineken Said to Mull APB Bid Hike to About S$53 a Share
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-08-17T10:45:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/heineken-said-to-consider-raising-apb-bid-to-about-s-53-a-share.html
Heineken NV (HEIA) , the world’s third-
largest brewer, is in talks with Fraser & Neave Ltd. about
raising its offer for the rest of  Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd. (APB) ,
said three people with knowledge of the matter.  Heineken is considering boosting its offer to about S$53
($42) a share from S$50 per share for APB, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the talks are private. An
announcement may come as early as today, three people said. A
condition for a higher bid may include guarantees over deal
completion. Kindest Place Groups, owned by the son-in-law of
Thai billionaire  Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi , has offered to buy
7.3 percent of APB from F&N for S$55 per share.  F&N owns 40 percent of APB, while Amsterdam-based Heineken 
holds a 42 percent stake. The Dutch brewer has sought full 
control of the Tiger beer maker as it attempts to protect its 
hold over a key emerging-market business and as brewing assets 
in high-growth economies are in short supply after a decade of 
consolidation in the industry.  If $S53 is Heineken’s final offer, “they are basically
trying to seal the deal with this,” said Trevor Sterling,
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein.  Asian Expansion  Singapore-based APB and F&N were both suspended from trading 
there today. Charoen’s  Thai Beverage Pcl (THBEV)  is unchanged at 33.5
Singapore cents as of 3:57 p.m. in the city-state, after rising
as much as 1.5 percent. Heineken shares were down 1.23 percent
to 43.25 euros at 12:44 a.m. in Amsterdam.  Heineken was spurred to make an offer for APB last month
after Charoen’s Thai Beverage Pcl bid for a 22 percent stake in
F&N. Kindest Place also agreed to buy about a 9 percent stake in
APB at that time. The moves would potentially have infringed on
the Dutch company’s influence over its brewing operations with
APB, which has rights to brew Bintang beer in  Indonesia , Anchor
in  China ,  Southeast Asia  and  Sri Lanka , and Heineken from China
to  New Zealand .  Heineken spokesman  John Clarke  referred to a previous
company statement that discussions with F&N were continuing.
Reuters reported the talks earlier today, citing unidentified
people.  The Thai company may have put in the higher bid to get
Heineken to raise its offer, Lee Syn Yi, a Singapore-based
equity analyst at CIMB-GK Pte. Charoen’s family is already
benefiting from a rise in APB’s stock. The value of Kindest
Place’s 8.6 percent stake in APB has already risen by S$124
million based on the purchase price of S$45 a share.  Overseas Expansion  Thai Bev said last month that the F&N stake will allow it
to expand its “non-alcoholic product portfolio” and to
diversify geographically. The Thai brewer could also benefit
from any dividends that F&N pays out from sale its stake in APB.  Deutsche Bank analyst Gregory Lui estimated in a July note
that a sale of APB at S$50 a share could provide F&N and its
shareholders “significant” one-time gains and special
dividends of about S$2.71 a share.  Born and raised in Bangkok’s Chinatown district, Charoen
started a trading business that supplied distilleries and became
a distiller after being awarded concessions to produce liquor in
 Thailand .  ‘Winner Both Ways’  “Thai Bev is a winner both ways,” said Jenai Chua, a
Singapore-based analyst at Bank Julius Baer in an interview
earlier this month. “If the APB sale goes through, they can
still make a pretty big disposal gain should F&N decide to
distribute proceeds of the sale to shareholders as dividend.  If
it doesn’t go through, they get a chunk of a very lucrative and
well-established beer business.”  Stirling said that Kindest Place was probably seeking to
benefit financially from any increase in Heineken’s offer, and
may try to influence APB strategy with a possible deal to
cooperate in Thailand. “They probably have flexible
objectives,” he said.  Thai Bev will focus on “long-term business” with F&N,
Vichate Tantiwanich, a senior vice president at Thai Bev said
via e-mail today.  Faster-Growing Regions  Heineken, which accounts for about 8.8 percent of the
global beer market, is seeking to expand in faster-growing
regions such as Southeast Asia amid weak  consumer spending  in
the developed markets of  Europe  and the U.S. The company has the
smallest presence in  emerging markets  among the world’s top
three brewers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. About 37
percent of operating income came from western Europe last year.  A sale of its stake in APB’s brewing business, could also
draw acquisition interest in other parts of F&N, which also has
soft drink and real estate operations.  Japan ’s  Kirin Holdings
Co. (2503)  has said it is interested in F&N’s soft drink and food
operations.  The purchases by Thai Beverage and Kindest were completed
this week. Thai Beverage has since raised its stake in F&N to
26.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  