-- Emerging Stocks Fall, Post First Weekly Drop in Five
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-08-17T21:55:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/emerging-stocks-fall-head-for-first-weekly-drop-in-five.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, with
the benchmark  index (VXEEM)  posting its first weekly decline in five, as
concern that a slowdown in corporate sales growth outweighed
signs that the  U.S. economy  is improving.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index lost 0.5 percent to 971.05,
extending its weekly slide to 0.8 percent.  Brazil ’s Bovespa
index retreated for the first time in three days, with airline
Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA leading the decline.  South
Korea ’s Kospi index slid 0.6 percent, dragged down by a slump in
Samsung Electronics Co., the nation’s largest exporter. Russia’s
Micex index and  South Africa ’s  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH) 
dropped 0.5 percent.  Revenue growth  in emerging markets has fallen to 8.5
percent for companies reporting from May 16 to Aug. 15 from 9.6
percent in the first quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Taiwan cut its growth forecast for 2012, putting
pressure on policy makers to support growth. The index of U.S.
leading economic indicators climbed more than forecast in July,
a sign of sustained expansion in the world’s largest economy.  “There’s been disappointment in growth in some of the
biggest emerging economies,” Gavin Redknap, an emerging markets
strategist at Nikko Asset Management, said by phone from  London 
today. “But we have seen policy responses in a number of places
and that will be good cyclically for the global economy going
forward.”  EM ETF Retreats  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, fell 0.5
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, declined 3.8 percent to 20.79, the
lowest in four months.  The Bovespa fell 0.6 percent, with Gol losing 4.5 percent.
CCR SA, a Brazilian toll road operator, dropped 4.4 percent.  The Conference Board’s index of the outlook for the next
three to six months increased 0.4 percent after a revised 0.4
percent drop in June, the New York-based group said today.
Economists projected the gauge would rise by 0.2 percent,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Germany 
signaled its support for a European Central Bank plan to resolve
the debt crisis.  Market Valuation  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  has gained 6 percent this
year, compared with a 9.1 percent increase in the MSCI World
Index. The emerging-markets measure trades at 10.8 times
estimated earnings, compared with 13.1 for the developed-nations
measure, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  South Africa’s benchmark index declined the most since July
31 and the rand tumbled 1.6 percent against the dollar, the
worst performer out of 25 emerging market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. Police killed 34 striking workers at Lonmin Plc’s
Marikana platinum-mining complex yesterday, the worst death toll
in police action since the end of apartheid in 1994.  The BSE India Sensitive Index  increased  0.2 percent. The
benchmark gauge posted its third consecutive week of advances,
as foreign investors increased the holdings of the nation’s
shares. The Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.1 percent.  Samsung Electronics  Samsung Electronics dropped 3.7 percent in  Seoul , the
biggest drag on the MSCI Emerging Markets Index. Samsung, a key
supplier and competitor of Apple, had rallied 23 percent from
July 12 through yesterday. Samsung rested its case in a patent-
infringement trial after putting on witnesses who said Apple
would owe the Suwon, South Korea-based company as much as $421.8
million in royalties. Apple sued Samsung in April 2011, accusing
it of copying patented designs for mobile devices such as
iPhones, and the South Korean company countersued.  Radiant Opto-Electronics Corp. (6176) , a Taiwanese liquid-crystal
display products maker, dropped 4.6 percent after BNP Paribas SA
said earnings may have peaked. BNP expects weak second-half
sales and margins on cautious demand for Apple products. Growth
for the company may slow to single digits in 2013 and onward,
the brokerage said. Radiant dropped the most this month in
Taipei.  China Resources Enterprise Ltd. (291) , the government-backed
partner of SABMiller Plc., rallied 11 percent after first-half
profit surged 37 percent and it named a new chief executive
officer.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
bonds over  U.S. Treasuries  increased 1 basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 314, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  