-- EPA Defeats Challenge to Higher Ethanol Levels in Fuel
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-08-17T17:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/epa-defeats-challenge-to-higher-ethanol-levels-in-fuel.html
A challenge to an Environmental
Protection Agency rule allowing higher concentrations of corn-
based ethanol in gasoline was thrown out by a U.S. Appeals Court
ruling that the groups pressing the case had no right to sue.  Grocery, auto and petroleum industry associations filed
suit against the agency in November 2010, saying that rules
allowing for increased used of corn-based ethanol in auto fuel
would push up the price of food and gasoline and harm engines.
The court today ruled the groups couldn’t show they had suffered
specific harm as a result of the EPA’s decisions.  “Each industry group advances a theory of standing, but
none is in fact adequate to meet the burden of establishing
standing,” Circuit Judge David Sentelle wrote in the 17-page
opinion filed in  Washington .  The Grocery Manufacturers Association, the  American
Petroleum Institute  and groups representing companies including
 Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , challenged two EPA decisions
that allowed the introduction of E15, a gasoline blended with
ethanol.  “Today’s court decision is a big loss for consumers, for
safety and for our environment,” Bob Greco, a director of the
American Petroleum Institute, which represents more than 500 oil
and natural gas companies, said in an e-mailed statement. “EPA
approved E15 before vehicle testing was complete, and we now
know that the fuel may cause significant mechanical problems in
millions of cars on the road today.”  Vehicle Warranties  Automobile manufacturers have told Congress that vehicle
warranties will not cover damage caused by E15.  Denatured ethanol for September delivery rose 0.3 cent to
$2.59 a gallon at 11:54 a.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Futures have gained 18 percent this year.  The EPA in 2010 granted a request from ethanol producers to
permit increased concentrations of the corn-based fuel in
gasoline to as much as 15 percent from 10 percent for vehicles
made for the model year 2007 and later and in January 2011
extended it for cars made after 2001.  Blends of 15 percent ethanol are referred to as E15, while
concentrations of 10 percent and 85 percent are called E10 and
E85.  Bob Dinneen, the chief executive officer of the  Renewable
Fuels Association , said in a statement that the ruling and the
introduction of higher-level ethanol blends would “help ensure
the growth and evolution of the domestic renewable fuels
industry continues.”  ‘Smooth Transition’  A spokesman for the EPA, David Bloomgren, said, “This
decision and the EPA’s previous actions do not require the use
or sale of E15. EPA will continue to work with stakeholders to
ensure a smooth transition as businesses decide whether to
introduce E15 into the market.”  Circuit Judge  Brett Kavanaugh  dissented from the three-
judge panel’s decision, saying the groups’ standing to sue was
established by the prospect of rising costs for their members.  Jerrod Kitt, the director of research for the Linn Group, a
Chicago-based researcher and broker, said he didn’t expect the
ruling to have a significant impact on corn or ethanol prices
for at least a year.  “The drought this year has seen to it that corn used to
make ethanol will be reduced,” Kitt said in a telephone
interview. “With corn prices where they are now, you are not
going to see people rush out to make E15.”  Liability Issues  The still-unresolved liability issues about using ethanol
in all cars and the investment required for new E15 gas pumps
may also limit use of E15, Kitt added.  At least 25 U.S. senators and 156 House members have signed
letters asking  Lisa Jackson , administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency, to suspend or lower mandates on how much
ethanol the country must use this year and next.  A 2007 law mandates the use of 13.2 billion gallons of
biofuels such as ethanol this year, rising to 13.6 billion in
2013. The measure is designed to help reduce the nation’s
reliance on oil from overseas sources.  The USDA on Aug. 10 predicted ethanol use in the year
starting Sept. 1 would consume 4.5 billion bushels, down from
5billion in the current year. Use for ethanol as a share of the
estimated crop would rise to 42 percent from 40 percent.  The case is Grocery Manufacturers Association v. U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, 10-1380,  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the District of Columbia Circuit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 