-- Merkel Mulls Easing Greece Bailout Terms, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-08-17T15:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/merkel-mulls-easing-greece-bailout-terms-german-lawmakers-say.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  is
considering easing  Greece ’s bailout terms, fanning tensions with
members of her coalition who oppose giving the Greek government
any more concessions, two German lawmakers said.  Merkel’s government is torn between showing some leniency
toward Greece as it struggles to meet the terms of its rescues
and insisting that Prime Minister Antonis Samaras deliver on his
promises,  Klaus-Peter Willsch  and  Frank Schaeffler , both of whom
have voted against Merkel’s euro crisis policies in parliament,
said in separate telephone interviews.  “The sensitivities among many more than just the 27
coalition members who voted ‘no’ last time are well known” to
Merkel, “so the official line is to stay tough” on Greece,
said Willsch, a member of Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union
party. “But at the same time, some are being sent forward to
test the waters on how this tough line can be abandoned.”  Almost three years after the debt crisis erupted in Greece,
Samaras’s government is awaiting a report by its international
creditors next month on progress made in meeting bailout goals,
an assessment that will determine whether Greece receives the
next instalment of aid it needs to stay in the euro. Samaras,
whose governing coalition in  Athens  wants its fiscal adjustment
program to be extended by two years to the end of 2016, is due
to visit Berlin on Aug. 24 for talks with Merkel.  Samaras Compromise  While it’s too early to rule out that an example will be
made of Greece if it fails to adhere to the program terms,
Merkel will probably seek a compromise with Samaras that would
allow both sides to save face, Schaeffler, a Free Democratic
Party lawmaker, said in a telephone interview. The example
offered by  Spain  shows that bailout terms are flexible, he said.  “We’re seeing the softening already in the case of Spain,
which was given a ‘bailout deluxe’ rather than a full-fledged
program,” Schaeffler said yesterday. “And since Spain will
need more money, that program will also be softer than that of
the others,” possibly triggering re-negotiation demands in
Ireland and  Portugal .  Neither Willsch nor Schaeffler mentioned any specific
proposals being considered by the chancellery.  Norbert Barthle ,
CDU budget spokesman in parliament, said in a July 25 interview
that Greece may need a second debt restructuring to stay in the
17-nation euro region.  Conflicting Signals  German officials have sent conflicting signals on Greece in
the past month as the so-called troika of the  European Central
Bank , the European Commission and the  International Monetary
Fund  assesses Greek progress.  “If the troika says the situation there is not in order,
then there can be no money,”  Michael Fuchs , a deputy CDU
parliamentary leader, told reporters in Berlin today. “Greece
must stick to its agreements. It’s as simple as that.”  That contrasts with Michael Meister, another CDU deputy
leader, who said in an Aug. 7 interview that  Germany  has “a
certain flexibility” toward Greece. Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle , of Merkel’s FDP coalition partner, told this week’s
Spiegel magazine that time lost during two election campaigns in
Greece must be taken into account in any easing of rescue terms.  “Everything can be put on the table,” Steffen Seibert,
chief German government spokesman, told reporters on Aug. 15,
referring to Merkel’s meeting with Samaras next week. All agree
that a third Greek bailout would have trouble gaining approval
in the lower house, or Bundestag.  Merkel ‘Committed’  Merkel, speaking in  Canada  yesterday, said that euro-area
policy makers “feel committed to do everything we can to
maintain the common currency.”  Easing Greece’s bailout terms would make it difficult for
Germany to maintain pressure on countries to carry out the
reforms Germany sees as necessary, Willsch and Schaeffler said.
A Greek default would be manageable and “could be an example
for the others to see what can happen if the treaties are
violated,” Willsch said.  Both Willsch and Schaeffler have consistently refused to
back Merkel’s line on the euro crisis. They voted against the
temporary euro-area rescue fund, its permanent replacement and
Greece’s second bailout in separate Bundestag votes.  “As long as the government isn’t ready to question the
composition of the  euro zone , there is no other choice” than to
save Greece, said Willsch. “That, at the same time, is the
source of the failure of these rescue policies. If you impose
conditions, monitor them, realize they’ve been violated and shy
away from drawing the consequences, you have a blunt sword.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  