-- EU Shouldn’t Intervene in CO2 Market, German Minister Says
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-08-17T13:48:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/eu-shouldn-t-intervene-in-carbon-market-german-minister-says.html
The European Union should avoid
actions aimed at boosting carbon prices,  Germany ’s economy
minister said, highlighting the political controversy over a
plan by EU regulators to strengthen the bloc’s emissions market.  “Prices should be established by the market,” Philipp Roesler told a press conference in Warsaw. “Some don’t like it,
some say that prices are too low, but artificial boosting of
those prices is in our view absolutely inappropriate and those
mechanisms should be left to the market.”  His comments followed a proposal last month by the European
Commission to amend EU legislation to clarify the right of the
bloc’s regulator to delay some auctions of carbon permits as of
2013 to curb oversupply. That would help support prices in the
world’s biggest emissions trading system after they slumped to a
record earlier this year.  “It’s not the politicians’ task to interfere with the
system,” Roesler said.  The German government seeks to agree by the end of next
month on a joint position in response to the commission
proposal, Environment Minister Peter Altmaier said in a document
released yesterday. Rebuilding the “stimulus function” of the
EU carbon market is key to ensuring that the cap-and-trade
system can continue to help cut pollution, he said last month.  Price Plunge  EU carbon prices have fallen 43 percent in the past 12
months as oversupply in the market has cut demand from factories
and power stations. The bloc will be oversupplied with about 1.1
billion permits by the end of the current 2008-2012 trading
period, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The surplus
can be carried over to the next phase starting in 2013.  EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said last month
she was “quite confident” that the bloc’s member states will
approve changes to the supply of carbon permits, an idea known
as backloading, before the end of this year.  The plan to curb oversupply of carbon allowances will be
carried out in two steps. In the first, national governments and
the European Parliament need to approve an amendment to the EU
law reasserting the commission’s legal right to amend the
auctioning schedule.  The second will involve a vote on a proposal to delay some
auctions in the so-called comitology procedure, where a measure
requires qualified majority support from representatives of
national governments to pass and then becomes subject to a
scrutiny by ministers and the European Parliament.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  