-- Europe Stocks Rise to 13-Month High, for 11th Weekly Gain
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-08-17T15:50:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/europe-stock-futures-rise-stoxx-600-heads-for-11th-weekly-gain.html
European stocks  advanced to a 13-
month high, rallying for the 11th successive week, amid optimism
policy makers will take steps to protect the region’s banks and
as American consumer sentiment and leading economic indicators
beat forecasts.  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN) , Switzerland’s biggest life insurer,
gained 3.1 percent after reporting first-half earnings that beat
estimates.  Bankia SA (BKIA)  climbed 4.9 percent on speculation the
Spanish lender will shortly receive bailout funds. Heineken NV
slid 1.5 percent on a report it may raise its bid for the rest
of Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd.  The Stoxx 600 climbed 0.6 percent to 272.83 at the close in
London, the highest since July 8, 2011. The benchmark measure
increased 1.1 percent this week as German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  supported a European Central Bank plan to resolve the
debt crisis.  “The Merkel comments have helped the market,” said Pierre Mouton, a  fund manager  who helps oversee $6 billion at Notz
Stucki & Cie. in Geneva. “There will be good news to come from
Europe. The market was extremely pessimistic, especially on
banks. Europe’s commitment on lending to banks shows that the
region won’t let them fail.”  The Stoxx 600 completed its 11th successive weekly gain,
the longest winning streak since January 2006. The current rally
started with Greece forming a government after a second national
election and continued as central banks increased stimulus
measures and ECB President  Mario Draghi  pledged to preserve the
euro at any cost.  German Backing  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , speaking in Canada
yesterday, backed the ECB’s insistence on conditions for helping
to reduce borrowing costs in indebted countries, saying Germany
is “in line” with the central bank’s approach to defend the
euro.  “On many of these issues we feel we’re on the right
track,” Merkel told reporters in Ottawa. Euro-area policy
makers “feel committed to do everything we can to maintain the
common currency.”  Germany is facing calls from Italy and Spain to pool debt
to bring down bond yields, from Greece to back an easing of its
austerity timetable and from the ECB for politicians to take the
lead in fighting the crisis. Merkel also faces domestic pressure
from her coalition partners to refuse any more aid for Greece.  The number of shares changing hands on the  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  was
5.9 percent higher than the average of the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. Consumers  In the U.S., the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary August index of  consumer sentiment  unexpectedly
increased to 73.6, the highest level since May, from 72.3 the
prior month. The gauge was projected to be little changed at
72.2, according to the median forecast of 72 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months increased 0.4 percent after a revised 0.4
percent drop in June, the New York-based group said today.
Economists projected the gauge would rise by 0.2 percent,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  National benchmark indexes advanced in all of the 18
western European markets except Denmark. The U.K.’s FTSE 100
Index added 0.3 percent. France’s CAC 40 Index gained 0.2
percent and Germany’s DAX Index increased 0.6 percent.  Swiss Life  Swiss Life rose 3.1 percent to 104.90 Swiss francs. The
company said first-half profit dropped 11 percent after a year-
earlier tax benefit from disposing of businesses.  Net income fell to 360 million francs ($370 million), from
403 million francs a year earlier, the  Zurich-based insurer 
said. That exceeded the 304.8 million-franc average estimate of
nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Bankia SA jumped 4.9 percent to 1.47 euros, extending its
rally in the four days through today to 44 percent. Reuters
reported yesterday that the bank will get some rescue funds
shortly. A gauge of bank shares advanced 1 percent for the
second-biggest increase among the  19 industry groups  in the
Stoxx 600.  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS) , the world’s oldest
bank, rallied 18 percent to 21.6 euro cents after comments by
Chairman  Alessandro Profumo  fueled speculation of shareholder
changes. Fondazione Monte dei Paschi, the bank’s main investor,
has to further cut its stake over time, Profumo told local
Italian TV Canale 3 Toscana yesterday. An official for
Fondazione declined to comment on Profumo’s interview.  Italy Plans  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  jumped 11 percent to 3.75 euros, the most
since February. Il Messaggero reported today that the Italian
government is considering a plan to sell stakes in  Eni SpA (ENI) ,  Enel
SpA (ENEL)  and Finmeccanica for a total value of about 25 billion euros
($31 billion), without losing control of the companies, as part
of plan to cut public debt.  Enel advanced 1.3 percent to 2.57 euros.  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group, Europe’s biggest airline, rallied 3.7
percent to 4.41 euros. The carrier’s biggest pilot union voted
to back a  management  plan that will reduce staff strength in the
coming years.  Ophir Energy Plc (OPHR)  gained 4 percent to 531.5 pence. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. raised its recommendation on the stock to  buy 
from neutral.  Orascom, Lonmin  Orascom Development Holding AG (ODHN)  dropped 6.9 percent to 14.75
francs. The company said it expects first-half sales to be
between 20 percent and 25 percent higher than for the same
period in 2011, while net income will fall as a result of
building costs and taxes.  Lonmin (LMI)  retreated 1.3 percent to 639.5 pence, paring an
earlier loss of as much as 8.6 percent. That’s the lowest price
since December 2008. South African police killed 35 striking
workers at Lonmin’s Marikana platinum-mining complex yesterday,
the worst death toll in police action since the end of apartheid
in 1994.  “With each day of lost  strike action , the company is
losing around 2,500 ounces of platinum production and an
estimated $3 million,” analysts at Absa Capital, a unit of
Barclays Plc’s Absa Group Ltd., wrote in a note. “As the strike
continues, we believe there is an increasing possibility of
Lonmin breaching its debt covenants, resulting in the company
needing to renegotiate covenants or raise capital.”  Heineken Bid  Heineken NV (HEIA)  slipped 1.5 percent to 43.14 euros. The world’s
third-largest  brewer  is in talks with Fraser & Neave Ltd. about
raising its offer for the rest of Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd.,
said three people with knowledge of the matter.  Heineken is considering raising its offer from S$50 a share
to about S$53 per share for APB, said the people, who asked not
to be identified because the talks are private. A condition for
raising the bid would be some guarantees over deal completion.  Valiant Holding AG (VATN)  tumbled 6.4 percent to 77.10 francs for
the biggest decline in the Stoxx 600. The bank said first-half
net trading income declined by 10 percent to 6.9 million francs.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , a wind turbine maker, rallied 6.9
percent to 32.50 kroner. German Environment Minister Peter
Altmaier yesterday said the government will draw up proposals to
overhaul a law that regulates subsidies for solar and wind-power
generators. Merkel is shifting Germany away from nuclear power
in favor of renewable sources following the meltdown in Japan
last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 