-- Euro-Area Exports Rose 2.4% in June, Led by Germany: Economy
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-08-17T09:56:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/euro-area-exports-increased-2-4-in-june-led-by-germany-italy.html
Euro-area exports rose for a second
month in June, driven by a surge in shipments from Germany, as
companies tapped into  emerging markets  to offset declining
demand at home.  Exports from the 17-nation currency bloc advanced a
seasonally adjusted 2.4 percent from May, when they gained 0.4
percent, the European Union’s  statistics office  in Luxembourg
said today. Imports stagnated in the period and the  trade
surplus  widened to 10.5 billion euros ($13 billion) from 6.8
billion euros.  Europe’s economy contracted 0.2 percent in the second
quarter as tougher austerity measures pushed at least six  member
states  including  Italy  and Spain into recession. With households
and companies across the region cutting spending, exporters such
as  L’Oreal SA (OR) , the world’s largest cosmetics maker, have relied
on faster-growing Asian markets to bolster sales.  “The euro-region economy is undergoing a mild recession,”
said  Alexander Krueger , chief economist at Bankhaus Lampe KG in
Dusseldorf. “The global growth dynamic has eased somewhat, but
exports will continue to support development to a certain extent
in the second half of the year.”  German exports jumped 6.6 percent in June to 40.9 billion
euros, while imports in Europe’s largest economy rose 1.5
percent. Shipments from Italy increased 2 percent in the period.
France and Spain reported gains of 1 percent and 1.4 percent,
respectively.  Exports to U.S.  The euro economy may shrink 0.2 in the third quarter before
returning to growth in the final three months of the year,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
20 economists. The euro has depreciated about 2.7 percent
against the dollar in the past three months as the region’s
turmoil worsened, making exports cheaper. The single currency
extended gains after today’s data were released and traded at
$1.2371 at 11:50 a.m. in  Frankfurt .  Exports to the U.S. rose a non-seasonally adjusted 11
percent in the first five months from a year earlier, while
shipments to the U.K. increased 7 percent, today’s report
showed. Exports to  China  and Russia surged 8 percent and 16
percent, respectively, while Japan shipments climbed 13 percent.
Detailed trade data are published with a one-month lag.  L’Oreal, based in Paris, reported on July 26 that second-
quarter sales beat analysts’ estimates, helped by demand in
 Asia ,  Africa  and the  Middle East .  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ,
the world’s largest maker of luxury cars, is extending its
global reach by expanding capacity in the U.S. and China.  China’s Slowdown  More than a decade after a financial crisis rocked Asia,
the trend growth rates of  Indonesia  and its neighbors are rising
as governments boost spending and companies invest to tap
younger workforces. Southeast Asia is proving resilient to
Europe’s debt crisis and China’s slowdown, with Philippine and
Malaysian expansion surpassing estimates and Thai growth
forecast to accelerate.  Indonesia’s government will increase  capital spending  by 15
percent next year, joining Southeast Asian nations that are
upgrading infrastructure to woo investment. Outlays will rise to
193.8 trillion rupiah ($20 billion) in 2013, President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  said in Jakarta yesterday.  In the U.S., a jobless rate that has topped 8 percent for
42 months is masking the biggest pickup in worker pay in more
than five years. July retail sales that exceeded estimates
indicate consumers may be starting to spend more of that money.  ‘High Government Debt’  The BGOV Barometer shows inflation-adjusted employee
compensation grew at a 4.4 percent annual pace from January
through June, the biggest six-month gain since March 2007,
according to Commerce Department figures. The Barometer also
shows retail sales last month rose a surprising 0.8 percent, the
largest advance since February and the first in four months.  Still, “global economic conditions might deteriorate in
the face of the euro crisis and high government debt,” BMW
Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  said on Aug. 1. The
Munich-based company on that day reported its first drop in
quarterly operating profit in almost three years.  German exports “will weaken over the coming months,” said
Tobias Blattner, an economist at Daiwa Capital Markets Europe in
London. “Slowing demand from the U.S. and China will be a drag
on the foreign sales of Germany, which so far has been the
growth engine of the region’s economy.”  Adding to signs the economic slump is spreading from the
euro region’s periphery nations to the core, German  investor
confidence  unexpectedly fell for a fourth straight month in
August. Germany’s executives also grew more pessimistic in July
and French manufacturing continued to shrink last month.  Markit Economics in  London  is scheduled to release an
initial estimate of a composite index for euro-area services and
manufacturing output for August on Aug. 23. The EU statistics
office will publish a breakdown of second-quarter gross domestic
product next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  