-- Euro Gains Against Majors on Optimism for ECB Crisis Prospects
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-08-17T21:25:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/euro-erases-gain-against-yen-to-trade-little-changed-at-97-99.html
The euro gained against all of its
most-traded counterparts this week amid optimism that European
leaders are moving closer to agreement on solving the region’s
debt crisis.  The 17-nation shared currency touched a six-week high
versus the yen after German Chancellor Angela Merkel yesterday
backed European Central Bank Chief  Mario Draghi ’s conditions for
helping reduce borrowing costs in indebted countries. It erased
a gain against the dollar as German bonds grew the most
expensive in two months versus equivalent  U.S. debt .  Australia ’s
dollar snapped a two-day gain versus the greenback as the
government said the central bank can ease monetary policy if
gains hurt the economy.  The euro was buoyed by suggestions that the ECB “will buy
bonds as soon as anyone comes to the European Financial
Stability Fund to ask for help,” Kit Juckes, the head of
foreign-exchange research at Societe General SA, said in a
telephone interview. “At some point, maybe we’ll get bored
again of nobody asking for help, but that’s definitely a factor
which I think has helped the general mood.”  The euro rose 0.1 percent to 98.13 yen at 5 p.m.  New York 
time, after climbing to 98.41, the most since July 6. It fell
0.2 percent to $1.2334. Japan’s currency dropped for a fifth day
against the dollar, retreating 0.3 percent to 79.56.  Canada’s dollar weakened against its U.S counterpart for
the first time in four days as inflation slowed in July, adding
to evidence the nation’s economy is moving away from full
capacity. It fell 0.3 percent to 98.93 cents per  U.S. dollar .  Colombia’s peso dropped for an eighth day, its longest
streak since August 2008, on speculation officials will take
more measures to stem its rally. The peso depreciated less than
0.1 percent to 1,819.77 per U.S. dollar, paring its rally this
year to 6.5 percent, the largest among global counterparts after
the Hungarian forint and the Chilean peso.  Euro, Yen  The euro gained 2 percent versus the yen this week, the
most since the period through June 8. It added 0.4 percent
against the dollar. The yen fell 1.6 percent versus the
greenback, its biggest weekly drop since the five days ended
June 22.  “Euro-yen has historically been a good barometer for risk
appetite,” Blake Jespersen, managing director of foreign
exchange in Toronto at  Bank of Montreal (BMO) , said in a telephone
interview. “Improved  market sentiment  is benefiting that cross
in particular. That pair has really been a proxy for overall
risk sentiment, and as a result, you’re seeing a good run up.”  Draghi said on Aug. 2 that the ECB might buy  government
bonds  to help lower borrowing costs in countries such as Spain
and Italy, though only in return for strict conditions and if
governments act first by buying debt through Europe’s bailout
funds. Spain and Italy have yet to say whether they will request
aid.  ‘Negative Consequences’  Merkel, who is due to meet French President  Francois Hollande  on Aug. 23 and Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras a
day later, is considering easing Greece’s bailout terms, two
German lawmakers said.  “Obviously time is pressing” on stamping out the debt
crisis, though “on many of these issues we feel we’re on the
right track,” she told reporters in Ottawa yesterday at a press
conference with Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper .  The euro gained 0.6 percent this week, the best performer
alongside the Swiss franc among the 10 developed-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The yen declined 1.6 percent and the dollar gained 0.2 percent.  Yield Spread  The difference in yields between U.S. and German 10-year
bonds today reached its widest point since June 6, at 32 basis
points, or 0.32 percentage point. The spread could put downward
pressure on the euro by making German debt less attractive,
Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange strategist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in New York, said in a telephone interview.  “Yields in the U.S. are increasing compared to  Germany ,
which could put some pressure on the euro,” St-Arnaud said.  The euro zone’s current account climbed to a seasonally
adjusted 12.7 billion euros ($15.7 billion) in June from 10.3
billion euros the previous month, according to data from the
 European Central Bank  in  Frankfurt .  “Money flows within the zone but doesn’t head for the
hills,”  Societe Generale ’s Juckes said. “If we haven’t
triggered proper capital flight yet, will we ever? And if we
don’t, the euro’s fall will continue to be very, very slow.”  Nomura forecasts that the euro will fall to $1.18 versus
the greenback by the end of the third quarter and $1.15 by year
end. Societe Generale sees the euro at $1.23 by the end of the
third quarter and $1.21 at year end.  Aussie Drop  Australia’s dollar fell 0.9 percent to $1.0420, the biggest
one-day drop since July 23. For the week, it fell 1.5 percent,
the biggest drop since May 18.  Models used by the  International Monetary Fund  and other
analysts show, “the Australian dollar is overvalued compared to
its medium- to long-run equilibrium value,” according to the
Treasury report on its website today. The  Reserve Bank  of
Australia will next week release minutes of its Aug. 7 meeting,
where policy makers left the key  interest rate  at 3.5 percent.  The Aussie fell against 15 of its 16 major counterparts
today as  China’s economy  showed signs of slowing. Gross domestic
product is forecast to increase 8.2 percent this year, a
percentage point less than in 2011, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  ‘Cut Rates’  “The Treasury highlighted that if the strength of the
Australian dollar is impacting the economy, then the central
bank would have full capacity to cut rates,” said  Camilla Sutton , chief currency strategist at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s
Scotiabank unit in Toronto, said in a phone interview.  The euro may strengthen against the Australian dollar to
the highest level in more than a month if it breaks through
resistance at A$1.1860 to A$1.1935, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co., citing technical indicators. If it breaches this
resistance, it may rise to A$1.20 to A$1.21, a level last passed
on July 13. It was up 0.5 percent at A$1.1814 today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  