-- European Stocks Rise for 11th Week on Stimulus Bets, GDP
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-08-17T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/european-stocks-rise-for-11th-week-on-stimulus-bets-gdp.html
European stocks  rose to the highest
level since July 2011, extending gains for an 11th week, as
investors anticipated policy makers will stimulate the euro-area
economy and German growth retreated less than forecast.  Bankia SA, the lender bailed out by the Spanish state,
advanced the most in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index as banks jumped.
Vestas Wind Systems A/S rose 11 percent as Germany started a
review of renewable energy laws.  Julius Baer  Group Ltd. slid 11
percent after buying Merrill Lynch’s wealth management business
outside the U.S.  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  fell 15 percent on concern about a
possible breach of its debt covenants amid falling profit and a
violent labor dispute.  The Stoxx 600 rose 1.1 percent to 272.83 this week for its
longest streak of gains since 2006. The benchmark gauge has
climbed 17 percent since June 4 as euro-area policy makers eased
repayment terms for Spanish banks and optimism for new stimulus
measures grew as  European Central Bank  President  Mario Draghi 
pledged to preserve the euro at all costs.  “There’s nowhere else to invest for a return than stocks
and after Draghi’s earlier comments, investors are counting on
more action from the European Central Bank, said Steen Groendahl,” the Copenhagen-based director and head of Global
Research at Nordea Bank AB. “The ECB will have to say they’re
willing to buy bonds one way or the other, most likely in the
secondary market, which will help push stocks even higher.”  German Backing  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , speaking in Canada on Aug.
16, backed the ECB’s insistence on conditions for helping to
reduce borrowing costs in indebted countries, saying Germany is
“in line” with the central bank’s approach to defend the euro.  “On many of these issues we feel we’re on the right
track,” Merkel told reporters in Ottawa. Euro-area policy
makers “feel committed to do everything we can to maintain the
common currency.”  Germany is facing calls from Italy and Spain to pool debt
to bring down bond yields, from Greece to back an easing of its
austerity timetable and from the ECB for politicians to take the
lead in fighting the sovereign-debt crisis. Merkel also faces
domestic pressure from her coalition partners to refuse any more
aid for Greece.  Draghi said Aug. 2 that the bank may take action to reduce
debt yields for nations on Europe’s periphery, while stressing
that the ECB must work “within its mandate to maintain  price
stability .”  German Growth  Germany’s economic growth  slowed less in the second quarter
than economists had forecast as exports and household spending
helped to fend off the impact of the debt crisis on Europe’s
largest economy.  Gross domestic product rose 0.3 percent from the first
quarter, the Federal Statistics Office said on Aug. 14.
Economists had predicted a 0.2 percent increase.  France avoided a contraction as GDP was unchanged in the
quarter, beating the 0.1 percent decline predicted by
economists. The euro-area economy as a whole shrank 0.2 percent
in the three months to the end of June, matching estimates.  Hedge funds that base investment decisions on economic
trends are unwinding bets against  European stocks  at the fastest
pace in three years, speculating policy makers will step up the
fight against the debt crisis.  The degree by which macro funds are trailing the  Euro Stoxx
50 Index (SX5E)  is narrowing at the fastest rate since 2009, a sign
that managers are covering short sales by buying shares,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Bulls say professional investors buying back shares that
were borrowed and sold short are fueling a rally led Draghi’s
pledge to defend the euro. The Euro Stoxx 50 is up more than 12
percent in three weeks, twice the gain of the  MSCI All-Country
World Index (MXWD) , even as the euro-area economy is forecast to slide
into recession.  National Indexes  National benchmark indexes rose in all of the 18 western
European markets except Ireland. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX)  gained 0.1
percent, while Germany’s DAX Index jumped 1.4 percent. France’s
CAC 40 added 1.5 percent.  In China Premier Wen Jiabao said there’s “growing room for
monetary policy operation,” state television reported on Aug.
15, after a release from the Ministry of Commerce showed  Foreign
direct investment  in China slid 8.7 percent from a year earlier
to $7.58 billion. That was the eighth drop in nine months and
the smallest inflow since July 2010.  A gauge of bank shares advanced 4.2 percent for the biggest
weekly advance among the  19 industry groups  in the Stoxx 600.  Bankia SA (BKIA)  jumped 21 percent on speculation that it will
shortly get some rescue funds.  Italian Banks  Italian lenders paced advancing shares after the country
sold 8 billion euros worth of one-year bills on Aug. 13, meeting
its target. The Rome-based Treasury sold the bills at 2.767
percent, up from 2.697 percent at the last sale of similar-
maturity debt on July 12. Investors bid 1.69 times the amount of
bills offered, up from 1.55 times last month.  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , the country’s two
largest lenders, gained 9 percent and 7.4 percent, respectively.  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA , Italy’s third-biggest
bank, rallied 21 percent. Chairman  Alessandro Profumo , speaking
on local Italian TV Canale 3 Toscana on Aug. 16, said that the
company’s foundation has to further cut its stake over time.  Vestas Wind Systems, a wind turbine maker, rose 11 percent.
German Environment Minister  Peter Altmaier  said on Aug. 16 that
the government will draw up proposals to overhaul a law that
regulates subsidies for solar and wind-power generators. Merkel
is shifting Germany away from nuclear power in favor of
renewable sources following the meltdown in Japan last year.  Julius Baer  Julius Baer (BAER) , the Swiss wealth manager established in 1890,
dropped 11 percent after agreeing to pay about 860 million
francs ($880 million) for Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch non-
U.S. wealth management business. The company plans to raise 750
million francs through a rights offering to help fund the deal.  The purchase “looks rather expensive especially when
taking into account the integration costs, implementation risks
and need for an additional capital increase,” said  Teresa Nielsen , a Zurich-based analyst at Vontobel Holding AG.  A gauge of mining companies was the worst-performing
industry group in the Stoxx 600, declining 1.8 percent. Mining
shares fell with base metal prices as non-performing loans in
China rose by 18.2 billion  yuan  ($2.9 billion) to 456.4 billion
yuan in the three months ended June 30, according to the
country’s Banking Regulatory Commission.  Roberto Castello Branco, director of  investor relations  at
Vale SA, the biggest iron-ore producer, said on Aug. 14 that the
Chinese economy’s “golden years” are behind it.  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s third-largest mining company,
slid 5.3 percent, the most in three months, while Vedanta
Resources Plc, which mines copper and aluminium in India,
retreated 4.6 percent.  Lonmin Strike  Lonmin tumbled 15 percent after South African police killed
34 striking workers at its Marikana platinum-mining complex on
Aug. 16, the worst death toll in police action since the end of
apartheid in 1994.  “With each day of lost strike action, the company is
losing around 2,500 ounces of platinum production and an
estimated $3 million,” analysts at Absa Capital, a unit of
Barclays Plc’s Absa Group Ltd., wrote in a note. “As the strike
continues, we believe there is an increasing possibility of
Lonmin breaching its debt covenants, resulting in the company
needing to renegotiate covenants or raise capital.”  Of the 273 companies listed on the  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  that have
reported quarterly profit this  earnings season , 134 have
exceeded analysts’ projections, while 137 have missed them,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  