-- Ex-CEO Sculley Says TV Market Is Apple’s ‘Game to Lose’
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-08-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/ex-apple-ceo-sculley-says-tv-market-is-company-s-game-to-lose-.html
Former  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Chief Executive
Officer  John Sculley , the man who presided over the company when
Steve Jobs left in 1985, said a move into the television market
is “Apple’s game to lose.”  Apple already has a foothold in smartphones, tablets and
computers, giving it an edge in trying to take control of
consumers’ living rooms, he said in an interview. Sculley, who
stepped down as CEO in 1993, has no inside knowledge of the
company’s strategy.  “They own three screens -- the mobile phone, tablet and
computer -- and you can see how important it is to them to own
the fourth, which is TV,” said Sculley, who now runs an
investment firm and is chairman of  3Cinteractive LLC , a mobile-
 software developer .  Apple is in talks with at least one of the largest U.S.
cable companies about teaming up on a product to carry live
television and other content, a person with knowledge of the
discussions said. Customers would be able to use an Apple-
designed device to access their set of channels instead of
leasing a set-top box from cable companies for a monthly fee,
said the person, who asked not to be named because the talks are
private. No deal has been reached, the person said.  Tom Neumayr , a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, declined to comment.  ‘Ecosystem’ Advantage  Apple’s iPhone is the best-selling smartphone in the U.S.,
and the iPad controls 70 percent of the tablet market. This
“ecosystem” is a huge advantage over competitors, Sculley
said. Apple’s core principle has been improving the user
experience and keeping that experience consistent across
different devices, he said.  “People don’t realize how huge this is,” he said.
“Microsoft wanted the living room, Sony wanted the living room,
and so far both have failed.”  Sculley became Apple’s CEO in 1983 and was running the
company when Jobs, a co-founder, walked out two years later.
Jobs returned to Apple in 1997 and embarked on a comeback that
eventually turned it into the world’s most valuable company.  Apple shares  rose 1.8 percent to $648.11 yesterday,
reaching an all-time high. The stock has advanced 60 percent
this year.  No one other than  Steve Jobs , with his intense product
focus, could have turned Apple around, said Sculley, who hasn’t
read Walter Isaacson’s best-selling biography of Jobs.  “I lived it -- I don’t need to relive it,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  