-- Ex-Jefferies Paragon Manager Contorinis Conviction Upheld
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-08-17T16:42:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/ex-jefferies-paragon-manager-contorinis-conviction-upheld.html
A U.S. appeals court upheld the
insider-trading conviction of Joseph Contorinis, a former
Jefferies Paragon Fund money manager, and ordered a hearing into
whether he must forfeit $12.6 million.  Contorinis, 48, was convicted in  Manhattan  federal court in
2010 and sentenced to six years in prison for participating in
an illegal insider-trading scheme that prosecutors said earned
him more than $7 million.  Jurors found that Contorinis traded on tips from Nicos Stephanou, who was an associate director of mergers and
acquisitions at Zurich-based UBS AG. Stephanou, who was the
government’s chief witness at the trial, testified that he
passed inside information to Contorinis and others including an
employee of a semiconductor company and two people in Cyprus.  While upholding the conviction, the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals in Manhattan said the trial judge erred in ordering
Contorinis to forfeit profits he didn’t earn or receive himself.
The appeals court returned the case to the district judge for a
new hearing on the forfeiture amount.  A trial judge may order a defendant to forfeit proceeds
received by others, “provided the actions generating those
proceeds were reasonably foreseeable to the defendant,” the
appeals court said. “This view does not support an extension to
a situation where the proceeds go directly to an innocent third
party and are never possessed by the defendant.”  Forfeit Funds  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan, who presided over the
trial, had held Contorinis liable for profits made by other
“tippees.” Contorinis had argued he was an employee and small
equity owner of his fund and shouldn’t be ordered to forfeit
profits he never received.  “We hold that the district court erred in ordering
appellant to forfeit funds that were never possessed or
controlled by himself or others,” the appeals court said.  At the trial, Stephanou testified that he was part of a UBS
team advising Cerberus Capital Management LP in its bid to buy
Albertsons Inc. in 2006. He pleaded guilty and testified against
Contorinis in exchange for leniency.  Roberto Finzi, a lawyer for Contorinis, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message left at his office seeking comment
on the ruling.  The cases are U.S. v. Contorinis, 09-cr-01083, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan), and
U.S. v. Joseph Contorinis, 11-cr-3, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  