-- Ex-LSU Cornerback Mathieu Is in Rehab, Louisiana TV Station Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-08-17T14:22:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/ex-lsu-cornerback-mathieu-is-in-rehab-louisiana-tv-station-says.html
All-American cornerback Tyrann Mathieu, who was dismissed from  Louisiana State University ’s
football team last week for a rules violation, is in a Houston
drug-rehabilitation facility, a Louisiana television station
reported.  Fox 8, citing Mathieu’s father, said the 2011 Heisman
Trophy finalist will remain at the Right Step recovery center
until he “conquers his demons.” He is being mentored daily by
former National Basketball Association player and coach John Lucas, who battled cocaine and alcohol during his playing
career, the station reported.  A phone message left for George Johnson, Right Step’s chief
executive officer, seeking comment wasn’t immediately returned.  Mathieu, 20, was let go three weeks before the start of his
junior season for violating team rules, the school said on its
athletics website. It didn’t say what rules were broken.  Last season Mathieu had two interceptions and recovered
five fumbles, two of which he turned into touchdowns. Nicknamed
the “Honey Badger,” he also returned two punts for touchdowns.  He was named the  Southeastern Conference ’s defensive player
of the year and won the Chuck Bednarik Award, given annually to
the best defensive player in college football. He finished fifth
in voting for the Heisman Trophy, which was awarded to Baylor
University quarterback Robert Griffin III as the sport’s best
player.  LSU lost last season’s  Bowl Championship Series  title game
21-0 to the University of  Alabama . The Tigers received the No. 1
rank in the USA Today preseason poll, and open their season on
Sept. 1 at home against North Texas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  