-- MF Global Sued Over Mercuria Energy Loan in Bankruptcy Court
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-08-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/mf-global-sued-by-mercuria-energy-in-bankruptcy-court-1-.html
Mercuria Energy America Inc. said a
$20 million loan from an affiliate of MF Global Inc. shouldn’t
have to be paid back after the brokerage misappropriated the $42
million trading account securing the loan.  Mercuria Energy America, in an adversary complaint filed
yesterday in U.S.  Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan , seeks a court
order that it can offset its damages from the collateral account
against the amount it owns on the loan.  Mercuria Energy America, a Houston-based unit of closely
held Mercuria Energy Group Holding SA, said it would be a
“travesty” if the company were to be required to go “out of
pocket” to pay a unit of bankrupt MF Global Holdings Ltd. when
the corporation failed to protect the collateral account that
assured repayment of the loan.  MF Global Finance USA Inc.’s “demand requires a complete
suspension of disbelief in the coordinated actions of the  MF
Global (MFGLQ)  Enterprise, and the acceptance of a complete fiction that
it is somehow independent of the gross misconduct here
perpetrated,” the energy company said in its complaint.  The MF Global Holdings Ltd. parent and the commodity
brokerage subsidiary, MF Global Inc., went into separate
bankruptcies on Oct. 31. The holding-company parent is under
control of  Louis Freeh , as a Chapter 11 trustee, while the
broker is under control of James Giddens, a separate trustee
selected by the Securities Investor Protection Corp.  Melissa Hager, a lawyer representing Freeh in the MF Global
Holdings case, and Ken Ziman, a lawyer for the parent company,
didn’t return calls to their offices yesterday after regular
business hours for comment on the lawsuit.  The adversary lawsuit is Mercury Energy America v. MF
Global Finance USA, 12-1800,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan).  The holding company’s Chapter 11 case is In re MF Global
Holdings Ltd., 11-15059, and the liquidation of the broker is In
re MF Global Inc., 11-02790, both in the same court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 