-- Facebook Second-Worst IPO Performer After Share Lock-Up
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-08-17T09:23:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/facebook-second-worst-ipo-performer-after-share-lock-up.html
Facebook (FB)  Inc.’s 6.3 percent  drop 
yesterday, after the end of restrictions on share sales by its
biggest investors, was the second-largest post-lock-up decline
among companies that have gone public since January 2011.  Only social-game maker  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  tumbled more, losing 7.9
percent, on the first day that insiders could start selling
their stakes, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That was the
largest one-day post-lock-up descent among the 20 biggest
initial public offerings since January 1, 2011. The slump
yesterday left  Menlo Park , California-based Facebook at a record
low after a 60 percent increase in the number of shares
available for trading.  Under restrictions worked out with IPO underwriters, early
investors agree not to sell their holdings for a preset period
after a market debut to keep from flooding the market with
shares. Facebook’s decline reflects concern that more sales will
follow in the coming months as additional lock-ups expire and as
the company struggles to wring sales from a growing customer
base, said Rory Maher, an analyst at Capstone Investments Inc.  “Anytime you have a lot of shares come out on the market
like that, it’s going to put some pressure on the stock,” Maher
said. “They’re still figuring out the best way to optimize
their core business. And they haven’t quite done that yet.”  Facebook, the world’s largest social-networking service,
advanced to the equivalent of $20.13 at 11:20 a.m. in  German
trading (FB2A) , after dropping $1.33 to $19.87 at the close yesterday
in  New York .  Lock-Ups End  The shares freed up yesterday represent 14 percent of the
1.91 billion that will become available for sale in the coming
nine months. The next expiry comes between Oct. 15 and Nov. 13,
when restraints are removed on about 243 million shares. Lock-up
expires on about 1.2 billion shares on Nov. 14, and for 149.4
million shares a month later. A final round comes May 18, 2013,
with 47.3 million shares becoming available.  Early Facebook investors such as DST Global Ltd.,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Elevation Partners and  Accel Partners  could
start selling part of their holdings yesterday, Menlo Park,
California-based Facebook has said in  filings . The restriction
was lifted for early investors, excluding Facebook Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg , who sold part of their
holdings in the IPO.  Facebook shares have  lost  48 percent since the May 17 IPO.
Even so, some investors probably aren’t convinced that the stock
won’t fall further, said  Erik Gordon , a professor at the Stephen
M. Ross School of Business at the  University of Michigan .  Yelling ‘Fire’  “It might not be rational for the shareholders to sell all
at once, but when someone in a theater yells ‘fire,’ people
don’t act rationally, they stampede to the exits,” he said.
“It might be fatal to your career to be viewed as the last
chump to get out.”  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , based in Redmond, Washington, will
probably hang onto its stake after the lockup-ban lifts, a
person with knowledge of the matter said on Aug. 10.  Microsoft views Facebook as a strategic partner in the
combat against  Google Inc. (GOOG) , rather than as a near-term
moneymaker, said the person, who requested anonymity because the
plans are private.  Other investors have been preparing for potential sales.
Director  Peter Thiel , who sold in the IPO, has given himself
added flexibility to unload more holdings, according to a
regulatory filing. Thiel, one of Facebook’s earliest investors,
converted more than 9 million shares to Class A from Class B.
Class A shares are easier to sell on the public markets.  Sales Slowdown  Facebook has grappled with concerns about its valuation
after reporting  sales growth  of 32 percent in the second quarter
from the year-ago period, down from 45 percent in the first
quarter and 55 percent in the fourth quarter. The second-quarter
gain was dwarfed by a surge in spending on marketing and sales,
which ballooned to $392 million.  Part of Facebook’s challenge is making money from the
growing slice of users who access the social network over mobile
devices. During the second quarter, the number of ads delivered
in the U.S. dropped 2 percent from a year earlier even amid an
increase in total daily users.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  