-- Fannie Mortgage-Bond Spreads Narrow as U.S. Eases Bailout Terms
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-08-17T20:11:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/fannie-mortgage-bond-yields-little-changed-on-bailout-tweaks.html
Relative yields on  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and
Freddie Mac mortgage securities that guide home-loan rates
declined as the U.S. Treasury Department said it would alter
their bailout agreements, while spreads on the companies’ own
debt narrowed and their preferred shares tumbled.  A Bloomberg index of yields on Fannie Mae-guaranteed
mortgage bonds trading closest to face value fell about 1 basis
point to 129 basis points, or 1.29 percentage points, higher
than an average of five- and 10-year Treasury rates as of 3 p.m.
in New York. The spread yesterday reached the widest in a month.
The yield relative to  U.S. government debt  on its unsecured
notes due August 2017 fell 4 basis points to 14 basis points,
the lowest since the debt’s July 18 issuance.  Adjustments to the companies’ government support will end a
requirement that they pay 10 percent dividends annually on the
capital they’ve drawn from the Treasury. Recent earnings at
 Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac have often been too low to cover that
amount, and the government this year will stop allowing them to
tap unlimited taxpayer funds to fill any shortfalls.  The companies’ regular need to borrow money from the
Treasury to pay the dividends, increasing their burden and
leaving them exposed to eventually running out of aid, seemed
like a “never-ending, un-virtuous cycle” that worried
potential buyers of their bonds, Robert Rowe, an agency debt
analyst at Citigroup Inc., said in a telephone interview. “You
could potentially see some investors, particularly some foreign
investors, that have moved out of the market come back to it.”  Reducing Holdings  Fannie Mae’s 8.25 percent preferred perpetual shares
slumped 55 percent to $1.05 as of 4 p.m. after the Treasury said
the companies would begin providing future earnings to the
government. The U.S. ordered Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  to cease
paying preferred-stock dividends after their seizures in 2008.
Buyers speculated that the companies would eventually recover,
repay the U.S. and resume the payouts, or that the shares would
be valuable when the firms get restructured.  The Treasury also is directing the firms to wind down their
holdings of mortgage securities and loans faster. The new
bailout agreements will require the companies to reduce their
holdings at a pace of 15 percent a year, up from 10 percent. The
cap will start at $650 billion as of December.  Supply Increase  The accelerated reduction may increase the supply of
government-backed mortgage bonds from Fannie Mae’s portfolio
available to others by about $33 billion in 2013, according to a
report today by Credit Suisse Group AG analysts including Mahesh Swaminathan. The extra amount from both Fannie Mae and  Freddie
Mac (FMCC)  will probably total between $50 billion and $60 billion “in
2014 and beyond,” they wrote.  The companies’ portfolios, which they fund by selling the
unsecured notes, are a separate business from their bond
guarantees, which financed about two-thirds of new U.S.
mortgages last quarter, according to data from newsletter Inside
Mortgage Finance.  Declines in Freddie Mac’s portfolio have already been
exceeding the required pace with its reported holdings falling
in June to $581.2 billion, which Anish Lohokare, a BNP Paribas
SA analyst, described in a note to clients as “well below” the
required level. Fannie Mae’s investments were at $672.8 billion,
he said.  “On first look, we do not see the formality of
accelerating the rate of portfolio decline for Fannie and
Freddie holdings to have any lasting footprint in the  debt
market ,”  Jim Vogel , a debt analyst at FTN Financial, wrote in a
note. “Just the fact they were slowly shrinking was enough to
help keep spreads” on their own debt “in line.”  Paying Dividends  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have taken a total of almost
$190 billion in U.S. aid since they were put into
conservatorship in September 2008 as mounting losses from the
nation’s housing slump threatened to exacerbate a global
financial crisis. The companies have paid back about $46 billion
in the form of dividends.  The Treasury’s new agreement with the companies will
require them to only turn over any earnings, meaning they won’t
need to borrow more to cover the dividends in quarters when
their profits are too small or non-existent. The compounding
effect of the previous accord meant they could have run out of
money within as little as seven years, Bank of America Corp.
analyst Ralph Axel said in January.  After an earlier reworking of their agreements that offered
unlimited funds to the companies as needed through the end of
this year, Fannie Mae can tap about $125 billion more in the
future, with Freddie Mac having about $150 billion remaining if
needed.  Fannie Mae this month reported that rising home prices
helped push its net income to $5.1 billion in the second
quarter, enough to offset a $2.9 billion dividend payment to the
Treasury. Freddie Mac reported net income of $3 billion in the
second quarter and made a dividend payment to the Treasury of
$1.8 billion. The company said it would not require U.S. aid for
the first time since the first quarter of 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  