-- Florida Bid to Restrict Early Voting Rejected by Court
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-08-17T22:03:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/florida-bid-to-restrict-early-voting-rejected-by-court.html
Florida ’s attempt to restrict the
number of early voting days in November’s presidential election
was rejected by a three-judge panel because of the impact the
proposed change could have on minority voters.  The ruling came in a lawsuit Florida brought against U.S.
Attorney General Eric Holder in August 2011 to compel approval
of a cutback in the number of early voting days to eight from 14
and curtailed voting hours.  “The state has failed to satisfy its burden of proving
that those changes will not have a retrogressive effect on
minority voters,” the three-judge panel wrote in its 119-page
decision, filed yesterday in federal court in  Washington .  Fights over voting access are underway in states including
 Ohio ,  Pennsylvania ,  Alabama  and  South Carolina  ahead of the Nov.
6 presidential election. At stake are proposed changes in voting
procedures that Republican-controlled legislatures said were
necessary to prevent fraud and help elections run smoothly.
Democrats said the steps were aimed at limiting votes for
President  Barack Obama .  Last year, the Florida legislature, which was controlled by
Republicans, voted a series of changes into the state’s election
procedures, including the reduction of early voting days to
eight from 14. Under the Voting Rights Act of 1965, Florida has
to pre-clear any proposed changes in five counties with the U.S.
Justice Department or a federal court.  ‘Historic Numbers’  “Black voters in Florida used the early voting period to
vote in historic numbers in the 2008 elections, with more than
half of them casting their ballots during that period,” the
NAACP Legal Defense Fund, which advocates for the voting rights
of African-Americans, said in an e-mailed statement. “The
Voting Rights Act ensured that this important path to political
participation for voters of color in Florida would remain open
in this upcoming election.”  The court also ruled that there were ways Florida could
change its early voting procedures that would not impact
minority voters.  “We are very pleased that the court pre-cleared the out-
of-county address change provision and said that Florida would
‘likely’ satisfy its burden of proof on the early voting change
if the covered counties offer the maximum number of authorized
hours,” said Chris Cate, a spokesman for the  Florida Department
of State .  Provisional Ballots  The panel approved a new measure for voters who move within
the state, requiring them to cast a provisional ballot if they
vote in a new county and seek to change their address on
Election Day.  “There is no question that African Americans
disproportionately rely on early in-person voting and changing
the rules is likely to result in fewer of them voting,” said
Corrine Brown, a Democratic Congresswoman from Florida. “The
court rightly saw through the state’s failure to provide any
explanation for restricting the opportunity to vote.”  Brown filed a federal lawsuit in Jacksonville in July along
with the Southern Christian Leadership Conference-Jacksonville
chapter and the Duval County Democratic Executive Committee to
expand early voting days and hours in the entire state.  Florida is one of 16 jurisdictions with a history of voting
rights violations that need approval from the  Justice Department 
or a federal court in Washington to change election procedures.  The three-judge panel said it would review separately
Florida’s request to throw out Section 5 of the Voting Rights
Act of 1965, which was enacted to prevent racial discrimination
in voting, as unconstitutional.  The case is Florida v. U.S., 1:11-cv-01428, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 