-- Footballer’s Ponzi, Swaps Timetable, MIAX: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-08-17T13:02:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/footballer-s-ponzi-swaps-timetable-miami-options-compliance.html
Jim Donnan, a Hall of Fame football
coach who led teams at the University of Georgia and Marshall
University, is facing regulatory claims that he helped run a
Ponzi scheme that defrauded former players and fellow coaches.  Donnan, who became a television commentator for ESPN after
leaving coaching, and a business partner siphoned more than $8
million while misleading investors in their West Virginia-based
business GLC Ltd., the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
said in a complaint filed in federal court in Atlanta. Donnan,
67, and Gregory Crabtree, 50, paid fraudulent returns from
investor funds, the SEC said in the complaint.  Crabtree started GLC with his wife in 2004 and enlisted
Donnan to recruit investors for the business, which they said
bought liquidated, damaged and returned merchandise from major
retailers for resale to discounters, the SEC said. The
investment program was a Ponzi scheme, with only $12 million of
the $80 million raised used to buy merchandise and much of that
left unsold in warehouses, the agency said in its complaint.  Donnan, who is accused of taking $7.4 million for himself,
is said to have passed proceeds to two of his adult children and
a son-in-law who were named as relief defendants in the
complaint, which seeks civil penalties as well as disgorgement
of illegal proceeds and interest. The former coach and his wife
filed for bankruptcy in Athens, Georgia, in July 2011.  Donnan coached Marshall to the National Collegiate Athletic
Association’s Division I-AA championship in 1992 and followed
that with multiple bowl-game wins with Georgia before he was
fired in 2000.  Edward Tolley, Donnan’s Athens-based lawyer, and Michael
Schmidt, a Cincinnati-based lawyer for Crabtree, didn’t return
telephone messages seeking comment.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. James M.
Donnan, 12-cv-02831, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Georgia (Atlanta).  Compliance Policy  Swap Dealers May Get Until January to Complete CFTC Registration  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , JPMorgan Chase & Co. and other
firms may have until January to register swap-dealing units
subject to the highest collateral and conduct standards under
U.S. efforts to cut risk in the $648 trillion market.  The  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  set in motion a
series of Dodd-Frank Act rules this week when it published a
regulation effective Oct. 12 determining when trades will be
considered swaps. Under a separate CFTC timetable, dealers may
get until at least January to register.  Steven Adamske , the CFTC’s spokesman, declined to comment.  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , France’s second-largest bank, and
lobby groups representing U.S. and international financial
institutions have pressed the CFTC to delay registration of
swap-dealing units because its Dodd-Frank rulemaking hasn’t been
completed. The main U.S. derivatives regulator is taking
comments on a proposal for how the rules will apply to foreign-
based banks and units of U.S. banks operating overseas.  Bank of America  Corp.,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and JPMorgan have
also urged the CFTC to change its guidance.  The agency estimated that 125 firms will register as swap
dealers, which will face the highest standards for collateral,
capital and conduct when trading with pension funds and cities.
 Footnotes  and details in  a CFTC regulation  published May 23 laid
out a timeline for when and how firms must determine if they
meet the swap-dealer definition.  They must begin to aggregate trades starting on Oct. 12,
when the  swap-definition rule takes effect .  For more, click here.  EU Seeks to Prevent ECB Dominance of European Bank Authority  European Union officials are seeking to prevent the 17
states that share the euro from dominating its forum for
resolving disputes among financial regulators, the European
Banking Authority, according to two people familiar with the
plans.  Euro-area leaders agreed in late June that the Frankfurt-
based European Central Bank should oversee lenders in the bloc
as part of their efforts to quell the debt crisis. European
Commission officials drafting a proposal for a common supervisor
are concerned that the central bank’s legal independence may
allow it to override decisions taken by the EBA, which co-
ordinates the work of supervisors in the EU’s 27 member states.  The commission is also weighing changes to the EBA’s voting
rules to prevent euro countries from wielding overwhelming
influence at the London-based authority, the people said on
condition of anonymity because the preparations are private. The
commission intends to unveil legislation on creating the single
supervisor around Sept. 11.  The euro area is racing to create a single bank supervisor
“involving the ECB” as part of a  deal  reached at a June 28-29
summit that would allow banks to seek direct aid from the
currency union’s bailout funds.  For more, click here.  Separately, the  European Commission  will present a report
on a possible overhaul of bank-structure rules by the end of
next month, a spokesman for the European Union’s  Michel Barnier 
said.  The report is being prepared by an expert group led by the
European Central Bank council member  Erkki Liikanen .  Barnier spokesman Stefaan de Rynck spoke about the report
in Brussels.  Bank Client-Fund Data May Be Open to Regulators After Peregrine  U.S. futures brokerages and their banks would make client-
fund data accessible to regulators in the wake of the collapse
of Peregrine Financial Group Inc., under a proposal approved by
the  National Futures Association .  Regulators would have view-only Internet access to
information held at a bank or trust, Chicago-based NFA said
yesterday after endorsing the plan. The new requirements are
subject to approval by the  Commodity Futures Trading Commission ,
the main U.S. regulator of futures and swaps. Regulators
currently don’t have direct access to client accounts.  Industry self-regulators would be able to check segregated
customer-fund accounts “without asking the firm or the bank,
and compare those balances to the firm’s daily segregation
report,” NFA President Dan Roth said in a statement.  The NFA, a self-regulatory group, is seeking to bolster
industry oversight after Peregrine, a commodity firm, collapsed
in July with at least $200 million in client funds missing. MF
Global Holdings Ltd. filed the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy on
Oct. 31 and is being liquidated to pay customers facing a $1.6
billion shortfall.  Compliance Action  Miami Options Exchange Moves Closer to Becoming 11th U.S. Venue  The  Miami International Securities Exchange ’s planned U.S.
options venue will compete for orders by giving priority to
market makers that meet certain quoting requirements, according
to its application to regulators.  MIAX, as the proposed exchange is called, may become the
11th U.S. venue to trade equity options if the Securities and
Exchange Commission approves its application  published  Aug. 15.
The exchange has been planned for several years and its filing,
submitted to the SEC in April, provides the first detailed look
into its trading plans and rules. The SEC is seeking comment on
the exchange as it considers approval.  The surge in electronic trading since 2000 has spurred more
competition among older exchanges and startups seeking to draw
trades through different pricing and rules for matching orders.
MIAX will compete for volume in the growing options market with
10 exchanges, including three run by  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and
two each from  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  in Chicago.  The exchange doesn’t yet have a president and chief
executive officer, according to its parent company, Princeton,
New Jersey-based Miami International Holdings Inc. Shelly Brown,
senior vice president for strategic planning and operations,
declined to comment on the exchange’s application.  The electronic exchange’s planned start follows a ninth
straight year of record equity options activity in the U.S.,
with almost 4.6 billion contracts changing hands in 2011,
according to Chicago-based OCC.  For more, click here.  Bats Plans Retail Stock Program to Rival NYSE Initiative  Bats Global Markets Inc., the third-largest U.S. stock
exchange operator, plans to create a  program  to draw orders from
individuals to one of its two markets.  The company asked the Securities and Exchange Commission
for permission to compete with the New York Stock Exchange’s
initiative to attract buy and sell requests from smaller
investors by offering better prices than are available to other
market participants. Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and Direct Edge
Holdings LLC have said they’re also working on plans similar to
NYSE’s 12-month pilot program, which began on Aug. 1.  Exchanges are eyeing orders sent to so-called equity
wholesalers, a category of market makers that executes orders
for individuals supplied by brokers such as  TD Ameritrade
Holding Corp. (AMTD)  and  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)   Knight Capital Group
Inc. (KCG) , Citadel LLC,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Citigroup Inc. are the largest
wholesalers trading orders away from exchanges at prices that
match or improve on the levels offered publicly, a business
known as internalization.  The SEC must approve the Aug. 14 filing from Lenexa,
Kansas-based Bats before its retail price improvement program
can become effective. The initiative allows the exchange’s
member firms to supply quotes that are at least 1/10 of 1 cent
better than the best price at which other market participants
can trade. The orders will not be displayed publicly, as is also
the case at NYSE.  For more, click here.  Warsaw Won’t Let High-Frequency Trade Proliferate, Parkiet Says  Warsaw Stock Exchange SA (GPW)  won’t allow a “proliferation” of
high-frequency trading on its main market when it introduces a
new trading system in November, Chief Executive Officer Ludwik
Sobolewski was quoted as saying by Parkiet in an  interview .  The exchange plans to start NYSE Euronext’s Universal
Trading Platform on Nov. 2 and expects to attract new investors,
among them exchange-traded products, Sobolewski said, according
to the newspaper. Changes in the schedule “are possible” due
to technology risks, Parkiet quoted Sobolewski as saying.  High-frequency trading now plays a “negligible” role on
the Warsaw bourse, Sobolewski said, according to Parkiet.  JPMorgan, RBS Said Among Banks to Get N.Y. Libor Subpoenas  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  are among seven banks
subpoenaed in New York and Connecticut’s investigation into
alleged manipulation of Libor, according to a person familiar
with the matter and company filings.  Subpoenas were sent in recent weeks to  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in
addition to JPMorgan and Barclays, the person said Aug. 15.
Citigroup Inc. and UBS AG received subpoenas earlier this year
as part of the investigation.  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman and Connecticut
Attorney General George Jepsen are jointly investigating alleged
manipulation of the London interbank offered rate by lenders.
RBS, UBS,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and Deutsche Bank are among
the lenders that regulators in Europe, Asia and the U.S. are
investigating. The U.S. is conducting a criminal investigation.  Confidence in Libor, a benchmark for financial products
valued at $360 trillion worldwide, has been dented by Barclays’
admission that it submitted false London and euro interbank
offered rates.  Robert Diamond  resigned as Barclays’ chief
executive office after the bank was fined 290 million pounds
($456 million).  The investigation by Schneiderman and Jepsen could broaden
to include additional banks, said the person. Jennifer Givner, a
spokeswoman for Schneiderman, and Jaclyn Falkowski, a
spokeswoman for Jepsen, declined to comment on the subpoenas.  For more, click here.  Watchdog Probes Possible Wendel Insider Trading, Le Point Says  The French market watchdog is investigating possible
insider trading relating to  Wendel SA (MF) , France’s largest publicly
traded investment firm, Le Point reported, without saying where
it got its information.  Autorite des Marches Financiers is looking into the
increase in Wendel’s share price that followed the company’s
announcement in November that it had entered exclusive talks to
sell Deutsch Group SAS to TE Connectivity Ltd., the magazine
said on its  website  yesterday.  Barbara Frugier, a spokeswoman for AMF, and Christine
Anglade Pirzadeh, a spokeswoman for Wendel, declined to comment.  Russian Banker’s Money-Laundering Case Risks Worse U.K. Ties  Russia and the U.K. risk further souring ties as
authorities are set to clash over potential money-laundering and
bribery charges against a former Russian official at a London-
based international lender.  Elena Kotova, 57, Russia’s former top representative at the
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, is sought by
the U.K. for allegedly conducting a money-laundering operation
in both Britain and the U.S. over several years, according to a
person familiar with the British investigation, who declined to
be identified because the probe is under way. Kotova, who denies
any wrongdoing, says she’s unable to leave Russia because of a
criminal inquiry by local authorities.  Relations worsened to a post-Cold War low after the 2006
assassination of dissident ex-KGB agent  Alexander Litvinenko  in
London. In the Kotova case, the U.K. refused entry to Russian
detectives for more than a year. The Russian investigation may
end up shielding Kotova rather than leading to a trial, said
Mark Galeotti, a professor at New York University.  The City of London Police said Aug. 15 that it is working
with the Crown Prosecution Service, which is responsible for
filing charges. Russia is preparing to send detectives to the
U.K. to interview current and ex-managers at the EBRD, according
to the Interior Ministry in Moscow.  Kotova says she faces potential U.K. charges along with
five other Russians who worked with her at the EBRD.  For more, click here.  Interviews  Levitt Says Libor Is ‘Dead,’ New Measurement Is Needed  Arthur Levitt , former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission and a Bloomberg LP board member, discussed
the investigation into alleged manipulation of Libor.  He spoke with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television’s
“City Central.”  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 