-- General Broke Rules on Wife’s Spa Trip, U.S. Report Says
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-08-17T19:09:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/general-broke-rules-on-wife-s-spa-trip-u-s-report-says.html
U.S. Army General William Ward used
taxpayer money for personal trips, let his staff rent cars at
public expense to take his wife to a spa, and accepted meals and
Broadway theater tickets from a Defense Department contractor,
according to the department’s inspector general.  Ward, who served as the first commander of Africa Command
until last year, “engaged in multiple forms of misconduct
related to official and unofficial travel,” wasted government
money, and “misused his position,” according to a redacted
version of an inspector general’s report obtained today through
a Freedom of Information Act request.  Ward’s fate awaits a decision by Defense Secretary Leon Panetta. Since leaving Africa Command last year, Ward has served
as a special assistant to the Army’s vice chief of staff,
according to Army spokesman George Wright. Wright didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment from Ward.  In an April 23 letter to the inspector general that was
cited in the report, Ward denied wrongdoing, saying the disputed
trips involved official business for Africa Command.  The inspector general’s investigation found Ward spent
public money on trips to  New York  City in 2010 and Atlanta in
2011 “when the primary purpose was personal,” in violation of
federal guidance and military policy, according to the report,
which was dated June 26.  Wife’s Travels  The inspector general found Ward allowed his wife to
accompany him on military aircraft 15 times “for purposes that
were not unquestionably official” and without reimbursing the
 U.S. Treasury .  “The statement that my wife sat someone down and said to
make provisions to take her on every trip is an obvious
misrepresentation and character assassination,” Ward wrote.
“The portrayal in the allegations that we were ‘hunting’ for
reasons for my wife to travel is so misleading as to be false.”  The inspector general found Ward permitted his staff to
rent cars at government expense “to run personal errands and to
drive Mrs. Ward for unofficial purposes, such as to a spa and a
department store,” in violation of federal travel regulations,
according to the report.  Ward described the spa trip as “likely a case of stopping
off to purchase hair or other grooming products for a family
member in Stuttgart or on the continent,” according to his
letter.  “It was certainly not as characterized, a day trip to the
spa for personal reasons,” the general said.  The inspector general stood by the conclusion, saying
Ward’s wife “went to an ‘appointment’ at a spa.”  Broadway Tickets  The inspector general found the 2011 trip to Atlanta and
the use of a $700 hotel suite in  Bermuda  during a refueling stop
in May 2010 showed Ward failed to comply with requirements to
“protect and conserve resources” and to “exercise prudence in
travel.”  Ward accepted “complimentary meals and Broadway show
tickets in excess of $20 in value for himself and his wife from
a prohibited source with multiple DoD contracts,” in violation
of ethics rules, the report found. The name of the “prohibited
source” was blacked out.  Ward said in his letter that he didn’t know the source
“had business dealings in the defense contract environment and
was therefore a ‘prohibited source.’”  Annual Party  The report also found Ward spent more than $34,000 a year
on a one-day holiday party held at his residence in 2009 and
again in 2010. Ward brought a “protocol specialist” from the
U.S. to Stuttgart,  Germany , where Africa Command is based, for a
month to help organize the party, according to the report.  Ward said use of the specialist “supported a training
program and execution requirement for a very important official
function.”  The general served as head of Africa Command, the newest of
six regional geographic commands, from Oct. 1, 2007, to March 9,
2011.  Panetta is reviewing a variety of disciplinary measures for
Ward, with nothing ruled out, according to an Army official who
spoke on condition of anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to
speak publicly about the confidential investigation.  The inspector general called in the report for Army
Secretary John McHugh to take “appropriate action” on Ward and
conduct additional analysis to determine whether he should
reimburse the government for unofficial travel on military
aircraft. McHugh also should determine whether Ward should
reimburse the government for travel expenses that exceeded
government limits, according to the report.  As head of Africa Command, Ward was a four-star general,
the highest rank in the Army. He is considered a two-star
general in his current position, though no decision has been
made on the rank at which he will retire, the official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  