-- German Stocks Advance; U.S. Economic Data Beats Forecasts
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-08-17T16:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/german-stocks-rise-before-u-s-consumer-confidence-report.html
German stocks  advanced to a four-
month high as measures of consumer confidence and leading
economic indicators in the U.S. exceeded forecasts.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s two biggest
lenders, climbed more than 3 percent.  Daimler AG (DAI)  rose 2.6
percent as a gauge of carmakers posted the best performance of
the 19 industry groups on the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)   The  DAX Index (DAX)  gained 0.6 percent to 7,040.88 at the close
in Frankfurt, rising to its highest level since April 2. The
benchmark measure has  rallied 18 percent  from this year’s low on
June 5 as central banks around the world took steps to bolster
economic growth. The broader HDAX Index added 0.7 percent today.  “Signs of recovery in the U.S. are reassuring for
investors in global companies, car manufacturers, as America is
much more important for them than, for instance, southern
 Europe ,” said Juergen Meyer, head of European equities at SEB
Asset Management in Frankfurt, which has 2 billion euros ($2.5
billion) under management. “Real world-leading companies
needn’t worry about local recessions.”  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
August  index of consumer sentiment  increased to 73.6, the
highest level since May, from 72.3 in July. The  median forecast 
of 72 economists surveyed by Bloomberg had called for a reading
of 72.2. A separate release showed that a measure of leading
economic indicators gained 0.4 percent in July. Economists had
projected the gauge would rise 0.2 percent, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  “There is a realization that the economic data is not as
bad as people expected,” said Raimund Saxinger, a  fund manager 
at Frankfurt-Trust Investment GmbH, which oversees about $22
billion. “The numbers from the U.S. today confirm this.‘‘  German Consent  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , speaking in Canada
yesterday, backed the European Central Bank’s requirement that
indebted countries meet conditions in return for help reducing
their borrowing costs. She also said that Germany is ‘‘in line’’
with the ECB’s approach to defend the euro.  Commerzbank and Deutsche Bank climbed 3.3 percent to 1.26
euros and 3.5 percent to 26.72 euros respectively. A gauge of
European lenders contributed the most to the Stoxx 600’s advance
amid continued speculation that the European Union will soon
disburse the first tranche of its 100 billion-euro bailout to
Spain’s most debt-stricken banks.  Daimler, the world’s third-biggest maker of  luxury
vehicles , added 2.6 percent to 41.82 euros. A measure of
European auto stocks rose 2.1 percent.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the  largest maker of luxury
vehicles , advanced 2.5 percent to 61.46 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  