-- Ghavami Defense Quizzes Witness on Whether Law Was Broken
-- B y   E m i l y   G r a n n i s
-- 2012-08-17T19:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/ghavami-defense-quizzes-witness-on-whether-law-was-broken.html
Defense lawyers for three ex- UBS AG (UBSN) 
municipal bond traders questioned prosecutors’ claims that the 
transactions their clients made amounted to breaking the law.  Attorneys for Peter Ghavami, the former head of UBS’s
municipal derivatives group, and Gary Heinz and Michael Welty,
former vice presidents and marketers in the group, today pressed
an admitted bid-rigger cooperating with the government in the
trial in federal court in  New York .  The witness, Douglas Goldberg, pleaded guilty to bid-
rigging in 2010. He testified yesterday that Ghavami and Heinz
rigged bids with him when they were at  JPMorgan Chase (JPM) , and later
during their time at UBS, by submitting intentionally losing
bids on some deals and sometimes being told what all the other
bids were before submitting their own.  Marc Mukasey , a lawyer for Heinz, asked Goldberg whether
any U.S. Treasury regulation required bond bidders to “try
their hardest every time to win” or “be aggressive every
time.”  Goldberg said there were no such requirements, but said the
defendants had not simply submitted low bids by accident or
decided not to put in the effort.  Charles Stillman , a lawyer for Ghavami, asked Goldberg
whether regulations in effect while Ghavami and Heinz were at
JPMorgan prohibited “last looks.”  “I still don’t know if that’s true or not,” Goldberg told
jurors. “Word for word I don’t think it’s in there” before
1999 he said, adding, “I won’t remember without reading every
single page.”  Goldberg, a former senior vice president at CDR Financial
Products Inc., is testifying as part of a cooperation agreement
with the government. He faces as long as 35 years in prison when
he is sentenced for one count of bid-rigging and two of fraud.  Ghavami, Heinz and Welty are charged with conspiracy to
defraud municipal issuers and U.S. tax authorities, and with
wire and mail fraud.  The case is U.S. v. Ghavami, 10-cr-1217, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emily Grannis in New York
at   egrannis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 