-- Gold Bulls Expand as Billionaire Paulson Buys Metal: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-08-17T15:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/gold-bulls-expand-as-billionaire-paulson-buys-metal-commodities.html
Gold traders are the most bullish in
six weeks as investors boosted their bullion holdings to a
record on concern that economic growth is slowing and after
billionaires  John Paulson  and  George Soros  bought more metal.  Fourteen of 26 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect prices
to rise next week and six were bearish. A further six were
neutral, making the proportion of bulls the highest since July
6. Paulson raised his stake in the SPDR Gold Trust, the biggest
gold-backed exchange-traded product, by 26 percent in the second
quarter and Soros more than doubled his holding, U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission filings showed Aug. 14. Global  holdings 
reached a record on Aug. 10, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The euro-area contracted in the second quarter after the
worsening debt crisis forced at least six nations into
recessions, European Union data showed Aug. 14. Gold bar and
coin purchases jumped 15 percent in  Europe  in the period, the
World Gold Council said yesterday. U.S. growth cooled in the
three months through June and  China ’s slowdown may extend into a
seventh quarter after export growth collapsed in July and
industrial production and lending missed economists’ forecasts.  “The monetary affairs of the world probably play the most
important role for gold prices going forward,” said Thorsten Polleit, chief economist at Degussa Goldhandel GmbH, a precious
metal trading and investment company in  Frankfurt . “The slowing
economy will boost calls for easier monetary policy. This is
adding a further boost to gold.”  Gold Prices  Gold rose 3.3 percent to $1,618 an ounce on the Comex in
 New York  this year, extending 11 consecutive annual gains. That
compares with a 3.5 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
gauge of 24 commodities and an 8.6 percent advance in the MSCI
All-Country World  Index (MXWD)  of equities. Treasuries returned 1.1
percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  European gold bar and coin demand rose to 77.6 metric tons
in the latest quarter and jewelry demand should pick up in  Asia 
during the second half on seasonal wedding and festival
purchases, the London-based gold council said. Investors bought
about $1.1 billion of gold through ETPs this month and held a
record 2,417.3 tons on Aug. 10, data show.  Paulson & Co., which owns the biggest stake in the SPDR
Gold Trust, increased its holdings to 21.8 million shares in the
three months through June. The New York-based $21 billion hedge
fund firm had more than 44 percent of its U.S. traded equities
tied to bullion, or 16 percent excluding the SPDR Gold Trust
product, the filing showed. Paulson uses his stake in the
product to back shares that are denominated in gold.  Soros Fund Management LLC raised its stake to 884,400
shares. Spokesmen for both investors declined to comment earlier
this week.  Central Bank Action  Slowing growth may spur more action from central banks.
Chinese state media reported Aug. 15 that Premier  Wen Jiabao  saw
room to adjust monetary policy, European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  promised last month to do whatever it takes to
preserve the euro and the  Federal Reserve  pledged on Aug. 1 to
ease policy further if necessary. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
may talk about monetary options at a conference in  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming , at the end of the month.  Hedge funds  and other money managers mirrored the 9.5
percent drop in prices since the end of February, slashing bets
on a rally by 57 percent in the period, U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission  data  show. The net-long position fell 11
percent in the week to Aug. 7 and is near the lowest since 2008.  Coin Sales  There are signs of slowing physical demand, with sales of
American Eagle gold coins by the  U.S. Mint  dropping 49 percent
to 30,500 ounces last month, the lowest since April. The mint
sold 9,000 ounces so far in August, data on its website show.  Gold imports by  India , last year’s biggest buyer, slid 56
percent from a year earlier to 131 tons in the second quarter,
the gold council said. Below-average monsoon rain this year has
stoked concerns about rural jewelry demand, given people’s
dependence on farming and the potential impact of a poor harvest
on income levels, the industry group said. Local prices reached
a record in June, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The metal’s average of $1,642 an ounce so far this year
would be the most ever if sustained through Dec. 31, even after
prices slumped 16 percent from the September record. Some of the
demand is coming from central banks and the gold council
predicts they may add close to 500 tons to reserves this year.  In other commodities, 10 of 26 traders and analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg expect copper to fall next week and eight
predicted a gain. The metal for delivery in three months, the
London Metal Exchange’s benchmark contract, declined 0.9 percent
to $7,531 a ton this year.  Sugar Survey  Six of 12 people surveyed said raw sugar will fall next
week and four expect an increase. The commodity slid 13 percent
to 20.38 cents a pound since the start of January on ICE Futures
U.S. in New York.  Thirteen of 27 people surveyed anticipate higher corn
prices next week and 10 were bearish, while 15 of 28 said
soybeans will increase and 10 predicted declines. Corn jumped 25
percent to $8.1075 a bushel in  Chicago  this year and reached a
record $8.49 on Aug. 10 as the worst U.S. drought in a half-
century damaged crops. Soybeans set an all-time high July 23 and
are up 36 percent this year at $16.3875 a bushel.  The S&P GSCI gauge of raw materials rallied 19 percent
since June 21, climbing to within 1 percentage point of a so-
called  bull market . Commodities will return 27 percent in 12
months, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a July 16 report.  “Fiscal and/or monetary stimulus most likely is needed to
make commodities advance further,” said Filip Petersson, an
analyst at SEB AB in  Stockholm . “Agricultural prices however
are likely to have reached a peak unless additional severe
weather disturbances hit. Demand destruction and rising
ambitions for next year’s crop are likely to hold back prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  