-- Google Says It Didn’t Pay Bloggers to Cover Oracle Lawsuit
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-08-17T23:57:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/google-says-it-didn-t-pay-bloggers-to-write-about-oracle-suit.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  said it didn’t pay
people to write about  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s lawsuit against it over
Android software, although nonprofits, universities and trade
groups receiving Google money have commented on the case.  Oracle alleged Google maintains a network of direct and
indirect “influencers” to advance its intellectual property
agenda, according to a filing today in federal court in  San
Francisco . Oracle has hired one writer, Florian Mueller, author
of the FOSS Patents blog, as a consultant, not to blog about the
lawsuit, Oracle said. Mueller has written extensively on the
lawsuit.  “Oracle believes that Google brought this extensive
network of influencers to help shape public perceptions
concerning the positions it was advocating throughout this
trial,” attorney  Michael Jacobs  said in a filing.  A jury found May 7 that  Mountain View , California-based
Google, owner of the world’s most-popular search engine,
infringed Oracle’s copyrights when it developed Android software
for mobile devices yet deadlocked on whether the copying was
“fair use.” That denied Oracle the ability to seek as much as
$1 billion in damages from the search engine company. The jury
found May 23 that Google didn’t infringe two Oracle patents.  Both companies filed papers in court today responding to a
judge’s order to disclose payments to journalists, bloggers and
commenters. U.S. District Judge William Alsup, who has presided
over the lawsuit, said Aug. 7 that disclosure is needed to make
clear whether anything written about the case is “possibly
influenced by financial relationships to the parties or
counsel.”  Quid-Pro-Quo  Google said there were no quid-pro-quo payments to people
for coverage, and that commentators at entities which receive
donations or financial support from Google weren’t paid to write
about the case. It would be “extraordinarily difficult and
perhaps impossible” for Google to identify all individuals who
wrote about the case and are affiliated with Google-funded
entities, lawyers for the search engine company said.  “Google does not believe that individuals or organizations
within these categories were intended to be encompassed within
the scope of the court’s order,” Google lawyers said in the
filing. They asked Alsup to let them know if he wants a “a more
comprehensive list.”  Oracle,  Redwood City ,  California , said Google’s
“influencers” network included  Ed Black , president of the
Computer and Communications Industry Association, which received
Google money. Black wrote a column advocating against copyrights
for application programing interfaces, or APIs, a position
Google took at trial. Black said in a phone interview that
Google didn’t ask him to write the column.  “The position we have had on APIs goes back to the
1990s,” Black said in a phone interview. “They seem so
desperate to pick on us. We’ve had these positions for years.”  Washington Attorney  Oracle also cited Jonathan Band, a Washington attorney and
co-author of “Interfaces On Trial 2.0,” a 2011 book that
argues APIs can’t be protected by copyright. Google cited the
book in an April court brief in the case, Oracle said. Band has
an indirect relationship to Google through Google-supported
trade groups, Oracle’s lawyers said in the filing, citing a
legal newspaper story.  Band said he is a registered lobbyist for CCIA and another
group to which Google belongs. His book was accepted for
publication by MIT Press, a year before Oracle sued Google, he
said in an e-mail. The book is based on articles written before
2005 while Band was a partner at Morrison & Foerster, the firm
representing Oracle in its lawsuit against Google, Band said.  Asked to respond to Oracle’s claims, Jim Prosser, a
spokesman for Google, said in an e-mail, “Our reply to the
court is clear; no one on our side paid journalists, bloggers,
or other commentators to write about this case.”  The case is Oracle v. Google, 10-3561, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  