-- Groupon Drops to Record on Billings Slump: Chicago Mover
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2012-08-17T20:19:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/groupon-drops-to-record-on-billings-slump-chicago-mover.html
Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  tumbled to a record low
after  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  downgraded shares of the daily-deal
website, citing a potential for billings to decline.  The shares retreated 5 percent to $4.75 at the close in New
York, the lowest  price  since an initial public offering in
November. The stock has lost 76 percent since the IPO.  The Chicago-based company makes money by selling discounts
-- known as Groupons -- from businesses such as restaurants and
nail salons. It then splits the revenue with the businesses.
Groupon earlier this week reported second-quarter revenue that
missed estimates as economic weakness in  Europe  curbed online
coupon sales.  “We see potential for future cash burn assuming billings
declines persist as the deteriorating impact of ‘changes in
accounts payable’ could be enough to offset growth in income
earned,” said Ken Sena, an analyst at Evercore in  New York , in
a research report. He downgraded the shares to underweight and
cut the price estimate to $3 from $6.50.  International revenue, which makes up more than half of the
total, was reduced by currency weakness and a lack of demand for
big-ticket items in Europe, Groupon executives said on Aug. 13
when the company reported second-quarter earnings.  A larger portion of sales came from Groupon Goods, an e-
commerce site for marked-down products. The service made up most
of the company’s $65.4 million in direct revenue, which more
than tripled from $19.2 million in the first quarter, Chief
Financial Officer Jason Child said on a conference call with
analysts.  The economic climate in Europe, as well as anticipated
increases in marketing expenses needed to attract new customers,
are depressing shares,  Sameet Sinha , a San Francisco-based
analyst at B Riley & Co., said in an interview.  “Growth is contracting and the new Groupon Goods business
has very low margins,” Sinha said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chaykowski in New York at 
 kchaykowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  