-- Guler Buys 55% of Credit Agricole Cheuvreux Turkey Unit
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-08-17T09:24:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/guler-buys-55-of-credit-agricole-cheuvreux-turkey-unit-1-.html
Guler Yatirim Holding AS (GLRYH) , a Turkish
investment group, agreed to buy 54.7 percent of  Credit Agricole 
Cheuvreux Menkul Degerler AS, the Istanbul-based securities unit
of  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , as the French lender scales back.  Guler Yatirim plans to grow in advisory services, asset
management and arranging initial public offerings through the
acquisition, the company said in an e-mailed statement today.  Credit Agricole Cheuvreux Menkul Degerler had a loss of
1.45 million liras ($810,000) in the second quarter, compared
with a 1.04 million-liras loss in the year-earlier period,
according to Istanbul Stock Exchange data.  The divestment follows Credit Agricole’s move to sell its
entire stake in Credit Agricole Yatirim Bankasi Turk AS, an
Istanbul-based unit that offers corporate and investment
banking, to  Standard Chartered Plc. (STAN)   “The remaining 45 percent is also sold to a Turkish
investor who will remain anonymous until regulatory approvals
are taken,” Ayse Elci Terzi, the chief executive officer of
Guler Yatirim Holding, said in a telephone interview.  Guler Yatirim rose 2.3 percent to 1.31 liras by 11:33 a.m.
in Istanbul trading, the highest level since December.  Scaling Back  Credit Agricole CEO Jean-Paul Chifflet is trimming the
bank’s balance sheet and cutting costs, like French rivals  BNP
Paribas SA (BNP)  and  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , amid higher capital demands
from regulators and a decline in trading and underwriting
commissions. Credit Agricole is shedding 1,750 jobs at its
corporate and investment-banking division and closing operations
in 21 countries.  Citic Securities Co.,  China ’s largest brokerage by market
value, agreed to buy Credit Agricole’s CLSA unit for $1.25
billion, the companies said July 23. The French bank has entered
exclusive talks to sell its other brokerage, CA Cheuvreux, to
Kepler Capital Markets SA, and received bids from Greece’s
biggest lenders,  National Bank of Greece SA ,  Eurobank Ergasias
SA (EUROB)  and Alpha Bank AE, for its unprofitable Emporiki Bank unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  