-- Gulf Coast Gasoline, Diesel, Strengthen After Refinery Issues
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-08-17T18:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/gulf-coast-gasoline-diesel-strengthen-after-refinery-issues.html
Gulf Coast  gasoline and diesel rose
after refineries reported maintenance and an electrical
interruption, raising speculation that production may be slowed.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA’s (PBR)  Pasadena refinery in Texas shut a
crude unit for “corrective” maintenance through Aug. 19,
Sophie Gates, a company spokeswoman in Houston, said in an e-
mail yesterday. Exxon Mobil Corp. expects production at its
Beaumont, Texas, refinery to be affected after a  power failure 
caused multiple unit upsets, Kathleen Jackson, a Beaumont-based
spokeswoman for Exxon, said in an e-mail yesterday.  The discount for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in the
Gulf Coast narrowed 2.25 cents to 13 cents a gallon versus
futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 1:57 p.m.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Prompt delivery fell
2.11 cents to $2.9096 a gallon.  The premium for ultra-low-sulfur diesel  at the hub  rose
0.32 cent to 8.25 a gallon versus Nymex heating oil futures.  Power has been restored and the 345,000-barrel-per-day
Beaumont plant is resuming normal operations, Jackson said. She
didn’t immediately respond to questions in an e-mail today about
whether operations were fully restored at the plant.  The discount for conventional gasoline to be blended with
ethanol, or CBOB, in New York Harbor, narrowed 1 cent to 1.13
cents a gallon.  Hess Corp. reported an emissions violation at its Port
Reading refinery in  New Jersey , according to a filing with state
regulators.  The violation was because of a “non-operational”
malfunction, the filing yesterday showed.  The 70,000-barrel-a-day plant is conducting minor
maintenance that has no impact on operations, the company said
in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 