-- Life Partners Judge Grants Temporary Restraining Order
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   K e l l e y   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-08-17T22:33:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/life-partners-judge-says-she-will-grant-restraining-order.html
Life Partners Holdings Inc. and its
Life Partners Inc. unit, an investor-financed buyer of insurance
policy death benefits, were barred by a judge in Texas from
dissipating assets or destroying records.  Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott  sued the company on
Aug. 15, claiming the policy interests it sold were unregistered
securities and that Life Partners misled investors about the
life expectancies of the insured to generate revenue. He asked
the court to bar the allegedly unlawful conduct.  Judge Orlinda Naranjo today signed a two-week restraining
order after more than two hours of argument in state court in
Austin. She struck proposed language barring Life Partners from
engaging in fraud or selling unregistered securities, telling
the lawyers those issues went to the heart of the dispute.  Naranjo scheduled an injunction hearing for Aug. 30. The
judge didn’t rule on the attorney general’s request to appoint a
receiver for the firm. Life Partners fell 18 percent to $1.96 in
Nasdaq Stock market trading today.  “We’re pleased that we’re able to continue our operations
in our ordinary course of business,” Life Partners President
Scott Peden said as he left the courthouse. Peden and Chief
Executive Officer Brian Pardo are defendants in the lawsuit.
Waco, Texas-based Life Partners and Pardo yesterday denied the
attorney general’s allegations.  Securities Board  Abbott sued on behalf of the  Texas  State Securities Board.
Robert Elder, a spokesman for board, declined to comment on
Naranjo’s order.  “In order to protect investors, the state moved swiftly to
secure much-needed protections from the court,” Abbott said in
a  statement . “Given the firm’s precarious financial state, it
was extremely important that safeguards be imposed to protect
investors.”  The restraining order, which also apples to Pardo and
Peden, bars the company from paying dividends or executive
salary increases or bonuses, the attorney general said.  Life Partners has more than 29,000 investors across the
U.S., according to the attorney general. As of Dec. 31, 2010,
units of the company held 3,879 policies, of which 3,152 were
beyond the  life expectancy  estimates investors were told,
according to the complaint.  Used Car  Shorter life-expectancies meant the policies would pay out
more quickly, according to Abbott’s complaint. He compared it to
rolling back the odometer on a used car to boost its apparent
value.  “The value of these products is driven by the life
expectancy,” Jennifer Jackson, an attorney for the state, told
Naranjo today. “A shorter life expectancy means a higher
price.”  A doctor used by Life Partners to compute insureds’ life
expectancies from 1999 until March 2011 was returning estimates
that were “significantly too short,” the state’s lawyer said.  Defense lawyer Elizabeth Yingling disputed Jackson’s life-
estimate assertions.  “Nobody can predict when somebody is going to die,” she
told Naranjo today. The Life Partners lawyer also said the
company was fiscally sound and said Abbott was asking the court
to shut down a public company, causing “irreparable harm.”  ‘Dire’ Situation  “Revenues have declined rapidly, escrow accounts are
depleting, policies are at risk, and the companies will be out
of cash in as early as two months,” according to Abbott.
Despite the “dire financial situation,” the company was set to
pay a $1.8 million quarterly dividend next month, Abbott said.  “Pardo, either directly or through his Pardo Family Trust,
will benefit from this dividend by approximately $900,000,”
Abbott said in the complaint.  “We deny the allegations in the strongest possible
terms,” Pardo said in a company statement yesterday. “We did
not misrepresent our life settlements. The life expectancy
estimates we provided to purchasers were made by a third party
in good faith.”  Pardo called Abbott’s claim that the company was nearing
insolvency “spurious” and said the business had more than
$10 million in cash and $45 million in assets.  He also said Texas courts and a federal appeals court had
reviewed the companies’ life settlements and ruled they aren’t
securities.  The case is Texas v.  Life Partners Holdings Inc. (LPHI) , D-1-GV-
12-001128, District Court of Travis County, Texas, 201st
Judicial District (Austin).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Kelley Shannon in Austin, Texas at  kelley@kelleyshannon.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  