-- Impact of U.S. Drought on Crops May Be Peaking, Vilsack Says
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-08-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/impact-of-u-s-drought-on-crops-may-be-peaking-vilsack-says.html
The severity of the worst U.S.
drought in 56 years may be peaking, while its effects on corn
and soybeans, the nation’s two biggest crops, may not be known
until the harvests, Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said.  The steadying of weather conditions may limit food
inflation next year, which the  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
predicted last month would be 3 percent to 4 percent, Vilsack
said yesterday in an interview at the Iowa State Fair in  Des
Moines . It may also ease pressure to relax federal requirements
for the use of corn to make ethanol, he said.  “The overall impact of the drought is beginning to
decline,” Vilsack said. The uneven effects of the persistent
dryness, which vary from farm to farm, make any crop predictions
difficult, he said. “I’m not sure we know all we need to know
to understand what’s happening with this crop.”  The  condition  of the soybean crop improved last week for
the first time this year, and corn’s good-to-excellent ratings
steadied at 23 percent, as rain and cooler temperatures reduced
plant stress, the USDA said this week. The drought in states
excluding Alaska and  Hawaii  eased last week to 61.8 percent from
62.5 percent, with improvement in all categories of severity
except for the worst, the  U.S. Drought Monitor  reported.  Persistent Drought  Drought conditions will persist in much of the Corn Belt
and Great Plains states through November, the  National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration  said yesterday in a report. Lower
temperatures and rain forecast for parts of the Midwest won’t be
enough to snap the drought that has pushed crop prices up for
months, said Joel Widenor, co-founder of Commodity Weather Group
LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland , this week.  Corn futures traded in  Chicago  have surged 60 percent since
mid-June, closing yesterday at $8.075 a bushel, while soybeans
have jumped 24 percent, prompting the  United Nations  to predict
higher global food costs.  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , the largest U.S.
meat processor, said Aug. 6 profit will be lower after the
company was forced to pay more for grain to feed animals.  Much of the damage has already been done to the corn crop,
which passed through the critical pollination stage in the heart
of the drought, while there’s still some hope for soybeans,
which mature later in the season,  Iowa  Farm Bureau Federation
President Craig Hill said this week in an interview.  Further Impact  Vilsack said that even as the USDA tries to ascertain the
size and condition of this year’s harvests, it’s starting to
look at the drought’s further impacts on the farm economy.  “Every day we learn more, every day we can evaluate
more,” he said, adding that his department is starting to
assess the consequences for next year’s crops, in terms of
credit availability and planning.  The USDA, in a monthly report on Aug. 10, forecast a corn
crop of 10.779 billion bushels, down 13 percent from 2011. The
soybean harvest was pegged at 2.692 billion bushels, 12 percent
smaller than last year. The harvests get under way next month.  Jose Graziano da Silva, director-general of the UN’s  Food
and Agriculture Organization , last week called for a suspension
of U.S. ethanol-use rules to let more corn be used for food and
livestock feed.  Jay Carney , White House press secretary, in Iowa
this week told reporters that the USDA and the EPA will be
evaluating data to determine what should be done about requests
for waivers from state officials and more than 175 members of
Congress.  Mandated Use  A 2007 law mandates the use of 13.2 billion gallons of
biofuels such as ethanol this year, rising to 13.6 billion in
2013. The measure is designed to help reduce the nation’s
reliance on oil from overseas sources.  Vilsack, a former governor of Iowa, the biggest U.S.
producer of corn, soybeans, pork and ethanol, said waiving the
requirement may bring long-term harm to investment in biofuel
production without having a major effect on food prices.  “My concern is that we send a signal to investors of
perhaps, less confidence in the industry,” Vilsack said. “We
need to see whether the market is responding” by rationing
demand for biofuels in the face of high prices, he said.  Companies including Poet LLC and  Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM) 
produced 819,000 barrels (34.3 million gallons) of ethanol a day
in the week ended Aug. 10, down 15 percent from a record in
December. Stockpiles sank 1.1 percent to 18.4 million barrels,
the lowest since Dec. 30, Energy Department data show.  At least 25 U.S. senators and 156 House members have signed
letters asking  Lisa Jackson , administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency, to suspend or lower mandates on how much
ethanol the country must use this year and next.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $76.5 billion in
2011, followed by soybeans at $35.8 billion, government figures
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  