-- Lincoln Center Preparing Digital ‘Major Breakthrough’
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-08-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/lincoln-center-preparing-digital-major-breakthrough-.html
Lincoln Center for the  Performing
Arts  is working on a “major breakthrough” in broadcasting
performances digitally, President Reynold Levy said in an
interview.  “We are going to take what’s inside Lincoln Center and
transmit it through the Internet to mobile devices,” Levy said
in an interview to be broadcast on  Bloomberg Radio ’s “A Closer
Look With  Arthur Levitt .”  “We have some work to do on artistic clearances and rights
clearances.”  Levy described the initiative in part as an expansion of
“ Live From Lincoln Center ,” which broadcasts half a dozen
performances a year on public television. The  New York  nonprofit
complex is exploring how to make money from the digital effort.  “It’s the challenge we face and the challenge many other
industries face,” he said. “How do you monetize that product,
how do you make it a source for recurring income?”  He provided few specifics. The  Berlin Philharmonic , for
example, streams 30 high-definition concerts a season to online
subscribers.  High-Definition  The  Metropolitan Opera  in 2010-11 earned about $11 million
profit from high-definition broadcasts to movie theaters
worldwide, or $17 million when including sponsorships, according
to  Peter Clark , a spokesman.  Its  tax return  shows profit from all media of about
$500,000, however, in part because only the costs of its radio
broadcasts are used in calculating total profit from media,
under a reporting requirement for nonprofits.  Clark said contributors, primarily  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) , the
lead sponsor, fund the radio broadcasts.  “Saturday radio is our second-largest media activity
(after HD), but we do not get earned revenue for it -- it’s
free,” Clark said in an e-mail. “Therefore, the net income
from HD is being masked by the net loss from radio.”  Digital distribution is a central issue for performing arts
companies as they try to broaden their audiences, said Michael
Mauskapf, a co-founder of the boutique consultant  Symphony Bros.   “It’s not viewed as a replacement to the traditional
concert experience, but something that augments that,” he said.
“It’s not a short-term money-maker.”  China Consulting  In October 2011, Elizabeth Scott, previously with Major
League Baseball Properties Inc., was named  Lincoln Center ’s
Chief Media & Digital Officer to oversee “digital initiatives
across all of its departments.”  Spokesman Betsy Vorce said yesterday: “It’s very premature
to discuss these really exciting explorations.”  Levy said Lincoln Center’s year-old consulting project in
China is thriving. It’s an adviser in the development of a
performing arts complex in Tianjin, a northern Chinese city.  “It’s part of our effort to create a new economic model
for Lincoln Center, one that isn’t entirely dependent on earned
and contributed income,” he said. “That is going very well.”  Levy defended renaming the New York State Theater after
 David Koch , the billionaire Tea Party activist and industrialist
who pledged $100 million toward renovating it in 2008.  Koch Theater  “We don’t have a political litmus test for service on
Lincoln Center’s board or for philanthropy. I frequently point
out that if we did, I’m not sure we’d enjoy the public libraries
of  Andrew Carnegie  or the philanthropy of many industrialists of
100 years ago who at the time were themselves controversial
actors.”  Levy, who became president in 2002 and presided over an
extensive redevelopment, is the author of “Yours for the
Asking.”  “I honestly believe I am doing a donor a tremendous
favor,” he told Levitt. “I’m fond of saying we promise three
things: a better night’s sleep, a longer life and an
unobstructed pathway to heaven.”  His pay and benefits were listed on Lincoln Center’s 2010-
11 tax return at $1.8 million, $133,333 of which was reported a
year earlier. His current contract expires at the end of 2013.  “We are very serious at Lincoln Center about succession
planning, both at the trustee level and at the CEO level,” Levy
said. “The board has flattered me several times by asking me to
extend my length of stay at Lincoln Center and I’m continuing to
do that. In due course we will announce our plans.”  Levitt is a former chairman of the Securities and Exchange
Commission, a board member of Bloomberg LP, a senior adviser to
the  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  and policy adviser to  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)   Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham ’s  podcast  and NYC
 Weekend Best .  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 