-- India Lost $33 Billion Giving Away Coal Mines, Audit Says
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h   a n d   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y
-- 2012-08-17T10:51:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/india-lost-33-billion-giving-away-coal-mines-auditor-says.html
India ’s policy of allocating coal
mines without auction may have cost the government 1.86 trillion
rupees ($33 billion), the state auditor said in its final report
of mining losses to the exchequer.  The Comptroller & Auditor General of India’s assessment,
presented in the parliament today, said the mines gave undue
benefit to companies including  Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP)  and
Tata Steel Ltd. A Feb. 28 draft, which included state-owned
companies, estimated the loss at 10.7 trillion rupees and
triggered a probe by the  Central Bureau of Investigation .  The report comes at a time when the government is battling
a series of graft charges that have slowed down decision making
and impeded reforms. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , who was in
charge of the coal ministry for part of the period under review,
has been personally blamed by opposition parties for the loss.  “It’s over-simplification of mining valuations,” said
Debasish Mishra, a senior director at Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu
India Pvt. “One can’t compare the valuation of an operational
mine with an unexplored mine as the risks are exponentially high
at the beginning. Whichever mines were allocated for captive use
to companies had no reliable data on reserves.”  The state auditor’s report on issuance of phone permits
sold in 2008 had led to India’s biggest corruption probe and the
arrests of government and company officials, and a cabinet
minister.  Transparent Method  India began allocating coal mines to companies for their
own use in 1993 and gave away 194 blocks with reserves of 44.4
billion tons. Almost half these reserves, spread across 142
blocks, were explored, the auditor said in the report.  “There couldn’t have been a more transparent method of
allocating coal blocks at that time,” Coal Minister Sriprakash
Jaiswal told reporters today in New Delhi. “It was the need of
the hour to involve the private sector to boost coal production,
as  Coal India  alone was unable to meet the rising needs.”  State-run  Coal India Ltd. (COAL)  is the world’s biggest producer
of the fuel.  Of all the coal blocks allocated for captive use, only 30
have started production. Only one among the 57 blocks the state
auditor took up for audit began production, Jaisal said.  The auditor estimated a gain of 295.40 rupees a metric ton
and multiplied the number with the reserves at the captive mines.
The estimate of gain was reached by taking the difference
between the average price of coal and the average of cost of
production at Coal India’s mines in the year ended March 31,
2011.  The estimate considered only open-cast mines. It counted 73
percent of the reserves at open-cast mines and 37 percent of
reserves at mixed mines, according to the report.  India implemented an auction policy for the allocation of
coal mines in 2010. The coal ministry subsequently prepared a
list of 54 coal blocks with reserves of 19 billion tons for
captive allocation. Some of these blocks will be auctioned and
other given away to state-run miners, according to the coal
ministry’s web site.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ; 