-- Indian Bonds Complete Weekly Drop as RBI Sees No Easing Scope
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-08-17T12:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/indian-bonds-set-for-weekly-drop-as-rbi-sees-no-scope-for-easing.html
India ’s bonds completed a weekly
decline after central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said
 inflation  limited room for policy easing to spur growth.  The nation’s  benchmark  price index rose 6.87 percent in
July from a year earlier, a government report on Aug. 14 showed,
the fastest pace among the largest  emerging markets . Consumer
prices rose 5.2 percent in Brazil, 1.8 percent in China and 5.6
percent in Russia last month, according to official figures.
Subbarao left the  repurchase rate  unchanged at 8 percent on July
31. The monetary authority will next review borrowing costs on
Oct. 30.  “Stubborn inflation has reduced the possibility of rate
cuts in the near future,” said Krishnamurthy Harihar, a Mumbai-
based treasurer at the local unit of  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) , South
Africa’s second-largest banking group. “That will be a negative
for the bond market.”  The yield on the 8.15 percent notes due June 2022 rose
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, this week to 8.24
percent in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system. The rate fell three basis points today.  The  Reserve Bank  of India raised its inflation estimate for
the fiscal year through March 2013 to 7 percent from 6.5 percent
on July 31. Sudipto Mundle, a member of the bank’s technical
advisory committee, said in an interview yesterday that the RBI
shouldn’t shift “its focus from inflation.”  “There is just no space for fiscal or monetary response,”
Subbarao said in a speech on Aug. 13.  India must damp inflation, allow more foreign investment to
boost growth and raise diesel prices to contain subsidies that
have fanned a budget deficit, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
economic panel said today.  One-year  interest-rate swaps , or derivative contracts used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, climbed seven
basis points this week to 7.81 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The rate fell two basis points today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  