-- Indonesia’s Coffee Deliveries Said by Volcafe Slowing on Holiday
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-08-17T12:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/indonesia-s-coffee-deliveries-said-by-volcafe-slowing-on-holiday.html
Deliveries of coffee from farms in
 Indonesia , the world’s third-biggest robusta grower, slowed this
week because of the Muslim holiday of Eid, according to Volcafe,
the coffee unit of commodities trader ED&F Man Holdings Ltd.  Bean arrivals were about 9,000 metric tons this week, the
Winterthur, Switzerland-based trader said in a report e-mailed
today. That compares with 16,000 to 17,000 tons last week.
Indonesia is harvesting its 2012-13 crop that started in April.
Eid marks the end of the fasting month of Ramadan.  “Coffee arrivals slowed down,” Volcafe said, adding that
buyers were paying a bigger premium for Indonesian beans.  Coffee from Indonesia for shipment in September and October
was at a premium of $50 a ton to the price on the NYSE Liffe
exchange in London, up from a premium of $30 a ton last week,
data from the trader showed.  Exports from the port of Panjang were 39,835 tons, “in
line for this time of the year,” the trader said. Shipments
from January to July were 109,000 tons, it added.  In  Vietnam , the biggest robusta grower, rainfall is below
average at the peak of the wet season, according to the report.
Trading slowed as sellers retained the remaining stocks
from the 2011-12 season, Volcafe said.  Buyers of Vietnamese beans were paying a premium of $50 a
ton to the exchange price for shipment in September and October,
data from the trader showed. That compares with the same prices
as on the exchange last week.  In  India , rains have returned to the coffee belt. Limited
availability of beans and “high” domestic demand has sent
premiums “through the roof,” the trader said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 