-- Japan-S. Korea Currency-Swap Deal Put at Risk by Island Squabble
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2012-08-17T04:47:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/japan-s-korea-currency-swap-deal-put-at-risk-by-island-squabble.html
Japan will reconsider a decision to
expand a foreign exchange swap agreement with  South Korea  amid
rising tensions over a disputed island chain that have strained
diplomatic ties.  “We made the agreement considering the severe economic
situation in South Korea at that time,” Japan’s Finance
Minister  Jun Azumi  told reporters today in Tokyo. “We will
reconsider the handling of the temporary expansion.”  Japan has curtailed its cooperation with South Korea
following President  Lee Myung Bak ’s visit to a string of islets
claimed by both nations on Aug. 10. Japan recalled its
ambassador to South Korea in protest and Azumi canceled a
meeting scheduled for this month with his counterpart Bahk Jae Wan.  An existing swap agreement between the two sides was
expanded to $70 billion in October from $13 billion during a
meeting between Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  and Lee.
The swap was designed to offer the nations protection from
funding shocks as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis deepens and
demand in South Korea and Japan’s largest export markets slow.  Separately, Japan, China, South Korea and 10 Southeast
Asian nations agreed in May to boost the so-called  Chiang Mai 
Initiative Multilateralization agreement, which involves a pool
of foreign-currency reserves, to $240 billion from $120 billion.  Chiang Mai  “There is nothing to worry about even if Japan decides
against extending the  currency swap  because South Korea already
has the Chiang Mai initiative,” South Korean Presidential
Spokeswoman Lee Mi Yon said yesterday by telephone, ahead of
Azumi’s remarks.  The rift between two of  Asia ’s largest economies deepened
on Aug. 14 when Lee called on Japanese Emperor Akihito to
“sincerely” apologize to resistance fighters who died during
Japan’s colonial occupation. Azumi cited Lee’s demand as one
factor in his decision to cancel his trip, along with the
dispute over the islands known as Dokdo in Korean and Takeshima
in Japanese.  “I’ve decided to cancel my trip because of President Lee’s
visit to Takeshima and following his remarks about the Japanese
Emperor, which I consider incredibly rude,” Azumi said today.  The two countries are also mired in a dispute over
compensating women who served as sex slaves during Japan’s
colonial occupation of Korea, which contributed to the last
minute postponement of a defense pact in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in  Tokyo  at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  