-- July’s Jobless Rate Up in Most Presidential Battlegrounds
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-08-17T18:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/july-s-jobless-rate-up-in-most-presidential-battlegrounds.html
The  unemployment rate  rose last
month in every battleground state in the presidential election
except Ohio.  Employers still added jobs in more than half of the
electoral swing states, indicating progress in local economies.
Competition for job openings heightened as more people resumed
looking for work.  The trend, captured in state-level data released today by
the U.S. Labor Department, parallels changes in the nationwide
employment picture. National  unemployment  rose to 8.3 percent in
July even as employers added 163,000 jobs during the month.  In an election dominated by economic concerns, President
 Barack Obama  has benefited from better local conditions in many
of the states where he and Republican  Mitt Romney  have
concentrated their efforts.  The movements in state-level joblessness aren’t big enough
to have a significant impact on voting, said  Dan Schnur , a
campaign adviser to Republican presidential candidate  John McCain ’s first bid for the White House in 2000.  “At this point, voters have made up their minds about the
economy,” said Schnur, director of the Unruh Institute of
Politics at the University of  Southern California  in Los
Angeles. “They’re not frightened any more but they’re a long
way from being satisfied. It would take a very, very dramatic
change to alter their perceptions.”  Campaign Targets  Moody’s Analytics Inc., which forecasts presidential
election results based solely on state-by-state economic data
and past voting behavior, predicted Obama winning 303 electoral
votes earlier this month.  A candidate needs to capture 270 Electoral College votes to
win the presidency. The 12 swing states, which have historically
been competitive or are targeted by one of the campaigns, have a
combined total of 151 votes. Not all of them will be in play
this November.  The Labor Department report shows swing-state voters
confronted a tighter job market in July, except for Ohio, where
the unemployment rate was steady at 7.2 percent. Ohio’s economy
has been aided by the rebound of the  auto industry  and a surge
in oil and natural gas development through the use of a
technique known as hydraulic fracturing, or fracking.  Ohio was one of only six states that didn’t experience a
rise in its unemployment rate.  Rising Jobless Rates  Joblessness in Nevada surged to 12 percent from 11.6
percent last month after declining or holding steady for three
straight months. Florida unemployment, which rose to 8.8 percent
from 8.6 percent, was up for the first time since March.  In other focal points of the campaign, unemployment in
Colorado rose to 8.3 percent from 8.2 percent; in Iowa to 5.3
percent from 5.1 percent; in New Hampshire to 5.4 percent from
5.1 percent; in  Pennsylvania  to 7.9 percent from 7.6 percent;
and in  Virginia  to 5.9 percent from 5.7 percent.  Among other states that the presidential campaigns have
targeted, unemployment in Michigan rose to 9 percent from 8.6
percent; in  New Mexico  to 6.6 percent from 6.5 percent; in  North
Carolina  to 9.6 percent from 9.4 percent; and in  Wisconsin  to
7.3 percent from 7 percent.  Employers added jobs in July in Colorado, Iowa, Michigan,
Nevada, New Mexico, North Carolina, Ohio and Virginia.  Michigan showed the second-largest gain in payrolls, adding
21,800 jobs in July, behind only California. Virginia was third,
with a 21,300 gain.  Payrolls declined in Florida, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania
and Wisconsin.  Nationally, payrolls grew in 31 states last month.  State and local employment data are derived independently
from the national statistics, which are typically released on
the first Friday of every month. The state figures are subject
to larger sampling errors because they come from smaller
surveys, making the national figures more reliable, according to
the government’s Bureau of Labor Statistics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  