-- KBR Must Face Guardsmen’s Toxic-Chromium Suit, Judge Says
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-08-17T22:03:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/kbr-must-face-guardsmen-s-chromium-poisoning-claims-judge-says.html
KBR Inc. (KBR)  must face a trial on claims
that it knowingly exposed U.S. troops to toxic chromium dust in
2003 while they were guarding a company work site in  Iraq , a
Houston judge ruled.  Dozens of U.S. national guardsmen from  Indiana  and  West
Virginia  have sued the Houston-based military contractor over
health problems they blame on exposure to hexavalent chromium
dust, a carcinogenic orange-yellow powder used to fight
corrosion in water pipes. The troops were guarding KBR workers
as they tried to restore water treatment facilities at the
Quarmat Ali oil production site.  KBR had argued the case couldn’t be tried without asking
jurors to judge actions and decisions by the U.S. military,
which is forbidden by law. U.S. District Judge Vanessa Gilmore
yesterday rejected that argument.  “Because KBR played a significant role in assessing and
responding to the hazards, the issue of whether KBR caused
plaintiffs’ injuries may be resolved without second-guessing the
military’s decisions,’’ she said in a 15-page ruling. She said
the case could be tried without evaluating military policies or
“expressing a lack of respect for the military’s decisions.’’  Sarah Ui Mhuirgheasa, KBR’s spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to a call or e-mail requesting comment on the ruling.  “This is a very important step in uncovering what KBR has
tried really hard to keep a lid on at Quarmat Ali,’’ Mike Doyle,
lead attorney for the soldiers, said in a phone interview today.
“Two soldiers have died, and all these men have health issues
to some degree. They really want this evidence to come out.’’  He said jury selection could start in September.  The case is McManaway v KBR Inc., 4:10-cv-1044, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this case:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  