-- Kerry Outpaces Ryanair as Push Rewards Shareholders
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-08-21T06:47:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/kerry-outpaces-ryanair-as-ceo-keeps-hunting-for-acquisitions.html
(Corrects location of McCormick’s headquarters in fifth
paragraph of story published Aug. 17.)  Shares in  Kerry Group Plc (KYG)  outpaced
all its global peers in the past two months, allowing it to
overtake low-cost airline  Ryanair (RYA)  Holdings Plc as the largest
company with a main listing on the Irish Stock Exchange.  Kerry  rose  7.4 percent over two days to a record 39 euros
on Aug. 10 after raising earnings guidance, giving the company a
market value of 6.85 billion euros ($8.5 billion). The company
overtook Ryanair on June 26 after the airline said in May that
recession and austerity in Europe will make it difficult to
match last year’s record results.  Kerry, which has become one of the world’s largest
suppliers of ingredients and flavors with customers such as
Nestle SA and Pepsico Inc, forecast last week that earnings will
grow by 8 percent to 12 percent this year, compared with 7
percent to 10 percent in May. Slower earnings growth in  Europe 
was offset in part by expansion in  Asia  and the Americas where
it has increased its presence through acquisitions.  “We are going through a transformation in terms of truly
globalizing the business,” Chief Executive Officer Stan McCarthy, 54, said in an interview at the ISE in Dublin last
week. “As we move through that transformation you have a
business model that is primed for larger acquisitions.”  The stock gained 17 percent in the last 60 days, more than
its 14 largest global food manufacturing competitors including
Paris-based Danone S.A. and Sparks, Maryland-based flavors maker
McCormick & Co., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ireland-based Glanbia Plc, one of the largest producers of
cheddar cheese in the U.S. and Dublin-based Greencore Group Plc,
the world’s biggest sandwich maker, have risen 32 percent and 53
percent respectively this year as they acquired U.S. companies.  Stability Search  “People are looking for that stability at the moment and
for companies that aren’t sliding downwards,” said  James Targett , a London-based analyst at Berenberg Bank, who has a Buy
recommendation on Kerry with a target price of 40 euros. “It
has all been about revenue synergies and cross-selling, and
expansion into new markets” for Kerry.  The Tralee, southwest Ireland-based company has grown from
operating one dairy plant in Ireland in 1972 to 150
manufacturing facilities in 25 countries. Last year, the company
said it acquired Cargill Inc.’s global flavors business for $230
million, in addition to smaller acquisitions in  Argentina ,
 India ,  South Africa , Australia and  Germany .  Any large acquisition would have to be in the company’s
ingredients and flavors business, according to McCarthy. Prior
to becoming CEO on Jan. 1, 2008, McCarthy was head of Kerry’s
ingredients business in the Americas.  The ingredients and flavors division reported a 17 percent
rise in first-half profit to 213 million euros. Revenue from
business outside of Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa stood at
40 percent of total sales last year.  Increased investor confidence in Kerry’s long-term growth
ambitions has helped the stock this year, said Alex Sloane, a
London-based analyst at  Societe Generale  in a note this week.  Kerry said last week it may spend as much as 300 million
euros on acquisitions this year. Kerry can “comfortably”
afford an acquisition of 1 billion euros, according to Dublin-
based analyst Darren Greenfield at NCB Stockbrokers.  Kerry declined 1 percent to 37.8 euros as of 10:35 a.m. in
Dublin today, while Ryanair rose 0.3 percent to 4.082 euros.  “We have a dashboard and we keep an eye on our peer
analysis and the market,” McCarthy said, declining to say how
much it could spend on a larger purchase. “Our preference is to
get through as much as possible this transformation that we are
talking about and be better prepared to handle an acquisition
when it presents itself.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  