-- Korea Corporate Bond Sales Stall for 2nd Week on Premiums
-- B y   T a e j i n   P a r k   a n d   R o s e   K i m
-- 2012-08-17T04:34:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/korea-corporate-bond-sales-stall-for-second-week-on-low-premiums.html
Sales of won-denominated corporate
bonds in South  Korea  stalled for a second week as investors
balked at the lower yields relative to sovereign notes.  Woori Finance Holdings Co. was the only issuer this week,
with 250 billion won ($221 million) of five-year notes, after
last week’s offerings fell to a three-month low of 200 billion
won, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The extra yield
investors demand to hold corporate notes over similar-maturity
 government bonds  rose to 60 basis points this week, three basis
points from the lowest premium this year in June, data from the
Korea Financial Investment Association show.  “The market is slowing due to the low bond yields,” Kim Min-Jeong, a credit analyst at KDB Daewoo Securities Co., said
by telephone from  Seoul  on Aug. 14. “This may be good news for
issuers, but for investors it’s unattractive.”  Sales also faltered this month because companies that
needed financing took advantage of the Bank of Korea’s decision
to cut rates in July, Kim said. Governor Kim Choong Soo
surprised economists by lowering the key rate by a quarter
percentage point to 3 percent on July 12, spurring a tripling in
corporate bond issuance as yields fell to all-time lows.  Woori Finance, the biggest  bank holding company  by assets,
sold the five-year notes to yield 2 basis points more than five-
year AAA rated Korea  composite  financial debentures, according
to Bloomberg data. The sale is to refinance 250 billion won of
debt maturing this month, Ahn Chul Woo, a general manager with
the company’s financial planning department, said last week.  Rising Yields  The issue took sales of corporate debt this year to 34.8
trillion won, compared with 34.9 trillion won in the same period
last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Yields on company and government debt are rising around the
world as signs of recovery in the  U.S. economy  caused traders to
reduce expectations for central-bank easing.  South Korea ’s
three-year note yields climbed to the highest in more than a
month yesterday after the  jobless rate  unexpectedly fell.  “Yields for both government and corporate bonds gained as
improved economic data spurred investors to favor safer assets
less,” Lee Soo Jung, a credit analyst with SK Securities Co.,
said by telephone yesterday. “The rates also seem to be
technically adjusting after going excessively low.”  South Korea’s economic growth will probably slow to 2.9
percent this year, from 3.6 percent in 2011, according to the
median forecast of five economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  S-Oil, SK Telecom  The yield on South Korea’s three-year benchmark government
bonds increased 12 basis points this week to 2.92 percent, Korea
Exchange Inc. prices show. Yields on AA- rated three-year
corporate notes, the benchmark according to the Korea Financial
Investment Association, rose 16 basis points to a one-month high
of 3.54 percent yesterday.  Corporate debt sales are set to pick up next week to at
least 1.48 trillion won, with  S-Oil Corp. (010950) , South Korea’s third-
largest refiner, planning what would be its biggest-ever bond
offering. It’s set to sell five-, seven- and ten-year notes to
raise 500 billion won, according to preliminary data compiled by
Bloomberg.  SK Telecom Co., the country’s largest mobile-phone
operator, is also readying sales of seven-, ten- and twenty-year
bonds to raise 400 billion won, the data show.  “For companies planning bond sales, the recent hike in the
yields shouldn’t be too much of an issue because the level would
still be lower than what they paid for the bonds that they are
refinancing,” Lee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taejin Park in Seoul 
 tpark31@bloomberg.net ;
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  