-- New York Chases Silicon Valley With Roosevelt Island Site
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2012-08-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/new-york-chases-silicon-valley-with-roosevelt-island-site.html
New York City’s ambitions to
challenge Silicon Valley as a technology center are taking root
on a narrow isle in the East River, where  Cornell University  is
building a $2 billion campus and startup incubator.  Manhattan’s Roosevelt Island will be home to a new
engineering and applied science graduate school, part of a bet
that the next  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  could be born in the Big Apple. West
Coast companies are already helping lay the groundwork, with
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  donating  office space  to the project and  Facebook
Inc. (FB)  hosting a “hackathon” to build buzz with all-night
programming binges.  New York has an uphill fight in trying to draw startups and
engineers away from the San Francisco Bay area -- home to Apple,
Google, Facebook and Twitter Inc. Silicon Valley attracted
almost  six  times more venture-capital investment dollars than
New York in the second quarter, according to a
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  study . Still, the city has an edge in
giving entrepreneurs access to the worlds of finance, fashion,
advertising and retail, making New York fertile ground for
startups that fill the needs of those industries.  “There is more interest in New York as a potential tech
center than ever before,” said  Greg Pass , a former  Twitter
executive  who now works for the new Cornell campus. “As the
world becomes more technological, the role of engineers will be
become more substantial.”  Winning Bid  The graduate school, known as CornellNYC tech, is part of a
broader push by Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  to make the city a
global technology leader. In December, Cornell and the  Technion-
Israel Institute  for Technology beat out six competing bids to
build the campus, including one from  Stanford University . A $350
million donation from Cornell graduate Charles Feeney helped
seal the university’s victory.  The city is donating space on Roosevelt Island and as much
as $100 million for infrastructure improvements. The mayor is
founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent company
of Bloomberg News.  The project is meant to bolster  job creation  in the city
and generate  600  spinoff companies and $23 billion in economic
activity over the next three decades. Until the Roosevelt Island
campus opens in  2017 , it will run in Manhattan’s Chelsea
neighborhood, in space leased rent-free from Google.  Facebook, Google  The campus will offer pilot courses this year and begin
conducting master’s classes in the latter part of 2013. Key to
the effort is enlisting technology companies, which will give
students a glimpse into their operations,  Dan Huttenlocher ,  dean 
of the campus, said in an interview. Facebook, Google,  EBay
Inc. (EBAY) ,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,  Groupon Inc. (GRPN) ,  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR) ,
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  and Twitter said they intend to
collaborate with the campus.  “You can almost name a company, and they’re very
excited,” Huttenlocher said.  While New York trails the Valley in startup funding, it’s
closing the gap. The number of venture deals in the city grew by
almost a  third  between 2007 to 2011, while falling 10 percent in
Silicon Valley, according to the Center for an Urban Future. The
city now has more than 1,000 technology  startups , and the number
of so-called tech accelerators has grown from zero to at least
 12  since 2009, making it easier for budding companies to find
investors and form business models.  Google, Facebook, Twitter, Microsoft, EBay,  Yelp Inc. (YELP)  and
 LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  have set up offices in the city. From 2005 to
2010, New York’s tech workforce grew  10  times faster than total
city employment, according to the Center for an Urban Future.  Doubling Students  The Cornell campus aims to almost  double  the number of
engineering graduate students in “leading programs” in the
city, according to the New York City Economic Development Corp.
The graduate engineering or applied science schools at  Columbia
University ,  City University  in New York and the Polytechnic
Institute of  New York University  had a total of about 2,800
students as of 2011, the mayor’s office said.  “It inevitably develops the likelihood that we will have
developed better tech talent in the city,” said  Alfred Spector ,
 vice president of engineering  at Google, which may fund
CornellNYC faculty posts.  To maintain closer ties to the technology industry,
CornellNYC plans to focus research on real problems that
companies are trying to solve. That’s a shift from a tradition
in which academia sets the agenda, Huttenlocher said.  New Model  “We’re working on a new model,” he said. “We often think
about education happening first and entrepreneurship happening
second. We are trying to intertwine those at the same time.”  Companies will have a place on the campus as resident
entrepreneurs and guest lecturers. A mentorship program will
pair each student with an industry mentor. And businesses are
already picturing CornellNYC as a recruitment hotbed.  Facebook lured 80 students to its Madison Avenue offices on
July 21 for a 24-hour hackathon, an event organized with
CornellNYC. In between bean-toss and mini-basketball games,
students worked together in small groups to code and solve
problems of their choice, huddled in an office with exposed
plywood and pipes. Scooters and squirt guns were scattered
around the room.  Cornell is one of the top schools from which Facebook
recruits, said  Jessica Traynor ,  academic-relations manager  at
the social-networking company. Facebook will probably host
Cornell professors and students as presenters at its offices,
and its staff may give lectures or teach at the campus, said
Traynor, who helped Cornell on its bid for the project before
joining the company.  Facebook’s Users  “Faculty are really interested in our scale, with 900
million-plus users,” Traynor said. Students could work with the
company on topics such as systems engineering and human-computer
interface, she said.  Facebook will compete for candidates with companies such as
Groupon, which is including Cornell’s Ithaca and  New York 
campuses on its recruiting list for the first time this year.  Corey Kaminsky, a 19-year-old rising sophomore at Cornell
who plans to major in chemistry, said she wants to attend the
New York campus for graduate studies and eventually start her
career in the city.  “I want to go into biotech,” said Kaminsky, who grew up
in New York. “I would be thrilled to go back to being in a big
city where new technology will come out.”  Teaching Entrepreneurship  Cornell hired Pass, Twitter’s former technology chief, as
its founding entrepreneurial officer. He oversees partnerships
with industry and ensures that business-startup lessons are
integrated into the curriculum and campus culture.  Pass’s own experience comes from the intersection of
academia and business. A patent he had produced as a Cornell
undergraduate formed the foundation of a company called ToFish,
which produced an image-search product. It was  acquired  by
America Online Inc. in 2000. At Twitter, Pass was responsible
for hiring hundreds of engineers, Huttenlocher said.  “What Greg brings can certainly be very rare on a
university campus,” Huttenlocher said. “He is someone who is a
very successful serial entrepreneur. He is going to help us
start programs that will bring this academic culture together
with the culture of commercial success.”  CornellNYC’s first faculty hire shows its ambition to
compete with the West Coast for talent.  Deborah Estrin  comes to
the campus from  University of California  at  Los Angeles , where
she is a  computer-science professor  and founding director of its
Center for Embedded Networked Sensing.  Estrin will teach courses such as Internet architecture
starting in January. Her research focuses on how mobile and
wireless systems can be used to collect and analyze data.  “We plan to connect to the overall ecosystem of companies
around the campus,” Estrin said. “Los Angeles and California
are a very special place, but I don’t see it as leaving behind
the heart of tech.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chaykowski in New York at 
 kchaykowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net ; 