-- New York Seeks New Ruling on $410 Million Merkin Deal
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-08-17T18:26:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/new-york-seeks-new-ruling-on-410-million-merkin-deal-1-.html
New York  Attorney General Eric Schneiderman will ask a district judge to decide whether the
Bernard Madoff brokerage trustee can overturn a $410 million
settlement with a former Ponzi scheme investor, the trustee
said.  Schneiderman in June agreed to settle a state lawsuit
against the investor, J.  Ezra Merkin , who would pay $405 million
to compensate the con man’s investors, and $5 million to the
state. Bankruptcy trustee  Irving Picard  sued Schneiderman this
month to stop him from completing the deal, saying it obstructs
his own efforts to collect $500 million from Merkin and his
funds for a different group of investors.  Now, lawyers for Schneiderman and the Merkin funds’
receivers have told Picard they want to have the case moved to
district court from  bankruptcy court , where Picard operates, the
trustee said. They will seek a ruling on Picard’s suit against
the state’s top law enforcement official, and his request for a
preliminary injunction to stop the Merkin deal, Picard said in a
filing yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  “We believe this effort by Mr. Picard to prevent the
attorney general from distributing $410 million to investors who
were victimized by Mr. Merkin is inappropriate and without legal
merit and we will continue to take all necessary steps to oppose
it,” said James Freedland, a spokesman for the AG.  Picard said he hasn’t yet seen a copy of Schneiderman’s
agreement with Merkin.  Schneiderman will file papers requesting the transfer of
the case by Aug. 31 and the trustee will respond by Oct. 31,
Picard said in the filing.  Escrow Account  According to Picard, $200 million of Merkin’s settlement
money is already sitting in an escrow account with BNY Mellon
NA, awaiting completion of the deal with Schneiderman. The
attorney general has told him that no other settlement-related
transfers of assets have occurred since then, he said.  Picard has said that under bankruptcy law he has sole right
as trustee to sue former Madoff investors who allegedly knew of
the fraud, using the proceeds to pay customers whose claims he
has authorized.  In January, he sued California Attorney General  Kamala Harris , alleging her $270 million lawsuit against a former
Madoff investor’s estate interfered with the collection of
assets needed to help compensate Madoff victims, and would help
only Californians.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland , who oversees the
Madoff brokerage liquidation, told the two parties to go into
mediation, and this month picked a former judge, James L.
Garrity Jr., as the mediator.  Secure Settlements  Asking Lifland to stop the Merkin deal this month, Picard
said, “If other  attorneys general  around the country could
simply walk into state courts and secure settlements as the NYAG
did, the BLMIS estate would be decimated, with residents of
various states favored.”  Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, or BLMIS, is
the defunct Madoff firm.  Schneiderman’s move comes as district judges are reviewing
hundreds of Picard’s lawsuits against companies and individuals
to decide whether the trustee is using a valid interpretation of
his powers under bankruptcy law, or his actions conflict with
state and federal law. U.S. district judges Jed Rakoff and
 Colleen McMahon  together knocked out $90 billion of Picard’s
claims against banks including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and HSBC
Holdings Plc.  Concealed Role  In the Merkin lawsuit, Schneiderman’s predecessor,  Andrew Cuomo , claimed Merkin and his funds secretly steered assets to
Madoff and concealed Madoff’s role, harming investors.  Madoff is serving a 150-year sentence after pleading guilty
to a fraud that wiped out $17 billion of customers’ principal.
Picard has raised around $9 billion for customers, mostly from
settlements, although some of it is still tied up in court
challenges.  The case is Picard v. Schneiderman, 12-01778, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 