-- News Corp. Sued for Hacking by Lawyer in 2007 Prosecutor Affair
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-08-17T09:40:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/news-corp-sued-for-hacking-by-lawyer-in-2007-prosecutor-affair.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  and the former private
investigator who hacked phones for the News of the World tabloid
were sued in Britain by a criminal-defense lawyer who newspapers
said in 2007 had an affair with the country’s chief prosecutor.  The lawsuit by Kirsty Brimelow, of Doughty Street Chambers
in London, was filed against News Corp.’s U.K. unit, which
published the now-defunct title, and  Glenn Mulcaire , 41, in the
 High Court  on Aug. 13, according to court records.  Brimelow had an affair with Ken Macdonald, who at the time
led the U.K.  Crown Prosecution Service , the Telegraph and other
titles reported in February 2007. The alleged relationship made
headlines about a month after Macdonald’s agency secured prison
terms for Mulcaire and the News of the World’s Royal Family
reporter  Clive Goodman . While the men pleaded guilty to phone
hacking, the case failed to uncover the extent of the scandal.  News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  closed the News of the
World in July 2011 after revelations it intercepted the voice
mail of murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler in 2002, when she was
still missing. The company is cooperating with police after
admitting some of its journalists targeted celebrities,
politicians, crime victims and people close to them until 2006.  Tabloid Photos  U.K. tabloids published photographs of the two lawyers
dining together and stationed reporters outside their homes in
February 2007 to get reactions from them and Macdonald’s wife,
according to news articles at the time. Neither Brimelow nor
Macdonald commented on the reports of the affair.  Mulcaire’s lawyer,  Sarah Webb , declined to comment.  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for News International, declined to
comment on the lawsuit.  Brimelow didn’t return calls or e-mails over three days
seeking comment. The details of her claims weren’t immediately
available.  Macdonald, who was director of public prosecutions at CPS
from 2003 to 2008, declined to comment.  He was hired by News Corp.’s News International unit last
year to advise its board as the phone-hacking scandal peaked. He
reviewed internal documents that triggered a police probe into
journalists bribing police and other public officials.  Mulcaire, who was jailed for six months in the first case,
was charged again in July after a renewed police probe unearthed
a larger conspiracy involving more journalists and thousands
more potential victims than were known six years ago.  Parliamentary Testimony  Macdonald joined Parliament’s unelected upper chamber, the
House of Lords, in 2010. He told a Parliamentary committee last
year that he had no reason to believe during the first case in
2006 that wrong decisions were being made regarding the phone-
hacking prosecutions.  News International is seeking to settle as many as 100
civil lawsuits that are part of a joint court proceeding in
London before a trial scheduled for February.  After leaving the Crown Prosecution Service, Macdonald
returned to Matrix Chambers, which he helped found. It’s the
same  law firm  where former Prime Minister  Tony Blair ’s wife
 Cherie Blair  practices law. Cherie Blair also sued News Corp.
over phone-hacking claims in February.  The case is Kirsty Brimelow QC v. Newsgroup Newspapers,
HC12A03219, High Court of Justice Chancery Division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  