-- Newspaper Publisher Plans C$13 Billion Kitimat Oil Refinery
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-08-17T19:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/newspaper-publisher-plans-c-13-billion-kitimat-oil-refinery.html
Canadian newspaper publisher David Black wants to build a C$13 billion ($13.2 billion) refinery in
Kitimat, British Columbia, the terminus of  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s
proposed Northern Gateway pipeline.  Kitimat Clean Ltd., owned by Black, is submitting an
environmental assessment of a plan to construct a 550,000
barrel-per-day refinery to process bitumen from  Alberta ’s oil
sands, Black said in a statement on the company’s website. The
bitumen would be supplied by the Enbridge pipeline, and the
refinery would be one of the world’s 10 largest, Black said.  The proposal comes amid opposition to the Northern Gateway
pipeline in British Columbia,  Canada ’s westernmost province,
where pipes filled with thick bitumen would cross salmon streams
and traverse forested terrain. British Columbia Premier Christy
Clark has demanded that the province be paid its “fair share”
of tax revenues from bitumen transported across its territory to
offset the risk of a spill.  Enbridge has been criticized for its handling of a 2010
spill which poured 20,082 barrels of oil into a river in
 Michigan  and cost more than $800 million to clean up. The
Northern Gateway proposal is currently being reviewed by
Canadian regulators.  The company on July 20 said it will spend as much as C$500
million to increase monitoring of the Northern Gateway pipeline
and use thicker steel to build the line.  Refining the bitumen near Kitimat would reduce the risk of
a damaging spill in coastal waters because diesel, kerosene and
gasoline evaporate, unlike bitumen, said Black. The refinery
would employ about 3,000, he said.  ‘Cleanest’  “We want it to be the cleanest and greenest upgrading and
refining site in the world,” Black said in the statement. The
target market for the refinery’s products will be  China , which
needs an extra 500,000 barrels of oil per day each year, he
said.  “If China is not interested, there will be other buyers,”
he said.  David Black bought his first newspaper in 1975 from his
father, Alan Black. Black Press, based in Victoria, British
Columbia, owns newspapers in western Canada, Washington state
and Hawaii, including the Honolulu Star-Advertiser. He is not
related to Canadian publisher  Conrad Black .  The world’s largest oil refinery at Jamnagar in the western
Indian state of Gujarat, owned by  Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) ,
produces 1.24 million barrels a day of crude products. Black’s
proposed plant would be as large as Saudi Aramco Total Refining
& Petrochemical Co.’s Ras Tanura refinery in  Saudi Arabia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  