-- New York Bike-Share Program Delayed Until March, Mayor Says
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-08-17T14:23:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/nyc-bike-share-program-likely-delayed-until-2013-mayor-says.html
New York City’s bike-share program,
which had been set to roll last month, won’t begin until March.  The program’s operator, Alta Bicycle Share of  Portland ,
 Oregon , hasn’t been able to perfect its software, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said on his weekly radio address today. Plans for a
possible partial rollout were scrapped because there is little
point in starting the program in fall or winter, he said.  “We are just not going to put out the system until it
actually works,” Bloomberg said. “The most fascinating thing
about this is that all those people that screamed, ‘We don’t
want bicycles’ are now screaming, ‘Why aren’t they here?’”  The late July start date came and went with no signs of the
10,000  Citigroup Inc (C) .-branded two-wheelers that were to be
docked at 600 solar-powered depots. Three years in the making,
New York’s bike share will join similar programs in more than
200 cities from  Boston  to Barcelona.  The first phase scheduled for March will begin with 7,000
bikes at 420 stations in Manhattan, Brooklyn and Queens. It will
become the biggest in the U.S. once the rollout is complete.  Private companies, not taxpayers, are behind the funding
for the program: Citigroup, the New York-based bank, is
contributing $41 million to be the chief sponsor and namesake of
the program, and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  is behind the $6.5 million
payment system. Profits are to be split with the city.  World Class  The delay won’t affect the sponsorship relationships,
transportation officials said in a statement.  “ New York City  demands a world-class bike-share system,
and we need to ensure that Citi Bike launches as flawlessly as
 New Yorkers  expect on Day One,” Transportation Commissioner
Janette Sadik-Khan said in the statement.  Alta operates bike shares in Washington and Boston. An e-
mailed request for details on the software delays wasn’t
returned, and there was no way to leave a voice message at the
number listed on the company’s website.  Rollouts of similar Alta-operated programs in Chicago and
Chattanooga,  Tennessee , have also been delayed, according to
local news reports.  Less Congested  Transportation Alternatives , a New York-based advocacy
group for cyclists, pedestrians and mass transit, said it
supported the decision.  “While we are eager for Citi Bike to begin, it’s more
crucial that this groundbreaking transit system be launched
correctly, not quickly,” Paul Steely White, the group’s
executive director, said in an e-mailed statement. “In time,
the circumstances of Citi Bike’s launch will be all but
forgotten and we’ll all be enjoying a city made safer, healthier
and less congested.”  Since 2007,  New York  has added more than 290 miles (467
kilometers) to the now more than 700-mile-long bike-lane system,
part of Bloomberg’s efforts to tackle two of the city’s most
persistent problems: congested roads and ever-widening
waistlines.  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  