-- Obama Campaign Keeping Spotlight on Romney’s Tax Returns
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-08-17T18:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/obama-campaign-keeping-spotlight-on-romney-s-tax-returns.html
President  Barack Obama ’s re-election
campaign and its allies sought today to keep alive a debate over
 Mitt Romney ’s tax returns, calling on him to release at least
five years of filings and showing a new ad on the issue.  A response from Romney’s campaign indicated the presumed
Republican presidential nominee won’t change his position of
disclosing no more than two years of returns.  A letter to Romney’s campaign by Obama re-election manager
 Jim Messina  said the president’s team would cease its criticism
of the former Massachusetts governor on the tax question if the
bid for five years of returns was met.  “This request for the release of five years, covering the
complete returns for 2007-2012, is surely not unreasonable,”
Messina wrote. “Other presidential candidates have released
more, including the governor’s father who provided 12 years of
returns.”  Romney’s campaign manager, Matt Rhoades, wrote back that
“it is clear that President Obama wants nothing more than to
talk about Governor Romney’s tax returns instead of the issues
that matter to voters, like putting Americans back to work,
fixing the economy and reining in spending.”  Presidential candidates have been inconsistent in the
number of returns they have made public.  Ronald Reagan  made
seven years available;  George H.W. Bush  released three years;
and Romney’s father, George, made 12 years of returns public in
his 1968 presidential bid.  13 Percent  Romney, confronted by persistent questions about his
personal finances as the presidential race intensifies, said
yesterday that he paid a tax rate of at least 13 percent over
the last decade.  Saying the “fascination” with his tax returns is “small-minded” at a time of big national and global challenges, the
Republican challenger denied as “totally false” charges that
he had failed to pay taxes over the last decade.  “I did go back and look at my taxes, and over the past 10
years I never paid less than 13 percent,” Romney told reporters
in a question-and-answer session in Greer,  South Carolina .
“Every year, I’ve paid at least 13 percent, and if you add, in
addition, the amount that goes to charity, why, the number gets
well above 20 percent.”  New Ad  Priorities USA Action, a super political action committee
founded by former Obama aides, released a new ad today that
features Romney’s comments from yesterday. The group said the
30-second spot will run online in the battleground states of
 Colorado , Florida,  Ohio , Iowa,  Pennsylvania  and  Virginia .  The president’s own team has also emphasized the tax issue
in some of its ads, including one that spotlighted a Swiss bank
account Romney had with Zurich-based UBS AG that was closed in
2010. Another ad tells viewers they pay more than Romney pays.  Romney has released his 2010 return, which shows that he
paid an effective tax rate of 13.9 percent on more than $21
million in income, most of it from  capital gains  and dividends.
He has pledged to release his 2011 return when it is completed,
while rejecting calls from Democrats and some Republicans that
he release additional years.  His campaign said the 13 percent figure Romney cited
represented his share of federal income tax. That is a higher
rate than the average household pays. In 2009, the most recent
year with available data, the average federal income tax rate
was 7.2 percent, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  Romney’s rate was similar to the 13.4 percent average tax
rate for the top 20 percent of taxpayers, and lower than the 21
percent rate paid by the top 1 percent of taxpayers -- those
making more than $1.2 million -- according to the CBO.  Financial disclosure statements Romney has released have
estimated his personal wealth to be as much as $250 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Boston at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Boston at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  