-- Obama Frees Unspent $473 Million for Use on Transportation
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-08-17T17:38:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/obama-says-states-may-use-unspent-473-million-on-transportation.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration said it will free states to use $473 million of
unspent federal highway money for road and bridge projects to
create jobs and improve U.S. infrastructure.  “My administration will continue to do everything we can
to put Americans back to work,” Obama said in an e-mailed news
release today. “We’re not going to let politics stand between
construction workers and good jobs repairing our roads and
bridges.”  Obama is running for re-election with the  unemployment  rate
at 8.3 percent.  Mitt Romney , the Republican challenger, says he
could create 12 million U.S. jobs during the first term of his
presidency.  The White House said the money was appropriated in
legislation from fiscal 2003 through 2006 and was dedicated, or
earmarked, by lawmakers for specific projects. Starting today,
state transportation departments may use the unspent funds for
highway, transit, passenger rail and port improvements,
according to the White House announcement.  “We are freeing up these funds so states can get down to
the business of moving transportation projects forward and
putting our friends and neighbors back to work,” Transportation
Secretary Ray LaHood said in the White House statement.  The funds must be spent in the states where Congress
originally directed them, LaHood said in a press briefing.  Largest Amounts  The state with the largest pot of unspent money is  Alabama 
with $51.5 million, according to a list released by the
department. California is next with $43.1 million.  Wyoming is the only state or territory that had no unspent
earmark funding, according to the agency.  With employment lagging, LaHood said that the agency was
looking for ways to put people to work.  There were numerous reasons that the money from earmarks
wasn’t spent, Chris Bertram, the agency’s chief financial
officer, said at the briefing. They include projects that were
blocked after environmental review, projects that cost less
money than projected and states that couldn’t afford to begin
construction work, Bertram said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  