-- Obama Threads Digs at Romney Into Campaign Rhetoric
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-08-17T04:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/obama-threads-digs-at-romney-into-campaign-rhetoric.html
While President  Barack Obama 
campaigned in 2008 promising to rise above petty politics, he’s
showing a more down-and-dirty side in his re-election campaign.  Obama this week tested a joke on the stump alluding to
Republican  Mitt Romney ’s treatment of a family pet, and he
declined to back away from a controversial jab at Romney by Vice
President  Joe Biden . His campaign has refused to condemn an ad
by independent pro-Obama super-political action committee that
Republicans complained was a low blow.  The rhetorical warfare has provoked anger from Romney. He
accused Obama of running “a campaign of division and anger and
hate” that disgraces the presidency.  “It is a lot different than Obama ’08,” said  Dan Schnur ,
chairman of the Jesse Unruh Institute of Politics at the
University of  Southern California  and a former Republican
strategist.  Obama’s willingness to wage a more negative campaign
reflects “the difference between being a challenger, and an
incumbent in a bad economy,” Schnur said. “You have to get
some blood on the other guy.”  The approach is unified. Obama campaign press secretary  Ben LaBolt  said Romney’s complaint “seemed unhinged.”  Campaign
spokeswoman  Jen Psaki  said the president is facing an opponent
who has been making assertions about Obama’s record that are
“full of bold-faced lies.”  Attacks on Obama  To be sure, Romney has been on the offensive, as well. The
Republican and his campaign have accused Obama of scrapping a
requirement that welfare recipients look for work, an assertion
that the independent fact-checking website PolitiFact.com called
a “drastic distortion.”  Obama also was targeted this month in an ad by an
independent group called the Conservative Majority Fund titled
“Shady Past” that seeks to renew settled questions about his
citizenship.  Obama’s jabs are aimed at Romney’s main vulnerability as a
candidate, according to Schnur.  Romney’s “biggest weakness is that voters don’t feel like
they can trust him to look after their interests,” Schnur said.  The strategy is demonstrated in both advertising and
rhetoric. With Romney resisting calls from Democrats and some
Republicans to release more than two years of tax returns, the
Obama campaign released a television ad asking if Romney paid as
little as “five percent” or “zero” in taxes, with a narrator
concluding, “We don’t know.”  Romney said yesterday he never paid less than 13 percent
over the past decade.  Dog Joke  While campaigning in  Iowa  Aug. 14, Obama added a new line
to his campaign speech. Deriding Romney’s energy policy and
attitude toward wind power, Obama quoted Romney from a March
speech in which the former Massachusetts governor said “You
can’t drive a car with a windmill on it.”  “Now, I don’t know if he has actually tried that,” Obama
said. “I know he has had other things on his car.”  The line was an allusion to a story about a 1983 Romney
trip in which the family Irish setter, Seamus, was put in a
shielded carrier on the roof of the car for a 12-hour trip.  On the same day, Biden told a racially mixed audience in
Danville, Virginia, that Romney’s plan to roll back Wall Street
regulations would “put you all back in chains.” Obama, the
nation’s first black president, dismissed Romney’s criticism of
Biden’s remark, telling People magazine that “everybody” knows
“that’s not how it was meant.”  Obama Prop  The Iowa trip also had Obama featuring a prop: beer. Four
years ago, he derided primary rival  Hillary Clinton  for chasing
down “a shot and a beer” while she had “TV crews in tow.”  In Iowa this week, Obama made a point of being photographed
with a  Bud Light  in his hand at the Iowa State Fair and a day
later at a bar in Cedar Falls. The campaign bus was stocked with
beer brewed at the White House. At stop after stop, when he
wasn’t holding a beer, he was telling voters about the beer he’d
been drinking.  Romney does not drink alcohol because of his Mormon faith.  “In the end I don’t think Barack Obama will convince
anyone he’s a beer person,” said  Jack Pitney , a political
science professor at  Claremont McKenna College  in Claremont,
 California . “Just look at his waistline.”  Priorities’ Ad  Obama and his campaign surrogates have resisted calls from
Republicans to condemn a television ad created by Priorities USA
Action, an independent pro-Obama super-political action
committee run by a former Obama aide. The ad links Romney to the
death of a woman whose husband years earlier had lost his health
insurance when Bain Capital LLC, the private-equity firm Romney
co-founded, closed the plant where the man worked.  While the Priorities USA ad generated online views and free
media attention, it aired on television once, in  Ohio . A
Washington Post fact-check gave the ad “four Pinocchios,” its
worst rating for truthfulness, finding that Romney left Bain
before the plant closed and the worker’s wife had kept her own
job and health insurance for a period of time after her husband
lost his position.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said most of Obama’s
remarks at campaign events have focused on policy, substance and
contrasts with Romney on taxes, health care and the role of
government.  Of the Republicans he said, “there’s always an attempt
during campaigns to distract attention from the substantive
policy issues when you’re losing the substantive policy issues
and debates.”  Kinder Words  Obama also has had kinder words for his opponents.  He has cited Romney’s successful business career in
speeches, while questioning whether that experience is a
necessary qualification for the presidency. He’s taken the same
approach with Romney’s running mate, Representative  Paul Ryan  of
 Wisconsin .  “Congressman Ryan, I know him, he’s a good man, a family
man,” Obama said in Davenport, Iowa. “But he is the
ideological leader of this Republican Congress. And he’s a very
articulate spokesperson for Governor Romney’s vision. The
problem is the vision is wrong.”  Obama’s edge was on display in 2008. During a primary
debate in  New Hampshire  with Clinton, Obama drew criticism for
calling her “likeable enough” when she was asked about her
personal appeal.  Pitney said while Obama’s campaign engaged in negative
campaigning four years ago, “Obama, himself, I think was a
little more restrained.”  ‘Personal Respect’  Pitney attributes the difference partly to Obama’s
opponents then and now. He said Obama had more “personal
respect” for Republican  John McCain , a longtime U.S. senator
from Arizona and former prisoner of war in North Vietnam.
“Romney does not have that kind of stature,” Pitney said.  Pitney said Obama also is concerned that it will be a
closer election and needs to refocus attention from his record
to Romney.  “What’s going to matter is the state of the economy and
the public’s evaluation of the candidates,” he said,
“including the public’s assessment of whether Mitt Romney is
fit to be president.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  