-- Obama Aide Says Using Petroleum Reserve Is an ‘Option’
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   A a r o n   C l a r k
-- 2012-08-18T00:33:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/obama-aide-says-using-petroleum-reserve-an-option-on-table.html
The Obama administration is
monitoring oil markets and a release from the nation’s Strategic
Petroleum Reserve remains “an option that is on the table” if
prices rise or supply is disrupted, said  Josh Earnest , a White
House spokesman.  “The administration does carefully monitor the global oil
market” because of its impact on the economy, Earnest said at a
briefing today. No decision has been made and he refused to say
whether there is active discussion about the reserve.  “In terms of how that decision’s going to get made or
whether it’s going -- made or what’s going to factor into that
decision, I’m not able to shed any light on that,” he said.  The administration discussed planning for using the reserve
earlier this year when the average retail price of gasoline in
the U.S. increased to almost $4 a gallon and the European Union
prepared to impose a ban on Iranian oil imports.  Oil has climbed 3.4 percent this week on concern that
 Israel  will strike to delay Iran from producing nuclear weapons
and as the  United Nations Security Council  conceded it couldn’t
stem the violence in Syria. The U.S. got 16.4 percent of its
imported oil from the Persian Gulf in 2011, according to Energy
Department figures.  Discussion about the reserve comes a sensitive time in U.S.
politics as President  Barack Obama  runs for re-election against
Republican  Mitt Romney  with the sluggish recovery as the central
issue. A steep rise in gasoline prices may crimp  consumer
spending , which accounts about 70 percent of the  U.S. economy .  Political Issue  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, was
$3.716 yesterday, according to data from AAA, the biggest U.S.
motorist organization. It was $3.326 at the beginning of July.  “From a political standpoint gasoline prices are up 40
cents a gallon over the last six weeks. Going into an election
you would ask yourself what is the government doing about it,”
said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in
Houston. “On the other hand the cynics might say if the U.S.
and other countries are considering a release of strategic
stocks what do they know about a preemptive strike by Israel on
Iran that they aren’t telling us.”  Oil for September delivery rose 41 cents, or 0.4 percent,
to $96.01 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the
highest settlement since May 11. The price is up 9 percent in
August and 13 percent in the third quarter.  Brent crude  for
October settlement fell $1.56, or 1.3 percent, to $113.71 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Stable Prices  Use of international reserves to keep prices stable was
among the topics Obama discussed in May with other leaders of
the Group of Eight nations at the presidential retreat Camp
David in Maryland. Oil hit a high for the year of $109.77 on
Feb. 24 before declining to $77.69 at the end of June.  The Obama administration today gave Maria van der Hoeven,
executive director of the International Energy Agency, a tour of
Strategic Petroleum Reserve facilities outside Houston,
according to a person familiar with the visit who spoke on
condition of anonymity.  At an earlier event at Houston’s  Rice University , before
the tour, van der Hoeven was asked whether the IEA had been in
contact with the U.S. government about plans to release oil from
the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.  “No. Why should we?” she said. “There’s no reason for
that. As I mentioned before, there is not a serious disruption
of supply, so there’s no reason for that.”  AAA Opposed  AAA issued a statement from its manager of regulatory
affairs, Avery Ash, saying the group opposes releasing reserve
oil right now.  “AAA believes that reserve oil only should be released to
address high prices in the market due to emergency supply and
demand fundamentals,” Ash said. “The impact on gas prices
caused by the Iran sanctions policy would not meet that
condition at this time.”  The Paris-based  International Energy Agency  coordinated the
release of 60 million barrels of crude and oil products last
year after Libyan output was disrupted by an armed uprising
against  Muammar Qaddafi . The agency also made supplies available
during the 1991 Persian  Gulf War  and when  Hurricane Katrina 
damaged oil rigs and refineries in the  Gulf of Mexico  in 2005.  Lipow said any future release probably wouldn’t be done by
the U.S. unilaterally.  “A release of strategic stocks around the world has a
bigger impact,” he said.  ‘Psychological Impacts’  Releasing oil from the U.S. reserve hasn’t guaranteed lower
pump prices over the past eight years. In four instances,
gasoline rose after the announcements of supplies from emergency
inventories. In 2008 and 2011, tapping stockpiles brought down
the cost of a fill-up, according to data from AAA.  When the price of gasoline nears $4 a gallon, “that has
all kinds of psychological impacts which actually turn into real
impacts in the economy,” said John Shages, who was deputy
assistant energy secretary for petroleum reserves in President
 George W. Bush ’s administration.  “I would be concerned if they weren’t thinking about it
with the way prices are changing,” Shages, now with Strategic
Petroleum Consulting LLC, said in a telephone interview.  The reserve, stored in deep underground caverns along the
U.S. Gulf Coast, has 696 million barrels of crude, according to
Energy Department data. That’s the equivalent of 80 days worth
of oil imports, the DOE says. It would take 13 days after a
decision to tap it for the oil to reach the U.S. market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Clark in New York at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  