-- Oil Trims 3rd Weekly Gain on Speculation Rally Excessive
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2012-08-17T11:27:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/oil-trims-third-weekly-gain-on-speculation-rally-was-excessive.html
Oil fell for the first time in four
days, paring a third weekly advance in New York, on speculation
that its rise to a three-month high was not sustainable.  Futures dropped as much as 0.7 percent after yesterday’s
1.4 percent increase to more than $95 a barrel. Crude’s 14-day
relative strength index rose to 66.6 yesterday, its highest
since March and near the 70 level considered to signify a market
is overbought. Oil may slide next week on concern that slower
economic growth in the U.S. will reduce demand, a Bloomberg
survey showed. The world’s biggest crude consumer is considering
a plan to release emergency stockpiles, Reuters reported.  “Oil is simply overbought, and so some profit-taking will
kick in,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in
 London  who predicts that West Texas Intermediate crude will
struggle to pass $96 a barrel. “But ultimately geopolitical
tensions and the macroeconomic backdrop will set the tone in
coming weeks.”  Oil for September delivery fell as much as 62 cents to
$94.98 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $95.08 at 12:22 p.m. London time. The
contract increased $1.27 yesterday to settle at $95.60, the
highest closing price since May 11.  Brent crude  for October settlement slid as much as 1.6
percent to $113.39 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The September future expired yesterday at
$116.90, up 0.6 percent. Brent’s premium to  New York  oil for the
same month was at $18.39 a barrel, down from $21.30 yesterday.  U.S. Data  Oil has climbed 2.5 percent in New York this week after
U.S. retail sales, industrial output and building permits for
July exceeded expectations. Crude was also supported by a report
on U.S. stockpiles, which dropped by 3.7 million barrels last
week as consumption reached a nine-month high, according to
Energy Department data released Aug. 15.  Crude is trimming gains after its 14-day relative strength
index reached the highest level since March and prices failed to
close above technical support levels. Oil settled yesterday
below the upper Bollinger Band on the daily chart, at $96.47 a
barrel today. The 14-day relative strength index rose to 66.6. A
reading of 70 and above is a sign it may have risen too fast.  Losses reflect “traders repositioning themselves in light
of the overnight moves,” said  Michael McCarthy , a chief market
strategist at CMC Markets in Sydney.  Fifteen of 27 analysts, or 56 percent, forecast crude will
decline through Aug. 24 in the Bloomberg survey. Seven
respondents, or 26 percent, predicted that futures will gain and
five said there will be little change in prices. Last week, 48
percent of analysts and traders projected an increase.  Brent Premium  North Sea  Brent remained at least $20 a barrel more
expensive than West Texas Intermediate traded in New York in the
five days through yesterday after the gap almost doubled since
June 20, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. has predicted since April that the spread will drop
to $5 a barrel in three months.  The growing difference underscores how falling output from
the North Sea’s aging oilfields and U.S.-led sanctions on
Iranian crude sales are stoking Brent while a production boom
adds to a glut of landlocked U.S. supplies, limiting WTI gains.  The White House is considering a plan to potentially
release of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, Reuters
reported, citing a source with knowledge of the situation.  “Crude’s a little bit overbought,” said  Ken Hasegawa , a
commodity-derivative sales manager at Newedge Group in  Tokyo .
Investor concern over a potential stockpile release “is one of
the factors that might be negative for oil,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  