-- California Cities May Face Rating Cuts as Default Risk Rises
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 2012-08-17T16:21:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/moody-s-says-risk-of-default-on-california-muni-bonds-is-rising.html
Cities in  California , where three
have declared bankruptcy in the past seven weeks, may get
credit-rating downgrades from Moody’s Investors Service.  The situation is worsened by the state’s boom-bust real-estate economy and “hands-off” policy on the finances of local
governments, Moody’s said today in a report.  “The risk of default on municipal bonds in California is
rising,” Managing Director Robert Kurtter, lead author of the
report, said in a statement. “Across-the-board rating revisions
are possible.”  Governor  Jerry Brown  last year balanced the state budget
partly by killing redevelopment programs that helped finance
decaying city neighborhoods. Localities also face rising pension
costs, growing unemployment and drops in property- and sales-tax
revenue. Stockton, San Bernardino and Mammoth Lakes all filed
for  bankruptcy protection .  California cities at particular risk include those in the
 Inland Empire , east of  Los Angeles , and Central Valley
localities, which run through the middle of the state, according
to the report.  Still Popular  Moody’s has an average general-obligation rating of Aa2,
its third-highest grade, for the 93 California cities that it
rates, according to the report. Its average rating for lease-backed bonds issued by California cities is one level below at
Aa3.  Those average ratings “may not be consistent with the
rising but still small risk of bankruptcy among cities,”
according to the report.  Even with the recent filings, investors are demanding less
extra yield to hold municipal bonds sold in the state.  The additional yield on 10-year debt sold by California and
its localities relative to 10-year benchmark tax-exempts has
shrunk to  0.76 percentage point  as of Aug. 16, below the five-year average of 0.99 percentage point, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s the narrowest yield spread since December
2008. The difference was as wide as 1.71 percentage point on
July 1, 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net ;
Will Daley in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  