-- Moody’s Rating Irish at Junk Threatens Kenny’s Goal: Euro Credit
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2012-08-17T08:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/moody-s-rating-irish-at-junk-threatens-kenny-s-goal-euro-credit.html
Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  has
said he wants to wave goodbye next year to the international
creditors who bailed out his country. That ambition rests in
part with a credit analyst poring over figures 675 miles away.  Dietmar Hornung at Moody’s Investors Service in  Frankfurt 
said in an interview last week that Ireland’s rating is
“rightfully positioned” at junk, signalling no immediate plan
to restore the investment grade following the nation’s return
last month to the long-term bond markets. Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch Ratings rank Ireland three levels higher than Moody’s.  “For a minority of investors, ratings can be all or
nothing,” said  Ciaran O’Hagan , head of European rates strategy
at Societe Generale SA in Paris. “While a junk rating isn’t an
insurmountable obstacle for Ireland, it would be much better to
lose that rating at Moody’s.”  Irish bonds delivered the best returns in the 17-nation
euro region during the past 12 months as optimism grew that the
country will refinance its banking debt and the  European Central
Bank  signalled that it may resume buying  government securities .
Benchmark yields on Irish debt remain above 4 percent, a level
that analysts say makes for an easier return to the fixed-income
markets when the rescue program ends at the end of 2013.  The rate on Ireland’s 2020  bond  was at 6.06 percent today,
down 24 basis points in the past month.  Ireland was downgraded by Moody’s to Ba1, one level below
investment grade, in July 2011. That’s below the rating of
countries including  Costa Rica  and Iceland, making it difficult
to attract investors.  ‘Off Limits’  “Ireland remains off limits from much of the money-market
fund sector and other similar ratings sensitive investors,”
said Owen Callan, a Dublin-based fixed-income analyst at Danske
Bank A/S. “We view further outperformance as difficult to
justify, in the short term at least.”  The country had stopped selling bonds almost two years ago
on concerns that losses in the banking sector may tip the nation
into bankruptcy. The government secured a 67.5 billion-euro
($82.8 billion) package of emergency aid from the  International
Monetary Fund , European Union and ECB in November 2010.  As a first step toward self-funding again, Ireland’s
National Treasury Management Agency last month sold 4.2 billion
euros of bonds due for repayment in 2017 and 2020, returning to
the market for the first time since September 2010. The
securities sold for a weighted-average yield of 5.95 percent.
Officials at the debt agency in Dublin declined to comment for
this story.  Budget Warning  Investors made a return of 39 percent on Irish debt
repayable in more than 10 years during the past 12 months and a
gain of 32 percent for bonds with maturities of seven to 10
years. The advance was the biggest among indexes tracked by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies.  While the debt sale was “reassuring,” the country’s
economic outlook has deteriorated since the last rating action,
Hornung said during the Aug. 7 interview. The former head of
 emerging markets  research at Dekabank in Frankfurt said he sees
challenges ahead for Ireland, which faces a budget deficit equal
to 8.6 percent of gross domestic product this year.  “That is a high deficit even compared to European peers and
that implies that still significant consolidation is to be
delivered,” said Hornung. “That could have a negative feedback
loop on economic activity.”  Investment Grade  Padhraic Garvey , head of developed markets debt at
Amsterdam-based ING Groep NV, is more optimistic.  “While Moody’s is the weakest link, I’d still classify
Ireland as investment grade,” given that S&P and Fitch rate the
nation above junk, Garvey said. “The real problem is that all
three agencies have a negative outlook on Ireland. If any of the
three could be persuaded to improve the outlook, that would be a
massive positive.”  S&P said as recently as Aug. 2 that it was keeping its
negative outlook for Ireland, meaning there’s a one-in-three
chance that the nation would be lowered again this year or next.
Fitch said this week that it’s keeping its negative outlook
because of risks to growth and fiscal consolidation.  “Although Ireland’s has largely regained external
competitiveness, it remains at risk from a further
intensification of the euro-zone crisis,” Fitch said in an e-
mailed response to requests for comment.  Three developments would prompt a reappraisal by the
ratings companies, said Callan at Danske Bank.  Irish Options  First, there needs to be an improvement in the economy as
Kenny’s government narrows the  budget deficit , he said. Since
2008, the Irish have made about 25 billion euros -- equal to 16
percent of gross domestic product -- of combined spending cuts
and revenue increases, with another 8.6 billion euros to come,
S&P said.  Second, the government may have to win European help to
refinance at least part of the 64 billion euros that the state
used to rescue the banking system, Callan said. Third, the debt
agency may have to demonstrate that it can continue to persuade
investors to buy Irish securities, he said.  Failure to persuade the ratings companies to improve their
view on Ireland would heighten Kenny’s difficulties in fully
regaining the nation’s economic sovereignty, he said.  “A rating upgrade would be a complete game changer,”
Callan said. “Ireland would probably be able to regain full
access and be hailed as the success story.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  