-- Thoresen Thai to Double Fleet as It Shuns China for U.S.
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-08-17T10:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/thoresen-thai-to-double-fleet-as-it-shuns-china-for-u-s-.html
Thoresen Thai Agencies Pcl (TTA)  plans to
almost double its dry-bulk shipping fleet in three years as a
focus on Europe-U.S. cargos shields it from tumbling rates for
hauling commodities to  China .  The fleet will climb to as many as 30 vessels from 16 by
September 2015, David Ames, executive vice president for
shipping operations, said by phone on Aug. 15. The  company ,
 Thailand ’s second-biggest dry-bulk shipping operator, plans to
buy new and used vessels as part of the expansion program.  Thoresen Thai’s shipping operations were profitable in the
quarter ended June because of demand to steel pipes, nickel ore
and other products across the North Atlantic, where rates are
about 13 percent higher than the global average, Ames said. The
company also recently reorganized its fleet so it had younger
handysize and supramax bulk ships to help reduce costs and
weather a slump in worldwide freight rates.  “We’re going to continue to operate in our niche market
and we’ll continue to attract cargos that not everyone can
carry,” Ames said. “We’re not going to suddenly become a
capsize operator out of Australia or  Brazil  and into China.”  Thoresen Thai, which deploys about half its fleet in the
North Atlantic, was unchanged at 15.4 baht at close of trading
in Bangkok. The company has fallen 22 percent this year,
compared with a 19 percent gain for the benchmark SET index.  Commodity-shipping rates have tumbled globally because of
excess capacity. The Baltic Handysize Index has dropped 12
percent this year, while the Baltic Capesize Index has slumped
66 percent and the Baltic Dry Index has dropped 58 percent.  “We knew that tough times were ahead and the market was
not going to be merciful as we came into 2011 and 2012,” Ames
said. “Smaller sizes are more resilient against the massive
swings in freight rates.”  Bulk Ships  Bulk-shipping capacity will continue to exceed demand
globally this year, unless there is an extraordinary amount of
scrapping and delays in delivery of new ships, Ames said.  The global orderbook for bulk ships is about 24 percent the
size of the existing fleet, the highest for any vessel type,
according to  Clarkson Plc , the world’s biggest shipbroker.  Thoresen Thai’s shipping operations posted earnings before
interest and tax of 41 million baht ($1.3 million) in the
quarter ended June 30, compared with a loss of 17 million baht a
year earlier, according to a  statement . The company reported a 
net loss  of 2.35 billion baht because of impairment charges on
its investment in a mining project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  