-- Orix May Buy $400 Million Dubai Insurer Stake, Inoue Says
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2012-08-17T06:09:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/orix-may-buy-400-million-dubai-insurer-stake-inoue-says-2-.html
Orix Corp. (8591) , a Japanese finance and
leasing company, is in talks to spend about $400 million to buy
a stake in a Dubai-based life insurer from a European bank,
according to President Makoto Inoue.  Orix may acquire as much as 49 percent of an insurance
holding company in the Persian Gulf state, Inoue said in an
interview on Aug. 13. The Tokyo-based firm is now conducting due
diligence to decide transaction terms, he said without naming
the target or the seller.  “The Middle East is interesting,” Inoue, 59, said.
“There are many joint ventures with European financial firms
there, and we see opportunities as banks are now struggling with
their businesses and want to sell non-core operations.”  Orix is also considering  investment  in aircraft leasing,
asset managers and other insurers in Middle Eastern countries as
European firms sell assets to rebuild capital and retrench in
their home markets, he said. The company plans to sell about $3
billion in bonds this year to accelerate an overseas expansion
plan hampered by  Europe ’s debt crisis and Japan’s record
earthquake in 2011.  Inoue, also the company’s  chief operating officer , said the
firm is targeting 300 billion yen ($3.8 billion) of private-
equity investments or acquisitions worldwide in the next three
years. Orix has made more than 50 merger and acquisition
transactions globally over the past five years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Disciplined Investment  “We view these investments in order to capture growth in
the overseas markets positively,” Jefferies Group Inc. analysts
led by Tokyo-based Mac Salman wrote in a report today,
maintaining their buy rating on the stock. “Historically their
investment has generally been done in a disciplined manner.”  Orix  shares  rose 1.8 percent, the most in three weeks, to
7,410 yen at the close of trading in Tokyo. They have jumped 17
percent this year, compared with the benchmark  Topix (TPX)  Index’s 5.1
percent increase.  To support  global expansion , Orix aims to hire 50 local
managers in 10 countries including  South Korea ,  Vietnam , India,
Singapore,  Thailand ,  Turkey  and Ireland, Inoue said. The company
needs to add local people “urgently,” he said.  Total life insurance premiums in the six-nation Gulf
Cooperation Council, which includes Bahrain,  Kuwait , Oman,
Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, was $1.8
billion in 2010, a 12 percent increase from a year earlier,
according to a report by  Alpen Capital . That compares to global
life insurance premiums of $2.5 trillion in the same period.  Dubai Growth  Economic growth in Dubai, one of seven sheikhdoms in the
United Arab Emirates, will quicken to as much as 5 percent this
year, according to government forecasts. Orix already has
leasing operations in Oman,  Egypt ,  Saudi Arabia  and the UAE.  Inoue also said Orix plans to spend $1 billion to acquire
aircraft in the U.S. and other countries over the next three
years.  Orix Aviation joins  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) ,
Japan’s second-largest bank by market value, in expanding its
leasing fleet to tap rising  demand  from airline customers
seeking to avoid the costs of aircraft ownership amid a global
economic slowdown. The Dublin-based unit plans to boost aircraft
under lease and management, and its customer base, by about 50
percent, David Power, who heads the business, said in an
interview last month.  The lessor plans to increase its fleet size to as many as
250 planes over five years and to widen its customer base to 100
airlines in three years, from 65, Power said. The company owns
and manages 130 planes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  