-- Most Cash Since ’09 Chases Tax-Exempts Still Cheap: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-08-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/most-cash-since-09-chases-tax-exempts-still-cheap-muni-credit.html
Municipal securities remain cheap
relative to U.S. Treasury debt even with investors directing the
most cash since 2009 to tax-exempt bonds in the $3.7 trillion
market.  Yields on tax-exempt debt due in 10 years were  100 percent 
of those on U.S. bonds with a similar maturity yesterday, the
lowest since May 15, yet still exceed the 93.14 percent average
for the past decade, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The ratio
reached a three-year high of 126.4 percent on June 1.  Top-rated tax-exempt munis maturing in 10 years yielded
1.84 percent yesterday, equivalent to 2.83 percent after federal
taxes for those in the 35 percent bracket. Investors seeking
higher yields shifted money into municipal mutual funds this
year as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he would
keep the central bank’s key lending rate near zero through at
least 2014. The funds added $20.6 billion through Aug. 15, the
most for the period since 2009, Lipper US Fund flows data show.  “There’s been a lot of money chasing munis,” said Alan Schankel, a managing director of fixed income at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “Ratios have moved lower,
but they’re still high on a historic basis.”  With muni borrowing costs near the lowest in more than four
decades, cash moving into tax-exempt funds has helped issuers
from  California  to Vermont lower borrowing costs by refunding
higher-yielding debt at lower rates. Of the $237 billion sold by
states and localities this year through Aug. 15, 62 percent has
been for refinancing, John Hallacy, head of municipal research
at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said in a telephone interview.
That’s up from 46 percent during the same period last year.  Refunding Savings  Issuance by  Vermont  and its localities has increased at the
fastest rate among U.S. states this year. Two-thirds of the
borrowings, or $314 million, were for refinancings, state
Treasurer Beth Pearce said in an e-mailed letter.  The state sold $69 million of general-obligation refunding
debt March 6, cutting $5.4 million of interest costs over the
life of the 13-year debt, she said.  “Our debt strategies have achieved two objectives,”
Pearce said yesterday in a telephone interview. “To live within
our means and to employ strategies that save the taxpayers money
by taking advantage of refunding opportunities.”  Bond Haven  U.S. Treasury yields sank to record lows this year as  a
flood of money from investors looking for a haven from the
 European debt crisis  pushed down borrowing costs.  Interest rates 
on 10-year U.S. securities fell to  1.39 percent  July 24, while
those on 10-year local-government debt dropped to  1.63 percent 
July 27, the least since at least January 2009, when Bloomberg
data begin. Tax-exempts have earned 5.38 percent this year,
beating the 1.3 percent gains for federal bonds, according to a
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  As local governments have rushed to refinance, borrowing
costs for municipals have rebounded this month along with
Treasury rates. Yields on 10-year munis rose by 0.18 percentage
points, the biggest increase since March, when they climbed 0.22
percentage points, according to Bloomberg data.  Municipal securities may continue to yield more than
federal debt next month as issuance increases and principal and
interest payments to investors decrease, Schankel said.
Investors are set to receive $18 billion in September, down from
$35 billion this month, Chris Mauro, head muni strategist at RBC
Capital Markets LLC in  New York , wrote in an Aug. 10 report.  “In September, when reinvestment drops off and,
presumably, supply will pick up a little bit when everybody gets
back from vacation, maybe ratios will move a little higher,
Schankel said.  Following are pending sales:  BAY AREA TOLL AUTHORITY is set to issue $150 million of
revenue debt as soon as next week to refinance debt, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Moody’s Investors Service rates the
sale its highest grade of Aa3. (Added Aug. 17)  HOUSTON, TEXAS, plans to sell $140 million of combined
utility system revenue bonds as soon as next week, Bloomberg
data show. Proceeds will help finance system repairs and
extensions and refund debt, according to bond documents.  Fitch
Ratings  rates the deal AA-, its fourth-highest grade. (Added
Aug. 17)  PIERCE COUNTY, WASHINGTON, is set to issue $183.4 million
of sewer revenue bonds through competitive bid as soon as Aug.
22, Bloomberg data show. Proceeds will help finance capital
projects, according to bond documents.  Standard & Poor’s  rates
the bonds AA, its third-highest grade. (Added Aug. 17)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  