-- OTP Sees Lending Pick Up, Slowing Portfolio Deterioration
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-08-17T08:51:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/otp-sees-lending-pick-up-slowing-portfolio-deterioration-1-.html
OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP)  expects lending to
pick up in the second half of the year and bad loan growth to
moderate after Hungary’s largest lender reported its profit fell
in the second quarter.  Net income adjusted for one-time revenue sources dropped an
17 percent from a year before to 37 billion forint ($164
million) in the period as provisioning for bad loans rose, OTP
said in a statement to the  Budapest Stock Exchange  today.
Unadjusted net rose to 41.4 billion forint from 37.3 billion
forint a year earlier. The median estimate by nine analysts
polled by Bloomberg was for a 32.6 billion-forint profit.  “We expect an increase in lending in the second half,
especially in  Russia  where the second half is a seasonally
dynamic period in terms of lending,” Deputy Chief Executive
Officer Laszlo Bencsik said at a press conference in Budapest
today. The bank expects bad loan growth to moderate in the third
quarter, he said.  OTP, which has subsidiaries in nine countries in central
and eastern  Europe , has seen profitability decline as the
economic crisis sapped demand for credit and boosted non-
performing loans. Provisions for bad loans rose an annual 28
percent to 64.1 billion forint in the second quarter as the
ratio of loans overdue by more than 90 days increased to 18.8
percent from 17.4 percent at the end of the first quarter.  OTP booked a one-time income of 4 billion forint in the
second quarter following impairment charges at its Serbian and
Montenegrin subsidiaries.  Shares Rise  OTP  shares  gained 2.3 percent to 3,830 forint by 10:06 a.m.
in Budapest, the highest since May 3. The benchmark BUX stock
index advanced 0.5 percent, heading for the highest close since
Aug. 6.  “Results were more favorable than expected,” analysts at
Budapest-based brokerage Equilor Zrt. said in an e-mailed note
today. “However, if we look behind the scenes, we see
significant problems where the acceleration in portfolio
deterioration is concerned. We expect a positive initial market
reaction with institutional investors possibly showing up later
in the day on the selling side.”  Bencsik declined to give an estimate on the effect of a
planned financial transaction tax to be introduced in 2013,
saying OTP has not yet decided what percentage of the levy it
will relay onto its customers.  Hungary  is planning to introduce a 0.1 percent financial
transaction tax from 2013 along with other sectoral levies to
help shore up the budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  