-- Tottenham Wants Meireles as Modric’s Replacement: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-17T06:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/tottenham-wants-meireles-as-modric-s-replacement-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Meireles for Modric  Tottenham Hotspur is ready to make a move for Chelsea’s
Portuguese midfielder  Raul Meireles  as a replacement for Real
Madrid-bound Luka Modric, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Meireles, 29, played for Spurs manager Andre Villas-Boas at
the Blues and Porto and is said to have been upset by Chelsea’s
decision to fire his countryman, the Mirror added.  Arsenal Plea  Arsenal asked Real Madrid midfielder Nuri Sahin to delay a
decision on a season-long loan move to Liverpool because the
Gunners may sell Alex Song to Barcelona, the  Sun reported .  Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger will use the lure of playing
in the  Champions League  to beat Liverpool’s offer if Barca
pushes ahead with a deal to sign Song, the newspaper added.  Strong Position  Robin van Persie ’s move to  Manchester United  has sparked
efforts by Arsenal to get winger Theo Walcott to sign a new
contract, the  Daily Express reported .  Walcott, who is a target for Liverpool, Chelsea and Inter
Milan, is in a strong negotiating position because he has less
than a year left on his agreement and could leave as a free
agent at the end of next season, the Express said.  Marseille Move  Joey Barton is poised to join Marseille on a season-long
loan as Queens Park Rangers line up a deal for former Chelsea
defender  Jose Bosingwa , the  Daily Mail reported .  Barton is suspended for 12 games in England and a move to
France will circumvent the ban and may lead to a permanent move,
the paper said. Barton’s QPR squad number also has been given to
new signing  Ryan Nelsen , the Mail added.  Richards Ruled Out  Manchester City defender Micah Richards could miss the
first 10 weeks of his team’s Premier League title defense after
injuring his ankle injury while playing for Britain at the
London Olympics, the  Mail reported .  City manager  Roberto Mancini  initially said that the right
back would be out for a month, though that estimate has been
revised and won’t be confirmed until the results of a
specialist’s examination are known, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  