-- Palm Oil Seen Dropping to 22-Month Low as China, India Slow
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-08-17T11:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/palm-oil-seen-dropping-to-22-month-low-as-china-india-slow-2-.html
Palm oil  is set to drop 8.8 percent
to the lowest level in 22 months as a slowdown in China and
India, the top users, curbs demand and rising Malaysian output
boosts inventories, said an analyst at  Frost & Sullivan .  Prices may decline to 2,700 ringgit ($862) a metric ton in
the next three weeks unless crude oil rises, which would make
palm more attractive as a biofuel, said Global Vice President of
Consulting Chris de Lavigne, who correctly forecast in December
that futures would reach 3,500 ringgit in the first half before
declining below 3,000 ringgit. Prices were last less than 2,700
ringgit in October 2010.  Palm oil, used in everything from  Nestle SA’s (NESN)  Maggi instant
noodles and Unilever’s soaps, to candy bars and biofuels, has
tumbled 18 percent from a 13-month high in April as Europe’s
debt crisis and a global slowdown reduced demand, cutting
profits at  Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL) , the largest processor. The
outlook is similar to a forecast made in June by Dorab Mistry,
director of Godrej International Ltd.  “I don’t really see any catalysts for palm prices to go
much above 3,000 ringgit,” de Lavigne said in a phone interview
from Singapore on Aug. 14. “There’s a lot of supply. Until we
see a more buoyant global economy and higher crude  oil prices , I
don’t foresee CPO making a bounce back,” he said, referring to
crude palm oil by its initials.  Weak Growth  The November-delivery contract climbed 0.7 percent to close
at 2,962 ringgit a ton on the  Malaysia  Derivatives Exchange, the
highest settlement price for the most active-contract since July
31. Futures fell to a 10-month low of 2,820 ringgit on Aug. 14
and are heading for a fourth monthly decline, the longest losing
streak since October 2008. The price reached 3,628 ringgit on
April 10.  China ’s  economy  expanded 7.6 percent in the three months
ended June, the slowest pace in three years. India  grew  5.3
percent in the first quarter, the least since 2003. Inventories
in Malaysia, the top producer after  Indonesia , rose 17.6
percent, the most in almost two years, to 2 million tons in July
from June, while  output  rose for a fifth month, climbing 15.1
percent to 1.69 million tons, the Palm Oil Board said.  Singapore-based Wilmar reported Aug. 14 a 70 percent net-
income drop in the second quarter, because of losses in the
oilseeds and grains business and on lower plantation earnings.  Palm oil could slump to as low as 2,700 ringgit a ton in
the absence of fresh stimulus by the U.S. and rebound to 3,300
ringgit as the decline spurs demand, said Mistry on June 7  Soyoil Premium  “We’re seeing a temporary rally up to 3,000 ringgit on the
back of the huge discount between palm and soy oil,” said
Gnanasekar Thiagarajan, a director at Commtrendz Risk Management
Services Pvt. in Mumbai. At that level, “prices will come back
down again as stocks increase and exports go down because the
festival season in  India  is only in November. You’ll only see
people stocking up in October. Till then, you’ll find a period
of weakness” and prices may dip below 2,700 ringgit, he said.  The worst drought in more than half a century in the U.S.,
which drove soybeans in  Chicago  to a record on July 23, and the
weakest monsoon in India since 2009 could limit declines in palm
oil prices.  Soybean oil ’s  premium  over palm oil widened to
$275.19 on Aug. 10, the most since September.  “Given our bullish view on soybeans and an appreciating
physical basis, we expect palm oil to be well supported near
$900 a ton,”  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) 
analysts including  Paul Deane  wrote in a report dated Aug. 15.  Festival Season  Purchases of vegetable oils by India in the year starting
Nov. 1 may exceed the 9.5 million tons estimated for this year,
according to B.V. Mehta,  executive director  at Solvent
Extractors’ Association. Palm oil comprises almost 80 percent of
the country’s cooking-oil imports.  Palm prices may see a temporary increase before the
festival season in India and China as the discount to soybean
oil may boost demand, said de Lavigne. China celebrates the Mid-
Autumn festival at the end of September and India’s Diwali falls
in November. The tropical oil is unlikely to trade above 3,200
ringgit again this year unless tensions in the  Middle East  spur
an increase in crude oil, he said.  Malaysian stockpiles may not drop below 2 million tons in
August and September as supply will be “quite good” in the two
top producing countries, said de Lavigne. Output typically peaks
between July and October.  Frost & Sullivan, a consulting company based in New York,
was commissioned by  Felda Global Ventures Holdings Bhd. (FGV) , the
world’s third-biggest plantation operator, to provide a palm
oil, rubber and sugar overview for its prospectus before its
$3.3 billion initial public offering in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  