-- U.S. Joblessness Rise Broad-Based as 44 States Show Gain
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-08-17T15:19:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/payrolls-climb-in-31-u-s-states-as-jobless-rates-also-rise.html
The jobless rate climbed in 44 U.S.
states in July, showing last month’s increase in unemployment
was broad based.  Alabama  and Alaska registered the worst performance, with
joblessness advancing by 0.5 percentage point in each, figures
from the Labor Department showed today in Washington. Payrolls
grew in 31 states last month, led by California and  Michigan .  Across the nation, the unemployment rate rose to 8.3
percent in July, a five-month high, even as employment increased
by the most since February. Faster hiring is needed to spur
 consumer spending , which accounts for about 70 percent of the
economy, and to help reduce elevated joblessness that remains a
concern for Federal Reserve policy makers.  Payrolls gains are “probably not enough to make really
significant sort of progress on improving unemployment rates,”
Jeremy Lawson, senior U.S. economist at BNP Paribas in  New York ,
said before the report. “Firms are waiting on more clarity as
to what general direction things are headed.”  Unemployment jumped to 8.3 percent in Alabama from 7.8
percent in June, and climbed to 7.7 percent in Alaska from 7.2
percent, today’s report showed.  Nevada , where the rate rose to
12 percent from 11.6 percent, remained the state with the
highest level of joblessness in the country.  Rhode Island , at 10.8 percent, was second, followed by
California at 10.7 percent.  U.S. Low  North Dakota  had the lowest unemployment rate in the
nation, even as it rose to 3 percent from 2.9 percent the prior
month.  Two states,  Idaho  and Rhode Island, showed a drop in their
unemployment rates. Joblessness was unchanged in four states.  New Jersey ’s jobless rate jumped to a 35-year high of 9.8
percent in July from 9.6 percent in June. The state lost 12,000
positions, including cuts in manufacturing, construction, and
professional and business services, according to figures
released by New Jersey officials yesterday.  Unemployment in New York rose to 9.1 percent, the highest
since 1983, and payrolls dropped by 3,700 workers.  The figures reflect the cutbacks at financial firms, which
are trimming jobs as revenue softens. Morgan Stanley has said
its headcount will drop by about 700 in the second half,
bringing total 2012 reductions to 4,000. Credit Suisse Group AG
planned to eliminate 138 positions in New York starting this
month. Deutsche Bank AG will cut about 1,900 jobs by year-end,
mostly outside Germany.  Payroll Gains  Today’s report also showed employers in  California  added
25,200 workers to payrolls in July, and those in Michigan took
on 21,800 more employees. Virginia was third, with a 21,300
gain. New Jersey and  Missouri  had the biggest decreases.  State and local employment data are derived independently
from the national statistics, which are typically released on
the first Friday of every month. The state figures are subject
to larger sampling errors because they come from smaller
surveys, making the national figures more reliable, according to
the government’s Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Employers nationwide added 163,000 jobs last month, more
than the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg and
following a revised 64,000 gain in June, Labor Department data
showed on Aug. 3. The increase, driven by automakers and health-
care providers, eased concern the three-year economic expansion
is faltering.  Including the July gain, the U.S. has recovered 4 million
of the 8.8 million jobs lost as a result of the 18-month
recession that ended in June 2009.  At the same time, the jobless rate has exceeded 8 percent
for 42 consecutive months, the longest stretch in the post-World
War II era.  “Growth in employment has been slow in recent months, and
the unemployment rate remains elevated,” Fed policy makers said
in a statement on Aug. 1 after their meeting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  