-- Pennsylvania Taps First School Recovery Chief in Chester
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-08-17T22:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/pennsylvania-taps-first-school-recovery-chief-in-chester.html
Pennsylvania named the first chief
recovery officer to take charge of a school district under a law
passed in June, putting former White House aide Joe Watkins in
charge of the Chester-Upland system.  Watkins, now a Lutheran pastor in Philadelphia, will devise
a fiscal plan for the 6,800-student district, which may include
converting some institutions to charter schools. He was named to
the post today by Secretary of Education Ron Tomalis.  Chester, with a $101 million budget for fiscal 2013,
avoided shutting down this year after a federal court forced the
state to chip in an additional $3.2 million in aid, according to
Moody’s Investors Service. Under the June law, the state can put
a recovery officer in charge of distressed schools. If district
leaders reject Watkins’s plan, a receiver could be named. The
measure also makes charter conversions easier.  “Joe is a qualified individual who has the ability to
assist the Chester-Upland School District with long-term
financial stability,” Tomalis said in a statement. “I am
confident that Joe will provide the district with the guidance
and leadership it needs.”  A recovery officer has worked for the reform commission
that oversees Philadelphia’s schools, the eighth-largest system
in the U.S., under a previous law.  Chester’s fiscal difficulties stemmed mainly from state-aid
cuts and rising pension and special-education costs, Moody’s
said this month in a report. It also cited declining revenue
from property taxes.  Watkins, who has worked in asset-management and academia,
was a public-liaison aide to President  George H.W. Bush , a
Republican, and previously served in the  U.S. Senate  on the
staff of former Vice President Dan Quayle, the Indiana
Republican, according to the statement from Tomalis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  