-- Penn State Officials’ Perjury Trial Set for January Start
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-08-18T04:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/penn-state-officials-perjury-trial-set-for-january-start.html
Two former top officials of
 Pennsylvania State University  go to trial in January on charges
they lied to a grand jury about a sex-abuse allegation against
convicted former football coach Jerry Sandusky.  Commonwealth Court Judge Todd Hoover yesterday scheduled
jury selections to begin on Jan. 7 for  Gary Schultz  and Timothy Curley.  Schultz, a former vice president in charge of university
police, and Curley, an athletic director now on leave, are
charged with lying about the 2001 allegation and failing to
report the incident to police. Lawyers for both men were in
court two days ago arguing the charges should be dismissed
because they lack specifics and are too old to prosecute.  Sandusky, 68, who spent 31 seasons as a defensive assistant
under late football coach  Joe Paterno , was convicted in June on
45 criminal counts tied to the abuse of boys over a 15-year
period. He is awaiting sentencing.  Curley and Schultz are charged with lying about their
knowledge of an incident involving Sandusky and what appeared to
be a 10-year-old boy in a football locker room in February 2001.
Both men denied that a former assistant football coach, who was
then a graduate assistant, told them Sandusky was sexually
abusing the boy.  Curley described the incident as “horsing around,” in his
testimony to the grand jury. Schultz said the assistant reported
“disturbing” or “inappropriate” conduct. Neither of the men
reported the incident to  law enforcement .  Hoover hasn’t ruled on their request to dismiss the
charges.  The case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Schultz, CP-22-
CR-5164-2011, Court of Common Pleas of Dauphin County,
Pennsylvania (Harrisburg)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 