-- Petroceltic to Buy Melrose Resources to Expand Oil Portfolio
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-08-17T16:23:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/petroceltic-to-buy-melrose-resources-to-expand-oil-portfolio-2-.html
Petroceltic International Plc (PCI) , an
oil and gas company with assets in  Algeria , agreed to buy
 Melrose Resources Plc (MRS)  for 165 million pounds ($259 million) to
expand in North Africa and the Mediterranean.  Melrose shareholders will receive 17.6 new Petroceltic
shares for each Melrose share, and Melrose will also pay a
special dividend of 4.7 pence a share. The dividend and the
shares represent a 9.7 percent premium to Melrose’s share price
on Aug. 16, according to a statement today. Petroceltic
shareholders will hold 54 percent of the enlarged company.  The acquisition brings together a portfolio focused on
North Africa, the Mediterranean and the Black Sea. The deal will
allow the group to compete with FTSE 250 companies such as
 Salamander Energy Plc (SMDR)  and  Soco International Plc (SIA)  for investment,
said Brian O’Cathain, chief executive officer of Petroceltic who
will also head the new company.  “This gives us a better platform to grow,” O’Cathain said
in a telephone interview today. “We’ll be able to produce
40,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day in five years. There’s
huge upside potential for our resources.”  Petroceltic fell 9 percent to 7.44 pence as of the close in
London. Melrose Resources rose 0.7 percent to 136.5 pence.  Petroceltic’s main assets are gas fields in Algeria, and it
also holds licenses in Italy and the Kurdish region of Iraq.
Melrose’s focus is on fields in  Egypt  and Bulgaria.  The enlarged company probably won’t sell off assets to
focus on its biggest fields, though it may look to buy more
assets in Egypt and Libya, O’Cathain said.  David Thomas , the CEO of Melrose, will become chief
operating officer of the new company, and Petroceltic’s Tom Hickey will be the chief financial officer.  HSBC Holdings Plc will provide a $300 million debt facility
for 18 months after the merger becomes effective.  Lambert Energy Advisory, N+1 Brewin and HSBC advised
Melrose on the deal. Petroceltic was advised by Bank of America
Merrill Lynch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  