-- Pfizer Seen Circling Agila With U.S. Drug Shortages
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n ,   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-08-17T13:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/pfizer-seen-circling-agila-with-u-s-drug-shortages.html
A  shortage  of injectable drugs in
the U.S. means India’s  Strides Arcolab Ltd. (STR)  could sell a
division that makes generic cancer treatments and antibiotics
for more than the entire company’s market value.  Strides, which has seen its market capitalization double to
48 billion rupees ($832 million) this year, may sell its Agila
Specialties unit, three people with knowledge of the matter said
last week. A multiple of 18 to 20 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization would represent a
“fair” price for Agila, Ernst & Young LLP said, meaning the
division could fetch at least $1.35 billion, according to data
and analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The Bangalore-based company is considering the sale as
large drugmakers seek acquisitions to offset a potential decline
in revenue this year of more than $21 billion due to U.S. patent
expirations in 2011 and 2012. The global market for so-called
generic steriles may swell to $17 billion by 2020, according to
Citigroup Inc., even as a  crackdown on manufacturers  by U.S.
regulators has added to a shortage of injectable drugs. Agila
may be attractive to large global drugmakers looking to expand
in injectable medicines, including  Hospira Inc. (HSP) , according to
Centrum Broking Ltd.  “Agila is a very valuable asset today, more than at any
other time,” said V. KrishnaKumar, a Mumbai-based mergers and
acquisitions partner at Ernst & Young, who named  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  as
a possible buyer of Agila. “Sterile injectable deals tend to be
expensive because the assets are specialized. Large
pharmaceutical companies looking to expand their generics
portfolios should be interested in Agila.”  Profit Surge  Today, Strides rose 3 percent to a record 818.3 rupees. The
gain was the biggest in the 17-company BSE Healthcare Index.  The company on Aug. 9 denied it was considering selling
Agila after Bloomberg News reported the plan. In a statement,
Strides said it would inform the stock exchange “as and when
there is any such development.” Chief Executive Officer Arun Kumar yesterday declined to comment further.  The company hasn’t approached potential acquirers yet,
three people said last week, asking not to be identified as the
information is private.  Pfizer said in an e-mail that it doesn’t comment on
speculation. Dan Rosenberg, a spokesman for Hospira, said the
company doesn’t comment on market speculation, when asked
whether it was interested in acquiring Agila.  Started in 1990  by Kumar and K.R. Ravishankar, Strides
began manufacturing injectable drugs five years later and
entered the U.S. market for sterile products in 2004. The
business was renamed Agila in 2010 and reported Ebitda of 2.7
billion rupees last year, accounting for more than half of
Strides earnings, according to a company  presentation  in May.  FDA Approval  The company’s total profit will more than quadruple to  10.2
billion rupees  this year, according to the average of eight
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Agila’s sales will
jump 47 percent in 2012 to 13.3 billion rupees as it benefits
from the shortage of injectable drugs in the U.S., Fortune
Equity Brokers Ltd. said.  “This business is doing well, because manufacturing
capacity is in short supply,” said Ajit Kumar Jain, joint
managing director of Ipca Laboratories Ltd., the world’s biggest
maker of anti-malarial drugs, which is building its own
injectable-medicines plant. “Strides has good capacity and new
facilities.”  After an antibiotics  plant in Brazil  was given U.S. Food
and Drug Administration clearance in February, and Agila
acquired another plant in southern  India  in April, the company
has seven facilities with FDA approval to make injectable drugs.  Powerful Drugs  The expense of building such sites makes Agila a more
attractive acquisition target for a buyer seeking to expand in
that area, said Hitesh Mahida, a Mumbai-based analyst at Fortune
Equity.  “It takes three to four years to set up a plant,” Mahida
said in a telephone interview from  Mumbai . “In order to
manufacture cancer injectables, you also need a high degree of
automation.”  Injectable drugs include powerful antibiotics and
chemotherapy agents that are mostly used in hospitals. As more
drugs lose patent protection, the global market for generic
injectable medicines will swell 42 percent to  $17 billion  by
2020, according to a May 9 report from Citigroup.  Agila this month received FDA approval for  oxaliplatin , a
cancer treatment. The drug will be distributed in the U.S.
through a two-year-old partnership with Pfizer, the world’s
biggest drugmaker.  Manufacturing Crackdown  A crackdown by the FDA on manufacturing practices at
steriles plants, including  Lake Forest , Illinois-based Hospira,
in the past two years has contributed to a shortage in U.S.
hospitals.  There are 215 drugs currently in short supply, most of
which are injectables, according to a  list  on the American
Society of Health-System Pharmacists website. The shortages,
which involve anesthetics, treatments for cancer, and drugs
needed for emergency medicine, prompted the U.S. government last
month to tighten requirements on drugmakers to warn of potential
shortfalls, according to the FDA.  The crackdown ensnared India’s Aurobindo Pharma Ltd. and
 Claris Lifesciences Ltd. (CLAR) , as well. That “places Agila in a
unique position as the only manufacturer of high-quality sterile
injectables from India,” said Ernst & Young’s KrishnaKumar in a
telephone interview.  Claris said yesterday in a stock exchange filing that it
has addressed the FDA’s complaints. Its  shares surged  20 percent
in Mumbai trading yesterday and climbed 5.1 percent today.  Big Pharma  Strides is considering a sale while global drugmakers trawl
India for potential acquisitions to offset a decline in revenue
from expiring patents, according to Ajay Argal, head of Indian
equities at Baring Asset Management Ltd.  “All the big pharmas are finding it tough to have any
growth, so they have to look at areas where they are not
present,” said Argal, who manages the Baring India Fund, said
in a telephone interview from  Hong Kong . “They have a lot of
cash, so rather than just keeping it in the balance sheet or
returning it to shareholders, they’re trying to elongate the
life cycle of their business with acquisitions.”  Any buyer could immediately start generating sales because
Agila has ready-made facilities with all the necessary
approvals, said Ranjit Kapadia, a pharmaceutical analyst at
Centrum Broking. The most likely buyers would be companies
already selling injectable medicines, such as Hospira, said
Kapadia.  Pfizer’s Cash  Pfizer, which is based in  New York , had  $24.3 billion  of
cash and short-term investments as of July 1, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Pfizer CEO Ian Read said in an interview
last month that the company’s “willingness to do deals
externally is driven by the value of the deals.”  Agila will generate Ebitda in 2012 of 4.19 billion rupees,
or about $75 million, according to analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. A sale at 18 to 20 times Ebitda would be in line
with average multiples paid in recent purchases of injectable
drugmakers, according to KrishnaKumar. That implies the business
would fetch at least $1.35 billion.  “At this price, a deal would be fairly priced,” he said.  Foreign acquirers of Indian pharmaceutical assets have paid
a median of almost 27 times Ebitda during the past five years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Strides sold its Australian and Southeast Asian unit,
Ascent Pharmahealth Ltd., to Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. for
A$375 million ($393 million) in January. Since then, the shares
have risen 71 percent.  Piramal Sale  Strides wouldn’t be the first Indian generic drugmaker to
fetch more for a unit than equity investors were willing to pay
for the whole company. In 2010, when  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  bought
Mumbai-based Piramal Healthcare Ltd.’s branded generic-medicine
unit for $3.72 billion, it paid more than Piramal’s entire
market value of $2.5 billion.  The acquisition, which turned Abbott into India’s largest
drugmaker and gave it a vast portfolio of generic drugs,
highlights the motives of global pharmaceutical companies, said
Prashant Nair, a Mumbai-based analyst at Citigroup Inc.  “Abbott was desperate to grow its presence in India,” he
said in a telephone interview. “The equity investor focuses on
factors like growth and profitability, but would not pay an
ownership premium. For a big pharma company, however, the motive
is largely strategic and they would be willing to pay more to
get ownership of a local entity to acquire a footprint that may
be difficult to develop organically.”  Arun Kumar  Still, selling the unit would leave Arun Kumar, Strides’s
co-founder and owner of 28.3 percent of the company, without the
company’s most profitable business and the source of half of its
Ebitda.  “It’s difficult to understand what will be left if they
sell this business,” said Siddhant Khandekar, an analyst at
ICICI Direct. “The rest of the business is just a plain vanilla
generic business that has no spark. I don’t think Arun will
sell.”  That won’t be a problem if the price is high enough, said
Centrum Broking’s Kapadia. After Piramal agreed to sell its
branded generics unit, which accounted for more than half of the
drugmaker’s total revenue, the company paid a special cash
dividend. The company controlled by billionaire Ajay Piramal has
since been on an acquisition spree, buying a stake in Vodafone
Plc.’s Indian unit, a diagnostics portfolio from Bayer AG and
the health-care research provider Decision Resources Group LLC.  “Like it happened with Piramal, if the valuation is good,
they will sell,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net . 