-- Philippine Peso Has Worst Week Since May as Remittances Slump
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-08-17T08:50:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/philippine-peso-set-for-worst-week-since-may-as-remittances-slow.html
The Philippine peso completed its
worst week since May after official figures showed the pace of
growth in  overseas remittances  dropped to a 15-month low.  Funds sent by Filipinos abroad rose 4.2 percent in June
from a year earlier, the least since March 2011, the central
bank reported on Aug. 15. The government said this week it’s
looking at raising funds without fueling currency gains that may
hurt exporters. Overseas sales and remittances account for about
30 percent of the $225 billion economy.  “There seems to be a preference at the central bank for a
weaker exchange rate and for gains to be in line with the region
to keep exporters, overseas workers and  call centers 
competitive,” said Ricky Cebrero, head of treasury at
 Philippine National Bank (PNB)  in  Manila .  The peso fell 1.3 percent this week to 42.42 per dollar at
the close in Manila, Tullett Prebon Plc prices showed. That’s
the biggest decline since the five-day period ended May 18. It
dropped 0.3 percent today. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of  exchange-rate  swings used to price options, was
unchanged at 6.5 percent.  The peso pared this year’s gains to 3.4 percent, the
second-best performance among  Asia ’s 11 most-traded currencies.  The government is coordinating with the central bank on how
it can use the nation’s foreign-currency reserves to repay some
overseas debt ahead of schedule, Finance Undersecretary Rosalia
de Leon said on Aug. 15. It is also considering selling bonds
targeting onshore foreign-currency deposits so as not to bring
in “additional dollars on a net basis,” she said.  Current levels are good enough to spur some dollar sales,
said Cebrero who predicts the peso will strengthen to 41.50 by
year-end. “Philippine fundamentals remain very strong,” he
said.  Record Reserves  Foreign reserves  climbed to a record $79.3 billion in July,
central bank data show. Export growth slowed to 4.2 percent in
June from a year earlier, compared with 19.7 percent the
previous month.  Bonds gained as central bank Deputy Governor Diwa
Guinigundo said in Manila today that authorities will assess if
they have scope to reduce banks’ reserve requirement ratio amid
well-anchored inflation expectations.  The yield on the 5.875 percent bonds due August 2015 fell
11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 3.9 percent,
according to midday fixing prices at Philippine Dealing &
Exchange Corp.  Local financial markets will be shut on Aug. 20 and Aug. 21
for holidays. Trading resumes on Aug. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  