-- Pound Declines Against Dollar After U.S. Leading Indicators Rise
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-08-17T16:20:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/pound-declines-against-dollar-after-u-s-leading-indicators-rise.html
The pound fell from near a two-week
high against the dollar after an index of U.S. leading economic
indicators climbed more than forecast in July, underlining the
 U.S. economy ’s outperformance of its U.K. counterpart.  Gilts snapped four days of gains after  Bank of England 
Markets Director  Paul Fisher  told the Financial Times that the
central bank’s program of buying bonds to stimulate the economy
can be adjusted depending on the effectiveness of recent credit-
boosting measures. Sterling headed for a weekly decline against
the euro after research group Oxford Economics Ltd. said
financial services firms may cut about 3,000 jobs in London.  “The pound can’t maintain its recent gain against the
dollar after the better-than-expected sentiment data in the
U.S.,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of foreign-exchange strategy
at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in London. “I am short
sterling at these sort of levels because I think the U.S.
economy will outperform the U.K.” A short position is a bet
that an asset will fall.  Britain’s currency fell 0.3 percent to $1.5693 at 4:59 p.m.
 London  time, and was little changed over the week. It reached
$1.5745 yesterday, the strongest level since July 30. Sterling
advanced 0.1 percent to 78.47 pence per euro, trimming its
weekly decline to 0.2 percent.  The U.S. Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the
next three-to-six months increased 0.4 percent after a revised
0.4 percent drop in June, the New York-based group said today.
Economists projected the gauge would rise by 0.2 percent,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Data Boost  Even as it fell against the dollar, sterling has risen 0.3
percent in the past week, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes, which track 10 developed-market currencies.
The dollar also added 0.4 percent and the euro jumped 0.3
percent.  The pound climbed and gilts fell this week as reports
showed retail sales unexpectedly increased and jobless claims
fell in July, adding to evidence that the U.K. economic slump
may be less pronounced than estimated. Updated second-quarter
gross domestic product data is due to be released on Aug. 24.  The U.S. economy will expand 2.1 percent this year,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. U.K. gross domestic product will decline 0.3 percent,
a separate survey predicts.  The 10-year gilt yield fell two basis points to 1.67
percent, after climbing 15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage
point, in the past four days.  ‘Sustained’ Stagnation  Bank of England policy maker  Martin Weale  said in an
interview published yesterday that the U.K. economy is
performing better than official data suggests.  “I would say that the general mood is that there is an
underlying sense of confidence,” Weale said in interview
published in the Birmingham Mail. “The economy is stagnating,
but I have not heard people say ‘this is a disaster.’ Rather
than describe it as a double-dip recession, I would describe it
as a sustained period of stagnation.”  The London-based central bank’s Funding for Lending Scheme,
aimed at encouraging banks to extend credit, is meant to work in
harmony with quantitative easing, Fisher told the Financial
Times.  The FLS is designed to boost credit to companies and
households. It will allow banks to borrow treasury bills from
the central bank, which they can use as collateral to fund
lending.  U.K. government bonds have returned 2.6 percent this year,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German bunds earned
2.8 percent and U.S. Treasuries rose 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  