-- Prudential Said To Be Lead Bidder for Hartford Life Unit
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-08-18T04:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/prudential-said-to-emerge-as-lead-bidder-for-hartford-life-unit.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  has
emerged as the lead bidder for  Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. (HIG) ’s individual life insurance business, which may sell for
about $1 billion, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The insurers are still weeks away from striking a deal, and
the talks could fall apart, said one of the people, who spoke on
the condition of anonymity because the discussions are private.
Hartford said in March it would seek buyers for the unit.
 Protective Life Corp. (PL)  is among the other companies that showed
interest in the division, the people said.  Prudential, the No. 2 U.S. life insurer, is targeting
return on equity of at least 13 percent next year. The insurer
said this month it has about $4 billion in cash and short-term
investments at the parent company and that most of the funds can
be used to repay debt, be redeployed or support operations.  “The successful deployment of capital with an accretive
impact on ROE is critical as is the improvement of our operating
performance in our U.S. businesses,” Prudential Chief Executive
Officer John Strangfeld said in an Aug. 2 conference call.  Hartford CEO Liam McGee has been divesting units after
billionaire investor  John Paulson  pressured him to improve
results by narrowing his focus. McGee agreed last month to sell
a broker-dealer unit to  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and
earlier this year struck a deal to sell an individual-annuities
distribution business to Forethought Financial Group Inc.  Bob DeFillippo , a spokesman for Newark, New Jersey-based
Prudential, declined to comment yesterday, as did Eva Robertson
at Birmingham, Alabama-based Protective.  Shares Advance  “It’s our policy not to comment on market speculation,”
said  Shannon Lapierre , a spokeswoman for Hartford.  Hartford jumped 29 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $18 in
extended trading at 4:14 p.m. yesterday in New York. The insurer
has climbed 9 percent this year, compared with the 8.1 percent
advance for Prudential. MetLife Inc., the largest U.S. life
insurer, has rallied 12 percent since Dec. 31.  The individual life unit had net income of $36 million in
the second quarter, compared with $46 million a year earlier,
Hartford said in a regulatory filing.  McGee has said he expects to reach a deal for the life unit
by the end of this year. Hartford, based in the Connecticut city
of the same name, will be more focused on property-casualty
coverage after the asset sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  