-- Pussy Riot Sensation Challenges Putin Crackdown on Dissent
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-08-17T10:44:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/pussy-riot-sensation-challenges-putin-crackdown-on-dissent.html
A Moscow court is scheduled to
deliver its verdict today in the trial of three female punk
performers whose prosecution has become an international symbol
of President  Vladimir Putin ’s intolerance for dissent.  Prosecutors are seeking three-year prison terms for the
Pussy Riot band members, who are charged with hooliganism and
inciting religious hatred for performing a  “punk prayer”  in
the country’s main Christian Orthodox place of worship in
February urging Putin’s removal.  Whatever the outcome, the case has galvanized a fractious
political opposition as authorities ratchet up pressure by
prosecuting leaders and other activists. Putin, who faced the
biggest demonstrations against his 12-year rule last year, will
find it hard to reverse course now, said Igor Bunin, head of the
Center for Political Technology in Moscow.  “Putin has become a hostage of the process of
repression,” Bunin said by phone. “He’s in a trap. He can’t
quit without losing face.”  Governments from the U.S. to  Europe  have condemned the
trial, while pop stars such as Madonna, Sting and  Paul McCartney , who Putin invited to the Kremlin in 2003 before a Red
Square concert, have backed the women.  Public Disquiet  Supporters of Pussy Riot plan to stage rallies today in
more than 65 cities, including  London , Paris,  New York ,  San
Francisco  and  Buenos Aires , according to a campaigners’  website .
In Russia, public disquiet at the treatment of the activists,
two of whom are young mothers, has grown even if many disapprove
of their protest in Moscow’s Christ the Savior Cathedral.  A  poll  published at the end of July by the independent
 Levada Center  showed that while 47 percent of Russians consider
Pussy Riot violated society’s moral values, 54 percent opposed
jailing them. Nadezhda Tolokonnikova, 22, Ekaterina Samutsevich,
30, and Maria Alekhina, 24, have been held for five months.
Judge Marina Syrova is scheduled to start reading the verdict in
Khamovnichesky District Court at 3 p.m.  A crowd of journalists joined supporters and opponents of
Pussy Riot outside the court, where Yukos Oil Co. billionaire
 Mikhail Khodorkovsky  received his second conviction on fraud and
money-laundering charges in December 2010. The lawyer of one of
the defendants, Nikolai Polozov, said he didn’t rule out that
the judge will delay announcing the verdict until a later date.  Slumping Ratings  Putin and Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev ’s approval ratings
slumped this month to the lowest levels since mass protests
erupted in December, when tens of thousands took to the streets
to denounce Putin and alleged fraud in parliamentary elections.
A crackdown on demonstrators has since ensued, including
embezzlement charges that could see protest leader Alexey Navalny jailed for 10 years.  Putin, 59, who handed the presidency to Medvedev, 46, in
2008 after serving the constitutional maximum of two consecutive
terms, took back the reins from his protégé in May.  While there have been no major opposition demonstrations
since an estimated 18,000 people gathered in central Moscow June
12, the movement may be re-energized by the Pussy Riot trial and
other concerns over the independence of the judiciary, according
to  Olga Kryshtanovskaya , a Moscow-based political analyst.  ‘New Signal’  “This can provide a new signal that will trigger a fresh
wave of protests,” said Kryshtanovskaya, who’s also a member of
the ruling United Russia party. “The opposition has united,
organized itself and grown in numbers. They are fighting for
power, for real changes. This is very dangerous.”  The case has split the pro-government camp. The organizer
of a Kremlin-backed youth camp  challenged Putin  last month over
the trial and a general lack of judicial independence as well as
illegal detentions and propaganda on state television.  “The reason for many of the problems I’ve talked about is
the impossibility to get a change of government” in  Russia ,
Dmitry Ternovsky told Putin at the camp at Lake Seliger,
northwest of Moscow, according to a transcript posted on the
Kremlin’s website.  Some opposition figures have criticized the band’s
cathedral performance in a country where 69 percent of its 142
million people identify themselves as Orthodox, according to a
2011 Levada poll.  ‘Blessed Virgin’  “Holy Mother, Blessed Virgin, drive Putin away,” Pussy
Riot sang in front of the altar of the cathedral in February,
weeks before the presidential election. Navalny, an Orthodox
Christian, said on his  blog  in March that he didn’t approve of
the “publicity” stunt in a sacred place, though they shouldn’t
be in jail.  One of the defendants, Tolokonnikova, was filmed having sex
with her husband in a zoological museum in Moscow while pregnant
a few days before Medvedev was elected president in 2008. The
event, which involved other members of a radical art collective,
was posted on the Internet.  “The Putin system has made a PR catastrophe out of a
situation that could have been easily contained with an
administrative fine for a public order offense,” said John
Lough, associate fellow of the Russian and Eurasia Program at
the London-based Royal Institute of International Affairs.  “The result has been to sow divisions within the ruling
elite about how to handle the case and at the same time to
create new dividing lines in society,” Lough said on the
research group’s  website .  Putin Criticized  Putin, who has been criticized by the U.S. and Europe for
his human-rights record since coming to power in 2000, including
the imprisonment of Khodorkovsky, was asked about Pussy Riot
this month during a visit to London to meet U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron .  Putin said there wasn’t “anything good” about their
behavior, but they shouldn’t be judged “too severely.”  The head of the Kremlin’s human-rights commission, Mikhail
Fedotov, said yesterday he opposes any conviction, even if the
band members are freed immediately, calling their protest
“minor hooliganism.”  “Top officials are in a cold sweat because of this
trial,” said  Gleb Pavlovsky , a former Kremlin adviser who heads
the Moscow-based Effective Policy Foundation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  