-- Qatar Buys Stake in Heathrow Owner for 900 Million Pounds
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-08-17T16:24:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/qatar-buys-stake-in-heathrow-owner-baa-for-900-million-pounds.html
Qatar Holding LLC, the investment
arm of the Middle East country’s sovereign-wealth fund, agreed
to pay 900 million pounds ($1.4 billion) for a 20 percent stake
in BAA Ltd., which owns  London ’s Heathrow airport,  Europe ’s
busiest hub.  Qatar Holding will acquire a 10.62 percent stake in FGP
Topco Ltd., BAA’s parent company, from  Ferrovial SA (FER)  for 478
million pounds, the Spanish infrastructure company said in a
statement today. Qatar Holding also agreed to buy a 5.63 percent
stake from Britannia Airport Partners and 3.75 percent from GIC
Special Investments Pte Ltd., according to the statement.  “The sale of this stake in BAA is part of Ferrovial’s
strategy of establishing a market valuation of our assets and
improving the structure of our investment portfolio,” Ferrovial
Chief Executive Officer Inigo Meiras said in the statement.  Qatar uses wealth accumulated from the world’s third-
largest gas reserves to acquire regional and European assets.
Qatar Holding bought Harrods Ltd. in 2010, and the sovereign
wealth fund has taken an 11.6 percent stake in Swiss miner
 Xstrata Plc. (XTA)   The deal is pending regulatory approval and is expected to
be closed by year end, Ferrovial said. The transaction will help
the Madrid-based company boost liquidity and gain “flexibility
to undertake investments in infrastructure and services
projects,” it said. Barclays Plc advised Qatar on the deal, a
spokesman for the London-based bank said via e-mail.  “Even though Ferrovial wasn’t as highly leveraged as other
construction companies such as ACS or Sacyr, the deal makes
perfect sense as BAA is a very liquid asset and helps the
Spanish firm boost its financial structure,” Francisco Salvador, a Madrid-based analyst at FGA/MG Valores, said by
phone.  Ferrovial shares climbed 5.9 percent to 9.56 euros at the
close of trading in  Madrid , valuing the company at 7 billion
euros ($8.62 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  