-- Rang Dong Premium Drops; Kutubu Exports to Resume: Asia Crude
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-08-17T10:18:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/rang-dong-premium-drops-kutubu-exports-to-resume-asia-crude.html
Vietnam ’s Rang Dong crude for
October traded at lower premiums than earlier deals. Exports of
 Papua New Guinea ’s Kutubu crude may start next week after
stopping late July.  PV Oil Co., Vietnam’s state-owned oil marketing company,
sold 200,000 barrels of Rang Dong for October. Premiums ranged
from parity to $1 a barrel over benchmark dated Brent, said
three people who participate in the market, asking not to be
identified because the information is confidential.  The levels paid for this cargo were lower than the most
recent deals. The company signed six-month contracts to sell the
grade from October to March at premiums of $2.50 to $2.60 a
barrel earlier this month, three people said Aug. 13.  PV Oil offered to sell 400,000 barrels each of Bunga Kekwa
and Bunga Orkid crude for October loading, according to a tender
document obtained by Bloomberg News. Bids are due Aug. 23.  Oil Search Ltd. (OSH)  may start exporting Kutubu Blend crude as
early as next week from Papua New Guinea after finding no leaks
in its offshore loading terminal.  Testing at the Kumul Marine Terminal has “found no source
of any leak in the oil export system,” and inspections will
continue over the next few days, according to a  release today .
Oil Search shut the terminal when droplets, totaling an
estimated 1 barrel of crude, were seen on the sea surface,
according to a July 26 statement.  “Should this work confirm present conclusions, Oil Search
expects to return to normal operations early next week,” the
company said.  Oil Search’s Papua New Guinea operation was producing about
30,000 barrels a day and typically exporting two cargoes a month
before the incident, Ann Diamant, the investor-relations manager,
said in a phone interview Aug. 14.  SK and Iran  SK Innovation Co. (096770) ,  South Korea ’s biggest oil refiner, will
resume importing Iranian crude in September. It is set to
conclude talks to use the Persian Gulf nation’s tankers, Yoo
Jung Min, a spokesman at the Seoul-based company, said by phone
today. The first shipment is expected in September.  Qatar International Petroleum Marketing Co., known as
Tasweeq, sold six cargoes of Al-Shaheen crude for loading in
October at premiums of $1.10 to $1.40 a barrel to benchmark
Dubai crude, said three people who participate in the market,
asking not to be identified because they aren’t authorized to
speak to the media. Buyers included Exxon Mobil Corp., Chevron
Corp. and Reliance Industries Ltd, two of the people said.  The October Brent-Dubai exchange for swaps, which measures
the European oil’s premium to the Mideast marker, tumbled $1.35
to $4.05 a barrel, according to data from PVM Oil Associates
Ltd., a London-based broker. The November EFS fell 44 cents to
$3.74.  Refining Profits  Profits from refining a barrel of benchmark Dubai crude
into fuels such as diesel and gasoline priced in the regional
trading hub of Singapore averaged $6.46 during the last five
days, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The 30-day
average is $5.53, the highest since March.  Dubai crude’s  backwardation , when the price for near-term
deliveries is greater than later supplies, fell 3 cents. Spot
prices were 90 cents a barrel more than October levels,
according to data from PVM.  Oman oil for October rose dropped 11 cents to settle at
$111.60 a barrel at 12:30 p.m. on the Dubai Mercantile Exchange.  Trafigura Beheer BV bought all three Dubai partial cargoes
sold today, according to a survey of people who monitor the
Platts pricing window. The trader bought two of the 25,000
barrel lots from Phibro LLC at $111.05 and $111.15 a barrel, and
one from SK Innovation at $111.05.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in  Singapore  at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  