-- Treasuries Snap Four-Day Selloff, Head for 4th Week Drop
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-08-17T21:16:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/treasuries-snap-loss-as-technical-sign-curbs-4-week-slide.html
Treasuries halted a four-day decline
after a technical indicator showed 10-year yields have climbed
to levels that may increase investor demand for  U.S. government
debt .  A selloff paused when 10-year yields climbed as high as
1.86 percent yesterday, matching the 200-day  moving average ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Treasuries headed for a
fourth straight weekly decline, the longest streak since
December 2010, as reports on building permits, industrial
production, retail sales,  consumer confidence  and jobs all
showed improvement. So-called convexity-related hedging by
holders of mortgage-backed securities may have contributed to
declines, according to analysts at Bank of America Corp.  “We seem to be trying to get our footing in this 1.80
percent to 1.85 percent area,” said  John Briggs , a U.S.
government bond strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s
RBS Securities unit in  Stamford , Connecticut, one of 21 primary
dealers that trade with the  Federal Reserve . “We could generate
a near-term rally just because of the technicals.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  fell two basis points or 0.02
percentage point to 1.81 percent at 5 p.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data.  The price of the 1.625
percent security due in August 2022 rose 7/32 or $2.19 per
$1,000 face value to 98 10/32.  Futures Positions  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators reversed
from a net-short position to a net-long position in 10-year note
futures in the week ending Aug. 14, according to U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data.  Speculative long positions, or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions by 32,336 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade.  Last week, traders were net-short 14,595
contracts.  The 10-year yield has climbed 35 basis points since July
20, marking gains in each of the four weeks since, the longest
run of increases since the period ended Dec. 24, 2010. Yields
have climbed 15 basis points this week, the most since the week
ended June 8 when they rose 18 basis points from a then-record
low 1.44 percent.  Rising Treasury yields help drive  mortgage rates  higher,
triggering convexity-related hedging from holders of mortgage-
backed securities, wrote  Priya Misra  and Shyam Rajan, interest-
rate strategists at Bank of America in New York, in a note to
clients today.  Mortgage Hedges  Rising mortgage rates decrease the risk of mortgage
refinancing, which increases bond holders’ duration. The hedging
spurs demand to pay fixed rates in swaps, driving swap rates
higher and swap spreads wider.  Convexity-related hedging may “have been responsible for
the last 10 basis points of the selloff,” they wrote.  U.S. government securities have handed investors a 1.6
percent loss this month as of yesterday, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes, as economic data exceeded
forecasts and the  European debt crisis  eased. An index of
sovereign bonds around the world slid 0.7 percent, reflecting
waning demand for the relative safety of debt.  “Rates have backed up significantly,” said  Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury trading at Bank of Nova Scotia in New
York, a primary dealer. “I don’t think a lot of things have
changed. The economy remains fragile, the situation in Europe
remains a wild card.”  The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of stocks returned 3.2
percent including reinvested dividends, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Economic Data  The index of U.S. leading economic indicators climbed more
than forecast in July, a sign of sustained expansion in the
world’s largest economy. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary August index of consumer sentiment
increased to 73.6, the highest level since May, from 72.3 the
prior month.  U.S. retail sales rose 0.8 percent in July, a report on
Aug. 14 showed, above the median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg survey. A separate report on Aug. 3 showed the U.S.
added 163,000 jobs last month, more than the 100,000 projected
by analysts.  Signs of improvement in the economy have boosted yields as
investors reduced bets that the Fed will start another
quantitative easing program when it meets on Sept. 12-13.  “You can see interests rates go modestly higher from
here,”  Jeffrey Rosenberg , chief investment strategist for fixed
income at BlackRock Inc. in New York, which has $3.68 trillion
under management, said during an interview on Bloomberg
Television with  Tom Keene . “We have a 2 percent year-end
forecast. What is going to cap any of this increases in  interest
rates  are the fiscal cliff issues, constraints on the  U.S.
economy .”  Yield Spread  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and same-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
trader expectations for consumer prices during the life of the
debt, has widened to 2.25 percentage points from 2.08 percentage
points a month ago. The average during the past decade is 2.15
percentage points.  Germany ’s  Chancellor Angela Merkel  backed the  European
Central Bank ’s conditions for helping reduce borrowing costs in
indebted countries, saying Germany is “in line” with the ECB’s
approach to defending the euro. Merkel is Also considering
easing Greece’s bailout terms, fanning tensions with members of
her coalition who oppose giving the Greek government any more
concessions, two German lawmakers said.  The difference in yields between U.S. and German 10-year
bonds reached its widest point since June 6, with U.S. yields
exceeding German yields by 32 basis points, or 0.32 percentage
point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  