-- U.S. Revises Payment Terms for Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-08-17T21:28:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/treasury-accelerates-withdrawal-of-fannie-freddie-backing.html
The U.S. Treasury Department is
altering how  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac  pay taxpayers for the
government’s stake in the firms, ending a system that sometimes
required them to spend more on dividends than they earned.  The mortgage companies, which have drawn $190 billion in
aid and paid $46 billion in dividends since being taken over by
U.S. regulators in 2008, will turn over any quarterly profits to
the Treasury, the agency said today. The change replaces a
requirement that the companies pay quarterly dividends of 10
percent on the government’s nearly 80 percent stake.  Fannie Mae, based in  Washington , and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  of McLean,
 Virginia , also will be required to shrink their investments in
mortgages and mortgage-backed securities by 15 percent annually,
up from 10 percent, the Treasury said.  “We are taking the next step toward responsibly winding
down  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, while continuing to support the
necessary process of repair and recovery in the housing
market,” Michael Stegman, counselor to the secretary of the
Treasury for housing finance policy, said in the statement.  Both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac this month reported second-
quarter profits even after paying dividends on Treasury’s
preferred shares, marking the first time either company had
enough revenue to avoid taking a Treasury draw since the first
quarter of 2011. In some quarters, the government-sponsored
enterprises sought aid because operating profits were exceeded
by their dividend obligations.  Preferred Shares  Fannie Mae’s 8.25 percent preferred perpetual shares
slumped 55 percent to $1.05 as of 4 p.m. after the Treasury
Department announcement.  One motivation for the change was Treasury’s concern that
investors would be skittish about buying GSE bonds after Jan. 1,
when a ceiling on government support for the companies kicks in,
according to a banker who discussed the policy with Treasury
officials. Each company will be limited after that to no more
than $200 billion in taxpayer support.  Treasury spokesman  Matt Anderson  declined to comment on the
agency’s motivation beyond the contents of the statement.  The new system means that the companies will be unlikely to
reach the aid ceiling, analysts for Barclays Research said in an
e-mailed report.  “This puts to rest any worries about GSE credit risk even
in intermediate maturities,” the Barclays analysts said.  Yields Fall  A Bloomberg index of yields on Fannie Mae-guaranteed
mortgage bonds trading closest to face value fell about 1 basis
point to 129 basis points, or 1.29 percentage points, higher
than an average of five- and 10-year Treasury rates as of 3 p.m.
in  New York . The spread yesterday reached the widest in a month.
The yield relative to  U.S. government debt  on its unsecured
notes due August 2017 fell 4 basis points to 14 basis points,
the lowest since the debt’s July 18 issuance.  The new payment structure accelerates the rate at which the
risk in the companies’ portfolios is transferred to private
investors and makes it impossible for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
to rebuild capital. At the same time, it doesn’t address the
broader question of the future of the two companies, which own
or guarantee about 60 percent of U.S. home loans.  Republicans in Congress have called for an end to Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has
said he will propose a housing finance overhaul that may include
dismantling the firms. Geithner said at the beginning of this
year that the administration would release a wind-down plan by
the spring. No plan has been released.  ‘Blunts Efforts’  Representative  Spencer Bachus , the Alabama Republican who
leads the House Financial Services Committee, said Treasury’s
move “blunts efforts to reform Fannie and Freddie.”  “The administration took its first step toward GSE reform
in nearly four years today,” Bachus said in a statement.
“Unfortunately, rather than announcing steps to wind down
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the administration opted to create a
permanent, off-budget source of funding for housing that it will
control.”  Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey Republican, said
the new policy amounted to “continuing to kick the can.”  “Instead of devoting time and energy towards prolonging
bailouts, the Obama Administration should work with Congress to
wind these companies down and create a new and sustainable
housing finance system where taxpayers are not at risk,”
Garrett said in an e-mailed statement.  Peter Wallison , co-director of the  American Enterprise
Institute ’s program on financial policy and a frequent critic of
the GSEs, said the new arrangement will help ensure the
companies eventually are wound down.  ‘Good Idea’  “The most significant issue here is whether Fannie and
Freddie will come back to life because their profits will enable
them to re-capitalize themselves and then it will look as though
it is feasible for them to return as private companies backed by
the government,” Wallison said in a telephone interview. “What
the Treasury Department seems to be doing here, and I think it’s
a really good idea, is to deprive them of all their capital so
that doesn’t happen.”  Karen Shaw Petrou, founder and managing partner of Federal
Financial Analytics in Washington, said winding down the GSEs
isn’t “a realistic prospect any time soon.”  “Regardless of this agreement, the GSEs will still be the
bulwark of U.S. mortgage finance -- not exactly a wind-down,”
she said in a statement. “Treasury could have changed the
agreement any time over the past four years and, had it done so,
the GSEs now would be a lot more stable and a real wind-down a
lot more likely.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gregory Mott at 
 gmott1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  