-- Treasuries Snap Loss as Technical Sign Curbs 4-Week Slide
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-08-17T06:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/treasuries-set-for-weekly-loss-before-leading-indicactors.html
Treasuries interrupted a four-week
rout after a technical indicator showed yields have climbed to
levels that may increase demand.  A “spectacular selloff” in prices paused when 10-year
rates climbed as high as 1.86 percent yesterday, matching the
200-day  moving average , said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income
strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in
 London . Treasuries tumbled this month as data on building
permits, industrial production, retail sales and jobs all showed
improvement.  The 10-year  yield  fell one basis point from yesterday’s
closing level to 1.82 percent as of 7:25 a.m. in London,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The 1.625 percent
security due in August 2022 rose 1/8, or $1.25 cents per $1,000
face amount, to 98 7/32. The rate climbed 36 basis points over
four weeks, the longest run of increases since December 2010.  “We have seen a liquidation,” said Akira Takei, the head
of the international fixed-income department at Mizuho Asset
Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of $41.5 billion
and is a unit of  Japan ’s third-biggest publicly traded bank.
“The U.S. Treasury market now has very good value.”  Takei said he sold 10-year note futures contracts in July
and is considering buying them back.  Japan’s 10-year rate fell 2 1/2 basis points, or 0.025
percentage point, to 0.83 percent. It was the first decline in
four days.  Rebounding Indicators  The index of U.S. leading economic indicators probably rose
0.2 percent in July from June, rebounding from a 0.3 percent
decline, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists
before the Conference Board releases the figure today. The
report gauges of the outlook for the next three to six months.  There’s less chance the  Federal Reserve  will increase its
bond purchases to spur the economy, a policy known as
quantitative easing, Chatwell said yesterday in an interview on
the “Bloomberg - The First Word” radio program with Ken
Prewitt.  “It’s quite a spectacular selloff,” he said. “There’s a
lot more optimism within the market with regard to the outlook
for the  U.S. economy .” There’s less risk that the Fed has to
undertake more quantitative easing “in the short-to-medium
term,” he said.  Yields at the 200-day average show there has been an
“overshoot” in the market, he said.  ‘Bearish Momentum’  “The bearish  momentum  is very strong” in the Treasury
market, said Will Tseng, who studies technical levels for
Treasuries at Shin Kong Life Insurance Co., which is based in
Taipei and has the equivalent of $52.8 billion in assets. “I
don’t think the 200-day level will be a barrier to stop the
selloff.”  The next target will be 2 percent if yields rise beyond the
200-day average, Tseng said. He is avoiding Treasuries, he said.  Fed Reserve Bank of Minneapolis President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said the U.S. central bank has gone too far by
pledging to hold its main  interest rate  near zero at least
through late 2014. The Fed reiterated the pledge Aug. 1 as it
seeks to support the U.S. economy.  “I would not have chosen to put that date as far out as
the committee has chosen,” Kocherlakota said in response to an
audience question after a speech yesterday in Williston,  North
Dakota .  Comparative Returns  U.S. government securities have handed investors a 1.6
percent loss this month as of yesterday, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes, as the nation’s economy and the
 European debt crisis  both showed signs of improving. An index of
sovereign bonds around the world slid 0.7 percent, reflecting
waning demand for the relative safety of debt.  The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of stocks returned 3.1
percent including reinvested dividends, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and same-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
trader expectations for consumer prices over the life of the
debt, has widened to 2.27 percentage points from 2.08 percentage
points a month ago. The average over the past decade is 2.15
percentage points.  Germany ’s  Chancellor Angela Merkel  backed the  European
Central Bank ’s conditions for helping reduce borrowing costs in
indebted countries, saying Germany is “in line” with the ECB’s
approach to defending the euro.  “Time is pressing” on stamping out the debt crisis,
though “on many of these issues we feel we’re on the right
track,” Merkel told reporters in Ottawa yesterday at a joint
press conference with Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper .
Euro-area policy makers “feel committed to do everything we can
to maintain the common currency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  