-- Redrow Gets Bid Approach Led by Chairman Steve Morgan
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-08-31T15:56:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/redrow-advances-on-report-of-u-k-housing-stimulus-london-mover.html
Redrow (RDW)  Plc Chairman  Steve Morgan  is
leading a takeover approach for the U.K. homebuilder that he
founded in 1974 as rising profit margins across the industry
boost share prices.  Bridgemere Securities Ltd., led by Morgan, Toscafund Asset
Management LLP and Penta Capital LLP said they may offer 152
pence a share for Redrow, according to a statement today. That’s
a penny more than yesterday’s closing price and would value the
company at about 562 million pounds ($887 million).  “I would sit tight and take the offer,” said Rachael Applegate, an analyst at  Panmure Gordon & Co. (PMR)  “There’s been on-
and-off rumors for a number of years that Steve Morgan was keen
to take Redrow back if the stock market didn’t value it
fairly.”  Morgan, 59, left Redrow in 2000 and returned as chairman a
decade later after becoming disappointed that the company’s
homes appealed to lower income buyers. He founded the
homebuilder in 1974 and said Redrow was “in my blood” in a
2010 interview. Morgan bought 15.4 percent of Redrow stock in
May, increasing the stake he controls to about 40 percent.
Toscafund owns a 13.8 percent stake, the statement said.  “Clearly we feel that our offer represents a healthy
premium for shareholders,” Charles Armitstead, a spokesman for
Morgan, said in an interview today. Redrow spokeswoman Lucy Legh
declined to comment.  Shares Rise  Redrow, based in Flint,  Wales , climbed 4.1 pence, or 2.7
percent, to 155.1 pence at the 4:30 p.m. close of trading in
 London , the highest since November 2009. The shares, which
gained 3.8 percent yesterday, reached a high of about 545 pence
in December 2006. Redrow is the smallest company in the
Bloomberg EMEA Home Builders Index of seven stocks, which has
risen about 35 percent this year.  In February, Redrow reported first-half pretax profit that
beat analysts’ estimates. Like other U.K. homebuilders, the
company has increased earnings by selling more houses, which are
more profitable than apartments. British  house prices  rose the
most in 2 1/2 years in August,  Nationwide Building Society  said
today.  Redrow will form a committee of independent directors to
consider the approach, the company said in a separate statement.
It asked shareholders to take no action at this time.  The approach represents a 2.5 percent premium to Redrow’s
net asset value, according to Applegate, who has a hold rating
on the shares. A takeover would be the biggest U.K. homebuilding
deal since 2007, when  Taylor Wimpey Plc  was formed through the 5
billion-pound merger of Taylor Woodrow and George Wimpey. Taylor
Wimpey’s market value today is 1.66 billion pounds.  Premium Value  “I don’t see any other bidders emerging, but if the offer
goes away then Redrow won’t trade at a premium to NAV,” she
said by telephone.  Morgan  started  Redrow as a civil engineering company after
borrowing 5,000 pounds from his father. He moved into
homebuilding five years later and went on to buy soccer team
Wolverhampton Wanders after his offer to acquire Premier League
team Liverpool was rejected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 