-- Robin Van Persie Signs Four-Year Contract With Manchester United
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-08-17T11:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/robin-van-persie-signs-four-year-contract-with-manchester-united.html
Robin van Persie  completed his move
to Manchester United by signing a four-year contract, the
English Premier League soccer club said on its website today.  Van Persie will be available for United’s season opener at
Everton in three days. The 29-year-old Dutch striker underwent a
medical exam yesterday after United and Arsenal agreed on a fee
for his sale.  “Robin is a world-class striker with a proven record in
 England  and in European football,” United manager  Alex Ferguson 
said. “His talents need no introduction to our fans, he has
scored a number of goals against us in some classic battles with
his former club.”  United didn’t disclose financial terms of the contract,
which runs through June 2016. The Telegraph reported the deal is
worth 200,000 pounds ($314,000) per week.  Van Persie  led the Premier League with 30 goals last
season. He said July 4 after meeting with manager  Arsene Wenger 
and chief executive officer  Ivan Gazidis  that he wouldn’t extend
his contract with Arsenal, which was due to expire after this
season, because he disagreed with management’s vision for the
club. The Gunners last won a trophy in 2005.  Van Persie joins Japanese midfielder Shinji Kagawa and
English midfielder Nick Powell as new acquisitions since United
was denied a record-extending 20th league championship on the
final day of last season, when crosstown rivals Manchester City
scored two goals in stoppage time to beat Queens Park Rangers
and snatch the title.  “It’s an honor to sign for  Manchester United ,” Van Persie
said. “I am looking forward to following in the footsteps of so
many great strikers, brining my experience and playing my part
to help the team compete for the biggest trophies in the game.”  Van Persie joined Arsenal in 2004 from Feyenoord and scored
132 goals in 278 appearances. He had 37 goals in 48 games in all
competitions last season, when he captained the team, and was
named the Professional Footballers’ Association and Football
Writers’ player of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  