-- Romania to Lure Investors as Bond Risk Drops, BNP Paribas Says
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2012-08-17T13:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/romania-to-lure-investors-as-bond-risk-drops-bnp-paribas-says.html
Romania  is set to win back investors
who sold the country’s assets during its political turmoil last
month as International Monetary Fund support cuts government
bond risk, according to BNP Paribas SA.  Investors should sell Romania’s five-year credit default
swaps against the SovX CEEMEA index of peers in emerging  Europe ,
the  Middle East  and  Africa . Improving creditworthiness is set to
cut the extra cost of insuring the Balkan country’s debt over
the benchmark to 90 basis points from 145, the bank said in a
report today.  The IMF and Romania reached a staff-level agreement to
unlock the next tranche of a precautionary 5 billion-euro ($6.2
billion) loan, the Washington-based lender said on Aug. 14 after
a review of the country’s loan accord. The leu is slightly
undervalued and has scope to appreciate, the IMF said that day.  “The IMF’s comments about the undervaluation of the leu
were particularly helpful in restoring confidence in leu
assets,”  Bartosz Pawlowski , BNP’s London-based chief strategist
for the region, said in the report. The IMF review “should be a
significant trigger for investors who became concerned about the
credit of Romania following the political turmoil,” he said.  Romania’s default swaps were little changed today at 391
basis points, near the lowest level in more than three months.
The country’s 2022 dollar-denominated bonds climbed for a fifth
day, bringing the yield’s decline this week to 32 basis points,
or 0.32 percentage point.  The constitutional court will meet Aug. 21 to debate
whether a July 29 vote to impeach suspended President Traian
Basescu is valid. The power struggle between Basescu and Prime
Minister Victor Ponta in the past two months pushed the leu to
an all-time low of 4.6520 per euro on Aug. 3. The Romanian
currency has gained 1.1 percent since the IMF statement.  The “recovering currency and cheap valuations should
attract inflows,” Pawlowski said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  