-- Trulia Files for $75 Million Initial Public Offering
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2012-08-20T13:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/trulia-files-for-75-million-ipo-with-jpmorgan-deutsche-bank.html
(Corrects information on shareholders in second paragraph
of story that ran on Aug. 17.)  Trulia Inc., an Internet startup
focused on residential real estate, filed to raise $75 million
in an initial public offering, aiming to capitalize on an
improving U.S. housing market.  The San Francisco-based company’s shareholders include
 Accel Partners , Fayez Sarofim & Co. and  Sequoia Capital ,
according to a regulatory filing today, which didn’t specify how
many shares were being offered. The amount is a placeholder
number used to calculate registration fees and may change.  Trulia is a rival to  Zillow Inc. (Z) , which  raised  $69.2
million in its IPO in July 2011 and has seen its shares jump 86
percent since its market debut. The number of new-home building
permits grew in the U.S. last month, indicating that the
industry will keep improving in the second half of the year.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG are managing
Trulia’s offering, with help from RBC Capital Markets LLC,
Needham & Co. and William Blair & Co., according to the filing.
The company may use the deal’s proceeds to acquire businesses
and other assets and plans to list its shares on the  New York 
Stock Exchange under the symbol TRLA.  Trulia’s search engine is used by more than 20 million
people a month to look for homes in specific neighborhoods. The
company offers reviews on local schools and crime rates. The
company makes money through ads on the site and subscriptions
that let real estate agents target users and get their listings
featured prominently.  Trulia’s net loss for the six months ended June 30 widened
to $7.64 million from $2.61 million a year earlier. Revenue for
the period jumped 78 percent to $28.9 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in New York at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  