-- Russian Anti-Putin Punk Band Sentenced to Two Years in Jail
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-08-17T17:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/russian-court-sentences-pussy-riot-punks-to-2-years-in-jail-1-.html
A Russian court jailed three female
punk performers for two years for inciting religious hatred and
hooliganism, prompting international condemnation of the case
that’s become a symbol of President  Vladimir Putin ’s intolerance
for dissent.  Prosecutors had sought three-year prison terms for the
Pussy Riot band members, who performed a “punk prayer” in the
country’s main Christian Orthodox place of worship in February
urging Putin’s removal.  “They deliberately sought a public scandal and they wanted
to insult not only the church workers, but society as a whole,”
the judge, Marina Syrova, said today, rejecting defense
arguments that the women staged a political act. “They deeply
insulted Orthodox believers.”  Nadezhda Tolokonnikova, 22, Ekaterina Samutsevich, 30, and
Maria Alekhina, 24, smiled and waved from inside a glass cage as
the sentence was read out. The judge said she decided on a
shorter jail term because two of the women were young mothers
and none had a criminal record. “Shame,” a person in the
courtroom shouted.  ‘Disproportionate’ Outcome  The U.S. and the European Union criticized the trial’s
outcome as “disproportionate,” while pop stars such as
Madonna, Sting and  Paul McCartney , who Putin invited to the
Kremlin in 2003 before a Red Square concert, have backed the
band members.  “Sentencing of the three young women, two of whom are
mothers of young children, to two years in prison for a
peaceful, if controversial, expression of their views is deeply
troubling,” the EU’s foreign policy chief,  Catherine Ashton ,
said in an e-mailed statement. “This case adds to the recent
upsurge in politically motivated intimidation and prosecution of
opposition activists.”  German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said he was
“concerned” about the effect the sentences would have on
freedom and civil society in Russia. “The harsh verdict bears
no relation” to the group’s protest, Westerwelle said in an e-
mailed statement.  Opposition Movement  The case has galvanized a fractious political opposition as
authorities ratchet up pressure by prosecuting leaders and other
activists. Putin, who has cracked down after facing the biggest
demonstrations against his 12-year rule last year, will find it
hard to reverse course now, said Igor Bunin, head of the Center
for Political Technology in Moscow.  “Putin has become a hostage of the process of
repression,” Bunin said by phone. “He’s in a trap. He can’t
quit without losing face.”  Supporters of Pussy Riot plan to stage rallies today in
more than 65 cities, including London, Paris,  New York ,  San
Francisco  and  Buenos Aires , according to a campaigners’  website .
In Russia, public disquiet at the treatment of the activists has
grown even if many disapprove of their protest in Moscow’s
Christ the Savior Cathedral.  “It’s a mistake not to show them mercy,” the head of the
Kremlin’s human-rights commission, Mikhail Fedotov, said by
phone. “The sentence wasn’t justified and I don’t see any
reason at all under the law to find them guilty.”  Courtroom Clash  Supporters and Orthodox opponents of Pussy Riot clashed in
front of the courtroom before the hearing today, and a large
crowd massed outside after the verdict, shouting “Putin is a
disgrace for Russia.”  Former chess world champion  Garry Kasparov , a leader of the
solidarity movement, was among those detained outside the court,
according to a statement on his website. More than 50 people
were detained outside the court, the state news service RIA
Novosti reported.  A  poll  published at the end of July by the independent
 Levada Center  showed that while 47 percent of Russians consider
Pussy Riot violated society’s moral values, 54 percent opposed
jailing them. The three women have been held for more than five
months since their arrest.  Putin and Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev ’s approval ratings
slumped this month to the lowest levels since mass protests
erupted in December, when tens of thousands took to the streets
to denounce Putin and alleged fraud in parliamentary elections.
A crackdown on demonstrators has since ensued, including
embezzlement charges that could see protest leader Alexey Navalny jailed for 10 years.  While there have been no major opposition demonstrations
since an estimated 18,000 people gathered in central Moscow on
June 12, the movement may be re-energized by the Pussy Riot
trial and other concerns over the independence of the judiciary,
according to  Olga Kryshtanovskaya , a Moscow-based political
analyst.  ‘New Signal’  “This can provide a new signal that will trigger a fresh
wave of protests,” said Kryshtanovskaya, who’s also a member of
the ruling  United Russia  party. “The opposition has united,
organized itself and grown in numbers. They are fighting for
power, for real changes. This is very dangerous.”  The case has split the pro-government camp. The organizer
of a Kremlin-backed youth camp  challenged Putin  last month over
the trial and a general lack of judicial independence as well as
illegal detentions and propaganda on state television.  “The reason for many of the problems I’ve talked about is
the impossibility to get a change of government” in  Russia ,
Dmitry Ternovsky told Putin at the camp at Lake Seliger,
northwest of Moscow, according to a transcript posted on the
Kremlin’s website.  ‘Harsh’ Verdict  A top official in United Russia, Andrei Isayev, called the
verdict “harsh” and expressed the hope that Putin could
intervene, RIA Novosti reported.  The Orthodox Church is appealing to the authorities to show
clemency toward the women, the Moscow Patriarchate said in an e-
mailed statement after the verdict was issued.  “While not casting doubt on the legal justification of the
court’s decision, we ask the authorities of the state to show
mercy within the framework of the law, in the hope that they
will they will refrain from repeating their blasphemous acts,”
the church said in the statement.  Some opposition figures have criticized the band’s
cathedral performance in a country where 69 percent of its 142
million people identify themselves as Orthodox, according to a
2011 Levada poll.  ‘Drive Putin Away’  “Holy Mother, Blessed Virgin, drive Putin away,” masked
Pussy Riot members lip-synced in front of the altar of the
cathedral in February, weeks before the presidential election.
The group later posted the performance online, singing the words
with music. Navalny, an Orthodox Christian, said on his  blog  in
March that he didn’t approve of the “publicity” stunt in a
sacred place, though the women shouldn’t be in jail.  One of the defendants, Tolokonnikova, was filmed having sex
with her husband in a zoological museum in Moscow while pregnant
a few days before Medvedev was elected president in 2008. The
event, which involved other members of a radical art collective,
was posted on the Internet.  As the judge spent three hours today reading out the
verdict, the Pussy Riot defendants, one of whom was wearing a t-
shirt with the words “No Pasaran!’ (They Won’t Pass!), openly
joked at her speech.  ‘‘The Putin system has made a PR catastrophe out of a
situation that could have been easily contained with an
administrative fine for a public order offense,” said John
Lough, associate fellow of the Russian and Eurasia Program at
the London-based Royal Institute of International Affairs.  “The result has been to sow divisions within the ruling
elite about how to handle the case and at the same time to
create new dividing lines in society,” Lough said on the
research group’s  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  