-- Russian Punks Found Guilty After Anti-Putin Church Protest
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-08-17T12:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/russia-court-rules-pussy-riot-punks-are-guilty-of-incitement-1-.html
A Moscow court found three female
punk performers guilty of hooliganism and inciting religious
hatred in a trial that’s become an international symbol of
President  Vladimir Putin ’s intolerance for dissent.  The judge, Marina Syrova, is continuing to read the verdict
and may announce the sentence later today. Prosecutors are
seeking three-year prison terms for the Pussy Riot band members,
who performed a “punk prayer” in the country’s main Christian
Orthodox place of worship in February urging Putin’s removal.  “They deliberately sought a public scandal and they wanted
to insult not only the church workers but society as a whole,”
the judge said. “They deeply insulted Orthodox believers.”  Governments from the U.S. to  Europe  have condemned the
trial, while pop stars such as Madonna, Sting and  Paul McCartney , who Putin invited to the Kremlin in 2003 before a Red
Square concert, have backed the women.  The case has galvanized a fractious political opposition as
authorities ratchet up pressure by prosecuting leaders and other
activists. Putin, who faced the biggest demonstrations against
his 12-year rule last year, will find it hard to reverse course
now, said Igor Bunin, head of the Center for Political
Technology in Moscow.  ‘Repression’ Process  “Putin has become a hostage of the process of
repression,” Bunin said by phone. “He’s in a trap. He can’t
quit without losing face.”  Supporters of Pussy Riot plan to stage rallies today in
more than 65 cities, including  London , Paris,  New York ,  San
Francisco  and  Buenos Aires , according to a campaigners’  website .
In Russia, public disquiet at the treatment of the activists,
two of whom are young mothers, has grown even if many disapprove
of their protest in Moscow’s Christ the Savior Cathedral.  A  poll  published at the end of July by the independent
 Levada Center  showed that while 47 percent of Russians consider
Pussy Riot violated society’s moral values, 54 percent opposed
jailing them. Nadezhda Tolokonnikova, 22, Ekaterina Samutsevich,
30, and Maria Alekhina, 24, have been held for five months.  Putin and Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev ’s approval ratings
slumped this month to the lowest levels since mass protests
erupted in December, when tens of thousands took to the streets
to denounce Putin and alleged fraud in parliamentary elections.
A crackdown on demonstrators has since ensued, including
embezzlement charges that could see protest leader Alexey Navalny jailed for 10 years.  Protest Movement  Putin, 59, who handed the presidency to Medvedev, 46, in
2008 after serving the constitutional maximum of two consecutive
terms, took back the reins from his protégé in May.  While there have been no major opposition demonstrations
since an estimated 18,000 people gathered in central Moscow June
12, the movement may be re-energized by the Pussy Riot trial and
other concerns over the independence of the judiciary, according
to  Olga Kryshtanovskaya , a Moscow-based political analyst.  “This can provide a new signal that will trigger a fresh
wave of protests,” said Kryshtanovskaya, who’s also a member of
the ruling United Russia party. “The opposition has united,
organized itself and grown in numbers. They are fighting for
power, for real changes. This is very dangerous.”  The case has split the pro-government camp. The organizer
of a Kremlin-backed youth camp  challenged Putin  last month over
the trial and a general lack of judicial independence as well as
illegal detentions and propaganda on state television.  Government Change  “The reason for many of the problems I’ve talked about is
the impossibility to get a change of government” in  Russia ,
Dmitry Ternovsky told Putin at the camp at Lake Seliger,
northwest of Moscow, according to a transcript posted on the
Kremlin’s website.  Some opposition figures have criticized the band’s
cathedral performance in a country where 69 percent of its 142
million people identify themselves as Orthodox, according to a
2011 Levada poll.  “Holy Mother, Blessed Virgin, drive Putin away,” Pussy
Riot sang in front of the altar of the cathedral in February,
weeks before the presidential election. Navalny, an Orthodox
Christian, said on his  blog  in March that he didn’t approve of
the “publicity” stunt in a sacred place, though they shouldn’t
be in jail.  One of the defendants, Tolokonnikova, was filmed having sex
with her husband in a zoological museum in Moscow while pregnant
a few days before Medvedev was elected president in 2008. The
event, which involved other members of a radical art collective,
was posted on the Internet.  ‘PR Catastrophe’  “The Putin system has made a PR catastrophe out of a
situation that could have been easily contained with an
administrative fine for a public order offense,” said John
Lough, associate fellow of the Russian and Eurasia Program at
the London-based Royal Institute of International Affairs.  “The result has been to sow divisions within the ruling
elite about how to handle the case and at the same time to
create new dividing lines in society,” Lough said on the
research group’s  website .  Putin, who has been criticized by the U.S. and Europe for
his human-rights record since coming to power in 2000, including
the imprisonment of Yukos Oil Co. billionaire  Mikhail Khodorkovsky , was asked about Pussy Riot this month during a
visit to London to meet U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron .  Putin said there wasn’t “anything good” about their
behavior, but they shouldn’t be judged “too severely.”  The head of the Kremlin’s human-rights commission, Mikhail
Fedotov, said yesterday he opposes any conviction, even if the
band members were freed immediately, calling their protest
“minor hooliganism.”  “Top officials are in a cold sweat because of this
trial,” said  Gleb Pavlovsky , a former Kremlin adviser who heads
the Moscow-based Effective Policy Foundation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  