-- Ryan Revives Old National Fixation on ‘Free Enterprise’
-- B y   L a w r e n c e   B .   G l i c k m a n
-- 2012-08-17T15:48:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/ryan-revives-old-national-fixation-on-free-enterprise-.html
Mitt Romney , the presumptive
Republican nominee for president, regularly invokes free
enterprise, which he has  called  “one of the greatest forces for
good this world has ever known.”  Representative  Paul Ryan , Romney’s recently announced
running mate, uses the phrase even more frequently. In his very
first speech as Romney’s selection, he  called for  a return to the
founding principles of “liberty, freedom, free enterprise.”  According to Romney and Ryan, this traditional, deeply
American system is under assault. Free enterprise, according to
Romney, is “on trial.” According to Ryan, it faces a “dangerous
moment.”  In using this language, the two are part of a long
tradition, one that helps explain how Americans have frequently
mythologized the role of the “free market” and downplayed that of
government in our dynamic economic system.  Ever since the term “free enterprise” was popularized by the
 National Association of Manufacturers  in the 1930s, critics of
the New Deal and its legacy have been issuing urgent warnings.
Lacking a positive definition, the idea of free enterprise has
been expressed largely through a language of fear and loss.  ‘Frontal Assault’  In 1945, Ira Mosher, NAM’s leader, lamented the “unmitigated
warfare that has been waged for a decade against the free
competitive enterprise system.” A pamphlet issued by the
association, called “The Eleventh Hour for American Enterprise,”
declared that 1946 was “the year of decision…if the American way
of life is to be preserved.”  Even long after the exigencies of the New Deal and World War
II, business leaders charged that free enterprise was “barely
hanging on,” (1974) and “is dying” (1976, 1977). The famous
“Powell Memo,” prepared by the soon-to-be Supreme Court Justice
Lewis Powell for the NAM in 1971, described a “frontal assault”
on free enterprise. In 1987, the economist Walter Williams
claimed that “for the last half century, free enterprise and what
it implies have been under unrelenting attack.”  The language of crisis and climax has been part of this
discourse from the beginning. “We’re on the last mile to
collectivism,” declared former President  Herbert Hoover  in 1949.
“It is past midnight,” said Ruth Alexander, the libertarian
columnist, in 1952. “We have already made the transition from
Constitutional Government to Socialism, sometimes called the
‘Welfare’ state. I use the terms interchangeably.”  As the last comment suggests, supporters of free enterprise
have often posited a “one drop rule” -- that is, any expansion of
regulation or the welfare state threatens to destroy the
political-economic edifice of the nation. They believed that free
enterprise was, notwithstanding its centrality, a highly fragile
institution. Even at the height of the  Cold War , advocates were
quick to note that the real danger to free enterprise didn’t come
from the external threat of Soviet communism but from the
internal acceptance and expansion of the New Deal.  Free enterprise was thus an either/or doctrine -- “Freedom
or Socialism,” as the slogan of the  Republican Party  had it in
1952. The idea that “there is no middle road” between freedom and
a “planned economy,” and between a planned economy and socialism,
enabled them to conflate liberal reform with totalitarianism. As
Donald I. Rogers of the  New York  Herald-Tribune wrote in 1962,
“There is no essential difference between an absolute monarchy, a
dictatorship, a fascist form of government and a Welfare State.”  Such rhetoric enabled them to narrow the spectrum of the
politically acceptable. If even mild measures inevitably lead us
down a slippery slope toward dictatorship, such reforms can
easily be depicted as radical.  Blog-Age Dualism  To read conservative blogs in the age of President  Barack Obama , or to listen to many Republicans in Congress, is to find
the same dualism repeated. Any change in the degree of the
government’s involvement in the economy (more regulation, an
expanded safety net, stimulus spending) marks, in this view, a
change in kind. Critics of Obama’s health-care overhaul, for
example, regularly describe the law not only as socialistic but
as an abandonment of our constitutional heritage.  Many free enterprisers thought the legacy of the New Deal
would culminate not just in socialism but in servitude. Even
before Friedrich Hayek’s “The Road to Serfdom” was published in
1944, advocates of free enterprise equated the welfare state with
slavery. As Indiana Representative Samuel B. Pettengill said in
1937, “this may well be the last generation of Americans to
receive and cherish the legacy of liberty.” Before becoming
governor of  California ,  Ronald Reagan  gave a speech on the
dangers of Medicare in which he famously said that unless health-
care reform was defeated, “one of these days we are going to
spend our sunset years telling our children and our children’s
children, what it once was like in America when men were free.”  Pointing out the excesses of this rhetoric can help reclaim
another meaning of free enterprise -- one promoted by presidents
from  Franklin D. Roosevelt  to Dwight Eisenhower to Obama. This
view celebrated the mixed economy that has characterized the U.S.
since the era of “internal improvements” -- state-sponsored
canals and railroads -- in the early years of the Republic, and
that has continued to nurture new industries ever since. Invoking
the history rather than the myth of free enterprise would help
avoid the misleading and binary rhetoric that has characterized
so much of our political discourse -- from the “Eleventh Hour” to
“ You didn’t build that .”  (Lawrence B. Glickman is professor of history at the
University of  South Carolina .  He is the author most recently of
“Buying Power: A History of Consumer Activism in America.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Lawrence B. Glickman at
 glickman@mailbox.sc.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin at
   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 