-- Ryan Would Play ’Similar’ Role to Cheney, Norquist Says
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-08-18T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/ryan-would-play-similar-role-to-cheney-norquist-says.html
Republican vice presidential
candidate  Paul Ryan ’s role in shaping economic and tax policy in
a  Mitt Romney  administration would be “similar” to the one
taken by former Vice President  Dick Cheney  in national security
issues during  George W. Bush ’s presidency, Americans for Tax
Reform President  Grover Norquist  said.  “I think that he would certainly have a large footprint,”
Norquist said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital With  Al Hunt ” airing this weekend.  Norquist, an anti-tax advocate, predicted that as president
Romney would push through a comprehensive tax-code overhaul
based on elements of Ryan’s budget plan “with the rough edges
taken off and changes here and there.”  Norquist, 55, said such a measure would be similar to the
tax-cut package enacted in 1981 by President  Ronald Reagan  based
on a proposal put forth by then-Representative  Jack Kemp  of New
York and then-Senator William Roth of Delaware, both
Republicans. Reagan endorsed the Kemp-Roth plan during his 1980
presidential campaign.  If Romney ousts President  Barack Obama  in the Nov. 6
election, his administration and Congress early in 2013 will
strike a long-term deficit reduction deal that doesn’t include a
net revenue increase, Norquist predicted.  “It’ll look like the Ryan plan,” he said. “It will not
have a tax increase in it.”  Ryan’s Budget  Ryan, the House Budget Committee chairman who is the most
influential Republican in Congress on fiscal matters, wrote the
House-passed budget proposal that would reduce top tax rates for
individual and corporate income to 25 percent from 35 percent
and eliminate the alternative minimum tax. His plan, rejected by
the Democratic-controlled Senate, would reduce the number of
individual income-tax brackets to two from six, with the bottom
rate set at 10 percent.  An advantage of Ryan’s budget is that it already has been
scored by the non-partisan  Congressional Budget Office  and
“it’s been written down,” Norquist said.  “The entire Republican caucus in the House and Senate has
vetted it, can speak to it, has voted for it once,” he said.
“So it’s sort of been through the process.”  If Obama wins re-election, the fight over how to balance
the  federal budget  and overhaul the U.S. tax code would “look
an awful lot like what it did for the last two years,” with
Republican lawmakers “saying we’re not going to raise your
taxes and we’re not letting you spend the money you want to
spend,” Norquist said.  Anti-Tax Pledge  Norquist is the architect of a pledge not to raise taxes
that all except six  House Republicans  and seven Senate
Republicans have signed, and which Democrats have criticized as
the reason Republicans oppose revenue increases.  Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican, has
said he would be willing to eliminate some tax breaks or raise
fees, in violation of the pledge, to avert $54.7 billion in
automatic cuts to defense programs set to start taking effect in
January. The cuts are part of the first installment of $1.2
trillion in automatic cuts to defense and non-defense programs
required by the 2011 law that raised the federal debt ceiling.  Norquist said he spoke to Graham and told him his position
wasn’t based in reality.  “He has this imaginary unicorn that he hopes to reach,”
Norquist said, adding that Graham wanted Democrats to give him
“trillions of dollars of entitlement reforms, less spending”
in exchange for a “teeny tax increase.”  ’Unicorn’ Search  “If he wants to go out and look for unicorns, he can have
that conversation,” Norquist said. “He’s going to be lonely
out there, because there are no Democrats and no Republicans in
that zone.”  Graham spokesman Kevin Bishop didn’t immediately respond to
a request for comment.  Discussing Romney’s recent overseas trip, Norquist said
Romney “was doing several things” and got “mixed up” when
during his stop in Israel, the presumed Republican presidential
nominee said cultural differences partially explained what he
characterized as Israel’s economic superiority to Palestine.  “It was an odd place to make that case,” Norquist said,
“I mean, go back 20 years, the Israeli economy pre-Netanyahu’s
economic reforms was not doing very well. The culture didn’t
change. The  tax code  changed, and the regulatory base changed,
and the rule of law changed and got better in Israel.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  