-- Samsung Drops After Resting Case in Apple Patent Dispute
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-08-17T07:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/samsung-drops-after-resting-case-in-apple-patent-dispute.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  fell the
most in more than seven weeks in Seoul trading after it rested
its case in a patent-infringement trial with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in
 California .  The stock of the world’s largest maker of TVs and mobile
phones  dropped  3.7 percent and was the biggest  drag  on the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index. Samsung, a key supplier and competitor
of Apple, had  rallied  23 percent from July 12 through yesterday
as it forecast higher demand for panels and handsets, and
retained its position as the world’s biggest phone seller.  Samsung rested its case in the trial after putting on
witnesses who said Apple would owe the Suwon, South Korea-based
company as much as $421.8 million in royalties. Apple sued
Samsung in April 2011, accusing it of copying patented designs
for mobile devices such as iPhones, and the South Korean company
countersued.  “There seems to be some profit-taking interest, especially
as the recent  gain  has brought the stock close to its previous
high,” Song Myung Sup, an analyst at HI Investment & Securities
Co., said by phone today. “Uncertainty over upcoming rulings on
legal battles with Apple is also weighing on sentiment.”  Apple accounts for about 9 percent of Samsung’s revenue,
making it the company’s biggest customer, according to a
Bloomberg supply-chain analysis. Samsung is the exclusive
manufacturer of Apple-designed chips for iPhones and iPads.  The world’s biggest maker of dynamic random-access memory
chips, also dropped on speculation that this month’s declines in
prices for the computer-memory devices may be more than
expected, Lim Dori, an analyst at Shinyoung Securities Co.,
said. Samsung rose to 1,348,000 won on Aug. 10, after hitting
a record 1,410,000 won on May 2.  Samsung slid to 1,295,000 won at the close of trading in
 Seoul  today, the biggest decline since June 25. The  stock  has
advanced 22 percent this year, compared with a 6.6 percent gain
in the benchmark Kospi index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net 
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net 
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  