-- San Bernardino Bankruptcy Judge Sets Oct. 24 Deadline
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-08-17T18:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/san-bernardino-bankruptcy-judge-sets-oct-24-deadline.html
Creditors of San Bernardino,
 California , have until Oct. 24 to decide whether they will try
to have the city’s bankruptcy petition thrown out, a judge said
in the city’s first day in court.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Meredith M. Jury approved the
deadline after creditors, including bondholders and
firefighters, asked for more time. Under Chapter 9 of the U.S.
 Bankruptcy Code , used by governmental entities that can’t pay
their debts, the city must prove that it is eligible for court
protection from creditors.  Should creditors decide to challenge San Bernardino’s
eligibility, the bankruptcy could take months longer to
complete, lawyers who have worked on other California municipal
bankruptcies said.  “Time is no one’s friend in a Chapter 9 case,” Ron Oliner, who represents the city’s police union, said in court.
“I am encouraged to hear that it is not going to drift.”  San Bernardino, where about 209,000 people live about 60
miles (97 kilometers) east of  Los Angeles , is the third
California city to file bankruptcy since June. The city said a
fiscal emergency, brought on by a $46 million budget shortfall,
forced it to file despite a state law that normally requires
towns and counties to negotiate with creditors first in a
process overseen by a neutral arbitrator.  By declaring an emergency, the city sidestepped that
requirement.  ‘Essential Services’  The filing “was necessary to assure that the city will be
able to continue to operate to provide essential services,” the
city’s main bankruptcy attorney Paul Glassman said in court
today. “If the city could not continue to operate it would be
tragic and we think unacceptable.”  Under Chapter 9, creditors, including unions, lenders and
bondholders, can force a municipality to prove it is eligible to
remain in bankruptcy after a case is filed. In the city of
Vallejo’s bankruptcy, which was filed in 2008, a battle over
eligibility added months and delayed work on a reorganization
plan they need to exit court protection.  San Bernardino had originally proposed a deadline of Sept.
21. Creditors, including the main union for firefighters,
National Public Finance Guarantee Corp., and bondholder Erste
Europaische Pfandbrief und Kommunalkreditbank sought more time.
The city agreed to extend the date to Oct. 24 and to file papers
justifying its bankruptcy by Aug. 31.  ‘Wishful Thinking’  Glassman said he hoped the city’s papers would persuade
creditors not to challenge eligibility so that the case could
move forward more quickly.  “That may just be wishful thinking,” he said.  The judge agreed.  “Certainly in the history of the few municipal Chapter 9s
I don’t think any have gone through without objections to
eligibility,” Jury said.  After the  City of Vallejo  filed bankruptcy in 2008, three
city unions spent months trying to get the case thrown out, said
Dale Ginter, a lawyer who represented retired city workers in
that case.  Oliner, who represented police officers in the Vallejo
case, said that bankruptcy showed that delays unnecessarily run
up the costs for lawyers and financial advisers.  Creditors may feel they have no choice, even if they think
they will lose a fight over eligibility, Ginter said. That’s
because once a judge rules that a city’s bankruptcy was properly
filed, the city gains the power to try to cancel certain
contracts, like union agreements and leases that are tied to
bond financings, Ginter said.  The right to challenge whether a city is entitled to file
bankruptcy is a key difference between municipal and corporate
bankruptcies. Under Chapter 11, a corporation automatically
gains the right to try to cancel contracts and seek other help
from a court as soon as it files a bankruptcy petition.  The case is In re San Bernardino, 12-28006,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Central District of California (Riverside).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  