-- Santos Expects Australia’s First Shale Gas Sales in October
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-08-17T06:58:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/santos-expects-australia-s-first-shale-gas-sales-in-october-1-.html
Santos Ltd. (STO) , Australia’s third-
largest oil producer, said it will begin sales from the nation’s
first commercial shale gas project after successful drilling
results, driving the stock to the highest level in two months.  The energy company expects first sales in October following
the drilling at the Moomba-191 well in the  Cooper Basin  of
central Australia, Adelaide-based Santos said today as it
reported a 48 percent decline in first-half profit.  Santos is building the $18.5 billion Gladstone liquefied
natural gas project, or GLNG, one of three being developed in
Queensland state to meet rising Asian demand for the fuel. The
company is among domestic and overseas explorers seeking to tap
what the Australian government estimates nationally is almost
400 trillion cubic feet of shale gas resources.  “The Moomba well is an exciting result,” Philipp Kin, a
Sydney-based analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said
in a phone interview. Further development of its shale gas
resources could “put to bed a few of the questions remaining
about whether they have enough gas for GLNG,” he said.  The shares rose 3.2 percent to A$11.78, the highest since
June 20, while the benchmark index gained 0.9 percent.  Outback Region  Gas flowed at a rate of 2.6 million standard cubic feet per
day at the Moomba well, located about 8 kilometers (5 miles)
northeast of the company’s Moomba gas plant, Santos said. Santos
plans to drill its first horizontal shale gas well in the
outback region straddling Queensland and South  Australia  states
early next year, according to the statement.  “This is unambiguously an excellent result and clearly a
significant step in Australia’s shale gas future,” James Baulderstone, the Santos vice president for eastern Australia,
told analysts today on a conference call. “More work is
required to prove a substantial commercial shale play.”  Santos last year projected that commercial shale gas
production wouldn’t begin until 2015, Baulderstone said.  Net income fell to A$262 million ($274 million) in the six
months ended June 30, from A$504 million a year ago, Santos
said. That compares with the A$269 million median estimate of
five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. Earnings in 2011 were
boosted by a A$246 million one-time gain from asset sales.  Profit, excluding one-time items, rose 20 percent to A$283
million on higher gas and liquids prices. RBS expected
underlying profit of A$298 million, Kin said.  Santos also maintained its annual production forecast at 51
million barrels to 55 million barrels of oil equivalent.  The company in June increased its capital spending estimate
for the Gladstone project by 16 percent on plans to drill an
additional 300 wells. Santos’s partners in Gladstone are  Total
SA (FP) , Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and  Korea Gas Corp. (036460)   The company expects a cost of A$45 million to A$65 million
in the year ending in June 2013 because of the government’s
price on  carbon emissions . Australia on July 1 started charging
polluters a price of A$23 a metric ton for their emissions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  