-- Securitization Lobby Seeks CFTC Registration Rule Exemption
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-08-17T18:31:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/securitization-lobby-seeks-exemption-from-cftc-registration-rule.html
U.S. regulators should exempt
securitization vehicles from Dodd-Frank Act rules slated to take
effect this year to avoid hampering the market for asset-backed
securities, according to an industry lobby group.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  rules may lead
securitization vehicles to register as so-called commodity pools
because they often use  interest-rate swaps  to hedge risks,  Tom Deutsch , executive director of the  American Securitization Forum 
said today in a letter to the agency. That shift may restrict
bank investments because of limits under Dodd-Frank’s Volcker
rule, he said.  “Bank sponsors of securitizations may be forced to
terminate their relationship with and/or investment in
securitization vehicles that allow them to provide hundreds of
billions of dollars of consumer financing, with serious adverse
effects for the economy as a whole,” Deutsch wrote.  The securitization group, which represents  Bank of America 
Corp. and  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  among  hundreds of
investors , issuers and trustees, wants an exclusion this year
before the rules take effect. The CFTC and the Securities and
Exchange Commission are required by Dodd-Frank to complete
regulations reducing risk and increasing transparency in the
swaps market after unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008
credit crisis.  The Volcker rule, named for former Federal Reserve Chairman
 Paul Volcker , was included in the regulatory overhaul to
restrict banks’ proprietary trading and investment in private
equity and hedge funds. The CFTC and other regulators are
working to complete the measure after missing the July 21
deadline for implementation.  “Two years later we’re just figuring out that the Volcker
rule ABS exemption may be trumped by a backdoor definition of
ABS as a commodity pool,” Deutsch said today in a telephone
interview.  Steve Adamske , the CFTC’s spokesman, declined to comment on
the group’s letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Mott at 
 gmott1@bloomberg.net  