-- Soho China Is Turning to Rental to Reverse 65% Profit Drop
-- B y   S u s a n   L i   a n d   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-08-17T02:26:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/soho-china-is-turning-to-rental-to-reverse-65-profit-drop-1-.html
Soho China Ltd. (410) , the Beijing-based
commercial developer whose  profit  dropped 65 percent, said it
will hold on to more of its properties as office rents in
Beijing and  Shanghai  rise.  Investment properties will bring in almost 4 billion  yuan 
($628 million) of annual rental income in three years, Zhang Xin,
chief executive officer of the Hong Kong-listed company, which
has traditionally sold most of its projects, said yesterday in a
Bloomberg TV interview. Soho  China  took in 76 million yuan in
 rental income  in the first half, while income from sales of
properties was 1.15 billion yuan.  “For build and hold, there will not be many surprises
because you’re holding the buildings for lease,” Zhang said.
“The leasing market is more stable than the sales market. When
we do build and sell, the  capital market  doesn’t always
understand.”  Beijing’s average prime-office rent rose 4.6 percent in the
second quarter from three months earlier, with an average yield
of 7.4 percent, while in Shanghai it gained 2.1 percent in the
period, with a yield of 6.1 percent, according to property
broker Knight Frank LLP. Hong Kong, the world’s costliest place
to rent  office space , has an average yield of 3.3 percent, the
broker said.  China has been expanding efforts to control the  property
market  and sent teams to provinces to check on the
implementation of curbs that include restrictions on the number
of properties people can buy in about 40 cities and higher down-
payment requirements.  Holding Properties  Shares of Soho China fell 5.3 percent to HK$5.41 as of 9:53
a.m. Hong Kong time, heading for their biggest decline since Dec.
19. The stock yesterday fell 3.1 percent after earnings were
announced. Today’s loss cuts the gain this year to 4.5 percent,
compared with the 8.8 percent advance in the benchmark  Hang Seng
Index. (HSI)   Soho China, the largest developer in Beijing’s central
business district, is making a transition to “strategically
hold properties” from a “traditional sales model,” the
company said in a statement yesterday. It will hold a total of
1.5 million square meter (16 million square feet) of office
space in Beijing and Shanghai, Zhang said.  First-half net income fell to 613 million yuan from 1.75
billion yuan after Soho China booked fewer sales of its
commercial properties.  “I can say with nearly 100 percent confidence that by the
end of the year the earnings will be strong,” Zhang said,
adding that she expects a “strong” second half as the
developer will complete more pre-sold projects.  Share Buyback  At yesterday’s closing price, Soho China has a  price-to-
book  ratio of 1.12, while  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the nation’s biggest
developer, has a multiple of 1.72. Soho China said in June it
plans to buy back as much as $200 million worth of its shares.  “At today’s share price we have every intention to buy
back” the company’s shares, Zhang said. “We certainly think
the shares are very undervalued.”  China sent eight teams to 16 provinces last month to check
on the implementation of its property curbs, and the nationwide
check is aimed at “firmly” restraining property speculation
and consolidating results of the curbs, the central government
said on its website on July 25. Premier  Wen Jiabao  has said the
government will maintain the curbs it began introducing in April
2010 to ensure housing remains affordable.  “The government still has a lot of power to stimulate and
relax the credit,” said Zhang. “If they allow the market to
move on, there’s still quite a bit of pent up demand out there
and its being artificially pushed down.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kelvin Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
6441 or  kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  