-- St. Jude Told by U.S. to Study Durata Heart Wire Safety
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-08-17T21:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/st-jude-told-by-u-s-to-study-durata-heart-wire-safety.html
St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ)  has been told
by U.S. regulators to conduct imaging studies on its Durata
leads, wires that connect life-saving defibrillators to the
heart, to ensure the safety of the devices.  St. Jude has post-marketing studies under way for Durata, a
new version of the Riata leads the company stopped selling in
2010 and recalled last year because the wires can break out of
their insulation. The  Food and Drug Administration  is now asking
for imaging tests on about 500 patients with Durata leads to see
whether there are early signs of failure with the insulation,
according to a letter from the agency to the  St. Paul ,
Minnesota-based company obtained by Bloomberg News.  Defibrillators and the leads used to connect them to the
heart made up almost one-third of St. Jude’s $5.6 billion in
2011  sales . The market has been contracting for the past several
years on concern about safety and overuse of the devices.  “That the FDA is requiring an additional study of Durata,
despite St. Jude’s current and extensive registry data, again
shows the FDA’s level of unease with the situation,” said Raj Denhoy, an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in New York, in a note to
clients. “Despite the continued presentation by St. Jude of
their internal data showing the Durata is safe, the FDA remains
unconvinced. Moreover it is sure to raise questions in
clinicians who chose to continue to implant Durata.”  Insulation Faults  The agency is concerned about insulation breaches, known as
externalization, as well as abrasions under the shock coil that
can lead to electrical malfunction and death, according to the
FDA’s letter. The studies, which should follow patients for at
least three years, will help determine whether Durata is showing
signs of the failures that led the company to pull Riata off the
market before symptoms developed in patients.  Imaging studies “should be conducted for every patient at
enrollment and every six months through three years after the
initial evaluation or until evidence of lead compromise,” the
agency said in its letter.  St. Jude is reviewing the FDA’s request and comparing it
with information already being gathered in a Durata registry,
Amy Jo Meyer, a company spokeswoman, said in a telephone
interview. The analysis will determine what additional data the
company will collect or whether new studies are needed, she
said.  The agency yesterday said that all patients with Riata
leads should get X-rays or other imaging tests to detect
potential defects. Although they haven’t been sold in the U.S.
for more than 18 months, about 79,000 of the wires are still
implanted in American patients, according to the company.  Similar imaging studies involving about 500 patients should
also be conducted on Riata and on two older leads, the QuickSite
and QuickFlex, that St. Jude stopped selling in April after
reports of wires protruding from the insulation.  St. Jude gained 1.6 percent to $37.45 at the close in  New
York . The shares have  declined  13 percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  