-- States Split on Immigrant Licenses as U.S. Lets Them Work
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-08-17T02:29:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/states-split-on-immigrant-licenses-as-u-s-lets-them-work.html
As a high school student in Phoenix,
Carla Chavarria said she felt left out when her classmates
turned 16 and started getting driver’s licenses.  An undocumented immigrant brought to the U.S. at age 7,
Chavarria, now 19, thought her wait was nearly over, thanks to a
new federal program offering young immigrants work permits
without fear of being deported.  Then came an executive order from  Arizona  Governor Jan Brewer instructing state agencies to deny driver’s licenses and
any other state benefits to those qualifying for the Obama
administration program.  “I was almost there,” said Chavarria, who runs her own
advertising and graphics-design business, after a protest
against Brewer at the state capitol yesterday. “They don’t let
us have a victory.”  States are split in their response to the immigration
policy that took effect Aug. 15. California and  Michigan  say the
work permits will allow recipients to get licenses; states
including  New York  and  Georgia  are evaluating which way to go.  Thousands of immigrants lined up seeking information in
cities throughout the country this week. The federal program is
open to undocumented immigrants who were brought to the U.S.
before age 16, have been in the country at least five years and
graduate from high school or serve in the military, among other
criteria.  1.7 Million Possible  As many as 1.7 million people age 30 and under may qualify
for the permits, according to estimates from the  Pew Hispanic
Center . The report said that 950,000 people would be eligible
immediately and another 770,000 people in the future as they
meet the criteria set by the president.  President  Barack Obama ’s policy directive bypassed
Congress, where legislation known as the Dream Act, designed to
give a path to legal status for younger illegal immigrants, has
been stalled. It also pushed the issue back into the campaign
between Obama and presumptive Republican nominee  Mitt Romney ,
who has opposed the measure. Romney has said he would “put in
place my own long-term solution.”  Asked whether the new policy may leave some immigrants in
limbo, White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said yes. Obama
“fought hard for the Dream Act and believes Congress ought to
pass it,” he said.  Brewer, a Republican whose approval of a strict state
immigration law in 2010 propelled her to national prominence on
border issues, said federal documents issued under the new
program won’t prove lawful status. Permitting state
identification or benefits to recipients would “have
significant and lasting impacts on the Arizona budget.”  Defending Law  The governor’s spokesman, Matthew Benson, said Brewer is
seeking to defend her state and existing law.  “The governor can’t undo what the president has done, but
she can take a stand for state law,” Benson said. “By no
definition are these individuals lawfully present or lawfully
authorized to be in the  United States . All they have received is
a deferral from being prosecuted or deported.”  The  American Civil Liberties Union  of Arizona is evaluating
its legal options, said Executive Director Alessandra Soler in a
telephone interview. Arizona allows driver’s licenses for others
with similar federal authorization to be in the U.S., such as
those granted political asylum, she said.  “The definitive action on this will be decided in a
courtroom,” state Senate Democratic Leader David Schapira said
at a press briefing on the Arizona capitol lawn.  Three states --  Illinois ,  New Mexico  and  Washington  --don’t
require residents to prove they are citizens or in the U.S.
legally to get a driver’s license, said Ian Grossman, a
spokesman for the  American Association  of Motor Vehicle
Administrators in Arlington, Virginia.  Differing Interpretations  Every other state does, and those states may have different
interpretations about whether deferred deportation under the
president’s order counts, Grossman said.  “The driver’s license is still a state document, so each
state will have to make that determination individually,”
Grossman said.  Oklahoma City attorney Doug Stump, president-elect of the
Washington-based American Immigration Lawyers Association, said
immigrants granted deferred action with a work permit should be
considered legal residents for the purposes of getting a
driver’s license.  “It’s certainly troubling to think that Governor Brewer
would want to deprive those individuals from lawfully driving in
her state,” Stump said in a telephone interview.  College Impact  Driver’s licenses aren’t the only thing at stake for young
immigrants. By the nature of the criteria, many who qualify
under the new policy will be high-school graduates who may be
looking toward college. In Florida, they’ll still have to pay
out-of-state tuition, said Diane McCain, a spokeswoman for the
state university system.  That rate is two-and-half-times higher than those
considered state residents pay at the University of  Central
Florida , the state’s largest public university by enrollment.  Benson, Brewer’s spokesman, said Arizona law prohibits in-
state tuition for undocumented immigrants, including those in
this program.  The Maricopa Community College District in Arizona has
allowed those with federal work permits to qualify for in-state
tuition in the past, said Tom Gariepy, a spokesman for the 10-
college system. The district is studying the issue in light of
Brewer’s order, he said.  Taking Action  The federal policy change has created a flurry of action in
immigrant communities. In Florida, a phone bank set up to answer
questions about the program received 500 calls in two hours,
said Natalia Jaramillo, spokeswoman for the Miami-based  Florida 
Immigration Coalition. In  Chicago , thousands of people showed up
at Navy Pier to meet with volunteer lawyers.  In Atlanta, Humberto Fragosa, 22, and his brothers, Eduardo
and Jose, were among dozens of young illegal immigrants who
crowded into the law offices of Kuck Immigration Partners LLC,
applying for the permits.  Humberto said he was 9 when he came to the U.S. with his
mother; his brothers were 6 and 3. While he looks forward to the
possibility of getting a driver’s license, the new work status
may help him get a scholarship at the state university he’s
attending now, Fragosa said.  “It would bring such a sense of freedom,” he said. “I’m
afraid of driving now. And I’m always afraid the state is going
to find out I’m in school.”  Stephanie Mayfield, spokeswoman for Georgia Governor Nathan Deal, said he is studying the issue.  Teaching Dream  New York City resident Eduardo Resendez, a 22-year-old
undocumented immigrant originally from  Mexico  City, is already
working on his bachelor’s degree in music from the  City
University  of New York, where he’s eligible for in-state
tuition. Getting a work permit under the new federal rules would
mean he could fulfill his dream of being a high-school music
teacher, he said.  “Before this, I knew I wouldn’t be able to teach in the
U.S., so my plan was to go back to Mexico when I graduated,”
Resendez said. “Now, that plan has changed. I’ll be able to
stay with my family. That’s one of the greatest things that will
happen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  