-- Strategic to Buy Manhattan Essex House Hotel for $362.3 Million
-- B y   N o a h   R a y m a n
-- 2012-08-17T16:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/strategic-to-buy-manhattan-essex-house-hotel-for-362-3-million.html
Strategic Hotels & Resorts Inc. (BEE) 
agreed to buy the Jumeirah Essex House, an 80-year-old hotel on
Manhattan’s Central Park South, for $362.3 million.  Marriott International Inc. (MAR)  will manage the property, which
will be rebranded as JW Marriott Essex House New York, Strategic
said today in a statement. The seller is Dubai Investment Group
LLC, the real estate and asset-management arm of Dubai Group
LLC, which is controlled by the emirate’s ruler.  The deal works out to about $685,000 per unit for the 509
hotel rooms and nine condominiums, according to Strategic, a
Chicago-based real estate investment trust that focuses on
luxury hotels and resorts. The company plans to spend about
$18.3 million on renovations, new signs and marketing efforts.  The combination of “location, Marriott’s outstanding
distribution and world-class  customer service , and our
successful long-standing relationship with the Marriott brands,
clearly positions the Essex House for success,”  Laurence Geller , Strategic’s president and chief executive officer, said
in the statement.  New York City hotels had an occupancy rate of 76 percent
this year through April, the third-best among the top 25 U.S.
markets, behind Miami and Oahu,  Hawaii , according to Smith
Travel Research Inc., based in Hendersonville,  Tennessee .  Red Neon  Essex House, known for the red neon sign bearing its name
atop the 40-story tower, opened in 1931. Dubai Investment bought
the property in 2005 for $440 million and spent $90 million more
on renovations, according to Real Capital Analytics Inc., a New
York-based research firm.  Strategic’s purchase will be funded with cash and a $190
million mortgage from Bank of America Corp., the lodging company
said. Marriott agreed to manage the hotel for 50 years and to
guarantee as much as $21.5 million of hotel net operating income
annually for eight years, according to the statement. The deal
is expected to be completed by Sept. 7.  “We believe there is substantial upside for this hotel as
a JW Marriott brand,” Marriott President and CEO Arne Sorenson
said in the statement. It will be the first JW Marriott property
in  New York , he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Rayman in New York at 
 nrayman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  