-- Swaps Between Company Affiliates Exempted Under CFTC Proposal
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-08-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/swaps-between-company-affiliates-exempted-under-cftc-proposal.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission proposed exempting trades between units of the same
company from Dodd-Frank Act clearinghouse rules designed to
limit risk in the $648 trillion swaps market.  In a 3-2 private vote, CFTC commissioners proposed freeing
so-called interaffiliate trades from requirements that swaps be
guaranteed at central clearinghouses that protect buyers and
sellers against defaults. The proposal would require collateral
to be exchanged between affiliates to reduce trade risks.  “Though transactions between affiliates pose risk, much of
the risk relates to their affiliates rather than external
parties,” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in a statement
yesterday.  Lobby groups representing banks such as  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  have urged the
CFTC to exempt the trades from Dodd-Frank rules enacted in
response to the 2008 credit crisis.  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) 
and a coalition of end-users -- commercial and manufacturing
firms that use swaps to hedge risk -- also sought exemption.  “The devil is in the details here because there are lots
of potential risks in an overly broad exemption for
interaffiliate swaps,” Marcus Stanley, policy director for
Americans for Financial Reform, a coalition including the AFL-
CIO labor federation, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  The proposal, which will be open to public comment before
the agency considers a final vote, would require centralized
risk management and reporting requirements for the trades. The
rule would also compel affiliates of financial entities to
exchange so-called variation margin to limit risk.  “This process prevents uncollateralized exposures from
accumulating over time and thereby reduces the size of any loss
resulting from a default,” the agency said in the rule.  Republican commissioners Jill E. Sommers and  Scott O’Malia 
opposed the measure, citing the variation margin requirement.  “It is not clear that this requirement will do anything
other than create administrative burdens and operational risk
while unnecessarily tying up capital that could otherwise be
used for investment,” Sommers and O’Malia said in a dissent.  The proposal also includes an exception from the margin
requirement for affiliates that are entirely commonly owned and
commonly guaranteed.  “As part of the consideration of this rule proposal, it
will be necessary for financial-entity affiliates to consider
other regulatory regimes that would apply,”  Andrew P. Cross ,
partner at law firm  Reed Smith LLP , said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “While the market will be digesting this
rule, at an initial level this seems like the type of issue that
could cause the exception to have limited usefulness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Mott at 
 gmott1@bloomberg.net  