-- Swiss Bank Lawyers, Jackson Lewis, Perkins Coie: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-08-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/swiss-bank-lawyers-jackson-lewis-perkins-coie-business-of-law.html
Swiss banks are turning over
thousands of employee names to U.S. authorities as they seek
leniency for their alleged role in helping American clients
evade taxes, according to lawyers representing banking staff.  At least five banks supplied e-mails and telephone records
containing as many as 10,000 names to the U.S. Justice
Department, according to estimates by Douglas Hornung, a Geneva-
based lawyer representing 40 current and former employees of
HSBC Holdings Plc’s Swiss unit,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and
 Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  The data handover is illegal, said Alec
Reymond, a former president of the Geneva Bar Association, who
is representing two Credit Suisse staff.  “The banks are burning their own people to try and cut
deals with the DoJ,” said Hornung. “This violation of personal
privacy is unprecedented in the Swiss banking industry.”  Swiss banks want to settle a U.S. tax-evasion probe after
U.S. prosecutors indicted Wegelin & Co. on Feb. 2 for allegedly
helping customers hide money from the  Internal Revenue Service .
Credit Suisse, HSBC and Julius Baer, which have said they expect
to pay fines to resolve the tax matter, are handing over data to
mollify the U.S., according to Hornung.  Credit Suisse said the Swiss government authorized the
delivery of staff names and that the “large majority” of
employees have nothing to fear.  Julius Baer  and Zuercher
Kantonalbank also said they received authorization. HSBC said it
has delivered documents and is cooperating with the U.S.  Swiss banks, the biggest managers of offshore wealth, have
seen secrecy erode since  UBS AG (UBSN)  admitted in 2009 to fostering
tax evasion and paid a fine of $780 million to avoid
prosecution. Switzerland’s largest wealth manager later turned
over data on about 4,700 accounts to the IRS.  While Swiss companies are usually prohibited from sending
evidence to assist foreign legal proceedings, the country’s
governing Federal Council authorized an exemption in April at
the request of an undisclosed number of banks.  “The Federal Council had no right to grant permission for
banks to send any information to a foreign authority,” said
Marcel Niggli, a professor of law at the University of Fribourg.
“The companies know the risk of penalties in Switzerland is
insignificant compared with the business risk in the U.S. It’s a
cold-blooded action by the banks.”  Switzerland is in talks to end a Justice Department
investigation of 11 Swiss financial firms, including Credit
Suisse, Julius Baer and HSBC’s Geneva-based wealth business, as
part of a U.S. probe of offshore  tax evasion .  For more, click here.  Miami Options Exchange Moves Closer to Becoming 11th U.S. Venue  The Miami  International Securities Exchange ’s planned U.S.
options venue will compete for orders by giving priority to
market makers that meet certain quoting requirements, according
to its application to regulators.  MIAX, as the proposed exchange is called, may become the
11th U.S. venue to trade equity options if the Securities and
Exchange Commission approves its application  published  Aug. 15.
The exchange has been planned for several years and its filing,
submitted to the SEC in April, provides the first detailed look
into its trading plans and rules. The SEC is seeking comment on
the exchange as it considers approval.  The exchange doesn’t yet have a president and chief
executive officer, according to its parent company, Princeton,
New Jersey-based Miami International Holdings Inc. Shelly Brown,
senior vice president for strategic planning and operations,
declined to comment on the exchange’s application.  The company’s executive chairman is  Thomas P. Gallagher , a
founding partner at Princeton-based  law firm  Gallagher, Briody &
Butler, which helps companies raise money. Douglas M. Schafer is
the chief information officer, Barbara Comly is general counsel
and Paul Warner is the chief financial officer. The chief
regulatory officer is Edward Deitzel.  The surge in electronic trading since 2000 has spurred more
competition among older exchanges and startups seeking to draw
trades through different pricing and rules for matching orders.
MIAX will compete for volume in the growing options market with
10 exchanges, including three run by Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and
two each from NYSE Euronext and CBOE Holdings Inc. in  Chicago .  The parent company will contribute at least $2 million to
the exchange before it begins operating and provide enough
capital for it to meet its regulatory and operational
requirements, MIAX’s  application  said. Information about the
company’s financing wasn’t immediately available.  For more, click here.  Bankruptcy  Dewey to Have Net Recoveries of $2 Million a Week  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, the defunct law firm, was given an
extension until Sept. 30 of the right to use cash representing
collateral for secured lenders’ claims.  The renewed right to use so-called cash collateral, granted
Aug. 15 by the  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in New York, contains a
projection showing that Dewey expects to bring in $21.7 million
between Aug. 16 and Sept. 30.  Over the same period, expenses are projected to total $10.6
million, allowing the lenders to be paid about $11 million,
because cash-use procedures allow the lenders to draw down the
excess when cash rises above $10 million.  Dewey has two official committees, one for unsecured
creditors and the other for former partners. The firm once had
1,300 lawyers before liquidation began under Chapter 11 in May.
There was secured debt of about $225 million and accounts
receivable of $217.4 million at the outset of bankruptcy, the
firm said. The petition listed assets of $193 million and
liabilities of $245.4 million as of April 30.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Firm News  Jackson Lewis Names Managing Partner of Seattle Office  Jackson Lewis LLP’s Bryan P. O’Connor has assumed the role
of Seattle office managing partner, succeeding Wayne W. Hansen.
Hansen, who has served in the role since the Seattle office
opened in 1998, will stay on as partner and continue to
represent employers in all phases of traditional labor law
negotiations.  O’Connor has experience advising and representing employers
in traditional labor law matters across numerous industries,
including construction, manufacturing, retail, health care,
utility, food distribution, and government-related services. His
practice also includes employment law advice and litigation,
including both state and federal claims and individual and class
action suits, the firm said.  Jackson Lewis has over 700 attorneys practicing in 49
locations nationwide.  Moves  Perkins Coie Hires Chicago Corporate Partner from K&L Gates  Perkins Coie  LLP hired Randy A. Bridgeman in the Chicago
office as a partner in the corporate governance and transactions
practice. He was most recently a partner at K&L Gates LLP, where
he was head of the corporate group for the Chicago office, the
firm said.  Bridgeman serves as a legal advisor to businesses across a
range of industries, coordinating all the client’s legal
matters, including strategic transactions, corporate governance,
commercial contracts, litigation, finance, employee benefits,
intellectual property,  government regulation , estate planning
and real estate.  Bridgeman is the 11th partner to join Perkins Coie’s
Chicago office this year. Perkins Coie’s business practice has
224 attorneys. The firm has more than 850 lawyers in 19 offices
across the U.S. and Asia.  Jones Day Hires Litigation Partner in Pittsburgh  Litigator Kimberly Brown joined  Jones Day  as a partner in
the Pittsburgh office. Formerly a partner with Thorp Reed &
Armstrong LLP, she is a member of the business and tort
litigation practice focusing on commercial and insurance
litigation and the defense of product liability and toxic tort
actions, the firm said.  Brown also teaches litigation strategy and planning at the
 University of Pittsburgh  School of Law, where she is an adjunct
professor.  Jones Day has more than 2,400 lawyers in 35 offices world-
wide.  Brown Rudnick Hires Chief Government Lawyer in Boston  Brown Rudnick LLP hired Jed M. Nosal, formerly chief of the
business and labor bureau in the office of Massachusetts
Attorney General  Martha Coakley , in the firm’s Boston office as
counsel in the government law and strategies and energy
utilities and environmental groups.  At the Attorney General’s office, Nosal was responsible for
overseeing a number of divisions, including the business,
technology and economic development; energy and
telecommunications; fair labor; medicaid fraud; and non-profit
organizations/public charities. He advised Coakley on carrying
out her statutory duties and oversight of these divisions, and
oversaw related civil and criminal investigations and litigation
on behalf of the state.  He previously served as head of the energy and
telecommunications division, serving as Coakley’s chief advisor
on energy and telecommunications matters. His previous positions
have also included general counsel to the Massachusetts
Department of Telecommunications and Energy, and deputy
director/chief of staff for the Massachusetts Office of Consumer
Affairs and Business Regulation.  Brown Rudnick  has more than 200 lawyers with 7 offices in
the U.S., U.K. and Ireland.  Litigation  Apple May Owe Samsung $422 Million in Damages, Witnesses Say  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  would owe as much as $421.8 million in royalties
if found to infringe five  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  patents for
mobile devices, two witnesses for the South Korean company
testified.  One damages expert,  Vincent O’Brien  of OSKR LLC, told the
jury yesterday in the intellectual property trial between Apple
and Samsung in federal court in  San Jose , California, that he
calculated royalties of $22.8 million based on claims that the
iPhone maker infringed three of Samsung’s feature patents.  A second expert,  University of California , Berkeley
business school professor David Teece, testified that damages
for Apple’s infringement of two other Samsung patents should be
in the range of $290 million to $399 million, based on royalty
rates of 2 percent to 2.75 percent.  Joe Mueller, a partner at  Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and
Dorr LLP  who is representing Apple, showed Teece a July 25,
2011, letter from Samsung to Apple proposing Apple pay a 2.4
percent royalty rate to license any of 86 patents.  Mueller got Teece to agree he had “no idea” how Samsung
arrived at the rate. Samsung had never published the rate, and
you have “no evidence that Samsung has ever asked any other
company for such a rate,” Mueller said.  Apple said in a pretrial filing that the 2.4 percent rate
is “unfair, unreasonable, and discriminatory.”  Apple sued Samsung in April 2011, accusing it of copying
patented designs for mobile devices, and Suwon, South Korea-
based Samsung countersued. The case is the first to go before a
federal jury in a battle being waged on four continents for
dominance in a smartphone market valued by Bloomberg Industries
at $219.1 billion.  Samsung told the judge yesterday it’s resting its case. The
trial is now in its third week and the jury hasn’t yet decided
the merits of either company’s infringement claims.  Samsung said in its filing that long before Apple announced
the release of any of its products using Samsung’s technology,
Samsung offered a “fair and reasonable” royalty rate on its
patents to “virtually every major player in the mobile phone
industry,” including Apple.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, claims it is owed
at least $2.5 billion in damages and is also seeking to make
permanent a preliminary ban it won on U.S. sales of a Samsung
tablet, and extend the ban to Samsung smartphones.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 