-- U.S. Consumer Sentiment Unexpectedly Rose in August
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-08-17T14:54:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/u-s-consumer-sentiment-unexpectedly-rose-in-august.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
unexpectedly improved in August, boosting the prospect of
stronger household spending this quarter.  The Thomson Reuters/University of  Michigan  preliminary
August index of consumer  sentiment  increased to 73.6, the
highest level since May, from 72.3 the prior month. The gauge
was projected to be little changed at 72.2, according to the
median forecast of 72 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  After two months of sliding sentiment, August’s advance
indicates consumers may be feeling the benefits of growing
payrolls. Rising confidence raises the odds households can
sustain July’s pickup in retail sales, which set the pace for
stronger growth in the third quarter.  “People have said the worst scenario is not going to
happen,” said  John Silvia , chief economist at  Wells Fargo
Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . Confidence “seems
to be stabilizing at a fairly low level, suggesting to me that
consumer spending is going to continue. I don’t see a huge pick-
up in growth.”  Another report, the index of U.S. leading economic
indicators, climbed more than forecast in July, a sign of
sustained expansion. The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook
for the next three to six months increased 0.4 percent after a
revised 0.4 percent drop in June, the New York-based group said
today. Economists projected the gauge would rise by 0.2 percent.  Yield Falls  Stocks were little changed, with the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index at 1,415.39 at 10:31 a.m. in  New York . The yield on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell to 1.807 percent from 1.84
percent late yesterday.  Estimates in the  consumer confidence  survey ranged from 69
to 75. The index averaged 64.2 during the last recession and 89
in the five years before the 18-month economic slump that ended
in June 2009.  Michigan’s sentiment reading for August contrasts with the
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, which slumped last week to the
lowest level since January.  The Michigan survey’s index of  current conditions , which
reflects Americans’ perceptions of their financial situation and
whether they consider it a good time to buy big-ticket items
like cars, improved to 87.6 from 82.7 the prior month. It is the
highest number since January 2008.  The index of  consumer expectations  six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of  consumer spending ,
fell to 64.5, an eight-month low, from 65.6 in July.  More Shopping  Rising confidence could help induce more households to head
to shops and malls and restaurants, stoking the expansion after
they gave it less support last quarter. Consumer spending, about
70 percent of the economy, grew at a 1.5 percent annual rate
from April to June, down from a 2.4 percent pace in the previous
three months, according to Commerce Department data.  Retail sales advanced 0.8 percent in July, the biggest
increase since February and the first in four months, easing
some concern that elevated unemployment will cause households to
retrench.  Supporting the growth in demand, payrolls increased by
163,000 in July, the most in five months, Labor Department
figures show. The jobless rate, nonetheless, rose to 8.3
percent, a five-month high.  “Unemployment rates have remained around 8 percent, as we
all know, for the past two quarters, and given all of this in
the current economic situation, our perspective is we would need
to see more stable growth signals before expecting U.S. consumer
confidence levels to show a sustained increase,”  Ajay Banga ,
president and chief executive officer of  Mastercard Inc. (MA) , said
during an Aug. 1 earnings call.  Steady Gains  Gas prices  could also hamper steady gains in confidence.
The average price of a gallon of regular gasoline rose to $3.72
on Aug. 16 after sliding to $3.33 in early July, the lowest in
six months, according to AAA, the nation’s largest auto club.  Consumers in today’s confidence report said they expect an
inflation rate of 3.6 percent over the next  12 months , compared
with 3 percent in the prior survey. Over the next five years,
Americans expected a 3 percent rate of inflation, compared with
a previously reported 2.7 percent in the previous report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  