-- UVA Starts Board Repair After President Ouster Crisis
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-08-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/uva-starts-board-repair-after-president-ouster-crisis.html
The  University of Virginia ’s board
is exploring how to improve its approach to governance in the
aftermath of the June crisis that saw President  Teresa Sullivan 
reinstated less than three weeks after her forced resignation.  The Board of Visitors, headed by Rector Helen Dragas,
established a committee on governance and engagement and a
separate one on strategic planning, the university said in a
 statement  yesterday.  Addressing one of the issues that Dragas raised in her
effort to fire the president, Sullivan told the board she would
bring a plan for faculty salaries to the group in September. She
also said she would start a “Big Data” initiative for research
and teaching in the analysis, security and assembly of large
quantities of information.  At a retreat in Richmond that ended yesterday, the board
discussed how to improve communication among its members and
with Sullivan, and how to develop a strategic plan for the
college. While calls for Dragas to resign persist, the embattled
rector said she won’t step down and believes that the college,
founded in 1819 by  Thomas Jefferson  in Charlottesville, stands
ready to take on challenges facing all of higher education.  “All eyes are on us now as we address these issues so
actively,” Dragas said in a telephone interview after the
meeting ended. “Our entire university community is collectively
engaged.”  Strategic Planning  The strategic planning process will help the school address
urgent issues that face UVA and many other colleges, such as how
to cope with dwindling funds and better implement technology in
education, Dragas said in the interview. Stagnant salaries have
made it more difficult for the university to recruit and retain
top faculty, she said in a June 21 letter to the university
community.  “The  board  looks forward to receiving President Sullivan’s
plan for addressing faculty salary issues,” Dragas said in the
interview. “It’s wonderful that she’s looking to proactively
address it.”  The university recently released hundreds of e-mails in
which alumni called for Dragas to resign from the board because
of her efforts to unseat Sullivan. Dragas declined to discuss
those actions. When asked whether the board supported her at the
retreat, Dragas said that they had, and that she has no plans to
resign.  “I really, truly believe the issues are too important and
I want to be part of the solution,” she said. “It’s always
been my desire to contribute to the well-being of the
university.”  Campus Roiled  Sullivan was forced to resign June 10, and was reinstated
by the board June 26 after protests roiled the campus. In
explaining the ouster, Dragas cited a number of institutional
challenges that had to be met, such as decreased educational
funds, the rise of online education and competition for faculty
and student applicants.  The crisis at UVA shined a bright light on the financial,
academic and administrative issues that face even the top
echelons of U.S. colleges, said  Anne Neal , president of the
American Council of Trustees and Alumni in  Washington .  “They’ve raised some serious questions over there about
the directions of education and the expenditure of funds in that
regard,” she said in a telephone interview. “They’ve set a
very good standard in engaging these important issues.”  Educational Ills  The danger is that Sullivan’s failed ouster will obscure or
halt the process of trying to deal with the educational ills the
board sought to address, Neal said. Many other schools aren’t
paying attention to the the funding and educational issues the
UVA board brought forth, she said.  “The effort to raise questions of accountability was
commendable,” she said. “The process was deplorable.”  Boards are increasingly under pressure to show that their
members are engaged and accountable for all the major aspects of
their institutions, said Terry MacTaggart, a consultant with the
Washington-based  Association of Governing Boards of Universities
and Colleges . A university board member’s most basic
responsibility lies in protecting the reputation and integrity
of a school, MacTaggart said in a presentation at the Richmond
retreat.  “What do you get when that doesn’t happen?” he said. “I
have two words for you:  Penn State .”  Penn State  The Pennsylvania State University crisis, in which ex-
football assistant coach Jerry Sandusky was convicted of
criminal counts connected to child sex abuse over 15 years,
occurred when the board failed to oversee all the important
facets of the university, MacTaggart said in an interview. While
two former top university officials face criminal charges, Penn
State’s accreditation is also under review.  The Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission
on Colleges is investigating the attempted ouster of Sullivan at
UVA. Such threats to accreditation -- key to universities’
eligibility for government funds -- and reputation because of
non-academic issues have put boards on notice, MacTaggart said.  “If there’s anything good to come out of this, it’s that
it’s on the minds of every board and they’re asking themselves
how to make sure it never happens again,” he said.  Communication between the board, the administration and the
faculty appears to have been lacking in the run-up to Sullivan’s
ouster, said  George Cohen , a UVA law professor and chairman of
the  faculty senate . While Dragas noted deficiencies in the
school’s use of online education, faculty have since produced
dozens of examples of the use and experimentation with
technology in teaching, he said.  Don’t Assume  “You shouldn’t assume that the things that we cover in
board meetings are the only things we’re thinking about,”
Sullivan said in the meeting. “It’s impossible for us to convey
to you everything we’re thinking about at any one time.”  Cohen said that members of the board’s education policy
committee have already asked to speak with him further about
teaching issues at the school, which he hadn’t heard of
happening before. While the board’s movement toward more
transparency and collaboration appears positive, it remains to
be seen whether it will take root, he said.  “You could say that these are things that we should have
been doing all along,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  