-- Venezuelan Economy Grew 5.4% on Spending Ahead of Elections
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-08-17T19:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/venezuelan-economy-grew-5-4-on-spending-ahead-of-elections-2-.html
Venezuela  posted economic growth in
excess of 5 percent for a second quarter in the three months
through June as oil revenue allowed President  Hugo Chavez  to
boost spending on social programs ahead of October elections.  Gross domestic product expanded 5.4 percent from a year
earlier, central bank President Nelson Merentes said today in a
televised news conference, below the 6.1 percent median  estimate 
of eight economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The central bank
revised growth in the first quarter to 5.8 percent from 5.6
percent.  Chavez increased spending 34 percent in the first half of
2012 from a year ago, fueling private consumption, as he seeks
to extend his 13 years in power with another six-year term. The
self-declared socialist is promoting social programs for the
elderly and children in extreme poverty as well as a pledge to
eradicate a 3 million-home deficit as cornerstones of his re-
election bid in October.  “The expansion of the economy is clearly driven by an
expansion in  government spending ,” said  Francisco Rodriguez , an
economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  New York .
“There’s very strong evidence that the economy’s growth rate
has an impact on the government party’s electoral performance,
especially on the chances of re-election when it’s an
incumbent.”  The  construction industry , buoyed by government-funded low-
income housing projects, expanded a year-on-year 17.6 percent in
the second quarter, the bank said. The oil sector expanded 1
percent and the non-oil industry 5.7 percent, while private
consumption rose 6.8 percent.  Oil Revenue  Net income for  Petroleos de Venezuela SA , the state oil
company that accounts for 95 percent of exports, surged 42
percent last year to $4.5 billion as the average price for the
country’s crude oil rose to $101.06 a barrel, the highest level
for any year on record.  The price  averaged $103.47  a barrel in the second quarter,
according to preliminary figures from the Oil Ministry.  Chavez’s spending spree has been boosted by development
loans of at least $12.5 billion in the past year from Chinese
banks. With at least $38.5 billion in loans since 2009,
Venezuela has become the biggest recipient of Chinese credit in
the region as the nationalization of more than 1,000 companies,
the fastest inflation in the region and currency and price
controls drive away other lenders.  Venezuela currently sends 264,000 barrels a day to pay off
the loans, Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  said Aug. 15, according
to El Universal.  Inflation Slows  Annual  inflation  has slowed for eight consecutive months as
the government increases cheap imports and expands price
controls. Venezuelan consumer prices rose 19.4 percent last
month from a year earlier, the slowest pace in at least three
years.  “Lots of countries in the world and in the Americas would
like to have 5.4 percent growth right now,” Merentes said.
“When the fiscal year ends, let’s see how many countries are
above that.”  Manufacturing grew 0.4 percent in the second quarter from
the year earlier, while financial institutions rose 34.4
percent. Agriculture expanded 2.2 percent, the bank said.  Venezuela posted a current account surplus of $3.5 billion
in the quarter, while foreign direct investment was $1.3
billion. Imports rose 9.1 percent to $13.5 billion in the second
quarter, while non-oil exports fell 11 percent.  “Our target for 2012 was for 5 percent and we’re growing
above that estimate,” Finance Minister  Jorge Giordani  said.
“We now think it’s possible we’ll grow 5 percent to 6 percent
in the next period of government.”  Currency Threat  Venezuela will devalue the bolivar for the third time in as
many years after October’s elections to help narrow a  budget
deficit  swelled by Chavez’s spending binge, according to a
survey of analysts.  The weakening of the  exchange rate  and a slowdown in
spending after the vote may drive the economy into recession in
2013, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  The government will weaken the official rate 31 percent to
6.2 per dollar in the first quarter of 2013, generating more
revenue in local currency from each dollar of oil exports,
according to the median estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg in July.  Finance Minister Giordani said on Aug. 7 that the
government won’t hesitate to “take measures” if needed,
referring to the currency.  Election Race  While economic growth, slowing inflation and a rise in real
wages favor Chavez ahead of elections, the race looks closer
than in 2006, when he won with 63 percent against 37 percent for
opposition candidate Manuel Rosales, said  Boris Segura , a Latin
America strategist at Nomura Securities International in New
York.  Chavez had 45.9 percent support against 45.8 percent for
rival Henrique Capriles Radonski in a Consultores 21 poll of
1,000 people taken from June 15 to June 26. The survey had a
margin of error of 3.2 percentage points. In a June poll by
Caracas-based Datanalisis, Chavez had a 15 percentage-point
lead.  “The feel-good factor is there but it’s not as acute as it
was in 2006,” Segura said. “He hasn’t been able to spend as
much as he did in the last election. In 2006, three months
before the election no one was talking about the election
because they knew he was going to win.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  