-- Verdict in Murder Trial of Bo Xilai’s Wife to Be Issued Aug. 20
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-17T05:20:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/verdict-in-murder-trial-of-bo-xilai-s-wife-to-be-issued-aug-20.html
Chinese authorities will announce
the verdict in the murder trial of the wife of ousted Politburo
member Bo Xilai on Aug. 20, a local government official said.  The Hefei Intermediate People’s Court, in the capital of
 China ’s Anhui province, will reconvene to issue its decision,
Zheng Mingwu, vice director of the provincial government’s
information office, said by telephone today.  The verdict will conclude one chapter in a scandal that has
clouded a once-in-a-decade leadership transition and shift
attention to how the ruling Communist Party will handle Bo’s
case. China’s leaders have sought to cast his downfall as an
isolated episode involving an errant senior official ahead of
the party congress that will choose the next generation of
leaders later this year.  Gu Kailai confessed to charges that she poisoned British
businessman Neil Heywood in his hotel room during her one-day
trial Aug. 9, the state-run Xinhua News Agency said.  The political context of the case and the manner in which
court proceedings are conducted in China all point to a
predetermined guilty verdict, Donald Clarke, a law professor at
George Washington University, said before the trial started.
Clarke said he expected Gu to get a suspended death sentence.  The drama began in February when Bo’s former police chief
in Chongqing fled to the U.S. consulate in Chengdu with evidence
implicating Gu in Heywood’s murder, according to U.S. officials
briefed on the matter. The resulting diplomatic uproar presaged
Bo’s ouster as Chongqing party chief in March and his suspension
from the Politburo in April.  There were more than 140 people present in the court at Gu
and Zhang’s trial, including members of Heywood’s family and
friends, as well as British embassy officials, Hefei court
official Tang Yigan said Aug. 9.  Bo, previously a candidate to join the Politburo Standing
Committee, which is China’s supreme decision-making body, is
under investigation by the party for “serious disciplinary
violations.” He hasn’t been seen in public since the National
People’s Congress in Beijing in March.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  