-- Vietnam Lowers Credit Forecast as Business Slump Hurts Demand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-17T05:43:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/vietnam-lowers-credit-forecast-as-business-slump-hurts-demand.html
The Vietnamese central bank cut the
country’s credit forecast as slowing growth hurts loan demand
from businesses hobbled with unsold inventory, while lenders
struggle with rising bad debt.  Total 2012 lending growth won’t exceed 8 percent to 10
percent, the  State Bank  of  Vietnam  said in a statement on its
website late yesterday. The estimate is lower than a January
government target of 15 percent to 17 percent.  “It will be very difficult for lenders to meet their
lending targets” even if government support measures achieve
the maximum effect, the central bank said in the statement.
Credit increased 1.07 percent in the Jan. 1 to Aug. 8 period,
central bank data shows.  Vietnam’s expansion slowed to less than 5 percent in the
first half of the year and Deputy Prime Minister Vu Van Ninh has
said the country may miss its 6 percent growth target. Stagnant
lending may undermine efforts to rejuvenate the economy by
policy makers, who have cut  interest rates  and allowed some
commercial lenders to ramp up their credit growth to as much as
30 percent this year.  “Slow lending shows that it will be very difficult for the
economy to speed up, and banks’ profit will be hurt,” Vo Tri
Thanh, an economist and deputy head of the Central Institute for
Economic Management, said by phone today. About 80 percent of
Vietnamese banks’ earnings come from lending, Thanh said.  To spur lending, the central bank will provide funds to
commercial banks that have the potential to make good loans but
face difficulties with funding, Nguyen Thi Hong, head of the
central bank’s monetary policy department, said in an interview
in Hanoi yesterday. Lenders can access funds through daily open-
market operations or loans using bonds and bills as collateral,
she said.  Inventories in processing and manufacturing industries
including beverages, dairy and pharmaceuticals grew 21 percent
as of July 1 from a year earlier, according to figures from the
General Statistics Office in Hanoi.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  