-- Wall Street Bonus Estimates Cut by Pay Consultant Johnson
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-08-17T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/wall-street-bonus-estimates-cut-by-pay-consultant-johnson.html
Wall Street bonuses for 2012 will be
less than earlier estimates as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis
and stagnating economic growth weighed on results, according to
compensation consultant  Johnson Associates Inc.   “It’s the third year in a row where the first part of the
year is really good and we say, ‘Hey, things are getting
better,’ and then it’s kind of a downer,”  Alan Johnson , the New
York-based company’s president and founder, said yesterday in a
phone interview. “We were all looking for the more rapid
recovery. But it’s mildly up.”  Wall Street’s five biggest banks reported the worst first-
half revenue since 2008 this year.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  last
month posted its lowest first-half revenue since 2005 and said
it would cut $500 million of costs, mostly from compensation.  Incentive pay for senior management, excluding the
executives named on proxy filings, will be unchanged to 10
percent higher, Johnson Associates estimated in an Aug. 14
report. That’s down from  May , when the firm predicted senior
managers would get bonus boosts of 5 percent to 15 percent.  The biggest increases are still likely to come in fixed-
income and is now forecast to be 10 percent to 20 percent
instead of 15 percent to 25 percent, the new report showed.  “They had a terrible 2011, so it’s off of a low base,”
Johnson said. “We hoped that that business would have recovered
more dramatically, but it hasn’t, so I guess you’d say it’s gone
from terrible to so-so.”  Prime Brokers  In equities, bonuses will increase between 5 percent and 15
percent, down from the 10 percent to 15 percent estimate in May.
Investment bankers may see bonuses fall as much as 10 percent or
rise as much as 5 percent, Johnson estimates now, while in May
the declines were expected to be limited to 5 percent.  Bonuses for some asset managers and prime brokers will be
unchanged to 10 percent higher, Johnson estimated this week,
compared with a predicted increase in May of 5 percent to 10
percent.  Wall Street pay has declined more than people realize over
the past three or four years and is down “dramatically” from
the peak, Johnson said.  There is “that kind of view that everybody in financial
services just makes multiples of what they used to while the
average person is kind of flat over the last 15 years,” he
said. “Actually, Wall Street’s at pretty much the same place
now.”  Goldman Sachs set enough money aside to pay an average of
$225,789 to each of its employees for the first half of the
year, while  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s investment bank’s average pay
expense per employee was $184,989 for the same period. Wall
Street firms typically pay a portion of the money at the end of
the year in the form of incentive compensation, or bonuses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 