-- Westpac, 19 Banks Must Pay Bell Liquidators $2 Billion
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-08-17T07:22:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/westpac-18-banks-must-pay-bell-liquidators-2-billion.html
(Corrects number of banks in headline, third paragraph.)  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and a group of
lenders must pay more than A$2 billion ($2.1 billion) to
liquidators of the Bell Group after  Western Australia ’s top
court dismissed the banks’ appeal and increased the damages and
interest owed.  A three-judge panel of the Court of Appeal of Western
 Australia  by a 2-1 decision  upheld  the A$1.56 billion awarded by
Supreme Court of Western Australia Justice Neville Owen in 2009
and added additional interest, damages and costs of litigation
to the judgment.  The consortium of 20 banks led by Westpac, and including
 National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , Standard Chartered Bank,
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia  and Credit Lyonnais, took
security over assets of the Bell Group in 1990, a year before
the company filed for bankruptcy. The liquidators sued in 1995
claiming the banks assisted the directors to breach their duties
by agreeing to put up the security while knowing the company was
insolvent.  “It is a dispute of Brobdingnagian proportions,” Owen
 wrote  at the beginning of a 9,758-paragraph judgment in which he
concluded the Bell Group was insolvent in January 1990 and the
directors breached their duties.  Most Expensive  The appeal court ruled that generally, Owen was correct in
his decision.  The case has been the longest-running and most expensive in
the country’s history, the West Australian newspaper reported
today. Three former Federal Court judges were assigned the
appeal case because all other judges in the state had been
involved in the litigation, the newspaper said.  The banks are considering the judgment and the merits of
appeal to the  High Court  of Australia, John Vaughn, spokesman
for the lenders, said in a statement.  Bell Group was the company of Alan Bond, who had financed
Australia’s successful bid for the 1983 America’s Cup yachting
race.  In 1987, he purchased the Channel Nine television network
from Australian billionaire Kerry Packer for A$1 billion. Bond
declared bankruptcy in 1992, with personal debts of A$1.8
billion. Packer bought back the television channel for A$250
million.  The case is Westpac Banking Corp. v The Bell Group Ltd.
2012-WASCA 157.  Supreme Court  of Western Australia - Court of
Appeal (Perth).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  