-- Receiver Devon Smith Transfers to Marshall From Penn State
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-08-17T14:17:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/wide-receiver-devon-smith-transfer-to-marshall-from-penn-state.html
Wide receiver Devon Smith, who left
Pennsylvania State University’s football team in June,
transferred to  Marshall University , the Huntington,  West
Virginia , school said.  “Devon is a great young guy, has tremendous talent and is
one of the fastest players in the country,” Marshall coach Doc
Holliday said in a statement on the school’s website yesterday.
“He is a member of the Marshall family now and we’re excited
about it.”  Smith, a senior, left the Nittany Lions for personal
reasons,  Jeff Nelson , a spokesman for the  State College ,
Pennsylvania, school, said in an e-mail. Nelson didn’t give
details.  Smith was charged with possession of a small amount of
marijuana and drug paraphernalia in March, according to ESPN.
It’s not clear whether the arrest and his departure from the
team were related.  He is eligible to play next season because the  National
Collegiate Athletic Association  waived its provision that would
have required  Penn State  transfers to sit out a season as part
of sanctions related to the case of former assistant coach Jerry Sandusky, who was convicted of sexually molesting young boys.  Smith caught 25 passes for 402 yards and two touchdowns in
13 games last season. As a sophomore, he had 27 catches for 363
yards and one touchdown, and ranked second in the  Big Ten  with a
12.9-yard punt return average.  Paterno Collision  Smith had a sideline collision with  Joe Paterno  during a
2011 practice, injuring the then-Penn State coach’s shoulder and
hip, according to USA Today. Paterno, who was fired for his part
in the school’s handling of the Sandusky case, broke a leg in
2006 after a collision during a game at the University of
Wisconsin.  Marshall begins its season at  West Virginia University  on
Sept. 1.  Penn State’s top two scorers, Anthony Fera and Silas Redd,
left for other schools after the NCAA announced sanctions
related to the Sandusky case.  Fera transferred to the University of Texas, while Redd
committed to the University of  Southern California . Fera and
Redd combined for 104 of the Nittany Lions’ 251 points last
season, with Fera making 14 of 17 field-goal attempts while
earning second-team All-Big Ten honors as a punter.  The NCAA sanctions include a four-year bowl ban. The
program also lost 20 scholarships annually after college sports’
governing body determined school officials tried to cover up
Sandusky’s child abuse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  