-- Myriad, Nestle, Kodak, Kim Dotcom: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-08-17T10:49:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/myriad-nestle-kodak-kim-dotcom-intellectual-property.html
Myriad Genetics Inc. (MYGN) , owner of
patents related to genes linked to hereditary cancer risks, won
an appeals court ruling that it can receive patents on isolated
DNA, a case that has split the medical community.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit yesterday
said that some specific patent claims related to comparing the
DNA sequences are abstract ideas not worthy of a patent,
although a claim related to a method of screening potential
cancer therapeutics is eligible for legal protection. The same
three-judge panel made a similar decision a year ago, before it
was ordered by the Supreme Court to reconsider its findings.  The dispute centered on whether isolated DNA -- genetic
coding that has been removed from the body and separated from
other material -- is a product of nature and thus ineligible for
patent protection.  Myriad owns patents for a test that can determine the
hereditary risk of breast and ovarian cancers. Groups including
the Association for Molecular Pathology and the American College
of Medical Genetics argued Myriad was trying to get legal
ownership of parts of the human body.  Myriad, which said it was pleased with the ruling, said
gene-related patents haven’t hindered research.  The Federal Circuit was ordered to reconsider its July 2011
decision after the U.S.  Supreme Court  issued a ruling in a
separate case that limited the ability to get patents on certain
types of medical diagnostic tests.  The Federal Circuit said courts shouldn’t confuse the
general issue of whether an idea is eligible for a patent with
separate questions about whether a specific invention using that
idea should get a patent.  The Myriad dispute has split the medical community. Some
scientists argue they have been stymied in their quest for new
medicine and treatments because they fear coming up against
demands for royalties or letters demanding they stop using
patented inventions.  Companies such as  Genomic Health Inc. (GHDX)  and  Alnylam
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ALNY)  argue they can’t attract investment dollars
if they can’t protect their research from competitors.  The genetics groups, backed by the  American Civil Liberties
Union  and the Public Patent Foundation, sued to challenge
aspects of seven Myriad patents, and won at the trial court.  The case is Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad,
10-1406,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit
( Washington ). The lower court case is Association for Molecular
Pathology v. U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office , 09-cv-4515, U.S.
District Court for the District of  New York .  Nestle Loses Bid to Block Sales of Rival Nespresso Capsules  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food company, lost court
rulings over attempts to stop companies from selling rival
capsules compatible with Nespresso machines in  Germany .  Nestle’s patents for the coffee machine system don’t
prevent consumers from using other capsules, the Dusseldorf
Regional Court said in an e-mail statement yesterday. The
capsules are neither the key component nor a “special feature”
of the protected invention, the judges said.  Nespresso faces increased competition as food companies
including  DE Master Blenders 1753 (DE)  seek to sell single-serve
capsules that can be used with Nespresso machines. The German
court’s decisions came from Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle’s
suits against Ethical Coffee Co. and Betron AG.  Nestle, which had asked for a preliminary injunction under
fast-track proceedings, can ask the court to hear the case under
full civil-trial process in an effort to get a different
decision and can also appeal today’s judgment.  “We are convinced of the power of our legal arguments and
will thus take further steps to defend our  intellectual
property ,” Holger Feldmann, managing director of Nestle’s
German Nespresso unit, said in an e-mail statement.
“Competition must be fair and rules must be the same for all.”  Master Blenders markets its L’Or capsules in  France , the
Netherlands, Belgium and Spain, while Ethical Coffee’s rival
capsules are available in at least 10 countries including
Austria and Germany. Both Betron and Ethical Coffee are selling
capsules that say they are “usable for Nespresso machines” at
prices that are as much as a third cheaper than the Nestle
capsules, according to the court.  “Since the buyer acquires the right to use the machine,
there is no patent violation when he uses capsules of other
producers,” the German court said.  Nespresso, which produced 3.5 billion Swiss francs ($3.6
billion) in revenue in 2011, or 4 percent of Nestle’s sales, has
been one of the company’s fastest-growing brands. Sales are
increasing about 20 percent annually and Nespresso continues to
take market share even as new competitors arise, Ackerman said.  Yesterday’s cases are LG Dusseldorf, 4b O 81/12 and 4b O
82/12.  Kodak Says Digital Patent Sale Uncertain, Auction Continuing  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , the bankrupt photography pioneer, said
it’s continuing the extended auction of its digital-imaging
patents and may not sell them.  Kodak continues to hold talks with potential buyers of the
portfolios, the Rochester, New York-based company said yesterday
in an e-mailed statement.  “The company reiterates that it has not reached a
determination or agreement to sell the digital imaging patent
portfolio, and may retain all or parts of it as a source of
creditor recoveries in lieu of a sale if it concludes that doing
so is in the best interests of the estate,” Kodak said in the
statement.  The patents for sale relate to the capture, manipulation
and sharing of digital images. Kodak is selling the patents to
fund a turnaround after seeking Chapter 11 protection in
January, pursuing a plan to shrink the company and focus on
printing more than photography. Chief Executive Officer Antonio Perez is pushing ahead with the sale amid legal fights with
device makers, including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , over the ownership and
validity of some of the patents.  The patents are collateral for a $950 million debtor-in-
possession loan arranged by Citigroup Inc. to help Kodak operate
during bankruptcy.  In court documents, Rochester, New York-based Kodak has
said the patents may be worth $2.21 billion to $2.57 billion,
based on an estimate by patent advisory firm 284 Partners LLC.
Kodak said it has generated more than $3 billion in revenue by
licensing some of the digital-imaging patents to users,
including  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ,  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) ,  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility unit and  Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)   Kodak said in June that 20 parties had signed agreements to
view confidential information ahead of potential bids. The
identities of unsuccessful bidders will be kept secret under
auction rules.  The company and its creditors this week agreed to extend
the auction deadline beyond Aug. 13, “in light of continuing
discussions with bidders,” without providing a revised target
date.  Kodak filed for bankruptcy after years of burning through
cash while digital photography eroded its film business. The
company had spent $3.4 billion on restructuring before
bankruptcy, including payouts to shed 47,000 employees since
2003, closing 13 factories that produced film, paper and
chemicals, and 130 photo laboratories.  The bankruptcy case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Use of Sturgis Bike Rally Trademarks Costs Vendors $1 per Item  All the T-shirts sold at this year’s South Dakota gathering
of motorcycle fans bore an official product tag from Sturgis
Motorcycle Rally Inc. for which vendors must pay $1 apiece, the
Rapid City Journal  reported .  Sturgis Motorcycle Rally Inc. , holder of several trademarks
associated with this month’s annual bike rally, did not let any
unlicensed vendors sell at the rally, so Rushmore Photo & Gifts,
which is the defendant in a rally-related trademark suit, was
among the missing vendors, according to the newspaper.  Dean Kinny, who heads the non-profit SMRI, told the
newspaper the idea of the licensing program is to “ensure
quality control” and to audit the licensees to make sure
appropriate fees are collected.  Frank Mortimer, a member of Concerned Citizens for Sturgis,
said his group has anonymous support from some vendors in its
effort to challenge the trademarks, according to the Rapid City
Journal.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  U.S. Loses Bid to Limit Disclosure in Kim Dotcom Extradition  The U.S. lost a bid to limit the amount of information it
must turn over to Megaupload.com founder Kim Dotcom, accused of
orchestrating the biggest copyright infringement in the
country’s history, in his fight against extradition from New
Zealand.  New Zealand  High Court  Justice Helen Winkelmann yesterday
rejected a U.S. request to review a district court judge’s order
to turn over evidence relating to Dotcom’s indictment, including
all records obtained in connection with covert operations
undertaken by agents involved in the investigation.  “The NZ High Court ruling in @KimDotcom case citing Bill
of Rights protects Kim’s rights and the rights of all New
Zealand residents,” Ira Rothken, a lawyer for Dotcom, wrote on
Twitter following the ruling.  Dotcom, 38, was indicted in what U.S. prosecutors dubbed a
“Mega Conspiracy,” accusing his file-sharing website of
generating more than $175 million in criminal proceeds from the
exchange of pirated film, music, book and software files. He
faces as long as 20 years in prison for each of the racketeering
and money-laundering charges in the indictment, with the U.S.
seeking his extradition for a trial in  Virginia .  The amount of documentation ordered to be turned over to
Dotcom was unprecedented in the country or anywhere else for
extradition cases, the U.S. had said.  “Disclosure in relation to extradition cases is extremely
limited,” prosecutors had said, according to a summary of the
arguments written by Winkelmann.  Extradition hearings are “essentially criminal in
character” and the accused must be assured a fair hearing,
according to New Zealand’s Bill of Rights, Winkelmann wrote.  “The more significant the rights affected, the more
stringent the procedural rules designed to maintain the fairness
of the process are likely to be,” the judge wrote.  The case is between  United States of America  and Kim
Dotcom, 2012-404-3026, High Court of New Zealand (Auckland).  Maya Publishing Infringed Star’s Wedding Photos, Court Says  Maya Publishing Inc., a Miami Beach, Florida-based
publisher of Spanish-language magazines, committed copyright
infringement by publishing unauthorized wedding and wedding
night photos of a pop singer and her manager, an appeals court
ruled.  In its Aug. 14 opinion, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals said the publication of the photos of singer Noelia
Monge and Jorge Reynosa’s clandestine wedding didn’t fall into
copyright law’s “fair use” provisions.  The couple wanted to keep the marriage a secret out of
privacy concerns and their desire not to affect Monge’s image as
“a young, single pop singer,” the court said. The couple took
precautions, permitting only the minister and two chapel
employees to witness the ceremony, and limiting photos to those
taken with their own camera.  Saying the story behind the case “reads like a
telanovela,” the appeals court said a third party claimed he
found the photos on a memory chip left in the ashtray of a
vehicle Reynosa had driven. According to court papers, the third
party initially tried to get money from the couple in return for
the memory chip.  When the plan failed, the court said, the photos were sold
to the magazine for $1,500. The photos were sold without
permission, the couple said at trial.  They filed suit in federal court in July 2009. The trial
court ruled in October 2010 finding no infringement, and the
couple filed an appeal.  The appeals court said that the magazine published
virtually every photo and usurped any future commercial use of
the photos.  Although the magazine had claimed its use of the photos was
legitimate news reporting, the court said that “waving the news
reporting flag is not a get out of jail free card in the
copyright arena.”  The appeals court reversed the trial court and sent the
case back for further proceedings.  The appeal is Noelia Monge v. Maya Magazines Inc.,
10-56710, U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit.  The lower
court case is Noelia Lorenzo Monge v. Maya Magazines Inc., 2:09-
cv-05077-R-SS, U.S. District Court, Central District of
 California  (Los Angeles).  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Pryor Cashman Hires Finguerra-DuCharme From White & Case  Pryor Cashman LLP hired Dyan Finguerra-DuCharme for its IP
practice, the New York-based firm said in a statement.  Finguerra-DuCharme , who previously practiced at New York’s
 White & Case  LLP and Washington’s Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale &
Dorr LLP, is a litigator. Among clients she has represented in
trademark and copyright disputes are a luxury goods maker, a car
manufacturer, a national financial services firm, a lifestyle
community developer and homebuilder.  She has an undergraduate degree from Hamilton College and a
law degree from Brooklyn Law School.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 