-- Yuan Snaps Two-Day Loss on Bets Europe Will Tackle Debt Crisis
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-08-17T02:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-17/yuan-snaps-two-day-loss-on-bets-europe-will-tackle-debt-crisis.html
China ’s yuan advanced for the first
time in three days after German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  backed
the  European Central Bank ’s approach to resolving the region’s
debt crisis, bolstering the outlook for Chinese exports.  The currency almost erased its weekly loss after Merkel
said yesterday euro-area policy makers “feel committed to do
everything we can to maintain the common currency.” Europe is
one of the top export destinations for Asia’s largest economy.
The People’s Bank of China may cut benchmark  interest rates 
before lowering banks’ required reserve ratios to free up funds
for lending, according to a front-page article in the Securities
Times today.  “Merkel’s remarks have boosted sentiment on Asian
currencies,” said Stella Lee, president of Success Futures &
Foreign Exchange Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “Europe’s actions are vital
to Chinese exports outlook.” Speculation that “China’s long-
awaited rate cut and more stimulus will soon occur also provide
support to the”  yuan , she said.  The yuan strengthened 0.06 percent to 6.3617 per dollar as
of 10:02 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System. The currency was little changed from
6.3600 at the end of last week. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of exchange-rate swings used to price options, dropped
14 basis points this week to 1.26 percent. The gauge was little
changed today.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan gained 0.07
percent today to 6.3662 per dollar. Twelve-month non-deliverable
forwards rose 0.07 percent to 6.4450 today, limiting this week’s
decline to 0.27 percent. The contracts, which touched this
year’s lowest level yesterday, traded at 1.3 percent discount to
the onshore rate, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Trading Band  The PBOC raised the yuan’s  reference rate  by 0.07 percent,
the most since Aug. 6, to 6.3449 per dollar today. The central
bank yesterday set the daily fixing at the weakest level since
Nov. 29. The currency traded at a 0.25 percent discount to the
daily fixing, well within the 1 percent limit.  China should “suitably” allow a larger range for yuan to
move to ensure that effective  exchange rate  remains stable, Chen
Daofu, a researcher at the State Council’s development research
center wrote in a commentary published in the Shanghai
Securities News today.  The People’s Bank of China may expand the yuan’s daily
trading band against the dollar to 2.25 percent by early next
year, Oriental Morning Post cited Lu Zhengwei, chief economist
with Industrial Bank Co., as saying. Free yuan trading may start
in 2015, the paper said, citing Lu.  China widened the yuan’s trading band to 1 percent in
April, after having held the limit at 0.5 percent since May
2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  