-- Josh Hamilton Leads Rangers’ All-Stars With Record Vote Total
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-07-02T04:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/hamilton-sets-all-star-record-yankees-rangers-giants-dominate.html
     July 2 (Bloomberg) -- Josh Hamilton  is among three Texas
Rangers named to the American League’s starting lineup for the
83rd Major League Baseball All-Star Game after receiving a
record 11.1 million votes in fan balloting.  Joining him as starters in the July 10 game in Kansas City,
Missouri, will be Rangers third baseman Adrian Beltre and
catcher  Mike Napoli . Including reserves, the two-time defending
AL champion Rangers have seven All-Stars.  “We have a great team,” Hamilton, whose 25 home runs are
one off the major-league lead, told MLB.com. “You look up and
down our lineup. We’ve been to two World Series in a row, and
the reason is not one player, it’s multiple players.”  The New York Yankees also have three players voted as AL
starters in shortstop  Derek Jeter , second baseman Robinson Cano
and center fielder Curtis Granderson.  The American League has lost two straight games after a
12-0-1 run from 1997 to 2009. At stake in the All-Star Game is
home-field advantage in the World Series.  Toronto Blue Jays outfielderJose Bautista, who is also
among this year’s AL starters, set a record in 2011 when he
received 7.45 million votes. Fans this year cast 40.2 million
ballots, breaking the record of 32.5 million set last year, MLB
said in an e-mailed statement.  Prince Fielder of the Detroit Tigers, the Most Valuable
Player of the 2011 All-Star Game, starts at first base and the
AL lineup is completed by Boston Red Sox designated hitter  David Ortiz , who will play for the eighth time.  Team Managers  The AL team will be managed by Ron Washington of the
Rangers, while Tony La Russa, who retired after leading the St.
Louis Cardinals to victory in the World Series last year, will
lead the National League team.  The NL starting lineup includes a trio of San Francisco
Giants -- catcher  Buster Posey , Pablo Sandoval at third base and
Melky Cabrera in the outfield. Posey and Cabrera are each making
their first trip to the game.  San Francisco’s Matt Cain, who pitched the first perfect
game in Giants history June 13, is among the starting pitchers
named to the NL staff.  Cain is joined by knuckleball pitcher R.A. Dickey, who has
a major league-leading 12 wins for the New York Mets.  Washington Nationals duo  Stephen Strasburg  and Gio Gonzalez,  Clayton Kershaw  of the Los Angeles Dodgers, Wade Miley
of the Arizona Diamondbacks,  Cole Hamels  of the Philadelphia
Phillies and Lance Lynn of the Cardinals are the other starting
pitchers to make the NL team. Relievers on the National League
roster are Aroldis Chapman of the Cincinnati Reds, Joel Hanrahan
of the Pittsburgh Pirates, Craig Kimbrel of the Atlanta Braves,
 Jonathan Papelbon  of the Philadelphia Phillies and Huston Street
of the San Diego Padres.  AL Pitchers  CC Sabathia of the Yankees is joined by AL starting
pitchers Chris Sale of the Chicago White Sox, Jered Weaver and
C.J. Wilson of the Los Angeles Angels,  Felix Hernandez  of the
Seattle Mariners,  Justin Verlander  of the Tigers, Matt Harrison
of the Rangers and  David Price  of the Tampa Bay Rays.  The AL’s relievers are Ryan Cook of the Oakland Athletics,
Jim Johnson of the Baltimore Orioles, Joe Nathan of the Rangers,
Chris Perez of the Cleveland Indians and Fernando Rodney of the
Rays.  Cincinnati first baseman  Joey Votto , Atlanta second baseman
Dan Uggla and Cardinals shortstop Rafael Furcal complete the NL
infield.  Carlos Beltran of the Cardinals and injured Dodgers center
fielderMatt Kemp, who was voted in as a starter for the second
consecutive year, will join Cabrera in the NL outfield.  All-Star Reserves  Mets third baseman David Wright is among the NL reserves,
making his sixth All-Star team. Milwaukee’s  Ryan Braun ,
Cincinnati’s Jay Bruce, Colorado’s  Carlos Gonzalez , Pittsburgh’s
Andrew McCutchen and Miami’s Giancarlo Stanton are the NL’s
reserve outfielders, while Houston’s Jose Altuve, Washington’s
Ian Desmond and the Cubs’ Starlin Castro and Bryan LaHair are
infield reserves. The NL’s backup catchers are the Cardinals’
Yadier Molina and the Phillies’ Carlos Ruiz.  Angels 20-year-old rookie outfielder Mike Trout is the
seventh-youngest position player to make the AL All-Star team.  The AL’s other reserve outfielders are fellow Angel Mark Trumbo and Baltimore’s Adam Jones, while Adam Dunn of the White
Sox and Billy Butler of the Kansas City Royals made the roster
as backups at designated hitter. The AL’s reserve infielders are
 Elvis Andrus  and Ian Kinsler of the Rangers, Asdrubal Cabrera of
the Cleveland Indians, Miguel Cabrera of the Tigers and Paul Konerko of the White Sox.  Joe Mauer of the Minnesota Twins and Matt Wieters of the
Orioles are the AL’s backup catchers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dex McLuskey at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net  