-- Mao College Town Booms Signaling Offset to Slowdown in China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-02T04:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/mao-college-town-booms-signaling-offset-to-slowing-china-growth.html
In a hard hat and muddy boots, Ren
Jinbo sits below a half-finished railway bridge, happy to be
back mixing cement in the central Chinese city of Changsha.  “It’s certainly better than plowing the field back home,”
said Ren, 41, who was laid off and returned to rural Shaoyang in
January as national efforts to cool construction spending and
 house prices  slowed building. “My boss phoned me in early May
that the work must be accelerated, so here I am again.”  The boom in Changsha and other inland cities is cushioning
China and the world at a time when global growth is slowing, and
may help relieve the damping effects of the debt crisis in
Europe, China’s largest export market. First-quarter growth in
Changsha was 10.8 percent, compared with 8.1 percent nationally.  “The key target of  government spending  is in central and
western Chinese places like Changsha,” said  Zhu Haibin , Hong
Kong-based chief China economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
“Economic growth in inland provinces has been stronger than
coastal areas and the trend is expected to continue for another
five to 10 years.”  Whole neighborhoods in the city 650 kilometers (400 miles)
north of Hong Kong, where the late leader  Mao Zedong  went to
college, are being cleared for offices, highways, apartments and
subway lines. By attracting rural folk like Ren and factory
workers fleeing higher living costs in seaboard cities, the
transformation of central China is keeping a slowdown in the
world’s second-largest economy from becoming a slump.  Changsha is still benefiting from stimulus China unleashed
in 2008, as well as investment from companies lured by wage
levels as much as a third lower than on the coast.  Gathering Pace  The annual growth rate of fixed-asset investment in
Changsha accelerated to 15.5 percent in the first five months of
2012, from 1.7 percent in the first quarter, government data
show. Changsha’s 222 key urban development projects for 2012
have an annual budget of 40 billion  yuan ,  according to the city .
Two subway lines are under construction and work will begin on
another two this year, the local government says.  The home of China’s biggest machinery maker,  Sany Heavy
Equipment International Holdings Co. (631) , and a new car plant for
 Fiat SA (F) , is doing better than the nation’s coastal export
centers, such as Wenzhou. A manufacturing report released today
by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit indicated the biggest decline in
overseas orders since the global financial crisis.  Changsha’s building boom is still rolling from the 4
trillion yuan fiscal stimulus Premier Wen Jiabao announced in
2008. Much of that was aimed at spreading wealth away from the
coast through building programs in central and western China,
including the rail line that will run over Ren’s bridge.  Global Support  The two-year spending binge, and an accompanying 17.6
trillion yuan  credit surge , helped prop up the global economy at
the time. In 2012, the government’s stimulus is more muted,
targeting clean energy and western provinces like Sichuan and
Yunnan. That’s little help for Europe’s debt-ridden economies
and the export-based industrial areas like Wenzhou that have
seen orders decline.  China is targeting support to prevent a slump and sustain
overall growth at about 8 percent rather than “a major stimulus
that would ‘save’ the world economy as in 2009,” saidWang Tao,
an economist at UBS AG in  Hong Kong .  With the central cities leading the nation’s recovery,
local machinery makers Sany and  Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science
& Technology Co. (1157) , also based in Changsha, are set to benefit,
said Zhang Wenxian, a Hong Kong-based analyst with Haitong
International Research Ltd., an arm of Haitong Securities.  “Strong investment pickup in central and western Chinese
places like Hunan will give these companies a big boost,”
Zhang, who has a 12-month-target of HK$12.80 for Zoomlion, 31
percent above the closing price on June 29.  Airport Lounge  Pictures of Zoomlion’s logo and machines line the walls of
the arrivals lounge at Changsha’s airport. Sales of concrete
mixers and equipment, key product lines for both Sany and
Zoomlion, are expected to grow 30 percent in 2012, Zhang said.  Other companies are moving production inland to cut wage
bills. Terry Gou, chairman of  Foxconn Technology Group (2354) , maker of
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad, is shifting plants from southern China to
cities such as Chengdu, Wuhan, and Chongqing. To help pay for
the move, Foxconn flagship  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317)  in
April announced its lowest annual dividend in at least 15 years.  Unilever (UNA) , the world’s second-biggest consumer-products
maker, said it moved seven factories 400 kilometers inland from
Shanghai to Hefei to cut costs, and plans to make the capital of
Anhui province its largest global manufacturing center.  Coastal Migrants  The migration of manufacturing has spawned a new migration
of workers. Those from the villages, like Ren, can double the
salary they’d get on a farm.  “The building site provides my food and shelter and I can
make 3,000 to 4,000 yuan a month here,” he said.  Others, such as 23-year-old Fan Xuebin, are escaping the
higher rent and living costs along the coast.  At Changsha’s government-backed labor exchange downtown,
Fan said he’s just resigned from his jade sales job in Shenzhen,
the free-trade city that sprang up next to Hong Kong at the
birth of China’s industrial boom.  “The living cost is too high in Shenzhen and my friends
told me Changsha would be an easier place to live,” he said,
surrounded by screens hanging from the ceiling that list job
openings. “I’m willing to take a bit of a salary cut.”  While the six central provinces and the municipality of
Chongqing account for less than 12 percent of China’s total
area, they contributed 23.3 percent of the country’s gross
domestic product in 2010, up from 22 percent in 2006. The six
are expected to raise per capita GDP to 36,000 yuan by 2015,
according to the economic planning agency in Beijing. That’s
about 40 percent more than Hunan’s level last year.  Urban Shift  “A strong rebound in economic activity is taking place,”
said Shen Jianguang, a Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. economist in
Hong Kong who previously worked for the  International Monetary
Fund . “Urbanization will offer long-term support for growth in
China. A lot of rural residents will become urban dwellers in
the coming years, and many will settle in second- or third-tier
cities like Changsha.”  At Changsha Ferrari Winery Trading Co. in the city center,
sales are expected to rise 10 percent this year, said Executive
Manager Amy Huang, who added the  Italian sports-car brand  to
boost the drink’s image. “I don’t feel any economic slowdown.”  Lai Li, owner of Changsha Weili Jade shop, agrees.  “Business is good as usual,” said Lai, who offers
thumbnail-sized carvings of the green stone for 3,000 yuan each,
almost a month’s average salary in the city. “I’ve been in this
business for 20 years.”  Stinky Tofu  The city of 7 million, once a center of literature and rice
trading, is known in China for its spicy food and nightlife. On
a recent weekday evening, streets of bars and restaurants around
Taipingjie Lane were crowded. As staff set up outdoor screens to
show a European soccer championship match at midnight, tourists
and locals drank beer and bought bowls of the city’s famous
fried  stinky tofu .  “It’s always like this, it’s Changsha,” said Yu Zheng,
one of the countless unlicensed electric-bike drivers who ferry
people around the streets for 10 yuan a ride. Traffic jams
caused by the city’s ubiquitous construction sites have helped
make the bikes a popular form of public transport.  On Juzizhou islet in the Xiang River, which joins the
Yangtze and brought commerce to the city more than 1,000 years
ago, the young Mao wrote a poem describing blue waters, deep
woods and crimson hills.  Changing Vista  Construction workers now sweat at the location, building a
subway station, another product of the 2009 largesse. From Mao’s
halcyon vista, the view north across the river has become a
skyline of cranes looming over residential blocks, with
billboards advertising river views and sales hotlines.  Risks to the recovery remain, particularly from outside the
country. Citigroup Inc. cut China’s 2012 GDP estimate to 7.8
percent, from 8.1 percent last month, citing “anemic” domestic
activity in the second quarter and further weakening of European
demand.  An escalation of Europe’s debt crisis may cause a hard
landing: Weaker external demand erodes China’s growth by nearly
1 percentage point, Citigroup analysts Ding Shuang and  Shen Minggao  wrote in a report dated June 22. Europe buys about 18
percent of the nation’s overseas shipments, according to Shenyin
& Wanguo Securities Co.  As elsewhere in China, construction has displaced thousands
and raised allegations of corruption. In the Changdao Hotel on
the eight-lane Wuyi Avenue that bisects the city, Huang Rong and
other employee-owners of the 1970s landmark were staging a sit-
in, claiming they hadn’t been compensated for its demolition.  Plastic Bags  Half of the building has already gone. Huang and her former
colleagues sleep on desks in the remaining half, eating food
from plastic bags bought from local vendors. Around the wreck,
with missing walls, broken windows and doors leading to vanished
bedrooms, a steel fence says “Danger. Please Keep Out.”  “Sometimes I miss the days of Chairman Mao,” said Huang.
“He would give people justice and kill all the corrupt
officials.” The government office for the hotel’s district
didn’t respond to phone calls seeking comment.  The razing of residential blocks is helping 45-year-old
property speculator Peng Canhui weather the national real-estate
downturn. He’s sold 15 units so far in 2012 at an average of
about 6,000 yuan per square meter.  “Most of the buyers are in urgent need of a new home as
their old one is being destroyed,” he said, sipping green tea
at his friend’s real estate office. Peng, who started six years
ago, said his “happiest days” were in 2009.  Reselling Apartments  “In those days, I could buy an apartment and resell it for
10-15 percent more within a week,” Peng said. “Now I have four
flats in hand -- the longest for three months -- and I will
definitely sell if I can make 5 percent.”  Changsha’s housing market is doing better than many, with a
1.6 percent drop in values in May from a year before, compared
with a 14 percent slide in Wenzhou. Prices declined in a record
54 of 70 cities tracked by the government in May as developers
sought to boost sales. Property accounted for one-fifth of the
nation’s fixed asset spending in the first five months of this
year, data from the state statistics agency show.  Peng says the market is close to bottom as the government
is relaxing lending restrictions. China’s policy makers released
funds for 2.3 million low-cost houses, eased curbs on banks and
expanded loans for first-time buyers to try to support the
market without reviving the soaring prices of 2009.  China’s Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said on June 19 that
the country’s economy “is turning for the better.”  “The wind is changing,” said Peng. “I call my friends at
banks every day and they are becoming more generous.”  Vegetable Fields  The epitome of optimism in the city’s real-estate market is
a field of vegetables and chickens at the end of a suburban dirt
track by Tan Jingchun’s two-floor brick home.  Near where 78-year-old Tan is serving tea to six elderly
friends over a game of mahjong, a unit of air-conditioner maker
Broad Group says it plans to build the world’s tallest building,
an 838-meter (2,750-feet) tower called Sky City. The target for
completing the skyscraper, using prefabricated panels, is
January, according to a statement from the company, which
earlier this year built a  30-story hotel  in 15 days.  “I don’t believe it,” said farmer Chen Jinliang, 50,
tending his cows on the site. “They’ve been talking about
building a new road near the village for years. How can the
world’s tallest building be built so quickly?”  Across town at the Central-South China Automobile World,
the city’s biggest car market, the property dip has had little
effect on the local dealership for Emgrand, the most expensive
sedan brand for Hong Kong-listed  Geely Automobile Holdings. (175)   ‘Biggest Problem’  “An economic slowdown, for me, is a property market
thing,” said Zhou Qingfeng, a manager in the showroom who
predicts his sales will rise 20 percent this year. “My biggest
problem now is not that we don’t have enough orders; we don’t
have enough cars.”  Behind him, among potential buyers studying brochures on
islands of sofas or inspecting the 80,000 yuan vehicles, a
middle-aged customer was chastising an employee for repeated
delivery delays on an order he’d placed more than two weeks ago.  At the  Renault SA (RNO)  dealer, Hunan Tianhe Car Sales & Service
Co., Manager Xun Xiaoqiang said the economic slowdown has
changed the way customers pay.  “In 2010, maybe one in 10 customers would apply for a  bank
loan  to buy a car; in 2012 three or four out of 10 would,” said
Xun, 30. “They don’t have as much cash as before.”  He still estimates sales will rise 20 percent this year.
“People want to have their own automobile,” he said.  --Zhou Xin. With assistance from Liza Lin in Shanghai and  Kevin Hamlin  in Beijing. Editors: Adam Majendie, Chris Anstey, Anne Swardson  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Zhou Xin in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at   ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net . 