-- Marijuana as Medicine Needs Rules to Drive By
-- B y   R o b e r t   F r i c h t e l
-- 2012-07-01T22:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/marijuana-as-medicine-needs-rules-to-drive-by.html
Let’s start by stating that driving
while impaired by drugs or alcohol is a crime and must be
punished. All 50 U.S. states have clear laws prohibiting this
activity.  But there is one intoxicant that is trickier than the
others: marijuana, especially when used for  medical  purposes.  During the past two years, Colorado and  Montana , along with
more than a dozen other states, have proposed laws that set a
strict threshold for determining when a marijuana user is deemed
too impaired to drive. These would consider a concentration of
more than 5 nanograms of tetrahydrocannabinol, or THC (the
psychoactive component of marijuana) per milliliter of blood, as
hands-down proof of intoxication or impairment.  The result would be an automatic guilty verdict, with all
that entails: a temporary loss of driving privileges, fines,
lawyer’s fees, possible jail time and greatly increased
insurance premiums. By some estimates, a conviction for driving
under the influence (DUI) can cost a driver as much as $10,000.  Several states are going further and have either adopted or
are considering  zero-tolerance  laws for THC levels. This means
any THC in the blood would result in a conviction.  Here’s the problem with these laws: There are questions
about how, and at what level, cannabis use impairs driving
ability. For a patient in one of the 17 states where marijuana
has been legalized for medicinal use, how are you to know when
it’s legal to drive? After consuming marijuana, should you wait
12 hours to drive or one day? When will your THC level be below
the 5-nanogram threshold? The answer is complicated.  Chronic Users  Although marijuana is readily detectable in toxicology
 tests  of blood, hair, urine or saliva, what isn’t clear is just
how quickly THC passes through the body. We know, for example,
that THC may be detected in the blood of occasional users
several hours after ingesting. But in some chronic users there
may be traces for days after the last use, long after any
performance-impairing effects have subsided.  This is a very clear contrast with alcohol. There is a firm
understanding of the rate at which the body  metabolizes  alcohol
and there are well-known guidelines on how much time must pass
after drinking before one is fit to drive. Tests can easily be
administered in roadside stops. Those who fail simple benchmarks
of sobriety -- not to mention breath tests -- are usually
convicted or plead guilty.  The research on how marijuana affects driving is far less
conclusive, though.  Testing done on drivers under the influence of alcohol
often show that drivers display more aggressive behavior behind
the wheel, and errors are more pronounced than when sober. The
opposite tends to be true when drivers are under the influence
of THC; they tend to have heightened awareness -- rather than
diminished sensitivity as they do after drinking -- to their
surroundings. As a result, they tend to compensate by driving
more cautiously.  A 2007 control study published in the Canadian Journal of
 Public Health  reviewed 10 years of U.S. auto-fatality data.
Investigators found that U.S. drivers with blood-alcohol levels
of 0.05 percent -- a level below the national 0.08 percent legal
limit -- were three times as likely to have been driving
unsafely before a fatal crash, compared with individuals who
tested positive for marijuana.  What this means is that we need more research before new
DUI marijuana laws are enacted. Setting an absolute impairment
standard for THC bloodstream levels is premature. And these
laws, which target marijuana use and associated medical
marijuana patients, are discriminatory.  Pain Killers  I say this at a time when there is an absence of
legislation dealing with the use and well-documented abuse of
prescription painkillers, which can dangerously impair the
judgment needed for safe driving. State legislatures aren’t
setting arbitrary and scientifically unproven blood-level
standards for these drugs. So why are they focused on marijuana?  Driving while intoxicated must anywhere and everywhere be
illegal, whether that impairment is caused by  prescription
drugs , alcohol purchased at a liquor store or marijuana used on
the recommendation of a doctor. Under current standards, someone
can be charged with DUI for marijuana use based on roadside
sobriety tests and observations by the arresting officer in
conjunction with blood samples. Those tests serve their purpose
at this point.  But if states are going to turn to strict threshold laws,
they should answer this question: Based solely on THC
concentrations in blood from marijuana, when is a driver too
impaired to drive safely?  Until the evidence is in, it’s hard to see why any state
needs to lower the burden of proof necessary to convict someone
of a DUI marijuana charge.  (Robert Frichtel is managing partner of the  Medical
Marijuana Business Exchange . The opinions expressed are his
own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on ways to  strengthen the
health-care-reform law  and on  Europe’s banking deal ; William D.
Cohan on  Wall Street’s municipal-bond scam ;  Noah Feldman  on the
 constitutional right to lie ;  Albert Hunt  on the  politics of the
health-care ruling ;  Pankaj Mishra  on  redefining the idea of
Europe ; Robert Boxwell on  Japan ’s  inadequate fight against
insider trading .  To contact the writer of this article:
Robert Frichtel at   robert@mymmjexchange.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  