-- Diamond Defies Pressure, Pledges to Complete Review
-- B y   E d w a r d   E v a n s   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-07-02T15:48:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/barclays-chairman-agius-said-to-step-down-after-libor-fine-1-.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Diamond  resisted pressure to quit after the bank was fined
for rigging  interest rates , saying he has the “full support”
of directors.  “No one is more sorry, disappointed and angry about these
events than I am,” Diamond wrote in a letter to employees
today. “We all know that these events are not representative of
our culture, and it is my responsibility to get to the bottom of
that and resolve it.”  Diamond commented after Marcus Agius resigned as chairman
in a bid to shield him after the bank was fined a record 290
million pounds ($451 million). British lawmakers are pushing for
his resignation after U.K. and U.S. regulators found the lender
“systematically” attempted to rig the  London  and euro
interbank offered rates for profit.  Agius’s departure “will do little to appease the many who
see  Bob Diamond  as having primary responsibility,” Gary Greenwood, a banking analyst at Shore Capital, said by e-mail.
“While Agius’s departure will grab the headlines today, the
bigger issue remains whether Diamond should also remain.”  Diamond has been called to appear before British lawmakers
on the Treasury Select Committee on July 4 and Agius the day
after. Prime Minister David Cameron today announced a
parliamentary inquiry into the U.K. banking industry to be
headed by the chairman of Parliament’s Treasury committee  Andrew Tyrie .  Public Report  Michael Rake, who was today named deputy chairman, will
oversee an inquiry into the bank’s business practices, the
lender said today. The panel, to be run by an independent
outsider and a group of non-executive directors, will produce a
public report of its findings.  Diamond pledged to bolster the controls surrounding the
firm’s Libor submissions and take “appropriate action” against
those involved with rigging the benchmark interest rate. That
includes clawing back compensation and asking people to resign,
he said.  “Of course, given the nature of the authorities involved,
the investigations were accompanied by criminal inquiries, and
some of those are still under way,” Diamond said. “I have
reviewed the actions that I set out above in detail with Marcus
and the other non-executive directors. We have their full
support.”  Barclays closed up 3.4 percent at 168.40 pence in London,
valuing the lender at 20.6 billion pounds. The stock has fallen
13 percent since the fine was announced on June 27, making it
this year’s worst performer in the six-member FTSE 350 banks
index.  ‘Truly Sorry’  “I am truly sorry,” Agius, who had been  chairman  of
Britain’s second-largest bank by assets since 2007, said in a
statement today. “Last week’s events, evidencing as they do
unacceptable standards of behavior within the bank, have dealt a
devastating blow to Barclays’s reputation.”  John Sunderland, a Barclays director and former chairman of
Cadbury Schweppes Plc, will oversee a search for a replacement,
the London-based lender said. Agius, 65, will remain in his
position until his successor is appointed.  “Politicians will see this as Agius taking a bullet for
Bob Diamond,” said  Christopher Wheeler , a London-based banking
analyst at Mediobanca SpA. “They realized they needed to do
something, and Agius was chairman during the time they got fined
for -- but will it be enough?”  Succession Plan?  Diamond, who built up and ran the securities unit during
the period being probed by regulators, may keep his job because
he has no obvious successor, according to Chirantan Barua, an
analyst at Sanford Bernstein Research in London. None of the
bank’s largest shareholders have publicly called for Diamond’s
resignation so far.  “Barclays has become the poster child for this because
they have been the first to be assessed by the regulators on
both sides of the Atlantic,” Euan Stirling, who manages U.K.
stocks at Standard Life Investments, told the British
Broadcasting Corp.’s Today program. “This is going to spread
far and wide throughout the industry.”  Diamond, 60, his three top lieutenants, Chief Operating
Officer Jerry del Missier, Finance Director Chris Lucas and
corporate and investment banking chief  Rich Ricci  have already
forfeited their bonuses for this year following the fines.  Lazard Career  Agius joined Barclays after a 34-year career at Lazard
Ltd., where he had been chairman of the firm’s London unit.
There, he advised on banking takeovers including Halifax Group
Plc’s 2001 merger with  Bank of Scotland  to create HBOS Plc. As
non-executive chairman of BAA Plc, Agius helped the owner of
London’s Heathrow airport negotiate a higher takeover price from
Grupo Ferrovial SA in 2006.  He had already faced investor pressure when the lender
raised more than 5 billion pounds in 2008 from a group of funds
from  Abu Dhabi  and Qatar without giving existing shareholders
the opportunity to buy new stock. Shareholders including Legal &
General Group Plc complained at the time their pre-emption
rights had been ignored, and in protest about 16 percent of
investors opposed Agius’s re-election as chairman in April 2009.  He also had to apologize to shareholders for failing to
communicate the firm’s pay plans to investors clearly in April
after 27 percent of shareholders voted against Diamond’s 12
million-pound compensation package.  Agius also stepped down today as chairman of the British
Bankers’ Association, the industry lobby group that oversees
Libor.  Manipulated  Libor is determined by about 18 banks’ daily estimates of
how much it would cost them to borrow from one another for
different time frames and in different currencies. Because
banks’ submissions aren’t based on real trades, the potential
exists for the benchmark to be manipulated by traders.  At least a dozen firms, including Citigroup Inc., Royal
Bank of  Scotland  Group Plc and UBS AG, are being probed by
regulators worldwide for colluding to rig the  rate , the
benchmark for more than $360 trillion of securities, including
mortgages,  student loans  and swaps.  Barclays deliberately reported artificially low borrowing
costs at the height of the 2008 financial market turmoil after
discussing external perceptions about the bank’s strength with
regulators at the  Bank of England .  Barclays “believed mistakenly that they were operating
under an instruction from the Bank of England” to lower its
Libor submissions, according to Britain’s Financial Services
Authority. At that time, Barclays was concerned about how it was
being perceived due to its higher Libor submissions relative to
other banks whose reported borrowing costs helped set the rate.  ‘Misunderstanding’  The Bank of England didn’t instruct Barclays to lower its
Libor submissions during the phone call, the FSA said. Instead,
a “misunderstanding or miscommunication” occurred within
Barclays as the substance of the conversation was relayed down
the chain of command, the FSA said.  Paul Tucker , who was markets
director at the time and is now the central bank’s deputy
governor for financial stability, led the call, according to the
Bank of England.  The central bank “spoke directly to Bob Diamond and it was
Bob Diamond’s instructions to the traders,” said Jane Coffey,
head of equities at Royal London Asset Management, which owns
Barclays shares in its index-linked funds. “That
misunderstanding was through Bob Diamond.”  Barclays traders routinely coordinated with counterparts
from at least four other banks in an attempt to move interest
rate benchmarks, according to documents released on June 27 by
the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the U.S.  Justice
Department  and the U.K. Financial Services Authority.  Profit Motive  Derivatives traders requested the false submissions in the
Libor and Euribor setting process, as they were “motivated by
profit and sought to benefit Barclays’ trading positions,” the
FSA said.  Tyrie, the chairman of Parliament’s Treasury committee,
said Diamond will have to answer questions about who profited
from the firm’s false submissions and who at Barclays knew about
them, according to an interview with the  Daily Mail .  “There appear to have been at least two motives for the
rigging of Libor,” Tyrie was cited as saying in the interview.
“The first was to enable traders to make a profit. The second
was to support share prices at a crucial time -- and that is
something that might reasonably be considered the responsibility
of the relevant companies as a whole.”  The U.K. Serious Fraud Office said today it plans to decide
within a month whether to open a criminal investigation. The
U.S. Justice Department is conducting its own criminal probe
into the attempted manipulation of interbank offered rates.  FSA Chairman  Adair Turner  said yesterday the Barclays fine
shows regulator needs more powers to bring criminal charges.  “Further steps were made a few years ago to give us the
ability to bring criminal charges in particular areas of market
abuse, but they did not cover the Libor market,” Turner said in
an interview on the British Broadcasting Corp.’s “Andrew Marr
Show.” “We now have to look further and see whether we should
strengthen these powers considerably.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  