-- Biggest June Gain in Decade Pushes Stocks Past Bonds in 2012
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h ,   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-07-02T04:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/biggest-june-advance-in-decade-pushes-stocks-past-bonds-in-2012.html
The biggest June rally for  global
stocks  since 1999 is handing equity investors the year’s top
returns, beating the dollar, bonds and commodities.  The MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of shares in 45 nations
climbed 6 percent over the first six months, led by the U.S.,
where $1.1 trillion was added to share values. The gain is about
1.1 times the increase in global bonds and 1.8 times more than
the dollar after adjusting for daily swings, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Before the adjustment, fixed income climbed 2.8
percent, the U.S. currency added 1.7 percent and the S&P GSCI
Total Return index of commodities sank 7.2 percent.  In a year when billionaire  Wilbur Ross  predicted the U.S.
is on the “verge of a recession” and former Federal Reserve
Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said the economy “looks very
sluggish,” American companies anchored a rebound that pushed
the MSCI gauge up 5 percent in June. Analysts say earnings in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index will reach a record in 2012 amid
forecasts for a 2.2 percent expansion in gross domestic product,
the median prediction in a survey of 70 economists by Bloomberg.  “The U.S. is the best house in the neighborhood,” Burt White, who oversees $390 billion as chief investment officer at
LPL Financial Corp. in  Boston , said in a June 27 telephone
interview. “We believe that the recovery here is self-
sustainable. If you look outside of the United States, it’s a
different story. Europe is still in the middle of their crisis.
As concern rises, you begin to find a safer place.”  Correlated Increase  Bonds, stocks and the dollar gained simultaneously for the
first time since 2005, showing investors expect most economies
to sidestep Europe’s debt crisis and grow without spurring
inflation, according to  John Carey , who helps oversee about $220
billion at Pioneer Investments. Economists project worldwide GDP
will expand 2.3 percent this year and 2.8 percent in 2013,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “People may be buying different assets because of
confidence that the economy will continue expanding, even if at
a moderate pace,” Carey said in a telephone interview from
Boston on June 29. “Supporting that is the defensive move
toward assets perceived to be safer in this very volatile world.
You have both of those things going on and supporting the prices
of stocks, bonds and the dollar.”  Operation Twist  Bets on global central bank action to spur growth helped
lift stocks. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled the U.S. Fed will
probably add to its record stimulus should the economy fail to
make sufficient progress in creating jobs. The Fed extended its
$400 billion Operation Twist program last month and will swap
$267 billion in short-term securities with longer-term debt
through the end of 2012 to stimulate growth.  June’s rally came after the MSCI index tumbled 11 percent
over the previous two months. The gain since the start of the
year has restored  $2 billion  to global equity prices, led by
advances of 22 percent in the Philippine Stock Exchange Index,
9.5 percent in Mexico’s IPC Index and 16 percent in Denmark’s
Copenhagen 20 Index.  The  S&P 500 , about 14 times the size of those countries’
combined equity markets with $12 trillion in value, has
increased 9.5 percent this year and posted the largest first-
quarter  gain  since 1998. The index is projected to rise 2.6
percent to 1,398 by the end of the year, according to the
average from 13 Wall Street strategists tracked by Bloomberg.  Corporate Earnings  Profits (SPX)  in the gauge are forecast to reach a record $103.74
a share in 2012 and climb 13 percent in 2013, according to
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index, which fell 2.6 percent in the
second quarter, is up 5.7 percent for the year. The equity
benchmark may advance 4.8 percent to 263 by year-end, based on
forecasts from seven strategists. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP) 
has gained 4.5 percent in 2012, with dividends.  Investors sought refuge in the  U.S. dollar  during the
second quarter as European leaders struggled to fix a debt
crisis that threatens to force Greece out of the euro and is
engulfing Spain. The currency fell against all its major
counterparts last week after EU officials during a summit in
Brussels dropped the requirement governments get preferred-
creditor status on crisis loans to Spanish lenders.  Intercontinental Exchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, climbed 7.4 percent in the three months ending June
30. Economists’ estimate for U.S. GDP this year compares with
0.9 percent in Germany and projections for a 1.7 percent
contraction in Spain, according to median estimates in surveys
conducted by Bloomberg.  Dollar Strengthens  The  Dollar Index ’s gain was its best in the first half
since surging 10.5 percent in 2010 as Europe’s debt crisis
intensified. The gauge touched 83.5 on June 1, its highest level
since 2010.  Strategists have boosted their year-end forecast for the
index to 82.9 from 76.85 in early January, according to the
median estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The dollar didn’t start out the half year that well but
it’s finishing the half year relatively strongly,”  Alan Ruskin ,
global head of Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche
Bank AG in New York, said June 27 in a telephone interview.
“Growth is a little bit more resolute in the U.S.”  U.S. Treasuries, perceived as the safest of assets, gained
1.7 percent in the first half, led by a 4.1 percent return for
30-year bonds, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.
Yields on 10-year  U.S. government debt  have fallen to 1.65 after
declining to a record 1.44 percent on June 1.  The  interest rate  is forecast to increase to 2.1 percent by
the end of 2012, according to the median estimate of 65
strategists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Quality Assets  Treasury yields are “being driven by central banks, by
concerns in the  currency market  and the whole concept of, ‘do
you have enough high-quality assets on your balance sheets?’”
John Flahive, director of fixed income in Boston for BNY Mellon
Wealth Management, which oversees $176 billion in private-client
assets, said June 27 in a telephone interview.  The U.S. is one of only five major economies with credit-
default swaps on their debt trading at less than 100 basis
points, meaning they are viewed as almost risk free. A year ago,
eight Group of 10 nations fit that category, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Global Bonds  The 2.8 percent increase in Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Index, which tracks more than 19,600
securities with a market value of $43 trillion, compares with
1.73 percent during the same period in 2011. The gauge is up 1.6
percent in dollar terms in 2012. The measure rallied 5.9 percent
last year, its best performance since 2002.  Average yields have declined to 1.97 percent and fell as
low as 1.87 percent on June 1 from 2.24 percent at the end of
2011 and 2.68 percent in May 2011.  Portuguese bonds were the best performers among the 26
sovereign markets tracked by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies, rising 28.4 percent.
Hungary was second, with a 10.6 percent gain, followed by
Ireland’s 9.9 percent return.  Investment-grade corporate debt rose 4.9 percent in the
first half, while an index of high-yield bonds gained 7.1
percent. Speculative-grade debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and less than BBB- at S&P.  Bear Market  Commodities slipped into a  bear market  on June 21, a day
after the  Federal Reserve  held back from starting a third round
of debt buying known as quantitative easing. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials fell more than 20
percent from this year’s closing high on Feb. 24, the common
definition of a bear market. The gauge was down 13 percent in
the second quarter, the biggest decline since 2008.  Fifteen of the 24 raw materials in the S&P GSCI index
declined in the first half of 2012, led by coffee, cotton and
crude oil. Lead, sugar and nickel also dropped, while soybeans
and wheat futures rose. In the second quarter, gold fell 4
percent after the dollar gained and the Fed refrained from
further debt purchases.  “The slowing in global growth has a direct impact on
commodities,” Walter ‘Bucky’ Hellwig, who helps manage $17
billion of assets at BB&T Wealth Management in Birmingham,
Alabama, said in a telephone interview. “The fact that the U.S.
may need quantitative easing is itself an indication of slowing,
because we wouldn’t otherwise be having that discussion.”  Investors in May pulled the most money in eight months from
commodities, according to Barclays Plc. Outflows totaled $8.2
billion, the highest since a record $9.8 billion in September,
Barclays analysts  Suki Cooper ,  Kevin Norrish  and Amrita Sen said
in a report June 25.  Prices may recover in the third quarter as Europe is
“muddling through” its debt crisis while China’s growth picks
up, Barclays said in a separate report on June 21.  The S&P GSCI gauge rallied the most in more than three
years on June 29 after European leaders agreed to ease repayment
rules for emergency loans to Spanish banks and relax conditions
on help for Italy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  