-- Billionaire Catsimatidis Says Buy JPMorgan
-- B y   M a t t h e w   G .   M i l l e r
-- 2012-07-01T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/billionaire-catsimatidis-says-buy-jpmorgan-as-cuban-shuns-stocks.html
Stock markets can soar or falter in
an instant. One day the  European debt crisis  is receding, the
next day the region’s on the brink of disaster. Economic
statistics never give investors the whole picture.  In these jarring times, Bloomberg Markets magazine in its
August issue asked six billionaires for their advice on which
stocks might outperform the market in the next 12 months.  Their responses showed much disagreement: Peter Hargreaves,
the largest shareholder of Hargreaves Lansdown Plc, the U.K.’s
biggest retail broker, said water, health care and technology
stocks will outperform in the next 12 months.  Casino mogul Phil Ruffin, who controls the Treasure Island
Hotel Casino in Las Vegas, and  Mark Cuban , the owner of the
Dallas Mavericks basketball team, both say to avoid stocks
unless you have better information than the market.  “Pay off debt,” says Cuban. “Search online for the best
price on items your household needs. Pay local merchants in
cash, while still paying sales tax. You’ll never lose money or
sleep.”  John Catsimatidis , the owner of Red Apple Group Inc., which
counts a Pennsylvania oil refinery and the Gristedes grocery
store chain in  New York  City among its assets, says betting on
banking stocks like  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  will pay off.  “Mitt Romney will get elected, and banking will be
straightened out,” the billionaire says.  Following are profiles of the six billionaires and their
answers to the question, “What stocks -- or categories of stocks
-- do you think will outperform in the next 12 months? Why?”  Peter Hargreaves  Primary Asset: 32.2 percent stake in Hargreaves Lansdown Plc
Country of Citizenship: U.K.
Age: 65
Industry: Financial services  Tip: Three sectors may outperform during the next 12 months.  Health care: The developed world is getting older, while
living standards in the developing world are improving. Medical
discoveries and new technologies add to the excitement. The
industry’s cash flow and dividends are prodigious.  Water: With the population passing 7 billion, the need for
water won’t drop. Sales turn into cash flow and dividends very
quickly.  Technology:  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is sitting on $100 billion of  cash ;
Microsoft Corp. is still one of the big beasts of the tech
jungle;  Google Inc. (GOOG)  is dominant in search. Companies are using
technology to become more efficient. Consumers want the latest
gadget. I see no reason for these trends to end.  Denis O’Brien  Primary Asset: Sole owner of Kingston, Jamaica-based Digicel
Group Ltd.
Country of Citizenship: Ireland
Age: 54
Industry: Telecommunications  Tip:  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  has an excellent footprint in both
wealthy and big  emerging markets , such as India. Its 5 percent
dividend seems bulletproof. Its network is a platform for every
tech trend. The challenge is to capitalize, possibly by charging
fees to  Facebook Inc. (FB) , Google and others for access.  Bharti
Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  and  Millicom International Cellular SA (MIICF)  are also
undervalued.  Phil Ruffin  Primary Asset: Sole owner of the Treasure Island Hotel Casino in
Las Vegas.
Country of Citizenship: U.S.
Age: 76
Industry: Leisure  Tip: No stocks. Choose hard assets that have a cash flow and
appreciate with inflation. They should cost triple to replace.  John Catsimatidis  Primary Asset: Sole owner of New York-based Red Apple Group Inc.
Country of Citizenship: U.S.
Age: 63
Industry: Energy, real estate  Tip: JPMorgan --  Mitt Romney  will get elected, and banking will
be straightened out.  Vikas Oberoi  Primary Asset: 68.3 percent stake in Mumbai-based Oberoi Realty
Country of Citizenship: India
Age: 42
Industry: Real estate  Tip: Apple and Samsung Electronics Co. are among the world’s
innovators. Companies that focus on core operations, manage cash
flows and working capital and generate cash year over year will
outperform the general markets.  Mark Cuban  Primary Assets: Proceeds from sale of Broadcast.com Inc., Dallas
Mavericks
Country of Citizenship: U.S.
Age: 53
Industries: Technology, media, sports  Tip: Unless you know an industry or company better than
everyone, keep your money anywhere but the stock market. Pay off
debt. Search online for the best price on items your household
needs. Pay local merchants in cash, while still paying  sales
tax . You’ll never lose money or sleep. You’ll never care what
the market is doing. You’ll control your financial destiny.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net  