-- Billionaire Rinehart Willing to Buy Back GVK Shares
-- B y   S h a r a n g   L i m a y e   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2012-07-01T13:23:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/billionaire-rinehart-says-she-s-willing-to-buy-back-gvk-shares.html
Australian billionaire  Gina Rinehart ,
who sold a majority stake in her Hancock Prospecting Pty’s coal
projects to  India ’s GVK Group last year, said she is happy to
buy back shares in the venture if it needs funds.  “I have told GVK I would love to be in the project more,”
Rinehart told reporters on a visit to the southern city of
Hyderabad, where she meet officials of the group.  GVK would prefer to sell stakes to companies it plans to
supply coal to, she said. “They would like to bring in the
market. So think I just need to wait.”  The Hyderabad-based company plans to raise $3.5 billion by
December by selling stakes in a unit as well as in its
Australian mines and rail and port projects in Queensland state,
G.V. Sanjay Reddy, the vice chairman of GVK, said in June.  Foreign investors and banks have expressed an interest in
the coal project, in which GVK owns a 79 percent stake and
Hancock has 21 percent, said Rinehart, who is Asia’s richest
woman. Her fortune is estimated at $18.4 billion by the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  Revenue from the joint venture with GVK is important for
 Australia , Rinehart said.  Australia last month halted a federal environmental review
of the $10 billion  coal mine  in Queensland’s Galilee Basin
because of a disagreement with the state government.  GVK expects environmental approvals from Australia for the
project to come through this quarter, Reddy told reporters in
Hyderabad. The project is set to close in the first quarter of
2013, he said.  Authorities in Canberra halted the review of the project,
which includes a thermal coal mine, a 495-kilometer (308-mile)
railway line and expansion at the port of  Abbot Point , on
concern unchecked development of ports will damage the Great
Barrier Reef.  GVK has provided all information to win environmental
approval and expects to get the mining lease and all
environmental clearances by September, Reddy said previously.  Shares (GVKP)  of GVK Power & Infrastructure Ltd., the group’s
listed unit, closed at 15.35 rupees on June 29, up 4.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharang Limaye in Hyderabad at 
 slimaye@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  