-- BNP Said to Mull Plan for $50 Billion Spain-Italy Funding
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-07-02T15:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/bnp-said-to-mull-plan-for-eu40-billion-spain-italy-funding-gap.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , France’s largest bank,
may narrow a 40 billion-euro ($50 billion) funding gap in Spain
and Italy by moving some loans in those countries to deposit-
rich  Belgium , three people with knowledge of the matter said.  The bank is seeking to tighten the mismatch of loans and
deposits in European countries by the transfer of export-lending
and project-finance portfolios to Belgium, the people said,
citing Chief Financial Officer Lars Machenil at a meeting last
month in Paris. The bank also studied moving commodities-finance
assets to  Switzerland , they said, declining to be identified
because the discussions aren’t public.  “It isn’t easy to lend to Spanish companies without having
enough deposits locally,” said Christophe Nijdam, an analyst at
AlphaValue in Paris. “That’s why they’d look for funding
elsewhere.”  BNP Paribas is looking to address funding concerns in Spain
and Italy, where the Paris-based bank’s loans outweighing
deposits was among reasons cited by Moody’s Investors Service
for  downgrading  its  credit rating  last month. Transfers of loans
from elsewhere to Belgium might be capped at 20 billion euros
and at 10 billion Swiss francs ($10.4 billion) to Switzerland,
according to one of the people.  BNP Paribas, like other lenders in  Europe , is trying to
match assets and liabilities on a country basis as local bank
supervisors try to “trap” more capital and funding at a
national level, Morgan Stanley analysts including London-based
Huw Van Steenis wrote in a report on June 26.  Pulling Back  The four largest banks in France provide 150 billion euros
of parent funding for their European peripheral activities, the
report said. By transferring export-finance operations from
Spain and  Italy  to Belgium -- with its deposit surplus -- BNP
Paribas would be able to cut its parent funding.  The bank’s shares rose as much as 5.5 percent and were 3.9
percent higher at 31.53 euros as of 5:16 p.m. in Paris.  BNP Paribas spokesman Pascal Henisse declined to comment on
remarks made by CFO Machenil and on the 20 billion-euro estimate
for the bank’s funding shortfall in Spain, which two of the
people said almost matched the lender’s figure for Italy.  Henisse said in an e-mailed response to questions that
retail banking in Belgium, conducted through BNP Paribas’s
Fortis Bank SA/NV unit, already includes operations from
 Luxembourg ,  Poland ,  Turkey  and some specialized business.  “As part of its daily treasury activities Fortis Bank is
engaged in short-term lending and borrowing activities with BNP
Paribas group,” he said. Fortis Bank’s net liquidity to its
parent is “very limited,” and was less than 1 billion euros at
the end of last year, he said.  Funding Surplus  The attempt to back loans with deposits comes as Europe’s
almost three-year-old debt crisis gums up euro-area banks’
efforts to finance operations. BNP Paribas, which has cut its
sovereign debt holdings in the region’s troubled countries, is
now seeking to shrink cross-border funding of private loans in
those countries.  The bank, which took 3.2 billion euros in writedowns on
Greek government debt last year, has rushed to cut its
sovereign-debt holdings in most European countries except
Belgium since mid-2011 to help protect capital levels.  It cut its Italian government debt holdings by 43 percent
to 11.6 billion euros in the 10 months through April 30.  While as a group BNP Paribas says it has a funding surplus,
the bank has shortfalls between loans and deposits in some of
its main countries.  Italian Aid  At the end of March, BNP Paribas had a 51 billion-euro
surplus of stable funding on its cash balance sheet, helped by
rising medium- and long-term funding resources, according to its
website. Based on BNP Paribas figures, customer loans equaled
116 percent of client deposits, according to its May 4 results.  The French bank’s crossborder funding to its Italian unit
Banca Nazionale del Lavoro is down to 20 billion euros from
about 30 billion euros at the end of 2010, Chief Operating
Officer Francois Villeroy de Galhau said in a June 22 interview.
The bank plans to keep cutting the funding exposure “by
developing BNL’s own financings,” Villeroy said.  BNL’s commercial-banking loans exceeded deposits by 39.1
billion euros at the end of March, BNP’s website shows.  No aggregate data are available for BNP’s loans and
deposits in  Spain , where the lender doesn’t operate a consumer-
banking network.  Belgian Position  Meanwhile, BNP’s Belgian consumer-banking network had
deposits exceeding loans by 15.5 billion euros at the end of
March, according to its website.  BNP Paribas, which bought Fortis’s bank assets in Belgium
and Luxembourg in 2009, set up a corporate- and investment-
banking hub in Brussels for European structured finance, serving
Benelux, Northern Central Europe,  Greece  and Turkey for
corporate acquisition finance, export finance and project
finance, according to a Dec. 1, 2009 presentation to investors.  Brussels is home to BNP Paribas’s center for overseeing
“particular banking services at a European or global level for
both large and midsized international companies in their daily
banking activities,” the bank said Feb. 10, 2011 as it unveiled
“One Bank for Corporates in Europe.” The program provides
services to 160,000 European firms at 150 business centers in 23
nations including  France , Belgium, Italy, Spain and Switzerland.  Italy, Spain  BNP Paribas’s corporate-banking European services such as
cash management and trade finance are housed in Brussels. The
bank’s Belgian consumer-banking unit is the country’s largest
bank by deposits.  In Italy, BNP Paribas acquired BNL in 2006 for 9 billion
euros and it has more than 1,000 outlets. The bank helps Italian
companies operating abroad with services such as cash
management, trade finance and lending through “Italian desks”
active in BNP’s units in other countries.  In Spain, BNP Paribas’s corporate- and investment-banking
unit has 340 employees in  Madrid ,  Barcelona , A Coruna, Bilbao
and Valencia and 15 billion euros of assets, according to a
 Spanish presentation  on the bank’s website.  Among its Spanish activities, BNP also has a car-fleets
leasing operation, a private-banking business and owns 50
percent of mortgage-lender UCI, a venture with  Banco Santander
SA. (SAN)  UCI manages 11.8 billion euros in assets, the bank said.  Rating Cut  BNP Paribas was among 15 global banks -- including French
rivals  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  -- downgraded
by Moody’s on June 21. Moody’s action on BNP Paribas was partly
prompted by funding needs at the bank’s Rome-based unit BNL.  “Over time BNL may be required to reduce its use of
parental funding, which may in turn create pressure to reduce
its balance sheet,” the ratings company said.  At the end of 2011, BNL borrowed 5.2 billion euros from the
 European Central Bank  in its three-year loan program at 1
percent, according to BNL’s financial statements. BNP Paribas
declined to give details on BNL’s use of a second round of long-
term funds the ECB provided to the region’s lenders in February.  BNL had 32.2 billion euros of deposits at the end of March,
1.6 percent higher than a year earlier, BNP Paribas said May 4.
Loans at the Italian retail-banking unit were at 71.3 billion
euros by the end of the first quarter, almost unchanged from a
year earlier, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  