-- Boehner Says Obama's Health-Care Law Needs Full Repeal
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-07-01T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/boehner-says-obama-s-health-care-law-needs-full-repeal.html
House Speaker  John Boehner  vowed to
repeal President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul in full,
even as he described some conditions in the law as “sound.”  The  Supreme Court  upheld the core of Democrat Obama’s law
by a 5-4 majority on June 28. By declaring that Congress had the
power to make Americans obtain insurance or pay a penalty, the
justices gave Obama an election-year victory while insuring that
Republicans push the 2010 law to the front of the campaign.  “While the Court upheld it as constitutional, they
certainly didn’t say that it was a good law,” Boehner, an  Ohio
Republican , told CBS’s “Face the Nation” program in an
interview. “It has to be ripped out and we need to start over.
One step at a time,” he said.  The law, formally known as the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act and dubbed “Obamacare” by Republicans,
represents the biggest change to the U.S. health system since
Medicare and Medicaid were established in 1965. Republican
Presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  also vowed to work to repeal
it and Boehner today predicted it will be an issue in this
year’s elections.  Republicans, who control the House, said they would hold a
vote to repeal the act on July 11, though there’s no chance they
can succeed as long as Democrats control the Senate and the
president is there to veto a bill.  Boehner said he supported letting people under 26 stay on
their parents’ insurance when out of a job, one of the measures
included in the law. He said many of the provisions can be
replaced.  Spending Adjustments  “All of those provisions, popular provisions, many of them
very sound provisions, can in fact be done in a common sense
way,” he said. “But not in 2,700 pages that no one read.”  The nation’s spending programs will need to be adjusted to
reduce the federal debt, Boehner said. How it will be done is
“going to be the subject of a great debate as we get into this
election cycle and as we get into the post-election cycle,” he
said.  A poll released on the day of the decision shows the
country is evenly divided over the wisdom of the court’s
judgment.  The USAToday/Gallup poll showed 46 percent agreed with the
court’s ruling and 46 percent disagreed, with independent voters
splitting 45 percent in favor and 42 percent against the
decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  