-- Cameron Says He’s Not Opposed to U.K. Referendum on EU
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-07-02T12:13:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/cameron-says-he-s-not-opposed-to-british-referendum-on-europe.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said
he’s not opposed to a popular vote on Britain’s membership of
the European Union and that a plebiscite may be needed to gain
support for staying in the 27-nation bloc.  Cameron said in an article in the Sunday Telegraph
newspaper yesterday he was “not against referendums on  Europe ”
and that “for me, the two words ‘Europe’ and ‘referendum’ can
go together.”  The prime minister, who said Britain is better off in the
EU, is struggling to silence those in his  Conservative Party  who
want to give Britons a choice between staying in the bloc and
leaving it. Pressure for a vote is building as the quest to end
Europe’s debt turmoil propels the 17 countries that use the euro
toward closer political and fiscal union, leaving Britain
increasingly isolated.  “We don’t want a referendum now on being in or out of
Europe,” Foreign Secretary  William Hague  told BBC television’s
“Andrew Marr Show” yesterday, when asked about Cameron’s
comments. The prime minister “will set out in the autumn in
more detail our approach to this, but he’s explained we’re not
against referendums per se,” Hague said.  Former Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  called on the government
today to renegotiate membership of the EU and then hold an “in
or out” vote on the resulting agreement.  ‘No Terror’  “Life outside the EU holds no terror,” Fox said in a
speech in London. “It would, though, given our economic
interdependence, be to the advantage of all to create a more
stable and mutually agreed compromise.”  Euro-area leaders agreed in December on a blueprint for a
closer fiscal union, seeking to solve the region’s sovereign
debt crisis that has led to bailout requests from  Greece ,
 Portugal , Ireland,  Spain  and Cyprus.  Hague said the government would prefer to negotiate the
return of some powers transferred to the Brussels-based EU and
see how euro-area leaders’ measures for closer budgetary and
political integration play out before promising a plebiscite.  “We need to be absolutely clear about what we really want,
what we now have and the best way of getting what is best for
Britain,” Cameron said in his article. “We need to answer
those questions before jumping to questions about referendums.”  Still, “we will need to consider how best to get the full-
hearted support of the British people, whether it is in a
general election or in a referendum,” he said.  About half of U.K. exports go to EU countries and trade
with the bloc supports an estimated 3.5 million jobs.  ‘Don’t Agree’  “I don’t agree with those who say we should leave and
therefore want the earliest possible in/out referendum,”
Cameron said. “Leaving would not be in our country’s best
interests.”  Cameron’s comments threaten to increase divisions with his
coalition partners, the Liberal Democrats, as well as inside his
own party.  The debate about Britain’s EU membership is “horribly
irrelevant at a time of major upheaval,”  Vince Cable , the
Liberal Democrat business secretary, said in an interview on  Sky
News  television yesterday. “We need this to settle down, to
play a constructive role in helping the euro zone sort out its
problems and then we can decide whether anything is
fundamentally different that needs to be voted on.”  Still, Cameron may ultimately find he has little choice but
to offer Britain’s first popular vote on Europe since 1975 and
after almost four decades of EU membership.  Poll Findings  Fifty-one percent of Britons said they’d vote to leave the
EU if there was a referendum on membership, compared with 28
percent who said they’d vote to stay in, according to  YouGov Plc (YOU) 
poll of 1,683 adults carried out on May 17 and May 18.  “I don’t think we could, or should, sensibly take a
decision on an in or out referendum now,”  Douglas Alexander ,
the foreign affairs spokesman for the opposition  Labour Party ,
said in an interview on Sky News yesterday. “Until we have
clarity as to the character of post-crisis Europe, then I think
a lot of this speculation actually reflects the relative
positions of the Conservative Party leadership, rather than a
clear-eye view of Britain’s future.”  Sixty-eight percent of Britons said there should be a
referendum before any further transfer of powers from the U.K.
to the EU, according to an ICM Ltd. survey for the Sunday
Telegraph newspaper published yesterday. The poll of 2,029
adults on June 27 and June 28 found 38 percent would vote for
Labour if there was a general election tomorrow, while 31
percent would back the Conservatives. The Liberal Democrats got
17 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  