-- China’s Manufacturing Growth Weakens as New Orders Drop
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-02T08:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/china-june-manufacturing-pmi-50-2-vs-economists-est-49-9.html
Chinese manufacturing indexes
slipped to seven-month lows as overseas orders dropped, and
 South Korea  cut its estimate for exports this year,
underscoring risks to Asian economies from  Europe ’s debt
crisis.  A purchasing managers’ index for  China  fell to 48.2 in
June from 48.4 in May, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit said
today. A similar measure released by the government yesterday
also slid. South Korea yesterday lowered its export growth
forecast to 3.5 percent from 6.7 percent.  China, the world’s biggest exporter, may need to add
more stimulus to arrest an economic slowdown after the HSBC
report showed the steepest decline in overseas orders since
the global financial crisis. The nation’s weaker growth is
rippling through  Asia , with South Korea’s sales to China, its
largest market, failing to increase in the first 20 days of
June.  “It’s clear the slowdown of export growth as a result
of weakness in Europe and the U.S. continues to weigh on the
Chinese economy,” said Lu Ting, an economist  at Bank of
America Corp. in  Hong Kong . He sees “incremental measures
such as reserve-ratio cuts and easing lending restrictions to
stabilize growth.”  The  purchasing managers’ index  released yesterday by the
Beijing-based statistics bureau and China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing fell to 50.2 in June from 50.4 in
May.  Asian stocks headed for their longest winning streak
since March today after European leaders agreed on measures
to ease the region’s debt crisis and as a survey showed large
manufacturers in  Japan  became less pessimistic. The quarterly
Tankan index was at minus 1 in June from minus 4 in March,
the  Bank of Japan  said in  Tokyo .  Stocks Climb  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  added 0.3 percent in its
fourth day of gains as of 5 p.m. in Tokyo. Futures on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.2 percent.  HSBC and Markit said the latest Chinese data showed
inflation pressures waning, a slump in export orders, a lack
of domestic demand and a “modest” decline in the size of
the manufacturing workforce. In a contrasting report, SouFun
Holdings Ltd., China’s biggest real estate website owner,
said that new  home prices  rose for the first time in 10
months.  The June reading for China’s official PMI, based on
responses from 820 companies in 31 industries, compared with
the 49.9 median estimate of 24 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The dividing line between expansion and
contraction is 50. The HSBC report covers more than 400
companies.  Companies from Nike Inc. to McDonald’s Corp. and
Caterpillar Inc are feeling the effects of a cooling Chinese
economy. Nike said last week that it has too much inventory
there.  Economic Slide  While yesterday’s PMI reading was “slightly better than
consensus, the underlying trend still indicates a
deterioration in economic activity,” said Shen Jianguang,
Hong Kong-based chief Asia economist for Mizuho Securities
Asia Ltd. “Further monetary easing is warranted, with two
interest-rate cuts and reserve ratio cuts in the second half
increasingly likely.”  The People’s Bank of China lowered  interest rates  last
month for the first time in more than three years and has
reduced the amount of cash banks must set aside as reserves
three times, starting in November. The ratio stands at 20
percent for the biggest banks.  Shen estimates economic growth slid to 7.2 percent in
the second quarter from a year earlier while Bank of
America’s Lu says 7.5 percent. Gross domestic product
expanded 8.1 percent in the first three months of the year,
the fifth quarterly slowdown and the slowest pace in almost
three years.  Export Orders  The gauge of export orders in the federation’s index
contracted for the first time since January. A similar
measure in HSBC’s report fell by the most in more than three
years.  “Tumbling export orders point to headwinds to exports
in the third quarter, suggesting domestic demand needs to
pick up to stabilize growth,” Chang Jian, a Hong Kong-based
economist at  Barclays Capital , said yesterday.  South Korea’s exports rose 1.3 percent in June from a
year earlier, the Ministry of  Knowledge Economy  said
yesterday. That compared with the 0.5 percent median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey of analysts and an 11.1 percent
increase a year earlier. Shipments to the European Union fell
22.7 percent from a year earlier in the first 20 days of June
and sales to China were flat, the data showed.  India ’s PMI contrasts with readings from China to South
Korea as the nation’s manufacturing expanded at the fastest
pace in four months in June, a report from HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics showed. The  Reserve Bank  of India
reduced interest rates in April to boost a struggling economy.
Manufacturing makes up about 15 percent of  India’s economy ,
compared with compared with 28.1 percent in South Korea.  Around the world today, the EU’s statistics office will
say unemployment in the 17-nation euro area rose to 11.1
percent in May, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey. The jobless rate was 11 percent in
March and April, the highest on record.  In the U.S., manufacturing probably grew at a slower
pace in June, with the  Institute for Supply Management ’s
factory index showing a decline to 52.0, the lowest level in
eight months, according to economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bloomberg News in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  