-- Christie Uses Powers to Order N.J. Lawmakers Back to Work
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-07-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/chrisie-uses-powers-to-order-n-j-lawmakers-back-to-work.html
New Jersey  Governor Chris Christie
said he will use all the powers of his office, including
ordering the Legislature back into session tomorrow, to get
Democrats to approve a tax cut.  The first-term Republican said he will force lawmakers to
return to Trenton, where he will address a joint meeting of the
Senate and Assembly. He called the special session yesterday, a
day after he signed a $31.7 billion budget for the fiscal year
that begins today. The plan erased $361 million in spending
initiatives added by Democrats, who control the Legislature.  Democrats sent Christie a budget on June 25 that swapped
his proposed 10 percent income-tax cut for a property-tax
credit, and delayed it until midway through the fiscal year to
see if revenue meets his targets. The governor, 49, said
Democrats’ plan held “tax relief hostage” and called the
Senate budget committee chairman an “arrogant S.O.B.”  “As governor you have two bits of leverage: whatever power
or authority in the office you have and the bully pulpit,”
Christie said in a June 29 interview in his office. “I’m going
to use both of them to try and get that tax cut.”  The budget Christie proposed in February predicted revenue
growth of 7.2 percent, the second-most rosy projection after
 California , according to the  National Governors Association .
 Standard & Poor’s  in February called New Jersey’s plan
unbalanced and dependent on “optimistic” economic forecasts.  Summer Break  State Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff, a Christie
appointee, has since said revenue through June 2013 may be $700
million less than Christie’s target, while the Legislature’s
chief budget analyst has said the gap may be almost twice that.  Lawmakers typically recess in July and August. New Jersey’s
constitution allows governors to bring them back into session
“whenever in his opinion the public interest shall require.”
While Christie may convene the session, Senate President Stephen Sweeney and Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver, both Democrats,
control the agenda, under state law.  Christie, during the Statehouse interview, said he will
travel to “every corner of this state” in the coming months to
prod Democrats into releasing $183 million set aside in the
budget for tax credits.  “I only hope we come within a few points of hitting these
targets,” Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Sarlo , a
Democrat from Wood-Ridge, said of Christie’s revenue projections
in a June 29 statement. “If we don’t, we will need to come back
and make painful cuts.”  ‘More Theater’  Sarlo didn’t return a telephone call yesterday for comment
on Christie’s special session. Senator Loretta Weinberg, a
Democrat from Teaneck, said party members are talking and she
doesn’t know what the strategy will be. She called the
governor’s move “more theater for Christie.”  “What’s he going to do?” she said in a telephone
interview. “Lecture us?”  Christie, in his statement yesterday, said he sent a letter
to Sweeney and Oliver notifying them of the session.  “The budget, which contained billions of dollars in
spending, failed to address the single issue that strikes at the
heart of our shared interests, and our continued prosperity,”
Christie said in the letter. “Lowering the tax burden on every
New Jersey resident is a matter of unique and critical interest
that demands our immediate and full attention.”  Tax Credits  The Democrats stuck with Christie’s revenue and spending
levels in their budget, while placing conditions on the awarding
of tax cuts.  “We presented the governor with a budget committed to
providing middle class property tax relief, and regardless of
the governor’s political theatre, no tax breaks will even go
into effect until 2013,” Sweeney said in a statement yesterday.
“While the last thing anyone wants in the middle of a heat wave
is hot air coming from Trenton, we will be there.”  Christie signed the Democrats’ plan after vetoing items
ranging from tax credits for the working poor to technology
grants for private schools.  “This was not the kind of necessary spending we needed,
and I also wouldn’t recognize or certify some of the revenues
they put in because they were just complete fiction,” he said
in the interview, highlighting examples such as $10 million in
Medicaid fraud that Democrats counted on. “They just made up
the numbers they needed to get to and we were not going to
certify that kind of stuff.”  Rainy Day  Funds for the Democrats’ spending add-ons will be put into
reserve as a result of the vetoes. That will increase the
surplus to more than $600 million, almost double what Christie
proposed in January. That’s enough to support any tax cut and
provide a cushion in the event of a downturn, he said.  The governor, though, said in the interview that he’s sure
his “New Jersey Comeback” has begun, citing the addition of
17,600 jobs in May, the biggest gain in seven years.  The budget Christie signed maintains $347 million in
business tax-cuts, a near-record $1.03 billion pension payment
and $8.87 billion in funding for public schools, the highest
level in state history, he said.  Christie said he won’t sign Democratic legislation to
increase the  tax rate  on income of $1 million or more. He said
he hasn’t decided whether to strike down the bill or use a
“conditional veto” to rewrite it and send it back to lawmakers
as a tax cut.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  