-- Clinton Says Sanctions Pushing Iran Toward Negotiations
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-07-02T16:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/clinton-says-sanctions-pushing-iran-toward-negotiations.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said Iran will face increasing pressure from economic sanctions
aimed at its disputed nuclear program.  “The pressure track is our primary focus now, and we
believe that the economic sanctions are bringing Iran to the
table,” Clinton said in an interview with Bloomberg Radio in
Geneva on June 30. “They are going to continue to increase and
cause economic difficulties for them.”  Sanctions advocates in the Obama administration and U.S.
lawmakers have been weighing ways to tighten American sanctions.
Proposals under discussion include expanding the restrictions to
cover all Iranian financial institutions and trading companies,
sanctioning money-changers and alternative payment systems, and
banning trade and investment in all of Iran’s energy sector.  Three rounds of international talks since April have failed
to achieve a deal to satisfy international concern that  Iran  is
seeking the capability to build nuclear weapons. Those skeptical
about sanctions, such as Trita Parsi, president of the National
Iranian American Council, have questioned whether they are
effective in compelling regimes such as Iran’s to compromise.
They say in some cases economic penalties have strengthened
hardline factions.  Iran says its atomic program is for civilian energy and
medical research.  EU’s Embargo  A European Union embargo on Iranian oil imports took full
effect yesterday, three days after U.S. financial sanctions on
payments for Iranian oil.  Under a U.S. law enacted Dec. 31, foreign financial
institutions that settle oil trades with Iran’s central bank
would be cut off from the U.S. banking system. Clinton has
granted exemptions from sanctions to 20 nations that imported
Iranian crude, including China, India and  Japan , finding they
have “significantly reduced” their purchases.  The EU agreed in January to ban oil imports from Iran,
offering a five-month phase-in period for existing contracts to
let  member states  such as  Greece  find alternative supplies. An
exemption on tanker insurance restrictions for the worldwide
shipping industry also ran out yesterday.  Oil fell today after the  Institute for Supply Management 
reported that manufacturing in the U.S. contracted in June for
the first time in almost three years.  Crude Price  Crude for August delivery dropped $2.51, or 3 percent, to
$82.45 a barrel at 12:03 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Prices climbed $7.27 on June 29 to $84.96. The
percentage gain was the biggest since March 12, 2009. Oil is
down 17 percent this year.  Brent oil for August settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange fell $2, or 2 percent, to $95.80 a
barrel.  Futures pared losses earlier after Jam-e-Jam, a Tehran-
based news organization, reported that a member of the Iranian
parliament said he was working on legislation to block  oil
tankers  from passing through the  Strait of Hormuz , the transit
point for about 20 percent of globally traded oil, in
retaliation for international oil sanctions.  Iran, which depends on oil for more than half of its
government revenue, is losing billions of dollars from lost oil
sales, Clinton said last week. Iran’s oil exports this year have
plummeted to between 1.2 million and 1.8 million barrels a day,
down from 2.5 million barrels a day last year, according to the
 International Energy Agency  in Paris.  Oil importers now could circumvent the U.S. sanctions on
petroleum transactions with Iran’s central bank by finding
alternate ways to settle oil trades or using financial
institutions that have little or no exposure to the U.S. banking
system. Discussions in the administration and Congress are aimed
at tightening those loopholes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Geneva at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  