-- Clinton Calls Russia Backing Syria Plan Significant Step
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-07-02T14:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/clinton-calls-russia-backing-syria-plan-significant-step.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  called the decision by  Russia  and  China  to endorse a
United Nations plan for political transition in  Syria  “a
significant step forward,” pushing back against criticism that
the accord was too weak.  “There was every reason to believe that we would never get
the Russians and the Chinese on board,” she said in an
interview with Bloomberg Radio after the talks in Geneva on June
30. During more than six hours of contentious negotiations,
Clinton said she “didn’t know that we were going to be able to
get anything.”  Russia’s Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said the road map
doesn’t imply the ouster of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad,
and Clinton’s optimism wasn’t shared by Syrian opposition
groups, who also saw the outcome as providing leeway for Assad
to remain in power.  “Vague language” in the agreement “provides yet another
opportunity for the regime’s thugs to play their favorite game
in utilizing time in order to stop the popular Syrian revolution
and extinguish it with violence and massacres across Syria,”
the Local Coordination Committees, an opposition activist group,
said today on its website.  The Syrian National Council, the country’s main opposition
group, said in a statement on its Facebook page that “the
Geneva declaration lacks a clear mechanism for action and a
timetable for implementation and leaves the regime without
accountability.”  Government Reaction  Syria’s state-run Baath newspaper said in an editorial
today that the Geneva meeting couldn’t produce positive results
because it ignored that the Syrian government is “achieving
realistic and concrete results” toward change.  Russia and China agreed to back UN Special Envoy  Kofi Annan ’s plan to mediate an end to the 16-month conflict by
calling on the Syrian regime and opposition to establish a
transitional government chosen “by mutual consent.” Russia had
dug in against a U.S.-backed draft by Annan that said an accord
would “exclude from government those whose continued presence
and participation would undermine the credibility of the
transition and jeopardize stability and reconciliation.”  Clinton said in the interview that there was little
difference between the earlier draft and the final document’s
“strong language” giving both sides an effective veto over
anyone seen as an impediment to peace.  Bloody Hands  “I don’t think you have to be up on current events to know
that no member of the opposition is going to have Assad or
anyone else with blood on their hands on the transitional
body,” Clinton said.  Russia was averse to being seen as endorsing a coalition
against Assad, its closest ally in the  Middle East , and is
concerned about what would follow his ouster, according to
Clinton.  Asked if the U.S. would press the UN  Security Council  to
mandate sanctions or allow for military force to oust Assad,
Clinton said the first step is “to test whether it is possible
to mediate this very bloody, violent conflict.”  She said Annan has been empowered to go to the Syrian
capital of Damascus to call for a new governing body with the
full backing of the Security Council -- the U.S., U.K.,  France ,
Russia and China. The Arab League, the European Union and four
regional neighbors --  Turkey , Qatar,  Iraq  and  Kuwait  -- also
support the plan.  Going to Assad  Annan, a former UN secretary-general, “can now go to the
Assad regime and say, ‘We have to start talking about a
transition,’ and not be met with, ‘Well, we don’t have to do
that because Russia and China don’t agree,’” Clinton said.  If Annan reports back to the so-called Syria Action Group
that his mission has failed, “then I think we will have to act,
and I believe we will be building the case as to why the
Security Council should take such action,” she said.  The conflict in Syria began in March 2011, when the regime
violently suppressed peaceful protesters inspired by the anti-
authoritarian movements that toppled presidents in  Egypt ,
Tunisia and  Libya . Since then, an armed opposition has emerged,
and the conflict has claimed more than 10,000 lives, according
to the UN.  Syria has long served as Russia’s foothold in the Middle
East, home to its only military base in the region, the
strategically located Tartous naval facility. Russia also has
been Syria’s leading arms supplier.  Supplying Weapons  Clinton has criticized Russia for continuing to supply the
regime with weapons, while Lavrov has denounced U.S. allies
 Saudi Arabia  and Qatar for funneling arms to the opposition.  Asked whether the international community would support an
arms embargo on both sides, Clinton said that’s “one of the
issues that we’re going to have to be discussing further as we
go forward.” The U.S. “believes that ending the arming of the
Assad government is the first order of business.”  Clinton said she was heartened by the eventual agreement in
Geneva, which looked doubtful until the very end, because Annan
“now has a stronger hand to play than he did yesterday.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Geneva at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  