-- Congress Can Fix Health-Care Law Without Destroying It
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-01T22:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/congress-can-fix-health-care-law-without-destroying-it.html
One way the  U.S. Congress  could
respond to Thursday’s Supreme Court  ruling  on the individual
insurance mandate would be to yank the debate over health-care
policy back to square one. Simply overturn the law and start
from scratch, as the Republican chorus is calling for.  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  has promised a vote to
repeal the Affordable Care Act as soon as next week, and  Mitt Romney  has underlined his pledge, if elected president, to
dispense with it on his first day in office.  What an enormous waste of progress that would be, given
that in its two years of existence the  Affordable Care Act  has
already taken many sound steps toward improving health-care
quality, getting a grip on costs and arranging for significantly
more Americans to have insurance.  Republicans run the risk of looking like wreckers, not
problem-solvers -- not a good image in an election year, no
matter what polls say about support for the law. There is a
smarter course for them. They should assemble a list of ways to
tweak the act to make it work better -- and more to their
liking. President  Barack Obama  and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , after all, have  acknowledged   improvements  should be made.  Here’s what we would do. First, and most urgently, the
law’s requirements on creating state-based health-insurance
marketplaces need to be adjusted slightly to give states more
time to comply.  Many states  postponed or refused to set up these
 health-insurance exchanges , which are meant to help uninsured
individuals and small businesses find affordable coverage.
Insurers are to compete for business by offering a buffet of
plans, so long as they provide a minimum package of benefits and
charge the healthy and the sick the same price for comparable
coverage.  Both the states and insurers have a lot of work to do in
preparation for the Jan. 1, 2014, deadline when exchanges are
supposed to be up and running -- especially those states where
officials delayed acting because they assumed the  Supreme Court 
would invalidate the law. Even before 2014, other deadlines
loom. By January 2013, states are supposed to demonstrate that
they will be able to run a functional exchange. More important,
by October 2013 they must have set their eligibility criteria
and begin enrollment.  There’s no need to extend all the deadlines; that would
risk piling delay on top of delay, and postpone the ability of
some 24 million uninsured people to find affordable coverage.
But Congress could tell the Health and Human Services secretary
to extend the January 2013 deadline -- for demonstrating
exchange capability -- to states making a good-faith effort.  Down the road, Congress could fine-tune the substance of
the law, adding provisions to further address the basic
challenge of making health care more effective and efficient.  It could do more, for instance, to encourage “bundling” of
care -- that is, paying doctors and hospitals a flat rate for
addressing a patient’s specific problem, such as a heart-bypass
operation or a hip replacement, rather than billing separately
for each test and treatment. Medicare demonstrations of bundling
have suggested it can reduce the cost of medical services by 10
percent, according to an  analysis  released in January by the
 Congressional Budget Office .  Eventually, assuming this success continues, provisions
should be written into the health-care law to require bundling,
especially for expensive chronic conditions such as diabetes and
congestive heart failure.  Then there’s medical malpractice, an issue Republicans have
long argued must be addressed. The health-care law does almost
nothing to discourage providers from ordering too many tests and
treatments merely to protect themselves from being sued. Many
proposals have been made over the years to simply limit damages
in malpractice lawsuits. But there is a more effective approach
to help doctors and hospitals improve the care they provide:
Give some protection against lawsuits to those who follow
medical practices that have proved, in clinical studies, to work
well.  Such preferential treatment for “evidence-based” medicine
makes more sense than protections found in many state laws for
“customary” practice -- treating a patient as most other doctors
in their area would. Customary practice, if not based on the
best available medical knowledge, may be wasteful or even
dangerous. The health-care law provides for pilot projects to
test the evidence-based strategy. As with bundling, the law
could push harder for its widespread adoption.  Republicans may have different priorities for improving the
law. Instead of looking to overturn it, however, they should
find a way to work on health-care reform that builds on the
progress already made.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Europe’s banking deal ;
William D. Cohan on  Wall Street’s municipal-bond scam ;  Noah
Feldman  on the  constitutional right to lie ;  Albert Hunt  on the
 politics of the health-care ruling ;  Pankaj Mishra  on  redefining
the idea of Europe ; Robert Boxwell on  Japan ’s  inadequate fight
against insider trading ; Robert Frichtel on rules for  medical
marijuana and driving .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 