-- David Jones Says A$1.65 Billion Takeover Bid Withdrawn
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-07-02T09:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/david-jones-requests-details-from-eb-private-equity-on-takeover.html
David Jones Ltd. (DJS) ,  Australia ’s second-
largest department store owner, said a U.K. private equity fund
withdrew its A$1.65 billion ($1.69 billion) bid, causing  shares 
to reverse most of its biggest gain in 17 years.  EB Private Equity withdrew the bid today, stating that
“recent publicity around its proposal has made it difficult to
proceed,” the Sydney-based David Jones said in a statement. The
stock  declined  the most since March 21 to A$2.33 at the close of
Sydney trading, erasing 79 percent of the previous session’s
gain. The S&P/ASX 200 index rose 0.9 percent.  Analysts at Nomura Holdings Inc. and Macquarie Group Ltd.
began questioning the credibility of the offer soon after it was
announced on Friday.  David Jones  has become the subject of
takeover speculation after a 47 percent share slump last year
and as slowing consumer spending prompted it to  forecast  its
smallest annual profit in six years.  “It all looked very strange to me and it still looks very
strange,” Tony Wilson, an analyst at Evans & Partners in
 Melbourne  who  rates  David Jones negative, said by phone. The
board “have a duty to disclose but do they have to disclose
their doubts as well?” he said.  Announcements regarding the proposed bid were made to
ensure that “there was not likely to be information in the
public domain that would lead to trading based on a false
market,” David Jones said in a statement to the Australian
stock exchange after Sydney trading had closed today. The
company had not deemed as material approaches from EB that
started with a letter received May 28, the company said in
response to questions from the exchange.  ‘Be Careful’  “We made an announcement because of the risk that the
media was going to run the story,” Helen Karlis, a Sydney-based
spokeswoman for David Jones, said by phone today prior to this
evening’s statement. “Telling  shareholders  to act cautiously
was a signal to the market to please be careful.”  Andre Khoury, a Sydney-based spokesman for the  Australian
Securities and Investments Commission , the nation’s markets
regulator, declined to comment when asked whether it was
investigating the circumstances around the bid.  EB Private Equity had said it would lead a group providing
$850 million in equity, the retailer said in a June 29
statement. The offer would also include $450 million of debt
from a syndicate of banks and investors, and $450 million in
residual equity for existing David Jones shareholders, the
retailer said in the statement last week.  There wasn’t enough information available about EB Private
Equity for David Jones to evaluate the approach, the company
said. The company isn’t listed on the U.K.’s register of
companies.  Share Premium  A bid of A$1.65 billion valued the company’s 529 million
 shares  at A$3.12 each, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
That was a premium of 38 percent to the stock’s June 28 close.  Disclosure rules under Australian corporate law meant that
David Jones was obliged to announce the bid after details
emerged on a U.K. blog, Simon Marais, chairman of shareholder
 Allan Gray  Pty., said by phone from Sydney. The company’s
statements expressed doubts about the offer, he said.  “What more can they say?,” Marais said. “You can’t say:
‘I don’t think it’s real.’ That’s likely to upset a potential
bidder if you say things like that.”  Allan Gray is the retailer’s third-largest shareholder with
a 5 percent stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Credibility Questions  In a note June 29, Nick Berry, a Sydney-based analyst at
Nomura, questioned whether the offer was a “bid or faux-bid”
and said the bank was “not so sure” the approach was genuine.  “The credibility of this offer may be lacking,” Sydney-
based Macquarie analyst Rob Blythe wrote the same day.  EB’s offer is a “good bid” and the company would like to
“engage further” with David Jones, EB Chairman John Edgar said
yesterday, according to an interview with the Australian
newspaper published today.  A telephone message left outside office hours at the
registered address of EB Private Equity’s website wasn’t
immediately returned. A separate message left on a mobile phone
number listed in regulatory filings as a contact for one of
Edgar’s other companies wasn’t returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  