-- De Jonge Takes One-Stroke Lead Over Woods After AT&T Third Round
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-07-01T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/de-jonge-takes-one-stroke-lead-over-woods-after-at-t-third-round.html
Brendon de Jonge takes a one-stroke
lead over  Tiger Woods  into the final day of the AT&T National,
after yesterday’s round was played without no fans after a
severe storm toppled trees, shredded tents and littered the
course with debris.  De Jonge finished 54 holes at 7-under 206 after carding a
2-under 69 in the second round at the Congressional Country Club
in Bethesda,  Maryland . Yesterday’s third round was delayed by
nearly six hours as groundskeepers cleaned up following the
storm.  Spectators will be allowed to return to the course today
when the players will again go off the first and 10th tees in
groups of three, the PGA said on its website. The first tee time
will be at 11 a.m. local time with the final group of de Jonge,
Bo  Van Pelt  and Woods teeing off at 1:15 p.m.  Woods, who won the tournament in 2009, the last time it was
played at Congressional, posted a 4-under 67 to share second
place with Van Pelt and Seung-Yul Noh. He used just five putts
in the first six holes, which including a chip-in birdie at the
sixth.  “Today for me was a day I was five back, try to make a run
and get myself in the tournament, and I was able to do that,”
Woods told reporters.  De Jonge said the field had to get accustomed to playing
without applause from a crowd.  “It was actually really strange out there, took a little
while to get used to,” De Jonge told reporters. “It’s nice to
have people out there and get the buzz and kind of feed off
adrenaline.”  The aftermath of the storm, which had been accompanied by
rain and 70 mile-per-hour (113 kph) winds, created an
environment more conducive to the game, De Jonge said.  “The golf course was definitely a little bit softer,” De
Jonge said. “They set it up a little bit easier for you, as
well. They had a bunch of tees forward obviously trying to get
us through today. I would say this is definitely the easiest
we’ve played the course for the first three rounds.”  Second-round leader  Hunter Mahan  hit a 2-over 73 to finish
with Billy Hurley III at 5-under 208. Jhonattan Vegas is one
stroke back.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  