-- Dell Said to Be Near Buying Quest to Gain Data Software
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-07-02T13:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/dell-said-to-be-near-acquiring-quest-to-add-data-center-software.html
(Corrects timing of announcement in fourth paragraph.)  Dell Inc. (DELL)  is near an agreement to buy
 Quest Software Inc. (QSFT) , a maker of programs to manage corporate
computer systems, prevailing in a bidding contest with Insight
Venture Partners, people with knowledge of the matter said.  The acquisition may be announced as soon as today, said the
people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks
are private.  Aliso Viejo , California-based Quest said last week
that it received an offer for $27.50 a share, or about $2.32
billion, from a company that it didn’t identify. Dell is that
company, the people said.  The purchase would cap a months-long bidding war for Quest
and fits with Dell’s aim to add technology that helps customers
outfit data centers for handling storage and cloud computing.
Quest’s software lets companies administer databases and
servers, as well as back up information and recover lost data.  Several companies made offers for Quest since it said on
March 9 that it had agreed to be bought by Insight Venture
Partners, a private equity firm, for about $2 billion, or $23 a
share. Earlier talks between Dell and Quest about an acquisition
broke down, a person with knowledge of the matter said June 1.  Software Takeovers  Quest shares  rose 0.2 percent to $27.81 on June 29 and have
surged 50 percent this year amid speculation that another
company might top Insight’s earlier bid. Dell, the world’s
third-largest PC maker, climbed 4.7 percent to $12.51 on June
29. In German trading today, the stock rose 1.8 percent to the
equivalent of $12.65 as of 11:51 a.m. in Frankfurt.  Kelly McGinnis, a spokeswoman for Dell, didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment. Quest spokesman  Tom Johnson 
declined to comment.  There have been 530 takeovers of U.S. software companies
announced so far this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, on pace to break the record 923 transactions set last
year. The largest is  SAP AG (SAP) ’s planned $4.3 billion acquisition
of Sunnyvale, California-based  Ariba Inc. (ARBA) , announced in May.  Dell told analysts at a June 13 meeting that it plans to
use  deals  to boost revenue from data-center hardware, software
and services by 45 percent to $27.5 billion by fiscal 2016,
reducing the company’s reliance on the slow-growing desktop and
notebook computer businesses.  Takeover Fight  The last time Dell engaged in a public takeover fight was
in 2010, when it lost storage company 3Par Inc. to  Hewlett-
Packard Co. (HPQ) , which bought it for $2.35 billion. That 18-day
bidding contest tripled 3Par’s market value.  Michael Dell , founder of the  Round Rock , Texas-based
company, told Bloomberg News last year that Hewlett-Packard
overpaid for 3Par, and he made the right decision in dropping
out of the process.  Insight first invested in Quest in 1999 and was the
company’s largest institutional investor at the time of its IPO
that year, according to a regulatory  filing  at the time. Insight
co-founder Jerry Murdock also served on Quest’s board of
directors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  