-- Dish Drop ‘Mad Men’ for ‘Bikini Barbershop’ in AMC Feud
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-07-01T05:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/dish-drop-mad-men-for-bikini-barbershop-in-amc-feud.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , following through
on a threat to remove  AMC Networks Inc. (AMCX) ’s channels, replaced
“Mad Men,” “The Walking Dead” and other AMC programs with
movies and shows from HDNet.  AMC, IFC and We TV were dropped from Dish, the second-
largest U.S. satellite-TV provider, New York-based AMC Networks
said today in a statement.  Dish said last week it would replace AMC with commercial-
free movies from HDNet. HDNet’s main channel, with shows such as
“Bikini Barbershop” and “Drinking Made Easy,” will stand in
for IFC, the independent film channel. The Style channel will
replace We TV, a network aimed at women.  Dish threatened to drop the channels in May, saying AMC was
charging too much for shows with limited viewership. AMC
contends that Dish is cutting off its networks as a response to
litigation stemming from a 2008 lawsuit that may cost the
satellite company $2.5 billion.  “Dish has not discussed rates with us at all,” AMC said
in today’s statement. "Dish customers have lost some of their
favorite shows because of an unrelated lawsuit which has nothing
at all to do with our programming.’’  Losing AMC would mean Dish’s 14 million viewers will miss
the fifth season of “Breaking Bad,” which has its season
premiere on July 15.  AMC is “not a good value for our customers,”   Dave Shull ,
senior vice president of programming for Englewood, Colorado-
based Dish, said last week. “AMC Networks requires us to carry
low-rated channels like IFC and We to access a few popular AMC
shows.”  AT&T Talks  Separately, AMC said it continues to negotiate a renewal
of its agreement with  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s U-verse service that expired
at midnight last night. U-verse has about 4 million video
customers.  “We are in ongoing discussions with AT&T about a new
agreement and will update our viewers as soon as possible,” AMC
said.  AT&T said last week that AMC is asking for “nearly
double” what other competitors pay for its networks.  AMC fell 1.3 percent to $35.55 on June 29 in  New York . The
shares have lost 5.4 percent this year. Dish added 3.6 percent
to $28.55 and AT&T, based in  Dallas , rose 0.8 percent to $35.66.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  