-- Dubai Shares Gain on Europe Plan; Kuwait Rises on Cabinet Shift
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-07-01T12:52:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/dubai-shares-lead-gains-in-persian-gulf-on-oil-s-rally-europe.html
Dubai’s shares advanced the most in
three weeks, helping gains in Persian Gulf stock markets, after
oil surged on optimism that Europe’s debt crisis may be
contained, boosting the appeal for riskier assets.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , developer of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, climbed 1.8 percent.  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB) , the
United Arab Emirates’ biggest bank complying with Islamic
banking rules, rose the most since May. Dubai’s benchmark  DFM
General Index (DFMGI)  increased 0.7 percent, the most since June 11, to
1,462.52 at the 2 p.m. close in the emirate. The gauge slumped
12 percent in the second quarter. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of
the Persian Gulf region’s top 200 equities rose 0.1 percent,
while Kuwait’s shares advanced as the resignation of the
nation’s cabinet was accepted.  Oil for August delivery surged 9.4 percent on June 29 to
$84.96 a barrel in New York after European leaders agreed to
ease repayment rules for emergency loans to Spanish banks and
relax conditions on help for Italy. It was the biggest increase
since March 2009. Gulf Arab oil exporters, including the U.A.E.
and  Saudi Arabia (SABIC) , supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  “After such an aggressive move in global markets and oil,
regional markets have to react,” said Chahir Hosni, equity
sales manager at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE in Dubai. “Things will
improve maybe for this week, but I wouldn’t get carried away as
we are heading into summer and Ramadan where things are expected
to be quiet.”  U.S. Shares Gain  U.S. markets advanced as economic reports during the week
showed home sales and orders for durable goods rebounded while
consumer spending stalled and confidence among Americans
declined to the lowest level this year. The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  last
week increased 2 percent and the  STOXX Europe 600 (SXXP)  climbed 1.9
percent in the period.  Dubai, the second-largest of seven emirates that make up
the U.A.E., relies on trade, tourism and property for growth.
Economic growth may reach as much as 5 percent in 2012 from 3.4
percent last year,  Al Ittihad  reported last month, citing the
director general of the emirate’s chamber of commerce and
industry.  About 87 million shares traded in Dubai today, compared
with a 12-month daily average of 137 million shares. The Islamic
holy month of Ramadan, when Muslims fast from sunrise to sunset
and business slows, will start later in July. Emaar climbed the
most since June 5 to 2.85 dirhams. Dubai Islamic advanced 1.1
percent, the most since May 29, to 1.87 dirhams.  Kuwait Cabinet Resigns  Oil may rise this week after the European Union imposes new
sanctions on crude purchases from Iran, the second biggest
producer in OPEC, according to 16 of 42 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. The EU agreed to ban the purchase, transportation,
financing and insurance of Iranian oil beginning today over
concerns about Iran’s nuclear program. The Islamic republic says
its atomic work is peaceful.  Elsewhere in the Gulf region, Kuwait’s  gauge  rallied 1.1
percent. The country’s Emir Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmad Al-Sabah
accepted the resignation of the cabinet, which will be a
caretaker government until a new cabinet is appointed, the
official Kuwait News Agency reported today.  Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  climbed 1 percent and  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX
General Index (ADSMI)  gained 0.5 percent.Bahrain’s  gauge  declined 0.6
percent and Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  fell 0.1
percent after yesterday rising 1.9 percent. Oman’s gauge fell
0.5 percent. Egypt’s stock market is closed for a holiday.  In Israel, the benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  surged 2.3 percent at
3:33 p.m. in  Tel Aviv  as the government approved a plan to raise
the 2013 budget deficit target and set a gradually decreasing
limit through 2019.  Delek Group Ltd. (DLEKG) , controlled by billionaire Isaac Tshuva,
surged the most in more than a month, rising 4.9 percent to
597.9 shekels, after the company filed an offer to purchase
shares it doesn’t already own in  Delek Energy Systems Ltd. (DLEN)   The yield on the 5.5 percent benchmark Mimshal Shiklit
government bonds due January 2022 fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 4.31 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  