-- Duchamp’s Urinal Has Nothing on Boetti’s Steamer: Review
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-07-01T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/duchamp-s-urinal-has-nothing-on-boettie-s-steamer-review.html
In his Conceptual, travel artwork
“Viaggi postali (Postal Voyages)” (1969-70),  Alighiero Boetti ,
using imaginary addresses, mailed 25 letters to 25 friends,
family members and artists, including his mentor and hero Marcel Duchamp.  When a letter was returned, Boetti sealed it in a new
envelope, readdressed and forwarded it to the same recipient at
a new nonexistent place around the globe.  There were themes to these postal voyages. One letter was
sent only to places that began with the letter “Z.” Another
went only to cities named after saints.  Miraculously, all of the misaddressed envelopes were
returned to the artist. “Viaggi postali” says more about the
quality of worldwide postal service circa 1970 than about art,
which is typical of  “Alighiero Boetti: Game Plan,” the
uninspiring retrospective that opened yesterday at the Museum of
 Modern Art .  The chronological exhibition, which begins on the sixth
floor and continues in the Donald B. and Catherine C. Marron
Atrium on MoMA’s second floor, is a handsome presentation of the
Italian artist’s quirky work, much of which is not much to look
at on its own.  There, along with the returned envelopes of “Viaggi
postali,” you will encounter “Scala” (1966), a standing,
triangular wooden ladder rendered useless by strips of wood
nailed to its steps; “Lampada annual (Annual Lamp)” (1966), in
which a wooden box housing a light bulb turns on randomly once a
year for 11 seconds; and Boetti’s last work, “Autoritratto
(Self-Portrait)” (1993-99).  Hose, Head  Placed in MoMA’s sculpture garden, “Autoritratto” is a
life-size bronze cast of the artist in suit and tie holding a
hose above his head. The hose continually sprays water onto his
heated cranium, which emits a cloud of steam.  The fountain-portrait (in homage to Duchamp) is sometimes
referred to as “Mi fume il mio cervello” (My brain is
smoking).  This banal mix of academic realism, prankish pun and one-
liner is supposed to illumine one of Boetti’s chief
philosophical concerns as an artist: the importance of
“thought” or “concept” to his Conceptual art.  Like most of his work, “Autoritratto” is a big idea with
a small visual payoff.  Found Objects  Boetti (1940-94) was born in Turin and was a member of Arte
Povera (poor art), a radical late-1960s Italian group that
worked primarily with found objects and mass-produced materials,
often arranged in large numbers and exhibited in unorthodox
places.  Like Duchamp, Boetti took an anti-classical stance that did
not regard the artist’s unique, authorial hand as significant or
even desirable. He preferred ready-made objects to sculptures;
disorder over order; serendipity, happy accidents and chance to
aesthetics, metaphor and structure.  He also embraced laziness, choosing to let others (such as
the postal service) do the heavy lifting.  Boetti believed that time is the “only thing that is
really magical.” He was on a playful quest to “waste time.”
Apparently, however, he preferred to waste others’ time more
than his own.  The execution of much of his oeuvre he farmed out to
children, art students, Afghan women and his partner and
collaborator, Annemarie Sauzeau Boetti.  These outsourced works include enormous monochrome
ballpoint pen drawings resembling dense, trembling chicken
scratch; and large embroidered maps -- charming in a naive,
folk-art kind of way -- in which oceans are black, pink, green
or blue and nations are made up from the flags of their
countries.  ‘Perfect Works’  In the catalog essay accompanying the exhibition, we are
told that these maps, which were made by Afghan women, represent
“perfect works” because “they required nothing of him: he chose
nothing (the design already existed) and he did nothing (they
were executed by others) ... Here, he seems to have achieved the
ideal, ‘a glorious and philosophical form of idleness.’”  We should not be surprised, then, that at MoMA the most
beautiful artworks by Boetti, such as “L’albero dele ore (Tree
of Hours)” (1979) -- Annemarie Sauzeau Boetti’s white-on-white
tapestry visually marking the quarter hour as chimed by a
neighborhood church bell -- are not really by Alighiero Boetti
at all.  “Alighiero Boetti: Game Plan” runs through Oct. 1 at the
 Museum of Modern Art , 11 W. 53rd St. Information: +1-212-708-
9400;  http://www.moma.org .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Warwick
Thompson  on London theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund in  New York  at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 