-- The Idea of Europe Needs to Catch Up With Reality
-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 2012-07-01T22:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/the-idea-of-europe-needs-to-catch-up-with-reality.html
Recently, against the sound of
dominoes falling across the  euro zone , I participated in a BBC
radio  discussion  about the “Idea of  Europe ”: Specifically, could
the notion of the continent as the home of democracy and reason
survive the economic crises convulsing one country after
another?  Oddly, my fellow participants, including  Slavoj Zizek , who
identified himself as a “radical leftist,” seemed to assume the
existence of one “idea” of Europe -- as distinct from many ideas
of Europe that include, in Asian eyes at least, imperialism as
well as liberal democracy, racial and religious intolerance as
well as individual liberties.  For what we think of Europe is shaped by our particular
historical and political circumstances. The Indian economist
Amartya Sen, among others, has argued convincingly for
traditions of democracy and reason in non-Western societies.  The idea of Europe is periodically revised within the
continent itself. Wishing to pin down Muslims as Europe’s
unassimilable “other,” the former French president  Nicolas Sarkozy  claimed that  France ’s roots were “essentially Christian”
-- as close to blasphemy as you can get in a country that
purports to be the product of the secular Enlightenment.  Visiting Alhambra  Walking through the palaces and gardens of the  Alhambra  a
few days after the BBC discussion, I marveled at the
thoroughness with which a Europe determined to identify itself
as Christian had expunged the long centuries of Islam from its
past.  Spain ’s greatest modern thinkers, Jose Ortega y Gasset and
 Miguel de Unamuno , presented Islam as an unfortunate irruption
in the history of Europe, vigorously denying any Arab
contributions to European culture.  This decontaminated idea of European culture barely existed
before the invention of modern historiography in the 19th
century; there was Christendom, but no Europe. It was the
scholarly discovery of the classical past -- Athens and Greece -
- combined with the political and philosophical breakthroughs of
the Enlightenment and the French Revolution that first made
Europe appear the originator of such virtues as modern democracy
and scientific rationality.  The expansion of Spanish and Portuguese, and then British,
French and Dutch empires across  Asia ,  Africa  and  Latin America 
seemed to attest European claims to moral, intellectual and
political pre-eminence.  Such self-perceptions did not survive Europe’s fratricidal
20th century. Liberal democracy was under stress in Europe for
much of the century’s first half; the mechanized slaughter of an
extraordinarily gifted and fruitful minority made scientific
rationality itself seem dubious.  By diminishing Europe’s power, the two wars also destroyed
its claims to moral leadership. That role passed, along with
many thankless imperial duties, to the U.S.  The Mexican poet and thinker Octavio Paz could write in the
late 1940s, “Europe, once a storehouse of ready-to-use ideas,
now lives as we do, from day to day. Strictly speaking, the
modern world no longer possesses any ideas.” Jean-Paul Sartre
was harsher. Europe, he claimed, “is springing leaks everywhere.
What then has happened? It is simply that in the past we made
history and now it is being made of us.”  Unknown to Paz and Sartre, Europe, assisted by the U.S.,
was embarking upon a remarkable period of political and
socioeconomic reconstruction.  Taking Liberties  To be sure, the idea of Europe we talk about so
confidently, as the guarantor of individual liberty, is a post-
World War II construct. It is an ideological notion, outlined
vis-a-vis the “free” world’s common enemy in the  Cold War ,
totalitarian communism.  Nevertheless, it has a great deal of truth in it. Spain and
 Portugal  were far from democracy and closer to Third World
despotisms until the 1970s. Parts of rural  Italy , Spain and
Portugal actually looked like the Third World. But by the 1990s
the rights of women, factory workers and sexual minorities were
never as secure as in the U.K., France,  Germany , the Netherlands
and the Scandinavian countries.  Those of us in war-scarred parts of Asia could only marvel
at the peace between Germany and France after centuries of
bloody conflict. The fall of the  Berlin Wall , the reunification
of Germany and the establishment of the  European Union  seemed a
major leap forward. The EU seemed a logical model, for instance,
for South Asia, whose fractious new nation-states had sundered
centuries-old cultural and economic links between the
subcontinent’s different regions.  We didn’t know then about the rickety basis for Europe’s
economic union, created by unelected technocrats and enforced by
faceless bondholders. We were deceived, too, by Europe’s
apparent prosperity, and failed to enquire into its sources: The
streets below the Alhambra, I discovered last week, have many
more credit-lavishing and now imperiled banks than churches.  In any case, the rise or fall of the euro should not
obscure the continent’s longstanding political and moral
challenge: how to accommodate social and cultural difference.  Europe’s record on this score was extremely poor well
before the atrocities of the 20th century. Its most eager
imitators in Asia -- Anglophile Indians or Francophile
Vietnamese -- quickly found themselves up against racial and
religious barriers. Permanent inferiority seemed the fate of
even the Japanese, the quickest and keenest among Asians to
adopt the ostensibly superior and rational laws and institutions
of European civilization. More recently, the Turks have known
the bitter failure of non-Europeans trying to break into
Europe’s racially exclusive club.  Minority Report  But how will Europe cope with the many non-Western
minorities it already contains, many of these originally brought
as cheap labor from countries it once ruled? It has been
bewildering, and dispiriting, to see not only right-wing
extremists but also many liberal politicians and intellectuals
in Europe flirt with a majoritarian nationalism, recoiling from
what by Indian standards at least seems an extremely limited
experience of social diversity and political extremism.  Mixed populations are of course inevitable in the West,
given the declining birth rates in many European countries, not
to mention the need for cheap labor. And political elites will
have to find new ways to deal with altered demography.  But they have been locked into a game of political one-
upmanship: Who can get more votes by stoking anti-immigrant
anxieties? Thus the platitudinous rhetoric -- from  Angela Merkel 
to  David Cameron  -- about various European and/or national
“values,” which when clearly defined -- fair-play, decency,
tolerance -- turn out to be no different from the values upheld
by most people anywhere in the world.  As the 1920 and 1930s showed dismally, economic crises are
a minority-bashing time. European societies will be judged once
more on how they treat their weakest members -- whether
minorities will yet again be made scapegoats for national
humiliation and individual failure.  What then of the singular idea of Europe? Is there one?
Certainly, as the continent lurches from one bailout to another,
and moves, as Sartre predicted, from being the maker of history
to being its object, its exceptionalism seems no less an
exaggeration as the one on the Mercator map that made the
continent look much bigger than it is.  The provincializing of Europe is well under way. And
Octavio Paz may have been right, after all. Like the rest of us,
Europe will have to live from day to day, pragmatically
improvising temporary solutions to what seem like permanent
problems.  ( Pankaj Mishra , whose new book, “From the Ruins of Empire:
The Revolt Against the West and the Remaking of Asia,” will be
published in August, is a Bloomberg View columnist, based in
 London  and Mashobra,  India . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on ways to  strengthen the
health-care-reform law  and on  Europe’s banking deal ; William D.
Cohan on  Wall Street’s municipal-bond scam ;  Noah Feldman  on the
 constitutional right to lie ;  Albert Hunt  on the  politics of the
health-care ruling ; Robert Boxwell on Japan’s  inadequate fight
against insider trading ; Robert Frichtel on rules for  medical
marijuana and driving .  To contact the writer of this article:
Pankaj Mishra at  pmashobra@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 