-- Ecuador Economy Expanded at Slowest Pace in Eight Quarters
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2012-07-01T17:12:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/ecuador-economy-expanded-at-slowest-pace-in-eight-quarters-1-.html
Ecuador ’s economy expanded at its
slowest pace in eight quarters in the first three months of the
year, as construction and agriculture output slumped.  Gross domestic product rose 0.7 percent in the first
quarter from the  three months  ended in December, the weakest
performance since the first quarter of 2010, and grew 4.84
percent from the  year -earlier period, the central bank said
today in a report on its website.  Ecuador, which depends on oil exports for about 41 percent
of government revenue, saw prices for its Oriente crude jump 16
percent in the first quarter, peaking at $120.68 per barrel on
Feb. 24, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Since then,
prices for the nation’s crude have plunged 27 percent, a sign
that weaker growth in South America’s seventh-biggest economy is
“almost inevitable,” said  Michael Henderson , an analyst at
Capital Economics Ltd. in  London .  “Oil prices tend to drive economic growth,” Henderson
said June 28 in a telephone interview. “This year they’ll
struggle to do better than about 4 percent.”  Ecuador’s Finance Ministry forecasts GDP will rise 5.35
percent in 2012, while the  World Bank  said June 12 it expects an
expansion of 3 percent, less than its 3.5 percent estimate for
the Latin American and the Caribbean region overall.  Chinese Loans  Loans from  China , totaling about $7.3 billion since 2009,
have helped President  Rafael Correa  lessen the impact from a
global economic slowdown this year, Henderson said. The
government, which defaulted on $3.2 billion of global bonds in
2008 and 2009, expects to receive an additional $1.7 billion
from China this year to finance  government spending , Correa said
in February.  The liquidity boost from crude prices and Chinese loans was
cited by  Standard & Poor’s  when it raised Ecuador’s credit
rating last month to B from B-, five levels below investment
grade.  Still, with crude prices down 0.6 percent since S&P’s
June 7 upgrade, the government has begun to take measures to
protect the economy from a balance-of-payments crisis should
crude keep declining, Quito-based research firm Politik said
June 28 in a note to clients.  The government said June 18 it’s seeking to cut imports by
$300 million this year by limiting purchases of consumer
products, including vehicles and mobile phones. Planned repairs
to the nation’s biggest refinery, which will force the country
to increase spending on fuel imports, have also been delayed,
according to the state-owned  oil company , PetroEcuador.  ‘Achilles Heel’  “The government appears to recognize, at least implicitly,
a scenario that could get more complicated in the medium term,”
Politik said.  Ecuador, which uses the  U.S. dollar  as its official
currency, had a $712 million balance-of-payments deficit in the
fourth quarter of 2011, the most recent data from the central
bank shows. Correa, who openly criticizes the country’s use of
the greenback, has said trade deficits are the nation’s
“Achilles’ heel.”  The yield on Ecuador’s benchmark dollar bonds due in 2015
jumped 23 basis points, or 0.23 percentage point, to 9.53
percent on June 29, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. A 29
basis-point drop in yields during the first quarter was erased
in the three months ended last week, as the nation’s borrowing
costs jumped 54 basis points, according to JPMorgan.  “It’s really been only in the last few months where  oil
prices  have really slowed,” said Henderson. “It might be a few
more months before we really see what the underlying state of
affairs is for Ecuador.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  