-- Funds Win With Bull Bets Before Biggest Rally Since ’09
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-07-02T21:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/hedge-funds-win-on-bull-bets-before-biggest-rally-commodities.html
Hedge funds  lifted their bullish
commodity bets for a third week, just before a European
agreement to contain the region’s debt crisis spurred the
biggest rally in raw-material prices in three years.  Money managers increased their combined net-long  positions 
across 18 U.S. futures and options by 15 percent to 724,783
contracts in the week ended June 26, Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data show. That’s the biggest gain since January.
Corn holdings rose to the most in five weeks, and sugar wagers
climbed to the highest since mid-April.  Most markets surged June 29 after European leaders agreed
to a 120 billion-euro ($151 billion) plan to stimulate growth
and ease terms for loans to Spanish banks. The Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities jumped 5.6 percent, the
biggest gain since April 2009, the euro climbed the most this
year and Spanish bonds rallied. Europe consumes 18 percent of
the world’s copper and accounts for 22 percent of oil demand,
data from Barclays Plc and BP Plc show.  Policy makers “are addressing a lot of issues that were
taboo,” said  Mihir Worah , who manages Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s $22 billion Commodity Real Return Strategy Fund
from  Newport Beach ,  California . “Whether this plan works or
not, the fact that they’re talking about them is important.
Stable or growing economies support more commodity demand.”  Equities Rally  The S&P GSCI index fell 0.3 percent to settle at 597.4
today after rising 6.3 percent last week. The MSCI All-Country
World Index of equities gained 2.5 percent last week as the U.S.
Dollar Index, a measure against six trading partners, retreated
0.8 percent. Treasuries returned 0.1 percent, a Bank of America
Corp. index shows.  Leaders from the 17-nation  euro zone  ended talks last week
by dropping the requirement that governments get preferred-
creditor status on crisis loans to Spain’s banks and opened the
door to recapitalizing lenders directly with bailout funds once
 Europe  sets up a single banking supervisor. Until now, they had
to get aid through their governments. Germany’s parliament
approved the creation of a permanent bailout fund June 29.  Orders for U.S. durable goods climbed more than forecast in
May, easing concern that U.S. manufacturing is faltering.
Bookings rose 1.1 percent, the first gain in three months, the
Commerce Department said June 27. Business activity expanded in
June at a faster pace than expected, a  gauge  from the Institute
for Supply Management- Chicago  Inc. showed June 29.  Economic Confidence  The rally in commodities may not last because “the cloud
of Europe is still going to hang over the market for several
quarters,” said  Jack Ablin , the chief investment officer of BMO
Harris Private Bank in Chicago, which oversees about $60 billion
of assets. Economic confidence in the euro area slumped to the
lowest in more than 2 1/2 years in June and German unemployment
increased more than economists forecast, separate reports showed
June 28. Spain and Cyprus became the fourth and fifth euro
members to seek external aid last month.  The S&P GSCI slumped 13 percent last quarter, the most
since the global recession, and tumbled into a  bear market  on
June 21 amid the escalating fiscal crisis and after the  Federal
Reserve  refrained from starting another round of debt buying.
More than $3.6 trillion has been erased from the value of global
equities since March 31, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Money managers pulled $193 million from commodity funds in
the week ended June 27, according to data from Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based EPFR Global, which tracks money flows.
Investor outflows were $8.2 billion in May, the highest monthly
total since a record $9.8 billion in September, Barclays said on
June 25, citing its measure of exchange-traded products, index-
linked funds and medium-term notes.  Morgan Stanley  Morgan Stanley stuck with recommendations that investors
buy gold, copper and  iron ore . As Europe’s crisis threatens
growth, investors should seek “exposure only to those metals
and bulk commodities that reflect the benefits of tight supply
conditions and pockets of residual demand strength,” analysts
 Peter Richardson  and Joel Crane said in a report June 28.  Rio Tinto Group, the world’s third-largest mining company,
said June 29 that economic growth in  China  will accelerate in
the second half of this year even as European turmoil escalates.
The Asian country is the world’s biggest consumer of everything
from aluminum to cotton to pork.  Funds boosted their bullish oil  wagers  for the first time
in eight weeks, increasing the net-long position by 1 percent to
124,017 contracts, CFTC data show.  New York  futures surged 9.4
percent on June 29, the biggest gain in more than three years.  Farm Bets  A  measure  of 11 U.S. farm goods showed speculators raised
bullish wagers in agricultural commodities by 24 percent to
533,095 contracts, the biggest gain since February. Traders
switched to betting on a wheat rally with a net-long position of
40,194 contracts, compared with a net-short holding of 5,182 the
prior week, the government said.  Money managers boosted wagers on higher corn prices by 53
percent to 108,542 contracts, the highest since May 22. The
grain surged 15 percent last week, the biggest gain since
December 2008, after a government report showed inventories
tumbled the most in 16 years and as dry weather parched fields.  Crops wilted as little or no rain fell in growing areas in
the past month, according to the  National Weather Service . A dry
spell this severe happens only once every quarter-century, said
 Sal Gilbertie , who helps manage $79 million of assets as the
president and chief investment officer of Teucrium Trading LLC
in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico . The U.S. is the world’s biggest corn
producer and exporter.  “Commodities are priced at a very good value right now,”
said Bill Greiner, who oversees $13 billion of assets as chief
investment officer at Mariner Wealth Advisors in  Kansas City ,
 Missouri . “That’s traditionally the time you want to step up
and buy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  