-- European Banks Bolster Capital With Shunned Bonds: Mortgages
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-07-01T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/european-banks-bolster-capital-with-shunned-bonds-mortgages.html
Spanish and Portuguese banks are
leading European lenders in buying back their own mortgage-
backed securities at distressed prices to bolster capital and
stockpile eligible collateral for  European Central Bank  loans.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,  Banco Comercial
Portugues SA (BCP)  and other lenders this year repurchased 6.6 billion
euros ($8.4 billion) of asset-backed bonds they issued, more
than double the level for all of 2011, according to data
compiled by Deutsche Bank AG. Banks buy the debt, packages of
loans in which they kept subordinated portions, for less than
face value, and book a capital gain similar to the discount.  The purchases follow European Banking Authority demands
that banks raise 114.7 billion euros by last week after the
sharp fall in the value of bonds issued by governments in the
17-member shared currency. The deals are poised to accelerate
after the ECB last month reduced the minimum ratings it will
accept for mortgage securities offered as collateral for cheap
loans, adding incentive to lenders to buy back debt and pledge
it with the Frankfurt-based institution.  “Compliance with the EBA rules has been the main reason of
all buybacks we are seeing so far, but there will be more deals
since the ECB will take more of that paper,” said Frank Erik Meijer, head of asset-backed securities at The Hague-based Aegon
Asset Management, which oversees 220 billion euros of assets.
“Lenders with little or no other sources to raise capital and
funding can turn to this strategy.”  Northern Rock  The bigger the discount the mortgage debt is trading at the
larger the incentive for banks to repurchase their own deals
because that translates into greater  capital gains .  U.K. lender  Northern Rock  Asset Management Plc last month
offered to buy back bonds issued under its Granite program as
some were trading at 58 percent of face value. They’ve risen to
69 percent of face value after the Newcastle-based lender bailed
out by the U.K government said it would offer 64 percent to 77
percent of par.  Incentives are greatest for Spanish and Portuguese lenders,
where yields over benchmark rates for mortgage-backed securities
are as much as 17 times higher than comparable notes pooling
home loans in the U.K. Eleven Spanish banks and four Portuguese
lenders have put out tenders to repurchase some of their
securitizations, according to Barclays Plc data.  Few Alternatives  European lenders have few alternatives to raise capital as
demand for shares of financial companies has plummeted amid the
crisis over the common currency.  Sales of stock from European financial institutions fell 71
percent to 2.7 billion euros, data compiled by Bloomberg show,
as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis has spread from  Greece  to
 Spain , roiling credit and equity markets. The Bloomberg Europe
Banks and Financial Services  Index (BEBANKS)  declined more than 28 percent
in the last year.  Shares have fallen even as the European Central Bank pumped
1 trillion euros of three-year loans, known as the LTRO program,
into the system since December, making it easier for them to
fund such transactions. ECB provides the secured loans at a rate
of 1 percent.  “LTRO money has made it easier for banks, especially from
peripheral countries, to use funding to raise capital at a
moment when other possibilities such as sale of stock or asset
sales are virtually closed,” said Conor O’Toole, the London-
based asset-backed securities analyst at Deutsche Bank. “Even
as buybacks are at record levels so far this year, we expect a
second round of tenders.”  Rating Changes  Last month, the ECB, which demands residential mortgage-
backed securities to be graded by at least two credit rating
companies, said it will allow a second ranking as low as the
least investment grade, six steps below the prior requirement.
The central bank also widened the range of asset-backed
securities it accepts as collateral.  Banks can pledge between 40 and 50 billion euros of bonds,
which were not eligible due to rating cuts, said Bank of America
Merrill Lynch analysts including Alexander Batchvarov.  Securitizations pool assets ranging from corporate loans to
mortgages and slice them into securities of varying risk. The
transactions remain on the originator’s balance sheet when it
retains the riskiest slices.  Bilbao, Spain-based BBVA bought back 638.2 million euros of
bonds backed by mortgages, consumer and company loans in a deal
allowing it to record a 250 million euro capital gain, according
to a June 28 regulatory filing. Banco Comercial Portugues
offered to buy back as much as 300 million euros of bonds it
issued between 2003 and 2007 mostly under its Magellan program
backed by residential mortgages.  Bond Spreads  Investors demand 1025 basis points, or 10.25 percentage
points, more than interbank rates to hold a senior five-year
bond backed by Portuguese home loans, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. data. That exceeds the 10 percent level considered
distressed. The spread for Spanish residential mortgages is 615
basis points compared with 150 for Dutch mortgage backed
securities and 132 for British transactions.  House prices  in Spain and  Portugal  are declining at the
fastest pace on record as borrowers face increasing unemployment
rates and lenders are contracting the financing available to
potential home buyers. Spanish home  prices  declined 12.6 percent
in the last year through March, the biggest fall since 2008, and
Portugal’s retreated 8.9 percent in the last 12 months as of
May, the biggest declined since 2009, according to governments’
figures.  Worst Scenario  Spain’s banks would need as much as 62 billion euros in
capital to withstand a worst-case economic scenario, according
to two consulting firms hired by the government to conduct
stress tests on the lenders. Portugal’s  Finance Ministry  also
said last month that the state planned to inject more than 6.6
billion euros in Banco Comercial Portugues,  Banco BPI SA (BPI)  and
Caixa Geral de Depositos SA to help the lenders meet  capital
requirements .  Spain, which is negotiating conditions to use a 100 billion
euro rescue package for its financial sector, won agreement from
its euro-area partners to open the way to recapitalizing lenders
directly with bailout funds once Europe sets up a single banking
supervisor. Portugal’s lenders can use a 12 billion-euro
recapitalization facility that’s part of the financial
assistance program agreed with the EU and the  International
Monetary Fund .  “The tender offers have been dominated by Spanish and
Portuguese banks due to the concerns over their banking system
and necessity to improve their core tier 1 ratios, ” said
Dipesh Mehta, a London-based securitization analyst at Barclays.
“As their bonds trade at significantly bigger discount than ABS
bonds from the U.K. or  Netherlands , the potential gains are
bigger.”  Italian Lenders  Italian and Irish lenders also may opt to tender for
mortgage-backed securities. Investors demand 500 basis points
spread to hold a senior bond packaging Italian lenders, and 925
basis points to buy Irish securities.  Irish Central Bank Deputy Governor Matthew Elderfield said
the country’s banks may need to raise up to 4 billion euros in
additional capital in the next six years,  Germany ’s Boersen-
Zeitung reported May 30 citing an interview.  Banks are accelerating repurchases of mortgage-backed
securities at a time the deals credit quality is deteriorating.
 Standard & Poor’s  cut 382 portions of European prime residential
mortgage-backed securities in the first quarter compared with 68
in the fourth quarter last year, and 65 a year earlier,
according to Association for Financial Markets in Europe  data .  Sovereign Cuts  About 75 percent of downgrades of European residential
mortgage-backed securities in the first quarter were related
with a credit rating cut of the country where the pooled assets
are located, New York-based S&P said in a June 18 report.
Underperformance of the underlying collateral accounted by 15
percent of the ratings downgrades in the period.  “Buybacks will most likely continue especially from
peripheral countries where the big discounts of the existing
paper make the deal attractive for the banks,” said Dalibor Jarnevic, a Frankfurt-based asset-backed securities trader at DZ
Bank AG. “Apart from Spain and Portugal, where we had seen a
lot of activity already, we may also expect tenders coming from
 Italy  and maybe from Ireland.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ; 