-- Euro Leaders Turn to Central Bank for Help to Tackle Crisis
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-07-02T08:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/euro-leaders-turn-to-central-bankers-for-help-to-tackle-crisis.html
European leaders turn to the  European
Central Bank  this week, seeking assistance from monetary policy
makers to reinforce gains following euro-area leaders’ moves to
calm markets and accelerate the currency bloc’s integration.  The Frankfurt-based ECB may offer help on July 5, with
economists expecting an interest rate cut. The bank has a track
record of action following political progress, including bond
purchases that followed bailout programs and unlimited three-
year loans on the heels of pledges supporting fiscal discipline.  European Union leaders ushered in the strongest rally in
the single currency and in Spanish  bonds  this year after
agreeing at their June 28-29 summit to loosen bailout rules, lay
the foundations for a banking union and break the link between
sovereign and banking debt through the direct recapitalization
of lenders. EU leaders will try to maintain the muscle-flexing
by seeking to convince investors that the euro area will do
everything it can to end the three-year crisis.  “The summit produced several tangible outcomes that will
help us address the challenges,” ECB Executive Board member
Joerg Asmussen told Greek newspaper  Kathimerini  in an interview.
The comments were confirmed by the ECB on June 30.  Economists expect the ECB to lower its  benchmark interest
rate  by at least 25 basis points to a record low of 0.75
percent, according to the median of 57 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey, as a worsening economic outlook dampens price pressures.  Yields Slide  Spanish and Italian notes rose for a second week running
last week, with Italian  two-year yields  sliding 30 basis points
to 3.5 percent last week and similar Spanish securities
declining 16 points to 4.27 percent. The euro jumped 1.8 percent
June 29, falling 0.3 percent to $1.2636 at 9:29 a.m.in
Frankfurt. The  Stoxx Europe 600 (SXXP)  Index climbed 0.3 percent.  The so-called troika of international creditors to  Greece 
is due to arrive in  Athens  this week to oversee the bailout,
with the ECB’s Asmussen saying that implementation has
“virtually stalled” in the last three months. The new
government must make kick-starting the program its “first
priority,” Asmussen said today in the Greek capital.  In Brussels, Euro-area leaders agreed after 13 1/2 hours of
talks last week to drop the preferred status of taxpayers over
bondholders in Spanish banks given  government aid , clear the
path for direct bank funding using bailout funds and to
establish a single bank supervisor.  ‘Quite Pleased’  The decisions will add to the ECB’s powers, under clauses
in existing EU treaties that could allow it to exercise
prudential oversight of banks and other non-insurance financial
companies. The central bank will now be at the center of  Spain ’s
efforts to separate its government from the European rescue of
its banking industry.  “I am actually quite pleased with the outcome of the
European council,” ECB President  Mario Draghi  told reporters in
Brussels June 29. “It showed the long-term commitment to the
euro by all member states of the euro area.”  Draghi will chair the ECB’s policy meeting this week when
any rate move will be announced. In addition to the benchmark
rate, policy makers may also cut the deposit rate to discourage
banks from parking excess liquidity at the central bank.  Rate Cut  The ECB may also continue to exercise restraint on
borrowing costs as it aims to maintain pressure on governments
to act, said  Michael Schubert , an economist at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt.  A rate cut would work as a fillip to the euro-area’s 17-
nation economy, which the European Commission expects to
contract by 0.3 percent this year. Lower  interest rates  would
also help embattled lenders in debt-burdened parts of the bloc
by making the central bank’s emergency loans cheaper.  Euro-area leaders may hesitate to declare victory
prematurely, with favorable post-summit response from markets in
the past proving short-lived. A report last week by  Valentin Marinov , head of European and Group of 10 currency strategy at
Citigroup Inc. in  London , showed that the euro weakened against
the dollar in the seven days following four previous such
meetings.  The process for establishing a euro-area bank supervisor
and thus allowing the permanent bailout fund, the European
Stability Mechanism, to recapitalize banks directly could take
“several months or perhaps a year,”  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
told  Germany ’s lower house of parliament in Berlin on June 29.  Borrowing Costs  Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said swift
adoption of the summit’s decisions would help reduce his
country’s borrowing costs.  “Decisions were taken that will have a fundamental role in
the short term to lower spreads,” de Guindos said during a
conference in Navacerrada, near  Madrid , yesterday. “It is
fundamental that these decisions be concretely implemented in
the next weeks and months to show the fiscal policy is more and
more coordinated and more compatible with the monetary policy.”  The shuttling among euro leaders will continue this week as
Merkel travels to  Rome  on July 4 for a summit with Italian Prime
Minister  Mario Monti . They’ll plot the bloc’s next steps in a
crisis that claimed the eastern Mediterranean island nation of
Cyprus as its fifth victim last week.  EU Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  called on
all the bloc’s nations to draft financial regulations in the
coming weeks as a “cornerstone” of the banking union, he said
in a June 29 interview in Brussels.  German Lawsuits  Another hazard may be a delay to the ESM, the 500 billion-
euro ($633 billion) permanent bailout fund that was scheduled to
be operational this month. It was approved by Germany’s
parliament along with the fiscal pact governing EU budget rules
on June 29, though it awaits the signature of German President
 Joachim Gauck .  Gauck has agreed to withhold approval pending lawsuits
seeking to challenge the new laws, as requested by the Federal
Constitutional Court. Lawsuits by groups including “ Europe 
Needs More Democracy,” which represents 12,000 people, and
Germany’s Left Party, were filed immediately after passage.  The issue of public support was also underscored by a TNS
Emnid poll published in Focus that showed a majority of Germans
favoring a referendum on transferring national sovereignty to
the EU as part of a fiscal union. Some 73 percent of Germans
want such a referendum, while 21 percent see a decision by the
lower house of parliament as sufficient, the poll in the German
magazine showed.  Britain’s Prime Minister  David Cameron  wrote in a Sunday
Telegraph article yesterday that he’s not opposed to a popular
vote on Britain’s membership of the European Union and a
plebiscite may be needed to gain the support of Britons to stay
in.  Pressure for a U.K. vote is building as the quest to end
Europe’s debt turmoil pushes the euro area toward closer
political and fiscal union, leaving Britain increasingly
isolated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  