-- Lew Says Republicans Should ’Get Over’ Health Law Debate
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-07-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/lew-says-republicans-should-get-over-the-debate-on-health-law.html
White House Chief of Staff Jack Lew
said Republican attacks on President  Barack Obama ’s health-care
law as a tax are rehashing old arguments, as Republican leaders
in Congress vow to keep up a drive to repeal it.  “What the American people don’t want is they don’t want to
be taken back to the old divisive debate,” Lew said on CNN
yesterday. The U.S.  Supreme Court  ruled last week in favor of
the law’s central feature, a mandate requiring most Americans to
carry health insurance or pay a penalty. Lew said the public
wants its government to “get over the debate and implement the
law.”  In  Massachusetts , where former Governor  Mitt Romney , the
presumptive Republican presidential nominee, implemented a
similar law, just 1 percent of the population is subject to the
penalty, Lew said on CNN’s “ State of the Union ” program.  Republican lawmakers and allies including the anti-tax Club
for Growth are shifting from attacking the constitutionality of
the law’s requirement that Americans buy health insurance or pay
a penalty to emphasizing its tax implications for millions of
Americans.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said yesterday that Republicans will make repealing
the law their top priority if they win control of the Senate. In
the House, Speaker  John Boehner  also vowed to repeal the law in
full, even as he described some of its provisions as “sound.”  Tax Label  Chief Justice  John Roberts , who joined four more-liberal
justices in upholding the law, wrote that the penalty imposed on
those who fail to buy health insurance was a form of tax, which
is constitutionally within congressional power.  “The Supreme Court, which has the final say, says it is a
tax,” McConnell said on the “Fox News Sunday” program.
Republicans, who control the House, said they would hold a vote
to repeal the act on July 11, though there’s no chance they can
succeed as long as Democrats control the Senate and the
president is there to veto a bill.  “We’ve got one last chance here to defeat Obamacare, we
can do that in the November election” by winning control of the
 U.S. Senate  and the White House, said McConnell.  “While the Court upheld it as constitutional, they
certainly didn’t say that it was a good law,” Boehner, an  Ohio
Republican , told CBS’s “Face the Nation” program in an
interview. “It has to be ripped out and we need to start
over.”  Political Concern  The Senate elections will be a referendum on the law and if
Republicans win control, they can pass a bill through the
chamber repealing it under so-called reconciliation rules, said
McConnell. That means only 51 votes would be needed for approval
instead of the 60 required under normal protocol.
“Reconciliation is available because the Supreme Court has now
declared it a tax,” he said.  House Democratic Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California
Democrat, said yesterday that the penalty imposed in the health-
care law on those who don’t buy insurance isn’t a tax.  “No, no, no, no,” Pelosi said on NBC’s “Meet the
Press,” insisting that Solicitor General Donald Verrilli’s
winning argument that the health-care overhaul was
constitutional under Congress’s taxing authority hasn’t put
Democrats in a bind.  “It’s not a tax on the American people -- it’s a penalty
for free riders,” she said. Pelosi said the penalty would fall
on perhaps 1 percent of the population who, because they don’t
buy health insurance, “make it more expensive.”  Expanding Coverage  Pelosi said that while Democrats can do a better job of
communicating the law’s benefits, there won’t be any
backtracking on the overhaul as Republicans have vowed to do by
repealing it.  “I think that part of it is over,” Pelosi said. “As far
as we’re concerned, the victory is there for the American
people.”  The law, formally known as the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act and dubbed “Obamacare” by Republicans,
represents the biggest change to the U.S. health system since
Medicare and Medicaid were established in 1965.  It was designed to expand coverage to at least 30 million
people and has already begun to transform an industry that makes
up 18 percent of the nation’s economy.  Asked what Republicans would do to provide universal health
coverage to an estimated 30 million uninsured Americans,
McConnell said “that is not the issue.”  Improvements Sought  The U.S. health-care system is “already the finest health-
care system in the world,” McConnell said on Fox’s Sunday
program. “We’re not going to turn the American health-care
system into a Western European system,” said McConnell.  “We need to go step by step to replace it with more modest
reforms,” he said. “We will not take a meat axe to the
American health-care system, we will pull out a scalpel and go
step by step.” McConnell cited efforts to permit interstate
sales of health insurance that Republicans say would increase
competition and lower costs, and lawsuit overhaul.  Oklahoma Senator  Tom Coburn , speaking on CBS’s “Face the
Nation,” said the law won’t fix spiraling health-care costs
that are the biggest challenge facing lawmakers.  “The affordable care act fixes a lot of symptoms and not
the disease,” said Coburn, a Republican. “The disease is
health care costs too much.”  New Benefits  Lew, speaking in a separate interview on ABC’s “This
Week” program, said the law will become more popular as it is
given time to take effect. “The American people are starting to
experience the benefits,” he said.  Under the law, college graduates can remain on their
parents health insurance until age 26, parents with children
with serious conditions won’t have to worry their benefits will
be capped, individuals with pre-existing conditions can’t be
denied care and the elderly won’t have to be as concerned about
gaps in coverage, said Lew.  Boehner said he supported letting people under 26 stay on
their parents’ insurance when out of a job, one of the measures
included in the law. Though he said many of the provisions can
be replaced.  A poll released on the day of the decision shows the
country is evenly divided over the wisdom of the court’s
judgment.  The USA Today/Gallup poll showed 46 percent agreed with the
court’s ruling and 46 percent disagreed, with independent voters
splitting 45 percent in favor and 42 percent against the
decision.  To contact the reporter on this story: Heidi Przybyla in
Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  