-- Mexicans Vote in Election Expected to Return PRI to Power
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-07-01T20:27:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/mexicans-go-to-polls-as-pena-nieto-looks-to-return-pri-to-power.html
Mexicans are voting in an election
where presidential front-runner Enrique Pena Nieto is looking to
return the once-dominant  Institutional Revolutionary Party  to
power after a 12-year hiatus.  The most recent poll taken last week showed the PRI
candidate leading  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador  of the Democratic
Revolution Party by 13 percentage points. Josefina Vazquez Mota
of the ruling  National Action Party , or  PAN , was in third. Also
at stake are all 500 seats in the Chamber of Deputies, 128 in
the Senate, as well as six governorships and the capital.  Pena Nieto has maintained a lead throughout the race,
fueled by pledges to boost salaries held back by economic growth
that averaged 1.8 percent a year, half the rate of  Brazil , since
President  Felipe Calderon  took office in 2006. The 45-year-old
former governor of  Mexico  state, the country’s most-populous,
has also promised to turn the tide in a drug war blamed for more
than 47,000 deaths under Calderon and pursue tax, labor and
energy overhauls to boost competitiveness.  “All three of the candidates reflect what most open
political races are about, which is how do you improve people’s
lives,” Thomas “Mack” McLarty, former chief of staff for U.S.
President  Bill Clinton  and his special envoy to the Americas,
said in an interview. “The real story here is that Mexico’s
democracy continues to evolve and develop and progress.”  Mexico’s  79.5 million registered voters  will cast ballots
from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. in each of Mexico’s three time zones.
Pollsters including GEA-ISA will release exit polls as soon as
voting ends at 9 p.m.  New York  time, while the Federal Electoral
Institute will publish preliminary results at about 11:45 p.m.
Mexico City time.  Conceding Defeat  Many Mexicans will be looking to see if Lopez Obrador, 58,
who has focused his campaign on boosting spending for the poor,
will concede defeat if he loses. After the last elections in
2006, which the PRD candidate lost by less than a percentage
point after leading in most pre-election polls, his supporters
occupied streets in the capital for weeks claiming fraud.  Lopez Obrador  arrived before 8:00 a.m. at his voting
station in Mexico City and had to wait more than 45 minutes
until it was formally opened.  “I trust the people of Mexico, I believe in the people,”
he said, according to the Reforma newspaper. “We are going to
win.”  Celebration of Democracy  Lopez Obrador’s party has alleged the PRI is trying to buy
votes by handing supporters shop gift cards, while the PAN has
said Pena Nieto’s party is giving away bank cards. The PRI has
denied the claims and its leadership yesterday in a press
conference said it has asked all of its representatives to abide
by electoral laws.  “I want in this electoral day the people of Mexico to be
the winner,” Pena Nieto said after voting in his hometown of
Atlacomulco, in the state of Mexico. “I want this day to be a
celebration of our democracy.”  Whereas Lopez Obrador arrived in a single car to vote, Pena
Nieto came in a convoy of three dark  sport utility vehicles  and
took several photos with supporters on his way in and out.  The PRI’s 71 years in power were marked by “theft and
devaluation,” said Maria Etchegaray, 82, as she lined up to
vote in Mexico City. “I am going to vote for Vazquez Mota
because I’ll never vote for the PRI,” she said, adding that
Lopez Obrador “scares” her.  At the same polling station, Enrique Torres said he would
vote for Pena Nieto, describing him as more “refined.” Lopez
Obrador’s “time has passed,” he said.  Distrust  Doubts over the fairness of elections when PRI was in power
and the 2006 standoff between Calderon and Lopez Obrador have
fueled mistrust among Mexicans. A survey taken June 22-24 by
Mexico City-based Consulta Mitofsky showed that 30 percent of
voters have “a lot” of confidence in the Federal Electoral
Institute’s ability to oversee the election, less than the 44
percent ahead of the 2006 vote.  In the past few weeks, Pena Nieto has faced student
protests organized on the Internet and driven in part by concern
he will erode civil liberties and revive corruption that thrived
when the PRI ruled alone for 71 years until 2000.  Vazquez Mota, 51, has promised to continue the pro-business
policies and drug crackdown initiated by Calderon, who is barred
by the constitution from seeking re-election.  Opinion Polls  Pena Nieto had 38.4 percent support in the poll Mitofsky,
compared with 25.4 backing for Lopez Obrador and 20.8 percent
for Vazquez Mota. The poll of 1,000 registered voters had a 3.1
percentage-point margin of error.  The same poll shows the PRI and its coalition partner the
 Green Party  garnering at least 274 of the 500 seats in the lower
house of Congress, though backing for PRI legislative candidates
had slipped to the lowest in the campaign. Currently, the PRI’s
 coalition  has 262 seats.  Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB, Mexico’s third-largest bank,
forecast in a June 27 note to clients that the coalition would
win a majority in the Senate, where it’s currently the  second-
biggest plurality  after Calderon’s party, while falling short of
one in the lower house.  In the lower house vote, 300 lawmakers are elected directly
while the remaining 200 are chosen through a system of
proportional representation based on the national congressional
vote. In the Senate, 96 are elected directly, with three named
per state. The remaining 32 are chosen through proportional
representation.  Changing Tactics  Pena Nieto has said that if elected he plans to spur growth
by making it easier for companies to hire and fire workers,
increasing tax collection and encouraging more businesses to
join the formal economy. He also said he plans to loosen
Petroleos Mexicanos’ oil monopoly, which was formed when his
party nationalized the then foreign-owned industry in 1938.  Pena Nieto has said he’ll change tactics in the drug war,
reducing violence by focusing on the worst crimes such as murder
and kidnapping and eventually return the army to the barracks.
In a Bloomberg interview in November, he rejected as
“nonsense” and “propaganda” accusations by his rivals that
he’ll negotiate with criminal gangs.  Vazquez Mota has tried to lift her candidacy by reminding
voters of the PRI’s past, citing in a June 10 debate the 1968
massacre in Mexico City’s Tlatelolco Square when the military
killed hundreds of students protesting anti-democratic practices
days before the city hosted the  Olympic Games . Pena Nieto was
two years old at the time.  “People are going to be asking ‘Is this a new PRI?’ which
his campaign suggests, or is he the young, handsome face of the
old PRI,” said Diana Villiers Negroponte, a nonresident senior
fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in  Washington . “I don’t
think any of us can make that conclusion with certainty until
January or February,” after the new president takes office on
Dec. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
 Eric Martin  in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 