-- Goldman Ex-Banker Shakes Up ‘Basket Case’ U.K. Hospital
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2012-07-01T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/goldman-ex-banker-shakes-up-basket-case-u-k-hospital.html
In the hands of  England ’s
government-run health system,  Hinchingbrooke Hospital  was called
“a basket case” in Parliament. Ali Parsa wants to show that
private enterprise can do a better job than the state in
providing medical care.  Parsa, an ex-Goldman Sachs Group Inc. banker, wants to
change how U.K. hospitals are run, right down to the meals
served to patients. He’s chief executive officer of  Circle
Holdings Plc (CIRC) , which in February became the first for-profit firm
to take over a National Health Service hospital when it began
managing Hinchingbrooke in Huntingdon, England. Circle last
month raised 46 million pounds ($72.3 million) in part to help
the company pursue contracts to manage more NHS sites.  “People told us you can never run a hospital a different
way; you can never change the way NHS staff work,” Parsa, 47,
says in an interview at the company’s London headquarters. “We
have fundamentally changed them.”  As the U.S. debates what role government should have in
health care, the U.K. is slowly putting some pieces of its 64-
year-old state-run health system into private hands to try to
improve patient care and reduce costs. Prime Minister  David
Cameron  says more choice and competition are needed to improve
the NHS. Instilling a profit motive in a government-owned
hospital means patient needs won’t come first, said Allyson
Pollock, a researcher at  Queen Mary, University of London  who
opposes privatization.  “It’s immoral, it’s obscene,” she said in an interview.
“It’s a system that’s going to be built on greed, not need.
It’s the antithesis of everything that we worked for for 64
years.”  Emergency-Room Waits  From a medical point of view, Parsa appears to be doing
something right. Emergency-room waits at Hinchingbrooke, 70
miles north of London, have improved from the county’s worst to
its best and lengths of stay for people getting non-urgent
orthopedic care have dropped 38 percent, freeing up beds. The
company says serious incidents, such as medication errors or
patient falls, fell by 80 percent in May. Circle also will save
1.5 million pounds on purchasing this year.  Circle’s bid for the 10-year contract to run Hinchingbrooke
beat 18 others. The company gets the first 2 million pounds of
profit from any surplus, and a percentage above that amount,
which the union that represents hospital workers has said will
benefit the company and its shareholders at patients’ expense.
Circle must also fund the first 5 million pounds of any loss, a
risk at a hospital that already has 40 million pounds of debt.  Patient Perks  Circle isn’t new to the NHS. Its two-year-old private
 hospital near Bath  serves as many NHS patients as private
patients -- at NHS prices. Circle has run the U.K.’s largest
treatment center in  Nottingham  since 2008. The company plans to
open another private hospital in Reading in August or September
and has sites for more clinics.  Parsa says it’s possible not only to provide quality care
and a pleasant patient experience for rich and poor patients
alike, but to make money in the process. At the core of the
business strategy is increased efficiency, primarily through
shorter hospital stays. Patient perks, like inexpensive parking
and food prepared by a chef from a Michelin-starred eatery,
ensure that hospital beds stay full with more rapid turnover.  In Bath, Circle hired a hotel manager and chef from nearby
 Lucknam Park Hotel & Spa , a five-star country house hotel.
People from the local village of Peasedown celebrate their
birthdays in the hospital cafe, says Shelagh Meldrum, the
hospital manager. No wonder: A recent lunch served to patients
consisted of scallops and crab salad over dill and cucumber,
followed by a gently grilled salmon main course and lemon posset
for dessert.  Stock Performance  Taxi driver Dave McGlennon had a cyst removed from a finger
last year at the hospital. A high point: the food. “I had a ham
and cheese omelette with potato wedges” after surgery,
McGlennon says. “It was to die for.”  Financially, Circle has yet to succeed. The company had
revenue of 75 million pounds last year and has lost money every
year since it was founded in 2004. Circle’s stock has plunged 51
percent to 75 pence since its June 2011 initial public offering,
giving the company a market value of 98 million pounds.  The publicly traded company owns 50.1 percent of a
partnership that operates the hospitals and clinics. Parsa and
institutional investors Lansdowne Partners,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , Odey
Asset Management and Invesco Perpetual are among the
shareholders. Employees, including doctors, own the other 49.9
percent.  Taxpayer Funded  Circle’s approach to running a hospital is a radical
departure for the NHS. The government created the agency in
1948, bringing hospitals, doctors and other health-care
providers into one taxpayer-funded medical system for all. The
network now includes 257 general acute-care hospitals like
Hinchingbrooke. About 1.7 million people work for the NHS, which
provides free care for the U.K.’s 62 million residents.  A network of three NHS hospitals in South London is holding
talks with the  Department of Health  about being put under the
control of administrators because it has racked up more debt
than it can pay. The department said June 25 that more than 60
other hospitals may be financially unsustainable and require
restructuring.  The NHS budget at its inception was 437 million pounds, or
9 billion pounds at today’s value, according to the department.
In the current fiscal year, the system will spend 106 billion
pounds. The government has approved an NHS overhaul with a goal
of saving 15 billion to 20 billion pounds on the annual budget
in the four years to 2014-15.  Partial Strike  The overhaul prompted the British Medical Association,
which represents two-thirds of practicing doctors, to declare a
partial strike for June 21, its first work stoppage since 1975.  “I think the public looks at the U.S. health system and
doesn’t want to see big encroachment of the private sector in
the British health system,” said  Diane Abbott , a member of
Parliament who speaks for the opposition  Labour Party  on health
matters.  Defending the Circle deal for Hinchingbrooke in Parliament
last year, the  Department of Health ’s undersecretary of state,
Frederick Curzon, said: “This is a hospital that in common
parlance could be described as a financial and clinical basket
case.”  Circle’s bells-and-whistles approach may be a hit with
patients like McGlennon. Skeptics say the company won’t be
judged on its cuisine as much as on the quality of its care.  ‘Clinical Results’  “I don’t personally go to a hospital based on Michelin-
starred food; I go to a hospital for clinical results,” says
Andrew Hine, a partner at consulting firm  KPMG  in London and a
former NHS hospital executive.  At Circle’s  Nottingham facility , Parsa says patients are
eight times less likely to have to return to the operating room
within four weeks. In 2010-11, the facility had no resistant
Staphylococcus aureus or health-care acquired Clostridium
difficile cases. On the financial side, Parsa said the center
has made an 18 percent annual compound productivity gain.  He says other U.K. hospitals can benefit from Circle’s
approach. “If we can deliver what we deliver at NHS prices, why
can’t everybody else?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in  London  at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  