-- Grimsson Secures Fifth Consecutive Term as Iceland President
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-07-01T15:25:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/grimsson-secures-fifth-consecutive-term-as-iceland-president-1-.html
Iceland ’s President Olafur R. Grimsson secured a fifth consecutive term as leader of the north
Atlantic island, after winning more than half of all votes cast
today.  Grimsson, 69, took 52.8 percent of the 162,346 votes
counted, final results showed. A total 235,284 people were
eligible to vote and turnout was 69 percent, according to the
electoral commission. Thora Arnorsdottir, a 37-year-old
journalist and television presenter, had 33.2 percent, while
each of the four other candidates got less than 10 percent.  Grimsson, first elected in 1996, announced in January that
he would not seek re-election for a fifth term. He unexpectedly
declared in March he would run, responding to a petition signed
by almost 10 percent of Iceland’s 320,000 people. The political
science professor, former party leader and finance minister is
the only top official to keep his position after a 2008 banking
collapse triggered the worst recession in six decades.  “The figures give a certain indication and that indication
is that I will be appointed to continue to serve my nation,”
Grimsson said on  RUV  state television after the tally showed him
with a majority of counted votes. Grimsson will be the island’s
first president to serve five consecutive four-year terms. He
told reporters in Reykjavik last night that he wouldn’t run for
a sixth.  ‘Significant Matters’  “Under normal circumstances I would have come to a
different conclusion, but more than 30,000 Icelanders, which is
a significant part of all the voters in Iceland, requested that
I continue,” Grimsson said in a June 21 interview in Selfoss,
southern Iceland. “Many significant matters that are likely to
lead to conflict and confrontations are going to be on the
agenda in the coming years.”  The island’s three largest banks defaulted on $85 billion
in 2008 after an expansion abroad, plunging Iceland’s $13
billion economy into its worst recession since gaining
independence from  Denmark  in 1944. The government escaped
bankruptcy by refusing to back the banks, which allowed it to
speed up its recovery and emerge from a 33-month  International
Monetary Fund  rescue program in August.  In a rare display of public outrage in the closely knit,
homogenous nation, Icelanders amassed at parliament with rocks
in 2009 to demand answers and accountability from the
government. Protests escalated into rock throwing, forcing
police to use teargas to disperse crowds at the legislature and
the offices of Prime Minister Geir Haarde, who was forced to
resign. A new coalition, led by Social Democrat Prime Minister
Johanna Sigurdardottir, was voted into office in early 2009.  Veto Powers  Grimsson, who had promoted the Icelandic banks before the
crash, also played an active role in its aftermath, tapping into
public resentment by using the rarely activated veto powers of
the largely ceremonial presidential post.  He twice blocked a parliamentary accord that sought to
repay British and Dutch depositors who had so-called Icesave
accounts with failed lender  Landsbanki Islands hf . Voters then
rejected the agreement in a referendum and Iceland is now being
sued by the European Free Trade Association for failing to honor
depositors’ guarantees.  Grimsson has said his pre-crisis support for the banks was
based on assessments by Iceland’s Financial Supervisory
Authority, an agency that was later criticized for its failure
to supervise the industry.  `Moral Responsibility'  Iceland’s  Special Investigative Commission , in a 3,000-page
report on the crisis published in April 2010, said Grimsson
bears “moral responsibility for the theatrical play.”  He “forcefully drew a beautified, arrogant and
nationalistic picture of the superiority of Icelanders, based on
old heritage,” according the report. “It’s noteworthy that
some of the qualities that the President thought were admirable
were exactly the characteristics that eventually led to their
and the nation’s demise.”  Grimsson has overplayed the power of the presidency,
according to his main opponent. Arnorsdottir, a mother of three
young children who gave birth to her youngest daughter on May
18, said she was running to rein in the power of position.  My first “reaction is good,” Arnorsdottir said in an
interview on RUV late yesterday. “Getting more than 30 percent
of the vote in is an accomplishment and I’m quite happy.”  Stability Needed  While it’s true “that no one enters a fight without hoping
to win,” she said, “challenging a person that has been
president for 16 years is quite a task.”  Grimsson said he has  responded  to the call of the people to
provide stability.  “Numerous polls have shown that over 90 percent of the
Icelandic population doesn’t trust”  parliament , he said.
“Under those circumstances, voters have called for a president
in Bessastadir who possesses both experience and is reliable.”
Bessastadir is the formal residence of the president.  The four remaining candidates, Ari Trausti Gudmundsson,
Herdis Thorgeirsdottir, Hannes Bjarnason and Andrea Johanna
Olafsdottir had all received less than 10 percent of the vote
according to the latest count.  The country is now in the midst of negotiating membership
with the  European Union , which is opposed by a majority, and is
also struggling to unwind  capital controls  in place to protect
the krona since 2008. At the same time, parliament is debating
changes to the constitution that would increase the powers of
the President and give voters greater opportunities to demand
referendums on debated subject matters.  The country’s economy will expand 3 percent this year and
3.9 percent in 2013, according to Icelandic lender  Arion Bank
hf . The output of the 17 countries sharing the euro will
contract 0.3 percent in 2012, before growing 1 percent in 2013,
the  European Commission  said on May 11.  “Let’s not forget that there’s an economic crisis still
engulfing some of the countries around us and there are
turbulent times ahead in Icelandic politics,” Grimsson said.
“Among them are the revision of the constitution of Iceland and
the European Union membership.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  