-- Tiger Woods Passes Nicklaus’s Win Total With Third Title of 2012
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-07-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/tiger-woods-wins-at-t-national-for-third-pga-tour-title-of-2012.html
Tiger Woods trails only  Sam Snead  in
career U.S.  PGA Tour  wins after surpassing  Jack Nicklaus ’s total
with a two-shot victory at the AT&T National.  Woods, 36, shot a 2-under-par 69 during yesterday’s final
round at Congressional Country Club in Bethesda, Maryland, to
become the first golfer to win three PGA Tour events in a season
since  Jim Furyk  in 2010.  Woods finished with a four-round total of 8 under 276, two
better than Bo Van Pelt, who bogeyed the final three holes. It
was the third win in the past seven starts for Woods, pushing
his total to 74 victories in 271 starts as a professional. Only
Snead, with 82 wins, has more.  “I remember there was a time when people were saying I
could never win again,” Woods, who received $1.17 million, said
yesterday at a news conference. “That was, I think, what, six
months ago? Here we are.”  Woods, who remains fourth in golf’s Official World Ranking,
in March ended a 2 1/2-year winless drought on the PGA Tour with
a victory at the Arnold Palmer Invitational and followed it up
with a win at the Memorial Tournament in June.  Hunter Mahan  and
 Jason Dufner  are the only two other golfers with multiple titles
on the U.S. tour this season.  “It was just a matter of time,” Woods said. “I could see
the pieces coming together. If you look at my ball-striking so
far this year, it’s gotten more and more consistent.”  Woods, whose foundation hosts the AT&T National, shot 1-
over-par 72 in the opening round and then followed it up with
scores of 68, 67 and 69.  No Fans  Fans had been prohibited from attending the tournament
during the third round because of a storm that had knocked out
power and uprooted trees both on the course and along the roads
leading to Congressional, which had hosted the 2011 U.S. Open.  With the galleries back for yesterday’s final round, Woods
had three birdies to move atop the leaderboard before making his
lone bogey at the par-5 16th hole.  Van Pelt , who was seeking his second PGA Tour win, also
bogeyed the 16th and then fell out of a share for the lead with
his bogeys at the final two holes.  After his final-round 71, Van Pelt said Woods appears
comfortable with the swing changes he’s implemented. While Luke Donald, Rory McIlroy and  Lee Westwood  remain ahead of Woods in
the rankings, Van Pelt said Woods has regained his status as the
world’s best golfer.  Van Pelt Praise  “No offense to any of those other guys, but I think he’s
the only guy to win three tournaments on tour this year, on
three different courses, and he was leading the U.S. Open after
two days,” Van Pelt said. “I’d say that he’s playing the best
golf in the world right now.”  Adam Scott  finished third at 5-under par, one shot better
than  Robert Garrigus , Jhonattan Vegas, Seung-Yul Noh and Billy
Hurley III. Brendon de Jonge, who had a one-shot lead entering
the final round, closed with a 6-over 77 to tie for 11th place.  The PGA Tour next moves to White Sulphur Springs in  West
Virginia  for the $6.1 million Greenbrier Classic from July 5-8.
It will be  Woods’s final event  before the British Open, the
season’s third major, which is scheduled for July 19-22 at Royal
Lytham & St. Annes in northwest England.  “I’m going to play next week, and then I’m going to have
to start practicing some different shots and getting used to
hitting the ball a little bit lower, a little bit more
flighted,” said Woods, who won the last of his 14 major
championships at the 2008  U.S. Open . “It’s a totally different
game playing links golf.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  