-- High Court Gives Obama and Romney Some Explaining to Do
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-07-01T15:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/high-court-gives-obama-and-romney-some-explaining-to-do.html
Shortly after the  Supreme Court ’s
historic health-care decision,  Barack Obama  and  Mitt Romney 
appeared before the cameras to offer their spin. Neither took
questions.  For weeks, both men methodically calibrated their response
to what was the most eagerly anticipated pre-election high court
decision ever. The ruling settles the law, not the politics.  The outcome poses challenges for both presidential
contenders. Obama’s claim that it means the country “can’t
refight” the law is a pipedream. Romney will be held
accountable for his strong inconsistencies on health care and
refusal to offer serious alternatives.  The five-to-four decision upholding the central tenet of
Obamacare, as Republicans call it, was a better result for the
Democrats. If things had gone the other way, Romney could have
credibly charged that Obama wasted two years on an
unconstitutional measure, instead of focusing on the economy.  Yet Chief Justice  John Roberts , while handing the White
House an overall victory, created new problems for Obama’s re-
election, declaring the law’s requirement that most Americans
obtain health insurance or face a penalty was akin to a tax.
That undercuts the president’s vow not to raise taxes on
working-class Americans.  ‘Tax Increase’  It was only moments after the ruling that the  Republican
National Committee  began condemning a “tax increase on the
middle class.” Romney called it a “job-killer.” Florida
Senator Marco Rubio raised the specter of Internal Revenue
Service agents looking into Americans’ health-care choices.  In response, the president will argue that the law is a  tax
cut  as it would provide tax credits as incentive to purchase
health care. Taxes aren’t comfortable debating terrain for
Obama.  In the two years since the passage of the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act, the legislation’s official
name, the White House has done a miserable job explaining it and
enlisting public support.  The same dilemma will continue: The focus on health care is
a distraction from the priorities of the economy and jobs. That
probably provides Romney an opening.  Still, the presumptive Republican nominee faces tough
questions, too. He and most congressional Republicans have vowed
to “repeal and replace” the health-care law. Romney says he’ll
do away with it on his first day in office; Jan. 20 could be
busy for him, as he also has vowed to repeal the financial-
regulatory law and to declare  China  a currency manipulator on
that day.  There is a huge void with the “replace” commitment that
the Romney campaign calculates it can finesse until after the
election.  A vigilant press will make that impossible, which is one of
the reasons the Republican nominee is so inaccessible. An
example: Romney has said he would want to make sure that
Americans with preexisting conditions don’t lose their current
health insurance. What he doesn’t say is that he wouldn’t keep
the provision ensuring this protection in the current law, which
precludes insurance companies from discriminating against such
people. What would he do? Simply say tough luck to people with
disabilities?  He still hasn’t explained why he has shifted his views on a
mandate requiring health insurance. This requirement was the
defining characteristic of the plan he pushed through as
governor of  Massachusetts , which served as a model for Obama’s
plan. Romneycare imposed stiff penalties -- at one stage more
than $1,000 per person -- for those who could afford health
insurance and didn’t get it. Was that a tax increase?  Fine Distinction  The Republican nominee tries to make the distinction that a
mandate is fine on the state level but unconstitutional and bad
policy on the federal level. That’s a distinction most voters
don’t get.  During his 1994 bid to unseat Senator Edward M. Kennedy,
Romney supported the Senate Republicans’ alternative to
President  Bill Clinton ’s health-care initiative. The centerpiece
of that proposal was an individual mandate. In 2007, well before
Obama switched his position and backed the mandate, Romney said
it was “a terrific idea.”  Former Senator  Rick Santorum , a contender for the
Republican presidential nomination, said this week that
“health-care costs in Massachusetts are the number one in the
country.” The program, he concluded, “doesn’t work.” Does
Romney disagree?  Political calculations on both sides, are oversimplified.
The Democrats’ assumption that voters will give the president
credit for a major achievement and overlook some of the concerns
that have yet to be explained isn’t supported by public-opinion
surveys.  Republicans argue that the renewed health-care debate will
energize right-wing Tea Party activists, just as it did in the
2010 elections. Before the June 28 announcement, they insisted
this group was already fully energized.  Polls and conversations indicate that voters want to learn
more. The majority of Americans has real concerns about the
impact of this law and certainly don’t relish the prospect of
higher taxes. At the same time, only a minority of hardcore
conservatives -- about a third of the electorate -- wants to see
the law simply repealed; voters in the middle are more
interested in hearing about the replace part of the Republican
slogan.  Romney and Obama had a free ride last week. For the next
four months, as boxing legend Joe Louis once said, they can run
but they cannot hide.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is Washington editor at Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 