-- Limits on Spending Power Seen as Health Ruling’s Legacy
-- B y   B o b   D r u m m o n d
-- 2012-07-01T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/limits-on-spending-power-seen-as-health-ruling-s-legacy.html
The Supreme Court decision upholding
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law has drawn attention for
limiting Congress’s authority over interstate commerce, yet
constitutional scholars say its biggest impact may be a curb on
lawmakers’ ability to alter state Medicaid funding.  The justices on June 28  upheld  the core of the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act, which says Americans must
have health insurance or pay a penalty. The court ruled that
while Congress doesn’t have power under the Constitution’s
Commerce Clause to make Americans buy health policies, it can
tax people who don’t have coverage.  While the rest of the health-care decision was decided on
5-4 votes among the justices, a 7-2 majority said that while
Congress may put conditions on the use of money provided for
expanded Medicaid programs, it couldn’t take away existing
Medicaid funding from states that don’t participate.  “The holding on the Medicaid expansion could be
significant,” said Jenny Martinez, a Stanford University law
professor. “It could limit the federal government’s ability to
change or expand spending programs once they have been in place
for a while and have reached a significant scale.”  Martinez said that the justices’ Commerce Clause finding
probably wouldn’t be far-reaching. “There aren’t so many laws,
after all, that are similar to the Affordable Care Act in
regulating so-called inaction,” she said in an e-mail.  Claim Validated  Congress’s authority to regulate interstate commerce
provides the constitutional foundation for many federal laws,
creating high stakes whenever the issue hits the  Supreme Court .  Opponents of the health-care law said after the ruling
that, while they failed to derail the insurance requirement, the
section of the high court’s decision on the commerce power
represented a victory in a long-running legal argument over
limits on Congress’s regulatory authority.  The ruling “validates our claim that a congressional power
to compel that all Americans engage in commerce was a
constitutional bridge too far,” Georgetown University law
professor  Randy Barnett  said in a statement.  While the court ultimately upheld the law, the decision
“is a tremendous victory for re-establishing constitutional
limits on the power of the federal government,”  Wisconsin ’s
Republican Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen said in a statement.  ‘Modest Limitation’  Still, the specific limits outlined in the health-care
decision -- that Congress can’t make Americans buy something
they don’t want -- may not do much to tie the government’s hands
down the road,  University of Michigan  law professor Richard
Friedman said.  That “modest limitation” on Congress’s power to regulate
interstate commerce is followed, in Chief Justice  John Roberts ’s
decision, by a constitutional road map showing lawmakers how
they can use the government’s taxing authority get around it,
Friedman said in an e-mail.  “All it really does is say that the commerce power doesn’t
authorize Congress to require people to buy goods or services --
but this is the first time Congress has felt the need to do
so,” he said. “If the need should ever arise again -- it’s
highly unlikely that Congress will ever feel the need to require
people to buy broccoli -- Congress can achieve much of the same
result by imposing a tax, and making sure it looks like a tax.”  Gun to Head  The separate section of the decision -- in which Roberts
wrote that Congress can’t use federal funding as a “gun to the
head” to force states to expand Medicaid eligibility -- “is
the most important part of the decision” in terms of future
implications, said Anne Joseph O’Connell, a law professor at the
University of California at Berkeley.  Justices Stephen Breyer and  Elena Kagan , two Democratic
appointees, joined the five justices picked by Republican
presidents in putting a new restriction on Congress’s spending
power.  “It appears that seven justices have come to the
conclusion that some federal grants to the states have become
such an integral part of our political system that threatening
to withhold them has gone beyond Congress merely putting
conditions on money that it offers and crossed the line into
coercion,” Friedman said.  While the health-care law, designed to expand health-
insurance coverage to millions of uninsured Americans, is the
only time the federal government has required people to buy
something, Congress often requires state and local governments
to comply with policy restrictions as a condition for receiving
federal money. Courts have generally given the U.S. government
leeway to attach strings dictating the ways that federal dollars
can be spent.  Drinking Age  The Supreme Court in 1987 upheld a law that withheld some
federal highway funding from states that didn’t raise their
legal drinking age to at least 21. The court in that case said
conditions on federal funding could, hypothetically, become so
pervasive that state governments had no realistic choice but to
comply -- a situation that could infringe state sovereignty. The
health-care decision marked the first time the justices actually
held that a federal program was too coercive.  “This is the first time that they put any teeth” into
what previously had been a largely academic debate about limits
on Congress’s spending power, Jesse Choper, a law professor at
the  University of California  at Berkeley, said in a telephone
interview. “In many ways that is the most significant part of
the decision.”  Title IX  Congress has used conditions on federal funding as a policy
tool in many areas. The law known as Title IX, for example, says
that schools getting federal money must provide equal athletic
opportunities for women. Some federal funding for schools and
libraries requires them to install Internet filters to block
obscene material. The No Child Left Behind law said states had
to implement specific education reforms as a condition for
getting federal funds.  “The inability to cut down on existing programs in order
to force states to take on new responsibilities does indicate
that, in federal-state relations, the Congress has fewer powers
than most had supposed,” Richard Epstein, a professor at  New
York  University, said in an e-mail.  While restricting Congress’s legal reach under its commerce
and spending authority, the high court ultimately upheld the
insurance requirement under the constitutional power to levy
taxes.  That holding, in fact, “could lead to a greater expansion
of federal power than if they had upheld it under the  Commerce
Clause ,”  New York University  law professor Barry Friedman said
in a telephone interview. The court struck down “an expansion
of the commerce power that wasn’t going to be used very often”
and, in its place, backed a broad interpretation of what
Congress can accomplish with taxes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Drummond in Washington at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  