-- Linde to Buy Lincare Holdings for $3.8 Billion in Stock
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l
-- 2012-07-02T13:33:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/linde-to-buy-respiratory-care-company-lincare-for-3-8-billion.html
Linde AG (LIN)  agreed to acquire  Lincare
Holdings Inc. (LNCR)  for about $3.8 billion to add U.S. oxygen and
respiratory therapy services delivered to the home, in the
German company’s biggest acquisition since 2006.  Linde will pay $41.50 a share for Lincare, using a loan and
a share sale of as much as 1.5 billion euros ($1.9 billion), the
Munich, Germany-based industrial-gas supplier said today. That’s
64 percent more than the price on June 26, before a media report
on talks between the companies. Linde shares fell as much as 5
percent in Frankfurt trading.  Chief Executive Officer Wolfgang Reitzle has made health
care a growth area and agreed to buy  Air Products & Chemicals
Inc. (APD) ’s home-care business in January. The Lincare purchase
reunites two business linked a century ago and will double
Linde’s North American gases sales. Reitzle said he tracked
Lincare as a potential target for five years and was aware of
rival interest. In the end, negotiations were speedy, he said.  “We think the deal makes sense,” said Markus Mayer, an
analyst at Kepler in Munich. “The multiples are not cheap.
Therefore, we didn’t expect a positive share price reaction for
Linde today.”  Linde declined as much as 6.1 euros, or 5 percent, to
116.55 euros in  Frankfurt , the biggest drop since September. The
shares traded at 120 euros as of 2:55 p.m.  Trip to U.S.   Reitzle said he will spend the next 10 days or so meeting
with key Lincare investors, as well as analysts. Its board
unanimously backs the transaction, though there is no pre-
agreement among Lincare investors to tender their shares. A
counter bid isn’t expected, he said.  Based on estimates for 2012, Linde is paying 8.93 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
compared with a median of 8.4 times, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It’s unlikely to recover its cost of capital
before 2015,  Bank of America  Merrill Lynch analyst Laurent Favre
said.  The total price is $4.6 billion including about $800
million in assumed debt, said Matthias Dachwald, a spokesman for
Linde. The transaction will be paid for mainly with a $4.5
billion loan that will be refinanced through debt and equity
issuances, with expected completion in the fiscal third quarter.  Morgan Stanley and Perella Weinberg Partners advised Linde.
JP Morgan advised Lincare.  Reunited  The transaction reunites two distant corporate cousins
after almost a century apart. Carl von Linde, who founded his
German firm in 1879, created a related U.S. company known as
Linde Air Products with partners in 1907, according to a history
of Linde on the  company’s website . Union Carbide Corp. acquired
the U.S. operation in 1917. It later created a unit called Linde
Homecare Medical Systems, subsequently shortened to Lincare.  Union Carbide sold Lincare to a group of investors in 1990,
and they sold shares to the public in 1992.  Linde generated about 18 percent of its 300 million euros
in home-care sales from the Americas last year, out of a market
valued at 4 billion euros. Analysts  estimate  Lincare sales will
increase 10 percent this year to $2.04 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The medical-gas market will grow 50 percent to 16 billion
euros by 2020, according to the German company.  The Lincare purchase is Linde’s biggest since it bought BOC
Group Ltd. in 2006 for about $16 billion. That acquisition
trimmed to four the number of larger industrial gas companies,
making further consolidation possible only in specialty areas.  The biggest competitors in the U.S. home respiratory market
for Linde will be smaller, independent firms. Lincare was the
biggest with 26 percent of the 2009 respiratory market, followed
by Apria Healthcare Group Inc.,  Rotech Healthcare Inc. (ROHI) , and
American Homepatient Inc., according to a 2010 presentation by
Rotech.  Apria is owned by the private-equity firm  Blackstone Group
LP (BX) , and Highland Capital Management LP owns American
Homepatient.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel in Berlin at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  