-- Insider Trading Thrives as Japan Drags Its Feet
-- B y   R o b e r t   B o x w e l l
-- 2012-07-01T15:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/insider-trading-thrives-as-japan-drags-its-feet.html
Last month, lawmakers from the ruling
 Democratic Party  of  Japan  announced they will convene a panel to
figure out how to stop an insider-trading problem they have been
working on since 2006. Traders, operating on inside information,
have been short selling shares of companies just before new
equity sales are announced, which often causes the company’s
share price to fall, then covering their short position by
buying shares back at the new, lower price.  The lawmakers’ proposed solution is to cut the length of
time between the announcement and the sale of equities to four
days from the current 15.  Six years, and all they have come up with is a nonsolution.  Once a share issuance has been announced, subsequent
transactions aren’t  insider trading  anyway. Even ignoring that
reality, four days is still about 3 1/2 days longer than the
market needs to re-calculate a share’s value. And what impact
would the shorter period have on insider trading ahead of
company-earnings announcements? M&A deals? Securing or losing a
big contract?  None.  It’s hard to conclude that Japan’s lawmakers are really
interested in cleaning up insider trading.  Wrist Slaps  The country’s white-collar scandals are almost as legendary
as the slaps on the wrist given to the crooks. In a rare case
that actually led to a prison term, Takafumi Horie, the chief
executive officer of the internet company Livedoor Co., was
sentenced to 2 1/2 years for cooking his company’s books. This
had little deterrent effect, however, because so many people
figure his real crime was wearing a T-shirt while trying to take
over venerable Nippon Broadcasting. Yoshiaki Murakami, a  fund
manager  who made about $30 million on insider trades related to
the Livedoor excitement, paid fines amounting to only about a
third of that and his prison sentence was suspended.  Last year, Olympus Corp. revealed that its management had
conspired to cover up almost $2 billion in losses dating to the
early 1990s. The man who blew the whistle,  Michael Woodford , the
company’s CEO, was  sacked and vilified , then  vindicated  --
though you wouldn’t guess that by the company’s unbroken
hostility toward him. Two of the directors who rubber-stamped
the board’s unanimous vote to fire Woodford have  kept their
management roles .  In Japan, white-collar crimes are usually wrapped up with a
statement of extreme regret, an occasional fine and not much
else. And inside traders know it.  Since 2005, when Japan’s Securities and Exchanges
Surveillance Commission announced a “crackdown” on individual
inside traders, it  has fined  121 people a total of just 268
million yen ($3.4 million), about $28,000, apiece. The four
people  arrested  in Yokohama for insider trading last week made
alleged profits of 2.4 million yen -- a tiny fraction of
Murakami’s profits on Livedoor. They can’t be too worried about
prison time. And since March, when the commission announced a
separate crackdown on major financial firms, it  fined  First  New
York  Securities LLC 4.7 million yen, but at the same time fined
three local firms only 260,000 yen. Why bother?  The most effective way to reduce insider trading in Japan
would be to put some high-profile people convicted of the crime
in prison.  Hong Kong  started doing this in 2009, and has since
handed down a half-dozen prison sentences, including a  seven-
year term  for ex-Morgan Stanley banker Du Jun.  This may help explain why insider trading before merger-
and-acquisition announcements in Hong Kong appears to have
decreased in 2010 and even more in 2011, as Maeen Shaban, a
doctoral candidate at the University of  Malaysia , and I have
recently found, after a yearlong study. There may not be a
perfect cause and effect at work here, but imprisonment is a
much greater deterrent than a fine, especially when the fine is
so low as to allow inside traders to keep a good portion of
their illegal profits.  Prosecution Wins  In the U.S. since 2009, prosecutors have won more than 60
convictions or guilty pleas related to insider trading, with
most penalties measured in years. U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
has said federal investigators are looking at  240 more cases  and
are likely to file criminal charges in half of them. After last
month’s  conviction  of former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. director
 Rajat Gupta  on three counts of  securities fraud  and one of
conspiracy, don’t be surprised if many of these end in guilty
pleas.  Prosecutors in the U.K. have also won prison terms, most
recently a  four-year sentence  given to  James Sanders , founder of
now-defunct Blue Index Ltd. The U.K.’s Financial Services
Authority has also imposed meaningful fines, including one for
7.2 million pounds ($11.2 million) against hedge fund Greenlight
Capital and its owner  David Einhorn . By the FSA’s calculation,
Greenlight avoided losses of approximately 5.8 million pounds by
shorting Punch Taverns Plc ahead of its announcement that new
equity would be issued -- precisely the kind of transaction that
Japan’s lawmakers are looking at.  Yet Japan dithers. Tsutomu Okubo, another ex-Morgan Stanley
banker and leader of the Democratic Party of Japan’s panel on
insider trading,  told  Bloomberg News, “We need to discuss how to
make the Tokyo market attractive again. We should stamp out this
environment that has given investors the desire to conduct
insider trading.” That would sound more promising if it weren’t
going to take the panel until next year to submit any proposed
changes to parliament, and if there were reason to hope those
changes would go beyond merely  increasing fines .  There are more than 125 million wonderful people in Japan
who have long tolerated a small number of crooks. They cannot
keep looking away from crime in and around the  capital markets .
If long-term investors continue to find the game is rigged,
Japan, with the world’s highest per-capita debt and an aging
population, will suffer as those investors head for the exits.  Crisis produces action, and lawmakers as well as financial
regulators in the U.S., U.K. and Hong Kong have done their jobs
well in the past few years. Japan’s are failing. It’s not enough
to form groups to hold meetings to plan agendas for discussions
about proposals to be submitted sometime next year. Japan’s
lawmakers could pass insider-trading laws with teeth next week.
What are they waiting for?  (Robert Boxwell is director of the consulting company Opera
Advisors, based in  Kuala Lumpur . The opinions expressed are his
own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on ways to  strengthen the
health-care-reform law  and on  Europe’s banking deal ; William D.
Cohan on  Wall Street’s municipal-bond scam ;  Noah Feldman  on the
 constitutional right to lie ;  Albert Hunt  on the  politics of the
health-care ruling ;  Pankaj Mishra  on  redefining the idea of
Europe ; Robert Frichtel on rules for  medical marijuana and
driving .  To contact the writer of this article:
Robert Boxwell at  Bob@RobertBoxwell.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  