-- Iran-Oil Sanctions Risk Biggest OPEC Export Loss Since Libya
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-07-02T10:45:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/iran-oil-sanctions-risk-biggest-opec-export-loss-since-libya.html
European Union sanctions on  Iran 
entered into full force yesterday after exemptions on some
contracts and insurance ended, adding pressure on crude prices
to rise and on the Persian Gulf nation to halt its nuclear-
enrichment program.  The reduction in Iranian exports may become the biggest
supply disruption from a member of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries since an armed rebellion all but  halted 
pumping in Libya last year, according to the  International
Energy Agency . It also comes as a strike by Norwegian workers is
curbing flows from North Sea fields.  “We expect Brent oil prices to be supported by Iranian oil
sanctions and potential loss of supplies from the North Sea,”
 Gordon Kwan , the head of regional energy research at Mirae Asset
Securities based in  Hong Kong , said in a June 28 report. “The
imminent EU insurance ban on tankers carrying Iranian crude
could drive up demand for Brent and Dubai crude.”  Brent futures fell below $90 a barrel on June 21 for the
first time in 18 months on concern that Europe’s debt crisis may
spread and sap fuel use. Now, the Iran embargo and Norwegian
strike are stoking speculation about a rebound in prices,
according to analysts such as Kwan and Ole Hansen at Saxo Bank
A/S. Brent for August settlement surged 7 percent on June 29 to
close at $97.80 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange, the
biggest one-day increase since April 2, 2009, when prices jumped
9 percent. Brent slid to $95.77 today.  Unsold Barrels  Iran, the second-biggest producer in OPEC after  Saudi
Arabia , was  producing  about 3.3 million barrels a day in May.
Full implementation of sanctions will remove about 1 million
barrels a day during the second half of the year as buyers
disappear and Iranian  storage tanks  become full, the Paris-based
IEA forecast in a June 13 report.  Mohammad Ali Khatibi, Iran’s governor to OPEC, warned
yesterday that the EU would bear “the consequences of
politicizing the market,” without specifying what he meant, the
state-run Iranian Students News Agency reported.  Mahmoud Bahmani, Iran’s central bank governor, said his
nation “isn’t sitting by idly” and has a “very suitable”
$150 billion in foreign currency reserves to help weather the
latest trade and financial curbs. “We have programs to fight
the sanctions, and we will confront hostile policies,” Bahmani
said yesterday, according to the state-run Mehr  news agency .  Intensified Pressure  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said Iran will face
increasing pressure from sanctions aimed at its nuclear program.
Complementing the European restrictions is a U.S. law enacted
Dec. 31 that cuts off international banks from the U.S.
financial system if they settle oil trades with Iran. The U.S.
rule gave importing nations, including China,  India  and  Japan ,
until June 28 to demonstrate they had “significantly reduced”
their purchases of Iranian oil in order to qualify for
exemptions.  “The pressure track is our primary focus now, and we
believe that the economic sanctions are bringing Iran to the
table,” Clinton said in an interview with Bloomberg Radio in
Geneva on June 30. “They are going to continue to increase and
cause economic difficulties” for the country, she said.  Iran’s economy has deteriorated amid the punitive measures,
which have weakened the national currency and pushed up costs
that were already surging after the government started removing
energy and food subsidies a year and a half ago. Inflation
accelerated to 22.2 percent in the 12 months ended May 20, the
 Central Bank  said.  Shrinking Economy  The  World Bank  forecast in a June 12 report that Iran’s
$480 billion economy will shrink by 1 percent this year and 0.7
percent in 2013.  The EU agreed in January to ban oil imports from Iran,
offering a five-month phase-in period for existing contracts to
let  member states  such as  Greece  find alternative supplies. An
exemption on tanker insurance restrictions for the worldwide
shipping industry also ran out yesterday.  Foreign ministers from the 27-nation bloc decided on June
25 the exemptions shouldn’t be extended after talks between Iran
and the world’s powers about the nuclear program failed to reach
a breakthrough since they started in April. Iran denies that it
is developing nuclear weapons.  ‘Toughest Measures’  “These are the toughest measures the EU has adopted
against Iran to date,” U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague 
said yesterday in a statement. “It is in the power of the
Iranian leadership to end Iran’s current isolation, but unless
they change course, the pressure will only increase.”  The EU ban on insurance for ships carrying Iranian oil
affects 95 percent of the world’s tankers because they’re
covered by the 13 members of the London-based  International
Group  of P&I Clubs, which is adhering to the EU rule.  In an effort to retain an important Asian customer, Iran
offered to supply oil to South Korea using its own tankers, a
government official in  Seoul  said June 29, asking not to be
identified because the matter is confidential.  Oil and its derivatives account for nearly 80 percent of
Iran’s exports and about half of government revenue, according
to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, which estimates
the country’s 2010 net oil export revenues at $73 billion.  Iran’s oil exports may “gradually” decline by 20 percent
to 30 percent after sanctions start and amid field maintenance
work, Deputy Oil Minister Ahmad Qalebani said on June 26.  Hormuz Missiles  Such acknowledgment hasn’t erased tensions over the
sanctions. Iran warned it can strike any target in the  Strait of
Hormuz  and the Gulf and will soon equip ships with missiles
capable of firing more than 300 kilometers (186 miles), Mehr
reported June 29, citing a commander of the Islamic
Revolutionary Guards Corps. Tankers carrying about a fifth of
globally traded oil exit the Gulf though the Hormuz chokepoint.  “The Strait of Hormuz and the Persian Gulf is Iran’s
playground and no one else’s,” Mehr cited Admiral Ali Fadavi as
saying. “Any issues related to the Strait of Hormuz will be a
very big story that will have consequences on the price of
oil.”  A survey of 42 analysts on June 28 showed that 16, or 38
percent of them, predicted crude futures will increase in the
week starting today, citing the new sanctions. Among the
remainder, 12 forecast little change in prices and 14 expected a
decline.  “That is the wildcard, the Iranian situation,” Torbjoern Kjus, an oil analyst at Oslo-based bank  DnB ASA (DNB) , said by phone
on June 29.  ‘Huge’ Inventories  “Nobody can be totally certain how it’s really going to
affect the market,” he said. “There’s probably been huge
inventory builds in Iran, and this could pose a bearish effect
for next year or the second half of this year if there is a
resolution.”  Iran urged OPEC to call an emergency meeting to address the
group’s production in excess of its targeted 30 million barrels
a day, Mehr reported June 30, citing Oil Minister Rostam Qasemi.
Disregard of the limit by some OPEC members “will negatively
impact  oil prices  in the international market,” Qasemi said.  The 12-member organization, which decided on June 14 to
retain its daily ceiling of 30 million barrels, pumped about 1.6
million barrels more than that in May, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  