-- Hiring Probably Cooled in Second Quarter: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-07-01T04:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/hiring-probably-cooled-in-second-quarter-u-s-economy-preview.html
The jobs tally in June probably
crowned the weakest quarter for employment in more than two
years, evidence the U.S. recovery has lost momentum, economists
said before reports this week.  Employers increased payrolls by 90,000 workers last month
after a 69,000 gain in May, according to the median forecast of
59 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of Labor
Department figures due July 6. Excluding government agencies,
private hiring may have climbed by 100,000, concluding the
smallest quarterly advance since the first three months of 2010.  The job slump has shaken confidence and stalled household
spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy,
making the expansion more susceptible to any fallout from the
 European debt crisis . Slowing consumer and global demand is also
leading to a cooling in manufacturing, a mainstay of the
recovery, another report this week may show.  “We really need to see  job creation  pick up, which is the
only thing that’s going to get households spending on a
sustained basis,” said  Paul Dales , a senior U.S. economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in  London . “The economy isn’t going to
get exceptionally weak from here, but neither is it going to get
much stronger.”  The  unemployment rate , derived from a separate Labor
Department survey of households, probably held at 8.2 percent,
the economists predicted. Joblessness has exceeded 8 percent
since February 2009, the longest stretch in monthly records
dating to 1948.  Slower Growth  The expansion has lost luster. Gross domestic product rose
at a 1.9 percent annual rate in the first quarter following a 3
percent rate in the prior three months, Commerce Department data
showed last week. While household spending underpinned last
quarter’s gain, incomes stretched by weak job creation will
probably limit growth prospects.  Stronger economic growth and diminished joblessness would
bolster President  Barack Obama ’s re-election prospects as
November draws nearer. Obama attributed the weakness in job
growth in May primarily to European governments’ inadequate
response to the continent’s debt crisis, saying “our biggest
challenge is not here in the U.S. but the economy overseas.”
Republican candidate  Mitt Romney  said Obama “is always quick to
find someone to blame” for the struggling economy.  Stocks surged on June 29, capping the biggest June gain
since 1999, after European leaders reached an agreement that
alleviated concern banks will fail. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index climbed 4 percent last month.  Manufacturing Cools  Manufacturing may also offer less support to the economy as
domestic and global demand fades. The Institute for Supply
Management Inc.’s  factory index  fell to 52 in June, the lowest
level in eight months, from 53.5 the prior month, according to
the Bloomberg survey median ahead of a report tomorrow. A
reading greater than 50 signals expansion.  The purchasing managers group’s services index, which
covers almost 90 percent of the economy, fell to 53 last month
from 53.7 in May, a report on July 5 may show according to
economists surveyed.  To spur a faster expansion and lower unemployment, Federal
Reserve policy makers announced on June 20 they would buy
securities to extend the maturities of assets on the bank’s
balance sheet, thereby lowering longer-term  interest rates .  They also lifted forecasts for joblessness, anticipating
the  unemployment rate  will average 8 percent to 8.2 percent in
the fourth quarter of this year versus an April estimate of 7.8
percent to 8 percent.  “There is a lot of uncertainty in almost all markets today
caused by low growth rates and high unemployment in the U.S. and
slower or no growth globally,” Joseph Pyne, chairman and chief
executive officer of  Kirby Corp. (KEX) , said during a June 25 call
with analysts. Shares have slumped 7.9 percent since the
shipping company cuts its earnings forecast that week.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  