-- Japan Tankan Improves Even as Yen Gain Limits Exports
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-07-02T00:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/japan-tankan-confidence-improves-even-as-yen-gains-cap-exports.html
Japan ’s large manufacturers became
less pessimistic as declines in commodity prices aided
profitability, boosting the outlook for the world’s third-
biggest economy even as a stronger yen crimps exports.  The quarterly  Tankan index  of sentiment was minus 1 in June
from minus 4 in March, the  Bank of Japan  said today in Tokyo.
The median estimate of 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
was for a reading of minus 4. A negative number means pessimists
outnumber optimists.  Bank of Japan (8301)  policy makers meeting on July 11 and 12 will
weigh whether improved sentiment and progress in tackling
Europe’s debt crisis are enough to warrant withholding further
stimulus. Today’s report showed large Japanese businesses see
their  capital spending  rising 6.2 percent in the year ending
March, up from a previous forecast of no change.  “Today’s data won’t deliver relief to the Bank of Japan,”
said  Takeshi Minami , chief economist in Tokyo at Norinchukin
Research Institute Co., who correctly forecast the minus 1
reading and predicts the central bank will expand its asset
purchases. “It’s increasingly unclear that global demand, which
is key for Japan’s economy, can gain traction to lead the
recovery.”  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  rose 0.3 percent as of 9:38
a.m. in Tokyo after the gain in sentiment and an agreement by
European leaders on measures to ease the region’s debt crisis.  The gain in the Tankan is “a small improvement,” said
Minami. “Lower commodity prices probably helped sentiment inch
up but it’s still in negative territory.”  Yen’s Gains  The yen was Asia’s strongest-performing currency against
the dollar over the past three months, gaining about 3 percent
and adding to concern that the nation’s recovery will fade as
gains from earthquake reconstruction and car purchase subsidies
wear off. The currency traded at 79.77 per dollar as of 9:56
a.m. in  Tokyo .  “Manufacturers are alert to the renewed appreciation of
the yen due to Europe’s turmoil, making them cautious about the
economic outlook,” Kohei Okazaki, an economist at Nomura
Securities Co. in Tokyo, said before the report. “Further
monetary easing in July is still in the cards.”  Economic growth may cool to an annualized 1.9 percent in
the second and third quarters, and 1.4 percent in the final
three months of 2012, according to the average forecast of 40
economists in a Japan Center for Economic Research survey
released June 7. That compares with 4.7 percent in January-
through-March.  Toyoda’s Concerns  Subsidies for purchases of fuel-efficient cars and the
extra money budgeted for reconstruction of devastated
northeastern regions have boosted the world’s third-biggest
economy after it contracted last year.  Toyota Motor President  Akio Toyoda  said June 4 that the
stronger yen, the  European debt crisis  and a slowing U.S.
economy are among concerns facing Japan’s car industry. He spoke
as chairman of the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association.  Japan’s recovery after last year’s earthquake and tsunami
could grind to a halt in 2014 when the first increase in the
nation’s  sales tax  may take effect, according to UBS AG and
Itochu Corp. Parliament’s lower house last week approved Prime
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s bill to raise the sales tax to 8
percent and then 10 percent in 2015 from 5 percent now.  “The risk of further gains in the yen can’t be
dispelled,” said Seiji Adachi, a senior economist at Deutsche
Securities Inc. in Tokyo. “There’s concern that a slowdown in
 Europe  and  China  will reduce the volume of Japanese exports.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  