-- Kim Says World Bank’s First Priority Is to Aid Growth
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-07-02T20:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/kim-says-world-bank-s-first-priority-is-to-aid-growth.html
Jim Yong Kim, who took over as  World
Bank  president yesterday, said the lender is in a strong
financial position to meet loan demand from  emerging markets  if
the global economy deteriorates.  “We feel prepared to tackle crises” and the bank is
“monitoring the situation very carefully,” Kim told reporters
in  Washington  today. “Of course it all depends on the scale and
the severity of the crisis but the World Bank is on very sound
financial footing.”  The 52-year-old Kim, the former president of  Dartmouth
College , succeeds  Robert Zoellick  at the helm of a poverty-
fighting institution that has less leeway to boost lending than
it did four years ago. Kim, a physician by training, has little
time to ease into a job that stretches beyond his expertise as
global growth is threatened by the  European debt crisis  and a
slowdown in  China .  “This is about financial  crisis management ,
macroeconomics, understanding the workings of the European
monetary union and what the risks are and prioritizing
countries” according to their needs, said Uri Dadush, director
of international economics at the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace in Washington and a former World Bank
director of economic policy.  “It’s not rocket science but it will be a new area for
him, one in which he has no experience,” he said, predicting a
“steep learning curve” for Kim.  Rebuild Europe  The bank was created at the end of World War II to help
rebuild ravaged  Europe . Now focused on  developing countries , it
lends for everything from building roads to supporting education
policies, and has expanded its scope to taking stakes in
companies and guaranteeing investments.  Kim said he’s open to sharing technical expertise with
developed economies, including  Greece  if asked. That’s in
contrast to his predecessor, who said last month he had tried to
keep some distance from the country, where the European debt
crisis started.  “We only go into countries when we’re asked but I feel
that the kind of expertise we have could be relevant in many
countries in the world,” Kim said today. “My staff feel that
they have relevant experience that could have value.”  Kim, a graduate of  Harvard Medical School , breaks the mold
of past presidents, who have been drawn from government and
finance.  ‘Very Confident’  “I don’t bring one of the tools you might want; on the
other hand no one” has all the skills, he told reporters today.
“I feel very confident in our staff, in our leadership to be
able to deal with all the critical problems that we’re facing.”  A HIV/AIDS specialist who co-founded a non-profit
organization that has opened clinics in countries including
Haiti and  Peru , Kim said he has experience working with bank
employees in the field.  “I feel that I share a passion for development and poverty
alleviation with the World Bank staff,” he said. In a memo sent
to employees yesterday, he promised to listen and learn to keep
a “consistent and open engagement between the staff and the
president.”  Kim SAID that he has had many conversations with top
management in the past week about the bank’s finances, which he
described as on “solid ground.”  Still, the bank’s lending power is now more constrained
than four years ago after stepping up loans to emerging
countries hit by the financial crisis.  Capital Cushion  “We went into the 2008 crisis with a big cushion of
capital so we could expand in a way that we cannot just repeat
today,” said Joachim von Amsberg, the bank’s vice president of
operations policy and country services, in a June 26 interview.
The bank’s equity-to-loans  ratio  for the unit that lends to
governments fell last year to 29 percent from nearly 38 percent
in 2008.  Commitments climbed during the crisis to a record $73
billion in the fiscal year 2010 from $38 billion just two years
before, prompting the bank to seek a capital injection from
member countries, which it obtained in April 2010.  The additional cash and a gradual decline in lending to
about $53 billion in the year ended June 30 helped keep the
bank’s equity-to-loans ratio just above its target range.
Maintaining that level is important to keep its top  credit
rating , needed to raise money at low cost.  As a result, the bank is exploring ways to make the most of
its resources, von Amsberg said. While demand for loans hasn’t
yet increased, many countries are inquiring about precautionary
financing, similar to the $1.3 billion Romania received last
month, he said.  ‘Pivotal Moment’  Kim told reporters the global economy is at a “pivotal
moment” as he arrived for work today.  East Asia  may grow as little as 5 percent this year if
there are disorderly exits from the euro area, even as
governments have room to implement fiscal stimulus to spur the
economies if needed, according to the bank. The growth outlook
for the European Union’s eastern member has also soured as the
European turmoil undermines confidence.  Kim’s focus should go beyond the money to make sure the
bank remains welcome in the countries it serves, said Simon Evenett, a professor of international trade and economic
development at the  University of St. Gallen ,  Switzerland . Kim,
who was born in  Korea  and grew up in the U.S., has said he will
serve as a bridge to the developing world.  “You have to be invited to the party first and then you
can worry about how much money you want to spend on the bottle
of wine,” Evenett said in an interview. “This is not an easy
time for international organizations” which need leaders “who
can get heads of governments and presidents that answer their
phone calls and get things gone,” he said.  “This is the challenge for Dr. Kim.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  