-- Korea Bond Sales Fall 46% as Regulator Shifts Power to Investors
-- B y   T a e j i n   P a r k   a n d   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-07-02T03:03:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/korea-bond-sales-fall-50-as-regulator-shifts-power-to-investors.html
South Korea’s corporate bond sales
declined to the lowest amount in a year and a half after the
government allowed investors to have more power in setting the
pricing for new securities.  Korea Electric Power Corp. (KEP)  and Hyundai Merchant Marine Co.
sold fewer won-denominated notes last quarter as issuance fell
46 percent to 10.36 trillion won ($9.06 billion) from a record
19.2 trillion won in the first three months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on AA rated corporate debt dropped
to 3.69 percent in June, the lowest since November 2004,
according to Koscom Corp. prices. Comparable U.S. company costs
are 1.69 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Sales declined after the country’s top financial regulator
introduced a new rule on pricing to bring  Asia ’s second-largest
bond market outside of  Japan  into line with global standards.
Now that issuers have got used to it, sales may increase this
quarter as the central bank readies for its first  interest-rate 
cut in three years, following  China  and  India , according to
Woori Investment & Securities Co., the second-biggest
underwriter.  “The new rule, prior to its implementation, was seen as
unfavorable by issuers,” Kim Dae-Young, head of debt products
at Woori Investment, said in a June 26 interview in  Seoul .
“They have now become accustomed to the new system. The
benchmark rate will go down, which will bring down the spread,
and issues will pick up as the borrowers would want to take
advantage of that.”  Investor Demand  Since April 17, borrowers have been required to gauge
investors’ level of demand and desired pricing for a sale.
Before the regulation came into effect, buyers had to accept the
pricing terms set by the companies and arrangers without having
much input, Woori Investment’s Kim said.  “The main reason behind the drop in sales is the new rule.
Companies pre-funded a lot of capital before it took effect,”
Byun Jeong Hye, a credit analyst at Shinhan Investment Corp.,
said in a June 28 phone interview. “Companies have maturing
debt to refinance, which is the main purpose for borrowing right
now, as they are shunning new investments and mergers and
acquisitions amid an uncertain business environment.”  South Korea cut its growth estimate for this year and
announced 8.5 trillion won of spending to support the economy as
officials predict a protracted  European debt crisis . M&A
activity declined 26 percent to $11.7 billion last quarter, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bank of Korea  The  Bank of Korea  needs to reduce the official  bank rate 
soon to boost the country’s economic recovery in the second
half, Woori Investment said in a June 15 report. Policy makers
kept the benchmark interest rate at 3.25 percent for a 12th
straight month on June 8. China cut its benchmark lending and
deposit rates for the first time since 2008 on June 7, and
India’s central bank in April lowered its key rate.  Financial Services Commission Chairman Kim Seok Dong is
trying to boost the competitiveness of the South Korean
investment banking industry. He took office in January 2011 and
pledged deregulation, such as hedge-fund creation, while
demanding brokerages take greater responsibility for protecting
investors when underwriting securities.  “We’re closely monitoring how bond sales are done to make
sure the rules are followed,” Kim Mi Kyung, a spokeswoman at
the regulator, said in an e-mailed comment June 29.  Underwriter Role  “Now that the new rule is in place, we have to take on
more of a role so that both buyers and sellers are on a level
playing field,” Jung Il Mun, a senior executive managing
director at  Korea  Investment & Securities Co., the third-largest
underwriter this year, said June 29.  Bond sales increased in June after a lull in April and May,
the data show. Hyundai Merchant, Korea’s biggest shipping
company by market value, offered 330 billion won of 5.3 percent
five-year bonds at 90 basis points less than the 60 billion won
of similar-maturity 6.2 percent notes it sold in March,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It will take some time for the new rule to settle down,
but the market will eventually stabilize,” said Kim Youngsung,
head of fixed income at Samsung Asset Management Co., Korea’s
biggest fund manager, which oversees 124 trillion won. Samsung
Asset favored corporate debt for most of the year, but reduced
holdings as the premium over government debt began to widen in
June, Kim said.  Bond Premiums  The premium investors seek to own three-year AA rated
corporate bonds rather than similar-maturity government notes
fell to 41 basis points May 29, the narrowest since September
2007, according to Koscom, which compiles data from the
exchange, the investment association and ratings companies. The
spread widened 7 basis points to 49 basis points in June, the
data show.  South Korea ’s top 10 issuers, who sold a total of 8.92
trillion won of notes in the first half, have 7.8 trillion won
of debt maturing through December, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. State-owned utility Korea Electric Power, the biggest
borrower this year, has the equivalent of 2.2 trillion won of
debt outstanding in the second half, the data show.  “With many companies needing refinancing on their maturing
bonds, I expect issuance will pick up in the second half,”
Hwang Jae Hong, who oversees 12 trillion won as head of fixed
income at UBS Hana Asset Management Co., said in a June 18
interview in Seoul. “The bottom line is that demand for
corporate bonds still exceeds supply.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taejin Park in Seoul 
 tpark31@bloomberg.net ;
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  