-- Nippon Yusen to Double Logistics Sales on Shipping Slump
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-07-02T07:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/nippon-yusen-to-double-logistics-sales-on-sea-cargo-competition.html
Nippon Yusen K.K. (9101) , Japan’s largest
shipping line, intends to double sales at logistics operations
as global overcapacity depresses rates at sea-cargo units.  President Yasumi Kudo said freight-forwarding and
warehousing businesses led by unit  Yusen Logistics Co. (9370)  will
boost sales to 800 billion yen ($10 billion) within seven years.
Revenue at these operations, which bring profit margins of about
3 percent, may climb to 1 trillion yen, he said in a June 29
interview in  Tokyo , without giving a timeframe.  “We have a chance to make more money through logistics
than shipping,” he said. “Margins are small, but stable.”  The Tokyo-based company also intends to expand its car-
hauling business, particularly in Thailand, after its container-
ship unit had losses in two of the past three years.  Nippon
Yusen  has boosted cooperation with other container lines after
price wars and excess capacity caused industrywide losses last
year.  “It is a good strategy to have the forwarding business to
balance out the container-related operations,” said  Ryota Himeno , a Tokyo-based Barclays Plc analyst, who has an
overweight  rating  on Nippon Yusen. “Still, it will be tough to
reach 10 percent growth every year.”  Container Losses  The shipping company, which also has a cargo airline,
liquid natural gas vessels and cruise ships, made a net loss of
72.8 billion yen in the year ended March 31. The container line
made a current loss of 44.8 billion yen, while the logistics
business had a current profit of 9.3 billion yen, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  This fiscal year, the company expects an operating profit
of 50 billion yen, about triple that forecast by  Mitsui O.S.K.
Lines Ltd. (9104) ,  Japan ’s second-largest shipping line by sales.  Nippon Yusen rose 2.4 percent to 214 yen at the 3 p.m.
close of trading in Tokyo today, the biggest gain in two weeks.
It has climbed 8.6 percent this year, compared with a 4 percent
decline for Mitsui O.S.K.  “Our biggest concern is the container market,” Kudo said.
“Another slide into the red could send us into a tailspin.”  Auto Parts Demand  A key focus in bolstering Nippon Yusen’s logistics business
will be auto parts because of the growth of automaking in Asia,
Kudo said. The company is particularly targeting Thailand as
Japanese automakers move production to the country because of
lower wages and the strengthening yen, as well as China, India
and  Indonesia , he said. Local  auto production  will increase 44
percent to 2.1 million units this year, according to  Thailand ’s
Office of Industrial Economics.  “Demand for cars in Asia is booming,” Kudo said. “Intra-
Asia trade is by far the biggest growth market now.”  Yusen Logistics operates facilities in 37 countries,
offering services including storage, repackaging and inventory
management, according to its website.  The shipping line in December agreed to cooperate on Asia-
 Europe  container-shipping  routes  with five other lines through
the merger of two previous alliances as they coped with an
increase in carrying capacity.  The company and its partners currently have 11 container
ships serving Europe on a 77-day loop, which could increase to
13 vessels over 91 days, Kudo said.  Nippon Yusen may slow the speed of its  container ships  next
year as it starts to receive the first vessels capable of
carrying 13,000 20-foot containers, which may put further
pressure on shipping rates, Kudo said.  “The new engines on the vessels allow us to run them at
slower speeds than the first generation of super-large container
ships,” he said. “It could help cut fuel costs and give us a
competitive edge over earlier ships.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  