-- Oil Falls as Biggest Gain Since 2009 Prompts Selling
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-07-02T06:53:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/oil-little-changed-after-rising-most-in-three-years-on-europe.html
Oil fell in  New York  as investors
sold contracts to profit from the biggest price surge in three
years before reports today that may signal Europe’s economic
slump is deepening.  Futures declined as much as 1.6 percent after surging 9.4
percent on June 29. The jobless rate in the currency bloc
probably rose to 11.1 percent in May from 11 percent the prior
month, economists surveyed by Bloomberg News said before data
today. It would be the highest on record going back to 1990.
China’s manufacturing activity slowed in June, according to HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics. A European embargo on Iranian
oil started yesterday.  “I suspect all we’re seeing is a trimming of long
positions,” said  Michael McCarthy , a chief market strategist at
CMC Markets Asia Pacific Pty in Sydney, who predicts oil has
climbed to a trading zone of $82 a barrel to $88.50 a barrel.
“The question for the oil market is how effective these
sanctions will be.”  Crude for August delivery dropped as much as $1.34 to
$83.62 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $83.76 at 2:51 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract gained $7.27 on June 29 to $84.96, the highest close
since June 6. Prices decreased 18 percent last quarter, the most
since the final three months of 2008.  Brent oil for August settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures  Europe  exchange was down as much as $1.75, or 1.8
percent, at $96.05 a barrel. The European benchmark crude was at
a $12.87  premium  to New York contracts, from $12.84 on June 29.  Bullish Bets  Oil is paring gains today amid speculation Europe’s
slowdown is worsening as the region battles a debt crisis.
London-based Markit Economics may confirm its gauge of the euro
zone’s manufacturing was 44.8 in June on a final reading,
unchanged from an initial estimate, according to a separate poll
of economists. A level below 50 indicates contraction.  Prices surged June 29 on optimism the crisis may be
contained after leaders agreed to ease repayment rules for
emergency loans to Spanish banks and relax conditions on help
for  Italy .  Hedge funds  raised bullish oil bets for the first
time in eight weeks before the price rise, according to a weekly
report from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Crude’s jump brought prices in New York close to technical
resistance, prompting investors to sell futures. The August
contract has resistance at $85.33 a barrel, the 23.6 percent
Fibonacci retracement of the drop to last week’s intraday low of
$77.28 from the March 1 high of $111.38, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Sell orders tend to be clustered near
chart-resistance levels.  Iran Supplies  The EU banned the purchase, transportation, financing and
insurance of Iranian oil because of the Persian Gulf nation’s
nuclear program. The insurance embargo affects 95 percent of the
world’s tankers because they’re covered by the 13 members of the
London-based  International Group  of P&I Clubs.  Iran  was producing about 3.2 million barrels a day in May,
according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Full
implementation of sanctions will remove about 1 million barrels
a day during the second half of the year as buyers disappear and
Iranian  storage tanks  become full, the Paris-based  International
Energy Agency  forecast in a June 13 report.  “The impact of Iran’s oil embargo has already been
factored into the price, so there’s no reason the market should
react to the start of the sanctions unless something new
happens,”  Paul Gamble , the head of research at Riyadh-based
Jadwa Investment Co., said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“ Saudi Arabia  has kept its production pretty high to cover for
Iran, so there’s plenty of oil in the market.”  OPEC Meeting  A reduction in Iranian exports may become the biggest
supply disruption from a member of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries since an armed rebellion all but halted
pumping in  Libya  last year, according to the IEA. A strike by
oil workers in  Norway  also curbed flows from North Sea fields.  Iran called on OPEC to hold an emergency meeting to address
the group’s production in excess of the targeted 30 million
barrels a day, Mehr news agency reported June 30, citing the
country’s oil minister.  Disregard of the target by some OPEC members “will
negatively impact prices in the international market,” Rostam Qasemi said, according to the state-run agency’s report. “The
organization’s members must respect the production ceiling to
maintain the supply and demand in oil markets,” he said.  The HSBC Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to
48.2 last month from 48.4 in May. The final figure is higher
than the 48.1 flash reading released June 21.  Official figures peg  China ’s PMI at 50.2 in June, down from
50.4 in May, the Beijing-based National Bureau of Statistics and
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing reported yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  