-- Momofuku’s Chef Praises London Dining, Berates Critics
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-07-01T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/momofuku-s-chef-praises-london-dining-berates-critics.html
David Chang  vividly recalls dining in
London when he lived in the city as a student in 1995.  “There was nothing to eat, particularly if you were on a
budget,” said the Korean-American chef, whose influence has
rippled across the world from  New York , where he founded the
Momofuku group of restaurants.  “You could eat a four-quid ($6.28) pizza, and Wagamama had
started -- it was delicious then -- or you could go to an all-
you-can-eat buffet in Chinatown,” Chang said in an interview at
the bar of St John Hotel. “If I’d had more money I could have
gone to Le Gavroche or Marco Pierre White’s restaurant. But if I
had, I’d probably have dropped out of college and gone to work
for Marco, and my life would have been different.”  Chang, 34, was in London to cook at the hotel with his
friend  Fergus Henderson , a favorite of other chefs for his
“nose-to-tail” specialties. Henderson sat beside him for the
interview. Together, the chefs swapped jokes and banter, though
I noticed Chang stuck to  Diet Coke  as it was 11:30 a.m.  (“I need to get used to the drinking culture,” he said.)  “Fergus was the forefather of the gastropubs when he was
at the French House” in Soho, Chang said. “London is renowned
for fine dining and really cheap eating, but there are not so
many places in between, which is what he was doing.  London Chefs  “I’m reluctant to use big words like revolution, but
things are happening now and chefs are trying to express
themselves.”  He spoke admiringly of Henderson’s food, offering a
critique of his venues: St John (“more classic”), St John
Bread & Wine (“more freedom”) and St John Hotel (“just
delicious”).  Would Chang consider opening a restaurant in London,
following his decision to  open in Sydney ?  “If it happens, it happens,” said Chang, whose venues
include Momofuku Ssam, Ko, Noodle and Milk, as well as Ma Peche.
“I’d never say no, but we have our hands full at the moment.
You look at the chefs who have come here, people like  Daniel Boulud , and they have the bandwidth to do it and to meet
expectations.  Fierce Critics  “London is the most vicious city in the world, no doubt
about it,” said Chang, referring to the restaurant critics
following a public falling-out with Jay Rayner after the
Observer’s critic reviewed Ma Peche in March 2011. (Rayner said
 Ma Peche doesn’t serve dessert ; Chang’s response on Twitter was
robust,  according to Eater.Com .)  I spent a day with Chang judging about 30 dishes over four
hours at the  Taste of London  event on June 20 and he engaged
with each chef, enthusing as much about the last dish (Le
Gavroche) as the first (Bocca di Lupo). He was also at ease with
the critics on the panel and the choice was unanimous of Club
Gascon, Spice Market and Cinnamon Soho for top three places.  He’s still unconvinced he’d get a welcome in  London .  “I’d rather open in Paris,” he said, and laughed. “At
least they’d be more sympathetic to what I was trying to do.”  I hope he was joking.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Warwick Thompson on theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 