-- How Wall Street Scams Counties Into Bankruptcy
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-07-01T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/how-wall-street-scams-counties-into-bankruptcy.html
Lord knows we’ve had more than enough
scandals ginned up by Wall Street over the years, and the
message that banking executives proclaim after each is: “Don’t
worry, we’ve learned that lesson, and it will never happen
again.”  Which is how we got to the recent spectacle of  Jamie Dimon ,
the chief executive officer of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , testifying
twice before Congress that although the bank’s chief investment
office was taking huge proprietary risks with some $350 billion
of its depositors' money -- and lost $3 billion (and counting) by
making a bunch of risky bets on an obscure, thinly traded
derivatives contract -- everything is now fine and dandy because
the unjustifiable gambling has been stopped dead in its tracks.  We were, of course, told pretty much the same thing after
the collapse of the junk-bond market in the 1980s, the collapse
of the Internet initial-public-offering market in the 1990s, the
collapse of the telecom debt market in the early 2000s, not to
mention the scandals over IPO spinning and laddering and the
ones involving the trading of favorable corporate research for
investment-banking fees.  We are told repeatedly that when  Wall Street ’s deeply
flawed incentive system leads to one bad outcome after another,
year after year, it will never happen again. Yet it does. And
you can add this vital business to the list: The way state and
local government officials hire Wall Street firms to raise the
billions of dollars their municipalities need to build schools,
hospitals, airports and sewers, and provide other essential
services.  Minor Penalties  For some reason, Wall Street never seems to get the message
that bribing government officials -- and paying each other off -
- to get access to lucrative municipal-bond underwriting
business is illegal. Wall Street has never learned this lesson
because the miniscule price it ends up having to pay for
misbehaving has absolutely no deterrent value whatsoever.  Indeed, what the cartel of the major banks does over and
over again to win underwriting business from local government
officials, and the way the cartel then sorts out among itself
who gets what fees, is a microcosm of a much wider problem of
the increasing power that the Wall Street survivors of the
financial crisis have over the rest of us.  As I described in my book “The Last Tycoons,” about
Lazard Freres & Co., the firm in the early 1990s surprisingly
became a force in the underwriting of bond sales for state and
local governments, even though Lazard was basically a mergers-
and-acquisitions shop. Lazard’s prowess came after it hired two
senior bankers: Mark Ferber and Richard Poirier.  Over time, the how and why of the firm’s success revealed
itself. Poirier seduced state officials where he did business --
 New Jersey ,  Kentucky ,  Louisiana  and  Georgia  -- while Ferber did
the same with government officials in  Massachusetts . Ferber also
took more than $1 million in payoffs from Merrill Lynch in order
that Ferber would recommend Merrill as the underwriter to
Massachusetts state officials. Eventually, Lazard and Merrill
 settled  Securities and Exchange Commission charges against the
firms for $12 million each -- without admitting or denying
responsibility, of course -- and Ferber and Poirier left Lazard.  In August 1996, Ferber was convicted on 58 counts of fraud
and then was sentenced to 33 months in federal prison and fined
$1 million. The nub of the problem, according to the Boston
Globe, was that the arrangement between Lazard and Merrill was
“a symptom of an under-regulated municipal finance industry,
where political connections can often bring more dividends than
the substance of an underwriter’s proposal and where hidden
conflicts often abound.”  Fraud Charges  As for Poirier, he was later convicted on fraud charges in
Fulton County, Georgia, for paying a bribe to an intermediary at
a regional investment bank in exchange for underwriting
business. “This crime involved significant planning from both
defendants,” an appellate court wrote of Poirier’s actions. In
1995, Lazard got out of the municipal-finance business.  So, what lessons did Wall Street learn from Lazard, Ferber
and Poirier about bribery, conspiracy and back-room dealing in
municipal finance? Unsurprisingly, none. In 2009, the Securities
and Exchange Commission  charged  that two bankers at JPMorgan,
 Charles LeCroy  and Douglas MacFaddin, had in 2002 and 2003
privately agreed with “certain” county commissioners in
Jefferson County, Alabama, to pay more than $8.2 million to
“close friends of the commissioners who either owned or worked
at local broker-dealers” that had been hired to advise the
county commissioners on awarding underwriting business.  The purpose of the payments, the SEC alleged, was to make
sure the commissioners hired JPMorgan as the underwriter of
municipal-bond sales and swaps contracts. The SEC caught LeCroy
and MacFaddin on tape saying the payments were “payoffs,”
“giving away free money” and “the price of doing business.”
(Attorneys for LeCroy and MacFaddin disputed the SEC charges,
which they are still fighting.)  The best part, according to a suit filed by the county, was
that JPMorgan even agreed to pay  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  $3
million if it wouldn’t compete for a $1.1 billion interest-rate
swap that JPMorgan entered into with Jefferson County. The
payments were all undisclosed -- the Goldman money, the suit
claimed, was shuffled through a separate derivatives contract
created just to make the payment -- and decreased the proceeds
the county received from the offerings.  To settle the charges with the SEC, JPMorgan neither
admitted nor denied wrongdoing -- of course -- but paid $722
million, including forgiving $647 million in fees that the
county would have had to pay to unwind the swap deals. Last
November, Jefferson County filed for  bankruptcy protection ,
largely a result of the deals JPMorgan Chase put together.  Taking Bribes  But still the lesson has not been learned. Just read the
latest shocking  investigation  by Rolling Stone’s Matt Taibbi,
which recounts a just-concluded case in a Manhattan federal
court, U.S. v. Carollo. In a nutshell, it explains how three
bankers at  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s finance arm,  GE Capital  -- as
well as a bunch of ne’er-do-wells at an intermediary brokerage,
which supposedly vetted potential underwriting firms -- were
doing the exact same things bankers at Lazard, JPMorgan and
Merrill did in years past: paying and taking bribes in exchange
for business “in a breathtakingly broad scheme to skim billions
of dollars from the coffers of cities and small towns across
America,” according to Taibbi.  The details are nauseating -- Taibbi aptly compares the
whole scam to the Mafia. It leads one to believe that Wall
Street big shots are like scorpions, which sting because that’s
what they are on Earth to do, they just can’t help themselves.  “One of the biggest lies in capitalism,” former  New York 
Governor  Eliot Spitzer , who made his name prosecuting Wall
Street misdeeds, told Taibbi, “is that companies like
competition. They don’t. Nobody likes competition.” Spitzer
could have added that this hatred of competition is ever-keener
on Wall Street, which today, with its ranks thinned by the
financial collapse, operates more like a cartel than ever.  The three GE bankers -- Dominick Carollo, Steven Goldberg
and  Peter Grimm  -- were convicted on May 11 of conspiracy to
commit fraud. Will Wall Street finally learn its lesson? It
would certainly help if the federal judge in the case, Harold Baer, throws away the keys to the cells the three men are set to
inhabit.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on ways to  strengthen the
health-care-reform law  and on  Europe’s banking deal ;  Noah
Feldman  on the  constitutional right to lie ;  Albert Hunt  on the
 politics of the health-care ruling ;  Pankaj Mishra  on  redefining
the idea of Europe ; Robert Boxwell on  Japan ’s  inadequate fight
against insider trading ; Robert Frichtel on rules for  medical
marijuana and driving .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 