-- Peru Consumer Prices Fell Last Month as Economic Growth Slowed
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-07-01T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/peru-consumer-prices-fell-last-month-as-economic-growth-slowed.html
Peruvian  consumer prices  fell for the
first time in five months in June after food and fuel costs
declined amid slowing economic growth.  Prices slid 0.04 percent in the month and gained 4 percent
from the year earlier, the national statistics agency said in an
e-mailed statement. The median estimate of 11 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was for prices to gain 0.1 percent in
June.  The central bank has held its  benchmark lending rate  at
4.25 percent for 13 months on expectations annual inflation will
return to its target range of 1 percent to 3 percent amid slower
global growth. The government last week added $750 million to a
stimulus plan designed to bolster employment after the economy
expanded at the slowest pace in more than two years in April as
exports dropped 12 percent.  “Inflation should ease to just within the target range
this year because globally the situation is going to be
complicated,” Augusto Saldarriaga, the head of analysis at
Banco Internacional del  Peru , said by phone from  Lima . “The
government’s measures to boost investment may spur growth and
stir some inflationary pressure.”  Food and drink prices dropped 0.3 percent in June, while
gasoline declined 0.7 percent, the agency said.  Gas stations cut fuel prices by as much as 7 percent on
June 28 after crude oil dropped below $80 a barrel for the first
time since October, which will be reflected in July inflation
data.  The government’s consumer-price index is based on a survey
by the statistics agency of businesses in the Lima Metropolitan
area. Food and drink products constitute 38 percent of the
index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 