-- Rhoen Klinikum May Decline After Fresenius Offer Fails
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-07-02T10:09:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/rhoen-klinikum-may-decline-after-fresenius-offer-fails.html
Rhoen Klinikum AG (RHK)  slumped in
Frankfurt trading after Fresenius SE failed in its 3.1 billion
euro ($3.9 billion) bid to buy the hospital operator, foiled by
rival Asklepios Kliniken GmbH.  Asklepios took a 5 percent stake in Rhoen Klinikum,
triggering trading on June 27 that interfered with acceptance
and settlement of the offer, Fresenius said in a statement June
29 after the market closed. About 84 percent of Rhoen
Klinikum shares were tendered, and the 22.50 euro a share offer
was contingent on winning at least 90 percent of the stock,  Bad
Homburg , Germany-based Fresenius said.  Merger-arbitrage funds, which speculate on whether
announced deals will be concluded, will sell their shares now
that the offer has failed, Martin Brunninger, an analyst at
Nomura International Plc in  London , wrote in a report to clients
today. Meanwhile, negotiations will probably start between
Asklepios, Rhoen and Fresenius, Brunninger said by phone.  “Asklepios will use this to force a deal out of
Fresenius,” Brunninger said, saying the smaller company might
try to acquire some individual hospitals or protect its regional
businesses. Asklepios could also make its own bid for Rhoen or
in partnership with private equity, Brunninger said.  Rhoen Klinikum fell 11 percent to 16.80 euros at 12:06 p.m.
after previously declining to a two-month low of 15.92 euros.
The stock traded at an  average price  of 14.49 euros in the three
months before Fresenius announced the offer.  Hospital Struggle  Combining Fresenius’s Helios hospital unit with Rhoen
Klinikum would have cemented Helios’s position atop the German
market, leaving Asklepios as the second-biggest operator.
Asklepios announced it had a 5 percent stake on June 27, the
last day of Fresenius’s offer.  Fresenius fell 0.8 percent to 81.13 euros.  “We remain convinced of the merits of combining Rhoen
Klinikum with Helios, and will assess our options in the coming
days,” Fresenius Chief Executive Officer Ulf Mark Schneider
said in a statement.  The acceptance rate shows that shareholders supported the
deal, Fresenius spokesman Matthias Link said today. The company
wants a “speedy” resolution, Link said, declining to comment
on whether Fresenius and Asklepios had begun talks.  Asklepios wanted to leave its options open, spokesman Rudi
Schmidt said on June 27. He declined to comment in more detail
today. The Koenigstein, Germany-based company’s only shareholder
is its founder, Bernard Broermann.  Possible Scenarios  Fresenius may come back with a new offer after negotiating
with Asklepios, Nomura’s Brunninger said. The deal would be more
expensive after satisfying Asklepios’s conditions, he wrote.
Asklepios also could begin its own takeover effort, he wrote in
a report May 8, possibly at a lower price than Fresenius’s bid.
He has a buy recommendation on Rhoen Klinikum’s shares.  Fresenius and Asklepios could both keep a stake in Rhoen
Klinikum and “block any strategic initiative” the company
might seek to undertake on its own, Volker Braun, a Frankfurt-
based analyst for Commerzbank AG, wrote in a note to clients.
Braun lowered his recommendation on Rhoen Klinikum’s shares to
reduce from hold.  Rhoen Klinikum’s management said they were disappointed
that Fresenius’s effort failed.  ‘Missed’ Opportunity  “A great opportunity to jointly shape the health-services
market in  Germany  has been missed in the first instance,” Rhoen
Klinikum Chairman Eugen Muench said in a statement. “The merger
would have opened up new opportunities to all involved.”  Rhoen Klinikum had expenses for consultants tied to the
takeover offer, and the bid also “temporarily led to insecurity
among our patients, our workforce and our business associates at
certain locations of the company,” Rhoen said in the statement.
Details on the financial impact should be available when it
publishes half-year earnings, the company said.  Today’s trading may cap a rollercoaster few days for Rhoen
Klinikum investors. The stock plunged the most on record, 12
percent, on June 27, the day Asklepios disclosed its stake, and
lost another 5.7 percent on June 28. Rhoen Klinikum rebounded
along with global markets on June 29, rising 8.1 percent.  Targeted Acquisitions  Fresenius raised 1 billion euros through a share sale to
help finance the deal. The company’s ratio of net debt to
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
is now expected to be at the lower end of Fresenius’s target
range of 2.5 to 3.0, the company said June 29.  Fresenius said it will use the additional money to
complement growth with targeted acquisitions.  “The question is what they will do with the cash,” said
Birgit Kulhoff, a Zurich-based  fund manager  at Rahn & Bodmer
Co., before the result was announced. Kulhoff said Fresenius
might add to its Kabi infusion-therapy business, a faster-
growing area of the company than its hospitals division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  