-- South Korea Exports Expand as Weak Won Offsets Europe Crisis
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-07-01T03:14:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/south-korea-s-exports-expand-as-weak-won-offsets-europe-crisis.html
South  Korea ’s exports rose in June,
snapping three months of declines, after a weaker won fueled
overseas sales even as  China ’s growth slowed and  Europe ’s debt
crisis deepened.  Overseas  shipments  rose 1.3 percent from a year earlier,
the Ministry of  Knowledge Economy  said in a statement today,
after a revised 0.6 percent decline in May. The median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey of 16 economists was for a 0.5
percent gain.  South Korea  announced 8.5 trillion won ($7.4 billion) of
economic support measures on June 28 and cut its growth outlook,
citing Europe’s “long-term threat” to the nation’s expansion.
The  Bank of Korea  kept borrowing costs unchanged for a 12th
month in June and the ministry today cut its estimate for export
growth this year.  “South Korean exporters are coping with the European
crisis with a weaker currency and by diversifying their products
and markets,” Kong Dong Rak, a fixed-income analyst at Taurus
Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul, said before the release.  The won has fallen about 6 percent over the past 12 months.
It strengthened 0.8 percent to a seven week high of 1,145.40 per
dollar on June 29, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as
European leaders made progress in aiding the region’s indebted
countries. The Kospi stock index rose 1.9 percent.  Imports Decline  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s largest handset maker,
said on June 25 that the Galaxy S III will help mobile earnings
surpass the first-quarter record, after users responded more
positively to the latest smartphone model. The company’s mobile
unit posted a record first-quarter profit of 4.3 trillion won.  South Korea’s imports fell 5.4 percent in June from a year
earlier and the  trade surplus  for the month was $4.96 billion,
today’s data show.  The ministry also cut its estimate for export growth this
year to 3.5 percent from a January projection of 6.7 percent,
citing a slowdown in major economies. It now expects the value
of overseas shipments this year to reach $574.5 billion from a
previous estimate of $595 billion.  Imports may increase 5 percent to $551 billion this year,
down from a previous forecast for an 8.7 percent gain to $570
billion, the ministry said.  Estimates Cut  South Korea’s economy expanded at the fastest pace in a
year during the first quarter, boosted by  government spending 
and investments by semiconductor chipmakers. Still, the
government on June 28 cut its forecast for this year’s growth to
3.3 percent from 3.7 percent projected in December.  Shipments to the European Union fell 22.7 percent from a
year earlier in the first 20 days of June, according to today’s
report. Exports to China, the biggest buyer of South Korean
goods, were little changed from a year ago while exports to
members of the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations , or ASEAN,
rose 13.9 percent.  Sales to the U.S. and Japan dropped 3.5 percent and 3.6
percent, respectively. Data for exports to individual countries
are only available for the first 20 days of the month.  Overseas shipments of semiconductors rose 3.1 percent last
month while car sales gained 1.5 percent, the ministry said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  