-- Spain Overestimating Bank Profit Risks Seeking Too Little
-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 2012-07-02T10:15:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/spain-overestimating-bank-profit-risks-seeking-too-little.html
Spain , which for years underestimated
losses at its banks, is poised to overestimate how much they can
earn in an economy mired in recession.  One of two outside advisers hired by the Spanish government
to conduct stress tests on the nation’s lenders estimated that
losses could reach  274 billion euros  ($347 billion) in the next
three years. The adviser, management-consulting firm Oliver
Wyman, predicted banks could earn 23 billion euros a year before
loss provisions, about what they made in 2011, even if the
economy contracted by 6.5 percent under an adverse scenario.  While Spain’s two largest lenders,  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , earn most of their income
outside the country, smaller banks depend on domestic business.
Most are paying higher rates for deposits than they earn on
mortgages. Their most profitable trade -- borrowing at 1 percent
from the  European Central Bank  and lending to the Spanish
government at 6 percent -- risks bankrupting the country.  “As the economy keeps going south, the second-tier banks
can’t generate earnings and their losses will rise more,” said
 Alberto Gallo , head of European macro credit research at Royal
Bank of  Scotland  Group Plc in  London . “There’s no end to
plugging banks’ losses. The banks will eventually provide the
straw that breaks the camel’s back.”  EU Bailout  Overestimating earnings could lead Spain to ask for too
little financial assistance from the European Union to
recapitalize its ailing banks. That increases the risk that the
bailout will fail to restore market confidence in the nation’s
banking system and provide only a short respite, as did four
previous attempts since 2010.  The EU has agreed to provide as much as 100 billion euros
to help Spain fix its banks. At a meeting in Brussels last week,
euro-area leaders paved the way for  Europe ’s bailout fund to
inject funds directly into lenders once they establish a single
banking supervisor. Proposals for a unified supervision
framework will be considered by the end of the year, the leaders
said. The politicians also decided that the financial assistance
Spain gets won’t subordinate existing bondholders.  The yield for Spain’s  10-year benchmark bond  has declined
0.66 percentage point to 6.24 percent in the two days since the
announcement. While the decision on the seniority of rescue
funds helps ease investor concerns, Spain will need to borrow
from the EU to recapitalize its banks until a direct-lending
mechanism is in place, adding to its debt burden, said RBS’s
Gallo.  “This gives them a reprieve of several weeks perhaps, but
they still have to move swiftly to fix the banks bleeding with
losses,” Gallo said. “Spain can’t wait for a year for the new
bank mechanism to be set up.”  Bank Profits  The studies by  Oliver Wyman  and Munich-based Roland Berger
Strategy Consultants GmbH, which found the capital needs to be
between  26 billion euros  and 62 billion euros, will play a
significant role in determining how much aid Spain will request.
The exact figure will be decided after a more detailed bank-by-
bank examination by the two firms is completed in September.  The report by New York-based Oliver Wyman concluded that
most of the potential bank losses could be weathered by profits,
provisions and existing capital buffers. The Roland Berger
analysis reached a similar conclusion, though it didn’t provide
a breakdown of how much would be met by earnings.  Oliver Wyman said it expects more profit under its adverse
scenario than its base case, in which  gross domestic product 
falls by 1.7 percent between now and the end of 2014. The firm
didn’t explain the logic behind improved earnings in a weaker
economy. Oliver Wyman doesn’t comment on client work, spokesman
Chris Schmidt said.  Second Recession  The Spanish economy, which contracted for six quarters
beginning in 2008, entered a second recession in the first
quarter of 2012 after growing less than 1 percent last year. The
deterioration probably intensified in the second quarter, the
Bank of Spain said last week. The  International Monetary Fund 
and the EU expect the economy to shrink 1.8 percent in 2012.
Unemployment has reached 24 percent, the highest in the EU.  Bankia (BKIA)  group, Spain’s third-largest bank by assets, asked
for a 19 billion-euro bailout in May. Newly appointed Chairman
Jose Ignacio Goirigolzarri decided to make provisions for
residential mortgages and loans to companies outside the real
estate industry in addition to what the government required for
loans to developers and construction firms.  Capital Needed  Bankia, formed from the merger of seven regional firms,
accounts for almost one-tenth of all bank lending in Spain.
Extrapolating its request to the rest of the system means
lenders would need to raise about 210 billion euros of capital.
Taking Santander and BBVA out of the equation would reduce the
figure to 168 billion euros.  That’s in line with the 160 billion-euro Royal Bank of
Canada estimate for what Spain needs. The RBC calculation takes
into account the Bankia example as well as what Ireland did with
its failed banks in 2010, forcing steeper writedowns and funding
a bad bank to take some soured loans off their books.  “Even though every bank and every country is different,
Bankia’s guidance and the Irish situation show that the EU
bailout figure being discussed may not be enough,” said Patrick Lee, a London-based analyst covering Spanish banks for RBC.  Royal Bank of Scotland’s Gallo sees a capital need of 134
billion euros, with a worst case scenario of 180 billion euros.
Others say a 100 billion-euro EU bailout is sufficient. Jonathan Glionna, an analyst at Barclays Plc, estimates the capital need
at 80 billion euros. Under an “unlikely but plausible stress
case,” that figure could rise to 116 billion euros, Glionna
wrote in a June 13 report. The IMF said on June 8 the shortfall
was 37 billion euros.  Underestimating Losses  Some Spanish bankers and government officials have warned
against using Bankia as a benchmark. Economy Minister Luis de Guindos told parliament on May 23 that Bankia is a “specific
case” without any implications for the rest of the industry.  Spain resisted acknowledging the extent of losses at its
banks until last month. Regulators focused on getting firms to
increase provisions only on commercial real estate loans,
ignoring residential mortgages and other corporate lending.  Spanish government officials and bank executives downplayed
potential losses on home loans by pointing to the difference
between U.S. and  Spanish housing markets .  In the U.S., a lender’s only option when a borrower
defaults is to seize the house and settle for whatever it can
get from a sale. The borrower owes nothing more in this system,
known as non-recourse lending. In Spain, a bank can go after
other assets of the borrower, who remains on the hook for the
debt no matter what the price of the house when sold.  Irish Defaults  The same extended liability didn’t stop the Irish from
defaulting on home loans as its economy shrank, incomes fell and
unemployment rose. At the end of 2011, overdue and restructured
home loans in Ireland reached  18 percent . The Irish government
is softening its personal bankruptcy laws to allow homeowners to
restructure mortgages and has pressed banks to do so even before
the new rules take effect. That exacerbated bank losses.  “As the economy suffers more, the Spanish government will
be pushed to copy the Irish and ease the burden on homeowners,”
said Edward Hugh, a Barcelona-based economist. “If the
government doesn’t cut them a deal on their mortgage debt, then
people, especially younger generations, will start leaving Spain
to avoid paying. That will hurt Spain’s economy even more.”  Delinquencies on all loans have been rising and were almost
50 percent higher in April than at the end of 2010, according to
Spain’s central bank. That means less interest income for
lenders as well as more loan losses. Even some loans that are
performing don’t make money for the weakest banks, which pay a
higher  interest rate  for deposits.  Moody’s Downgrades  The delinquency and default trends in mortgages securitized
into bonds point to a tripling of losses for banks on their home
loans, RBS analysts estimated in May.  Oliver Wyman’s 274 billion-euro loss estimate isn’t far off
from the 287 billion euros that RBC’s Lee forecasts. Using the
loss ratios of the 2010 Irish  stress test  on Spanish banks would
increase the amount to 325 billion euros. The Centre for
European Policy Studies, a Brussels-based research group,
estimates even higher losses: 380 billion euros.  Last week Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Spanish
banks’  credit ratings  for the second time in a month, expecting
rising losses and a weakening ability of the government to
support the lenders.  ‘Restore Confidence’  Counting on three years of profits that may or may not
materialize to lower the capital needed by banks undermines the
objective of the exercise, Lee said.  “Investors are demanding upfront mark-to-market writedowns
of the loan portfolios and a front-loaded capital injection to
counter that,” said Lee. “Anything short of that won’t have
the power to restore confidence in Spain’s banks.”  Santander and BBVA accounted for more than half the pre-
provision profit of the Spanish banking system last year, even
though the two lenders held only one-fifth of the domestic
loans. The weakest Spanish banks rely on ECB funding to stay
alive and eke out a profit on lending, said Hans-Joachim Duebel,
a banking and mortgage consultant based in Berlin.  Borrowing from the ECB by Spanish banks almost tripled in
six months to 288 billion euros as of the end of May.  Last year when the banks managed to earn about 20 billion
euros before provisions, the Spanish economy grew 0.7 percent,
its best performance since 2008. About 25 percent of the banks’
total interest income comes from Spanish  government bonds  they
hold, paying an average of 4 percent annually, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Borrowing Costs  As the government is currently paying more than that to
borrow, banks could have higher profits in 2012 -- assuming
Spain can sustain such costly debt, which has reached 6 percent
on  five-year bonds . If borrowing costs come down significantly
on investor optimism that EU leaders are breaking the link
between troubled sovereigns and banks, Spanish lenders will be
deprived of a lucrative source of income.  Most Spanish mortgages are floating-rate loans, charging
1.5 percentage points on top of the euro interbank offered rate,
or Euribor. That would earn the bank about 2.5 percent on a home
loan at current Euribor. Meanwhile some banks pay as much as 4.2
percent for  deposits , according to Spain’s Expansion newspaper.
That means they can only make money when funding with emergency
funds from the ECB. Lending what they take in from deposits
would result in a loss.  “There’s no real profit for most of the system,” Duebel
said in an interview. “Just like German banks that were
bankrupt but resisted acknowledging it after the 2008 crisis,
the new incarnations of Spanish savings banks are using
accounting gimmicks to look profitable so they can delay their
insolvency. Most of them are zombies.”  Five Restructurings  Some smaller banks have improved interest margins and fee
income as they’ve stolen market share from savings banks.  Banco
Popular Espanol SA (POP) , the fifth-biggest lender in Spain, said net
interest income jumped by one-third in the first quarter as fees
rose by almost 10 percent. While borrowing from the ECB helped
replace other funding, that’s not why interest income improved,
the bank said in an April presentation.  Spain has announced four previous restructuring efforts in
the banking system since 2010, each one giving the country a
brief reprieve. Those attempts included merging the savings
banks and injecting capital into some.  The timetable for the current rescue effort requires banks
to submit proposals in mid-October for how they will address the
capital shortfalls determined by the outside advisers following
the next stage of stress tests. The financial institutions will
then have nine months to implement the approved plans.  Delaying Resolution  Delaying the resolution forces more of the losses onto the
public balance sheet, said RBS’s Gallo. Spain should seek to
share the cost with bank bondholders, as Ireland did with owners
of subordinated debt, he said. Spain is discussing such a plan
with the EU.  “The longer they wait in doing this, the fewer bonds are
left in the banks to impose losses on,” Gallo said. “Investors
are taking their money and leaving when bank bonds mature,
leaving the ECB as the creditor.”  Hugh, the Barcelona economist, said Spain should follow
Ireland’s lead and move the most toxic assets to a so-called bad
bank. Ireland forced writedowns of 58 percent on loans to
builders and developers before moving them to the National Asset
Management Agency. Spain might need to require a 70 percent
discount on the same type of assets, especially if it wants
participation by the private sector in the bad bank, Hugh said.  That would mean the cost of the bad bank alone could be
about 100 billion euros, Hugh estimated, an amount equal to what
the EU is proposing to lend Spain. The country would then need
additional funds to reserve for losses on other loans, such as
residential mortgages, Hugh said.  Public Debt  Spain’s  public debt , including that of regional and local
administrations as well as unpaid bills by governments, is
already about 100 percent of GDP, according to RBS. An
additional 100 billion euros for the banks would take the ratio
to 110 percent, close to the 120 percent for Ireland, which has
been shut out of the  bond market  for two years.  Irish government officials said last week’s decision by
euro-area leaders on bank recapitalization would be implemented
retroactively, helping Ireland replace the government debt it
has taken on to rescue its lenders with direct funds from the
EU. Gallo and other analysts questioned that interpretation.  While last week’s summit was a step in the right direction,
there’s still work to be done before anyone can claim the crisis
is over, said Edward Harrison, an analyst at Global Macro
Advisors, an economic consulting firm in  New York .  “One big problem is the lack of firepower the rescue funds
have,” Harrison said. “They’re clearly not big enough to deal
with either Italy or Spain, which are the third- and fourth-
largest economies in Europe. And there’s still the danger of
some countries not ratifying the rescue funds or some decisions
reached in the summit. A lot still needs to be fleshed out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yalman Onaran in New York at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  