-- Spain’s Guindos Urges Swift Adoption of EU Summit Decisions
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-07-01T12:51:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/spain-s-guindos-urges-swift-adoption-of-eu-summit-decisions-1-.html
Spain ’s Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said a swift adoption of decisions to foster a banking,
fiscal and political union made at last week’s European Summit
would help reduce the country’s borrowing costs.  “Decisions were taken that will have a fundamental role in
the short term to lower spreads,” de Guindos said during a
conference in Navacerrada, near Madrid, today. “It is
fundamental that these decisions be concretely implemented in
the next weeks and months to show the fiscal policy is more and
more coordinated and more compatible with the monetary policy.”  Spain’s  10-year borrowing costs  last month surged above 7
percent for the first time since the euro was created after
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government, in power since
December, said the euro area’s fourth-biggest economy needed
European aid to shore up banks burdened by bad loans.  The nation, in the throes of its second recession since
2009, was granted as much as 100 billion euros ($127 billion) of
loans from European rescue funds on June 9 to recapitalize its
banking sector as it works to shrink the third-biggest  budget
deficit  in the euro area.  Benchmark Bond  The yield on Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond fell 61 basis
points on June 29 to 6.33 percent following the summit in
Brussels that started on June 28.  “The decision was taken to progress in a decisive way
regarding the banking union, the fiscal union and the political
union,” de Guindos said.  “Fundamental decision have been taken and will be taken
regarding the centralization of supervision, the possibility of
a European deposits guarantee fund, and of direct capital
injections to banks by European instruments,” he said.  European Union leaders sparked the biggest rally in Spanish
bonds and the euro this year after addressing flaws in bailout
programs, moving toward a banking union, and trying to break a
negative loop between troubled sovereigns and lenders.  The euro’s guardians agreed to drop a requirement that
taxpayers get preferred creditor status on emergency loans to
Spanish banks. Other steps included agreeing to use rescue funds
to stabilize markets in certain conditions.  “The summit was an essential one, and that reinforced the
message that we will all be behind the euro, that it is a
common, irreversible and irrevocable project,” de Guindos said.
The message is this is “a project to which we must all
contribute and show solidarity, as has already occurred in the
past,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  