-- Spain Beats Italy 4-0 to Clinch Third Straight Soccer Trophy
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-07-01T22:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/spain-defeats-italy-4-0-to-become-first-to-retain-european-title.html
Spain beat  Italy  4-0 last night to
become the first nation to retain soccer’s European Championship
title and the only one from the continent to win three straight
major competitions.  David Silva , Jordi Alba, and substitutes  Fernando Torres 
and  Juan Mata  scored at Kiev’s Olympic Stadium for the 2010
world champion, which started its winning treble at Euro 2008.  Italy was forced to play the final 30 minutes a man down
after running out of substitutes when Thiago Motta left injured.
The Azzurri were no match for a Spanish team that recorded the
biggest victory margin in a European Championship or World Cup
final, and Spain captain Iker Casillas was able to hold aloft
the Henri Delaunay Trophy for the second time in his career.  “To win three titles is almost impossible,” said Spain
coach Vicente  del Bosque , who has now won European, world and
Champions League titles. “Congratulations to the players. I
didn’t really want to be the coach who wins but the coach who
educates, I want to keep preparing them for the future.”  Spain also extended its record of not conceding a goal in
knockout matches since a 3-1 defeat to  France  in the last 16 of
the 2006  World Cup . That was also the last time it was
eliminated from a major tournament.  “They really have made history tonight, deservedly so,”
Italy coach Cesare Prandelli said. “They have been playing
tremendous football for years. Once Thiago Motta went off
injured we didn’t have anything left in the tank. When you’re
down to 10 men you can’t carry on, the game’s over”  Keep Possession  For all its dominance of the ball Spain had struggled to
score goals in knockout matches. Only once since a 3-0 victory
over  Russia  at Euro 2008 had Las Rojas scored more than one goal
in major elimination matches. That 2-0 win over France in this
year’s competition was followed by a penalty-shootout victory
over  Portugal  in the semifinal after that match finished 0-0.  Prandelli’s decision to ask his team to press higher
upfield than Spain’s opponents usually do made for an open
contest. Any hope of an Italy comeback was ended when Motta was
stretchered off in the 61st minute.  Spain, led by  Xavi Hernandez  and  Andres Iniesta  in
midfield, showed off how it could maintain possession even with
opponents snapping into tackles and closing down space.  Silva Strikes  The opening goal came following a sweeping move involving
13 passes in the 14th minute. It ended when Iniesta played in
Cesc Fabregas, who swept behind Giorgio Chiellini and crossed
for Silva to head in. Fabregas was chosen ahead of Alvaro
Negredo as Del Bosque named a team without a recognized striker.  Chiellini almost pulled Italy level three minutes later but
was unable to keep his header on target. That was the Juventus
defender’s last contribution before he hobbled off to become the
first Italian casualty of the night.  Italy pressed without creating clear openings, and Spain
continued to carry a greater threat when it countered.  The second goal arrived four minutes before halftime. Xavi
exchanged passes with Alba who surged beyond a clutch of
defenders to collect the ball and slot past  Gianluigi Buffon .  Prandelli replaced  Antonio Cassano  at halftime with Antonio
 Di Natale , who scored Italy’s goal when the teams last met in a
1-1 draw in the group stage. Chances came at both ends. Di
Natale failed to profit from two openings within six minutes of
entering the game. First he headed over and was then unable to
beat Casillas after receiving a pass from Riccardo Montolivo. In
between those efforts Spain also went close.  Torres, Mata Score  Fabregas tricked his way past three players and was only
denied by a last-gasp lunge as the goal loomed. Spain’s appeals
for a handball off Leonardo Bonucci from the corner that
followed were turned down by referee Pedro Proenca.  Italy’s chances effectively ended when Motta, who’d
replaced Montolivo in the 57th minute, left on a stretcher.  The extra space allowed  Spain  to toy with its opponents and
double the scoreline in the final six minutes.  First Xavi won the ball in midfield and immediately
transferred it to Torres who rolled it into the corner of
Buffon’s goal. Then Torres set up Chelsea teammate Mata to net
in the 88th minute.  “We saw right from the start that they looked fresher, we
had spent a lot of energy in the past week,” Prandelli said.
“It was a fantastic tournament for us and I have to
congratulate the lads.”  Spain beat Germany 1-0 at the Euro 2008 final in Vienna,
when Torres got the goal. He’s now the only man to score in two
Euro finals. Alba’s strike was his first for his country.  “It was my first final and we created history, I’m very
happy,” Alba told reporters. “I can’t believe it, it still has
to sink in. I’ve also signed for Barcelona and now I want to
celebrate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at the Olympic Stadium in Kiev via the London
newsroom at   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  