-- UN Plan’s Failure to Force Assad Exit Seen as Russian Win
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-07-02T14:08:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/syria-accord-seen-as-russia-victory-lacks-call-for-assad.html
A United Nations-brokered peace plan
for  Syria  is a victory for  Russia  because it lacks clear wording
excluding Syrian President Bashar al-Assad from taking part in a
transition of power, analysts in London and  Washington  said.  World powers on June 30 backed a plan that doesn’t directly
spell out the fate of Assad, who has been battling rebels for 16
months in a conflict that’s resulted in as many as 17,000
fatalities, according to non-governmental organizations. Nations
including the U.S. and the U.K. watered down a draft by special
envoy  Kofi Annan  after Russia rejected language banning Assad
and members of his inner circle from participating in a
transitional government.  “The latest decision is a compromise by the West and a
victory for Russia,” said Lilit Gevorgyan, a London-based
analyst at IHS Global Insight. “There has not been an explicit
decision to push Assad out, something that Russia was keen on.”  International efforts to mediate a peace deal have faltered
over whether Assad must leave office before a shift in power can
begin. The communique from foreign ministers in Geneva, which
declares a “firm timetable” for actions without any dates or
deadlines, may draw scrutiny over whether the U.S. and allies
 France  and the U.K. yielded too much to get a so-called road map
accepted by Russia and  China .  ‘Should Fail’  Syria’s state-run Baath newspaper said in an editorial
today that the Geneva meeting could not have produced positive
results because it ignored the Syrian government’s efforts to
introduce change.  “Any effort that ignores the facts on the ground and does
not consider that the reform process in Syria has achieved and
is achieving realistic and concrete results on the ground, is an
effort that should fail,” the newspaper said.  The accord drew quick criticism from Syrian opposition
groups yesterday, which vowed not to negotiate with Assad or
members of his government.  “The Syrian people had expected a more serious and
effective effort in dealing with the regime,” the Syrian
National Council, the main Syrian opposition group, said in a
statement. “The Geneva declaration lacks a clear mechanism for
action and a timetable for implementation and leaves the regime
without accountability.”  The Local Coordination Committees, an opposition group,
said in an e-mailed statement that the agreement merely gives
the government more time.  ‘Violence, Massacres’  “This provides yet another opportunity for the regime’s
thugs to play their favorite game in utilizing time to stop the
popular Syrian revolution and extinguish it with violence and
massacres,” the group said.  The Assad government has portrayed the unrest as a
conspiracy and the protesters as “terrorists.” Assad issued
two anti-terrorism laws today.  One calls for a 20-year jail sentence with hard labor and a
fine for anyone who has aided terrorists, with harsher
punishment if the aim of setting up such a group is to change
the government, state-run SANA news agency reported. The law
imposes the death penalty if the actions result in a fatality.  Under the second law, people convicted of terrorism will be
dismissed from government jobs.  Some 250 members of the Syrian opposition began a two-day
meeting in Cairo today under the auspices of the  Arab League  to
discuss a common political vision. Arab states called for a
unified international stand against the violence in Syria and
stressed the need for maintaining the country’s unity.  ‘Blood on Their Hands’  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  told journalists on
June 30 in Geneva that even without explicit wording, “Assad
will still have to go. What we have done here is to strip away
the fiction that he and those with blood on their hands can stay
in power.”  The final version retained “strong language” and was a
“significant step forward,” she told Bloomberg Radio.  “There was every reason to believe that we would never get
the Russians and the Chinese on board,” Clinton said in the
interview in Geneva. During more than six hours of contentious
negotiations, she said she “didn’t know that we were going to
be able to get anything.”  Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said the road map
doesn’t require Assad’s removal and pledged that his government
would press the Syrian leader to comply with the peace plan.  Death Toll  Syrian security forces killed 73 people today, Al Arabiya
television station reported, citing an activist group. Syrian TV
reported that an explosion at an arms depot in Khaldiyyeh in
Homs killed and wounded several “terrorists.”  The accord is “only a half-victory for Russia as the next
step, the hardest step, would be ensuring that the plan works,”
IHS Global’s Gevorgyan said in an e-mailed reply to questions.
“For it to succeed, the unity government would need to include
the moderate forces ready for dialogue.”  Jeff Laurenti, a UN analyst at the Century Foundation in
 New York , called the agreement a “win” in that it takes a step
toward ending the Syria conflict.  Still, it could be seen as a “loss for anyone seeking to
annihilate the other side; for Assad, whose Russian backers have
now formally committed themselves to a successor government
whose leaders must be acceptable to all Syrian sides -- as he
and his brother surely are not -- and for Islamists, ditto,”
Laurenti said in an e-mailed response to questions.  ‘Major Concession’  Before the Geneva meeting, Annan had crafted a proposal
saying a new government “could include members of the present
government and the opposition and other groups, but would
exclude from government those whose continued presence and
participation would undermine the credibility of the transition
and jeopardize stability and reconciliation.”  The modified text suggests “Washington has made a major
concession in that Assad could stay on,” though a clause on
mutual consent means the opposition would have veto power over
who could be in the transitional government,  Andrew Tabler , a
fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, said in
an e-mailed response to questions.  “It’s unclear how Assad could be present and create the
‘neutral environment’ outlined in the agreement,” Tabler said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  