-- U.K. House Prices Stagnate on Subdued Demand, Hometrack Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-07-01T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/u-k-house-prices-stagnate-on-subdued-demand-hometrack-says.html
U.K.  house prices  stopped rising in
June for the first time in four months as economic uncertainty
and a seasonal slowdown curtailed activity in a market that now
faces “downward pressure,” Hometrack Ltd. said.  Prices stayed unchanged from May, the London-based
property-research company said in an e-mailed report today. The
number of new buyer registrations fell 0.5 percent, the first
drop in five months, while the volume of properties being put up
for sale rose 1.5 percent.  The British  property market  is struggling to pick up as
tight lending conditions, high unemployment and falling  consumer
confidence  curb demand. Economists predict  Bank of England 
policy makers will probably increase the size of their so-called
quantitative easing  program  this week as the worsening crisis in
 Europe  impedes the U.K.’s return to growth.  “As we move into the summer months, the traditional
seasonal slowdown will ensure that demand remains subdued,”
 Richard Donnell , director of research at Hometrack, said in the
report. “As a consequence, we expect the balance between supply
and demand to widen, with  house prices  set to come under renewed
downward pressure over the second half of the year.”  On the month, London was the only one out of 10 areas
tracked by Hometrack that showed a price gain in June, with a
0.3 percent increase. From a year earlier, values nationally
fell 0.5 percent.  Britons repaid more mortgage debt than they borrowed in May
for the first time in at least 15 years as consumers sought to
improve their finances, the  British Bankers’ Association  said on
June 27.  Less Pessimism  A separate survey today by Lloyds Bank showed U.K.
companies became less pessimistic about the economic outlook in
June. The index of sentiment rose to minus 12 from minus 21 in
May, the unit of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  said in an e-mailed
statement in London.  The bank questioned 300 companies with sales exceeding 1
million pounds ($1.57 million) between June 6 and June 15.  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee, led by
Governor  Mervyn King , will raise its  target for bond purchases 
by 50 billion pounds to 375 billion pounds on July 5, according
to 30 of 41 economists in a Bloomberg news survey. Eight predict
an increase to 400 billion pounds, and the rest see a smaller
increase or no change.  Forty-nine of 50 economists in a separate Bloomberg survey
see no change next week in the benchmark rate from the record
low of 0.5 percent. One economist, Tom Vosa at National
Australia Bank, forecasts a cut to 0.25 percent.  King said last week that Europe’s debt turmoil has stoked
uncertainty and tightened credit availability, creating
headwinds to Britain’s recovery from recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  