-- U.S. May Face More Pressure to Unblock Myanmar Aid, ADB Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-07-02T09:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/u-s-may-face-more-pressure-to-unblock-myanmar-aid-adb-says.html
The U.S. is likely to face increased
pressure from other donor nations in the coming months to allow
greater assistance to Myanmar, according to Stephen Groff, a
vice president with the  Asian Development Bank .  The Treasury Department remains bound by law to block the
ADB and  World Bank  from providing most aid to Myanmar even after
President  Barack Obama ’s administration  eased sanctions  in May.
While shareholders are comfortable with the current moves to
reengage for now, they may start to lose patience if the U.S.
doesn’t soon change its policies, according to Groff.  “There are other donors and other shareholders of the ADB
and the World Bank that are very keen for these institutions to
move forward,” Groff, one of  five  ADB vice-presidents, said in
a June 30 interview in Bangkok, where he stopped after a four-
day visit to Myanmar. “There will be some point where they are
wanting us to move forward a little bit more aggressively than
we can under the current constraints.”  Myanmar President  Thein Sein ’s 16-month-old government is
seeking help to reconnect with the global economy after about
five decades of military rule left its 64 million people among
 Asia ’s poorest. The ADB and World Bank are in talks with the
government to settle about $900 million in overdue debt, a move
that would bring them closer to resuming lending.  ADB Board  “Were we to put something to the board, the U.S. still
because of the sanctions that are in place would have to vote
against it,” said Groff, who met with Thein Sein and members of
his cabinet during his visit. “There is very little benefit for
all of us to bring something to the board that the U.S. has to
publicly declare they don’t support.”  The ADB’s shareholders consist of 67 countries. The U.S.
and  Japan  hold the most voting power with 12.82 percent each,
followed by  China  at 5.47 percent, according to the bank’s
annual  report . Fourteen countries that are members of the
European Union have a combined voting power of 15.7 percent, the
report said.  ADB assessments of seven Myanmar sectors released yesterday
reveal a range of needs. About a quarter of the population lives
in poverty, agriculture accounts for 70 percent of employment
and about three in four people don’t have access to electricity.
Myanmar has about 18 vehicles for every 1,000 people, compared
with 250 in  Indonesia  and 370 in  Thailand .  Coca-Cola, Caterpillar  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  said last month it would return to Myanmar
for the first time in 60 years once the U.S. government licenses
the investment, while Kevin Thieneman, president of Caterpillar
Asia, will co-lead a U.S. business delegation to the country
next month. The Senate on June 29 confirmed  Derek Mitchell  as
the first U.S. ambassador to Myanmar since 1990, part of moves
to reward the nation’s leaders after opposition leader  Aung San Suu Kyi  won a parliamentary seat in April.  Myanmar may hold a meeting of donor countries in about
three months at which governments can discuss the outstanding
debt, Groff said. Any resolution is likely to be a hybrid of a
 trust fund  to help pay off some of the debt and a bridge loan
that would effectively reschedule payments on the rest, he said.  “The more that we rely on the provision of our own
concessional resources to reschedule that debt, the less is
available in the medium term for investments that are going to
have an impact on poor people in the country,” Groff said.  Unemployment  Thein Sein last month pledged to create jobs and increase
incomes while targeting economic growth of 7.7 percent per year
until 2016, addressing what Suu Kyi has called a “time bomb”
of youth unemployment. Underemployment rose to 37 percent in
2010 from 34 percent in 2005, according the ADB assessment.  Rural areas account for about 85 percent of total poverty,
the ADB said, with the poorest states along the western border
of  Bangladesh . Recent fighting between Rakhine Buddhists and
Muslim Rohingyas in the area has killed about 80 people and
displaced more than 50,000 others, according to the  United
Nations .  Ethnic tensions may potentially “create some problems and
some backsliding,” Groff said. “But again, I was left really
feeling that there was a high level of commitment to the reform
process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  