-- Universal’s ‘Ted’ No. 1 Film With $54.4 Million in Sales
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   K e l l y   B l e s s i n g
-- 2012-07-02T20:19:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/universal-s-ted-no-1-film-with-54-1-million-in-receipts.html
“Ted,” an R-rated comedy featuring
a foul-mouthed teddy bear, unseated Pixar’s “Brave” as the top
film in the U.S. and  Canada  this past weekend with $54.4 million
in sales for  Universal Pictures .  “Magic Mike,” about the world of male strippers, was
second in its debut with $39.1 million in sales for  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s  Warner Bros ., researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  “Ted,” which was made for about $50 million and stars
 Mark Wahlberg , beat out three other new releases including
“Tyler Perry’s Madea’s Witness Protection.” Universal,
controlled by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , stands in third place this year
with $775.6 million in domestic revenue as of June 28, behind
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and  Sony Corp. (6758) , according to Box Office Mojo.  “A film about a cute teddy bear that is not for children
is a risky bet, but they pulled it off as the film definitely
came in above expectations,” said  Paul Sweeney , a media and
entertainment analyst for Bloomberg Industries. “The success of
R-rated films this week shows there is still demand for films
for adults despite the bevy of summer action films and
children’s movies.”  In “Ted,” Wahlberg plays a man whose teddy bear comes to
life as a result of a childhood wish. He must choose whether to
stay with his girlfriend or keep his friendship with the bawdy
teddy bear. Mila Kunis co-stars in the picture, which was
directed by Seth MacFarlane, the creator of the “Family Guy”
television series.  ‘Magic Mike’  Warner Bros.’ male-stripper movie “Magic Mike,” also R
rated, features  Channing Tatum  in the title role. An experienced
stripper, Mike teaches a young performer named “The Kid” how
to party, pick up women and make easy money.  Matthew
McConaughey ,  Alex Pettyfer  and Olivia Munn co-star. The picture
was made for about $7 million, according to Box Office Mojo.  “Brave,” from Disney’s Pixar studio, finished in third
place with $34.1 million, falling 49 percent from last weekend,
when it opened up at No. 1. The film tells the story of the
rebellious princess Merida, who prefers riding horses and
archery to the more sedentary palace duties of a princess. Her
refusal to hew to a traditional role at the royal court leads to
unforeseen consequences that place her family in jeopardy. It
has taken in $131.8 million in two weeks of release.  “Even with ‘Brave’s’ drop this is the kind of movie that
can hang in for some time,” said Sweeney.  Weekend Revenue  Finishing fourth in its opening weekend with $25.4 million
in sales was  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) ’s “Tyler Perry’s
Madea’s Witness Protection,” the latest film about the
fictional Aunt Madea and her family.  In the latest installment, Eugene Levy plays a Wall Street
banker who gets caught up in his company’s mob-backed Ponzi
scheme and relocates to Aunt Madea’s southern home. The PG-13
film features Perry in multiple roles, including Madea, and also
stars Denise Richards.  “Madagascar 3:  Europe ’s Most Wanted,” from  DreamWorks
Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) , fell to fifth place from second, with sales
of $11.8 million. The movie, featuring the voices of  Ben
Stiller ,  Chris Rock  and Jada Pinkett-Smith, follows Alex the
lion and his urbanized animal friends as they leave  Africa  to
return to their home in New York’s Central Park Zoo.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 2.7 percent to
$196.9 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said. Domestic
film sales this year have risen 7.4 percent to $5.43 billion,
with attendance up 9.9 percent.  “It’s continuing to be a decent summer for Hollywood, and
an even better year,” Sweeney said. “It shows that good
product still brings consumers out to the big screen.”  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for June
29 through yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Kelly Blessing in New York at 
 kblessing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  