-- Lusty Nobles, Damon Albarn, Sylvia’s Spurned Poet: London Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-07-01T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/lusty-nobles-damon-albarn-sylvia-s-spurned-poet-london-stage.html
A snappy red convertible crunches to
a halt before a Moorish palace. A fashionable couple emerges
from the car. Servants descend on them. Count and Countess
Almaviva have arrived for some summer fun.  In an amusing new production of Mozart’s “Le nozze di
Figaro” at  Glyndebourne , director  Michael Grandage  reimagines
the opera as a hymn to the type of decadence glamorized in Joan Collins’s soft-core films of the 1970s. Sex on the mind,
marijuana freely available, too much lip gloss, that sort of
thing. It works great.  It looks enticing, too. Designer Christopher Oram creates a
revolving set of tiled and sun-drenched rooms, which recall the
Alhambra Palace in southern  Spain . There are Moorish archways,
decorated grilles on the windows and grand armorial ceilings.
The Countess sports a paisley headscarf and kaftan.  This is the playground in which velvet-clad playboy Count
Almaviva (Audun Iversen) smokes his joints, twirls his
fashionably droopy moustache, and tries to get into the blouse
of his maid Susanna (Lydia Teuscher).  The setting makes sense of the sex-fueled politics of the
piece, and offers us a chance to see a funny and lush-voiced
Cherubino (Isabel Leonard), desperate for some adult action.  Supple Voices  The energetic cast, which also includes Vito Priante as
Figaro and Sally Matthews as the Countess, can all act well and
they have youthfully attractive, supple voices.  Yet there’s not enough sense of the background to the
relationships, of old loves and losses. The comedy lacks an edge
of pain. Perhaps it all will deepen and mature during the run:
The cast is good enough.  Two maturer performers show how it can be done. Andrew
Shore (Bartolo) and Ann Murray (Marcellina) live their roles
down to their fingertips, and make their characters’ improbable
reconciliation convincingly touching.  Robin Ticciati’s fizzy conducting of the period-instrument
Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment adds sparkle.
 Rating: ***1/2.  Damon’s ‘Dee’  Pop star Damon Albarn’s latest stage work “Dr Dee” at
 English National Opera  is a meditation on the life of the 16th-
century English occultist John Dee.  Through a series of masque-like tableaux, we watch Dee
(actor Paul Hilton) progress from a learned boy to a
disillusioned old man.  The emotional temperature is cool. A potentially lively
plot device, in which a fake medium demands access to the bed of
Dee’s wife in return for hermetic secrets, is dispatched
curiously quickly.  Albarn’s short numbers are composed for orchestra in a
patchwork of pastiche Elizabethan styles, folk-pop idioms and
long pedal notes in the manner of  Philip Glass . It falls easily
on the ear without generating much tension. It’s music as
soundtrack, not opera.  Albarn himself, clad in jeans and perched above the action
on a platform, sings a few of the songs in a raspy baritone. He
doesn’t trouble himself about dispensable little things like
consonants, vocal color or proper breathing.  What rescues the piece is Rufus Norris’s visually exuberant
period-costume production, full of witty projections and
spectacle. Books open up into long concertinas which chase Dee
around the stage.  Queen Elizabeth  rises up into the flies. We
watch Dee’s child grow into an adult, courtesy of a clever mix
of live action, silhouette and projection.  The bona fide opera performers Steven Page (evil spymaster
Walsingham) and Anna Dennis (Dee’s daughter) are fine, and
Stephen Higgins holds it together in the pit. Rating: ***.  Rare ‘Zanetto’  Opera Holland Park  has unearthed a gem with Mascagni’s
rarely performed one-act opera “Zanetto” (1896), which tells
the tale of Silvia, a love-weary Renaissance lady (Janice
Watson), and a young poet called Zanetto (Patrica Orr). Silvia
sacrifices her feelings of love to protect Zanetto’s youthful
innocence, and she sends him away.  The piece drips with melody, the heart-on-sleeve orchestral
writing is rich, and the delightfully silly drama unfolds with
concision. Watson and Orr sing with passion, and Manlio Benzi’s
conducting hits just the right tone of emotional expansion.  Director Martin Lloyd-Evans updates the action to the
dressing room of a star actress circa 1900, which makes nonsense
of Zanetto’s supposed innocence. Lloyd-Evans does a better job
with a funny and fast-paced staging of Puccini’s “Gianni
Schicchi,” performed as a double bill, with star bass-baritone
Alan Opie in the title role. Rating: ***.  “Le nozze di Figaro” is in repertoire at Glyndebourne.
Information:  http://www.glyndebourne.com  or +44-1273-813813;
“Dr Dee” is in repertoire at ENO,  http://www.eno.org  or +44-
20-7845-9300; “Zanetto” and “Gianni Schicchi,” supported by
Winton Capital Management Ltd., are in repertoire at Opera
Holland Park,  http://www.operahollandpark.com  or +44-300-999-
1000.  Muse highlights include Richard Vines on dining.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts 
and culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions 
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 