-- Wall Street Quants Owe a Debt to Obscure French Student
-- B y   C o l i n   R e a d
-- 2012-07-01T22:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/wall-street-quants-owe-a-debt-to-obscure-french-student.html
The 21st century began with a major
correction on Wall Street and a long period of volatility in
global financial markets. The VIX, sometimes called the fear
index, soared, and congressional hearings explored why major
investment banks couldn’t better hedge market risk. Traders
sought reprieve, and risk management became elevated from
prudent practice to a tool for financial survival.  Risk is most efficiently managed through the purchase of
options and other derivatives. Many investors know that the
economists Fischer Black and  Myron Scholes  are considered the
pioneers of derivatives pricing through their options-pricing
theory. Their Black-Scholes formula and its variations remain
the primary tools in the optimal pricing and determination of
derivatives hedges.  Most don’t know that options-pricing theory actually began
at the very start the 20th century, in Paris. The innovation, by
an obscure graduate student named  Louis Bachelier , introduced
sophisticated mathematics to finance theory and eventually gave
rise to quantitative analysis. It took us almost 70 years to
appreciate Bachelier’s contribution -- but he should go down as
the father of modern finance.  In his early 20s, following a stint in the French army,
Bachelier found himself working at the Paris Stock Exchange.
There he tried to understand how options on French government
perpetual bonds, or rentes, could be priced.  Brilliant Idea  He enrolled at the  Sorbonne  to study mathematical physics
under one of  France ’s top mathematicians, Henri Poincare. His
supervisor was a bit perplexed when Bachelier chose to study
French bond options for his doctoral thesis, but soon agreed
that his idea was brilliant.  In just a few pages, Bachelier demonstrated that the
volatility of the price of an underlying security affects both
the put and call price of its option. He began by postulating
that the price of perpetual bonds followed what we now call a
“random walk.” He then showed that the range of plausible
prices of such an option diffuses, or spreads out, as the time
to settlement increases, just as smoke might disperse from a
chimney in a manner proportional to distance. By then, the
mathematics of such “diffusion processes” were well
understood, but they were about to be applied in most novel
ways.  Bachelier had hit upon two of the most important concepts
of modern finance -- the random walk of securities prices and
the pricing of market volatility over time. Five years later in
1905,  Albert Einstein  used the same diffusion equation to show
that the random walk of small particles colliding with even
smaller particles helps explain the atomic structure. Einstein
was almost universally credited with a mathematical methodology
that Bachelier had developed in his thesis and applied to
derivatives markets.  Bachelier’s subsequent academic career was disjointed and
prone to drama. It would take 60 years for the profession to
begin to appreciate his work.  But by the early 1960s, there was a general agreement in
the literature that the logarithm of securities prices should
follow a random walk. Theorists were also postulating that the
risk-adjusted return from the options on such securities should
be consistent with the return found elsewhere in the market.
By 1964, the financial theorist and economist  Paul Samuelson  had
stumbled upon Bachelier’s yet-unknown version of the random walk
in his own research on a pricing formula for warrants, a close
sibling of options that are issued not by market participants
but by a company.  Discovering Bachelier  In doing so, he also discovered Bachelier’s thesis, and had
it translated from French into English. With Bachelier’s
insights into the random walk, Samuelson had almost assembled
the entire options-pricing picture before leaving the work to
his graduate assistant,  Robert Merton , to complete.  Meanwhile, Black and Scholes were working on their own
theory of options pricing, also in ignorance of Bachelier,
Samuelson and Merton. They, too, managed to reinvent Bachelier’s
options-pricing formula in a way that was elegant and easily
applied, and based on a random walk not of a securities price
but of its logarithm instead, a subtlety that Bachelier had
missed seven decades earlier. They also incorporated the latest
insights on efficient markets to complete the model in a way
that Bachelier and Samuelson missed.  Black and Scholes published their results in the early
1970s, just as the Chicago Board of Trade spawned the Chicago
Board of Options Exchange. For the first time, there was
simultaneously a new market tool -- broadly traded options --and
a new equation to price it. Black and Scholes were immortalized.
Following Black’s death, Scholes and Merton went on to win the
Nobel Prize for their work.  Now, the Black-Scholes equation, which was almost identical
to the formula that Bachelier developed decades earlier, is
programmed into most financial calculators, and is used to
measure implied market risk from the pricing of the  VIX. (VIX)  It
could be called the “fear formula.” Sophisticated fund
managers use it to ensure the options they use to hedge risk are
properly priced.  With greater volatility in markets comes an increased
probability that an option will exceed upside and downside
strike prices, and hence there is a greater chance that an
option will be exercised. In turn, the price of options reflect
the probability of being exercised, converting a measure of
volatility to a price. Alternately, the observed price of an
option in relationship to its exercise price gives traders an
implicit measure of the market’s anticipation of risk. If future
risk can’t be observed directly, the VIX index can measure how
market participants assess risk in their pricing of the VIX.
Greater volatility begets greater premiums, as Bachelier first
observed in the day-to-day trading of rentes on the Paris Stock
Exchange.  Even with these sophisticated models at hand, we still are
faced with the reality that even the best formulas to
incorporate past and present conditions can’t predict the
future. Our new cadre of quants on  Wall Street  can’t divine the
future from the past, no matter how sophisticated their models
may be.  We may be a little further along now than Bachelier was in
1900, but the pricing of risk in periods of major market
upheaval remains as much an art as a science.  (Colin Read is the chairman of the department of finance
and economics at the  State University of New York , Plattsburgh.
He has published a dozen books on finance theory. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns online.  To contact the writer of this post:
Colin Read at  readcl@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  