-- Wimbledon Is in Full Swing at Night as Players Go the Distance
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-07-01T23:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/wimbledon-is-in-full-swing-at-night-as-players-go-the-distance.html
For the fourth day in a row, the
lights were on late at night at Wimbledon.  A service winner by  Andy Murray  at 11:02 p.m. two days ago
ended his third-round match two minutes beyond a curfew
negotiated between the events’ organizers and the local council
to keep disturbance at a minimum for nearby residents during the
annual two-week Grand Slam tennis tournament.  As Murray spoke to reporters after his 7-5, 3-6, 7-5, 6-1
win against  Marcos Baghdatis  of Cyprus in the latest finish in
Wimbledon history, thousands of tennis fans walked the dark and
empty streets outside the All England Club for an unprecedented
fourth consecutive night, looking for a taxi or bus to get home.  “With the roof there’s always going to be some difficult
situations for the tournament director or the referee,” said
Murray, who had rushed through the fourth set in 28 minutes to
get the match finished on time.  Closing the retractable roof over Centre Court, which has
been in use since 2009 after years of rain delays, added 34
minutes to the match. Following yesterday’s rest day, Murray and
Baghdatis would have finished today had they gone longer, which
may have meant the winner playing three straight days while
other participants rested.  Two days ago on Court 2, Murray’s next opponent, Croatia’s
 Marin Cilic , beat  Sam Querrey  of the U.S. 17-15 in the final set
after 5 hours, 31 minutes. That’s the second-longest match at
Wimbledon, after  John Isner  of the U.S. beat  France ’s Nicolas Mahut in 11 hours, 5 minutes two years ago in the longest match
ever played.  Late Finishes  On Friday, six-time champion  Roger Federer  came back from
two sets down against France’s Julien Benneteau to finish at
9:18 p.m. local time under the roof, which had been closed all
day in anticipation of rain. The evening before, two-time
champion  Rafael Nadal  of Spain was knocked out by 100th-ranked
Lukas Rosol of the  Czech Republic  in a five-set match that
started in daylight and finished under the roof at 10:04 p.m.
Defending men’s champion Novak Djokovic finished at 9:52 p.m. on
Wednesday against  Ryan Harrison  of the U.S. after a rainy day.  The weather isn’t the only reason for the late finishes.  Players including women’s top seed  Maria Sharapova  and
four-time champion  Serena Williams  have said Wimbledon’s grass
courts have become slower over the years.  “I look back to when I won here in 2004, the speed of this
court was quite different,” Sharapova told reporters at the end
of last week. “It was much faster than it is now. Look back
five years before that and it was like another story.”  Fourth Round  There have been 26 five-set matches in the men’s singles
draw at Wimbledon this year after the first three rounds,
compared to 17 during the entire tournament last year. The
overall average in the 10 years until 2011 was 23.5.  “I feel the balls don’t bounce as high,” Williams told
reporters after beating China’s Zheng Jie in three sets on
Centre Court two days ago.  All men’s and women’s fourth-round matches are scheduled
today, as third-seeded Federer of  Switzerland  takes on Belgium’s
Xavier Malisse and Djokovic faces fellow Serbian  Viktor Troicki .
Defending women’s champion Petra Kvitova of the Czech Republic
plays Francesca Schiavone of  Italy , while Sharapova of  Russia 
meets Germany’s Sabine Lisicki. Williams of the U.S. plays
Yaroslava Shvedova of Kazakhstan.  Eddie Seaward, head groundsman at Wimbledon, said a change
in the grasses used had resulted in a more consistent bounce
throughout the two-week tournament.  ‘Harder Bounce’  “The one thing that we’ve done is that we’ve firmed the
courts up more,” Seaward, who has worked at the All England
Club for 23 years and will retire after the London Olympics,
said in an interview. “They’re harder now. They’re as hard on
day one as they were on day 13 when I first came here. So they
are harder, and that gives us a harder bounce.”  Matches are going longer at the other majors too.  At the Australian Open, which is played on high-bouncing
hard courts, Djokovic beat Nadal in 5 hours, 53 minutes, the
longest Grand Slam final in history. Two days before, Djokovic
needed 4 hours, 50 minutes in his semifinal against Murray.  Last month’s  French Open , which is played on red clay, had
27 five-set matches in the men’s singles draw, compared to 16
the year before.  In an interview at  Roland Garros , French Open tournament
director Gilbert Ysern said the men’s matches in the first three
rounds had taken half an hour longer on average compared to the
year before.  Although Ysern said the tournament had switched to softer
tennis balls after players complained they were too hard, he
didn’t want to use that as an explanation.  “Maybe the overall level is moving up,” Ysern said.  Williams, a 13-time major singles champion who was beaten
in the first round of Roland Garros by then 111th-ranked
Virginie Razzano of France, agreed that player depth may also be
contributing to longer matches.  “Everyone is playing everyone tough nowadays,” she said
after beating Zheng. “You can’t underestimate anyone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London newsroom
at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  