-- Dollar Gains as U.S. Factory Gauge Drops; Real Climbs
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-07-02T21:24:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/yen-dollar-stay-lower-on-prospects-asian-stocks-to-gain.html
The dollar rose against the euro,
reversing its biggest loss in eight months, as a gauge of U.S.
manufacturing unexpectedly fell, fueling bets economic growth
may be faltering and stoking investor demand for safety.  The euro dropped against the yen as unemployment in the 17
nations sharing the European currency reached a record. The yen
rose versus all of its major peers except  Brazil ’s real as the
 Institute for Supply Management ’s U.S. factory index contracted
for the first time in almost three years. The real climbed
against the yen and dollar after the nation’s central bank
backed it with currency swap auctions last week.  “The ISM report was substantially worse than anybody would
have expected,” Alessio De Longis, a  money manager  at
OppenheimerFunds Inc. in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. “We were ready for a negative surprise, just to a
smaller magnitude. The world economy is in a recession at the
moment, at least from a manufacturing-expectation standpoint.”  The dollar appreciated 0.7 percent to $1.2576 per euro at 5
p.m. New York time after dropping 1.8 percent June 29, the most
since Oct. 27. The shared currency fell 1 percent to 100.03 yen
after rising 2.2 percent on June 29, the steepest advance on a
closing basis since March 2011. The Japanese currency advanced
0.4 percent to 79.51 to the dollar.  The euro slid against the greenback and the yen as the
jobless rate in the currency bloc rose to 11.1 percent in May
from 11 percent in April, the European Union’s statistics office
in Luxembourg said today. It was the highest since the data
series started in 1995. The  European Central Bank  will probably
cut  interest rates  on July 5, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  ECB Pressured  “The data backdrop in  Europe  remains relatively
challenging,”  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in  London , said in a
telephone interview. “The unemployment number puts some
pressure on the ECB and their response in terms of monetary-
policy easing.”  The dollar gained versus 10 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg after the ISM’s U.S. factory
 index  fell to 49.7 in June, the lowest since July 2009, from
53.5 in May. Figures less than 50 signal contraction. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called for a decline to 52.  Brazil’s real advanced to a level stronger than 2 per
dollar for the first time in more than a month, appreciating 1.2
percent to 1.9854.  Shielding Real  The nation’s central bank sold 180,000 swap contracts worth
a total $8.98 billion in auctions June 27, 28 and 29 to shield
the real from European sovereign-debt turmoil. The swaps were a
reversal of the bank’s dollar purchases, which increased to $7.2
billion in April, the most in 13 months, to support Brazilian
exporters.  Mexico ’s currency touched the strongest level against the
greenback since May 8, 13.2505 pesos, as Enrique Pena Nieto, a
member of the  Institutional Revolutionary Party , claimed victory
in the nation’s election on a pledge to boost economic growth
and private investment. The party ruled the nation for more than
70 years until 2000.  The peso briefly erased gains after the ISM said
manufacturing contracted in the U.S., Mexico’s biggest trade
partner. It traded later at 13.3386, up 0.2 percent.  South Africa’s rand erased gains after the factory gauge
damped demand for riskier assets. The currency traded little
changed at 8.1570 per dollar after touching 8.1082, its
strongest level since May 14.  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  increased 0.3 percent to 81.89.
Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses the gauge to track the
greenback against the currencies of six U.S. trading partners.  Euro Crisis  The euro jumped at the end of last week after leaders in
the currency bloc dropped the requirement that governments get
preferred creditor status on crisis loans to  Spain ’s banks.
Lenders can also be recapitalized directly with European bailout
funds rather than being channeled through governments, European
Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said June 29 after a summit.
The decisions eased concern Europe’s debt crisis is worsening.  The ECB will lower its main refinancing rate to 0.75
percent at its meeting this week, according to economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  Investors “have to rely on the European Central Bank to
produce magic from nowhere,” Kit Juckes, head of currency
research at Societe Generale SA in London, said on Bloomberg
Television’s “Lunch Money” with Sara Eisen and  Adam Johnson .
“We’ll get another rate cut on Thursday. The greatest thing
they can do for growth right now is get interest rates down.”  Moving Average  The shared currency may weaken almost 6 percent to a two-
year low against the dollar if it fails to trade back above its
June 18 high of $1.2748 or the 55-day moving average at $1.2766,
according to  Michael Hewson , a London-based markets analyst at
CMC Markets Plc.  The euro fell 2.8 percent over the past three months in the
biggest loss among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen was the best
performer, with a 7.6 percent gain, while the greenback
appreciated 2.9 percent.  The shared currency’s risk-adjusted loss of 0.33 percent
against the dollar this year was the third-biggest out of the 16
major currencies, the Bloomberg Riskless Ranking showed. The
euro was last on a straight-return basis with a loss of 3
percent.  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  Japan Manufacturers  Japan ’s largest manufacturers expect the yen to trade at an
average of 78.93 per dollar in the second half of this fiscal
year, the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s quarterly  Tankan report  showed today.
They forecast 78.24 in a March survey.  Manufacturer sentiment rose to minus 1 in June from
negative 4 in March, according to the report. The BOJ is
scheduled to start a two-day policy meeting July 11.  The Australian dollar touched an almost two-month high amid
speculation the central bank will leave interest rates on hold
tomorrow. The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  will keep its cash-rate
target at 3.5 percent at tomorrow’s policy meeting, according to
all 28 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The Aussie reached $1.0278, the strongest since May 4,
before trading at $1.0249, up 0.1 percent.  New Zealand’s dollar gained 0.3 percent to 80.37 U.S. cents
after climbing as much as 2 percent on June 29. It touched 80.51
cents earlier today, the highest level since May 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  