-- Lynas CEO Finds Social Media Hobbles Rare-Earths Plans
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-07-02T08:49:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-01/lynas-ceo-finds-social-media-hobbles-rare-earths-plans.html
(Corrects to change ‘Save’ to ‘Stop’ in 12th paragraph.)  Lynas Corp. (LYC)  Chief Executive Officer
Nicholas Curtis said he underestimated the power of Facebook and
Twitter when his mining company decided to build the world’s
biggest rare-earths plant in Malaysia.  Lynas is now counting the cost as thousands of tons of
unprocessed raw materials pile up at its Mount Weld mine in
 Western Australia  while it waits for a promised refining permit.
Local residents, worried about possible contamination from the
Pahang plant, have used new media to rally local and foreign
opposition to the facility.  In hindsight, “I’d have dealt with the emerging community
debate by the social media a little bit more intensely, a little
bit earlier,” Curtis said in a phone interview from Sydney on
June 29. “We probably didn’t recognize the power of the social
media to create an issue.”  There are more than  12 million Facebook users  in  Malaysia ,
according to Facebook Inc., highlighting the importance of
social media engagement in  Southeast Asia ’s third-largest
economy. Lynas, which was partly lured to Malaysia by 12 years
of tax-free status, doesn’t have any other means to refine until
the plant opens, nor a backup plan to process its raw materials
elsewhere, Curtis said. Lynas has lost half its value in the
past year in Sydney trading.  The hold-up has repercussions for clients that planned to
use its rare earths in hybrid  car batteries  and advanced magnate
technology, he said. Some prospective customers have reversed
plans to open factories near the Malaysian plant, instead
opening factories in  China , which currently supplies 90 percent
of the world’s rare earths, Curtis said. He declined to name
companies for confidentiality reasons.  ‘Money and Anxiety’  “These delays are costing us a significant amount of money
and anxiety with our customer base,” said Curtis, declining to
provide client names. “They are monitoring very carefully.”  Rare earth minerals, 17 chemically similar elements, are
used in  Apple Inc.’s (AAPL)  iPod music players, in addition to flat-
screen televisions, magnets and hybrid cars. The materials are
also used to make goods such as  Boeing Co. (BA)  helicopter blades,
 Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  mobile phones and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  wind turbines.  “The destabilizing of our licensing has in fact
destabilized their commitment to investing downstream in
Malaysia,” Curtis said. “That’s bad for the Malaysian economy
in the longer-term.”  Protests, including a march on Parliament, escalated
following leakages at nuclear  power plants  after  Japan ’s
earthquake and tsunami in March last year. While technologies
used in rare-earth processing are different, local residents and
non-governmental organizations are concerned about the risks of
radiation and what will happen to the waste.  Lobby Campaign  Save Malaysia, Stop Lynas!, a lobby group, has more than
40,000 followers on its  Facebook  page. It also uses a  blog site 
and  Twitter Inc. ’s blogging service. Other sites sprang up as
the campaign became known nationally and abroad.  “Malaysian national media is controlled by several
political parties,” said Jade Lee, a Malaysian environmental
consultant and protester now based in  Melbourne . “Social media
doesn’t have that level of control so people can speak freely
and share their views.”  The Australian miner has filed defamation suits against
Save  Malaysia , Stop Lynas! and online news portal Free Malaysia
Today, according to a statement from the company.  More Conditions  Maximus Johnity Ongkili, Malaysia’s minister of science,
technology and innovation, rejected an appeal by protesters last
month, though set additional licensing conditions. This included
requiring Lynas to submit plans to immobilize any stored
radioactive residue and an emergency response proposal for any
dangerous dust accidentally released into the air.  The miner still needs to appoint and pay for a third-party
assessor to continually monitor the plant, Noor Hasnah Mohamed
Khairullah, a special adviser to the Atomic Energy Licensing
Board, told reporters on June 28.  Lynas must also present an acceptable plan for a permanent
disposal facility for radioactive residue within 10 months of a
temporary operating license being issued, she said. If none is
approved, Lynas would have to export any harmful waste, Noor
Hasnah said. A temporary operating license was awarded in
February subject to conditions.  “Lynas will only be allowed to bring in the rare-earth
into Malaysia after the temporary operating license is issued”
and conditions are met, she said. “It’s in their best interest
to do so as soon as possible. We don’t impose any deadline.”  Radiation from the Pahang project should be “low and
safe,” Higher Education Minister Mohamed Khaled Nordin reported
to Parliament on June 19 after heading a select committee
enquiry into the issue.  Costly Delays  Every month of delay costs as much as A$10 million ($10
million), Curtis said. Lynas has seen its shares  tumble 51
percent  in the past year in Sydney, tracking a 62 percent drop
in  New York  by  Molycorp Inc. (MCP) , the U.S. owner of the largest
rare-earth deposit outside of China. The Australian miner gained
1.8 percent to close at 86 Australian cents today.  Mining stocks have dropped 32 percent in the past year,
according to the Bloomberg World Mining Index, as concern over
the slowing global economy curbed demand for raw materials.
Average prices of  rare earths  have fallen more than half from
record levels in 2011 as consumers reduced purchases or sought
alternative materials.  The U.S., the European Union and Japan asked the  World
Trade Organization  to form a dispute settlement board last week
after complaining about a move by China to limit rare-earth
exports. China has said the restrictions are to conserve the
materials and protect the environment.  Rare Commodity  Lynas’s production delay exacerbates difficulties some
global manufacturers have experienced in sourcing the commodity.  “It reinforces the need for finding a solution outside of
China,” Curtis said. “We are part of that market-based
solution.”  The Malaysian refinery would be capable of processing
22,000 metric tons a year should a second phase be approved and
completed, Lynas said Nov. 16. The company plans to spend 2.5
billion ringgit ($788 million) on the two phases, Mashal Ahmad,
managing director of the miner’s Malaysian unit, said April 20.
At the time he also said the first phase of the plant would be
start a fortnight later.  Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak has sought to boost
investment as he strives to shore up confidence in the
government before elections due by early 2013, unveiling in 2010
an Economic Transformation Program that identified $444 billion
of private-sector led spending projects ranging from mass rail
to oil storage for the current decade.  The nation is set to reach a foreign-direct investment
target of 33 billion ringgit this year, International Trade and
Industry Minister Mustapa Mohamed said May 29.  ‘Special Case’  The Lynas experience “may make potential investors rethink
their investment plans or existing investors to reassess their
positions,” said Azrul Azwar Ahmad Tajudin, chief economist at
Bank Islam Malaysia Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “They should
understand that Lynas is a special case and not an ordinary type
of FDI. The project entails serious implications for the
environment and people’s lives.”  Najib has supported the plant, in his home state, though
has said it must meet all safeguards. Opposition leader  Anwar Ibrahim  said on May 30 he would review any license granted to
Lynas if he comes to power.  The miner agreed in February to sell $225 million of
convertible bonds to help fund its Malaysia project. New York-
based Mount Kellett Capital Management LP agreed to buy $50
million of the bonds initially on behalf of funds it manages and
the balance once conditions are met, the miner said in a Jan. 24
statement.  “Lynas is in a strong financial position at the moment and
capable of working through the issues,” Curtis said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  