-- After Yarnell, Let’s Get Ready to Fight the Next Fire
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-07-04T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/after-yarnell-let-s-get-ready-to-fight-the-next-fire.html
The families of the 19 elite
firefighters  killed  June 30 in a forest fire outside Yarnell,
 Arizona , deserve more than just our gratitude and condolences.
Their memory should prompt governments at all levels to remedy
their failure to deal with the growing threat of these
disasters.  Reducing the cost of future fires, in lives and property,
requires understanding what got us here in the first place. Yes,
climate change has led to drier conditions and more fires: More
than  9 million  acres burned in 2012, an area bigger than  New
Jersey ,  Connecticut  and  Delaware  combined and almost twice the
annual average since 1990.  But even if the world weren’t getting hotter, the dangers
from cataclysmic fires in the American West would be rising. The
number of homes built in what forestry experts call the
“wildland-urban interface” -- the areas where development
meets forests or other wild vegetation -- grew by 6.6 million
from 2000 to 2010, an increase of 18 percent.  The combination of more fires and more houses near
wildlands has put more property at risk. Last year, the federal
government spent  $1.9 billion  fighting forest fires, more than
four times the annual average during the 1990s. Then there are
the costs that can’t be calculated: From 2002 to 2012, 192
firefighters died trying to suppress wildland blazes. Including
Yarnell, 24 more died in the first six months of this year.  The costs of firefighting are inhibiting sensible
prevention. Consider this: In 1991, fighting fires made up  13
percent  of the  U.S. Forest Service ’s total budget. By 2012, it
had increased to more than 40 percent, cannibalizing programs
designed to mitigate fires in the first place.  For example, in 2010, federal agencies “treated” almost 2
million acres of forest at the edge of developed areas -- a
combination of thinning, mulching or setting intentional fires
to reduce the dense fuel that ignites blazes. For 2014, that
target is just  685,000  acres, a drop of more than two-thirds.  Prevention strategies also fall short outside the forest at
the local level. The measures required to protect homes from all
but the worst fires aren’t complicated. They include using more
flame-resistant materials and keeping flammable trees and bushes
farther away from homes.  What’s complicated is the mix of policies -- zoning,
building codes and planning -- required to get homeowners to
adopt those often costly practices.  Such action isn’t always popular. As of 2009, the latest
year for which figures are available, only  25 states  required
local governments to create land-use plans, and only 11
addressed natural hazards such as forest fires in their
statewide plans. In 12 states, the government suggests -- but
doesn’t specify -- what local standards should address. In three
states, including  Texas , officials don’t even do that much.  In theory, states that fail to enact sensible zoning laws
or compel local governments to do so will pay a price for their
inaction. When the Forest Service fights fires on its land, it
also works to protect property in neighboring jurisdictions,
then asks those jurisdictions to pay part of the bill.  One would think that this would push states and communities
to impose tougher rules on developers and residents. The trouble
is, states can simply resist paying their tabs. Fourteen states
owe the Forest Service $205 million for firefighting costs, with
Texas owing the bulk of it -- $185 million, most of it dating to
2011.  It isn’t hard to see why  Washington  would resist playing
debt collector after states and towns are devastated by forest
fires. But sheltering those states from the cost of their
development decisions amounts to an implicit federal subsidy for
communities that allow excessive development at the forest’s
edge and disregard best practices in land planning.  Washington can only do so much. States and localities need
stronger incentives to reduce the impact of these fires. That
can mean rewarding states that pass intelligent zoning rules --
say, by tying those rules to federal forestry funds. It can also
mean pushing harder to recover more of the money the federal
government spends on firefighting.  We can’t blame  climate change  alone when we choose to risk
the lives of firefighters to protect buildings. This means
reconsidering the right to live on the edge of the wilderness,
free from government intrusions into the way we manage our land,
and expecting somebody else to pay the cost of those decisions
if the worst happens.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 