-- Takeout Menus and the Specter of Red Tape
-- B y   C a t h y   M c M o r r i s   R o d g e r s   a n d   L o r e t t a   S a n c h e z
-- 2013-07-04T22:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/takeout-menus-and-the-specter-of-red-tape.html
Republicans and Democrats are engaged
in serious discussions about the policy reforms needed to
achieve sustained economic growth, job creation and  deficit
reduction . As these debates unfold, a number of important
opportunities exist for Congress to provide regulatory relief to
the  U.S. economy .  Menu labeling  represents one example of a
regulation that threatens to impose significant costs on
consumers and small businesses without delivering meaningful
value to the public.  The  Food and Drug Administration  is completing new
regulations for adding calorie labeling on restaurant menus,
mandated by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.
Although we support providing consumers with increased access to
nutritional information, the agency’s proposed regulations are
expensive and ineffective. Fixing this could benefit tens of
thousands of restaurants, grocery stores and convenience stores
that otherwise would be burdened with regulations that will be
costly and stymie  job creation .  The FDA’s menu-labeling proposal would require, for
example, pizza-delivery restaurants to label in-store menu
boards with calorie information, even though the vast majority
of orders are placed by phone or over the Internet. This would
force small businesses to spend thousands of dollars for on-premise menu boards that roughly 90 percent of customers would
never use in making an ordering decision.  2,000 Calories  Moreover, customizable offerings -- salads and sandwiches,
for instance -- can be configured in innumerable variations,
complicating the task of labeling menu boards in stores. To
address this, the FDA has proposed the use of calorie ranges
setting lower and upper bounds for all possible variations of a
particular order. The problem: The ranges can be so wide --
conceivably as much as 2,000 calories in the case of a  pizza  --
that they are useless in providing consumers with helpful
information.  Smart alternatives exist, but aren’t permitted by the FDA’s
proposed regulations. Websites and smartphone apps, which
customers can access anytime and anywhere, wouldn’t meet the
FDA’s planned standards. Rather than promoting innovation, the
agency will require restaurants to maintain calorie labeling of
in-store menu boards, even if the menu boards are rarely
consulted by most customers, and in-store nutrition brochures
are available. Given the rapid growth in Internet access and
smartphones, the FDA should develop guidelines to permit online
compliance.  The FDA’s approach also represents regulatory overreach. As
part of its rule-making process, the agency has proposed that
grocery and  convenience stores  be subject to menu labeling, even
though those businesses aren’t mentioned in the underlying law
approved by Congress. Furthermore, they already label more than
95 percent of the food items they sell. These businesses, which
operate on narrow margins in a highly competitive industry, will
have two choices: either spend on keeping in-store signs up to
date or limit the variety of foods they offer, replacing fresh-cut fruit or salads with prepackaged items that can be easily
labeled. Despite efforts to find workable alternatives, the FDA
seems intent on entangling this sector of the economy in a
bureaucratic solution in search of a real-world problem.  Carrying out the FDA’s regulations will entail considerable
costs. The  Food Marketing Institute , whose members operate
37,000 supermarkets, estimates the first-year cost of compliance
at more than $1 billion. For each restaurant, the maintenance of
in-store menu boards could cost thousands of dollars a year. In
many cases, these burdens will be shouldered by small-business
owners who operate a handful of locations. The Obama
administration’s  Office of Management and Budget  estimates the
menu-labeling regulation to be the third-most-onerous regulation
proposed in 2010, requiring more than 14.5 million hours of
 compliance .  Labeling Exemptions  To ensure that the labeling regulations don’t impose an
undue burden on business, members of Congress from both parties
have introduced the Common Sense Nutrition Disclosure Act of
2013. This legislation would permit innovation and flexibility
and limit labeling mainly to restaurants, exempting supermarkets
and convenience stores that mostly packaged or unprepared food.
Among a number of important provisions, establishments that
primarily serve customers through remote ordering would be able
to comply by posting calorie information online. This would
ensure that consumers get the necessary nutritional information
at lower costs to businesses.  Aside from proving that bipartisanship isn’t dead, the
legislation would limit unnecessary bureaucratic intervention in
the private sector. Through such cooperation, Congress can
advance crucial regulatory relief as the economy continues to
struggle.  (Cathy McMorris Rodgers is a Republican representative from
 Washington ; Loretta Sanchez is a Democrat representative from
 California .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cathy McMorris Rodgers at  riva.litman@mail.house.gov 
Loretta Sanchez at  eduardo.lerma@mail.house.gov   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  