-- Ryan Giggs and Phil Neville to Coach at Manchester United
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-07-04T15:51:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/manchester-united-s-moyes-appoints-ryan-giggs-as-player-coach.html
Manchester United midfielder  Ryan Giggs  will take up the role of player-coach next season, the
Premier League champion said on its  website . Former United
player  Phil Neville  will also join the coaching set-up.  Giggs, 39, signed a one-year contract in March to return
for a 23rd season with United and will now be part of new
manager  David Moyes ’s staff.  “His success and ability to adapt his game over a number
of years gives him an unrivaled perspective on the modern
game,” Moyes, who replaced the retired  Alex Ferguson , said.
“His career is an example to any aspiring young player and I’m
sure that both he and the players will benefit from his new
role.”  Giggs has appeared in a United-record 941 games, scoring
168 goals. He’s won a record 13 league titles, along with four
F.A. Cups and two Champions League crowns.  The Welshman has recently taken his coaching badges and is
due to attain his UEFA Pro License next summer, United said. He
called it a “privilege” to assume his new role.  “I hope I will be able to bring my experience to bear,
having been both a player and part of the  Manchester United 
family for so long,” Giggs said. “It’s no secret that I have
been taking my qualifications and I see this as the first step
in my future career.”  Neville Assistant  Former United defender Neville was hired as an assistant
coach.  Neville, 36, retired last month after eight seasons playing
for Moyes at Everton. He played for United from 1995 to 2005 and
is currently undergoing coaching certification.  “When I retired from football, I knew that I wanted to
continue in the game, it’s something that I have been preparing
for over the last few years,” Neville said on United’s website.
“So when David called to give me this opportunity, I couldn’t
resist. I’ve really enjoyed working with David and his staff as
a player and I think that, together with Ryan, we can make a
real contribution to Manchester United.”  United opens the defense of its Premier League title Aug.
17 at Swansea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 