-- Lanco Rebuffs Griffin Liquidation Concern With Vow to Keep Unit
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h   a n d   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-07-04T15:10:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/lanco-rebuffs-griffin-liquidation-concern-with-vow-to-keep-unit.html
Lanco Infratech Ltd. (LANCI) , an Indian power
company, expects to avoid closing its Australian mining business
even as the unit faces liquidation proceedings for unpaid tax.  “No winding-up order has been issued” against  Griffin
Coal Mining , A. Narasimhan, a spokesman for Lanco, said in an e-mail. “We are confident that there is no basis for winding up
and that the matter with the Australian Taxation Office will be
resolved as soon as possible.”  The tax office has applied to a court in Perth to appoint a
liquidator, according to the Australian Financial Review, which
said Lanco has yet to file a defense. Griffin is among mining
companies including  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and Glencore Xstrata Plc
to suffer from rising costs and slumping coal prices in
 Australia  as demand weakens.  The Lanco unit, acquired by the New Delhi-based utility for
A$730 million ($669 million) in 2011, has delayed pension
payments to workers after reporting losses, according to the
 CFMEU  labor union. It also deferred payments to supplier Dyno
Nobel Pty. Ltd., which has halted deliveries of explosives used
in mines, the CFMEU said.  “Without the supply of explosives, it limits our ability
to produce coal, and that’s where we get our  cash flow  from,”
Gary Wood, the union’s Western Australian district secretary,
said by phone.  Lanco’s Narasimhan declined to comment on payment delays to
employees and vendors.  Power-station  coal prices  at Australia’s Newcastle port, an
Asian benchmark, were $77.75 a metric ton for the week ended
June 28, declining almost 12 percent in the past year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Griffin posted a loss before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization of 1.05 billion rupees ($17.4 million) in the
year through March, almost double the loss a year earlier,
according to a May statement. Annual coal production from its
mines in  Western Australia ’s Collie Basin totals 3.1 million
tons and is due to reach 5 million tons by next March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net ;
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  