-- Manila Water Declines as Regulator Said to Scrap Tax Rule
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-07-04T13:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/manila-water-declines-as-regulator-said-to-scrap-tax-rule.html
Manila Water Co. (MWC)  fell the most in
more than a week after the Philippine Daily Inquirer reported
that the nation’s water regulator scrapped a rule allowing the
utility to pass on tax costs to consumers.  Manila Water slid 3.5 percent to 30.75 pesos in trading in
the city, the biggest loss since June 24 for the water company
that supplies half of the Philippine capital. In comparison, the
Philippine Stock Exchange Index slipped 0.2 percent.  “Investors are pricing in the centavos that will be shaved
from the stock’s earnings per share once the company isn’t
allowed to pass on its tax obligations,” said James Lago, head
of research at Manila-based PCCI Securities Brokers Corp.  The Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System Regulatory
Office rescinded a 9-year-old rule allowing  Manila Water  and
Maynilad Water Services Inc. to recover income tax expenses from
customers, the newspaper reported, citing a resolution adopted
at a June meeting. The companies passed 15.3 billion pesos ($352
million) of corporate taxes to consumers from 2008 to 2012, the
Daily Inquirer said, citing a consumer advocacy group.  “The board has asked the regulatory office to study the
matter further,” MWSS Chairman Ramon Alikpala said in a phone
interview without confirming the rule had been scrapped.  “Uncertainty will continue to weigh down the sector,
capping potential gains in the short term,” Laura Dy-Liacco, an
analyst at Maybank ATR Kim Eng, said in a July 3 report. Manila
Water’s value could drop to 30.50 pesos a share if the
government won’t allow the tax as a valid expense, she said.  Metro Pacific Investments Corp. (MPI) , owner of Maynilad Water,
fell 1.9 percent to 5.20 pesos, snapping a two-day rally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  