-- Anti-Graft Bid Spurs Rudd to Change Australia Labor Branch Rules
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-07-04T01:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/anti-graft-bid-spurs-rudd-to-change-australia-labor-branch-rules.html
Australian Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd 
has intervened in the running of the New South Wales branch of
the ruling  Labor party  in a bid to stamp out corruption that has
hobbled his chances of winning this year’s federal election.  Changes imposed on the branch include zero tolerance of
corruption, a ban on property developers standing as election
candidates, and the establishment of a new appeals tribunal,
Rudd told reporters in Canberra today.  “The time has come to modernize the  Australian Labor
Party ,” Rudd said. “As a party, we must stamp out a culture
that has allowed this type of behavior to take hold.”  Voters in New South Wales have this year heard details at
an anti-corruption inquiry that include allegations former state
Labor lawmaker Eddie Obeid earned millions of dollars from
illegal property deals. Rudd, who challenged and defeated  Julia
Gillard  on June 26 to reclaim the leadership, needs to shore up
support in the nation’s most-populous state, with polls showing
many of the  26 seats  the party won there in 2010 are in
jeopardy.  Craig Thomson , a former national secretary of the Health
Services Union and member for the federal New South Wales seat
of Dobell, faces charges he misused a union credit card to pay
for prostitutes between 2002 and 2007, before he entered
parliament. Thomson, who resigned from Labor and sits in
parliament as an independent, denies the allegations.  The Tony Abbott-led opposition coalition leads Labor by 51
percent to 49 percent on a two-party basis, according to a
Newspoll published in The Australian newspaper July 1. The
measure is designed to gauge which party is most likely to form
government under Australia’s preferential voting system.  Rudd must hold an election before Nov. 30. While Gillard,
Australia’s first female leader, pledged to go to the polls on
Sept. 14, he’s yet to confirm a date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  