-- Attijariwafa’s Ivory Coast Bank Expands as Clients Boost Profit
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2013-07-04T05:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/attijariwafa-s-ivory-coast-bank-expands-as-clients-boost-profit.html
Societe Ivoirienne de Banque, the
Ivorian unit of  Morocco ’s largest publicly traded lender, plans
to open a 43rd branch in the West African country this week as
it attracts new customers.  The bank, 51 percent owned by Casablanca-based Attijariwafa
Bank and 49 percent by the Ivory Coast state, lured an extra
13,000 clients in the first five months of this year, bringing
the total to 193,000, Director-General Daouda Coulibaly said in
a July 1 interview in the nation’s commercial capital, Abidjan.  “Our market share keeps rising,” said Coulibaly, adding
the lender plans to be one of the top three Ivorian banks in the
medium term. “We are developing our network.”  Societe Ivoirienne de Banque, which has almost tripled the
size of its branch network over the past four years, expects
“double-digit” growth in profit this year, said Coulibaly.
Attijariwafa would be interested in increasing its stake in the
lender should the state decide to reduce its holding later this
year, he said, without giving further details.  Societe Ivoirienne de Banque is expanding after post-election violence in 2010 and 2011 killed 3,000 people and
forced many businesses, including lenders, to shut for several
months.  The Attijariwafa unit has become the country’s fourth-largest bank by deposits and loans this year, Coulibaly said,
while net income rose 38 percent to 8.7 billion CFA francs ($17
million) in 2012. The units of Societe Generale SA and Ecobank
Transnational Inc., plus BIAO-Cote d’Ivoire are the country’s
three biggest banks.  Restarting Slowly  The bank’s funding of the cocoa industry in Ivory Coast,
the world’s biggest producer, will probably remain stable this
year at about 40 billion CFA francs, Coulibaly said.  While economic growth is forecast at 9 percent by the
government this year, after expanding 9.8 percent in 2012,
questions over stability and domestic debt are hampering the
recovery in Ivory Coast, he said.  “Activities are restarting slowly,” Coulibaly said.
“Economic operators are in a wait-and-see position.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  