-- Aussie at 75 U.S. Cents Seen by Credit Suisse; TD Flags Cut
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-07-04T04:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/aussie-at-75-u-s-cents-seen-by-credit-suisse-td-flags-rba-cut.html
Australia ’s dollar will extend
declines that have made it the worst-performing major currency
over the past three months, according to Credit Suisse Group AG,
TD Securities Inc. and Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Credit Suisse said the Aussie will drop within 12 months to
75 U.S. cents, a level unseen since May 2009, from 91.10 as of
2:33 p.m. in Sydney. It sees the currency at 87 cents in three
months. TD lowered its Dec. 31 forecast to 90 cents and said the
central bank will cut interest rates this year, while Bank of
America sees it at 89. The Australian currency fell 13 percent
since April 4, the biggest drop among 31 major peers.  Reserve Bank Governor Glenn Stevens said yesterday the
Australian economy will probably get a lower exchange rate if it
needs it, a day after he kept borrowing costs at a record-low
2.75 percent and said the inflation outlook provided scope for
further reductions.  “Our feeling remains that either the dollar will continue
to fall naturally, or the RBA will need to give it another push
with a further interest rate cut,” Credit Suisse strategists
including Singapore-based Ray Farris wrote in an e-mailed note
to clients yesterday.  The Australian dollar touched 90.37 cents yesterday, the
lowest since September 2010. It has fallen 8 percent this year
against 10 developed-nation currencies, the worst performance
after the yen in the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Traders expect at least one more RBA rate cut by Dec. 31,
swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Recession Risk  Prime Minister Kevin Rudd this week flagged the risk of
Australia’s first recession in more than two decades and called
for “full use” to be made of a falling exchange rate to boost
manufacturing, services and agricultural industries.  The statistics bureau said today the number of  permits 
granted to build or renovate houses and apartments fell 1.1
percent in May after climbing a revised 9.5 percent in the
previous period. Figures released yesterday showed gains in
 retail sales  were less than expected in May, while a separate
report indicated sales of new homes climbed at the slowest pace
since they declined in February.  Bank of America said its forecast for a decline to 89 cents
could prove optimistic if the slowdown in China, Australia’s
biggest trading partner, intensifies more than its analysts are
expecting.  China Slowing  “This forecast obviously does not assume a China hard
landing,” said David Woo, the New York-based global head of
rates and currencies at the bank. “This assumes that  China  is
still growing probably somewhere around 7 percent, but anything
lower than that -- and that’s clearly where the risk is --
Aussie will be trading a lot lower.”  China will probably grow 7.7 percent in 2013, the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists showed, which
would be the weakest full-year expansion in 14 years. Analysts
see the Australian economy gaining 2.5 percent this year, the
slowest pace since 2011.  TD Securities lowered its 2013 forecast for gross domestic
product to 2.7 percent from 3 percent previously and now sees
the overnight cash-rate target falling by another 25 basis
points to 2.5 percent by year end, according to an e-mailed note
to clients today.  The bank also lowered its forecasts for the Aussie, saying
it will fall to around 90 cents by Dec. 31 and trade from 85 to
90 cents over 2014. TD previously estimated the currency would
be at 96 cents at year’s end.  “Australian growth has not been as robust as we
expected,”  Annette Beacher , Singapore-based head of Asia-Pacific research at TD Securities, wrote in the note. “The RBA
Board’s insistence that the Australian dollar remains high
despite the 10 big figure correction in recent months speaks to
us that the bank is determined to assist the currency lower in
any means possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  