-- Aussie Dollar Rebounds on Bets Drop Was Excessive
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   M i o   C o x o n
-- 2013-07-04T06:46:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/aussie-rebounds-from-3-year-low-on-bets-drop-excessive.html
The Australian dollar rebounded from
the lowest since September 2010 on speculation it fell too fast
and as investors weighed the odds of an  interest-rate  cut by the
central bank.  The Aussie’s 14-day relative strength index versus the
greenback dropped to 31 yesterday, near the 30 level some
traders see as a sign an asset’s price may reverse direction.
Reserve Bank Deputy Governor  Philip Lowe  said today that markets
misinterpreted Governor Glen Stevens’s comments that policy
makers “deliberated for a very long time” before keeping rates
unchanged this week.  “The Aussie may be hitting a bottom after an excessive
loss,” said  Marito Ueda , senior managing director at  FX Prime
Corp. (8711) , a currency-margin company in  Tokyo .  The Australian dollar rose 0.2 percent to 91.10 U.S. cents
at 4:41 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, when it touched 90.37,
the lowest since September 2010. The Aussie was little changed
at 90.79 yen. It climbed 0.2 percent to NZ$1.1703 from
yesterday, when it touched NZ$1.1653, the weakest since November
2008.  New Zealand ’s kiwi dollar was little changed at 77.85 U.S.
cents from yesterday. It slipped 0.2 percent to 77.58 yen.  The  yield  on Australia’s 10-year government bond added five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 3.79 percent.  RBA Comments  “If the economy ‘needs’ a lower  exchange rate , it will
probably get it,” RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  said in a speech
in Brisbane to the Economic Society of Australia yesterday. The
central bank’s board kept the key interest rate unchanged at a
record low 2.75 percent at a meeting on July 2.  The Aussie slid yesterday and odds for a cut to the RBA’s
key rate increased after Stevens said the board deliberated for
a long time before its decision. Lowe said today that the
governor’s comments were light-hearted.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group reverted to a
previous forecast after Lowe spoke, saying it doesn’t expect an
RBA rate cut until November, according to an e-mail statement
today.  Swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show traders see a 44
percent chance the RBA will lower its key rate to 2.5 percent at
its next meeting on Aug. 6, compared to a 31 percent likelihood
indicated a week ago.  The  number  of permits granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments in  Australia  declined 1.1 percent in May from the
previous month, when they increased a revised 9.5 percent, the
statistics bureau said in Sydney today. That exceeded the 1
percent decrease expected by economists in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Forecast Cuts  The Aussie will extend declines that have made it the
worst-performing major currency over the past three months,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG, TD Securities Inc. and Bank
of America Merrill Lynch. Credit Suisse said it will drop within
12 months to 75 U.S. cents, a level unseen since May 2009. TD
cut its Dec. 31 forecast to 90 while Bank of America sees it at
89.  “Our feeling remains that either the dollar will continue
to fall naturally, or the RBA will need to give it another push
with a further interest rate cut,” Credit Suisse strategists
including Singapore-based Ray Farris wrote in a note to clients
yesterday.  The Aussie has dropped about 11 percent since the RBA
unexpectedly cut its key rate on May 7. The slump also reflects
slowing growth in  China  and comments by Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke , who said on June 19 that U.S. policy makers may
begin slowing bond purchases this year if the economy achieves
sustainable growth.  “I’m skeptical the Aussie will fall significantly further
unless we see a larger deterioration to the outlook for China,”
said Janu Chan, a Sydney-based economist at St. George Bank Ltd.
“The RBA has ramped up the talk about the Aussie being high,
really talking it down in a way and acknowledging that
possibility that the cash rate could fall further.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Mio Coxon in Tokyo at 
 mcoxon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  