-- Aviva Sounds Alarm as Revamp Menaces Company Debt: Poland Credit
-- B y   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2013-07-04T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/aviva-sounds-alarm-as-revamp-menaces-company-debt-poland-credit.html
Poland ’s plan to overhaul private
pension funds will impede growth of corporate bond sales as
it reduces the cash available for buying company debt, local
units of  Aviva Plc (AV/) ,  Allianz SE  and UniCredit Spa said.  Pension funds will cut holdings of corporate debt and think
twice about rolling over outstanding notes after changes,
according to Marcin Pulit of Bank Pekao SA, Poland’s biggest
arranger of corporate bond sales. The 14 privately managed
institutions that invest contributions from 16.2 million Poles
had expanded their corporate bond holdings 2.6 times since the
end of 2010 to 10.9 billion zloty ($3.3 billion), or 3.9 percent
of their assets. German pension funds put 24 percent of their
assets in such debt in 2011.  Companies planning to tap the  bond market  will be well
advised to speed up sales after the government recommended three
alternatives for bolstering public finances while depleting
pension funds’ assets, portfolio managers from Aviva PTE SA and
PTE Allianz Polska SA said July 3. None of the options bodes
well for corporate bonds, which already suffer from low
liquidity caused by scant supply and the tendency of banks and
funds to hold debt to maturity.  “The whole idea risks damaging the market,” Rafal Trzop,
deputy chief investment officer at Allianz’s Warsaw-based
pension fund, which has 8.5 billion zloty of assets under
management. said in an e-mail on July 3. “Under any of the
government’s proposals, pension-fund assets will be depleted,
which reduces the appetite for corporate notes.”  Government Review  Poland published a review of its three-tier pension system,
which includes a second pillar of privately managed funds to
supplement the state-controlled Social Security Fund, on June
26. Its recommendations, meant curb public debt, include
canceling  government bonds  held by pension funds. Under two
other scenarios, all Poles enrolled in the funds would be
transferred back to the pay-as-you-go state system unless they
request to stay.  The government will choose from this policy menu at the end
of August, after a two-month public discussion, Prime Minister
Donald Tusk said on July 2. The 14 pension funds held 280
billion zloty in assets at the end of May, with Treasury debt
accounting for 43 percent of their portfolios, followed by
stocks at 39.6 percent, data from the country’s financial
watchdog show.  ‘Last Call’  Pension funds bought half of Poland’s biggest local-currency issue of company debt, the 2.5 billion-zloty offering
by gas utility  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA  in
June 2012. They took 82 percent of power utility Energa SA’s 1
billion-zloty bond in October and 62 percent of similar-sized
issue by refiner PKN Orlen SA in February of last year.  “It’s last call for issuers to seek financing from
pension funds, provided they’re still willing to take on
illiquid corporate paper,” Maciej Karasinski, Warsaw-based
fixed-income manager in Aviva PTE, Poland’s second-largest
pension fund with 62.8 billion zloty under management, wrote in
e-mail on July 3. “Without us, liquidity will be much lower,
which should widen risk spreads.”  New Sales  New debt sales may be the last thing on local companies’
minds after the U.S. Federal Reserve’s comments on possible
withdrawal of stimulus drove down emerging-market bonds. The
price of 2022 dollar notes from PKO Bank Polski SA, Poland’s
biggest lender, has fallen 6.7 percent so far this year,
compared with a 4.5 percent drop in the  Bloomberg USD Emerging
Market Corporate Bond Index. (BEMC)   Bond sales in the pipeline include a 1.5 billion-zloty
issue from Tauron Polska Energia SA, the state-controlled power
utility, according to April 16 comments by Chief Financial
Officer Krzysztof Zawadzki. Kompania Weglowa, Poland’s biggest
coal producer, wants to sell 1.3 billion zloty of three-year
notes, Chief Financial Officer Jacek Nowak said on May 23.  Polish companies, including banks, sold 4.8 billion zloty
of new zloty notes in first five months of this year, data from
Fitch Ratings show. That compares with 24.9 billion zloty in a
record 2012. PGE SA, the country’s biggest power utility, placed
1 billion of zloty bonds last month after state-owned Bank
Gospodarstwa Krajowego stepped in to buy about half the notes.
Pension and mutual funds accounted for 7 percent of the sale.  ‘Cut Exposure’  “Pension funds may not roll over all of their maturing
debt in coming years and issuers will have to seek other buyers,
which is what we’re advising them to do,” Pekao’s Pulit,
director of fixed-income sales at the Warsaw-based bank, said by
phone on July 3. “They’ll remain very interested in corporate
debt but will be looking to diversify and cut exposure to
individual issuers.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Polish  dollar-denominated bonds  rather than U.S. Treasuries fell two basis
points to 147 yesterday, according to indexes compiled by
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  The additional yield on Poland’s 10-year
zloty bonds over German bunds fell 14 basis points to 229.  The cost of protecting Polish debt against non-payment
using  credit-default swaps  fell one basis point to 94, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Managers from Aviva and Axa’s pension funds said they’re
not planning any immediate adjustments to their strategies while
they await the cabinet’s verdict. Poland’s public debt could
fall by as much as 11 percentage points of gross domestic
product if funds’ government bond holdings are canceled, to be
replaced with individual accounts at the Social Security Fund.  “In theory, we could avoid losing assets by shifting out
of Treasury bonds into stocks and corporate debt, but nobody can
be sure about the final shape of the reform,” Robert Garnczarek, Warsaw-based Chief Executive Officer of Axa PTE
pension fund, which managed 17.6 billion zloty of assets, said
by phone on July 3. “What we can expect is more issuers rushing
to the market before the assets get taken away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David McQuaid at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net  