-- Bank of America Ordered to Face Texas Property Fees Suit
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-07-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/bank-of-america-ordered-to-face-texas-property-fees-suit.html
Bank of America Corp . must face
lawsuit claims brought by a Texas county over government fees it
avoided by using Merscorp Inc. to track property transactions, a
federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Nelva Gonzales Ramos in Corpus Christi
said the case should go to trial over most of Nueces County’s
claims that the bank and other members of MERS, the electronic
mortgage tracking system, have created “chaos” in the local
property records system by naming MERS as the beneficiary in
thousands of mortgage transactions.  Nueces County, which includes Corpus Christi, claims it was
cheated out of fees it should have earned each time a deed was
recorded after a property changed hands. The county alleges that
properties bundled into mortgage securities may have traded
dozens of times within the MERS system without the county being
notified of any change in ownership.  The county’s allegations sufficiently detail “the who,
what, where, when and how of a scheme to circumvent  Texas 
recording law, which resulted in the allegedly fraudulent filing
of hundreds or potentially thousands of documents,” Ramos said
in yesterday’s ruling. She allowed claims against the bank and
MERS for fraudulent misrepresentation, unjust enrichment and
damages of as much as $10,000 for each violation.  “This court cannot simply bend the laws of Texas to fit
the MERS system, no matter how ubiquitous it has become,” Ramos
said. She rejected the bank’s argument that she should “turn a
blind eye to the fact this process does not comply with the
law” because MERS is involved in 50 percent of the county’s
residential mortgages.  Jumana Bauwens,  Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of
America ’s spokeswoman on MERS-related litigation, declined to
comment on the ruling.  The case is Nueces County v. Merscorp Holdings Inc., 2:12-cv-00131, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas
( Corpus Christi ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  