-- Bank of England MPC Comments After July Rate Decision (Text)
-- B y   H a r u m i   I c h i k u r a
-- 2013-07-04T11:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/bank-of-england-mpc-comments-after-july-rate-decision-text-.html
The following is the text of the
 Bank of England  Monetary Policy Committee comments following
the July rate decision:  The  Bank of England ’s Monetary Policy Committee today voted to
maintain the official Bank Rate paid on commercial bank reserves
at 0.5%.  The Committee also voted to maintain the stock of
asset purchases financed by the issuance of central bank
reserves at Stg 375 billion.  Since the May Inflation Report, market interest rates have risen
sharply internationally and asset prices have been volatile.  In
the  United Kingdom , there have been further signs that a
recovery is in train, although it remains weak by historical
standards and a degree of slack is expected to persist for some
time.  Twelve-month CPI inflation rose to 2.7% in May and is set
to rise further in the near term.  Further out, inflation should
fall back towards the 2% target as external price pressures fade
and a revival in productivity growth curbs domestic cost
pressures.  At its meeting today, the Committee noted that the incoming data
over the past couple of months had been broadly consistent with
the central outlook for output growth and inflation contained in
the May Report.  The significant upward movement in market
interest rates would, however, weigh on that outlook; in the
Committee’s view, the implied rise in the expected future path
of  Bank Rate  was not warranted by the recent developments in the
domestic economy.  The latest remit letter to the MPC from the Chancellor had
requested that the Committee provide an assessment, alongside
its August Inflation Report, of the case for adopting some form
of forward guidance, including the possible use of intermediate
thresholds.  This analysis would have an important bearing on
the Committee’s policy discussions in August.  In the light of these considerations, the Committee voted to
maintain the size of its programme of asset purchases financed
by the issuance of central bank reserves at Stg 375 billion.
The Committee also voted to maintain Bank Rate at 0.5%.  The minutes of the meeting will be published at 9.30am on
Wednesday 17 July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Harumi Ichikura in London at 
 hichikura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  