-- Bartoli Moves to Wimbledon Women’s Final by Defeating Flipkens
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-07-04T13:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/bartoli-moves-to-wimbledon-women-s-final-by-defeating-flipkens.html
France ’s Marion Bartoli lost just
three games in her defeat of Belgium’s Kirsten Flipkens to reach
the women’s final of the Wimbledon tennis tournament.  Bartoli won 6-1, 6-2 on Centre Court at the All England
Club in  London . The 28-year-old returns to the final, where she
lost to  Venus Williams  in 2007. Flipkens, 27, received treatment
on her knee during the match.  “I played so great,” Bartoli said in a televised
interview. “Today I saw the ball like a football. I was hitting
the ball very cleanly from the start straight away. Everything
was working perfectly, to do that in a semifinal at Wimbledon on
Centre Court is an amazing feeling.”  The Frenchwoman will play the winner of the semifinal
between  Poland ’s Agnieszka Radwanska and Sabine Lisicki of
 Germany . None of the women’s semifinalists have won the All
England Club singles title.  No. 15 seed Bartoli, who plays two-handed shots from both
sides, hasn’t lost a set on her way to the final. She beat
American Sloane Stephens in the quarterfinals.  Flipkens was the girl’s singles champion at Wimbledon in
2003, but was playing in her first Grand Slam semifinal today.
She was ranked 175th in the women’s WTA tennis tour last year
and didn’t make the field at the All England Club.  The Belgian missed two months of the season this year
because of injuries, including blood clots in her calf, and her
ranking dropped to 262nd. Flipkens, seeded 20th, upset eighth-seeded Petra Kvitova of the  Czech Republic  in the quarterfinals,
losing her only set in her run to the last four.  “Kirsten had an amazing run,” Bartoli said. “I think she
was a bit injured today. She had some incredible matches in the
tournament. I had to give her a hug, because it’s too bad to be
injured after you’ve worked hard to reach the semifinal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at Wimbledon on 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  