-- Batista Said to Weigh Shutting OSX Shipbuilding Business
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-07-04T13:08:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/batista-said-to-consider-shutting-down-osx-shipbuilding-business.html
Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista  is
being asked by advisers to consider shutting down  OSX Brasil
SA (OSXB3) ’s shipbuilding business and sell production platforms to
raise cash, said a person with direct knowledge of the proposal.  Selling assets would allow the company to close the
shipyard, which is still under construction, pay creditors and
possibly leave some cash for shareholders, according to the
person, who asked not to be named because the discussion is
private and a final decision hasn’t been made.  The plan would help Batista reduce debt after his flagship
company, oil producer OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, said
this week it may halt its only oil-producing field, the person
said. Batista’s wealth slumped by $1.1 billion yesterday to $2.9
billion, from $12.4 billion at the beginning of the year as the
value of his shareholdings plunged, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index .  Batista’s holding company, EBX Group Co., referred
questions to OSX’s press office. OSX said in an e-mail it has no
plans to close the shipyard. OSX is analyzing business
alternatives in  Brazil  and elsewhere for the OSX-2 platform and
OSX-1 will be used at the Tubarao Azul field until sister
company and client OGX decides on a new allocation for it.  OSX started building the shipyard at Acu port in
southeastern Brazil in July 2011, saying last month that it was
slowing work there after losing a contract to build 11 ships.
Under the original plan, Rio de Janeiro-based OSX expected to
have it ready in the second quarter of 2014. The vessels the
company owns are being made in shipyards in  Singapore .  Share Plunge  The  shipbuilding company ’s shares tumbled 88 percent this
year as OGX failed to meet targets. This week, OGX scrapped
offshore projects and canceled tentative orders for the OSX-4
and OSX-5 platforms and for three so-called wellhead platforms,
which are used to extract oil from offshore  oil fields .  OSX was created by Batista primarily to supply platforms
and vessels to OGX.  Following this week’s announcements, the oil producer will
pay $449 million compensation to OSX, which also stands to
benefit from OGX’s commitment to continue paying rental fees on
its equipment despite the production failures.  OSX dollar bonds due 2015, which are backed by the OSX-3
platform, were little changed at 85 cents at 10:05 a.m. in  Sao
Paulo .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  