-- Bayview Buys Small Japan Auto Stocks on U.S. Sales, Yen
-- B y   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o
-- 2013-07-04T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/bayview-buys-small-japan-auto-stocks-on-u-s-sales-yen.html
Bayview Asset Management Co., a
Tokyo-based hedge fund, is buying shares of smaller Japanese
autoparts exporters because they are cheap and have more to gain
from a weaker yen amid growing U.S. car sales.  The yen will fall to 105 against the dollar by year-end,
benefiting smaller domestic partsmakers more than larger
exporters that shifted production overseas, according to Ichiro Takamatsu, manager of the  Japan  Concentrated Small Mid Cap Fund
that reported a 110 percent gain this year. A weaker yen makes
goods made in Japan more cost-competitive when exported and
increases the value of overseas sales when repatriated,
providing a double boost to earnings.  The  Topix index  has surged 62 percent since mid-November as
the yen weakened amid promises by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and
the Bank of Japan to spur inflation and reignite economic
growth. Japanese company earnings will rise 58 percent this
fiscal year, according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Japan’s equity markets are going to be earnings-driven
from here on,” said Takamatsu, who oversees 4.6 billion yen
($46 million). “Many small partsmakers still have their
factories in Japan, while big final-goods makers such as Sony or
Nissan have shifted production abroad. So a weaker yen will
boost small-cap profits even more.”  A recovery in the U.S. auto industry will also energize
earnings, Takamatsu said. Light-vehicle sales climbed 9.2
percent to 1.4 million in June, exceeding the 1.38 million
average estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Total
annualized  sales  surged last month as Americans bought new cars
and trucks at the fastest rate since November 2007, according to
Bloomberg data.  Takamatsu’s fund invests in no more than 20 companies, each
with market value of less than 200 billion yen. He declined to
name the autoparts and materials companies he’s buying.  Low Valuations  Unipres Corp. (5949)  and  Calsonic Kansei Corp. (7248) , both in the
sector, trade at less than 10 times forecast earnings per share
and are valued at less than net assets, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Each gets more than 44 percent of sales
overseas. Companies in the sector trade at a median of 11.4
times trailing earnings, compared with 14.1 times for the Topix
Small Index.  The yen has fallen 24 percent against the dollar since mid-November on optimism Abe’s policies to increase government
spending, boost inflation and deregulate the economy will spur
growth. The BOJ has pledged to continue record monetary easing
until meeting a 2 percent inflation goal, while the Federal
Reserve may begin cutting asset-purchases if the U.S. economy
meets projections. The yen traded at 99.64 to the dollar as of 7
p.m. yesterday in Tokyo, after breaching 103 in May.  Yen Outlook  “The currency will weaken as the yield gap between Japan
and the U.S. widens,” Takamatsu said. “Some small-cap
exporters were sold when the yen strengthened from late May. Now
investors are looking at them again.”  Real-estate investment adviser  Kenedix Inc. (4321)  and J Trust
Co., a financial services provider, helped drive the fund’s
returns since the rally began, Takamatsu said. Kenedix surged
550 percent from mid-November to its April 10 high, while J
Trust soared 256 percent to its peak on April 23. Takamatsu has
sold shares of Kenedix and still holds J Trust.  The Topix Small Index, whose 1,209 members all have market
capitalization of less than $2.5 billion, traded at 0.87 times
book value yesterday, compared to 1.25 for the broader Topix
gauge. The TSE Second Section Price Index of smaller companies
trades for 0.74 times the value of net assets.  “There are so many small and mid-cap stocks trading at
less than book value,” Takamatsu said. “The rally is expected
to continue in the second half of the year. If you don’t buy
them now, when do you buy them?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaaki Iwamoto in  Tokyo  at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  