-- Beckham-Endorsed China Car Rental Company Predicts First Profit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-04T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/beckham-endorsed-china-car-rental-company-predicts-first-profit.html
China Auto Rental Holdings Inc. (CARH) ,
which calls itself the country’s biggest car-rental provider,
said it will turn profitable for the first time this year as it
pursues an initial public offering of its stock.  “We will certainly make profit this year,” Charles Lu,
43, chairman and founder of the Beijing-based company, said in
an interview in the Chinese capital yesterday. The company will
seek an IPO in “the U.S. or  Hong Kong ,” though it won’t happen
this year, he said.  China  Auto Rental, which counts Legend Holdings Ltd. and
 Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ)  among its major shareholders,
withdrew an application for a U.S. IPO last year as investor
appetite for mainland Chinese companies evaporated since 2010
amid accounting scandals and share declines.  Lu said that license-plate restrictions in major cities,
increases in taxi fares and a campaign to cut costs of
government cars are benefiting China’s auto-rental industry by
increasing demand for vehicle leases.  “We never expected us to be expanding at such a fast
pace” when the business was set up in 2007, Lu said during the
hour-long interview at his office in northeast Beijing.  Lu, who graduated from the University of Science and
Technology in Beijing, is a self-professed soccer fan. The
 company  is a sponsor of the Chinese professional soccer league
and last month signed former Manchester United and Real Madrid
star  David Beckham  to endorse the company.  China Auto Rental, which operates the zuche.com website,
had about 700 outlets spread across 66 cities and 52 major
airports in the country at the end of last year, according to
Lu. It maintains a fleet of about 50,000 vehicles serving about
a million individual clients, and uses Internet-delivered cloud
technology to help customers track and manage their rentals, he
said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  