-- Boat People Fix Tops Australia Leader Rudd’s Jakarta Agenda
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-07-04T05:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/boat-people-fix-tops-australian-leader-rudd-s-jakarta-wish-list.html
Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd
begins an Indonesia visit today as he seeks to make headway on
an issue that has dogged the ruling  Labor party  for years: How
to stop asylum seekers arriving on the country’s shores.  A week after ousting  Julia Gillard  as leader, and with
Labor trailing the opposition coalition in opinion polls before
a ballot due to be held by the end of November, Rudd needs to
tackle voter discontent over the government’s inability to stem
the flow of asylum seekers who have paid people smugglers in
Indonesia for a place on a boat, often after starting their
journey in war-torn countries like  Afghanistan .  While the number of arrivals is a tiny slice of the 15.4
million people worldwide classified as refugees last year, radio
shock-jock hosts often field calls from voters concerned the
arrivals have taken priority over other refugees, are soaking up
welfare payments or involved in terrorism.  Rudd will be under pressure to come away from his meetings
with Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono with a plan.
Even so, “I’d be surprised if he can achieve anything more than
the first step because Indonesia doesn’t have a great respect
for our asylum-seeker policies,” former Prime Minister Malcolm Fraser said in an interview. “We’ve got to establish a humane,
decent, practical policy that voters will support. It can’t be
fixed in three or four months.”  Between 2002 and 2004, 69 refugees arrived in  Australia  on
three boats; last year, 17,202 came on 278 vessels, according to
figures from the  Refugee Council . Others, often from strife-torn
nations in the  Middle East  and  South Asia , never made it. A
total of 805 asylum seekers died on their way to Australia since
October 2009, according to the Department of Immigration.  Stopping Boats  Opposition Leader  Tony Abbott  has pledged to “stop the
boats” should he win government this year, a policy which would
include towing vessels back to Indonesian waters. While Rudd
last week said such a policy risks creating conflict with
Indonesia, Foreign Minister Bob Carr has toughened Labor’s
rhetoric, calling some asylum seekers “middle class” and
saying Australia needed to be “more hard-edged” in processing
claims.  The idea of towing back boats -- often rickety and leaking
-- is “ludicrous,” said Fraser, who as Liberal-National prime
minister from 1975 to 1983 ushered in Australia’s first major
wave of non-white immigrants. “There are very few economic
refugees that would get on those boats. It’s people who are
living in terror that will do that.”  Yudhoyono’s Challenge  In  Indonesia , the issue is one with little political
mileage for Yudhoyono ahead of parliamentary and presidential
elections next year, according to Sam Bateman, a senior research
fellow at the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies in
 Singapore .  Yudhoyono, who cannot run for a third term, has “to be
very careful for his domestic audience in terms of not appearing
to concede too much to the Australian interests,” Bateman said.
“There is an inherent Indonesian sensitivity to interference.”  Speaking today in Canberra before his flight, Rudd sought
to downplay expectations of a solution to prevent people
smugglers operating out of Indonesia. “Don’t hold your breath
for some bright and breezy announcement out of Jakarta this time
tomorrow afternoon that everything is all fixed,” he said.  While growth in Indonesia was forecast by the  World Bank  to
slow to 5.9 percent this year, demand from  China  for its palm
oil, coal and iron has fueled a decades-long investment surge in
 Southeast Asia ’s largest economy. Two-way  trade  between the
world’s largest Muslim nation and Australia reached A$14.9
billion ($13.6 billion) in the year to June 30, 2012.  Australia’s major merchandise exports to Indonesia are
wheat, metals including aluminum, copper and iron, and crude,
according to government figures.  More Beef  Increasing beef exports will also be on Rudd’s agenda after
Australia tightened animal welfare standards in the wake of
reports of cruelty in Indonesian abattoirs, The Australian
newspaper said yesterday, without saying where it got the
information.  The two will discuss animal husbandry issues, including
cattle, Indonesia Foreign Minister Marty Natalegawa said in
Jakarta yesterday. That discussion should concern Australian
investment and not only trade, he said.  Asked if people smuggling would be discussed, he said: “If
Australia raises it, then of course it will be discussed. But we
have been consistent in saying the solution of this problem
shouldn’t be shouldered by one country alone. This requires
joint effort by the country of destination, transit such as
Indonesia, and also the country of origin.”  Border Security  Rudd would use the Indonesian government as a “prop” for
his election campaign, opposition Immigration Minister Scott
Morrison said yesterday. “If  Kevin Rudd  goes up there and just
wants to hand out a whole bunch of goodies to the Indonesian
government with nothing in return, well that’s a matter for
him.”  The immensity of Indonesia’s coastline, an archipelago of
17,000 islands, means Yudhoyono can do little to address Rudd’s
concerns, according to Susan Kneebone, a professor of forced
migration and human rights at  Monash University ’s Faculty of Law
in  Melbourne .  “The Indonesians think we are arrogant and hostile in the
approach that we take,” Kneebone said. The asylum-seeker issue
is “out of kilter in terms of our intake in global terms and
the degree it has taken hold in the minds of the public.”  Australia received 29,610 asylum applications and
recognized 8,367 people  as refugees  in 2012, according to the
Refugee Council. It resettled 5,937 refugees last year, the
world’s third-highest, compared with 66,289 in the U.S. and
9,624 in  Canada .  Processing Centers  Carr said the asylum seekers were a problem for both
Indonesia and Australia, with Indonesia “our nearest, important
neighbor.” In an interview with Bloomberg in  Seoul , Carr added
he is confident of a positive outcome from Rudd’s trip, which he
said is more than “just about asylum seekers.”  Successive governments have struggled with limiting boat
arrivals. Then-leader Gillard last year reopened processing
centers in  Papua New Guinea  and Nauru, which some commentators
said was a return to former Prime Minister  John Howard ’s policy
of holding applicants in offshore processing camps or remote
onshore detention centers.  “We will decide who comes to this country and the
circumstances in which they come,” Howard said in an October
2001 campaign speech. Months earlier he refused to let 430
asylum seekers rescued by a Norwegian freighter enter Australian
waters.  Howard’s words “resonated with voters, who were concerned
Australia was losing control of its borders,” said Haydon
Manning, a politics professor at Flinders University in
Adelaide. Still, “if all Australians were so xenophobic, we
would never have handled this massive transformation” to a
“robust multicultural society with so little intolerance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  