-- Bona Film Seeks Top Billing in China With Hollywood’s Aid
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-07-04T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/bona-film-seeks-top-billing-in-china-with-hollywood-s-aid.html
Bona Film Group Ltd. (BONA)  founder Yu Dong
is trying to build  China ’s largest private filmmaker into a
global player, and to get there he’s calling on one of
Hollywood’s tried-and-true plots: A great train robbery.  “Moscow Mission,” about a series of robberies on a line
linking Beijing to Moscow, is one of four Chinese-language
movies Yu is developing with  21st Century Fox Inc. (FOXA)  The project
joins an American screenwriter with a Chinese director and
actors. A Chinese writer will probably be called in, too. He’s
working on a fifth film with  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures .  Yu is tapping Hollywood expertise as Beijing-based Bona
seeks to exploit soaring demand for home-grown films. Ticket
sales in China rose 27 percent to 10.3 billion  yuan  ($1.68
billion) in the first half of 2013, led by local productions,
the  China Daily  reported this week. Ernst & Young predicts the
country, with box-office sales growing about 30 percent a year,
will pass the U.S. as the biggest market by 2020.  “If Bona is able to control 7 to 10 percent of the market
going forward, we’re in position to become one of the biggest
film companies in the world,” Yu said in an interview through a
translator. “Given the really rapid growth, this is the market
we want to focus on.”  Bona owns theaters and a talent agency, along with
production and distribution. Yu sold a 20 percent stake to  News
Corp . last year, before Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  split that
company into separate entertainment and publishing businesses.  Local Profits  Yu competes with companies including the government-backed
China Film Group, the country’s largest producer and
distributor, and  Huayi Brothers Media Corp. (300027) , which is
independent. Bona and Huayi must navigate an official censorship
board and government controls over distribution. Like its
competitors, Bona also distributes Hollywood films.  Bona and Fox say that over the long run, lower-cost
Chinese-language movies will yield a higher return than foreign
blockbusters.  Tallies for the first half of 2013 support the premise.
Box-office sales for domestic films more than doubled during the
first half of this year, accounting for 63 percent of ticket
sales,  China Daily  reported on July 2.  Chinese films account for four of the top five releases
this year, according to EntGroup, a Beijing-based researcher.
Huayi Brothers’ “Journey to the West: Conquering the Demons”
was the top-grossing movie with sales of $199.8 million.  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) ’s “Iron Man 3” was second with $121.3 million.  Yu recently finished a tour aimed at assuring U.S.
investors that the company, down 15 percent on the Nasdaq Stock
Market this year, will continue to build its production,
distribution, theaters and talent agency.  Stock Buyback  “Investors don’t understand the China market,” Yu said.
“I’ve been actively buying back stock in the past six months,
to show my confidence.”  Fox bought its stake from Yu’s personal holdings, a
transaction that left Yu with 27 percent of the company,
according to a statement at the time. Since then, his holdings
have grown to 30 percent, according to company materials
presented at an investor conference last month.  The drop in Bona shares coincides with the decline in
Chinese mainland indexes. The  Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  and the  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  of stocks on the Shanghai and
Shenzhen exchanges are down more than 10 percent this year on
weaker global and domestic demand for Chinese products.  Bona fell 1.2 percent to $4.20 on July 3 in  New York . The
company first sold American depositary receipts in the U.S. in
December 2010 at $8.50. Each receipt equals one-half of an
underlying share.  Yu’s Judgment  In addition to film production and distribution, Bona owns
20 cinemas with plans to increase its theater chain to 40 by
2014, Yu said. Although he may invest at some point in large
Hollywood films made for global audiences to expand Bona’s
exposure, it will never be the company’s focus.  Success hinges on Yu’s ability to make movies people want
to see. “The Last Tycoon,” released in December 2012, failed
to attract a large audience, said  Doug Creutz , a Cowen & Co.
analyst in  San Francisco  who recommends the stock.  Bona has said revenue could increase to $800 million
annually in five years, with growth in China’s film market,
Hollywood co-productions, theater expansion and library revenue,
Creutz wrote in a May 31 note, citing a presentation. Sales
totaled $142 million in 2012.  The company is pursuing agreements with Internet streaming
services to expand revenue beyond ticket sales, Creutz said.  First Quarter  First-quarter profit excluding some items dropped to $1.2
million, or 3 cents a share, from $3.3 million, or 5 cents, from
a year earlier. Sales fell 0.8 percent to $43.3 million, Bona
said on May 16, as the company distributed fewer films.  New movies in the pipeline, such as “Moscow Mission,”
should perform better, Yu said. The company will release 16
films this year, up from 13 in 2012. Box-office sales of Bona
films are projected to double this year, according to Mark Marostica, a Piper Jaffray Cos. analyst in  Minneapolis .  “They’ve built a relatively diversified business,” Creutz
said. “It’s really just going to come down to their ability to
keep their pipeline full and market their films successfully.”  Sanford Panitch, president of Fox International
Productions, which makes local-language films with Bona and
other Chinese companies, said producers in both countries can
benefit from closer ties.  “There’s getting to be a very good understanding in China
of what makes a good commercial movie,” Panitch said.  Studios may find there is as much money to be made in the
local-language market as in exporting home-grown product, said
Dominic Ng, chairman and chief executive officer of  Pasadena ,
California-based  East West Bancorp. (EWBC)  The bank helped arrange a
$20 million loan to finance production for Bona last November.  “The U.S. studios are going to have to compete with
domestic Chinese studios on getting the audience,” Ng said.
“The U.S. studios need to spend more time studying how to
develop stories that appeal to Chinese audiences.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  