-- Bryan Brothers Go for Golden Slam in Wimbledon Doubles Final
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-07-04T23:32:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/bryan-brothers-go-for-golden-slam-in-wimbledon-doubles-final.html
American twins Bob and  Mike Bryan 
have a chance to go golden this weekend.  A victory against Ivan Dodig and Marcelo Melo in the
Wimbledon men’s doubles final tomorrow would give the 35-year-old brothers all four Grand Slam tennis titles plus the Olympic
gold medal at the same time, a feat dubbed the “Golden Slam.”
They’ve won every major title since losing in last year’s
semifinals at the All England Club.  “It’s pretty cool,” Mike Bryan said. “Definitely a great
opportunity to do something a team’s never done before. We’re
just going to go out there and have fun. There’s not a huge
amount of pressure. We’re going to try to go out and win the
Wimbledon title, which we’ve done before.”  The top-seeded brothers, who captured Wimbledon titles in
2006 and 2011, yesterday beat Rohan Bopanna and Edouard Roger-Vasselin 6-7 (4-7), 6-4, 6-3, 5-7, 6-3 in the semifinals.  Croatia ’s Dodig and Melo, a Brazilian, are seeded 12th in
the tournament and are appearing in their first Grand Slam
final. The Bryans lost last year to Britain’s Jonathan Marray
and Frederik Nielsen of  Denmark , who went on to win the final.  Along with their two championships, the brothers are three-time runners-up at the London grass-court major.  A victory also will keep them on track for a calendar-year
sweep of the four Grand Slam titles, which has only been done by
one other men’s doubles team, Australians Ken McGregor and Frank
Sedgman in 1951.  The brothers are looking to win their 91st tour-level title
and 15th major in 24 finals, and are on a 23-match win streak.
Dodig and Melo, who first played together last year, present a
new challenge to the Bryans.  “When you play a new team, sometimes you’re playing a team
during kind of their honeymoon period,”  Bob Bryan  said.
“Everything is fresh and new. They’re swinging for the fences.
It is tough.  When a new team comes together, you really have to
watch some tape and figure out what they’re doing different.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  