-- Canada Dollar Gains With Signals of Stimulus From Europe
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-07-04T21:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/canada-dollar-falls-with-crude-oil-as-egypt-concern-eases.html
The Canadian dollar pared losses
after the Bank of England and European Central Bank assured
investors interest rates would remain low, bolstering the allure
of riskier assets.  The currency fell earlier before a report tomorrow that
will show  Canada  lost 7,500 jobs in June after adding 95,000
positions the month before, according to a Bloomberg survey of
20 economists. A U.S. report is expected to show job gains. The
Federal Reserve has tied the reduction of its monetary stimulus
program to improvements in the job market even as the world’s
other central banks have said slow growth warrants more action.  “There is now more optimism because two important central
banks are committed to very accommodative monetary policy, and
that should help with risk appetite,” said Jane Foley, senior
currency strategist at Rabobank International, by phone from
 London . “If you have the ECB, the Bank of  Japan , the Bank of
England all maintaining very accommodative monetary policy, then
even if the Fed begins to taper investors should be assured
there’s still a huge amount of liquidity out there.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known, declined 0.1
percent to C$1.0515 per U.S. dollar at 5:00 p.m. in Toronto. One
loonie buys 95.10 U.S. cents. The loonie earlier fell as low as
C$1.0558.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year  bonds  were little changed after
rising earlier. The 1.5 percent bond maturing in June 2023
yielded 2.42 percent while the price fell 3 cents to C$92.00.  Futures of crude oil fell 0.1 percent to $101.12 per
barrel. The U.S. stock market is closed today for an American
holiday.  Carney, Draghi  Bank of England Governor Mark Carney signaled the central
bank will keep interest rates at a record low for longer than
investors had expected today. In a separate statement later, ECB
President Mario Draghi said interest rates will stay low for an
“extended period.”  A report on non-farm payrolls in the U.S., Canada’s largest
trade partner, is forecast to show 165,000 job gains tomorrow.  “Non-farm is by far the bigger release for Canada,”
 Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at  Bank of Nova
Scotia (BNS) , said by phone from Toronto. “I think markets will be
really forgiving of a weak Canadian data print just because of
how much we performed last month.”  The U.S. Federal Reserve has been buying $85 billion of
bonds per month in an effort to drive down interest rates and
stimulate the economy. Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said at a press
conference June 19 that bond purchases could end by the middle
of next year if the U.S. economy continues to improve.  The cost to insure against declines in the U.S. dollar
versus its U.S. peer fell to its lowest in two weeks.  Risk Reversals  The one-month so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate fell as
low as 1.5825, the least since June 19. Risk reversals measure
the premium on options contracts to sell Canadian dollars versus
buying U.S. contracts that do the opposite.  The Canadian dollar has risen 0.4 percent in the last month
against nine developed nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar has
increased 2.3 percent while the Australian dollar led declines
with a 3.3 percent drop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  