-- Chavez’s 70% Gold Bet Unravels as Reserves Plunge: Andes Credit
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-07-04T17:37:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/chavez-s-70-gold-bet-unravels-on-reserves-plunge-andes-credit.html
The bet on gold that former
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez made in the final years of his
life is collapsing at the wrong time for his country.  Chavez, who argued that  Venezuela  should move away from the
“dictatorship of the dollar,” stockpiled more than 70 percent
of Venezuela’s foreign reserves in gold by 2012, the highest
percentage among all emerging-market countries and more than 50
times that held by neighbors Colombia and Brazil, according to
the  World Gold Council .  After rewarding Venezuela with a rally of almost 400
percent in the past decade, gold has tumbled 25 percent this
year, helping drive the central bank’s reserves to an eight-month low and compromising the government’s ability to repay
foreign debt. The yield on Venezuela’s dollar-denominated bonds
has risen 62 basis points, or 0.62 percentage point, to 11.84
percent in the past month, compared with an average increase of
57 basis points for other countries in Latin America.  “Venezuela’s reserves have taken a big hit,” Francisco Rodriguez, an economist at Bank of America Corp., said by phone
from New York. If current gold price levels continue, “then you
will see an increase in perception that Venezuela’s capacity to
pay is weakening.”  Default Swaps  Central bank  reserves  fell below $25 billion last week from
as much as $29.9 billion last year even as Chavez’s handpicked
successor, Nicolas Maduro, has cut dollar supplies for
importers, creating shortages of everything from toilet paper to
butter. Standard & Poor’s reduced Venezuela’s credit rating to
its lowest in eight years last month as the shortages worsened
and consumer prices rose at the fastest pace in Latin America.  The cost to insure Venezuelan debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps has climbed 377 basis
points this year to 1,024 basis points. The cost was little
changed today at 1:34 p.m. New York time.  The 970 basis-point premium that investors demand to buy
Venezuelan dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries is the second
highest in  emerging markets  after Argentine debt, according to
JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index.  The rally in gold had enabled Chavez, who died of cancer in
March, to siphon off $45.8 billion from the central bank to an
off-budget development fund since 2005 while keeping reserves
above $25 billion for most of the period, according to the
Finance Ministry. The fund, known as Fonden, invests in
infrastructure projects.  The central bank didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  Black Market  “Not only have total reserves fallen we also have the
lowest level of cash reserves,” Jose Manuel Puente, an
economics professor at the IESA business school in Caracas, said
by phone. “By having a low position in cash reserves the
central bank’s capacity to address the foreign-exchange market
weakens.”  The government has held only one auction of dollars since
introducing a new exchange system in March, forcing many
importers to turn to the black market for funds.  The dollar cost 31.4 bolivars on the black market in the
Colombian border town of Cucuta, according to the website
DolarToday.com, compared with the official exchange rate of 6.3.  As the supply of dollars dries up, the central bank’s
scarcity index, which tracks the number of staple goods out of
stock on supermarket shelves, rose to a five-year high of 21.3
percent in April, before dropping back to 20.6 percent in May.  At the same time,  inflation  accelerated to 35.2 percent in
May from 20.1 percent last year, faster than any of 103
economies tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘Excessive Demand’  “Venezuela has been losing cash reserves because of an
excessive demand for dollars from the import sector due to an
overvalued exchange rate,” said Victor Olivo, an economist at
the Universidad Central de Venezuela in Caracas and a former
economist at the central bank. “This is a government which
consumes lots of funds in projects that don’t generate dollars
and almost the only export is oil. There are underlying problems
that need to be resolved.”  Even now, the government should be able to maintain current
levels of currency reserves by transferring cash back from off-budget funds, said Benjamin Ramsey, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase
& Co. Fonden had $16.9 billion in assets at the end of 2012,
according to its annual report.  Still, by repatriating 160 tons of 211 tons held in U.S.,
European and Canadian banks starting in 2011, Chavez limited the
central bank’s ability to sell the metal as it seeks to shore up
its reserves, Ramsey said.  QE Unwind  “It’s limited the operational use of that gold,” he said
in a phone interview from New York.  Venezuelan reserves were sufficient to cover a month’s
worth of imports in 2012, compared with 10 months in 2005,
 according to the World Bank .  Brazil ’s reserves covered 13 months
of imports in 2012, while Colombia and  Chile  had enough for five
months.  Moreover, Venezuelan reserves are lower than calculated by
the central bank, according to Tamara Herrera, chief economist
at Caracas-based financial consultancy Sintesis Financiera. The
bank uses a six-month moving average for bullion, which has
delayed the impact of the slump in prices, she said.  Gold prices and Venezuela’s reserves may fall further if
the U.S. Federal Reserve slows its program of asset purchases,
known as quantitative easing, or QE, said HSBC Securities Inc.
analyst James Steel.  “The market is vulnerable to another sell-off possibly
when QE tapering actually happens,” Steel said in an interview
July 3 on Bloomberg Radio’s “ Bloomberg Surveillance .”  Oil Dollars  Bullion futures slid 23 percent in the second quarter, the
most since at least 1975, as Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the Fed may slow its bond-buying program as the
U.S. economy strengthens.  As falling gold prices whittle away reserves, Venezuela is
also receiving less dollars from state oil company  Petroleos de
Venezuela SA , whose exports dropped 13 percent to a two-year low
in the first quarter.  While the government spent $59.3 billion on imports last
year, PDVSA expects to transfer only $41.5 billion to the
central bank this year, Oil Minister Rafael Ramirez said March
19.  “There are some fundamental structural problems in
Venezuela and the issue of the gold reserves is an aggravator,”
said Bianca Taylor, senior sovereign analyst at Loomis Sayles &
Co LP in  Boston . With a potential balance-of-payments crisis
looming, “having reserves in gold in a bear market for gold
makes it even more difficult for them.’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  