-- China Rongsheng’s Government-Aid Call Drives Shares Down
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-07-05T09:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/china-rongsheng-seeks-government-support-as-interim-loss-looms.html
China Rongsheng Heavy Industries
Group Holdings Ltd. (1101) , the nation’s biggest shipyard outside state
control, sought government financial support as orders plunged,
sending its shares to a record low.  The shipbuilder  fell  16 percent in Hong Kong trading after
 saying  it had a loss in the first half and that it was
“gradually” reducing production. The company lost about HK$2
billion ($258 million) in market value after saying on July 3
that some idled contract workers had surrounded the entrance of
its main factory in Jiangsu province.  Rongsheng is also “restructuring” its  workforce  and is in
talks with financial institutions about renewing credit
facilities, it said in a statement today, without elaborating.
Trading in the company’s  shares  resumed in  Hong Kong  after a
suspension yesterday following a Wall Street Journal report the
shipbuilder eliminated about 8,000 jobs.  “The capital shortfall at  China  Rongsheng looks pretty
serious,” Ronald Wan, a committee member at the Hong Kong
Securities and Investment Institute, said by telephone today.
“The financial support it is going to get from the government
or shareholders would only be enough to stop the situation from
getting worse.”  Billionaire shareholder and co-founder Zhang Zhirong agreed
to provide an interest-free 200 million yuan ($33 million) loan
to the Shanghai-based yard, it said in the statement. Zhang
owned a 28 percent stake as of Jan. 24, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Working Capital  Rongsheng is in talks to renew credit facilities “to ease
the pressure on the Group’s working capital and ensure the
Group’s stable production and operations,” according to the
statement.  Shares of the shipyard  closed  at 89 Hong Kong cents, the
lowest since the company’s 2010 listing. The stock has dropped
28 percent this year, compared with an 8 percent decline in the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Ministry of Industry and Information Technology spokesman
 Wang Lijian  said he couldn’t immediately comment when asked if
Rongsheng had contacted the agency about government assistance.
Faxed-questions requested by Wang weren’t immediately responded
to. Four calls to the press office of  Shanghai ’s city government
went unanswered.  China, the world’s biggest shipbuilding nation, may see a
third of its yards shut down in about five years amid a global
vessel glut, according to the China Association of National
Shipbuilding Industry.  Credit Crunch  Yards may also face labor unrest after cutting jobs and
diversifying into offshore equipment to offset the order slump,
while contending with the nation’s worst credit crunch in at
least a decade. Rongsheng said some workers who were “made
redundant” formed a blockade outside the headquarters of the
group’s production base in Nantong on July 2.  There has been no strike or other industrial actions by
existing workers, the company said in its statement.  “Because of the overall market, there’s no way out for the
companies; so only the strongest will survive,” said Sarah Wang, a Shanghai-based analyst at Masterlink Securities Corp.
“Life for China’s shipyards will be tougher this year as any
form of credit crunch is critical.”  Rongsheng’s principal banks are Export-Import  Bank of
China , China Development Bank,  Bank of China Ltd. , and Shanghai
Pudong Development Bank Co., according to its 2012 annual
report.  Order Book  Bank of China didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed
request seeking comment. Spokesmen for Pudong Bank and Export-Import Bank didn’t answer calls to their office and mobile
phones. Two calls to China Development Bank’s publicity
department went unanswered.  The order book at China’s shipbuilders fell 23 percent at
the end of May from a year earlier, according to data from the
shipbuilders’ group. Yards have reduced down-payment
requirements, with some slashing their rates to as little as 2.5
percent of contract value compared with 20 percent before 2010,
according to UOB-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd.  Lending Clampdown  The nation’s clampdown on excessive short-term borrowing
sent the overnight repurchase rate to a record 13.91 percent
last month, forcing at least 22 companies including  China
Development Bank  Corp., a backer of the shipping industry, to
cancel or delay bond sales. Economic growth in China has held
below 8 percent for the past four quarters, the first time that
has happened in at least 20 years.  “Currently financial institutions themselves may have
tight liquidity, so they are reluctant to lend money to
companies in this sector,” China Association’s Wang said. “If
they can help some good companies, there would be no problems.”  “Rongsheng’s move reflects the bad market,” said Lawrence Li, an analyst at UOB-Kay Hian in Shanghai. “More small-to-medium sized shipyards, especially those that lack government
support, may take the same actions or even close down.”  Rongsheng had as many as 38,000 workers including its own
employees and contract staff at the peak of the industry boom a
few years ago, UOB-Kay Hian’s Li said. Brazil and  Greece 
accounted for more than half of Rongsheng’s 2012  revenue ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Annual Loss  The company posted a loss of 572.6 million  yuan  last year,
after three consecutive years of profits, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It had short-term debt of 19.3 billion
yuan as of the end of 2012, the data show.  The shipbuilder targets new ship and offshore orders worth
more than $2.3 billion this year, Chairman Chen Qiang said in
Hong Kong in March. The company pared about 3,000 employees last
year as it aims to return to profit this year, he said at the
time.  Rongsheng’s cash conversion cycle, a gauge of days required
to convert resources into cash, more than doubled to 582 last
year from 224 in 2011, the data show.  Ten of the 14  analysts  tracked by Bloomberg recommend
selling Rongsheng stock with the rest rating it hold. The
company raised HK$14 billion ($1.8 billion) in its initial
public offering in 2010.  Ship prices for a vessel that can carry as many as 13,500
boxes fell to $106 million in April, which was then the lowest
since Clarkson Plc started compiling the figures in June 2008.
Contracts for new vessels halved to $84.7 billion in 2012,
compared with $174.7 billion in 2008, according to Clarkson.  Korean Yards  About 464 shipyards in China won 18.7 million deadweight
tons of orders worth $14.3 billion last year, the lowest since
2004, according to  Clarkson . That compares with contracts for
14.6 million tons worth $29.6 billion received by 88 yards in
 South Korea , the world’s second-biggest shipbuilding nation.  China had 1,647 shipyards with annual sales of more than 5
million yuan at the end of December, according to the China
Association. The sector contributed an industrial output of
790.3 billion yuan last year.  Shipbuilders are trying to offset the plunge in new vessel
prices and orders by expanding their oil-rig business. Rongsheng
announced in October its first order to make a tender barge
while rival Yangzijiang Shipbuilding Holdings Ltd. got its first
rig contract in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  