-- China to Place Largest Treasury Deposit With Banks in 7 Months
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-04T10:56:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/china-to-place-largest-treasury-deposit-with-banks-in-7-months.html
China’s central bank plans to place
100 billion  yuan  ($16 billion) of deposits with commercial
lenders in July, the largest monthly total since November, a
move UBS AG said is positive for the country’s banking system.  The  People’s Bank of China  will auction 50 billion yuan of
6-month treasury deposits at commercial banks on July 11 and
another 50 billion yuan of 3-month treasury deposits on July 18
on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, according to two separate
statements posted on the ministry’s website today.  Chinese bank stocks have traded at valuations near
historical lows after the nation’s worst credit crunch in at
least a decade spurred concern that tight liquidity will put
pressure on profit and push up bad loans. The treasury deposits
will give banks cash for credit and other purposes, said  Tao Wang , Chief China Economist at UBS in Hong Kong.  The auctions are “sizable,” Wang said. “Treasury cash is
placed with the central bank, usually. When it is placed at a
commercial bank, the liquidity is released.”  The PBOC placed 40 billion yuan of treasury deposits with
commercial lenders in each of the past three months. No earlier
deposits come due in July, according to government data.  Shares of China’s four largest state-controlled banks --
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. (601398) ,  China Construction
Bank Corp. (939) , Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. and Bank of China
Ltd. -- fell by an average 12 percent in Hong Kong last month.
The shares dropped by an average 9 percent in Shanghai.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net ;
Billy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 bchan101@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  