-- China Money Rate Drops for 10th Day, Longest Streak in 14 Months
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-04T02:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/china-money-rate-drops-for-10th-day-longest-streak-in-14-months.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
dropped for a 10th day, the longest stretch in almost 14 months,
as the central bank refrained from draining funds from the
financial system in the wake of the worst cash crunch on record.  The People’s Bank of China hadn’t conducted repurchase-agreement operations as of 9:20 a.m. in Shanghai, according to a
trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the auctions. The
PBOC has also not sold  bills  since June 20, when both the
overnight and seven-day repo rates climbed to all-time highs.  “The market is reassured that the central bank will come
to the rescue if liquidity gets tight,” said Song Qiuhong, a
bond analyst at Foshan Shunde Rural Commercial Bank Co. in
Foshan, a city in the southern province of Guangdong.  The seven-day repo  rate  fell 32 basis points, or 0.32
percentage point, to 3.91 percent as of 10:06 a.m. in Shanghai,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center. A daily fixing  averaged  6.81 percent
last month, the highest in data going back to the start of 2004,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The PBOC signaled June 25 that any liquidity support during
the cash squeeze would be focused on banks that lend to help the
economy. China may have difficulty realizing its 7.5 percent
growth target this year, 21st Century Business Herald reported
today, citing Fan Jianping, chief economist at the State
Information Center.  The one-day repurchase  rate  climbed six basis points to
3.37 percent, according to the National Interbank Funding Center.  The one-year interest-rate swap contract, the fixed cost
needed to receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, rose
one basis point to 3.82 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  --Judy Chen. Editors: Simon Harvey, Andrew Janes  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in  Shanghai  at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 