-- One-Third of China Shipyards Face Closure as Orders Slump
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-07-05T02:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/china-rongsheng-halts-trading-in-shares-after-report-on-job-cuts.html
China , the world’s biggest
shipbuilding nation, may see a third of its yards shut down in
about five years as they struggle to win orders amid a global
vessel glut, an industry group said.  The yards in peril of closure have failed to get any orders
“for a very long period of time,” Wang Jinlian, secretary
general of the China Association of National Shipbuilding
Industry, said in an interview yesterday. They may end
operations in three to five years if the “gloomy market
persists.” The nation has more than 1,600 shipyards.  China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd. (1101)   fell
 the most in almost a year in Hong Kong trading today after
saying it’s seeking financial support from the government and
its largest shareholder amid a plunge in orders and prices. The
stock of China’s biggest yard outside state control was  halted 
yesterday after the Wall Street Journal reported it recently cut
about 8,000 jobs.  “Because of the overall market, there’s no way out for the
companies; so only the strongest will survive,” Sarah Wang, a
Shanghai-based analyst at  Masterlink Securities Corp. (2856) , said.
“Life for China’s shipyards will be tougher this year as any
form of credit crunch is critical.”  Rongsheng Restructuring  More than half of the Rongsheng employees laid off were
subcontractors and the rest full-time workers, the Journal
reported July 3, citing Lei Dong, secretary to the Shanghai-based company’s president. William Li, a Rongsheng spokesman,
declined to comment on the report.  The shipbuilder had a net  loss  in the first half, it said
in today’s filing. Shareholder Zhang Zhirong agreed to provide
an interest-free 200 million yuan ($33 million) loan to the
Shanghai-based yard, it said.  Rongsheng is undergoing “workforce restructuring,” and is
“gradually downsizing production” in some areas, it said in
today’s statement without elaborating.  The shares fell as much as 16 percent to 89  Hong Kong 
cents, the most since July 30 last year, before trading at 93
Hong Kong cents as of 10:03 a.m. local time.  The order book at China’s shipbuilders fell 23 percent at
the end of May from a year earlier, according to data from the
shipbuilders’ group. Yards have reduced down-payment
requirements, with some slashing their rates to as little as 2.5
percent of contract value compared with 20 percent before 2010,
according to  UOB-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. (UOBK)   Tight Liquidity  The nation’s clampdown on excessive short-term borrowing
sent the overnight repurchase rate to a record 13.91 percent
last month, forcing at least 22 companies including China
Development Bank Corp., a backer of the shipping industry, to
cancel or delay bond sales. Economic growth in China has held
below 8 percent for the past four quarters, the first time that
has happened in at least 20 years.  “Currently financial institutions themselves may have
tight liquidity, so they are reluctant to lend money to
companies in this sector,” China Association’s Wang said. “If
they can help some good companies, there would be no problems.”  “Rongsheng’s move reflects the bad market,” said Lawrence Li, an analyst at UOB-Kay Hian in  Shanghai . “More small-to-medium sized shipyards, especially those that lack government
support, may take the same actions or even close down.”  Order Targets  Rongsheng had as many as 38,000 workers including its own
employees and contract staff at the peak of the industry boom a
few years ago, UOB-Kay Hian’s Li said. Brazil and  Greece 
accounted for more than half of Rongsheng’s 2012 revenue,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company posted a loss of 572.6 million  yuan  ($93
million) last year, after three consecutive years of profits,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It had short-term  debt 
of  19.3 billion yuan  as of the end of 2012, the data show.  The shipbuilder targets new ship and offshore orders worth
more than $2.3 billion this year, Chen said in Hong Kong in
March. The company pared about 3,000 employees last year as it
aims to return to profit this year, he said at the time.  Rongsheng’s cash conversion cycle, a gauge of days required
to convert resources into cash, more than doubled to 582 last
year from 224 in 2011, the data show. Its  shares  have fallen 15
percent this year in Hong Kong, compared with a 9.7 percent
decline for the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Ship Prices  Ten of the 14 analysts tracked by Bloomberg  recommend 
selling Rongsheng stock with the rest rating it hold. The
company raised HK$14 billion ($1.8 billion) in its initial
public offering in 2010.  Ship prices for a vessel that can carry as many as 13,500
boxes fell to $106 million in April, which was then the lowest
since  Clarkson Plc (CKN)  started compiling the figures in June 2008.
Contracts for new vessels halved to $84.7 billion in 2012,
compared with $174.7 billion in 2008, according to Clarkson.  About 464 shipyards in China won 18.7 million deadweight
tons of orders worth $14.3 billion last year, the lowest since
2004, according to Clarkson. That compares with contracts for
14.6 million tons worth $29.6 billion received by 88 yards in
 South Korea , the world’s second-biggest shipbuilding nation.  China had 1,647 shipyards with annual sales of more than 5
million yuan at the end of December, according to the China
Association. The sector contributed an industrial output of
790.3 billion yuan last year.  Shipbuilders are trying to offset the plunge in new vessel
prices and orders by expanding their oil-rig business. Rongsheng
announced in October its first order to make a tender barge
while rival  Yangzijiang Shipbuilding Holdings Ltd. (YZJ)  got its first
rig contract in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  