-- China Children Wash Feet of Retirees to Herald Elderly Care Law
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-04T05:38:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/china-children-wash-feet-of-retirees-to-herald-elderly-care-law.html
Primary-school kids in  China   washed
the feet  of retirees and government officials hung banners in
public squares to herald a new law on care for the elderly that
includes requiring adult children to visit their parents.  The revised Law for the Protection of the Rights and
Interests of the Elderly, which came into effect July 1, allows
parents to sue children who fail to visit them often enough and
requires companies to give their employees the necessary leave
to do so. It maintains a previous ban on “ill-treatment and
abandonment” of the elderly.  China’s new law takes effect as policy makers grapple with
the cost of caring for an aging population, with the number of
people 60 years or older set to double by 2053. Confucian
beliefs that had traditionally called for children to care for
parents have been eroded by a migration from farms to cities as
the economy surged and the one-child policy limited births.  “Who doesn’t wish to serve their parents, but filial piety
cannot withstand the pressures of time and money in a
competitive society,” the official Xinhua News Agency said in a
commentary published yesterday.  Xinhua on July 2 published pictures of students in Jiangsu
province bathing the feet of the elderly at a local retirement
home. The government of  Henan province  posted a  statement 
yesterday on how officials in the city of Sanmenxia hung banners
in a public square and distributed more than 1,000brochures to
promote the new law.  In the first enforcement of the legislation, a woman in the
eastern city of Wuxi was ordered by a local court on July 1 to
visit her 77-year-old mother every two months and at least three
times during major traditional holidays, Xinhua reported.  Aging Population  China’s working-age citizens age 15 to 59 fell as a share
of the population last year, and the National Committee on Aging
estimates people 60 years and older will rise to 487 million by
2053 from 185 million in 2011. The entire  U.S. population  is
projected to reach about 406 million in 2053, according to the
 U.S. Census Bureau .  The Chinese government, which passed the elderly-care law
on Dec. 28, has pledged to improve the long-term care and
benefits for senior citizens. Authorities have created an
Elderly Day that will be celebrated each year in the fall and
have said they’ll boost the number of beds in care facilities to
30 per 1,000 elderly people by 2015, from 20 now.  China will also accelerate development of standards for
functions and designs that accommodate the elderly in buildings
and public facilities, according to Xinhua.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net ;
Penny Peng in Beijing at 
 ppeng18@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  