-- Christmas Candy Stockpiled in July as Aussie Slump Looms
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-07-04T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/christmas-candy-stockpiled-in-july-as-aussie-slump-looms.html
Andy Adams has already bought his
Christmas candy. With the Australian dollar down 12 percent in
its longest losing streak since the 2008 financial crisis, he’s
stocking his food store early in anticipation of a further fall.  “We basically doubled the size of our last order. We had
to,” said Adams, whose British Sweets and Treats store in the
Sydney suburb of Bondi caters to U.K., Irish and American expats
craving Maynards Wine Gums, Barry’s Tea, and Baby Ruth bars.
“We know the dollar’s going to creep down, so we’re trying to
grab it now at a reasonable price.”  The weakening Aussie, which on July 3 fell below 91 U.S.
cents for the first time since 2010, will push up import costs
about five percent even if it ends the year at 96 U.S. cents,
according to Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit.
Retailers must choose whether to swallow higher prices and lose
profits, or try to pass them on to customers and risk sales amid
weak consumer confidence, the bank said.  “A fall in the dollar can make it pretty expensive” for
retailers, Tim Samway, managing director of Hyperion Asset
Management Ltd., said by phone from Sydney. “The effect is
reasonably predictable: import costs go through the roof.”  Harvey Norman Holdings Ltd. (HVN)  is counting on customers
accepting higher costs. The country’s largest electrical-goods
retailer will increase prices from Aug. 1 and is purchasing as
much stock as it has warehouse space to store, according to
chairman  Gerry Harvey .  Irish Soda  “We’re spending A$200 million ($183 million) to beat the
price rises,” Harvey said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“We’d buy more if we had somewhere to put it.”  At British Sweets and Treats, Adams is also betting that
homesick foreigners will pay more. Reese’s Peanut Butter Cups,
made by the  Hershey Co. (HSY) , will have to rise 50 Australian cents
to about A$3 over the next six months, he said, versus the  $1.10
cost of a two-cup pack  to U.S. shoppers on Amazon.com.  Adams must now pay his supplier about A$2 per can of Club
Orange, a popular Irish soft drink made by  Britvic Plc (BVIC) , an
increase of a third. So he has bumped his retail price up to A$3
from A$2.50.  “The stuff flies off the shelf anyway,” he said. “To be
honest, I think I’m selling more.”  Still, with retail sales growing less than expected in May
amid the biggest slump in  consumer confidence  in 17 months,
others doubt the willingness of Australians to dig deeper.  Aussie Hedge  Price rises “may curb  consumer spending  amid already weak
consumer sentiment,” Moody’s Investors Service said in a July 1
comment. The dollar’s fall is a credit negative for both
retailers and mall owners such as  Westfield Group (WDC)  and  GPT Group (GPT) ,
analyst Saranga Ranasinghe wrote.  “It’s very, very difficult to put up prices, so in the
short term they’ll absorb it into their margins,” George
Svinos, lead Australian partner for retail at  KPMG , said by
phone from  Melbourne . “There’s always short-term pain” when
the local currency depreciates against the U.S. dollar, he said.  “The customer would not accept, and we would do our best
to buffer, any price increases,” said Bernie Brookes, chief
executive officer of  Australia ’s largest listed department store
company,  Myer Holdings Ltd. (MYR)   Myer has currency hedges in place for the next 12 months
that allow the company to make purchases as if the Australian
dollar were still stronger than the greenback, he said on a May
22 media call. After that, he expects wholesale prices to
increase if the Aussie keeps falling.  Profitable Period  After rising to $1.0545 as recently as April, the currency
traded as low as 90.37 U.S. cents July 3. That makes it the
second-worst performer this year, after the Japanese yen, among
10 developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Australian stores have boosted earnings in recent years as
the stronger currency made imports cheaper, Macquarie Group Ltd.
said in a note to clients in January. Gross profit margins at
clothing and apparel retailers increased 9 percent between 2006
and 2011 as the Australian dollar gained 34 percent against the
greenback, Macquarie said. Goods made in  China  are typically
paid for in U.S. dollars, the note said.  Imports of consumer products such as electronics, apparel,
toys and books increased 17 percent over the past five years, to
A$39.7 billion in the year ended March 2013,  government data 
show. About 40 percent of Australian retail spending goes to
imports, the  country’s central bank  says.  Petrol Pain  Some retailers will benefit as shoppers start buying more
at home rather than from overseas Web stores or on foreign
holidays, Paul Zahra, chief executive officer of David Jones
Ltd., said on a May 27 media call.  Still, the falling dollar is already squeezing consumers,
according to Saul Eslake, Australian chief economist at Merrill
Lynch. Gasoline, which responds quickly to currency moves, has
risen 12 percent to  A$1.4590 a liter  in Sydney over the past two
months.  “Higher petrol prices are a bit like higher  interest
rates ,” Eslake said by phone. When consumers “spend more on
petrol, they have less to spend on discretionary items.”  That will make it harder for stores to charge more for
their wares, according to Tim Hannon, chief investment officer
of Evergreen Capital Partners Ltd.  “Prices should rise. The question is whether the
environment allows them to pass that on,” he said. “The
Australian dollar is just another headwind for the retail sector
in the short term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  