-- Continental AG Rises as Car Market Declines Seen Slowing
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-07-04T13:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/continental-ag-rises-as-car-market-declines-seen-slowing.html
Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-biggest car-parts maker, rose to the highest in almost 21 years
as forecasts that the region’s car and truck markets will stop
declining raised investor confidence in the industry.  Continental gained as much as 3.1 percent to 107.95 euros,
the highest level since at least Aug. 18, 1992, based on closing
prices. The stock was trading up 2.8 percent at 2:56 p.m. in
 Frankfurt . Volume was 59 percent of the three-month daily
average. The shares have increased 23 percent this year, valuing
the company 21.5 billion euros ($27.7 million).  The European truck market, which contracted 12 percent in
the first five months of 2013, seems to be bottoming out,
 Daimler AG (DAI)  truck-unit chief  Wolfgang Bernhard  said on July 1.
Matthias Wissmann, president of the VDA carmakers association in
Germany, reiterated a day later that annual auto sales in the
country will linger at about 3 million vehicles in coming years
after falling to as low as 2.9 million deliveries in 2013.  “We see production volumes in Europe bottoming out and
still good growth in the U.S.,”  Marc-Rene Tonn , a Hamburg-based
analyst at M.M. Warburg & Co., said by phone. “This gives
confidence that sales and earnings will improve in the second
half of the year.” Declining prices for synthetic and natural
rubber are likely to continue helping profit at Continental’s
tire division, he said.  The manufacturer, which ranks second in Europe’s car-parts
industry to closely held Robert Bosch GmbH, is targeting a sales
increase of about 5 percent this year to more than 34 billion
euros and predicting an operating-profit margin exceeding 10
percent of revenue. The Hanover, Germany-based company will buy
back a high-yield bond as of July 15 to reduce interest costs.  “Continental benefits from the rising demand for high-tech
products such as staying in highway lanes or assisted parking,”
said  Juergen Pieper , a Frankfurt-based analyst with Bankhaus
Metzler. “They are dominating the scene together with Bosch
and, as investors can’t buy into Bosch, they are focusing on the
DAX-listed Continental shares.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  