-- Copper Declines as China Concern Clouds the Outlook for Demand
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-07-04T16:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/copper-declines-as-china-concern-clouds-the-outlook-for-demand.html
Copper fell in London on lingering
concern demand will weaken as the economy slows in  China , the
world’s biggest consumer of the metal.  China may have difficulty realizing a 7.5 percent growth
target for this year, 21st Century Business Herald reported
today. The economy may expand less than 7 percent in 2013, Bank
of Singapore said this week. Growth will slow at least through
2015, according to forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. Some traders
sold copper to capitalize on gains, according to Barclays Plc.  “People are bearish on China,” Gayle Berry, an analyst at
Barclays in London, said by phone. “They see base metals as a
bearish China trade. Whenever you get any rallies, even any
strength in metals prices, you’re going to see that being sold
into. Copper has experienced some of that.”  Copper for delivery in three months slid 0.6 percent to
$6,950 a metric ton by the close on the  London  Metal Exchange
after reaching a two-week high yesterday. Copper for September
delivery fell 0.7 percent to $3.152 a pound on the Comex in New
York, where floor trading was shut today for Independence Day.  Employers in the U.S., the second-biggest copper user,
hired 165,000 workers last month, a Bloomberg survey of
economists showed before government figures due tomorrow. The
jobless rate may drop to 7.5 percent from 7.6 percent. Progress
in the labor market is among criteria weighed by the Federal
Reserve in deciding whether to reduce its monthly bond-buying.  “U.S. jobs data are worryingly looming over the market,”
Michael Turek, a senior director at Newedge Group SA in New
York, said by e-mail today.  Copper for immediate delivery on the LME settled at a
$4.50-a-ton premium to the three-month contract after swinging
between a premium and a discount. Traders who made bets on
falling prices had difficulty buying metal to offset their
positions, according to Barclays.  Aluminum rose in London and zinc was unchanged. Nickel, tin
and lead fell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  