-- Cordy Gains Vacuuming Up Alberta After Flood
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-07-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/cordy-gains-vacuuming-up-alberta-after-flood.html
Cordy Oilfield Services Inc. (CKK)  and
 Aecon Group Inc. (ARE)  are among companies poised to benefit from
rebuilding in Alberta after record flooding caused an estimated
C$5 billion ($4.76 billion) in damage.  Business is up 60 percent in the environmental division of
Calgary-based Cordy since floods inundated southern Alberta on
June 20, said Lindsay Williamson, general manager of the unit.
Cordy sent 85 trucks to suck up sewage in Calgary including from
the Scotiabank Saddledome where flood damage forced the
cancellation of a show by the rock band Kiss during the  Calgary
Stampede , a festival that starts tomorrow.  “There are a lot of people like myself who benefit from
the work side, but also take the hit on the personal side
because I’m one of the victims,” Williamson said in a phone
interview on June 27. Cordy will have drained about 450
buildings once it’s finished in High River, the town hardest hit
by the flood where several inches of water entered Williamson’s
home, he said.  Alberta ’s economic growth is forecast to expand by 3
percent in 2013 instead of 2.5 percent due to the rebuilding
from as much as C$5 billion in damage, according to Toronto-Dominion Bank economists led by Jonathan Bendiner.  Sales of flooring and drywall are already surging in
Alberta at  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , the company said. The upside for
builders including Aecon,  Churchill Corp. (CUQ)  and  PetroWest Corp. (PRW) 
will be spread over six to nine months, said Maxim Sytchev,
analyst at Dundee Securities Corp.  Historic Rise  “Whether it’s roads, bridges, a lot of stuff will have to
be rebuilt,” Sytchev said in a phone interview from Toronto on
June 28.  Communities across southern Alberta are draining water from
buildings and starting repairs after more than a foot (30
centimeters) of rain fell in two days last month, forcing
evacuations across the region, including about 75,000 of
Calgary’s 1.1 million residents. Four people in the province
died due to the flood, police said.  The provincial government said the floods were the worst in
the Alberta’s history, declaring a state of local emergency in
25 communities. Albert Premier Alison Redford announced C$1
billion in initial flood relief and said plans to balance the
provincial budget next year would be delayed. The province is
“not focusing on” meeting deficit-reduction targets, Finance
Minister Doug Horner said in a June 26 phone interview.  Sandy Example  Cordy has dropped 27 percent this year, compared with a 2.3
percent decline for the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index,
according to figures compiled by Bloomberg. Aecon has risen 4.9
percent over the period, while Churchill has declined 4.1
percent.  The “lion’s share” of damaged assets will be probably be
replaced, with work beginning in the second half of 2013, TD
economists led by Bendiner said in a June 26 note.  Following the floods, Home Depot stores in Alberta brought
in at least 45 truckloads of emergency supplies including wet-vacs, pumps and generators, according to Frank Logie, manager
for Home Depot  Canada  in Alberta.  Home Depot consulted with U.S. stores that handled rising
demand after  Hurricane Sandy  slammed into the northeast U.S.
shore, Logie said in a phone interview from Calgary on July 2.
Sandy was the deadliest non-Southern U.S. hurricane since Agnes
in 1972, according to the U.S.  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration .  “We got a really good indication of where the business
grew and how we could anticipate the needs of Calgarians,”
Logie said.  ‘Too Early’  Cleanup from Sandy brought business to companies including
 Clean Harbors Inc. (CLH)  of Norwell,  Massachusetts . Storm cleanup
contributed $12 million in revenue to the environmental
remediation and waste management firm in the fourth quarter,
helping to boost sales 2.4 percent during the period, James Rutledge, the company’s president, said on Feb. 20, according to
a transcript of the fourth quarter earnings call. Rutledge
didn’t immediately return a phone message yesterday.  Aecon, based in Toronto, is exposed to Alberta, deriving 32
percent of its revenue from the province, according to Dundee’s
Sytchev, as well as Calgary-based Churchill, a construction
company that gets 58 percent of sales from the province.
PetroWest, a provider of civil construction services based in
Grand Prairie, Alberta, may also be poised to gain from
additional work, he said.  Stampede Reconstruction  “It’s probably too early days to figure out what
opportunities there are for Aecon in the rebuilding efforts,”
Vince Borg, a company spokesman, said in a July 2 phone
interview from Toronto.  Churchill, involved in pumping water, has offered equipment
to reconstruct the Stampede grounds and will probably install
electrical transformers, though some of the work is being done
for free, Andrew Apedoe, a spokesman for Churchill, said in a
phone interview on July 2. “We, right now, do not look at this
as an opportunity to profit,” Apedoe said.  Ian Hogg, vice-president of business development and
corporate affairs at Calgary-based PetroWest, didn’t return a
phone message seeking comment.  Bank of Montreal is also looking to increase its 2014
economic forecast for Alberta due to rebuilding. However it’s
cutting annual growth by 0.7 percent this year due to losses
from the flooding,  Robert Kavcic , senior economist, said in an
e-mail on June 26. The flood probably knocked out as much as 0.3
percent of Canada’s gross domestic product in June, he said.  Spending Slumps  The natural disaster had a profound economic impact on
Calgary merchants as spending dropped 46 percent during the
flood week at businesses in the evacuation zones, Moneris
Solutions Corp., which provides electronic payment services,
said yesterday in a statement. Spending in areas not evacuated
also fell 22 percent in the same period, Moneris said.  Businesses seeking to rebuild may also face labor shortages
as residents and companies compete for tradespeople, said Tang
Lee, a professor of architecture at the University of Calgary
who has studied natural disasters. The tab to repair a single
basement can range from C$5,000 to C$100,000, Lee said.  “Typically whenever there’s a flood it’s quite
devastating,” Lee said in a July 2 phone interview, predicting
a protracted period of reconstruction. “It’s not several
months, it may be a year or two or more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  