-- Czech Sales Unexpectedly Improving Damp Koruna Intervention Case
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-07-04T11:36:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/czech-sales-unexpectedly-improving-damp-koruna-intervention-case.html
Czech  retail sales  unexpectedly rose
in May, adding to signs the economy is recovering from recession
and damping the case for the central bank to weaken the koruna.  Sales expanded 1.2 percent from a year earlier after a 1.5
percent increase in April, the Prague-based statistics office
said today. That compares with the median estimate of 12
economists surveyed by Bloomberg for a 0.8 percent contraction.  The Czech economy shrank for six quarters through March,
its longest contraction on record, as the government, companies
and households cut spending, prompting the central bank to cut
its main  interest rate  three times last year to 0.05 percent and
debate whether to sell the koruna in the market. Data released
July 1 showed Czech manufacturing improved for a third month.  “The retail figures for May are a pleasant surprise and,
combined with the similar result for April, raise expectations
that the Czech economy returned to quarterly growth in the
second quarter,”  Pavel Sobisek , chief economist at  UniCredit
SpA (UCG) ’s Prague-based unit, wrote today in a report to clients.
“If positive trends in consumer demand continue, this would
signal less need to artificially weaken the koruna.”  The Czech currency has depreciated 3.7 percent this year
and 5.8 percent since Sept. 17, a day before the central bank
signaled its readiness to sell the koruna for the first time in
more than a decade. It gained 0.1 percent today to 26.042 per
euro by 12:46 p.m. in Prague.  While disinflationary trends in the economy have increased
the probability of interventions, rate setters haven’t yet
reached agreement to weaken the currency, Governor Miroslav Singer said June 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  