-- Deutsche Bank Needs Capital Amid Higher Leverage, JPMorgan Says
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-07-04T12:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/deutsche-bank-needs-capital-amid-higher-leverage-jpmorgan-says.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  may face a capital
shortfall of 12.3 billion euros ($16 billion) under a proposal
on leverage by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The Basel proposal, which is designed to include assets
that are off banks’ books, would lead to a 33 percent average
increase in the balance sheet among the global investment banks
tracked by JPMorgan, analysts led by Kian Abouhossein in  London 
wrote in a report to clients today.  Deutsche Bank “needs to raise capital in our view” or
reduce assets by 409 billion euros to reach the 3 percent
leverage ratio target set by Basel, the analysts said.  Christian Streckert, a spokesman for Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank, said the company generally doesn’t comment on
analyst research notes.  Global regulators are increasingly looking at leverage, in
addition to measures based on risk weightings assigned to
different assets, to gauge banks’ financial strength. Their
focus intensified after some banks improved  capital ratios 
following the financial crisis by altering internal models or
cutting risk-weighted assets without correspondingly shrinking
their balance sheets.  By the same Basel measure,  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s third-biggest lender by market value, will have a leverage ratio of
3.5 percent by 2015, the analysts estimated. Still, the bank may
also need to raise capital to meet the U.K.’s Prudential
Regulation Authority’s leverage requirements, according to
JPMorgan. The bank may need 7 billion pounds ($10.6 billion), or
a 240 billion-pound asset reduction, the analysts said.  Chief Executive Officer  Antony Jenkins  said on June 28 the
London-based bank may cut lending if the PRA forces the lender
to speed up plans to increase its leverage to 3 percent by 2015.
A spokesman declined to comment further today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  