-- Diageo Takes Control of United Spirits to Tap Indian Market
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-07-05T09:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/diageo-acquires-united-spirits-stake-to-control-indian-distiller.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s biggest
distiller, gained control of  United Spirits Ltd. (UNSP)  after
completing the final stage of a transaction to acquire a stake
in the Indian maker of Bagpiper whiskey.  The London-based company bought a 14.98 percent stake from
a firm owned by Vijay Mallya for 31.3 billion rupees ($521
million), Diageo said in a statement yesterday. That gives it a
25.02 percent holding at a total cost of 52.4 billion rupees,
which combined with voting and other governance arrangements
with Mallya is enough for control.  The stake in United Spirits will give the U.K. company the
leading position in the world’s largest whiskey market.
Distillers such as Diageo and  Pernod Ricard SA (RI)  are seeking to
expand in  emerging markets  where booming economic growth is
creating a burgeoning middle class with more disposable income.
Diageo will seek to push Johnnie Walker whiskey in  India .  “Diageo have what they wanted, which was effective
management control,” said  Martin Deboo , an analyst at Investec
Plc. “It’s a little messy as they are still a minority
shareholder. However, once the dust has settled on the terms, we
expect the market to focus on the transformational impact:
Diageo get to plant their flag in one of the biggest potential
markets for western spirits alongside  China .”  Past Talks  Diageo rose 1 percent to 1,988 pence at 9:46 a.m. in
 London . United Spirits  shares  slid 1.1 percent to 2,528.9 rupees
in Indian trading, trimming their gain this week to 17 percent.  Diageo, which also sells Smirnoff vodka, Captain Morgan rum
and Guinness stout, had held talks with Mallya on a deal before.
Discussions collapsed after United Spirits deemed a previous
offer too low in 2009.  “Through this acquisition we have transformed Diageo’s
position in India,” Diageo Chief Executive Officer Ivan Menezes
said in the statement. “We will now begin the work to identify
and capture the significant growth opportunities within this
attractive market.”  Diageo faced risks completing the purchase of Indian tycoon
Mallya’s shares, which were offered, along with other assets, as
collateral for his money-losing  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  It had
sought to buy a further 2.4 percent in the deal, announced in
November, though some of the shares were pledged as security for
loans to companies owned by Mallya. If released from security
interest, Diageo may buy them later, it said.  Management Changes  Diageo initially fell short of gaining a controlling stake
in United Spirits after a mandatory open bid for shares at a
price of 1,440 rupees a share drew little interest. The price
was the same as accepted by Mallya, who has been seeking to cut
Kingfisher’s debt after five years of losses.  Mallya will continue as chairman of United Spirits, with
Ashok Capoor as CEO and P.A. Murali as chief financial officer.
Mallya-controlled companies, which have  voting rights  over 11.1
percent of United Spirits’ shares, will vote with Diageo for
four years or until Diageo gets a majority stake.  Diageo and Mallya may explore opportunities to extend their
relationship into other emerging markets in Africa and  Asia 
through a further joint venture, according to the statement.  The United Spirits deal will be funded by debt and cash
resources and will add to Diageo’s earnings by its second year,
the company said. It was at a multiple of 18 times United
Spirits’ earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and
amortization for the year ended March 2013, Diageo said.  The deal was “done at a sensible entry multiple,” Deboo
at Investec said. “The fact that United Spirits will be fully
consolidated means that it should be materially accretive to the
closely-watched metrics of organic sales and profit growth.”  JM Financial Ltd. (JM)  and Bank of America Merrill Lynch advised
Diageo on the deal. Ambit Corporate Finance acted on behalf of
United Spirits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  