-- Diageo Buys United Spirits Stake to Control Indian Distiller
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s   a n d   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-07-04T16:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/diageo-buys-united-spirits-stake-to-control-indian-distiller-1-.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s biggest
distiller, gained control of  United Spirits Ltd. (UNSP)  after
completing the final stage of a transaction to acquire a stake
in the Indian maker of Bagpiper whiskey.  The London-based company bought a 14.98 percent stake from
a firm owned by Vijay Mallya for 31.3 billion rupees ($521
million), Diageo said today in a statement. That gives it a
holding of 25.02 percent, which combined with voting and other
governance arrangements with Mallya is enough for control.  The stake in United Spirits will give the U.K. company the
leading position in the world’s largest whiskey market.
Distillers such as Diageo and  Pernod Ricard SA (RI)  are seeking to
expand in  emerging markets  where booming economic growth is
creating a burgeoning middle class with more disposable income.
Diageo will seek to push Johnnie Walker whisky in  India .  Diageo, which also sells Smirnoff vodka, Captain Morgan rum
and Guinness stout, had held talks with Mallya on a deal before.
Discussions collapsed after United Spirits deemed a previous
offer too low in 2009.  “Through this acquisition we have transformed Diageo’s
position in India,” Diageo Chief Executive Officer Ivan Menezes
said in the statement. “We will now begin the work to identify
and capture the significant growth opportunities within this
attractive market.”  Shares Gain  Diageo rose 3.7 percent to 1,967.5 pence at the close of
trading in London. United Spirits  shares  gained 1.7 percent to
2,557.45 rupees in Indian trading, which ended before the
announcement was made.  Diageo had faced risks completing the purchase of Indian
tycoon Mallya’s shares, which were offered, along with other
assets, as collateral for his money-losing  Kingfisher Airlines
Ltd. (KAIR)  It had sought to buy a further 2.4 percent in the deal,
announced in November, though some of the shares were pledged as
security for loans to companies owned by Mallya. If released
from security interest, Diageo may buy them later, it said.  Diageo had initially fallen short of gaining a controlling
stake in United Spirits after a mandatory open bid for shares at
a price of 1,440 rupees a share drew little interest. The price
was the same as accepted by Mallya, who has been seeking to cut
Kingfisher Airline’s debt after five years of losses.  Mallya will continue as chairman of United Spirits, with
Ashok Capoor as CEO and P.A. Murali as chief financial officer.
Mallya-controlled companies, which have  voting rights  over 11.1
percent of United Spirits’ shares, will vote with Diageo for
four years or until Diageo gets a majority stake.  Earnings Boost  Diageo and Mallya may explore opportunities to extend their
relationship into other emerging markets in Africa and Asia
through a further joint venture, according to the statement.  The United Spirits deal will be funded by debt and cash
resources and will add to Diageo’s earnings by its second year,
the company said today.  JM Financial Ltd. (JM)  and Bank of America Merrill Lynch advised
Diageo on the deal. Ambit Corporate Finance acted on behalf of
United Spirits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in  London  at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  