-- Draghi Says ECB Rate to Stay Low for ‘Extended Period’
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-07-04T14:56:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/draghi-says-ecb-rate-to-stay-low-for-extended-period-.html
President  Mario Draghi  said the
 European Central Bank  expects to keep  interest rates  low for an
“extended period” as he tries to restrain market borrowing
costs, in a new departure for an institution averse to setting
policy in advance.  With ECB officials today leaving their  main refinancing
rate  at 0.5 percent, Draghi fleshed out their outlook for
monetary policy after investors pushed up long-term bond yields,
threatening the region’s economic recovery. The statement came
on the same day that the  Bank of England  also tried to manage
investor expectations in  Mark Carney ’s first week as governor.  “The Governing Council expects the key ECB interest rates
to remain at present or lower levels for an extended period of
time,” Draghi said at a press conference in  Frankfurt . “What
the Governing Council did today was to inject a downward bias in
interest rates for the foreseeable future. Our exit is very
distant.”  Stocks and bonds rose, while the euro fell after the
comments. The remarks followed a surge in  Portugal ’s 10-year
bond yield above 8 percent for the first time since November and
a signal from the  Federal Reserve  that it may soon pull back
monetary stimulus.  Unanimous Decision  “This is as dovish as the ECB can get without actually
acting,” said  Christoph Rieger , head of fixed-rate strategy at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “The new ECB stance should give
investors comfort that the upside to yields is limited at
current levels.”  The ECB chose words over deeds after an “extensive
discussion” about cutting interest rates, and the support for
the new language was unanimous, according to Draghi. He said the
bank kept an open mind on whether to cut the deposit rate below
zero.  “The Governing Council had all options on the table this
month and will keep them there in case things worsen again,”
said  Christian Schulz , senior economist at Berenberg Bank in
 London . “This time, they decided against another rate cut and
decided to stage a mini revolution by introducing forward
guidance instead.”  The Stoxx 600 Index was 2.4 percent higher at 292.24 at
4:18 p.m. in Frankfurt. The euro declined to as low as $1.2883
from $1.2985 before the press conference. The yield on
Portugal’s 10-year bond yield, which yesterday climbed as high
as 8.11 percent, slid to as low as 7.11 percent.  Forward Guidance  By using so-called forward guidance, Draghi’s aim is to
persuade investors that the ECB has no plans to end its easy
policy stance so they in turn will keep longer-term rates low,
paving the way for consumers and households to borrow cheaply
and bolster economic activity. Historically, Draghi and
predecessor  Jean-Claude Trichet  have said that the ECB “never
precommits” to any future monetary policy.  Draghi said the reason for taking what he called an
“unprecedented” step was the ECB’s expectation that the
subdued outlook for inflation will extend into the medium-term
amid broad-based weakness in the 17-nation euro-area economy.  “The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro
area continue to be on the downside,” Draghi said, pointing to
recent tightening in global financial conditions as one threat.  While all 23 members of the council agreed on the new
strategy, Draghi declined to specify a time frame for the
“extended period” and said several forms of guidance were
debated.  Two Pillars  The ECB hasn’t built formal frameworks or set specific
economic targets for when policy makers assess the course of
rates, according to an official familiar with the central bank’s
deliberations. Instead, ECB officials will rely on the central
bank’s traditional “two pillar” approach, a setup that looks
at both  money supply  and a range of economic indicators, the
person said.  At the same time, Carney and colleagues in the U.K.
signaled they’ll keep their key rate at 0.5 percent for longer
than investors expected. The “implied rise in the expected
future path of  bank rate  was not warranted by the recent
developments in the domestic economy,” the BOE said in a
statement.  Rising Confidence  While euro-area unemployment rose to a record 12.2 percent
in May, other indicators have signaled the economy may recover
under current monetary policy given time. Confidence in the
currency bloc jumped to the highest level in more than a year in
June, a gauge of manufacturing and services output improved for
third month and industrial output rose for a third month in
April.  Still, financial conditions have recently tightened across
the continent, posing a danger to the recovery. Bond yields in
Portugal spiraled this week after the resignation of two of the
nation’s ministers sparked concern austerity fatigue will derail
fiscal reforms. Yields also climbed in Italy and  Spain  while
declining in  Germany , extending increases which accelerated
after Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled his Fed may soon start
curtailing its $85 billion of monthly asset-purchases.  With interest rates at or near rock-bottom levels, central
banks have embraced more open communications about their
thinking in the hope markets will respond. In March, Draghi said
for the first time that policy “will remain accommodative for
as long as needed.”  The ECB’s commitment today is nevertheless not as clear as
those made elsewhere. As governor of the  Bank of Canada , Carney
pledged in April 2009 to keep its key rate at a record low until
mid-2010. In December, Bernanke’s Fed introduced unemployment
and inflation thresholds to govern when it could raise its
benchmark from near zero.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net  
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  