-- Draghi’s Introductory Remarks at ECB Press Conference: Text
-- B y
-- 2013-07-04T12:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/draghi-s-introductory-remarks-at-ecb-press-conference-text.html
The following is a reformatted
version of the introductory remarks of European Central Bank
President Mario Draghi at a press conference in  Frankfurt  today.  ECB officials left the main refinancing rate at 0.5 percent
after reducing it by a quarter point in May. The decision was
predicted by 61 of 62 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Mario Draghi, President of the ECB,
Vitor Constancio, Vice-President of the ECB,
Frankfurt am Main, 4 July 2013  Ladies and gentlemen, the Vice-President and I are very pleased
to welcome you to our press conference. We will now report on
the outcome of today’s meeting of the Governing Council, which
was also attended by the Commission Vice-President, Mr. Rehn.  Based on our regular economic and monetary analyses, we decided
to keep the key ECB interest rates unchanged. Incoming
information has confirmed our previous assessment. Underlying
price pressures in the euro area are expected to remain subdued
over the medium term. In keeping with this picture, monetary
and, in particular, credit dynamics remain subdued. Inflation
expectations for the euro area continue to be firmly anchored in
line with our aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but
close to, 2% over the medium term. At the same time, recent
confidence indicators based on survey data have shown some
further improvement from low levels. Our monetary policy stance
is geared towards maintaining the degree of monetary
accommodation warranted by the outlook for price stability and
promoting stable money market conditions. It thereby provides
support to a recovery in economic activity later in the year and
in 2014.  Looking ahead, our monetary policy stance will remain
accommodative for as long as necessary. The Governing Council
expects the key ECB interest rates to remain at present or lower
levels for an extended period of time. This expectation is based
on the overall subdued outlook for inflation extending into the
medium term, given the broad-based weakness in the real economy
and subdued monetary dynamics. In the period ahead, we will
monitor all incoming information on economic and monetary
developments and assess any impact on the outlook for price
stability.  Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail, starting
with the economic analysis. Real GDP declined by 0.3% in the
first quarter of 2013, following a contraction of 0.6% in the
last quarter of 2012. At the same time, labour market conditions
remain weak. Recent developments in cyclical indicators,
particularly those based on survey data, indicate some further
improvement from low levels. Looking ahead to later in the year
and to 2014, euro area export growth should benefit from a
gradual recovery in global demand, while domestic demand should
be supported by the accommodative monetary policy stance as well
as the recent gains in real income owing to generally lower
inflation. Furthermore, notwithstanding recent developments, the
overall improvements in financial markets seen since last summer
should work their way through to the real economy, as should the
progress made in fiscal consolidation. This being said, the
remaining necessary balance sheet adjustments in the public and
private sectors will continue to weigh on economic activity.  Overall, euro area economic activity should stabilise and
recover in the course of the year, albeit at a subdued pace.  The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area
continue to be on the downside. The recent tightening of global
money and financial market conditions and related uncertainties
may have the potential to negatively affect economic conditions.
Other downside risks include the possibility of weaker than
expected domestic and global demand and slow or insufficient
implementation of structural reforms in euro area countries.  As stated in previous months, annual inflation rates are
expected to be subject to some volatility throughout the year
owing particularly to base effects. According to Eurostat’s
flash estimate, euro area annual HICP inflation was 1.6% in June
2013, up from 1.4% in May. This increase reflected an upward
base effect relating to energy price developments twelve months
earlier. However, underlying price pressures are expected to
remain subdued over the medium term, reflecting the broad-based
weakness in aggregate demand and the modest pace of the
recovery. Medium-term inflation expectations remain firmly
anchored in line with price stability.  The risks to the outlook for price developments are expected to
be still broadly balanced over the medium term, with upside
risks relating to stronger than expected increases in
administered prices and indirect taxes, as well as higher
commodity prices, and downside risks stemming from weaker than
expected economic activity.  Turning to the monetary analysis, recent data confirm the
subdued monetary and, in particular, credit dynamics. Annual
growth in broad money (M3) decreased in May to 2.9%, from 3.2%
in April. Moreover, annual growth in M1 decreased to 8.4% in
May, from 8.7% in April. The annual rate of change of loans to
the private sector remained negative. While the annual growth
rate of loans to households (adjusted for loan sales and
securitisation) remained at 0.3% in May, broadly unchanged since
the turn of the year, the annual rate of change of loans to non-financial corporations (adjusted for loan sales and
securitisation) weakened further to -2.1% in May, from -1.9% in
April. As in April, strong monthly net redemptions in May were
concentrated in short-term loans, possibly reflecting reduced
demand for working capital against the background of weak order
books in early spring. More generally, weak loan dynamics
continue to reflect primarily the current stage of the business
cycle, heightened credit risk and the ongoing adjustment of
financial and non-financial sector balance sheets.  Since the summer of 2012 substantial progress has been made in
improving the funding situation of banks and, in particular, in
strengthening the domestic deposit base in a number of stressed
countries. This has contributed to reducing reliance on
Eurosystem funding, as reflected in the ongoing repayments of
the three-year longer-term refinancing operations (LTROs). In
order to ensure an adequate transmission of monetary policy to
the financing conditions in euro area countries, it is essential
that the fragmentation of euro area credit markets continues to
decline further and that the resilience of banks is strengthened
where needed. Further decisive steps for establishing a Banking
Union will help to accomplish this objective. In particular, the
future Single Supervisory Mechanism and a Single Resolution
Mechanism are crucial elements for moving towards re-integrating
the banking system and therefore require swift implementation.
To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with price stability over the
medium term. A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.  With regard to other economic policies, the Governing Council
notes the initiatives taken by the European Council of 27-28
June 2013 in the areas of youth unemployment, investment and
financing of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as the
European Council’s endorsement of the country-specific
recommendations of the 2013 European semester. The Governing
Council stresses that implementation of these recommendations is
essential to contribute to a sustainable recovery in the euro
area.  Moreover, the new European governance framework for fiscal and
economic policies should be applied in a steadfast manner and
much more determined efforts should be pursued to carry forward
structural reforms to foster growth and employment. In this
respect, the Governing Council deems it particularly important
to target competitiveness and adjustment capacities in labour
and product markets. Finally, the Governing Council welcomes the
setting-out of a number of steps towards the completion of the
Banking Union as moves in the right direction, but also urges
that they be implemented swiftly.  We are now at your disposal for questions 