-- Draghi Says Monetary Stance Accommodative as Long as Needed
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-07-04T13:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/draghi-says-monetary-stance-accommodative-as-long-as-necessary.html
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi comments on interest rates, inflation, and the economy.  He made the remarks at a press conference in  Frankfurt 
today after ECB policy makers left the benchmark interest rate
at a record low of 0.50 percent.  On monetary policy stance:  “Looking ahead, our monetary policy stance will remain as
accommodative for as long as necessary. The Governing Council
expects the key ECB interest rates to remain at present or lower
levels for an extended period of time. This expectation is based
on the overall subdued outlook for inflation extending into the
medium term given the broad-based weakness in the real economy
and subdued monetary dynamics.”  On forward guidance:  “The Governing Council took the unprecedented step to give
forward guidance in a more explicit way than it did in the
past.”  “The Governing Council was unanimous on this
formulation.”  “What the Governing Council did today was to inject a
downward bias in interest rates for the foreseeable future.”  “All in all, we said our exit is very distant.”  On the possibility of an interest rate cut:  “We had an extensive discussion about a possible interest
rate cut.”  On the economic analysis:  “The remaining necessary balance sheet adjustments in
public and private sectors will continue to weigh on economic
activity.”  “Overall, euro area economic activity should stabilize and
recover in the course of the year, albeit at a subdued pace.”  “The risks surrounding the outlook for euro area continue
to be on the downside.”  “Other downside risks include the possibility of weaker
than expected domestic and global demand and slow or
insufficient implementation of structural reforms in euro area
countries.”  “The economy is still going down but it’s going down at a
slower pace.”  On the monetary analysis:  “Recent data confirm the subdued monetary and, in
particular, credit dynamics.”  On price developments:  “Underlying price pressures in the euro area are expected
to remain subdued in the medium term.”  “Annual inflation rates are expected to be subject to
volatility.”  “Medium term inflation expectations remain firmly anchored
in line with price stability.”  On ECB measures:  “Looking ahead our monetary policy stance will remain
accommodative for as long as necessary.”  “In the period ahead we will monitor all incoming
information on economic and monetary developments and assess any
impact on the outlook for price stability.”  On bank lending:  “The annual rate of loans to the private sector remained
negative.”  “The annual rate of loans to non-financial corporations
weakened further.”  “There was strong net redemptions in short-term loans.
This could reflect reduced demand for working capital against
the background of weak order books in early spring. More
generally, weak loan dynamics continue to reflect primarily the
current stage of the business cycle, heightened credit risk and
the ongoing adjustment of financial and non-financial sector
balance sheets.”  “In order to ensure adequate transmission of monetary
policy to the financing conditions in euro area countries, it is
essential that the fragmentation of euro area credit markets
continues to decline further and that the resilience of banks is
strengthened where needed.”  On banking supervision:  “The future Single Supervisory Mechanism and a Single
Resolution Mechanism are crucial elements for moving towards re-integrating the banking system and therefore require swift
implementation.  ‘‘On backstops, I’ve said several times we don’t want to
repeat the mistakes of the past.”  “Some people think that as soon as there is a shortfall in
capital in the banking system that immediately these backstops
would be used. That’s not the case.”  On the OMT:  “The OMT is ready to be active, it’s there. The conditions
are known and it’s as effective a backstop as ever.”  “The OMT was not really addressed to substitute government
action. It was meant to address tail risks in the euro area.”  “But let’s look at the facts. The OMT has produced
universally acknowledged benefits for everybody.”  On negative deposit rates:  “We keep an open mind, we are technically ready and it’s
been basically included in the options we have in the future.”  On  Greece :  “The review is currently underway so it wouldn’t be
appropriate for me to comment on speculations regarding the
outcome.”  “Greece has achieved significant progress. We have to
acknowledge this progress.”  On Portugal:  “I think Portugal has achieved very remarkable results.”  “It’s been quite a painful route, and the results that
have been achieved have been quite significant, remarkable if
not outstanding.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  