-- Egypt Stock Euphoria Has Foreigners Selling as Recovery Delayed
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-07-05T14:36:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/egypt-stock-euphoria-has-foreigners-selling-as-recovery-delayed.html
Egypt ’s biggest stock-market rally in
more than a year had foreign investors selling holdings on
concern the military-backed political transition will delay the
nation’s economic recovery.  While local buying sent the benchmark EGX 30 Index soaring
7.3 percent yesterday, non-Arab foreign investors were  net
sellers  of about 103 million Egyptian pounds ($15 million) of
shares, the most since March 28. Egypt’s $1 billion of Eurobonds
due 2020 gained for a second day, extending yesterday’s record
slide in yields.  Interim President Adly Mansour -- sworn in after protests
prompted the army to overthrow Egypt’s first freely-elected
leader -- inherits the worst economic slump in two decades and
the biggest  budget deficit  relative to economic output in the
 Middle East . Egypt’s bid for a $4.8 billion International
Monetary Fund loan has yet to be accepted, leaving the country
reliant on foreign aid.  “Egypt’s economic fundamentals remain unchanged, so the
market gave foreign investors the chance to sell into the
rally,” Ahmad Alanani, Dubai-based director for the Middle East
at Exotix Ltd., said by phone yesterday. “The political picture
today is more polarized than ever before.”  The Egyptian authorities moved to arrest and impose travel
bans on ousted President Mohamed Mursi and other Islamist
leaders, according to state-run media. Mursi supporters are
scheduled to protest across the North African nation today.  Yields on the government’s 2020 benchmark bonds declined 10
basis points to 9.18 percent by 4:29 p.m. in Cairo, extending
yesterday’s 148 basis point plunge, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Debt Repayments  The Market Vectors Egypt Index  ETF (EGPT)  rose 2.2 percent to
$42.99, poised for the highest closing price since June 3.
 Circle Oil Plc (COP) , the Limerick, Ireland-based oil producer with
assets in Egypt, rallied 5.2 percent in  London  to 17.75 pence.
 OCI NV (OCI) , the Amsterdam-based parent of Orascom Construction
Industries, fell 2.4 percent to $27.32 on Euronext Amsterdam.  “The majority of institutional investors will keep their
powder dry and await developments,”  Julian Bruce , head of
institutional trading at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE in Dubai, said
by e-mail yesterday. A “positive investment case for a beaten-up market” can be made if violent protests end, experienced
politicians take charge and the IMF deal is expedited, he added.  Egypt has a record 169 billion pounds ($24 billion) of
local-currency debt repayments due this quarter, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It also must pay about $4.4 billion
of local debt by year-end, denominated in dollars and euros,
which is equivalent to 28 percent of  foreign reserves , enough to
cover about three months of imports, according to central bank
data.  Same Challenges  Mansour will need to contend with the same challenges that
paralyzed the government of Mursi -- a worsening economy,
soaring unemployment and mounting debt. He’ll also face
competing political agendas from the Islamists who backed Mursi
and opposition groups that accused him of rolling back freedoms
and monopolizing power.  The interim president is tasked with forming a coalition
government that will prepare the country for parliamentary and
presidential elections. The National Salvation Front, a
coalition of parties that opposed Mursi and helped drive
protests against him, said yesterday it would not exclude
political Islamist groups going forward.  Non-Arab investors sold 213 million pounds in the last
 three days , the most since June 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The EGX 30 index has rallied 12 percent this month after a
13 percent drop in June.  While “there’s a reason for optimism, with the army
wanting quickly to transition back to civilian rule, foreign
investors remain concerned,”  William Jackson , a London-based
emerging-markets economist at Capital Economics Ltd., said by
phone yesterday. “Judging from the events over the past two
years, political unrest can emerge quickly and unpredictably.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  