-- Egypt Yields Drop Most on Record, Stocks Jump on Ouster
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   D a l i a h   M e r z a b a n
-- 2013-07-04T17:14:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/egyptian-bonds-recover-from-record-low-after-army-ousts-mursi.html
Egypt ’s benchmark bond yield dropped
the most on record and stocks surged after the army deposed
President Mohamed Mursi in a move it said aimed to restore
stability. The nation’s credit risk plunged.  The yield on the 5.75 percent bonds due in April 2020
tumbled 148 basis points, or 1.48 percentage points, the most
since the notes were sold in 2010, to 9.29 percent at 6:48 p.m.
in Cairo, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The EGX 30 Index of
stocks rallied 7.3 percent, the biggest jump since June 25,
2012, the first trading day after Mursi was declared Egypt’s
first democratically elected president. Commercial International
Bank Egypt SAE led the gains, surging 10 percent.  The nation’s five-year credit default swaps slid 100 basis
points as Adly Mansour, the chief justice of the constitutional
court, was sworn in as interim president. The military yesterday
ousted Mursi and called early elections as part of a plan agreed
on with politicians and religious leaders.  “Last night’s dancing and celebrations on the streets are
being echoed in the market,” Ashraf Akhnoukh, Cairo-based
senior manager for  Middle East  and North Africa markets at
Commercial International Brokerage Co., said by phone. “Some
could consider it a coup, but it’s still better for the country
because it gives it a chance to move forward and rebuild its
economy.”  ‘Marked Shift’  The CDS contracts decreased to 800, the lowest since June
21, according to CMA, a data provider owned by McGraw-Hill Cos.
that compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. Egypt remains one of the world’s 10 riskiest
credits and the 2020 bond yield is still up about 3 percentage
points in the past year.  The country is struggling with the worst economic slump in
two decades and facing the Middle East’s biggest budget deficit
as a percentage of economic output. Egypt has about 169 billion
pounds ($24 billion) of local-currency debt repayments this
quarter, a record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Political bickering since Mursi was elected has prolonged talks
with the  International Monetary Fund  for a $4.8 billion loan.  “There’s a marked shift in sentiment but it should be a
temporary move because Egyptian fundamentals are just
terrible,” Raza Agha, chief Middle East and Africa economist at
VTB Capital Plc, said by phone from  London . “It remains to be
seen whether the army can move forward with reduced involvement
from the Islamists. An IMF program remains central to sustained
positive economic development and it’s not clear whether that
can be secured amid the upcoming transition.”  Local Buyers  Support for the military’s move from Persian Gulf countries
 Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest oil exporter, and the  United
Arab Emirates  “bodes well for bilateral aid until an IMF deal
can be secured,” Agha said.  The army’s measures were cast as putting Egypt back on a
path of the 2011 uprising that Mursi’s critics said was
subverted by the Muslim Brotherhood organization that fielded
him. Mursi, 61, said the army had carried out a coup and Muslim
Brotherhood spokesman Gehad El-Haddad said the actions by the
military were the work of “the old regime.”  Foreign investors have been wary of Egyptian assets, being
net sellers of stocks in the past three days, according to
bourse data, and offloading their holdings of treasury bills
since the 2011 revolt. Egyptians were  net buyers  of about 150
million pounds of stocks on July 2 and 3, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The value of shares traded today was 383 million pounds,
compared with a six-month daily average of 303 million pounds.
The Market Vectors Egypt  exchange-traded fund  rose for a fifth
day yesterday in  New York .  Debt Auctions  The nation raised the 7 billion pounds of six-month and
one-year treasury bills it sought at an auction today, as bids
for one-year bills exceeded the amount offered by 2.2 times and
the yield plunged 80 basis points to 14.6 percent, according to
central bank data on Bloomberg. The sale is part of a plan to
sell 200 billion pounds of debt in the period.  The Egyptian pound, whose movement on the  interbank market 
is controlled by the central bank, strengthened to 7.0283 a
dollar today from an all-time low of 7.0289 yesterday. The
currency has weakened 12 percent since the central bank eased
support for the currency to trim a slump in foreign reserves.  The dollar’s exchange rate fell to 7.56 pounds on the black
market today from 7.59 yesterday, according to the average quote
of five dealers in Cairo, who asked not to be identified because
the business is illegal.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards for the currency
appreciated 1.1 percent from a record low to 8.95 a dollar
today, reflecting bets the currency will depreciate about 21
percent in a year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Daliah Merzaban in Dubai at 
 dmerzaban@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  