-- Egypt Turmoil Curbs Demand for Black-Market Dollars: Arab Credit
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-07-04T14:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/egypt-turmoil-curbs-demand-for-black-market-dollars-arab-credit.html
Demand for dollars on  Egypt ’s black
market declined as the crisis that forced President Mohamed Mursi out of power spurred importers to scale back their
purchases and manufacturers to cut production.  The U.S. currency traded at 7.56 Egyptian pounds on the
unregulated market today, a 7.6 percent premium over the
official rate of 7.0283, according to the average quote of five
dealers in Cairo who asked not to be identified because the
business is illegal. The premium narrowed from 8 percent
yesterday and as high as 15 percent in April. Egypt’s benchmark
stock index and bonds soared today.  Businesses and consumers have gone into “panic mode” and
are limiting purchases to essentials, according to Magdy Tolba,
who manages two companies that make textiles locally for brands
including Calvin Klein Inc. and Levi Strauss & Co. The pound has
weakened 9.5 percent this year, the biggest drop in the  Middle
East  after  Syria ’s currency.  “Politics are casting a shadow over the economy as a
whole, almost bringing everything to a standstill,” said Tolba,
who sent his 6,500 workers home early yesterday and postponed
deliveries. “Importers, exporters, consumers -- everyone -- is
worried.”  Army Acts  Egypt’s military-appointed interim president was sworn in
today, starting a polarized nation on a new course hours after
Mursi was ousted as the country’s first democratically elected
civilian leader in what he described as a coup. Minister of
Defence Abdelfatah Al-Seesi yesterday called early presidential
elections as part of a road map agreed on with politicians and
religious leaders.  The yield on the 5.75 percent bonds due in April 2020
plunged 1.49 percentage points, the most since the notes were
sold in 2010, to 9.28 percent at 4:50 p.m. in Cairo, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with 6.27 percent a
year ago. The EGX 30 Index of stocks rallied 7.3 percent, the
biggest jump since June 25, 2012, the first trading day after
Mursi was declared president. Commercial International Bank
Egypt SAE led the gains, surging 10 percent.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards on the pound, which
reflect expectations of where the currency is headed,
strengthened 1.1 percent to 8.95 a dollar, still near the lowest
on record and indicating a depreciation of about 21 percent in
the period.  Credit Risk  Five-year credit-default swaps, which protect investors
against non-payment of Egyptian government debt, dropped 113
basis points today to 787 basis points. The contracts are still
among the 10 most expensive globally. The Market Vectors Egypt
 exchange-traded fund  rallied a fifth day in  New York  yesterday.  Egypt’s pound has weakened this year as the central bank
loosened its grip on the currency to stem the drop in  foreign
reserves , which plunged by more than 50 percent following the
2011 revolt that ousted former president  Hosni Mubarak . The
central bank allowed the pound to depreciate 0.1 percent
yesterday, the most since May 16, before the military’s
deadline.  Importers, who bring in about $4.8 billion of goods every
month, according to central bank data, are waiting to see how
the transition pans out after a political impasse in the past
year pitted Mursi against detractors who claimed he sold out the
goals of the 2011 revolt.  ‘Risky Environment’  “This is a very risky environment for business,” Nour Mohei-el-Din, assistant general manager for treasury at BNP
Paribas Egypt, said by phone yesterday before the military
removed Mursi. “We’re seeing imports, excluding very basic
goods, come almost to a complete halt.”  Political bickering since Mursi was elected in June 2012
complicated the government’s ability to pull the nation of
almost 85 million people out of the  worst economic slump  in two
decades. It has also prolonged talks with the  International
Monetary Fund  for a $4.8 billion loan.  Egypt’s economy probably grew 2.1 percent in the fiscal
year that ended June 30, approaching the slowest pace since
1992, the median of 17 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg
shows. Unemployment exceeds 13 percent and revenue from tourism,
one of the government’s main sources of foreign currency, has
dried up.  Debt Mounting  The need for stability in Egypt is amplified by the fact
that the nation is facing a mountain of debt, including 1.4
trillion pounds ($199 billion) of domestic liabilities and
another $39 billion of external debt, according to Finance
Ministry data. Together, that represents about 94 percent of
economic output.  The central bank has taken steps to ease the burden of a
currency shortage on importers since it started foreign-exchange
auctions on Dec. 30 to limit banks’ access to dollars. Those
sales typically take place three times a week, and the regulator
has held exceptional auctions to provide banks with funds to
cover imports of basic commodities, helping narrow the black-market premium since April.  The pound appreciated for the first time since the start of
the auctions today,  strengthening  to 7.0184 per dollar from
7.0189, according to an e-mail from the central bank.  Importers are getting used to the higher costs, according
to Tolba, whose companies sometimes turn to the black market. To
cope with the added expense, companies operate at a much lower
capacity and put off buying intermediate goods, he said.  Once circumstances become safe enough for employees to
return to work, Tolba is willing to shell out more to import
materials for the garments his factories produce. He’s just
waiting for greater political stability.  “We need solid economic management, which doesn’t exist
right now,” he said yesterday. “We’re a very labor-intensive
industry, so when our employees can’t come to work, we have to
shut down. Hopefully tomorrow we can return to normal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  