-- Telecom Italia Halts Talks With Hutchison on Mobile Merger
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-07-05T09:09:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/telecom-italia-halts-talks-with-hutchison-unit-on-merger.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  ended talks with
 Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  over a potential merger of their Italian
mobile-phone assets, a lost chance to consolidate in  Europe ’s
overcrowded mobile-phone industry through a combination of
Italy’s biggest and No. 4 carriers.  Telecom Italia directors, at a meeting in Milan yesterday,
decided “there are not the elements necessary to start
negotiations,” Italy’s largest carrier said in a statement
after the gathering. In a separate  release , 3 Italia said it
wouldn’t be in a position to get approval from its Hong Kong-based parent Hutchison for a deal.  The talks stalled over disagreements about valuation,
people familiar with the matter told Bloomberg News July 2.
Telecom Italia executives intend to focus on spinning off the
company’s fixed-line assets, a plan approved by its board at the
end of May, they said.  “Though the deal made sense from the business side, there
were from the beginning too many regulatory, financial and
political obstacles,” Andrea De Vita, an analyst at Banca
Akros-Esn, said in a phone interview. The main hurdle remains
the valuation, said De Vita, who has an “accumulate” rating on
Telecom Italia shares.  Potential Merger  While 3 Italia has a so-called fair value of 1.5 billion
euros ($1.9 billion), the lack of clarity on how much of the
carrier’s accumulated losses can be used to offset taxes means
the price could differ by billions of dollars, a person familiar
with the matter said in May.  “After H3G and Telecom Italia halted talks for a potential
merger, consolidation of  Italy ’s phone industry remains possible
but no longer topical,” Stefano Lustig, an analyst at Equita
Sim SpA, said in a note to clients. Equita, which cut Telecom
Italia’s rating to “hold” from “buy,” expects weak
fundamentals for the Italian phone company “in the short
term.”  Irish Deal  Telecom Italia shares fell as much as 2.7 percent and
traded 2.4 percent lower at 51.80 cents at 10:52 a.m. in Milan,
giving the carrier a market value of 9.4 billion euros. The
company had 28.8 billion euros in net debt at the end of March.
Hutchison climbed 0.6 percent to HK$83.25 in  Hong Kong .  A failed linkup between Telecom Italia and Hutchison
wouldn’t be a first. Hutchison held discussions in 2010 over a
sale of the business to Telecom Italia, and the talks didn’t
result in a deal because of differences in valuation, people
with knowledge of the matter said at the time.  In Ireland, Hutchison said last week it agreed to acquire
 Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s local unit for as much as $1.1 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  