-- Telefonica Said to Hold Off Colombian IPO Amid Negotiations
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-07-05T12:32:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/telefonica-said-to-hold-off-colombian-ipo-amid-government-talks.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , the Spanish phone
company selling assets to cut debt, has held off preparations
for an initial public offering of its Colombian division after
emerging stock markets tumbled, according to three people
familiar with the situation.  A share sale being explored this year will probably be
pushed into 2014 at the earliest as Telefonica considers options
for raising funds, the people said, asking not to be identified
because the deliberations are confidential. The company, which
controls 70 percent of the unit, is watching how Colombia’s
presidential elections next May affect the state’s 30 percent
holding, two of the people said.  Telefonica turned to the Andean country this year after
halting an IPO plan for all of its Latin American assets. The
Madrid-based carrier could raise more than 500 million euros
($644 million) by selling a 19 percent stake in the Colombian
division to retain control, according to an April estimate by
Andres Bolumburu, an analyst at Banco de Sabadell.  “This is a tough deal to get done as it implies very
complex negotiations between Telefonica and the Colombian
government with regards to the deleveraging of the subsidiary,”
said James Ratzer, a London-based analyst at New Street
Research. “Investors will only subscribe to an IPO with a much
lower level of debt.”  Good Terms  Telefonica is talking to the local government on good terms
to explore ways to strengthen the  capital structure  of the unit,
without ruling out an IPO, according to a spokeswoman for
Telefonica in Madrid.  The stock climbed 3.6 percent yesterday, the biggest gain
in more than three months, after Bloomberg News reported the
deliberations. Telefonica is holding off the IPO plan as it
makes progress elsewhere in cutting debt. The company last month
agreed to sell its Irish division for as much as $1.1 billion.
Europe’s most indebted phone company intends to bring its net
debt below 47 billion euros this year, from about 51.2 billion
euros at the end of March.  Today, the stock slipped 0.9 percent to 9.98 euros at 2:28
p.m. in Madrid.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index has lost 12 percent this
year, compared with an 8.3 percent increase in the MSCI World
Index of developed-nation shares, partly reflecting investors’
concerns about an economic slowdown in countries such as China
and  Brazil .  Slim Race  Yields on Colombia’s benchmark peso bonds due 2024 have
surged 1.8 percentage points to 6.72 percent in the last two
months and the local currency has dropped more than 4 percent
after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke signaled the U.S.
central bank will start reducing stimulus that buoyed emerging-market assets as investors sought higher yields.  Santiago Fernandez Valbuena, the phone company’s top Latin
American executive, said in an interview last month that the
Colombian government is reluctant to dilute its stake.  Telefonica is struggling to compete in Colombia against
billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil SAB (AMXL) , which dominates
Latin America’s fourth-largest economy with 62 percent of
mobile-phone subscribers. Telefonica also needs to cut a $1.5
billion pension-fund deficit that has to be paid off from the
company’s earnings, according to Fernandez Valbuena.  The unit is valued at about 3 billion euros, which is
equivalent to the amount of debt in the subsidiary, according to
Ratzer. A solution to the high level of debt would require a
capital injection by the company and the government, he said.  While Colombia  represents  less than 3 percent of
Telefonica’s revenue, the company is counting on markets in
Spanish-speaking Latin America for expansion as growth slows in
Brazil and European markets struggle to recover. Colombian
revenue rose 13 percent last year to 1.77 billion euros, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in  Madrid   at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  