-- Emerging Stocks Advance as Egypt Markets Rally on Mursi Ouster
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-07-04T21:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/emerging-stocks-snap-two-day-drop-on-u-s-data-as-zijin-surges.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for the
first time in three days as Egyptian shares soared after the
army deposed President Mohamed Mursi and Brazilian equities
rebounded from the worst monthly selloff in four years.  Egyptian Financial & Industrial Co. and Commercial
International Bank  Egypt  SAE led the EGX 30 Index 7.3 percent
higher, its biggest jump since June 2012. The Ibovespa climbed
as companies controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista  surged and
iron-ore producer Vale SA gained for the first time in three
days. Batista’s flagship company OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes rose 21 percent, while MPX Energia SA soared 10
percent.  Brazil ’s real rose after the central bank intervened.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 1.1 percent to
922.10. The European Central Bank left its interest rate
unchanged today and President Mario Draghi made an unprecedented
pledge to keep rates low for an extended period. Yields on
Egypt’s $1 billion of 5.75 percent bonds due in April 2020 fell
148 basis points, or 1.48 percentage points, the most since the
notes were sold in 2010, to 9.29 percent. U.S. markets are shut
today for the Independence Day holiday.  “Despite how much potential there was for big problems to
emerge out of Egypt, so far so good,” Christopher Palmer, who
oversees about $2.5 billion as the London-based director of
global emerging markets at Henderson Global Investors Ltd., said
by phone. “There’s been a number of things pressuring markets
that maybe just eased off a bit. The ECB’s comments played a
role in this.”  Telecommunications Surge  The ECB officials left the main refinancing rate at 0.5
percent at a meeting in  Frankfurt  after reducing it by a quarter
point in May. The decision was predicted by 61 of 62 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey. The benchmark will remain at the
current or lower level for an “extended period of time,”
Draghi said.  The 21 countries in the developing-nations gauge send about
17 percent of their exports to the U.S. and 26 percent to the
European Union on average, data compiled by the World Trade
Organization show. Nine of 10 industry groups in MSCI’s
developing-nation index increased today, led by gauges of
telecommunications services and energy and materials companies.  Egyptian Financial and Commercial International Bank Egypt
jumped 10 percent in Cairo, the biggest gain for both since
2008. Adly Mansour, the chief justice of the constitutional
court, was sworn in as interim president today after the army
ousted Mursi late yesterday and called early elections as part
of a plan agreed on with politicians and religious leaders.  Batista Resignation  The Ibovespa added 1.6 percent. Energy company MPX jumped
in Sao Paulo as founder Batista quit as chairman after  Germany ’s
E.ON SE strengthened its control, agreeing to invest 400 million
reais ($176 million) in the utility and appointing an interim
head of the board. OGX surged after a 58 percent tumble in the
previous five days, while Vale added 3.7 percent.  South Africa’s FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index rose 1.8
percent, its first gain in three days. Benchmark indexes in
 Hungary ,  Poland  and the Czech Republic climbed at least 0.7
percent.  Mexico ’s IPC Index gained 0.9 percent.  Gedeon  Richter Nyrt ., Hungary’s biggest drugmaker, added
2.8 percent, the most since May 24, on speculation a planned
10-1 split in the stock’s face value this month will see the
company returned to MSCI Inc.’s index for the country.  Russia ’s Micex index advanced 1.2 percent. OAO Rostelecom,
Russia’s largest fixed-line operator, added 5.2 percent in
Moscow, rising for a fifth day, its longest winning streak since
Jan. 9. The company is in talks to sell part of its treasury
shares to the Kremlin-backed Russian Direct Investment Fund,
spokeswoman Kira Kiryukhina said on July 2.  Real Intervention  The MSCI gauge has declined 13 percent this year, compared
with an 8.2 percent increase in the MSCI World Index of
developed-nation shares. The emerging-market index is valued at
9.6 times 12-month estimated earnings, compared with a multiple
of 13.3 for the MSCI World, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The real rose 0.9 percent after the Brazilian central bank
intervened in the foreign-exchange market to stem a three-month
rout. South Africa’s rand and the South Korean won strengthened
0.5 percent versus the dollar.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
traded in Hong Kong rose 1.4 percent, led by gains in Zijin
Mining Group Co., which surged 11 percent. South Korea’s Kospi
Index climbed 0.8 percent, while  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex added
1.2 percent, ending a two-day retreat.  Low Volumes  Trading volumes in Taiwan, Malaysia and  Indonesia  were at
least 20 percent less than their respective 30-day averages,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Micex traded 46 percent
below its average.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 0.6 percent as
commodity producers, consumer discretionary companies and
property developers rallied. Chinese Premier Li Keqiang said
money should also be allocated to transform the structure of the
economy to focus more on domestic consumption, according to the
State Council in a statement on its website yesterday.  Hyundai Merchant Marine Co., the biggest shareholder in
Hyundai Asan Corp., which manages a resort in communist North
Korea, jumped 15 percent, the most in more than two weeks in
 Seoul . The two Koreas officially restored a hotline at the
border village of Panmunjom today. North Korea said yesterday it
will allow South Korean businessmen back into the jointly-run
Gaeseong industrial complex, which has been shut since the North
withdrew its workers in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  