-- ETF Securities Says Gold Investor Exit Probably Peaked in April
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-07-04T07:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/etf-securities-says-gold-investor-exit-probably-peaked-in-april.html
Sales of gold through exchange-traded
products probably peaked in April and contributed to a record
drop in commodity ETP assets in the second quarter, according to
ETF Securities Ltd.  Sales of gold products accounted for 97 percent of a record
$19 billion of net outflows from commodity ETPs in the second
quarter, ETF Securities said in a report today. Commodity ETP
assets fell to $127 billion from $186 billion at the end of
March, with price declines accounting for two-thirds of the
drop, it said.  Monthly net outflows from gold ETPs fell to $3.9 billion in
June from $6 billion in May, Nicholas Brooks, ETF Securities’
head of research and investment strategy, said in an interview
yesterday. They were $8.7 billion in April, when bullion plunged
into  bear market , he said. Gold dropped 23 percent in the second
quarter, the most in data compiled by Bloomberg going back to
1920, as some investors lost faith in the traditional store of
value and the U.S. Federal Reserve indicated it may start
tapering its stimulus program.  “It may be that the peak of gold ETP selling is largely
behind us,” Brooks said. “A lot of the bad news in gold has
been priced in. The sentiment is extremely negative. When
everyone is extremely negative, it’s usually a sign that you are
closer to the bottom.”  Gold Holdings  Gold  holdings  in global ETPs dropped 589.4 metric tons this
year to 2042.5 tons, the lowest since May 2010 and on pace for
the first annual drop since before the products were introduced
in 2003, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Hedge funds  are
holding the second-highest wager ever that gold prices will drop
and banks from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to Credit Suisse Group
AG cut their forecasts last month.  Gold ETP sales by investors in  North America  accounted for
52 percent of outflows in June, down from almost 90 percent in
April and 56 percent in May, Brooks said. Retail investors
account for about half of gold ETP investments in the U.S. and
about 20 percent in  Europe , he said.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 19 the central bank
may slow its bond-buying program if the  U.S. economy  continues
to improve. Gold for immediate delivery fell to $1,180.50 an
ounce on June 28, the lowest level since August 2010.  Fund Assets  Money managers pulled $2 billion from gold funds in the
week ended June 26, according to Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
EPFR Global, which tracks money flows. Total outflows from
commodity funds were $2.68 billion, according to EPFR.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities
retreated 6.7 percent last quarter, led by silver and gold. The
MSCI All-Country World Index of equities fell 1.2 percent as the
dollar rose 0.2 percent against a basket of six currencies.  U.S. President  Richard Nixon  severed the dollar’s peg to
gold in 1971 and the government lifted curbs on citizens owning
gold at the end of 1974.  Platinum investments were “the one bright spot” in the
second quarter with net inflows of $712 million on concern about
supply from the top producer  South Africa , ETF Securities said.
Agriculture ETPs had $108 million in outflows on prospects for
bigger crops, it said.  Investors have been using short ETPs, which bet on lower
commodity prices, “more aggressively” in the past few months,
particularly in copper and gold, Brooks said. Sometimes
investors use short ETPs to hedge their long positions in mining
equities, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  