-- Ethiopia Increases Spending as IMF Calls for More Private Loans
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2013-07-04T13:47:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/ethiopia-increases-spending-as-imf-calls-for-more-private-loans.html
Ethiopian lawmakers approved a 12
percent spending increase in 2013-14 to help support
infrastructure development as the  International Monetary Fund 
urged the government to free up credit for private borrowers.  The state will boost spending to 159.4 billion birr ($8.5
billion) in the year from July 8 with about one-third allocated
to upgrading roads, State Minister of Finance Abraham Tekeste
said today by phone from the capital,  Addis Ababa . External
sources account for about one-fifth of the 2013-14 budget.  Expenditure is focused on “infrastructure development,
human-resource development and basic services,” Abraham said.  The government is implementing a five-year economic
development plan through mid-2015 in which it’s spending 569
billion birr on projects including construction of the $4.3
billion Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam, which it’s self-funding, supporting industry and laying down rail links.  The $43.1 billion economy of sub-Saharan  Africa ’s second-most populous nation grew a “robust” 7 percent in the 2012-13
fiscal year and inflation is expected to ease to 6.6 percent by
year-end, the IMF said in an e-mailed statement today following
a regular consultation. Consumer prices rose 6.3 percent in May
from 6.1 percent in April, according to the country’s statistics
agency.  Ethiopia’s government should substitute some domestic
financing with external, concessional borrowing to ensure
private borrowers have access to loans or else slow the pace of
its public investments, the Washington-based IMF said.  Credit Absorption  “Sizeable investment spending of public enterprises
continues to absorb a large share of domestic financing and
constrain credit available to the private sector,” it said.  Ethiopia’s ratio of public investment to gross domestic
product is 19 percent, the third-highest in the world, while its
investment rate at 7 percent is the sixth-lowest, the  World Bank 
said in a report last month.  The IMF also called on the government to boost the role of
private companies in the economy.  Ethiopia runs a mixed economy in which state companies
monopolize or dominate key industries including
telecommunications, banking and power while it encourages
private investment in manufacturing and agriculture.  “A vibrant private sector is essential to attain middle
income status,” by the state’s goal of 2025, the IMF said. “It
would be important to foster competition in areas where public
enterprises enjoy monopolies, and gradually withdrawing from
sectors where they crowd out the private sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  