-- European Stocks Rally as ECB Says Rates to Remain Low
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-07-04T16:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/european-stock-futures-rise-before-ecb-rate-decision.html
European stocks rose the most in more
than two months as the  European Central Bank  said that  interest
rates  will remain low for an extended period, and  Portugal ’s
political leaders sought to hold their coalition government
together. U.S. index futures and Asian shares also climbed.  Banco Espirito Santo SA rallied after sinking 11 percent
yesterday.  Taylor Wimpey Plc  rose 7.1 percent as the U.K.
housebuilder said its operating-profit margin increased in the
first half. OC Oerlikon Corp. added 3.5 percent after completing
the sale of its natural-fibers business.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index surged 2.3 percent to 292.15 at
the close of trading,  paring  the gauge’s retreat from its 2013
high on May 22 to 5.9 percent. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
futures rose 0.9 percent today, while the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index added 0.4 percent. U.S. equity markets are closed today
for the Independence Day holiday.  “Forward guidance has entered the Eurotower,” said Witold Bahrke, who helps oversee $55 billion as a senior strategist at
PFA Pension A/S in Copenhagen. “We got a taster at earlier
meetings, but today’s formulation is a real innovation.”  The ECB’s President  Mario Draghi  predicted that interest
rates will remain low for an extended period of time. Speaking
at a press conference at the central bank’s offices in
 Frankfurt ’s Eurotower, Draghi said that key interest rates will
remain at their current levels or lower for as long as
necessary. Policy makers left their  main refinancing rate  at 0.5
percent at today’s meeting as predicted by all but one of the 62
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News. (EURR002W)   Forward Guidance  In the U.K., the  Bank of England  signaled that it will
leave interest rates at a record low for longer than investors
had expected.  “The implied rise in the expected future path of  bank rate 
was not warranted by the recent developments in the domestic
economy,” the BOE said in a statement.  The central bank left its  bond-purchase target  at 375
billion pounds ($565 billion) and its key rate at 0.5 percent as
predicted by economists in Bloomberg surveys.  The Stoxx 600 slid 0.6 percent yesterday as the leader of
the junior partner in Portugal’s coalition government resigned
and crude oil surged above $100 a barrel.  National benchmark indexes advanced in every western-European market except Iceland. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX)  jumped 3.1
percent, its biggest rally in 19 months.  France ’s CAC 40 surged
2.9 percent and  Germany ’s DAX gained 2.1 percent.  Portugal’s Government  Paulo Portas, whose resignation on July 2 threatened to
bring down the  Portuguese government , meets with Prime Minister
 Pedro Passos Coelho  in an attempt to hold the coalition
together. An official in CDS, the smaller of the two parties in
the government, said that Portas will seek a guarantee that his
group can retain an influence on policy.  “We’ve seen slightly more positive tones out of Portugal
in the last hours which gives markets some relief,” Bahrke
wrote in an e-mail.  Banco Espirito Santo SA, Portugal biggest bank by market
value, rallied 11 percent to 60.5 euro cents. Banco Comercial
Portugues SA, the second largest, surged 9.9 percent to 8.9 euro
cents. Portugal’s PSI 20 Index jumped 3.7 percent, paring its
5.3 percent tumble yesterday.  In  Egypt , the army removed President Mohamed Mursi from
power and suspended the constitution. West Texas Intermediate
crude remained above $100 a barrel for a second day amid concern
the rioting in the Arab world’s most populous state will disrupt
the supply of oil through the  Suez Canal .  Jobs Report  In the U.S., a Labor Department report tomorrow will show
that the world’s biggest economy added 165,000 jobs in June,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. The
release may also show that the  unemployment rate  fell to 7.5
percent from 7.6 percent in May.  Taylor Wimpey added 7.1 percent to 103.8 pence. The U.K.’s
second-largest housebuilder by market value reported an
operating-profit margin in its domestic market of more than 13
percent, compared with 11.2 percent a year earlier. It will
publish  first-half results  on July 31.  Persimmon Plc, the country’s largest homebuilder, added 4.4
percent to 1,266 pence. Barratt Developments Plc rose 5 percent
to 333.8 pence.  Oerlikon rose 3.5 percent to 11.70 Swiss francs after the
maker of textile machinery said it will receive 470 million
francs ($491 million) from the sale of its natural-fibers
business to Jinsheng Group of  China . Oerlikon announced the deal
in December.  Peugeot Rallies  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  surged 10 percent to 6.86 euros, its
biggest gain since April 24. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. upgraded
the shares of the French automaker to buy from neutral. The
brokerage said that Peugeot will probably beat its goals for
reducing cash consumption.  Subsea 7 SA added 2.7 percent to 107.30 kroner. The
provider of offshore oilfield services won a $400 million
contract from Petroleo Brasileiro SA.  Celesio AG sank 7.7 percent to 15.22 euros, the biggest
drop since September 2011. Jefferies Group LLC downgraded the
German drug distributor to hold from buy. The shares fell the
most in 21 months yesterday after the company’s supervisory
board fired Chief Executive Officer Markus Pinger. In a
statement, the company cited differences of opinion over how to
manage the business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  