-- Ex-UBS Trader Hayes May Indicate Plea at U.K. Libor Hearing
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-07-04T00:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/ex-ubs-trader-hayes-may-indicate-plea-at-u-k-libor-hearing.html
Tom Hayes, the former  UBS AG (UBSN)  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  trader charged with manipulation of benchmark
interest rates, may indicate how he will plead when he appears
in a London criminal court today.  While the 33-year-old isn’t scheduled to enter a plea, he
can do so at any point in the proceedings, Jina Roe, a
spokeswoman for the Serious Fraud Office, which is prosecuting
the case, said today.  “It’s unlikely that a formal plea will be entered
tomorrow, though the defendant could indicate what his intention
is,” Roe said. “A plea could be offered at any time.”  Hayes is charged with conspiring with employees of JPMorgan
Chase & Co.,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , HSBC Holdings
Plc, Rabobank Groep and Deutsche Bank AG, as well as Tullett
Prebon Plc, ICAP Plc and RP Martin Holdings Ltd., over a four-year period to manipulate yen Libor rates.  At his first court appearance last month, Hayes’s lawyer,
Lydia Jonson, declined to indicate how he would plead when asked
by a judge. Jonson didn’t return a call and e-mail seeking
comment on the hearing.  Hayes joined UBS in 2006 and worked at the Swiss lender
until 2009, when he joined Citigroup. He worked at Edinburgh-based RBS from 2001 to 2003.  Four of the charges cover the period from Aug. 8, 2006,
until Dec. 3, 2009, while he worked at UBS, and the other four
from Dec. 1, 2009 until Sept. 7, 2010, when he was at Citigroup.  Hayes tried to manipulate rates “with the intention that
the economic interests of others would be prejudiced and/or to
make personal gain for themselves or another,” U.K. prosecutors
said in the indictment.  Hayes has also been charged by the U.S. Justice Department,
which is running a parallel criminal investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  