-- Fidelity Sees Bargains as 98% of Asia Bonds Sink: Credit Markets
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-07-04T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/fidelity-sees-bargains-as-98-of-asia-bonds-sink-credit-markets.html
The worst corporate-bond rout since
the credit crisis left 98 percent of Asia’s dollar-denominated
bonds sold last quarter at a discount, a sign to Fidelity
Worldwide Investment it’s time to buy.  A total of 60 bonds issued by borrowers from  China  to India
and  Indonesia  in the past three months are now trading below
their sale price, with six of the 10 biggest declines coming
from investment-grade companies that sold longer-dated notes.
China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., Asia’s largest refiner, led
the retreat as the $500 million of 30-year bonds it issued in
April fell almost 16 cents on the dollar through June 30,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While speculation the Federal Reserve will start paring its
unprecedented bond buying and China’s clampdown on its shadow
banking system triggered a global selloff that pushed borrowing
costs in Asia to a 12-month high, the exodus is now giving debt
investors a chance to scoop up bargains, according to Fidelity’s
Bryan Collins. The extra yield investment-grade bonds from Asian
companies offer over U.S. Treasuries rose to 2.34 percentage
points on June 26, the most since September, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch.  “Spreads are actually quite attractive, especially for
some of the higher quality names where you can be very
comfortable about the credit and the stability of the
business,” Collins, a Hong Kong-based money manager at
Fidelity, which oversees $248 billion, said in a telephone
interview. “It does absolutely present a buying opportunity”
for investors who can protect against rising yields, he said.  China Picks  Fidelity is adding to its Asian debt funds some high-quality bonds that are less sensitive to the economy, Collins
said. Looking in the medium to longer term, A rated and AA rated
large companies that are systemically important and related to
state-owned enterprises are attractive at current spreads,
according to Collins.  Cnooc Ltd., China’s biggest offshore oil explorer and
graded AA- by Standard & Poor’s, had the third-biggest losses
last quarter with its 30-year bonds. Debentures sold by Sinochem
Corp. and Golden Eagle Retail Group Ltd. were also among the 10
worst performers, Bloomberg prices show.  Globally, corporate and high-yield debt lost 2.2 percent in
the second quarter, the most since the third quarter of 2008,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show. Corporate debt from
Asian  emerging markets  lost 4.1 percent while investment-grade
debt from the region retreated 4.4 percent, both the most in 4
1/2-years, the indexes show.  ‘Potential Headwinds’  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke roiled markets last month when
he said the central bank may taper its unprecedented stimulus
this year and halt bond purchases around mid-2014, so long as
the U.S. economy performs as forecast. Yields on 10-year
Treasuries climbed, ranging between 2.08 percent and 2.61
percent last month, according to Bloomberg Indexes.  Some $60 billion has been pulled from U.S. bond funds since
then as investors, who fled volatile stock markets to pour about
$1 trillion into fixed-income securities since the beginning of
2009, reversed that pattern in anticipation of rising rates.  “After this correction, valuations look less tight and a
bit more attractive,” said Luc Froehlich, a Hong Kong-based
portfolio manager in Manulife Asset Management’s Asia fixed-income team, which oversees more than $44 billion. “But it’s
really hard to nail down the best moment to pick up those bonds.
I still see some potential headwinds from fund flows out of
emerging markets.”  Default Swaps  Elsewhere in the credit markets, the cost of insuring
corporate bonds against losses fell in Europe this week.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps on
125 investment-grade companies dropped 6.5 basis points to
112.6, the lowest since June 19, as of 3:43 p.m. in  London 
yesterday. In the Asia-Pacific region, the Markit iTraxx Asia
index of 40 investment-grade borrowers outside Japan climbed 8.9
basis points in the period to 161.3 basis points in Hong Kong.  The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Investment-grade bonds, which were little changed this
week, have decreased 4.15 percent this year, according to the
Bloomberg Global Investment Grade  Corporate Bond Index (BCOR)  as of
July 3.  Fund Flows  Sinochem’s $600 million of 5 percent notes sold in April at
par were trading at 88.77 cents on the dollar to yield 6.21
percent as of July 4, Bloomberg-compiled prices show. Cnooc’s
4.25 percent of $500 million securities, sold at 98.515 cents on
the dollar, were trading at 84.38 cents and yielding 5.29
percent.  “Fundamentals haven’t changed over the last six weeks but
perceptions and risk appetites have,” said Suanjin Tan, a
Singapore-based Asia fixed-income portfolio manager at BlackRock
Inc. “The upheavals we’ve seen over the last few weeks have
created certain dislocations in the market, and have provided
opportunities we can take advantage of both in a relative value
as well as an absolute sense.”  Investors pulled a record $23.3 billion from global bond
funds in the week ending June 26, with outflows from emerging
markets jumping to an all-time high, according to EPFR Global.  India, China  Investment-grade bonds in India and China are however
performing better than Russian or Brazilian debt this month,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show, returning 0.33
percent and 0.31 percent respectively.  The  cost of insuring  Asian investment-grade sovereign and
corporate bonds from non-payment fell for the first time in
seven weeks in the period to June 28, ending the longest streak
of increases since July 2008, according to data provider CMA.  Perceptions of Export-Import Bank of China’s
creditworthiness improved most, with credit-default swaps on the
AA- rated lender falling 36.5 basis points, according to CMA,
which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the private market.  Bank of China Ltd. and China Development Bank Corp. were
the second and third best performers respectively.  “The investment-grade market will snap back,” according
to Murlidhar Maiya, the head of debt capital markets for Asia
ex- Japan  at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Hong Kong. “It’s very hard
to nuance these corrections. You overshoot in both directions
and that’s why we’ve seen this sell off.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  