-- Financial Industry Is Serious About Cybersecurity
-- B y   J u d d   G r e g g
-- 2013-07-04T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/financial-industry-is-serious-about-cybersecurity.html
The financial industry has been under
a constant state of attack for the past year as hackers attempt
to steal clients’ money, crash computer systems and disrupt
capital markets. So far, the industry has been able to thwart
the most serious attacks and protect its clients, but hackers
are adapting and growing more dangerous.  It is vital that Congress recognize the urgency of this
situation and take action to provide the private sector with the
tools and support it needs to defend the millions of Americans
it serves every day.  One of the most alarming trends is the increasing number of
cyber-attacks on smaller financial institutions and businesses.
These organizations typically don’t have the same resources or
access to information that larger companies do. This makes them
more vulnerable to a malicious attack that could disrupt capital
markets and shake investor confidence in the financial system.  Hackers are also using individuals and smaller institutions
as a gateway to infiltrate larger banking organizations.
Everyone is a target.  Even in the absence of congressional action, cybersecurity
is a top priority for the financial industry. It is devoting
significant resources to build infrastructure and develop
processes that protect clients, companies and the integrity of
capital markets.  Evolving Threats  My trade group, the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association, is organizing an industrywide exercise
called “Quantum Dawn 2” on July 18. This exercise will
simulate a cyber-attack on the U.S. financial system. It will
force individual companies to test their response plans in order
to maintain effective and orderly markets and protect client
data.  The simulation will include more than 50 companies and
exchanges, as well as the U.S. Treasury Department, the
Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of
Homeland Security.  Industry efforts alone are insufficient. President  Barack
Obama  got it right in his Feb. 12  executive order , which
encourages partnerships between the federal government and
private-sector businesses. But we need more information from the
U.S. government on the diverse and evolving threats we are
facing. Moreover, this information must be timely and
actionable. The government has the resources to gather, process
and disseminate intelligence on cyberthreats. Unfortunately,
most of the time it can’t share that information with the
private sector until after a cyber-attack has occurred. The
industry needs access to this threat information before an
attack so it can proactively prepare and defend clients’
information and assets.  Likewise, if a financial company is the target of an attack
-- whether successful or not -- or has intelligence on a new
threat, that information must be shared with government agencies
and other companies that could be affected. Yet companies are
cautious about sharing threat information that could be used to
stop future attacks. Why? Currently there are no liability
protections for companies that share pertinent data. That has to
change. As Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew recently noted we need
Congress to pass legislation that encourages and simplifies the
flow of information between the government and the private
sector.  Done right, information-sharing is the best way to keep our
clients protected and our companies enabled to defeat the most
critical threats. For example, last month, Microsoft Corp. and
the Federal Bureau of Investigation successfully coordinated the
global takedown of a ring that raided bank accounts around the
world and netted more than half a billion dollars.  Critics of information-sharing say that the practice raises
too many privacy concerns. These are unfounded: The industry
takes client privacy very seriously and only shares information
when absolutely necessary to address a threat. It also makes
every effort to keep shared data anonymous.  Ensuring Privacy  The reality is that we are dealing with attackers who have
no respect for privacy and will try to access and exploit client
information by any means. To not share threat information would
be like a citizen witnessing a robbery and not reporting it to
the police: Nobody gains.  Common-sense legislation would promote information-sharing,
update the criminal penalties associated with cyber-attacks, and
provide protections for companies that share information and
respond to malicious activity. Of course, legislation must also
ensure the privacy of information that flows between companies
and the government.  The government, the private sector and all Americans must
remain vigilant in the face of cyber-attacks. The time is right
for Congress to pass legislation that will ensure the resiliency
of the economy as we navigate this new frontier of criminal
activity.  (Judd Gregg, a former U.S. senator from New Hampshire, is
chief executive officer of the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Judd Gregg at  executiveoffice@sifma.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Paula Dwyer at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net . 