-- FlyDubai Says 50-Plane Order Is Boeing-Airbus ‘Open Race’
-- B y   D e e n a   K a m e l   Y o u s e f
-- 2013-07-04T11:39:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/flydubai-says-50-plane-order-is-boeing-airbus-open-race-.html
FlyDubai, which operates an all- Boeing Co. (BA)  fleet, said there’s an “open race” between the U.S.
manufacturer and European rival  Airbus SAS (EAD)  to supply it with 50
narrow-body aircraft worth $5 billion at list prices.  The discount carrier, which currently uses 30 Boeing 737s,
is considering the re-engined Boeing 737 Max and Airbus A320neo
models and plans to make a choice by November’s Dubai Air Show
at the latest, Chief Executive Officer Ghaith al-Ghaith said.  “We will choose what’s best for us and what’s best could
be a new type,” al-Ghaith said in an interview at the company’s
base in Dubai,  United Arab Emirates . “Both aircraft appeal to
us. The best decision is the one that costs us the least.”  Airbus stole a march by offering the Neo ahead of the Max
in late 2010. The A320 upgrade has since won more than 2,400
orders, giving it about 60 percent of the re-engined single-aisle market, with customers including Boeing operators such as
 American Airlines  and Turkish discount carrier Pegasus Airlines.  FlyDubai, which competes with Sharjah-based Air Arabia and
Jazeera Airways of  Kuwait  in the emerging Middle Eastern low-cost sector, aims eventually to grow its  network  to 100 cities
from 64, al-Ghaith said, adding that more planes are required to
meet capacity needs as outstanding deliveries near an end.  The carrier has 20 737-800s still to be added to the fleet
through early 2016 from a batch of 50 worth $3.74 billion
ordered at the Farnborough Air Show in 2008. Both the equivalent
Max 8 and the A320neo have a list price of about $100 million.  Market Potential  “We don’t have much time left to grow,” al-Ghaith said,
adding that the  Middle East  offers plenty of potential for
expansion. “We don’t have the same penetration in terms of
flights and links to the points close to our region like mature
markets. More airlines and more link-ups are required.”  Discount carriers would benefit from further open skies
accords between nations, giving access to new markets, as well
as an easing of visa restrictions and improved access to busy
destinations such as Cairo, the CEO said.  The carrier may issue a sukuk or Islamic bond to fund the
planned 50-aircraft purchase, though it could comfortably
finance the order from its own  cash flow , al-Ghaith said.  “The market is very positive about the U.A.E. and Dubai
and even more positive toward FlyDubai to lend us whatever
funding we need, so we don’t envision any issues,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deena Kamel Yousef in Dubai at 
 dhussein1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  