-- Formula One Drivers Threaten Boycott of German Grand Prix
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-07-04T19:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/formula-one-drivers-threaten-boycott-of-german-grand-prix.html
Formula One drivers today threatened
to pull out of the German Formula One Grand Prix on July 7 if
there’s a recurrence of the tire blowouts that marred the
British Grand Prix four days ago.  Mercedes driver  Lewis Hamilton  was leading from pole
position in front of his home crowd when his left rear tire
exploded on the eighth lap at Silverstone. Ferrari’s  Felipe Massa  and Toro Rosso’s Jean-Eric Vergne were among other drivers
who had similar problems.  Supplier  Pirelli & C. SpA (PC)  is modifying the tire composition
for the Nuerburgring race to strengthen the tires and combat the
problem.  Drivers said they’re ready to pull out of the race if
similar incidents occur again. The Grand Prix Drivers’
Association said its members wanted to express their “deepest
concerns” about the Silverstone events, and trust that the
modifications have the desired effect.  “However, the drivers have decided if similar problems
should manifest themselves during the German GP, we shall
immediately withdraw from the event, as this avoidable problem
with the tires endangers again the lives of drivers, marshals
and fans,” the GPDA said in a statement cited by the U.K.’s
Press Association.  Formula One’s governing body said this week it will allow
teams to test tires during a young drivers’ training session at
the home of the British Grand Prix as it tries to find a
solution to the blowouts.  Teams will be allowed to use more experienced drivers in
the young drivers' test, held July 17-19, in order to help
Pirelli improve the tires, the Federation Internationale de
l’Automobile, or FIA, said.  Pirelli,  Europe ’s third-largest tire maker, is the sole
tire supplier in Formula One.  The FIA didn’t immediately respond to a voicemail seeking
comment on the drivers’ statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  