-- Freshfields Revenue Rise Outperforms Allen & Overy
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-07-04T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/freshfields-revenue-rise-outperforms-allen-overy-linklaters.html
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP,
the  law firm  that advises the  Bank of England , increased revenue
by 7.2 percent to 1.22 billion pounds ($1.84 billion),
outperforming two of its competitors.  Linklaters LLP, another one of the largest London-based law
firms, said today that its revenue rose by 1 percent to 1.19
billion pounds in the last financial year. Allen & Overy LLP’s
earnings increased less than 1 percent to 1.19 billion pounds.  The firms, three of the largest in the world by revenue,
have been relying heavily on fees from litigation and regulatory
advice as restructuring, deal work and advice in  emerging
markets  slowed. Freshfields has the largest litigation practice
of the three firms by number of lawyers.  “Over the past six years we have worked hard at making our
offering across our practices, sectors and geographies as nimble
and flexible as possible to ensure we can adapt to changing
client demand,” Ted Burke, managing partner at Freshfields,
said in a statement. “These strong results demonstrate how this
approach is working.”  Freshfields’ profit per equity partner, a key measure of
law firm profitability, rose by 7.6 percent to 1.3 million
pounds during the last financial year, the firm said in a
statement. Partner profit at Linklaters rose by 5.6 percent to
1.3 million pounds.  Allen & Overy’s profit per partner was stable at 1.1
million pounds, the firm said yesterday. Clifford Chance LLP
hasn’t reported its earnings yet, and  Slaughter and May  don’t
publish their results. The five London-based firms are known
collectively as the Magic Circle, a term created by U.K. legal
trade publications.  Linklater’s revenue stagnated in the last financial year
because of “volatile” global markets, while African and Asian
markets continue to provide cause for optimism,  Simon Davies ,
the firm’s managing partner, said in a phone interview.  “Our clients continue to face a challenging market and we
have done our very best to serve them,” Davies said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  