-- Spanish Bonds Gain With Italy’s on Draghi’s Interest-Rate Pledge
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-07-04T15:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/german-bonds-fall-first-time-in-4-days-before-ecb-rate-decision.html
Spanish and Italian bonds led
advances in the euro area’s higher-yielding debt as the  European
Central Bank  took an unprecedented step of signaling  interest
rates  will be kept low for an extended period.  German notes also climbed, pushing two-year yields down to
the lowest in almost a month, as ECB President  Mario Draghi  said
the central bank has no plans to end its accommodative monetary
policy until economic recovery is assured. He was speaking at a
press conference in Frankfurt after the institution kept its key
 interest rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent. Portugal’s  10-year (GDBR10) 
yields dropped from near a seven-month high.  “Draghi surprised the market,” said Marius Daheim, a
senior fixed-income strategist at Bayerische Landesbank in
Munich. “The key sentence that rates would remain low for an
extended period of time has to some extent revived rate-cut
expectations, and at the very least, wiped out fears of a
removal of stimulus. Markets are rewarding that with price
gains.”  Spain ’s 10-year yields dropped 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to 4.65 percent at 4:38 p.m. London time. The
4.4 percent bond maturing in October 2023 climbed 0.92, or 9.20
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,293) face amount, to 97.99. The rate on
similar-maturity Italian securities decreased 11 basis points to
4.40 percent.  Euribor futures contracts climbed as investors added to
bets on lower inter-bank borrowing costs. The implied yield on
the contract expiring in June 2014 fell eight basis points to
0.4 percent.  ‘Extended Period’  “The Governing Council expects the key ECB interest rates
to remain at present or lower levels for an extended period of
time,” Draghi said. “The risks for the euro area continue to
be on the downside. Our monetary policy stance will remain
accommodative for as long as necessary.”  Draghi’s pledge to keep ECB policy accommodative contrasts
with recent commentary from the  Federal Reserve . Sovereign bond
yields around the world jumped last month when Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 19 the U.S. policy makers may start to
slow the pace of bond buying this year and end it in mid-2014 if
the economy meets the central bank’s projections.  That helped to push U.S. 10-year Treasury  yields  to the
most since August 2011 and their German equivalents to the
highest level since April 2012.  “Draghi did the right thing today by providing forward
guidance that rates will stay low for an extended period,” said
Soeren Moerch, head of fixed-income trading at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) 
in Copenhagen. “That will support  government bonds  in the euro
region, especially peripheral debt.”  German Yields  Germany ’s two-year note yield slid five basis points to
0.12 percent after reaching 0.08 percent, the lowest since June
6. The 10-year yield fell one basis point to 1.65 percent.  “It’s a very pragmatic policy the ECB are following and
they realize that, once one of the major central banks start to
openly discuss the removal of stimulus, then they have to manage
expectations very carefully,” said  Bayerische Landesbank ’s
Daheim.  Volatility on Portuguese bonds was the highest among euro-area markets today, followed by those of Italy and Belgium,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  Portugal’s 10-year bonds climbed as coalition partners
sought to heal a rift that threatened to bring down the
government. The 10-year yield fell 19 basis points to 7.27
percent after rising to 8.11 percent yesterday, the highest
since Nov. 21, on concern the resignation of two ministers will
derail attempts to implement austerity measures.  The nation’s  two-year notes  extended a decline, pushing the
yield up as much as 75 basis points to 5.79 percent, the highest
level since Nov. 19.  Spanish securities returned 5.3 percent  this year through
yesterday, according to the Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. German
bonds declined 1.3 percent and Portuguese securities lost 1.5
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  