-- German Stocks Rebound From Two-Day Decline Before ECB
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-07-04T08:04:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/german-stocks-rebound-from-two-day-decline-before-ecb.html
German stocks  rose, with the
benchmark  DAX (DAX)  Index rebounding from its biggest drop in more
than a week, as investors awaited the European Central Bank’s
interest-rate decision.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Continental AG (CON)  and  Daimler AG (DAI)  all advanced
at least 1.5 percent.  Celesio AG (CLS1)  lost 7.1 percent after
Jefferies Group LLC cut its recommendation for the drug
distributor. Commerzbank AG fell for a fourth day.  The DAX gained 0.6 percent to 7,878.79 at 9:59 a.m. in
Frankfurt. The gauge has  retreated 7.7 percent  since its all-time high on May 22, when the Federal Reserve signaled that it
may start to pare stimulus if the U.S. economy strengthens in
line with its forecasts. The broader HDAX Index rose 0.9
percent.  “We’re getting to the point where Draghi needs to put his
money where his mouth is,” Michael Hewson, a market analyst at
CMC Markets Plc in  London , told Mark Barton on Bloomberg
Television.  The ECB  will leave  its benchmark interest rate unchanged at
a record low of 0.5 percent today, according to 61 of 62
forecasts in a Bloomberg survey of economists. The central bank
will announce the decision at 1:45 p.m. in Frankfurt and
President Mario Draghi will address the press 45 minutes later.  Investors will watch Draghi’s comments on monetary policy
in the context of the debate surrounding the central bank’s
Outright Monetary Transactions plan. OMT is the ECB’s as-yet-unused pledge to buy the bonds of crisis-hit countries in the
euro area that sign up to reform conditions. Judges at the
German Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe are considering whether
the program contravenes the nation’s Basic Law.  The DAX dropped 1 percent yesterday as the leader of the
junior partner in Portugal’s two-party ruling coalition said
he’ll resign from the government. Paulo Portas, who is both
foreign minister and leader of the CDS party, will meet with
Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  in an attempt to hold the
coalition together. A CDS official said Portas will seek a
guarantee that his party can retain an influence on policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  