-- Gold Strike Dims Production Outlook at Top Colombia Miner
-- B y   A n d r e w   W i l l i s
-- 2013-07-04T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/gold-strike-dims-production-outlook-at-top-colombia-miner.html
Mineros SA (MINEROS) , the most resilient stock
among gold-mining peers this year, said it will cut output
estimates and revise profit forecasts after prices slumped and
as a strike at one of its Colombian mines enters an eighth week.  Workers at the underground La Ye mine in the country’s
northwest have been on strike since May 16, reducing output by
about 2,000 ounces a month, Chief Executive Officer Beatriz Uribe said yesterday in a telephone interview from Medellin. The
company’s 5.1 percent wage increase offer was rejected.  “We really don’t know what’s going to happen,” Uribe said
about the industrial dispute. “It’s in their hands to accept
the company’s offer. So far we’ve had a long silence.”  With inflation running at about 2 percent, the company’s
offer wasn’t enough, union official Alberto Solano said by
telephone from Barranquilla,  Colombia .  Mineros has weathered gold’s 25 percent plunge this year
better than 15 similar stocks tracked by Bloomberg. The shares
have lost 18 percent compared with a 46 percent peer-group
average. Before the strike, Mineros had forecast 2013 output of
123,000 ounces in Colombia, up from 118,000 ounces in 2012.
Colombia’s gold exports rose tenfold in the past five years,
overtaking coffee to become the top export after oil and coal.  Uribe declined to give the revised production estimate. The
company’s other operations in Colombia and  Nicaragua  are meeting
output targets, she said.  Gold futures for August delivery gained 0.7 percent to
settle at $1,251.90 an ounce in  New York  yesterday.  Batista Assets  Management is now assuming an average price of $1,200 over
the next two years and is studying cost-cutting measures to
allow for “an adequate level of profitability,” Uribe said.
The company plans to channel exploration spending into its most
developed projects, keeping others on “standby,” she said.  Mineros, Colombia’s biggest gold producer, agreed in March
to buy Nicaraguan miner Hemco and is still on the hunt for new
assets across  Latin America . Mineros would study the merits of
buying the AUX gold mining company controlled by Brazilian
billionaire  Eike Batista  if it became available, Uribe said.  “If he wants to sell assets in Colombia, we would be
interested,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Willis in Bogota at 
 awillis21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  