-- Gold Bulls Dominant as Portugal Stokes Debt Concern
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-07-05T15:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/gold-bulls-dominant-as-portugal-stokes-debt-concern-commodities.html
Gold traders are the most bullish in
a month after political instability in  Portugal  raised concern
that  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen and as a record quarterly
drop in prices drove demand for jewelry.  Fourteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect prices to
rise next week, with 10 bearish and three neutral, the largest
proportion of bulls since June 7. While  hedge funds  are the
least bullish in six years and holdings in exchange-traded
products dropped to a three-year low, demand for physical metal
has been “strong,” Standard Bank Group Ltd. said.  Gold slid 23 percent last quarter after some investors lost
faith in the metal as a store of value as the  Federal Reserve 
said it may taper stimulus. The slump into a  bear market  in
April spurred demand for jewelry and coins around the world, and
imports into  Turkey , the fourth-biggest consumer, expanded to a
4 1/2-year high. Prices advanced earlier this week as two
Portuguese ministers resigned, pushing the nation’s borrowing
costs to the highest in seven months.  “A recovery will be tentative initially but a return of
the euro zone debt crisis could spark a more sustainable
rally,” said Mark O’Byrne, the executive director of Dublin-based GoldCore Ltd., a brokerage that sells and stores bullion
coins and bars. “Many jewelers internationally are likely to
use the recent price falls as an opportunity to stock up.”  Gold Price  The metal fell 28 percent to $1,213.48 an ounce in  London 
this year, after 12 consecutive annual gains. Gold reached a 34-month low of $1,180.50 on June 28. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
gauge of 24 commodities declined 2.5 percent since the start of
January and the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities rose
5.1 percent. Treasuries lost 2.5 percent, a Bank of America
Corp. index shows.  Portugal’s 10-year bond  yield  surged above 8 percent on
July 3 for the first time since November after the resignations,
adding to speculation that a rift might hamper the government’s
ability to meet the terms of a European Union-led bailout.
Concern about a worsening debt crisis at a time when central
banks around the world increased stimulus measures helped push
gold to a record $1,921.15 in September 2011.  Crude oil rose above $100 a barrel this week for the first
time since September as the ouster of Egypt’s President Mohamed
Mursi fanned concern that unrest will disrupt Middle East
supply. Some investors judge that higher  oil prices  stoke
inflation and buy gold as a hedge. Expectations for consumer-price gains, as measured by the break-even rate for 10-year
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, rose 12 percent since
reaching a 20-month low on June 24.  Turkey’s Imports  Turkey’s bullion imports more than doubled to 45.5 metric
tons in April and held above 43 tons in May and June, the
longest run in data on the Istanbul Gold Exchange’s website
going back to 1995. Jewelry accounted for about 60 percent of
the country’s consumer demand for gold last year and made up 43
percent of global demand, according to the World Gold Council.  Rising premiums for gold in  China  signal strengthening
demand,  Standard Bank  said in a report July 3. The metal for
immediate delivery in China averaged about $37 more than the
London price since mid-June, Shanghai Gold Exchange data show.
It was about $21 before then. Premiums also rose in  India , in
part because the government imposed curbs on imports to trim the
trade deficit, Commerzbank AG said in a report yesterday.  Demand for gold coins is weakening. The  U.S. Mint  sold 19
percent fewer ounces of American Eagles in June than in May and
73 percent less than in April, its website shows.  Australia ’s
Perth Mint said its coin and bar sales dropped for a second
month in June, falling 47 percent.  ETP Holdings  Investors sold 595 tons from ETPs this year, erasing $60.9
billion from the value of holdings, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. They now own 2,036.9 tons, the least since May 2010. ETP
assets may fall another 500 tons, Dominic Schnider, head of
commodities research at UBS AG’s wealth-management unit in
 Singapore , said in a July 4 Bloomberg Television interview.  Analysts and traders surveyed by Bloomberg two weeks ago
had been the most bearish in 3 1/2 years after Fed Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  said the central bank may slow asset purchases this
year if the economy improves. The 10-year yield on Treasuries
reached a 22-month high on June 24.  Hedge funds and other large speculators held a net-long
position of 31,197 contracts as of June 25, the least since June
2007, and had a near-record number of short contracts betting on
a decline, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.
The scale of the bearish bets may magnify any rally as
speculators close out their wagers by buying back contracts,
Macquarie Group Ltd. said in a report July 1.  Break Even  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. says gold will reach $1,050 by the
end of 2014, Credit Suisse Group AG anticipates $1,150 in about
12 months and  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  sees a drop to $1,000 in three
months, taking prices below the level some mines need to break
even. Production cuts will be larger than most investors expect
and boost prices,  Mark Cutifani , the former head of  AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the third-biggest gold miner, said June 26.  Four of 10 people surveyed expect raw sugar to fall next
week and three were bullish. The commodity slid 16 percent to
16.30 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  this year.  Fifteen of 25 surveyed anticipate lower corn prices and six
said the grain will rise, while 13 of 24 said soybeans will fall
and 10 expect higher prices. Ten traders predicted declines in
wheat and seven were bullish. Corn dropped 29 percent to $4.9625
a bushel this year in  Chicago . The December contract, which
reflects supply after the U.S. harvest, is down 17 percent this
year. Soybeans fell 12 percent to $12.4325 a bushel, as wheat
slipped 15 percent to $6.6475 a bushel.  Three Months  Seven traders and analysts surveyed expect copper to drop
next week, six were bullish and one was neutral. The metal for
delivery in three months, the London Metal Exchange’s benchmark
contract, fell 15 percent to $6,753 a ton this year.  Investors should reduce their holdings in raw materials and
buy equities, UBS said in July 2 report, rating industrial
metals as “underweight” in part because of slower growth in
China. The bank joined Citigroup Inc. and Goldman Sachs in
calling an end to the commodities super cycle, or longer-than-average period of rising prices.  “A lot of negative sentiment toward commodities today is
based on poor performance over the past year or two relative to
equities,” said Nicholas Brooks, the head of research and
investment strategy at ETF Securities Ltd. in London. “Many
commodities are trading at or below the marginal cost of
production. It may not stop prices from falling in the short
term, but in the medium term rising costs will ultimately force
prices to move higher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  