-- Goldman Urges Japan Inc. Share Sales for Foreign Demand
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2013-07-04T05:42:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/goldman-urges-japan-inc-share-sales-backed-by-foreign-appetite.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the third-largest manager of Japanese equity offerings this year, is
urging companies to sell shares and meet renewed investor demand
for the nation’s stocks under Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.  Makoto Ito, co-head of the bank’s financing group in  Tokyo ,
plans to visit senior executives at more than 15 Japanese firms
this week to propose that they consider raising funds, he said
in an interview on July 1. Ito met global investors last week in
 Hong Kong  and  Singapore  who manage more than 100 trillion yen
($1 trillion) in assets, he said, declining to name any of the
companies or investors.  Dentsu Inc. (4324)  and  Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. (2587)  are among
Japanese companies that are funding expansion abroad by issuing
shares. The nation’s equity offerings more than quadrupled to
2.7 trillion yen in the first half of 2013, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Ito, who was pessimistic on the market after
stocks plunged since May, now says second-half sales will top
the 1.5 trillion yen raised in the same period last year.  “Global investors still have the appetite and a
constructive view of Japan even under turbulent and uncertain
circumstances,” Ito said after meeting with U.S. and Asian
sovereign funds,  hedge funds  and asset managers on June 27 and
28. “Japanese firms are becoming more decisive to raise funds
for investment and acquisitions for growth.”  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  sank as much as 20 percent
from a five-year high on May 22, closing yesterday 10 percent
lower than the peak. Even after the drop, Japan has outperformed
all major equity markets this year on optimism Abe’s three-pronged strategy of fiscal stimulus, monetary easing and
structural reforms will beat deflation and boost growth. The
stock average fell 0.2 percent as of 2:31 p.m. in Tokyo.  League Ranking  Goldman Sachs, which employs about 100 investment bankers
in Tokyo, has managed seven global equity deals in Japan this
year, including  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914) ’s $7.5 billion share sale,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It also worked on
Suntory Beverage’s initial public offering, valued at about $4
billion. The New York-based bank held a 16 percent share of the
Japanese market, the most in more than a decade, the data show.  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Japan’s largest brokerage, was ranked
No. 1 manager of equity sales in the country in the first half
of 2013, the data show. Daiwa Securities Group Inc. was second.  Dentsu Sale  Dentsu, the Japanese advertising company that bought
London-based Aegis Group Plc, said yesterday it will raise as
much as 120.1 billion yen in a public share sale to help pay for
the deal.  In the second half of last year,  Japan Airlines Corp. (9201) ,  ANA
Holdings Inc. (9202)  and Sony Corp. were among 81 Japanese companies
that sold equity-related securities.  Japanese markets have rallied on the back of unprecedented
monetary easing by the central bank and Abe’s $105 billion in
fiscal stimulus aimed at reversing 15 years of deflationary
malaise. The measures have also weakened the yen, improving the
earnings outlook for the country’s exporters.  AMP Capital Investors Ltd. (AMP) , a unit of Australia’s biggest
asset manager, resumed buying Japanese stocks in anticipation of
Abe successfully pushing through his reforms, Nader Naeimi, the
firm’s head of dynamic  asset allocation , said in an interview.
He forecasts equities in the country will rally as much as 20
percent by year’s end, and that the yen will slide to 110
against the dollar.  Signs that Japan’s economy is picking up is bolstering
sentiment among executives as well as investors, according to
Ito, who is head of equity capital markets in Tokyo.  Confidence (JNTSMFG) 
among large manufacturers climbed to a two-year high in June,
the Bank of Japan’s quarterly Tankan survey showed this week.  Reports last week showed  industrial production  rose the
most since 2011 in May, retail sales climbed and  consumer prices 
halted a six-month slide.  “The  equity capital markets  will become active once we’re
able to ride this jet stream,” Ito said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  