-- Google Ordered to Change Its Privacy Policy by U.K. Watchdog
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-07-04T15:58:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/google-ordered-to-change-its-privacy-policy-by-u-k-watchdog.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  must change its privacy
policy in line with U.K. data protection rules or it will face a
“formal enforcement action,” the country’s watchdog said in a
letter sent to the owner of the world’s most-used search engine.  Google failed to “provide sufficient information” to help
users understand how their data will be used by the company, and
“must now amend” its policy, the U.K. data protection
authority said today. The decision stems from coordinated action
that data privacy regulators across Europe announced in April.  “We have today written to Google to confirm our findings
relating to the update of the company’s privacy policy,” the
Information Commissioner’s Office said in a statement. “In our
letter we confirm that its updated privacy policy raises serious
questions about its compliance with the U.K. Data Protection
Act.”  Google faces probes across Europe over changes to harmonize
privacy policies for more than 60 products last year. Global
data-protection regulators last month wrote to the Mountain
View, California-based company urging Chief Executive Officer
 Larry Page  to contact them about possible issues with its web-enabled eyeglasses, called Google Glass.  “Our privacy policy respects European law and allows us to
create simpler, more effective services,” Al Verney, a
Brussels-based spokesman for Google, said by phone. “We have
engaged fully with the authorities involved throughout this
process and will continue to do so going forward.”  Data protection regulators from the 28-nation EU, that make
up the so-called  Article 29 Data Protection Working Party , wrote
to Google Chief Executive Officer Larry Page last October,
 saying the company  “empowers itself to collect vast amounts of
personal data about Internet users” without demonstrating that
this “collection was proportionate,” and asking the company to
bring its policy in line with EU rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  