-- Ibovespa Rises as ECB Rate Pledge Eases Growth Concern
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-07-04T21:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/ibovespa-futures-rise-as-ecb-rate-decision-eases-growth-concern.html
The Ibovespa  gained  for the first
time in five days as European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said interest rates will remain low for an extended
period, easing concern that the global recovery will falter.  MPX Energia SA (MPXE3)  rallied as founder  Eike Batista  quit as
chairman after  Germany ’s E.ON SE strengthened its control,
agreeing to invest 400 million reais in the energy company.
Batista’s oil producer  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA  rose
the most on the equity gauge today.  Tecnisa SA (TCSA3)  rebounded from a
five-month low after the homebuilder said sales booked in the
second quarter rose 135 percent to 555 million reais.  The Ibovespa rose 1.6 percent to 45,763.16 at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo. Fifty-five of the index’s 71 stocks
gained. Brazil’s main equity gauge has slumped 15 percent over
the past month and 25 percent this year, wiping out $282 billion
from the  value  of Brazilian equities, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “The Ibovespa is taking advantage of a more positive day
in the global markets, following Draghi’s remarks, to pare some
of the huge losses it’s capping this year,”  Alvaro Bandeira , a
partner at Orama Asset Management, said by phone from Rio de
Janeiro.  European stocks advanced as Draghi fleshed out the central
bank’s outlook for monetary policy after investors pushed up
long-term bond yields, threatening economic growth. U.S. markets
were closed for the Independence Day holiday. The real rose 0.9
percent to 2.2486 per dollar after the central bank intervened
in the foreign-exchange market.  ‘Up to Brazil’  “What you see now is that the world seems to be finally
overcoming the effects of the financial crisis of 2008, with
improvements especially in the United States and Europe,”
Rogerio Freitas, a partner at hedge fund Teorica Investimentos,
said by phone from Rio de Janeiro. “Now it’s up to  Brazil . This
underperformance we’ve seen lately was caused by the lack of
confidence that the government’s economic policy will be
successful in boosting growth.”  Brazil’s Ibovespa is the second-worst performer this year
after  Peru ’s Lima General index among 94 stock benchmarks
tracked by Bloomberg as concern mounts that accelerating
inflation will curb the economic recovery and amid speculation
that the government’s interventionist policies will hurt profits
in industries from utilities to energy.  Batista’s Companies  MPX jumped 10 percent to 7.11 reais. OGX gained 21 percent
to 47 centavos. Shipbuilder  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3)  fell 8.7 percent to
1.05 reais after earlier rising as much as 10 percent. Batista
is considering shutting down OSX and selling production
platforms to raise cash, according to a person with direct
knowledge of the plan who asked not to be named because the
discussion is private. OSX said in an e-mail it has no plans to
close the shipyard.  Tecnisa advanced 4 percent to 7.85 reais. Iron-ore producer
Vale SA jumped 3.7 percent to 26.97 reais, its biggest one-day
advance in three weeks.  Brazil’s benchmark stock measure trades at 11.3 times
analysts’  earnings estimates  for the next four quarters,
compared with 9.8 for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index of 21
developing nations’ equities. Trading volume for stocks in Sao
Paulo was 4.66 billion reais today, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That compares with a daily average of 7.91 billion
reais this year through July 2, according to data  compiled  by
the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  