-- Milling Wheat Rises in Paris on Speculation of Demand Rebound
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-07-04T10:14:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/milling-wheat-rises-in-paris-on-speculation-of-demand-rebound.html
Milling wheat futures rose for a
second day in Paris on signs demand for grain is increasing
after prices tumbled. Agriculture markets were closed on the
Chicago Board of Trade for  Independence Day .  China , the world’s biggest wheat consumer, bought 360,000
metric tons from the U.S. in a sale reported yesterday, the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said. China’s wheat imports will climb
to 4 million tons in 2013-14 from 3 million tons a year earlier,
the USDA’s  Foreign Agricultural Service  said. On July 2, Paris
wheat fell to the lowest since March 2012 on signs world
supplies will rebound as the Northern Hemisphere harvest starts.  “Rumors circulated that French wheat may also figure into
Chinese business,” supporting prices in Paris, Jaime Nolan-Miralles, a commodity risk manager at INTL FCStone Inc. in
Dublin, said in an e-mailed report today.  Milling wheat for November delivery rose 0.6 percent to 196
euros ($255) a ton on NYSE Liffe in Paris by 12 p.m. in the
French capital, extending yesterday’s 0.8 percent increase. The
most-active contract is still down 21 percent this year. Global
wheat  production  may be a record 704 million tons, the
Agricultural Market Information System said today, raising its
outlook from a previous forecast of 702 million tons.  Prices also gained this week after  Egypt , the world’s
biggest wheat importer, issued its first tender to buy the grain
since February. The North African country purchased 180,000 tons
of Romanian and Ukrainian supplies on July 2. Egypt swore in
Adly Mansour as a military-appointed interim president today
after Mohamed Mursi, the first democratically elected civilian
leader, was ousted amid mass protests and political upheaval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  