-- IMF Sees Bulgarian Risk in Unstable Government, Euro Area
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-07-04T13:14:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/imf-sees-bulgarian-risk-in-unstable-government-euro-area.html
Bulgaria faces a fragile economic
recovery as its month-old government struggles to appease
continuous mass protests, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Economic growth is estimated “to improve only slightly”
this year from a subdued rate in 2012 and unemployment remains
“unacceptably high,” the IMF said in an a report at the end of
a regular review. Exports have increased and inflation has
declined and “is expected to remain low,” the IMF said.  “The new government’s intention to maintain macroeconomic
policy continuity, to increase protection for the most
vulnerable in society, and to address key structural rigidities
is welcome,” the IMF said. “Risks to the outlook include the
uncertainties in the euro area and the domestic political
situation.”  The Cabinet of Prime Minister Plamen Oresharski took office
on May 29 after anti-austerity protests forced out his
predecessor, Boyko Borissov, leading to a May 12 snap election.
An appointment of controversial media and business executive
Delyan Peevski as head of the State Agency for National Security
sparked nationwide demonstrations on June 14, forcing Peevski to
resign on the next day.  The protests have since escalated into anti-government
marches and are set to continue this evening. Government
opponents carrying placards saying “Mafia out of Parliament”
blocked central street crossings in the capital Sofia today,
demanding a new government.  ‘Unsettled’ Situation  “Despite the unsettled political situation, hard-earned
macroeconomic and financial stability -— which has helped to
insulate  Bulgaria  from the severest effects of the global crisis
—- has been maintained,” the IMF said.  The yield on Bulgaria’s euro-denominated bonds maturing in
2017 fell 2 basis points 2.178 percent at 3:15 p.m. in Sofia
today. The cost of insuring the country’s debt against non-payment for five years using credit-default swaps rose eight
basis points from today to 107.84  Bulgaria survived the global financial crisis without an
international bailout, imposing strict spending cuts. The IMF
cut Bulgaria’s economic growth estimate for this year to 1.2
percent in April from 1.9 percent. The interim government in
April forecast this year’s growth at 1 percent. Unemployment
fell in May to 11 percent from 11.6 percent in the previous
month.  Oresharski’s plan to revise this year’s budget and increase
wages, social benefits and cover outstanding public order
payments to companies is “welcome,” the IMF said. It urged the
government to improve revenue collection and keep the deficit
within this year’s target of 1.3 percent of gross domestic
product.  The revision, which is still being prepared, is estimated
to widen the budget gap to 2 percent of GDP, Capital newspaper
reported yesterday, citing preliminary figures.  Non-performing loans, which at 16.9 percent of total loans
on a gross basis “have stabilized and are well-provisioned,
should continue to be addressed,” the IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  