-- Lisicki Follows Graf Into Wimbledon Final With Bartoli
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-07-04T18:50:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/lisicki-beats-radwanska-to-set-up-wimbledon-final-with-bartoli.html
Sabine Lisicki came back from a break
down in the final set to become the first German woman since
Steffi Graf to reach the Wimbledon tennis final.  Lisicki overcame Agnieszka Radwanska 6-4, 2-6, 9-7 on
Centre Court at the All England Club. She’ll play  France ’s
Marion Bartoli, runner-up to Venus Williams in 2007, for the
title in two days. Lisicki has beaten Bartoli three times in
four matches.  Graf, who won seven Wimbledon singles titles, reached her
last championship match in  London  in 1999, when she lost to
Lindsay Davenport. Her win at Roland Garros in the same season
is the last major singles title for a German woman.  Lisicki, who was nine years old when Graf lost to
Davenport, received a text message from the 22-time major
singles champion yesterday “wishing me luck before the match”
she said in a news conference.  “She told me to go for it, and I’m just so happy,”
Lisicki, 23, said. “I was just fighting for every single point
out there. Fought my heart out there.”  The No. 23 seed fired 60 winners, including nine aces, past
the fourth-seeded Radwanska, who produced 21 winners and only
once ace. Just as in her fourth-round upset of defending
champion Serena Williams, Lisicki fought back from 0-3 in the
third set to win.  “I had a lot of chances, I was two points from the
match,” Radwanska, last year’s runner-up, said in a news
conference. “And then she served second serves of over 100
miles-per-hour. It was close.”  One-Sided  The first semifinal was more one-sided, with the 15th-seeded Bartoli beating  Belgium ’s No. 20 Kirsten Flipkens 6-1,
6-2. Flipkens received treatment on her knee during the match
and told the trainer she was struggling to “push off on my
serve.”  Bartoli hasn’t beaten anyone seeded higher than No. 17 on
the run to her second Wimbledon final. The men’s and women’s
draws had lost half of the players in the top 10 -- including
former champion Maria Sharapova of  Russia  and Australian Open
winner Victoria Azarenka of Belarus -- after the second round
due to injuries and defeats.  “I played so great,” Bartoli, 28, said. “Today I saw the
ball like a football. I was hitting the ball very cleanly from
the start, straight away. Everything was working perfectly, to
do that in a semifinal at Wimbledon on Centre Court is an
amazing feeling.”  Bartoli produced 23 winners, including five aces, while
former junior Wimbledon champion Flipkens had 10 winners
including six aces.  First Semifinal  Flipkens’s run to her first major semifinal came 15 months
after she was diagnosed with life-threatening blood clots in her
legs. Ranked outside of the top 250, she couldn’t even enter
last year’s Wimbledon qualifying tournament while she struggled
for sponsors after her funding from the Flemish tennis
association was taken away.  “I think the semis was the maximum I could go to this
year,” Flipkens said. “I had to play, I don’t know, 500
percent to beat Marion today. She was just too good. To have
this memory for the rest of my life, 10 years after winning the
juniors title here, is great. I would have signed for that
before my career for sure.”  Shorten Points  The semifinal between Lisicki and Radwanska was a match
between power and finesse, with the Pole absorbing the pace of
her opponent’s ground strokes with slice and sharp angles.  In the first set, Lisicki tried to shorten the points by
frequently rushing to the net off a powerful serve.  Serving at 3-3, Radwanska fought off three break points
before she was unable to redirect a volley off a net cord back
inside the court. Lisicki saved a break point at 5-4 before
taking the first set with a well-placed serve out wide to
Radwanska’s backhand, followed by a forehand winner.  At 2-3 down in the second, Lisicki lost six consecutive
games as she struggled to get a first serve in and her ground
strokes frequently sailed long.  “I was fully concentrated in the first set, and then lost
some focus in the second,” Lisicki said. “But I recovered
again in the third.”  In the final set, Radwanska set up a break point for 2-0 as
she managed to get a return back off a 116 mile-per-hour serve
that landed on the line in Lisicki’s backhand corner.  Lisicki was forced to play a defensive backhand and dumped
the ball in the net on the next shot. Radwanska seemed in
control as she led 3-0, only for Lisicki to go on the attack and
level at 3-3 with a forehand cross-court.  Break Point  After breaking for a 5-4 lead, Lisicki served for her first
Grand Slam final. Instead, Radwanska won the game, converting
her fourth break point as she drew an error on a net approach.  Play went with serve until 7-7, when Radwanska dropped
serve on a volley error. Serving for the second time for a place
in the final, Lisicki didn’t falter, clinching victory on her
second match point with a forehand winner. She fell on the grass
to celebrate, then got up to shake hands with Radwanska before
sinking to her knees again at the net.  “I definitely am disappointed,” Radwanska said. “When
you went that far to the semis, no Serena, Maria, Victoria.
Those girls are still playing great tennis, but it’s a little
bit different.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Wimbledon at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  