-- Israeli Billionaire Ofer Makes Gift to Expand Tate Modern
-- B y   D e v o n   P e n d l e t o n
-- 2013-07-04T14:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/israeli-billionaire-ofer-makes-gift-to-expand-tate-modern.html
Israeli shipping billionaire Eyal Ofer has donated 10 million pounds ($15.2 million) to the Tate
Modern of  London , helping to fund the biggest expansion in the
museum’s 13-year history.  The gift from the Eyal Ofer Family Foundation continues the
family’s history of supporting U.K. institutions started by his
father, Sammy Ofer, and will help bankroll a new building that
will increase the museum’s size by 60 percent. The new structure
will house contemporary visual works, such as photography and
performance art.  “It is exciting to see such outstanding philanthropy
continuing from one generation to the next,” Nicholas Serota,
director of the Tate said in a written statement. “The
generosity of Eyal Ofer and his family will help to make the
Tate Modern a truly twenty-first century museum.”  Ofer, 63, is  Israel ’s second-richest man, with a fortune
valued at $5.9 billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index . With his younger brother Idan, he owns one of the world’s
largest closely held shipping companies, Sammy Ofer Group
Monaco, whose vessels are operated by London-based fleet manager
Zodiac Maritime Agencies.  The billionaire also owns commercial real estate properties
in  Europe , Israel and the U.S., including a stake in  Manhattan ’s
luxury condominium building, 15 Central Park West, and homes in
 Monte Carlo , London and New York. After Sammy Ofer’s death in
2011, his assets were evenly divided between Eyal and his
brother, who has a fortune valued at $5.6 billion.  Family Tradition  Sammy Ofer, who established the family’s ties to the U.K.
when he joined the Royal Navy at the start of World War II,
donated 20 million pounds to build a new wing at London’s
National Maritime Museum, in 2008. He also funded the
restoration of the British clipper ship, the Cutty Sark, that
same year.  Last year, Eyal continued the family tradition of
supporting British cultural institutions when he contributed an
undisclosed amount to the commissioning of the royal barge
Gloriana, which led the boat processional in the Queen’s Diamond
Jubilee.  The Tate Modern , which occupies a converted power facility
on the south bank of London’s Thames River, announced that plans
were approved for the new building in 2009. It has raised 85
percent of the 215 million pounds needed for the expansion and,
in recognition of Ofer’s donation, will name one of its
exhibition suites the Eyal Ofer Galleries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devon Pendleton in  New York  at 
 dpendleton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  