-- Italy’s Economic Recovery Still Faces Headwinds, IMF Review Says
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2013-07-04T15:28:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/italy-s-economic-recovery-still-faces-headwinds-imf-review-says.html
Italian prime Minister Enrico Letta
still faces an uphill battle in helping his country exit its
longest recession in more than two decades, the International
Monetary Fund said.  The euro region’s third-largest economy “is showing signs
of stabilizing, but strong headwinds are still holding back the
recovery,” the Washington-based lender said today in a report.
“Growth prospects remain weak, unemployment is unacceptably
high, and market sentiment is still fragile.”  The IMF downgraded its growth outlook for  Italy  this year,
saying gross domestic product will shrink 1.8 percent, compared
with its April forecast of 1.5 percent. The economy will expand
0.7 percent in 2014, up from its previous estimate of 0.5
percent.  While austerity measures passed by Letta’s predecessor,
Mario Monti, allowed Italy to reduce its deficit to within
European Union limits, they also deepened the nation’s slump.
With the economy headed for its eighth quarter of contraction
and joblessness at its highest since at least 1977, Letta’s
cabinet decided last month to postpone a scheduled sales-tax
increase and the payment of a property tax.  “Italy’s growth prospects over the medium term will
strengthen only with the implementation of comprehensive
reforms,” the IMF said. Raising employment and improving
productivity and competitiveness are among key issues that need
to be addressed, according to the report.  Rule Change  The Brussels-based European Commission gave the country a
helping hand yesterday when it further eased euro-zone deficit
constraints. Amid longstanding demands from countries including
Italy, EC President Jose Barroso said some investments in
transport, energy and other types of infrastructure won’t be
counted as deficit spending in 2013 and 2014.  The IMF said Italy is set to reach its target of structural
balance this year after “achieving one of the highest primary
surpluses in the euro area last year.”  Still, any measures by the bearer of Europe’s second-biggest debt load must take into account strict budget
constraints. Italy needs to issue a monthly average of 40
billion euros ($51.7 billion) in government securities to
finance its debt, Finance Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni told
lawmakers in  Rome  yesterday.  The country needs stronger budget institutions and binding
multi-year expenditure ceilings to help enhance credibility, the
IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  