-- Judge Mansour Becomes Egypt’s Fourth Leader Since 2011
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2013-07-04T09:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/judge-mansour-becomes-egypt-s-fourth-leader-since-2011.html
Adly Mansour, a 67-year-old Supreme
Court justice, served two days as the constitutional court’s
head before he was named  Egypt ’s interim president.  Mansour, who was deputy to the head of the court from 1992
until last month, was chosen to lead the country after the army
yesterday removed President Mohamed Mursi, the nation’s first
democratically elected civilian president. Mansour, the
representative of an Egyptian judiciary that has repeatedly
clashed with Mursi, was sworn in today.  The anti-Mursi protests have united the Egyptian people,
Mansour said after he took the oath of office today. He saluted
what he termed the bravery of Egypt’s youth and the armed
forces, saying that the police have realized their place is on
the side of the public. He looks forward to the presidential
elections, he said.  A bespectacled father-of-three, Mansour studied for
postgraduate degrees at Cairo University’s Faculty of Law before
beginning his career in 1970 as an assistant representative at
the State Council, a judicial body that resolved disputes
between individuals and government agencies, according to his
biography on the Supreme Constitutional Court’s website. Mansour
won a scholarship to attend  France ’s Ecole Nationale de
l’Administration, according to  Al Jazeera .  Constitution Suspended  The judge becomes the fourth man to lead the Arab world’s
most populous nation since 2011.  Hosni Mubarak  served as
president for about three decades before the army stripped him
of his powers two years ago following a popular uprising. He was
replaced by the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, led by
Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi. It handed power to Mursi,
a member of once-banned Islamist group the Muslim Brotherhood,
who held office for a year before the army stepped in again.  The army temporarily suspended the constitution late
yesterday and removed Mursi, the culmination of a campaign of
street protests aimed at the Muslim Brotherhood and the
president it helped elect.  Defense Minister Abdelfatah al-Seesi, who was  promoted  to
the post by Mursi in August, announced in a televised broadcast
that an early presidential election would be held after Mursi
failed to meet the terms of the military’s 48-hour ultimatum,
issued on July 1, to end a political impasse. Mursi called it a
coup.  Mursi’s election last year was seen as a litmus test for
Egypt -- a chance to break free from a six-decade legacy in
which successive Egyptian leaders were drawn from the officer
corps. Whatever goodwill he found upon winning the election
quickly dissipated, as his critics argued he was more intent on
cementing the power of the Muslim Brotherhood than in righting
the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  