-- Nelson Mandela in Critical Condition as Family Feuds
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-07-04T11:57:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/nelson-mandela-in-critical-condition-as-family-feuds.html
Nelson Mandela remains in a critical,
yet stable condition in a Pretoria hospital to treat a recurring
lung infection as his family feuds over the burial site of his
children.  Mandela’s grandson, Mandla, thanked the medical staff who
have been treating the nation’s first black president since June
8 and people who have prayed for the 94-year-old’s recovery,
according to comments broadcast on eNCA News. Mandla spoke a day
after losing a court bid to stop his relatives moving the
remains of three family members to Mandela’s home village of
Qunu from Mvezo, where Mandla is a chief.  “My grandfather continues to be stable while in a critical
state,” Mandla said. “We can hope and focus on his speedy
recovery. At this hour, the focus is on what matters the most,
being with my grandfather.”  Mandela, who spent 27 years in prison for opposing
minority, all-white rule, has been hospitalized four times since
December. He won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1993 for peaceful
opposition to apartheid and became the country’s president a
year later when the African National Congress won the first all-race elections. Mandela stepped down after a five-year term.  Mandela is “sometimes uncomfortable, sometimes he is in
pain, but he is fine,” his wife Graca Machel said, EWN reported
today. President Jacob Zuma said in an e-mailed statement
Mandela is receiving the “best medical care” after visiting
him today.  Mandla is in a dispute with other family members over where
the bodies of the Mandelas should be buried. The remains of
three of Mandela’s children from his first marriage were exhumed
yesterday and will be reburied in Qunu, eNCA reported. Other
family members say Mandla moved the bodies to Mvezo without
their knowledge in 2011, according to City Press newspaper.  Mandela Trust  Some of his relatives are using the graves to punish him
for not siding with them in a lawsuit to remove lawyers George
Bizos and Bally Chuene and Human Settlements Minister Tokyo Sexwale as directors of two companies Mandela set up, Mandla
said today.  Makaziwe Mandela and Zenani Dlamini, two of Mandela’s
daughters, have said that the directors “no longer enjoy the
support of almost all the beneficiaries” of the Mandela Trust
that owns the companies, according to court papers.  The daughters want the directors to quit “to facilitate
the distribution of monies in those two companies’ bank accounts
to them and other family members,” Cheune wrote in response.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  