-- New Coronavirus Is Less Transmissible Than SARS in Study
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-07-05T13:56:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/new-coronavirus-is-less-transmissible-than-sars-in-study.html
The new coronavirus that has killed
42 people since September, most of them in Saudi Arabia, is less
transmissible than the related SARS virus and probably won’t
touch off a pandemic, a study found.  Researchers from  France ’s Pasteur Institute analyzed
clusters of infections involving 55 of the first 64 cases of
Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus, or MERS-CoV, and
calculated that each case resulted in an average of 0.69
subsequent infections, compared with 0.8 for the SARS virus. The
findings were  published  in The Lancet today.  The previously unknown virus has sickened 79 people,
according to the  World Health Organization , which said today it
will convene a committee of experts next week to decide whether
the new virus poses a public health emergency of international
concern.  “Given the overall pattern where we’re seeing steady
cases, and where we don’t know what the future brings, what we
just want to make sure is that we can move as quickly as
possible if we need to,” Keiji Fukuda, the WHO’s assistant
director-general for health security and environment, said at a
briefing in Geneva today. “We’re not in the midst of any acute
event right now.”  The committee, which will meet via teleconference July 9
and again on July 11 if necessary, will involve external experts
who will assess information on the outbreak and advise the
Geneva-based WHO on whether it needs to make any further
recommendations about the risk posed by the virus, Fukuda said.  Swine Flu  It’s only the second time the committee has been convened,
after the H1N1 swine flu pandemic of 2009, Fukuda said. The WHO
will announce the names of the committee members on July 8, he
said.  Health officials still don’t know where the virus came from
or how it’s being transmitted, Fukuda said. Identifying the
source should be a “high priority” that focuses on animals
known to host coronaviruses, including bats, birds, mice, dogs,
pigs and cattle, researchers led by  Arnaud Fontanet , a professor
of epidemiology, wrote in today’s study.  “MERS-CoV has not spread as rapidly or as widely as SARS
did,” Fontanet said in an e-mailed statement. “SARS’s adaption
to humans took just several months, whereas MERS-CoV has already
been circulating more than a year in human populations without
mutating into a pandemic form.”  ‘Missing Data’  Cases in the U.K., France,  Germany  and  Italy  have raised
concern it may develop into a global pandemic like SARS, which
killed 774 people a decade ago and caused almost $40 billion in
economic losses.  “The most important missing data is where the virus is
coming from, as once that is known even these few cases should
be largely avoidable,”  Ian Jones , a professor of virology at
the University of Reading, said in a statement.  The virus may be more transmissible than estimated if there
are many more undetected mild cases, the researchers cautioned.
One patient hospitalized in the U.K. died June 28 from severe
respiratory illness, Guy’s and St Thomas’s NHS Foundation Trust
said in a statement yesterday.  Saudi Arabia hasn’t reported a new case since June 23,
after finding 26 cases in the previous month. Thousands of other
people who have had contact with those infected have tested
negative for the virus, suggesting it’s not easily
transmissible, the WHO has said.  Still, MERS-CoV does spread easily in hospitals, according
to a study in the New England Journal of Medicine last month.
One patient at a hospital in  Saudi Arabia ’s eastern al-Ahsa
region contaminated six others who were receiving dialysis in
the same ward at the same time, the study found.  “The authors have done their best to predict how MERS will
spread based on the few cases that we know about, and found that
the virus appears to be slowly dying out,” Benjamin Neuman,
from the University of Reading’s Microbiology Research Group,
said in a statement. “But other work has shown that the virus
is changing, and that change makes it difficult to predict the
future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  