-- Nifty Futures Signal Stocks May Rally From Worst Loss in 2 Weeks
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-07-04T02:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/nifty-futures-signal-stocks-may-rally-from-worst-loss-in-2-weeks.html
Indian stock-index futures gained,
signaling benchmark indexes may rally from the biggest decline
in two weeks.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for July delivery rose 0.2
percent to 5,783 at 10:40 a.m. in Singapore. The underlying CNX
 Nifty (NIFTY)  Index fell 1.5 percent to 5,770.90 yesterday, the largest
loss since June 20. The S&P BSE Sensex lost 1.5 percent. The
Bank of  New York  Mellon India ADR Index of U.S.-traded shares
dropped 0.9 percent.  Asian stocks outside Japan rose after better-than-estimated
U.S. jobs data added to signs of recovery in the world’s largest
economy, boosting the earnings outlook for exporters. The U.S.
accounted for 11 percent of India’s exports in the year ended
March 2012, government data show. Indian stocks dropped
yesterday amid concern the central bank will have less room to
cut  interest rates  as  oil prices  climb to near a 14-month high
and the rupee weakens.  “The global news flow is positive and that’s the reason
why futures are up,”  Arun Kejriwal , director at Kejriwal
Research & Investment Services, said by phone from Mumbai today.
“But we don’t see it sustaining today as the rupee is likely to
be under pressure because of the government’s move on  food
security . The concern is that our deficits will widen and it
shows the government has already started preparing for next
year’s election.”  Weakening Currency  India’s cabinet enacted proposals yesterday to expand the
provision of cheap food to the poor, approving a rarely used
executive ordinance to pursue a central plank of the
government’s re-election strategy with a national ballot due
before the end of May.  The government may spend about 1.25 trillion rupees ($20.7
billion) on food payments in the financial year ending March 31,
2014. Subsidies have helped widen the nation’s fiscal deficit
amid the weakest economic growth in a decade.  India’s current-account imbalance, the broadest gauge of
trade, is the biggest risk to an economy that grew a decade-low
5 percent in the year ended March, according to the central
bank. The  International Monetary Fund  estimates the gap at 4.9
percent of gross domestic product this year, compared with 3.3
percent in Indonesia and a surplus of 2.6 percent in China.  The rupee weakened to within 0.9 percent of its all-time
low yesterday on concern overseas investors will pull more money
from local assets, leaving the currency vulnerable to a record
current-account deficit.  Foreign Flows  Foreign investors withdrew the most money from  Indian (SENSEX) 
stocks in June in about two years on concern the nation’s public
finances will worsen when the U.S. Federal Reserve starts
tapering monetary stimulus.  Overseas funds sold a net $1.1 million of Indian stocks on
July 2, according to data from the market regulator, paring this
year’s  net inflow  to $13.5 billion, a record for the period.  The Sensex has retreated 5.5 percent since climbing to a
two-year high on May 17 as the prospect of reduced monetary
easing by the U.S. prompted global investors to pull money from
 emerging markets . The gauge is valued at 12.8 times projected
12-month earnings, compared with the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index’s 9.5 times.  Shares of  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , India’s biggest engineering
company, may be active after Reuters reported the company got a
contract for a $352 million road project in Oman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  