-- N. Korea Agrees to Talks With South on Shuttered Industrial Zone
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-07-04T14:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/north-korea-will-allow-south-to-visit-shuttered-industrial-zone.html
North Korea agreed to hold working-level talks with  South Korea  this weekend on a jointly-run
industrial zone it closed in April, as the totalitarian state
moderates its bellicose rhetoric of earlier this year.  The North also restored a border hot line and has said it
will allow South Korean businessmen to visit the factory park.  North and South Korea held a call over the hot line at 9
a.m. after agreeing yesterday to resume communication, South
Korea’s Unification Ministry said in a text message. In a
separate text message later today the ministry said the North
had agreed to an offer to hold working-level talks on July 6.
That meeting would take place at the north end of the Panmunjom
border village.  Those moves signal a further softening of leader Kim Jong Un’s stance after the North conducted a nuclear weapons test in
February and threatened atomic strikes against the U.S. and
South Korea. Kim’s regime has sent envoys to  China  and Russia
and proposed new talks with the U.S.  The North withdrew its workers from the Gaeseong industrial
zone in April to protest United Nations sanctions and U.S.-South
Korean military drills. It requested talks with the South last
month on reopening Gaeseong although scrapped that offer five
days later over a protocol dispute.  The North will let South Korean executives visit Gaeseong
to discuss how to respond if summer rains damage facilities
there, the Unification Ministry said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. Ministry spokesman Kim Hyung Suk said at a briefing
earlier today the working-level talks would address issues such
as normalizing relations at Gaeseong and allowing South Korean
businesses to retrieve completed products.  “There is room for talks to evolve into discussing issues
beyond Gaeseong if  North Korea  approaches these efforts for
dialogue with sincerity,” Kim said.  Panmunjom Message  In a statement delivered via the Panmunjom hot line
yesterday at 5 p.m., the North pledged to cooperate in arranging
a visit. South Korean officials may join the businessmen for
“necessary negotiations,” the ministry said.  The executives want to visit Gaeseong on July 9, according
to an e-mailed statement today from the association of companies
operating in the complex.  Closing Gaeseong deprived the impoverished state of a
source of much-needed hard currency. The North has also come
under pressure from China, its main diplomatic and economic
backer, which has tightened enforcement of UN sanctions
targeting financial transactions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  