-- Number of Canadian Securities Firms Lowest in 7 Years
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-07-04T17:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/number-of-canadian-securities-firms-lowest-in-7-years.html
The number of securities firms and
employees in Canada shrunk to the lowest level in at least seven
years as a  capital markets  slump sapped smaller brokerages of
revenue, according to statistics from the  Investment Industry
Association of Canada .  Canada had 192 securities firms employing 39,380 people in
the first quarter, down from 198 firms with 40,215 employees in
the year-earlier period, the association said today in a report.
That’s the lowest level since at least 2006, when the country
had 198 firms employing 39,419 people.  “The industry has gone through a period of sustained
weakness, which means firms are retrenching operations or
actually restructuring,” Ian Russell, the association’s chief
executive officer, said today in a telephone interview. “We’re
going to see a continuation of that trend, probably through much
of the remainder of the year.”  Canadian brokerages have been hit by reduced trading, stock
sales and takeovers among resource companies, sapping revenue
for those securities firms that rely on doing deals for mining
and energy companies.  Casimir Capital Ltd.’s Adam Thomas said yesterday employees
are buying 75 percent of the investment bank in  Canada  and will
focus on the oil-and-natural gas industry while cutting jobs in
its mining group. Casimir fired about 18 people across offices
in Toronto, Calgary,  New York  and  London , including a
“significant chunk” of its mining group, said Thomas, who will
be president and CEO of the Canadian entity.  Retail Brokerages  Smaller retail brokers have been hardest hit, as their
investment banking revenue plunged by about a third from a year
ago, according to IIAC statistics. A total 100 firms -- eight
fewer than a year ago -- collectively had C$595 million ($566
million) in operating revenue and posted C$61 million in
operating profit for the quarter, the association said.  Firms that serve institutional investors saw lower
commissions and investment banking revenue, which tempered
surging revenue from fixed-income and equity trading. A total 81
firms, which collectively shared C$578 million of revenue, had
C$252 million in operating profit, down 16 percent from a year
ago, the data show.  In comparison, Canada’s 11 larger integrated firms, which
include those owned by the country’s six-largest lenders,
generated C$3.19 billion in revenue between them and saw
operating profit rise 14 percent to C$1.08 billion, according to
IIAC.  “There are indications that we are beginning to see at
least some modest improvements here through the rest of the
year,” Russell said. “The retail business will pick up and
sooner or later commodity markets are going to turn, and that
will benefit Canadian markets.”  Trading Volume  Trading volume on the Toronto Stock Exchange for the first
half fell 10 percent, while trading on the  TSX Venture Exchange ,
the bourse dominated by junior resource companies, plunged 23
percent from a year ago, according to  TMX Group Ltd. (X)  monthly
data released yesterday.  Equity financings in Canada for the first six months of the
year declined 17 percent to $12.8 billion compared with the
first half of 2012, according to Bloomberg data. Announced
takeovers involving a Canadian company plunged 26 percent to
$73.6 billion for the period.  More than a third of Canada’s so-called boutique firms had
been losing money in the past two years, the IIAC estimated in
April. Canada’s smaller firms saw revenue shrink by about a
third to C$4 billion in 2012, down C$1.7 billion from 2006-2007
highs, mainly from falling brokerage commissions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  