-- Hong Kong Stock Fall May Boost Sales of Accumulators, PwC Says
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2013-07-04T05:46:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/hong-kong-stock-fall-may-boost-sales-of-accumulators-pwc-says.html
Declines in  Hong Kong ’s stocks
recently may prompt investors to buy a risky type of structured
product known as an accumulator to capitalize on any eventual
rebound in share prices, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers.  Most accumulators, which effectively involve investors
selling put options, in Hong Kong are tied to the city’s stocks,
according to Chern Lu, head of market risk management for  Asia 
at PwC. The company provides advisory services in areas
including derivatives and structured products. The  Hang Seng
Index  has dropped 9.6 percent in the last two months to
20,501.19 as of 12:05 p.m. in Hong Kong today.  Investors may “buy at this dip, then wait for the market
to rebound, and pocket the easy money,” Lu wrote in an e-mailed
response to questions yesterday.  Accumulators mandate the holders periodically buy a certain
amount of the underlying stocks at set prices, typically at
discounts, usually over one year or less. While rises would
benefit holders, Lu warned the contracts are sometimes called
“kill you later” investments in Hong Kong because the buyers
can suffer losses at maturity if stocks plunge.  Generally, the sellers of accumulators can redeem them
before their maturities if the linked shares climb beyond a
certain level, limiting gains for the holders. Conversely,
losses for the investors can snowball because some contracts
force them to purchase multiple times the specified amounts of
equities when the stocks fall.  “Accumulators are very risky derivative products,” Lu
said. “The investor’s gain is capped at a certain level but the
extent of his financial loss is bottomless, which naturally
presents an unfair risk-return profile for the investor.”  While the market for accumulators has shrunk since the 2008
crisis led to losses, it has mounted a “surprising comeback,”
with average daily volumes rebounding to as much as $500 million
from $130 million in 2009 and 2010, Lu said.  High-net-worth individuals who have at least $3 million in
investable assets or at least $1 million under investment firms’
management are the  main buyers , according to the Hong Kong
Monetary Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Hong Kong at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  