-- Moore Capital Said to Hire Morgan Stanley Credit Trader Wainer
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2013-07-04T11:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/moore-capital-said-to-hire-morgan-stanley-credit-trader-wainer.html
Moore Capital Management LP, the
$12.1 billion hedge-fund firm founded by  Louis Bacon , hired
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  credit trader Anthony Wainer, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Wainer was head of high-yield credit trading for Europe,
the  Middle East  and Africa at Morgan Stanley, said one of the
people, who asked not to be identified because his departure
isn’t public. At Moore, he will join former colleague Patrick Lynch, who had been Morgan Stanley’s head of European credit
sales and trading before resigning in January 2012.  Credit traders are leaving as banks curtail risk-taking in
the face of higher global  capital requirements . Among those to
move this year are Simon Gee of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Sid Gowda from Credit Suisse Group AG, both of whom are in the
process of joining BlueCrest Capital Management LLP, a $36
billion hedge-fund firm.  Wainer, who is based in London, didn’t answer a phone call
to his office at Morgan Stanley and an e-mail seeking comment.
Tom Walton, a spokesman for the New York-based bank, declined to
comment on Wainer’s departure and Moore spokeswoman Amanda
Pierce of Burson-Marsteller had no immediate comment.  Moore manages $12.1 billion and is known as a macro hedge
fund that makes bets on currencies, stocks,  interest rates  and
bonds based on global macroeconomic trends. The New York-based
firm’s Moore Macro Managers fund gained 10.9 percent this year
through June 20, boosted by a wager that Japanese  stocks  would
rise and the yen would fall as policy makers in the country
championed economic stimulus, according to an investor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Faris Khan at   fkhan33@bloomberg.net  