-- Orexo Wins U.S. Backing for Opioid-Addiction Tablet
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-07-04T06:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/orexo-wins-u-s-backing-for-opioid-addiction-tablet.html
Orexo AB (ORX) , a Swedish specialty
pharmaceutical company, won U.S. approval for a tablet to treat
addiction to heroin and prescription painkillers.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared the drug known as
Zubsolv for opioid dependence, the company said today in a
statement. The tablet, which dissolves under the tongue, is the
first competition to  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/) ’s Suboxone.  Zubsolv combines buprenorphine and naloxone to ease
withdrawal symptoms and block the high of opioids. Uppsala,
Sweden-based Orexo, which specializes in reformulating drugs in
sublingual form, estimates Zubsolv’s market potential to be at
least $500 million in annual sales. The company generated about
$48 million in  revenue  last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The FDA rejected a buprenorphine implant called Probuphine
in April from  Titan Pharmaceuticals Inc. (TTNP)  The FDA asked for more
data on the effect of higher doses of the medication and
training for doctors on insertion and removal of the implant.  Buprenorphine and another treatment for opioid addiction,
methadone, trick the brain into thinking it’s still getting
opioids. Methadone users must be enrolled in a treatment
program.  Prescription painkillers were involved in 14,800 overdose
deaths in 2008, more than cocaine and heroin combined, the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said. More than five
million U.S. citizens suffer from opioid dependence, Orexo said.  Fighting Abuse  Drugmakers are attempting to make prescription opioids
harder to abuse by creating tamper-resistant formulations that
deter tablet crushing that gives addicts a greater high. The FDA
determined in April that generic-pharmaceutical companies
couldn’t make copies of closely held Purdue Pharma LP’s
OxyContin that don’t have tamper resistant qualities.  Reckitt’s Suboxone was first approved as a tablet in 2002.
The London-based company discontinued the tablets, and focused
on film version, after it said in September 2012 it found
significantly higher rates of accidental pediatric exposure with
the tablets. The Suboxone film was approved in August 2010.  Zubsolv, like Suboxone, will be wrapped in individual
child-resistant packages, Orexo said.  Orexo said July 1 that it formed a partnership with
Publicis Touchpoint Solutions, based in Yardley, Pennsylvania,
to help sell Zubsolv in the U.S..  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  