-- Morgan Stanley Says Cut Indonesia Stocks on Capital Flight Risk
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-07-04T04:06:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/morgan-stanley-says-cut-indonesia-stocks-on-capital-flight-risk.html
Indonesia’s stock market is the most
vulnerable in  Southeast Asia  to capital flight amid expensive
valuations and large holdings by foreign investors, Morgan
Stanley said.  The country’s  equities  were reduced to underweight from
equalweight in a report today by  Jonathan Garner , the New York-based bank’s head of Asia and emerging-market strategy. PT CIMB
Securities Indonesia cut its recommendation on the nation’s
stocks two days ago, citing concern that rising fuel prices will
spur inflation.  Foreign investors, who bought a net $16 billion of
Indonesian shares during the past seven years, have sold about
$210 million so far in 2013, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  is valued at 2.8 times net assets,
the highest level among 17  Asia  equity measures, even after
falling 11 percent from its May 20 peak. The gauge rose 1.3
percent to 4,638.40 as of 10:50 a.m. in Jakarta, after a 3.2
drop yesterday.  “Indonesia is still a relatively overowned country” wrote
Garner and his Hong Kong-based colleagues Yang Bai and Pankaj Mataney. The nation “is likely to be the most vulnerable equity
market within ASEAN in a sudden stop of capital flows
scenario.” Asean refers to the  Association of Southeast Asian
Nations .  The Jakarta gauge, which has more than  doubled  during the
past four years, tumbled yesterday as foreign money managers
sold about $88 million of shares amid speculation Indonesia’s
central bank will boost borrowing costs. Policy makers are
scheduled to announce an interest-rate decision on July 11.  Volatility Surges  The  World Bank  cut its 2013 forecast for Indonesian growth
to 5.9 percent this month, saying accelerating inflation could
hurt domestic demand as exports and investment cool. The
government raised domestic fuel prices for the first time since
2008 last month.  Higher energy costs, combined with monetary policy
tightening, will probably hit already weakening investment
growth and drag economic expansion to 5.7 percent in 2013,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  The Jakarta gauge’s 30-day  historical volatility  rose to
33.3 today, highest level since November 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Price swings have increased amid concern
the U.S. Federal Reserve will reduce monetary stimulus that has
fueled demand for riskier assets in  emerging markets .  CIMB Securities Indonesia, the nation’s most-active
brokerage in May by trading volume, lowered its recommendation
on Indonesian stocks to neutral from overweight on July 2 and
trimmed the year-end target for the Jakarta index to 5,075 from
5,250.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  