-- Packer’s Crown Beats Echo Over $1.2 Billion Sydney Casino
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-07-04T08:02:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/packer-s-crown-beats-echo-over-912-million-sydney-casino-tower.html
Crown Ltd. (CWN) , the gaming company
controlled by billionaire James Packer, moved a step closer to
developing a A$1.3 billion ($1.2 billion) casino in Sydney,
beating a rival proposal from  Echo Entertainment Group Ltd. (EGP)   Crown’s plan for a hotel and casino tower west of the
city’s main business district will proceed to the third stage of
a government approval process, New South Wales state premier
Barry O’Farrell said today. The plan would boost tourism,
deliver extra tax revenue and contribute more to the state
economy than Echo’s proposal for a A$1.1 billion redevelopment
of its existing Star casino, the state government said.  Echo will lose its exclusivity to operate Sydney’s only
casino after 2019 as a result of the decision, amid competition
with Crown for tourist dollars from high-rolling Asian gamblers
who’ve  doubled Macau’s gaming revenues  over the past three
years. Adding a second casino in Sydney would undermine the
long-term viability of Echo’s existing Star complex, Chief
Executive Officer John Redmond said in an April 8 interview.  “It’s very negative for Echo,” Stan Shamu, a market
strategist at IG Markets Ltd., said by phone from  Melbourne .
“You might have a situation where they will struggle to attract
the tourists they want.”  Shares in Echo, which also operates three casinos in
Queensland state, fell 4.3 percent to A$2.91 at 1:05 p.m. in
Sydney before trade in the securities was halted. Crown shares
were halted at 12:55 p.m. ahead of the announcement, when they
gained 2.2 percent at A$12.21.  Disappointment  “We are disappointed that the New South Wales government
does not share our vision,” Echo Chairman John O’Neill said in
a regulatory statement. The company looks forward to “exploring
other initiatives” to develop its Star resort, he said.  Crown’s proposed casino, at the Barangaroo development
facing the Star across a stretch of Sydney Harbour, would be its
first site in the city alongside resorts in Melbourne and the
West Australian capital of Perth. It will have 350 hotel rooms
and suites, 80 luxury apartments, restaurants and bars, and
conference rooms, according to the company.  “I want this building to be instantly recognisable around
the world and feature on postcards and memorabilia promoting
Sydney,” Packer said in a regulatory statement today. “That’s
how you attract international tourists, create jobs and put
Sydney on the map.”  VIP Gamblers  The project will need about A$23 billion a year to be
wagered at its tables to achieve an adequate rate of return,
 Mark Wilson , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in Sydney, wrote in
a note to clients May 24.  Casinos only book revenues on the VIP bets that the house
wins. Crown’s Melbourne VIP rooms took bets worth A$24.3 billion
in the six months ended December and had a below-average win
rate of 1.23 percent.  The Melbourne-based company, of which Packer is chairman
and largest shareholder, will pay a A$100 million license fee to
the state government and won’t be allowed to operate  slot
machines  at the site. Legislation to be passed for the
development will only permit so-called VIP gaming at the resort,
in which gamblers will be required to spend as much as A$2,100
an hour, according to O’Farrell.  Gross state product will increase by A$442 million a year
in 2025 as a result, while the current value of additional tax
revenues and license fees until 2035 will be A$441 million,
according to the state’s assessment of the projects.  Echo’s proposal would have increased state income by A$350
million and tax revenue by A$337 million over the same time
frames, the report said.  Tax rates for both casinos will fall to 29 percent after
2019, from as much as 50 percent at present, the state
government said.  The government said it will move to stage three of the
approval process provided that Crown agrees to the upfront
license payment of A$100 million and a number of other
conditions, including that the total license fee and gaming tax
payments made to the government over the first 15 years of
operation exceeds A$1 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  