-- Pakistan Agrees on $5.3 Billion Loan With IMF in Rupee Boost
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   F a s e e h   M a n g i
-- 2013-07-05T09:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/pakistan-imf-agree-on-5-3-billion-loan-after-slide-in-reserves.html
Pakistan  and the International
Monetary Fund agreed on a $5.3 billion loan to boost the
nation’s depleted currency reserves and help stabilize its
struggling economy. Stocks, bonds and the rupee rose.  The government presented a “very robust reform” agenda to
secure the assistance, Finance Minister Ishaq Dar said at a
joint briefing with the IMF in Islamabad yesterday. The program
of credit needs final approval from the lender’s board, its
Pakistan mission head Jeffrey Franks said.  A plunge of about 40 percent in the reserves in the past
year to $6 billion has left Pakistan with enough to cover only
about two months of imports, central bank data show. Prime
Minister Nawaz Sharif also faces other challenges, including
energy shortages and a Taliban insurgency in the northwest.  “The overall focus of the program is to boost economic
growth,” Franks said after talks between the two sides
concluded. “There may be difficult decisions to get there but
these will necessary to achieve a stable economy.”  Dar said while $5.3 billion is the minimum agreed, the
government wants $7.3 billion and that request is still pending
with the IMF. The 36-month arrangement will carry a floating
interest rate of 3 percent and will be considered by the board
in early September, “subject to the timely completion of prior
actions to be taken by the authorities,” the lender said.  Rupee, Bonds  The rupee, which has weakened about 2.8 percent this year,
strengthened 0.1 percent to 100 per dollar as of 2:15 p.m. local
time. The Karachi Stock Exchange 100 index climbed 1.1 percent,
poised for the biggest weekly advance since January 2012. The
yield on Pakistan’s dollar bonds due 2016 dropped 33 basis
points, or 0.33 percentage point, to 9.11 percent at 2 p.m.
Karachi time, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Pakistan has to avoid committing default on foreign
loans,” Dar said. “That’s the only reason we are going to IMF
with a homegrown reform program.”  The IMF has asked Pakistan to ensure policy changes are
under way when the board considers the program to help convince
it the nation is “committed,” Franks said.  Those actions include energy reforms, some measures by the
State Bank of Pakistan and achieving consensus among the
provinces, Franks said.  The IMF agreement comes after Sharif returned to power in a
May 11 general election, more than 13 years after his second
period as premier was cut short by a 1999 army coup.  Averting ‘Panic’  An earlier, partially disbursed $11.3 billion IMF program
expired in September 2011 after Pakistan failed to meet the
conditions attached to it.  Repayments of that assistance and a widening trade deficit
have pressured the South Asian nation’s reserves. At the same
time, the prospect of reduced U.S. monetary stimulus has
disrupted capital inflows into  emerging markets .  A drop in reserves to less than $6 billion would have
risked “panic” in the currency markets without the backstop of
an IMF bailout, according to Muhammad Azfer Naseem, research
head at Elixir Securities Pakistan Pvt. Ltd. in Karachi.  An IMF program will “open the door for further lending
from the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank,” Ashfaque
Hasan Khan, a former adviser in the Finance Ministry, said in a
telephone interview from Islamabad.  The IMF won’t offer new aid without a “deep and clear”
commitment on a set of policy changes to curb the fiscal
deficit, Franks said in January. A low tax-to-gross domestic
product ratio is “at the core of the problem,” he said at the
time.  Dar in his June 12 budget speech pledged to narrow the
widest fiscal deficit in over two decades and to spur expansion
in an economy he said was “shattered.”  The budget-gap target for the year that began July 1 is 6.3
percent of GDP, from a shortfall of 8.8 percent in 2012-2013.  Dar also plans to clear money owed to power companies from
unpaid bills. The dues have choked power generation.  Sharif is aiming for 4.4 percent economic expansion and to
keep inflation in single digits this fiscal year. Consumer-price
growth  quickened  to a three-month high of 5.85 percent in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Faseeh Mangi in Karachi at 
 fmangi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  