-- Palm Reserves Seen Falling for Sixth Month as Exports Rise
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-07-04T10:23:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/palm-oil-stockpiles-seen-falling-for-sixth-month-as-exports-rise.html
Palm oil inventories in  Malaysia , the
largest producer after  Indonesia , probably contracted for a
sixth month in June to the lowest level in a year, according to
a Bloomberg survey of growers and analysts. Futures climbed.  Reserves fell 3.7 percent to 1.75 million metric tons, the
least since June 2012, compared with the month before, the
median of estimates from two plantation companies and four
analysts showed. Output rose 6.2 percent to 1.47 million tons
and  exports  gained 4.1 percent to 1.47 million tons, the survey
showed. Imports expanded 4.7 percent to 50,000 tons, according
to the median of five estimates.  Palm oil has lost 25 percent over the past year as supply
of the most-used cooking oil outpaced demand. There is a risk
that reserves in Malaysia may rebound with higher production in
the second half, according to Rabobank International. Official
data from the country’s palm board are due on July 10, including
shipments to  India  and  China , the largest importers.  “I do expect prices to have a support because if the
stockpiles come down, then obviously there’s more demand,”  Ben Santoso , an analyst at DBS Vickers Securities Pte., said from
 Singapore . “But we have yet to see what the stockpiles in China
and India are, because we want to make sure it’s not just a
transfer from the producing to the consuming countries.”  Indian Stockpiles  India’s cooking oil stockpiles were 1.98 million tons on
June 1 from 1.69 million tons a year earlier and a record 2.12
million tons in March, according to the Solvent Extractors’
Association of India. Inventory in China was 1.28 million tons
in the week to June 28 from a record 1.6 million tons in May,
according to Shanghai Pansun Cereals & Oils Development Co.  Palm oil  for delivery in September advanced 0.2 percent to
2,370 ringgit ($744) a ton on the Bursa Malaysia Derivatives,
the highest level at close for the most-active futures since
June 26. Prices touched 2,491 ringgit on June 20, the highest
since March 25, on demand before the Muslim fasting month of
Ramadan in July, when communal meals lift total usage.  “Normalizing demand from India and  Bangladesh  after
Ramadan will be neutralized by lower production due to tree
stress,” said Alan Lim Seong Chun, an analyst at Kenanga
Investment Bank Bhd. Output may also be affected during the Eid
festival season in August when laborers go on holiday, he said.  The median estimate in the survey for output in June was in
line with 1.47 million tons a year ago, according to data from
the Malaysian Palm Oil Board. Production typically is highest
from July to October each year.  Mistry’s Outlook  Palm oil may decline to 2,200 ringgit by the end of the
year, according to a separate Bloomberg survey of 13 trader,
producer and analyst estimates that was published on June 25.
Dorab Mistry, a director at Godrej International Ltd., said that
he’s bearish on prices after July as output expands.  Demand should increase in the coming months ahead of Eid,
Mid-Autumn and Diwali festivities, Santoso and Quah He Wei wrote
in a report on July 1. After that, stockpiles in Malaysia may
rebound toward 2.1 million tons by December as output from the
peak-harvesting season kicks in, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Thomas Kutty Abraham at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net ;
Jake Lloyd-Smith at 
 jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net  