-- PBOC to Extend Cash Crunch as Zhou Discovers Flaws
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-05T04:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/pboc-to-extend-cash-crunch-as-zhou-discovers-flaws-china-credit.html
China’s finance companies predict
central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  will extend a cash crunch,
albeit without June’s dramatic swings, as he calls for the
market to “discover and correct” excessive lending.  The seven-day repurchase  rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, may average 4 percent in the third
quarter, compared with 3.62 percent in the past year, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of eight analysts.
The rate surged to a record 10.8 percent on June 20, and
averaged 4.49 percent last quarter, the highest since the
National Interbank Funding Center started compiling the data in
2003. The similar rate in  India  fell 73 basis points.  “While inflation remains controlled, the central bank may
want to keep money-market rates elevated to reduce banks’ off-balance-sheet assets,” said Huang Wentao, a bond analyst at
 China  Securities Co. in Beijing, the country’s second-biggest
brokerage underwriter of bonds. “We probably won’t see a return
of the extreme tightness in June, but a 4 percent repo rate is
still very high.”  Shares of China’s four biggest  banks  plunged an average of
12 percent last month and yield premiums on their bonds soared
as the cash crunch underscored concerns excessive lending to
property projects and local governments will end in rising
defaults. President Xi Jinping said last month that officials
shouldn’t be judged solely on their record in boosting gross
domestic product, signaling that the new administration is
prepared to tolerate slower economic expansion.  Repo Rate, Swaps  The worst cash squeeze in at least a decade has eased after
the central bank  pumped  capital into some finance companies. The
seven-day repo has plunged 694 basis points, or 6.94 percentage
points, since June 20 to 3.83 percent today, according to a
daily fixing published by the National Interbank Funding Center
at 11 a.m. The measure fell 15 basis points today.  The three-month swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, declined six
basis points to 3.9 percent as of 11:52 a.m. in  Shanghai ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Zhou, in his first public comments since the cash crunch,
said in a June 28 speech in Shanghai that “financial markets
have always been very sensitive. They react very quickly to any
signals. This helps discover and correct problems.”  The cash crunch was a reminder to lenders to adjust their
“asset businesses,” Zhou, the G-20’s longest-serving central
bank chief, said in an interview reported July 1 by China
Business News. While the PBOC will step in if individual
financial institutions are in extremely difficult situations, it
doesn’t want banks to ignore the need for adjustments, he was
cited as saying.  Cash Supply  The yield spread for one-year AAA bank bonds over similar-maturity sovereign notes  jumped  47 basis points last month to
154.6 basis points, according to ChinaBond data. The similar AA
gap widened 50 basis points to 179.6.  Twelve-month non-deliverable  yuan  forwards fell 0.1 percent
this week to 6.2975 per dollar today on speculation the Federal
Reserve may reduce monetary stimulus that helped spur fund
inflows to emerging-market assets. The yuan has strengthened
0.14 percent in the same period to 6.1293, according to the
China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The discount to the spot
rate was 2.67 percent, after touching 2.78 percent on July 3,
the biggest since February 2009.  Further Tightening  “It’s possible that the PBOC will tighten further,” said
Xu Hanfei, an economist at Guotai Junan Securities Co. in
Shanghai. “While yuan depreciation expectation is rising, the
central bank will have to passively keep money-market rates at
high levels to increase the opportunity costs of capital
outflows.”  He added that central bank auctions of 91-day bills may
resume as early as next week, draining money from the market.  The monetary authority has refrained from selling  bills 
since June 20, when both the overnight and seven-day repurchase
rates climbed to all-time highs. An index compiled by the
operations office of the People’s Bank of China shows that cash
supply still isn’t inadequate, the Financial News, which is
owned by the central bank, reported on July 3.  Liquidity Support  “If money market rates fall, cash would flow into the real
estate sector or local government financing vehicles,” said Hu Hangyu, a Beijing-based bond analyst at Citic Securities Co.,
the nation’s biggest listed brokerage. “All the efforts the
central bank made in June would be in vain.”  The central bank signaled on June 25 that liquidity support
would be focused on banks that lend to help the economy. It
warned commercial banks should “appropriately” handle the pace
of regular lending and bill financing and control risks
resulting from rapid credit expansion.  China’s  aggregate financing , which tallies bank loans,
corporate bonds, equity raising and other off-balance-sheet
credit to provide a broad picture of funding, surged 50 percent
in the first five months of this year to a record $1.5 trillion,
the central bank said. About a third of that went to entrusted
loans, trust lending and bills, which together with underground
lending are known as shadow banking, which allows banks to
bypass controls and capital requirements.  Growing Risk  The nation’s total credit, including off-balance-sheet
loans, swelled to 198 percent of gross domestic product in 2012
from 125 percent four years earlier, Fitch Ratings estimated in
May. This exceeded increases in the ratio before banking crises
in  Japan  and South Korea.  China may have difficulty realizing its 7.5 percent annual
growth target this year, the 21st Century Business Herald
reported yesterday, citing Fan Jianping, chief economist at the
State Information Center. A government report may show July 15
that China’s  economy  grew 7.6 percent in the second quarter, the
slowest since the three months through September last year,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of 22 economists.  “The elevated borrowing costs may hit the economy in three
to six months,” said Chen Ying, a bond analyst at Sealand
Securities Co. in Shenzhen. “We can’t exclude the possibility
of policy easing in the fourth quarter if there is an obvious
slowdown in growth and the unemployment rate rises,”  Economic growth may decelerate to 7.3 percent in the fourth
quarter, said Chen. She forecast the seven-day repo may be an
average 4 percent for the whole of the second half, the same as
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of nine analysts.  Bank Deleveraging  Tian Jiachao, a bond analyst at China Merchants Bank Co.,
said the cash crunch will probably ease in the third quarter
because the central bank will come to the rescue if the money
shortage returns.  “Banks will work on deleveraging after taking the credit
squeeze in June as a lesson,” said Tian at China Merchants
Bank, the nation’s sixth-biggest lender. “The central bank will
no longer stand aside if any banks get into liquidity trouble.”  Economists led by Song Yu at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
predicted that the  M2 (CNMS2YOY)  measure of money supply rose 14.8 percent
in June, the least in six months, because of tighter regulatory
controls on interbank products, according to a report yesterday.
The gauge has exceeded the government’s target of 13 percent in
the first five months of this year.  The cost of protecting China’s government debt from default
increased one basis point to 124 basis points yesterday in New
York, according to prices from data provider CMA. The contracts
pay the buyer face value in exchange for underlying securities
or the cash equivalent if a borrower fails to adhere to its debt
agreements.  “A reduction in cash supply is what commercial banks are
most afraid of,” said China Securities’ Huang. “Monetary
policy will be tighter in the second half even though the PBOC
will still publicly stick to a so-called prudent policy.”  Below are the forecasts for China’s seven-day repurchase
rate from finance companies surveyed by Bloomberg News.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  