-- Pimco Sells Provinces After Worst Rout Since ‘94: Canada Credit
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-07-04T14:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/pimco-sells-provinces-after-worst-rout-since-94-canada-credit.html
Provincial bonds, touted two months
ago by Pacific Investment Management Co. as a way to offset low
government bond yields, are losing favor at the world’s biggest
bond-fund manager amid their biggest quarterly loss since 1994.  The Canadian Total Return Fund reduced its holdings to 43
percent in May, from 51 percent in April, according to the
latest available data on  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco’s
 website . Debt of provinces and Canadian local governments such
as Ontario and  Nova Scotia  remain the largest holdings in the
fund overseen by Ed Devlin in  London . He didn’t respond to a
voice message late yesterday seeking comment.  Yields have soared since the start of May on speculation
the  Federal Reserve  may scale back asset purchases that have
kept borrowing costs low worldwide. Provincial bonds fared worse
than Canadian federal-government and corporate bonds, in part
because issuers had extended the average maturity of the
securities when rates were low, making the bonds more at risk to
losses because holders demand a larger yield premium on the
longest-maturity fixed-rate debt as prices fall.  “People got spooked and started selling everything because
they’re worried  interest rates  are going up,” Mark Wisniewski,
who holds no provincial debt as part of the fixed-income funds
he manages at Toronto-based Davis Rea Ltd., which oversees C$575
million ($547 million), said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“That has an effect across the whole market.”  Fund Performance  Provincial bonds lost 2.9 percent in the second quarter,
compared with declines of 2.2 percent for Canadian government
and 2 percent for corporate securities, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. The quarterly drop was the
steepest since a 5.3 percent slide in 1994, the worst since
Merrill started tracking returns in 1992.  The Canadian Total Return Fund lost 1.7 percent in the
month ended May 31, compared with a drop of 1.5 percent in the
DEX Universal Bond Index that serves as the fund’s benchmark,
according to data on Pimco’s website. Year-to-date, the fund is
up 0.07 percent, while the DEX index is 0.35 percent higher.  Provincial bonds were yielding the most over federal- government securities  this year when Devlin said in April that
they offered the best value among Canadian bonds with the
central bank projecting excess capacity in the economy at least
into 2015.  The debt of Canada’s 10 provinces yielded 78 basis points,
or 0.78 percentage point, more than benchmark government
securities in April, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
showed. Yields on 10-year  government bonds  were around 1.70
percent. The yield premium has narrowed to 72 basis points since
then, while 10-year government bonds yielded 2.41 percent at 10
a.m. in Toronto.  Average Duration  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for Pimco, a unit of the
Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE (ALV) , didn’t return a call yesterday
seeking comment. More than 90 percent of Pimco’s $2.04 trillion
in assets as of March 31 was in bonds.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own the debt of Canadian investment-grade corporations
rather than the federal government was unchanged yesterday from
a day earlier at 126 basis points, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index. Yields were steady at 3.19 percent.  Ontario, Quebec  Pimco had favored the debt of Ontario and  Quebec , the
nation’s two most populous provinces. They were among the
governments issuing longer-maturity debt to finance budget
deficits, pushing the average duration of provincial debt toward
a record nine years, the Merrill Lynch data shows. Duration
measures a bond’s price sensitivity to yield changes that rises
with longer maturities.  Ontario,  Canada ’s largest provincial borrower, extended its
weighted-average term to maturity to 12.4 years from 8.1 years
three years ago. Even so, the province can change focus to
short-term debt sales if the 30-year debt that’s led the
province’s sales since 2009 loses favor, Gadi Mayman, chief
executive officer of the Ontario Financing Authority, said in an
interview May 31 at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York .  The  Bank of Canada  has kept its benchmark  interest rate  at
1 percent since 2010 in the longest pause since the 1950s.
Investors are increasing bets the hiatus may end next year as
growth in Canada’s largest trading partner has picked up and
domestic payrolls unexpectedly swelled in May. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben Bernanke  told Congress on May 22 the U.S. central
bank could cut the pace of its monthly purchases of $85 billion
in Treasury and mortgage debt if officials see indications of
sustained improvement in economic growth.  Yield Climbs  The yield on Ontario’s 4.65 percent notes due June 2041
breached 4 percent on June 25 for the first time since 2011,
after climbing 40 basis points in June. The securities yielded
3.87 percent yesterday.  Ontario is trying to eliminate an C$11.7 billion budget
shortfall by April 2018 as its manufacturers seek to make the
most of a rebound in U.S. demand for the car parts it exports.
The province plans to issue C$33.4 billion of bonds in the 12
months through April 1, compared with C$36.6 billion the
previous year, according to the province’s May 2 fiscal plan.  “As part of the risk-off trades, people cut back on
duration -- and used long provinces to cut back,” Hosen Marjaee, a senior managing director at Manulife Asset Management
Ltd., said by phone yesterday from Toronto. “These unfortunate
events have put more pressure on their finances and borrowing
requirements.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  