-- Pound Falls Toward 5-Week Low Versus Dollar Before BOE Decision
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-07-04T10:08:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/pound-declines-toward-five-week-low-before-boe-policy-decision.html
The pound declined toward a five-week
low against the dollar as the Bank of England’s Monetary Policy
Committee prepared to announce its latest decision three days
after  Mark Carney  joined as Governor.  The U.K. currency weakened against all its 16 major
counterparts. The nine-member MPC will keep its  quantitative-easing  stimulus target and the benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged, according to separate Bloomberg News surveys of
economists. The central bank may release a statement, something
it doesn’t typically do when there has been no change in policy.
U.K. government bonds declined for a second day.  “We think we will get a statement, which breaks with
tradition,” said  Paul Robson , a senior currency strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London. “We’re not
expecting sterling to react poorly to the fact that we get a
statement. The data point to the economy growing, so it’s quite
hard for them to justify anything too dovish at this point.”  The pound fell 0.3 percent to $1.5247 at 10:57 a.m. London
time. It dropped to $1.5130 yesterday, the lowest since May 30.
The U.K. currency depreciated 0.2 percent to 85.34 pence per
euro. It reached 85.94 pence on July 2, also the weakest since
May 30.  RBS recommends buying the pound against the euro before the
meeting, Robson said.  Former Bank of Canada Governor Carney, the first foreigner
to run the 319-year-old U.K. central bank, started his new role
on July 1. His first policy decision comes as data this week
showed services and  manufacturing growth  accelerated to their
fastest in more than two years in June.  ‘Unambiguously Strong’  Citigroup Inc.’s Economic Surprise Index for the U.K.
climbed to 48.90 percent yesterday, the highest level since
December. The index shows whether U.K. data beat or fell short
of forecasts.  “U.K. data has been unambiguously strong recently, but we
remain bearish on the pound,” George Saravelos, a London-based
currency strategist at Deutsche Bank AG, wrote in a note to
clients. “We don’t think better growth numbers will translate
into tighter monetary policy. We expect incoming Governor Carney
will introduce verbal guidance” after a review of policy tools
concludes in August, he wrote.  The pound will fall toward $1.40, Deutsche Bank predicted,
without giving a time frame. Britain’s currency will end the
year at $1.50, according to a Bloomberg survey of forecasters.  Benchmark Rates  Policy makers will maintain the asset-purchase  target  at
375 billion pounds, according to a Bloomberg survey of 44
economists before the announcement at noon  London  time. They
will also leave the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at a
record-low 0.5 percent, a separate survey shows.  Sterling rose 1.3 percent against the dollar, the steepest
gain since August 2010, on June 6 after the previous policy
meeting, when the central bank refrained from adding to stimulus
at Mervyn King’s final meeting as governor. King failed since
February to persuade a majority to back an expansion of
stimulus.  The pound has risen 3.7 percent in the past three months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-market nations. The euro gained 4.3 percent and the
dollar climbed 3.6 percent.  U.K. house prices rose last month to the highest in almost
three years, a report showed today. Home values increased 0.6
percent from May to an average 167,984 pounds, the most since
August 2010, the mortgage unit of Lloyds Banking Group Plc said
in a statement in London today.  Benchmark 10-year gilt yields rose two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 2.41 percent. The 1.75 percent
security maturing in September 2022 fell 0.14, or 1.40 pounds
per 1,000-pound face amount, to 94.58.  Gilts handed investors a loss of 3.3 percent this year
through yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes.
German bonds dropped 1.3 percent and Treasuries declined 2.9
percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  