-- Pound Slumps Most Since 2011 as BOE Signals Rates to Stay Low
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-07-04T15:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/pound-extends-declines-after-boe-keeps-monetary-policy-on-hold.html
The pound plunged the most in almost
two years against the dollar after the Bank of  England  signaled
it will keep  interest rates  at a record low for longer than
investors had expected.  Gilts rose and short-sterling futures jumped, indicating
traders were reducing bets on higher borrowing costs. Led by new
Governor  Mark Carney , the central bank kept its  bond-buying
 target at 375 billion pounds ($565 billion) and issued a
statement afterwards, signaling a move toward the forward-guidance tool he favors. Sterling has strengthened in the past
month and gilt yields climbed after services, manufacturing and
construction data indicated the economy is gathering pace.  “The statement is probably a little bit more dovish than
the market was expecting, pushing back on the rise in longer-term interest rates and suggesting that monetary policy will
remain accommodative for some considerable time,” said  Paul Robson , a senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in London. “This leaves sterling vulnerable against
the dollar and the euro.”  The pound fell 1.4 percent to $1.5070 at 4:41 p.m. London
time, the steepest decline since Sept. 21, 2011. It reached
$1.5056, the lowest since May 29. Britain’s currency depreciated
0.7 percent to 85.74 pence per euro. It earlier reached 86.33
pence, the weakest since April 17.  The pound pared its decline against the euro after European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the institution’s
monetary policy will “remain accommodative” for as long as
needed.  Implied Yield  “The implied rise in the expected future path of  Bank Rate 
was not warranted by the recent developments in the domestic
economy,” the London-based central bank said in a statement.
The increase in market interest rates would weigh on the
nation’s economic outlook, it said.  The implied yield on the short-sterling futures contract
expiring in September 2014 fell 11 basis points to 0.73 percent.  Today’s decision was the first by the central bank since
Carney became governor on July 1. The nine-member Monetary
Policy Committee also left the U.K.’s main interest rate at a
record-low 0.5 percent.  Ten-year  gilt yields  fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.38 percent after rising as much as three
basis points. The price of the 1.75 percent security maturing in
September 2022 rose 0.14, or 1.40 pounds per 1,000-pound face
amount, to 94.86. The rate reached 2.59 percent on June 24, the
highest level since October 2011.  Two-year  note yields  slid three basis points to 0.38
percent after touching 0.32 percent, the least since May 24.  First Foreigner  Former Bank of Canada Governor Carney is the first
foreigner to run the 319-year-old U.K. central bank. The  Bank of
England  typically doesn’t release statements after leaving
policy unchanged. The decision to do so today reflects comments
Carney made earlier this year to use communication, including
forward guidance, as one of his policy tools.  “The August policy meeting could implement further
changes, perhaps even formal threshold guidance,” Rob Wood, an
economist at Berenberg Bank in London who used to work at the
Bank of England, wrote in a note to clients. “Carney appears to
be doing a good job of convincing his colleagues of the need for
clear guidance to the markets and the public in order to keep
market-rate expectations in check and cement the recovery.”  Carney has indicated a preference for further action,
saying central banks aren’t “maxed out” and that guidance on
future policy can help them respond to shocks and financial
imbalances.  House Prices  The pound has risen 2.7 percent in the past three months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-market nations. The euro gained 3.8 percent and the
dollar climbed 4 percent.  U.K. house prices rose last month to the highest in almost
three years, a report showed today. Home values increased 0.6
percent from May to an average 167,984 pounds, the most since
August 2010, the mortgage unit of Lloyds Banking Group Plc said
in a statement in  London  today.  Citigroup Inc.’s Economic Surprise Index for the U.K.
climbed to 48.90 percent yesterday, the highest level since
December. The index shows whether U.K. data beat or fell short
of forecasts.  “U.K. data has been unambiguously strong recently, but we
remain bearish on the pound,” George Saravelos, a London-based
currency strategist at Deutsche Bank AG, wrote in a note to
clients. “We don’t think better growth numbers will translate
into tighter monetary policy. We expect incoming Governor Carney
will introduce verbal guidance” after a review of policy tools
concludes in August, he wrote.  The pound will fall toward $1.40, Deutsche Bank predicted,
without giving a time frame. Britain’s currency will end the
year at $1.50, according to a Bloomberg survey of forecasters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  