-- Prosecutors Lack Evidence to Charge Cohen: WSJ
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-07-04T23:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/prosecutors-lack-evidence-to-charge-cohen-wsj.html
Hedge-fund billionaire  Steven A. Cohen  isn’t likely to face criminal charges tied to the biggest
alleged  insider-trading  case in history as U.S. prosecutors
conclude there’s not enough evidence to meet a statute of
limitations deadline to file a case, the Wall Street Journal
reported, citing people familiar with the situation.  The evidence against Cohen, 57, that involves his $15
billion firm SAC Capital Advisors LP isn’t strong enough, the
newspaper reported yesterday. It didn’t name its sources.  The case, part of a five-year U.S. crackdown of insider
trading at  hedge funds , stems from the insider-trading case
against former SAC portfolio manager Mathew Martoma, who was
charged in November in what prosecutors called the biggest
insider-trading scheme in history. SAC paid a record $602
million to settle a civil case related to Martoma’s trades. The
five-year statute of limitations deadline for prosecutors to
bring charges for Martoma’s 2008 trades expires in late July.  The U.S. says Martoma, who has pleaded not guilty and isn’t
cooperating with the U.S., helped SAC reap the illicit profits
by trading in shares of Elan Corp. and Wyeth LLC, from tips he
received from a physician who was in charge of monitoring tests
on a clinical drug trial of bapineuzumab, or bapi, a drug to
treat  Alzheimer’s disease .  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC at Sard Verbinnen
& Co., declined to comment on the report.  Jim Margolin , a
spokesman for the FBI in New York, didn’t return a voice-mail
message and e-mail message sent after business hours yesterday
seeking comment. Martin Klotz, a lawyer for Cohen, didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comment. Jerika Richardson, a
spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , declined
to comment.  The Journal said that prosecutors in Bharara’s office could
still go after Cohen for more recent trading activity that won’t
be hampered by the five-year statute of limitations for insider
trading charges. Criminal charges against  Stamford , Connecticut-based SAC also haven’t been ruled out, the Journal said, and
prosecutors could use the trades as part of a broader criminal
case later against him, the newspaper said, citing people
familiar with the probe. The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s investigation of Cohen could lead to a lawsuit
against him, according to a person cited by the Wall Street
Journal.  Cohen, who has denied any wrongdoing, hasn’t been charged
with any crime.  The case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-cr-00973, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  