-- Rand Advances First Day in Four Before ECB, BoE Rate Decisions
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-07-04T08:44:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/rand-advances-first-day-in-four-before-ecb-boe-rate-decisions.html
The rand gained for the first time in
four days as stocks and commodity prices rebounded before
interest-rate decisions from the  European Central Bank  and the
Bank of England.  With the  Federal Reserve  signaling it may remove monetary
stimulus, investors are seeking assurance from ECB President
 Mario Draghi  that it has no plans to end its current
accommodative stance, which is helping to sustain demand for
higher-yielding assets including South African bonds. The
Frankfurt-based ECB will keep its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at a record low of 0.5 percent today, according to 61
of 62 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  “Event risk today comes from the ECB meeting which could
generate some mild volatility,”  John Cairns , a currency
strategist at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “Expect mostly talk but it is possible they
may hint at rate cuts or even a move towards giving formal
guidance on the future trajectory of policy.”  South Africa’s currency gained 0.3 percent to 10.0583 per
dollar as of 9:28 a.m. in Johannesburg. With U.S. markets closed
for  Independence Day , trading volumes may be low, Cairns said.
Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due December 2026 rose
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.97 percent.  The  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index (SPGSCI)  of raw materials climbed
as much as 1.7 percent, the most since June 20, as gold advanced
for a second day. South Africa’s benchmark stock  index  rose for
the first time in three days. Commodities account for more than
50 percent of South Africa’s exports, according to government
data.  The ECB decision is scheduled for 1:45 p.m. in Frankfurt
and Draghi will hold a press conference 45 minutes later. The
Bank of England, at its first rate decision under new governor
 Mark Carney , will keep its bond-purchase target at 375 billion
pounds ($573 billion) and maintain its key rate at 0.5 percent,
separate Bloomberg surveys show. That decision is due at noon in
London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  