-- RBA’s Lowe Says Regulators Face Trade-Offs in Bid to Curb Risks
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-07-04T02:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/rba-s-lowe-says-regulators-face-trade-offs-in-bid-to-curb-risks.html
Reserve Bank  of Australia Deputy
Governor  Philip Lowe  said regulators face trade-offs as they set
rules aimed at reducing risks in the financial system.  While banks are being encouraged to collateralize exposures
in the form of covered bonds and other instruments, there is
uncertainty over whether such measures will make the financial
system safer, Lowe said in the  text  of a speech today in Sydney.
Some regulators are encouraging banks to increase funding from
deposits, whereas others advocate more wholesale debt, he said,
noting the “limits of rules alone.”  “I suspect that it is simply not possible, or in fact
desirable, to regulate a modern financial system to the point
that we can say with absolute confidence that problems will not
occur,” Lowe said. “What we can do, however, is to reduce the
likelihood and severity of future problems.”  Global regulators have introduced policies to shore up the
banking system after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in 2008 that triggered a crisis in the U.S. and  Europe . In
Australia, which escaped the worst of the credit crunch, local
regulators have accelerated requirements to increase bank
capital reserves ahead of a global timetable.  Lowe said the  Australian Prudential Regulation Authority 
has done a better job than many global counterparts, combining
“a sensible approach to rule-making with a focus on the big
picture.” While noting unease with public bailouts, he also
said it would be wrong to rule out government use of its balance
sheet in times of crisis.  Lowe didn’t address monetary policy in the text of the
speech.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  