-- Religious Bill Splits Malaysia’s Cabinet After Divisive Vote
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-07-04T09:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/religious-bill-splits-malaysia-s-cabinet-after-divisive-election.html
Some of Malaysian Prime Minister
Najib Razak’s cabinet have spoken out in dissent over a bill
that would let a single parent or guardian convert their child
to Islam without their partner’s consent.  The proposed change has sparked protests from the prime
minister’s biggest coalition partners, as well as leaders of
religious and ethnic minorities in the Muslim-majority nation.
The row comes as parliament resumed last week after May’s
general election which saw support for the government slide to
its lowest level in more than 55 years.  “Certain sections of the bill can be detrimental to non-Muslims,” G. Palanivel, a minister who heads the Malaysian
Indian Congress party in Najib’s governing Barisan Nasional
coalition, said in a phone interview. “The government should
propose a fairer version of the bill, taking into account
individual rights and civil liberties.”  The heads of some other parties representing minority
groups in Najib’s coalition, including the Malaysian Chinese
Association, have also protested the proposed amendment, testing
the alliance’s unity as  economic  growth slows. Net foreign
direct investment dropped 17 percent last year to $10.1 billion
as spending in neighbors including Singapore and  Indonesia 
increased, according to a report by the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development last week.  ‘Going Backwards?’  “If you are a businessman or investor and considering
where to invest, this issue will emerge,” Tan Teng Boo, the
Kuala Lumpur-based chief executive officer at Capital Dynamics
Asset Management Sdn., said in an interview today. “These
things are bound to come up. Why would I want to be in a country
that seems to be going backwards?”  About 60 percent of Malaysia’s 29.6 million-strong
population are Muslim, according to the CIA World Factbook.
Under the constitution, all ethnic Malays are automatically
Muslims and followers of other races, including Chinese and
Indians, aren’t allowed to leave the religion. In a court case
in 2007, Lina Joy lost an appeal to stop the government
referring to her as a Muslim on her identity card so that she
could marry her Catholic boyfriend.  In April this year, a Hindu hair salon owner discovered
that her estranged husband had converted their  two children  to
Islam without her knowledge, the  Malaysia  Chronicle reported
June 22.  First Reading  Jamil Khir Baharom, a minister in the Prime Minister’s
Department overseeing Islamic affairs, tabled the proposed
amendment to the Administration of Islam (Federal Territories)
Bill 2013 for a first reading in parliament on June 26. The
cabinet has since discussed the matter and will seek a fairer
solution, Bernama reported July 1, citing Deputy Prime Minister
Muhyiddin Yassin. Jamil couldn’t be immediately reached for
comment today.  “The fact that the debate is happening shows that Malaysia
is moving hopefully towards the direction that people can
discuss what used to be a very sensitive issue in a healthier
way,” Wan Saiful Wan Jan, chief executive officer of the
Institute for Democracy and Economic Affairs, a Kuala Lumpur-based think-tank, said by phone.  Najib’s coalition retained power in the May 5 election even
after failing to get a majority of the popular vote for the
first time since 1969, which the prime minister attributed to a
loss of support from Chinese voters.  Islam is recognized as the official religion of Malaysia,
which Najib describes as a “moderate” Islamic nation, and non-Muslims have the right to choose and practice their own faith.
The Southeast Asian country has a dual legal system with a
British-styled civil court system and a separate Shariah, or
Islamic legal system that governs marriage, inheritance and
other family matters for Muslims.  ‘Fundamentally Unjust’  The provision is “fundamentally unjust as it denies the
rights of one parent on the welfare of his or her children,”
Paul Low, a minister in the Prime Minister’s Department, said in
a phone interview yesterday.  Christopher Leong, president of the Malaysian Bar Council,
said the proposed amendment was “unconstitutional” in a June
18 statement. He pointed to a cabinet directive in 2009
announced by Nazri Abdul Aziz, then de facto law minister, that
children of an estranged couple should remain in the religion of
the parents at the point of marriage.  Nazri, now tourism minister, also spoke out against the
proposed legislative change this week, saying it’s unfair to
non-Muslims, the Star newspaper reported today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net ;
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson in Singapore at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  