-- Rodriguez Remains Hitless With RiverDogs, Heads for Tampa Team
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-07-04T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/rodriguez-remains-hitless-with-riverdogs-heads-for-tampa-team.html
Alex Rodriguez  was hitless in four
at-bats over two games with the Yankees’ minor-league Charleston
RiverDogs before heading for New York’s Tampa affiliate to
continue his rehabilitation.  Rodriguez, 37, has 18 days to reach Major League Baseball
status or return to the disabled list. He is recovering from
January’s left hip surgery.  “I don’t mind if I save all my hits for New York,” said
Rodriguez, who is joined by teammate  Eduardo Nunez  on the minor-league roster.  Rodriguez grounded out twice off 19-year-old right-hander
Mauricio Cabrera, whose first pitch to the third baseman was
clocked at 101 miles per hour (163 kph).  “I couldn’t believe it,” Rodriguez said. “It’s not very
often you see 101.”  The Rome Braves beat the RiverDogs 8-5 in 10 innings last
night at Riley Park in Charleston,  South Carolina .  Rodriguez will work out today with the RiverDogs before
meeting up with the Tampa team for two games in Lakeland,
Florida.  Rodriguez said he is “chasing the sunshine” to get the
most at-bats before his rehabilitation is over.  Rodriguez hit .272 last year with 18 home runs and 57 runs
batted in. He batted .120 with 12 strikeouts in 25 at-bats in
the postseason and had surgery in January to repair a torn
labrum in his left hip.  Baseball is investigating Rodriguez’s link to a now-shuttered anti-aging clinic in Florida that the Miami New Times
said provided players with performance-enhancing drugs.  The Yankees have been plagued by injuries this season.
Still on the disabled list are catcher  Francisco Cervelli ,
center fielder  Curtis Granderson , shortstops  Derek Jeter  and
Jayson Nix, pitcher Michael Pineda, first baseman Mark Teixeira
and third baseman Kevin Youkilis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  