-- Russians Fight Indian Billionaires for Old Master Records
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2013-07-04T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/russians-fight-indian-billionaires-for-old-master-records.html
Russian-speaking buyers spent more
than 15 million pounds ($22.6 million) at an auction as a record
number of bidders from emerging economies bought  Old Masters .  A Russian buyer, represented on the telephone, fought off
an Asian underbidder to pay a top price of 9.2 million pounds at
Sotheby’s  London  on July 3 for a canvas of St. Dominic by the
Spanish artist El Greco. The price, almost double the high
estimate, set an auction record for the 16th-century painter. The
same buyer spent another 3.4 million pounds on a crucifixion
scene by El Greco.  “Russians are getting into Old Masters,” the Amsterdam-based art consultant Johan Bosch van Rosenthal said. “They’re
well-advised and are buying the triple-A lots. They’re spreading
their wealth by buying top-quality in any area of the market.”  Though less fashionable than contemporary art, the market
for historic works is attracting billionaire trophy hunters. The
most desirable Old Masters have a reputation for being a more
stable store of value than 21st-century pieces. New buyers are
attracted by famous names and subjects with a modern,
“crossover” appeal, dealers said.  Cretan-born El Greco influenced Picasso, the Surrealists
and other 20th-century artists. The painting of St. Dominic
hadn’t been seen at auction before, having been in the
collection of the late German philanthropist Gustav Rau.
Proceeds from its sale will benefit Unicef.  International Demand  Sotheby’s (BID)  sale, in line with its upper estimate, raised 35
million pounds with fees from 47 lots. At least eight of these,
worth 15.8 million pounds, were bought by Russian-speaking
telephone bidders.  Clients from 33 countries participated in the sale with a
record number of registered bidders from  Asia  and the  Middle
East , said the New York-based auction house. Buyers were found
for 79 percent of the lots, slightly higher than the 78 percent
at the company’s evening contemporary-art sale last week.
Sotheby’s said that almost 30 percent of the works were bought
by clients from the former CIS states.  The other standout result of the night was the record 5.3
million pounds paid for a rediscovered view of Avignon by the
18th-century French painter Claude-Joseph Vernet.  The artist’s only known painting of his home, this 1757 
canvas hadn’t been seen at auction for more than two centuries 
and was valued at as much as 5 million pounds. It was bought by 
a bidder in the room who declined to reveal his identity.  The previous evening, Christie’s International struggled to
find buyers for a 52-lot selection of Old Masters. With a
smaller proportion of new-to-the market items appealing to an
up-and-coming wave of international bidders, the event raised
23.9 million pounds with fees against a minimum valuation of
29.5 million pounds.  Steen, Canaletto  A painting by Jan Steen of the artist eating oysters was
the priciest of the evening’s 16 casualties. Despite being kept
untouched in an English country house for the last 250 years,
“Easy Come, Easy Go” failed to attract any bidding after being
estimated at as much as 10 million pounds, a record bracket for
the 17th-century Dutch artist.  Christie’s top lot was instead the Canaletto canvas “The
Molo,  Venice , From the Bacino di San Marco,” which was pushed
by two phone bidders to 8.5 million pounds. Not seen on the 
market for about 40 years, this classic picture-postcard view 
by the artist was all the more desirable for being in pristine 
condition, dealers said.  Indian Billionaire  Adar Poonawalla, son of the Indian biotech billionaire
Cyrus Poonawalla, was in the room and bought two paintings of
heads of bearded men. The first, catalogued being by the studio
of Rembrandt, cost 59,475 pounds; the second, catalogued as a
Titian, went for 781,875 pounds. Both sold for more than
estimates.  With bidders thin on the ground for more affordable Old 
Masters, there may well be bargains to be had, particularly when 
works are being sold at auction without reserve prices.   An English “connoisseur’s” collection of 400 drawings,
mostly Italian 17th century, is being offered today at
Sotheby’s. Accumulated by the Newcastle-based academic Ralph
Holland, these range in estimate from 800 pounds to 80,000
pounds. Only about a third of the 253 lots carry reserves.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of  Bloomberg News . Opinions expressed
are his own.)  Muse highlights include London and  New York   weekend guides ,
 Scott Reyburn  on the art market,  Warwick Thompson  on U.K.
theater,  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater and  Martin Gayford  on
U.K. art exhibitions.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 