-- Russia June Inflation Slows to Six-Month Low as Food Prices Ease
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-07-04T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/russia-june-inflation-slows-to-six-month-low-as-food-prices-ease.html
Russian  inflation  decelerated from a
21-month high as costs for food eased as policy makers wait for
a sustained decline in price growth to cut  interest rates .  Consumer prices grew 6.9 percent in June, the slowest this
year on an annual basis, compared with 7.4 percent in May, the
Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said by e-mail today.
Economists forecast a slowdown to 7 percent, according to the
median of 23 estimates in a Bloomberg  survey .  Central bank Chairman  Elvira Nabiullina  is preparing to
lead her first meeting on interest rates in the first half of
July amid calls from the government for easing to stimulate
lending as the economy slows. Policy makers have held their main
rates since a quarter-point increase in September as inflation
exceeded the top end of this year’s target range.  “We can expect the emergence of a downward trend,”
Tatiana Orlova, a strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in  London , said by e-mail before the release. “In June, food-price growth most likely already halted.”  Consumer prices advanced 0.4 percent in the month,
according to the statement. Economists forecast a 0.5 percent
increase, according to the median of 19 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey.  Core inflation , which strips out volatile costs
including fuel and some food items, advanced 0.3 percent in the
month, unchanged from May.  Food Prices  Food prices advanced 8 percent from a year earlier, down
from 9.2 percent in May, according to the service. That was also
the the slowest pace this year, according to data  compiled  by
Bloomberg.  The ruble weakened 0.1 percent to 33.1720 against the
dollar as of 3:31 p.m. in Moscow. Yields on 10-year Russian
 government bonds  rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
to 7.44 percent.  The three-month MosPrime rate, which large Moscow banks
charge each other, may decline 22 basis points in the next three
months from 7.02 percent today, according to forward-rate
agreements tracked by Bloomberg.  Analysts forecast the central bank will cut the overnight
and one-week repurchase rates, the main tools used to provide
banks with cash, by a quarter point in the third quarter and the
fourth quarter before going on hold for 2014, according to a
Bloomberg survey last week.  Russia’s gross domestic product growth slowed to 1.6
percent in the first quarter, the weakest since the economy
pulled out of a 2009 recession.  Inflation may slow to within Bank Rossii’s target range of
5 percent to 6 percent in September or October, central bank
Chairman Sergey Ignatiev told reporters last month before his
term ended. Policy makers missed that target last year, with
consumer prices advancing 6.6 percent.  “The central bank will probably wait until inflation nears
6 percent,” said Vladimir Pantyushin, chief economist for
Russia at Barclays Plc’s investment banking unit in Moscow. “I
wouldn’t expect the central bank to come out and take any steps
in advance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  