-- Russian Urals Crude Oil Premium Rises to 20-Year High
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2013-07-04T16:34:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/russian-urals-crude-oil-premium-rises-to-20-year-high.html
Russian Urals crude jumped to the
highest premium to Dated Brent in at least 20 years after a
decline in seaborne exports.  Urals was at 73 cents a barrel more than Dated Brent in the
Mediterranean, the highest since at least July 1991 when
Bloomberg started tracking the data. Over the past two decades,
Urals has usually traded at a discount to Brent, averaging
almost $4 less than the North Sea benchmark in 2005.  The strength in the Urals price this month coincides with a
plunge in combined exports from the Baltic Sea port of Primorsk
and the Black Sea terminal Novorossiysk to the lowest in at
least five years.  “This is to do with a boost to domestic refineries in
summer, and  Russia  is also hiking exports to  China ” while
slowing exports into  Europe , said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst
at VTB Capital in London.  Russia plans to export 905,610 barrels a day of Urals from
Primorsk in July, the lowest in more than five years, and less
than 1 million barrels a day for a second consecutive month,
according to data complied by Bloomberg based on loading
programs.  Urals exports from Novorossiysk for July will be 8 percent
less from June, at 693,276 barrels a day. Combined daily exports
from the two ports will be 1.6 million barrels, down 21 percent
from 2.02 million a year earlier, the data show.  Russia’s Refineries  The demand from domestic refineries, which are running at
full steam, is outpacing growth in crude supply, analysts led by
 David Wech  at Vienna-based consultant JBC Energy GmbH said in a
report today.  Russia’s available oil-refining capacity hit a 17-week high
on July 3,  data  from the country’s Energy Ministry show today.
Crude deliveries to refiners in June were up 3.4 percent from a
year earlier.  JBC estimated the seaborne exports for Urals will drop to a
multiyear low in July, about 400,000 barrels a day less than a
year earlier.  One reason is that some Russian crude is being redirected
to Asian markets with East Siberian-Pacific Pipeline, or ESPO
crude exports to Kozmino on the Pacific coast almost 150,000
barrels a day higher than year-earlier levels. The amount sent
through the Druzhba pipeline has also increased as a result of
new direct agreements between Russian suppliers and Polish and
Czech refiners, the report said.  Less Kazakh  “Kazakh and Azeri volumes blended into the Urals stream
may have also seen a decline in line with disappointing output
and some volumes re-routed to  Asia ,” JBC said.  These three reasons; the redirection to Asia, increased
Druzhba flows and reduced quantities of Caspian oil, may account
for 300,000 barrels a day, which explains the fall in Urals
exports by sea, the Vienna-based consultant said.  The particularly low July loadings may also partly reflect
one-time effects of a reallocation in domestic supply patterns
related to OAO Rosneft’s takeover of TNK-BP.  OAO Lukoil yesterday failed to buy 80,000 metric tons of
Urals for loading on July 15 to July 19 at 70 cents a barrel
more than Dated Brent on a delivered basis to Augusta,  Italy ,
according to a Bloomberg survey of traders and brokers
monitoring the Platts pricing window. This was the highest bid
in more than three years. Dated Brent was $105.88 a barrel 
as of 5:30 p.m. in  London , according to data compiled by 
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  