-- Saudi Investment Bank Hits 5-Year High on Earnings: Riyadh Mover
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-07-04T10:52:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/saudi-investment-bank-hits-5-year-high-on-earnings-riyadh-mover.html
Saudi Investment Bank, a commercial
lender in the biggest Arab economy, jumped to the highest level
in almost five years after second-quarter profit beat estimates.  The shares rose 2.5 percent to 22.9 riyals, the highest
intraday level since September 2008, at 12:03 p.m. in  Riyadh .
Over half a million shares were traded, more than double the
three-month average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Saudi Investment Bank’s shares have soared 26 percent this
year, outpacing the 13 percent increase for the benchmark
Tadawul All Share Index. Quarterly net income surged 44 percent
to  320 million riyals  ($85.4 million) from a year earlier,
beating the 297 million-riyal  median estimate  of three analysts
on Bloomberg. Special commission and investment income rose 12
percent to 343.4 million riyals in the period.  The lender reported “another set of very impressive
results,” Jaap Meijer, director of equity research at Dubai-based investment bank Arqaam Capital Ltd., said in a report
today. “The surprise is mainly due to continued strong other
operating income that may still be coming from investment
income, while provision charges are very low.”  Saudi Arabia plans to spend more than $500 billion on
infrastructure as it seeks to diversify the economy and create
jobs, boosting the demand for loans. Bank credit to the private
sector jumped 17 percent in the 12 months to May, central bank
data show.  Two analysts  recommend  investors buy the shares of  Saudi
Investment Bank (SIBC) , while four, including Meijer, have a hold
rating on the stock, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The stock will outperform in the short-run, particularly
given the strong results for the second consecutive quarter,”
Mahmood Akbar, an analyst at NCB Capital, said in an e-mailed
note dated today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  