-- Schaeuble Says KfW to Boost Spanish SME Lending and Growth
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-07-04T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/schaeuble-says-kfw-to-boost-spanish-sme-lending-and-growth.html
Germany  wants to boost lending and
hiring in the euro region’s fourth-biggest economy by giving
Spanish  development bank  ICO cheap loans from German state-owned
lender KfW Group, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said.  The loan agreement was signed today in Berlin by KfW head
Ulrich Schroeder and ICO chief Roman Escolano, the  Finance
Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement. ICO will receive an 800
million-euro ($1 billion) blanket loan that’s to be disbursed to
small- and medium-sized enterprises in  Spain  by the country’s
commercial banks.  “We want to provide easier financing to companies that
have a solid business model and good growth prospects,”
Schaeuble said, according to the statement. “They are to
increase hiring again and especially create jobs and training
positions for young people.”  Schaeuble, Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos, German
Economy Minister Philipp Roesler and Spain’s Industry Minister
Jose Manuel Soria met in Berlin today for the signing. The show
of solidarity comes 11 weeks before German elections and amid
pressure on Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government to do more to
ease the euro region’s debt crisis.  Merkel and mostly southern European leaders gathered in
Berlin yesterday to seek ways to better fight youth
unemployment. Schaeuble and French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici , at a May 28 meeting in Paris, singled out higher
company financing costs in southern  Europe  as an obstacle to
economic recovery.  Cost Differences  Differing costs of financing for euro-region companies are
a “serious issue,” European Investment Bank chief Werner Hoyer
said at the Paris meeting. “If we don’t stabilize” the
situation for small and medium-sized enterprises, “we won’t
stop unemployment in Europe.”  The Bank of Spain last week said indicators suggest the
recession is abating after seven straight quarters of
 contraction . Exports rose to a record last year, while the
country in March posted its first  trade surplus  since at least
1971.  “The agreement signed today is an important support for
small and medium enterprises, which are the largest source of
 job creation ,” de Guindos said in the statement. While Spain
has made great efforts to return to faster growth and job
creation, “important challenges,” such as the fight against
unemployment, remain.  De Guindos said last month the  Spanish economy  will begin
to grow again this quarter after a double recession added 4.4
million people to the  jobless ranks  over the past six years. The
economy will contract 1.7 percent in 2013 before expanding 0.4
percent next year, the Paris-based OECD said in its May 29
Global Economic Outlook.  ‘Long Route’  Schaeuble has started similar lending programs with
Portugal and  Greece  in an effort to bypass “the long route
through European institutions” that’s hampering a faster
recovery in the south.  In a May 21 letter to Roesler, with whom he shares
oversight over KfW, Schaeuble expressed hope for “quicker
support with tangible, psychologically effective results in a
manageable period of time.”  “I think it’s a bit of everything for Germany: to show
good will, vent anger over too little progress at the European
level and to export more elements of the successful German
model,”  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING Groep NV in
Brussels, said in an e-mailed answer to questions on today’s
meeting. “Of course, it is the proverbial drop in the bucket,
but something is better than nothing.”  The euro-area economy will probably shrink for a second
year while unemployment will average 12.2 percent, the European
Commission said May 3 in a forecast. Joblessness among people
younger than 25 in the euro area rose to 23.9 percent in May,
compared with 23 percent a year earlier, according to Eurostat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  