-- Schaeuble, de Guindos Meet Amid German Show of Solidarity
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-07-04T11:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/schaeuble-de-guindos-meet-amid-german-show-of-solidarity.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and his Spanish counterpart Luis de Guindos meet in
Berlin later today as  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government
seeks to raise its profile as promoter of euro-region growth.  The ministers will be joined by the chiefs of the
countries’ state-owned development banks and Cabinet members for
the signing of a loan agreement to benefit Spanish small- and
medium-sized enterprises, which are suffering from a financing
squeeze that threatens the country’s emergence from recession.  Today’s meeting, 11 weeks before German elections, follows
a gathering attended by Merkel and mostly southern European
leaders in Berlin yesterday that sought to intensify the fight
against youth unemployment. Schaeuble and French Finance
Minister  Pierre Moscovici , at a May 28 meeting in Paris, singled
out higher company financing costs in southern  Europe  as an
obstacle to economic recovery.  “I think it’s a bit of everything for  Germany : to show
good will, vent anger over too little progress at the European
level and to export more elements of the successful German
model,”  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING Groep NV in
Brussels, said in an e-mailed answer to questions. “Of course,
it is the proverbial drop in the bucket, but something is better
than nothing.”  German state-owned lender KfW Group will provide Spanish
development bank ICO with an 800 million-euro ($1 billion)
blanket loan that can be disbursed to SMEs in  Spain  through
commercial banks. The goal is to promote investments and new
jobs in Spain, the German Finance Ministry said in a July 2
statement.  Cost Differences  Differing costs of financing for euro-region companies are
a “serious issue,” European Investment Bank chief Werner Hoyer
said at the May 28 Paris meeting . “If we don’t stabilize” the
situation for small and medium-sized enterprises, “we won’t
stop unemployment in Europe.”  The Bank of Spain last week said indicators suggest the
recession is abating after seven straight quarters of
 contraction . Exports rose to a record last year, while the
country in March posted its first  trade surplus  since at least
1971.  De Guindos said last month the  Spanish economy  will begin
to grow again this quarter after a double recession added 4.4
million people to the  jobless ranks  over the past six years. The
economy will contract 1.7 percent in 2013 before expanding 0.4
percent next year, the Paris-based OECD said in its May 29
Global Economic Outlook.  Greece, Portugal  Schaeuble has started similar lending programs with
Portugal and  Greece  in an effort to bypass “the long route
through European institutions” that’s hampering a faster
recovery in the south.  In a May 21 letter to German Economy Minister Philipp Roesler, who’s also present at the signing today, Schaeuble
expressed hope for “quicker support with tangible,
psychologically effective results in a manageable period of
time.”  The euro-area economy will probably shrink for a second
year while unemployment will average 12.2 percent, the European
Commission said May 3 in a forecast. Joblessness among people
younger than 25 in the euro area rose to 23.9 percent in May,
compared with 23 percent a year earlier, according to Eurostat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  