-- Shadow Bank Assault Backfires as Rates Lure Cash: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-04T02:29:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/shadow-bank-assault-backfires-as-rates-lure-cash-china-credit.html
China’s crackdown on shadow banking
is backfiring as a plunge in stocks prompts individual investors
to pump increasing amounts of cash into wealth management
products that offer yields more than double the  deposit rate .  A record 1,137 of the investment plans were sold by about
70 banks in the last two weeks, almost 50 percent more than the
similar period ended June 14, according to Benefit Wealth, a
Chengdu-based consulting firm tracking the industry since 2007.
 China Minsheng Banking Corp. (1988) , the nation’s first privately owned
lender, last week sold a 35-day product with an annualized yield
of 7 percent.  The People’s Bank of China allowed the worst cash crunch in
at least a decade and warned lenders to avoid raising short-term
money to finance long-term loans. While the two-week surge in
borrowing costs was designed to reduce such risky positions, the
initial impact was to drive investors out of a plunging stock
market and into the so-called shadow banking system. The
Shanghai Composite index fell 14 percent in June as the
benchmark overnight money market  rate  touched a record 13.91
percent on June 20.  “Wealth management products keep getting money from
investors who want some decent returns on their savings but
don’t want to lose any more money in the stock market,” said
Chen Xingyu, a Shanghai-based analyst at Phillip Securities
Group, part of PhillipCapital Ltd. which oversees more than $22
billion in assets. “Clearly, there are credit risks associated
with these products. The PBOC’s strategy is to ask banks to do a
better job in risk management and to limit the rapid growth of
the market.”  Rising Trend  The outstanding amount of wealth management products rose
by 500 billion  yuan  ($82 billion) to 13 trillion yuan in the
first five months of this year, accounting for 16 percent of
China’s deposits, according to estimates published by Fitch
Ratings on June 10. This compares with a 4 trillion yuan
increase for all of last year, the rating company said. Products
linked to bonds and money market investments were offered at an
average yield of 5.11 percent last week, up 96 basis points from
a month earlier, according to Benefit Wealth. China’s one-year
benchmark deposit rate is 3 percent.  Regulators are forcing trust funds and wealth management
plans to shift assets into publicly traded securities, seeking
to get a firmer grip on investment by property developers and
local-government finance vehicles. The China Banking Regulatory
Commission told banks in March to cap investments of client
money in debt that isn’t publicly traded at 35 percent of all
funds raised from the sale of wealth products.  Underlying Assets  The crackdown has had some success. Official data on June 9
showed that trust company lending, often repackaged into wealth
products and sold to investors, fell to 99.2 billion yuan in
May. This accounted for 8.4 percent of  aggregate financing , a
measure of credit that includes all loans, stock and bond sales,
from 16 percent in December.  Although the country’s overnight and seven-day repurchase
rates have come down from the highs of June 20, the central bank
may continue to limit money supply, according to Wilson Li, a
Shenzhen-based analyst at Guotai Junan Securities Co. It will
also restrain the expansion of shadow banking vehicles.  “The surge in issuance was driven by investors’ demand as
rises in the money rates lift the returns on these products,”
he said. “But, in the long run, the supply side will be the
deciding factor on the future of the market as the government
controls its expansion. Some of the mid-sized banks have already
cut their issuances.”  Money Market  China’s one-day repurchase rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, rose 60 basis points, or 0.60 percentage
point, to 3.37 percent in  Shanghai  as of 10:01 a.m. according to
a weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. That’s higher than the 2.91 percent average over the
past year.  Credit markets have settled with the easing of the cash
crunch. The yield for 10-year government debt has dropped 18
basis points to 3.53 percent from a 19-month high on June 20,
Chinabond data showed. The yuan appreciated 1.2 percent last
quarter and 0.06 percent today to 6.1273 against the dollar,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  The  cost of insuring  sovereign notes in China against non-payment has declined after reaching a 17-month high of 147 on
June 24, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. It rose seven basis points to 123
yesterday.  Stock Slump  The benchmark  Shanghai Composite index  of stocks plunged
the most last month since August 2009 and fell 0.7 percent
today. Chinese shares are near the  cheapest  compared with AAA-rated bonds since 2006. Yields on 10-year AAA-rated corporate
notes rose seven basis points in the past month to 5.11 percent
on July 2, ChinaBond data show. That’s 4.2 percentage points
less than the Shanghai Composite Index’s  earnings yield , or
profit per share divided by the share price.  The slump hasn’t made stocks attractive because the extent
of China’s economic slowdown and its control over escalating
debt is unclear, according to Coutts & Co., which has a neutral
to underweight position on the country’s shares.  “I don’t think the policy makers are in so much control as
they may have been in the past,” said Gary Dugan, Singapore-based chief investment officer for Asia and the Middle East at
Coutts, which counts Queen Elizabeth II among its clients.
“It’s not a grownup country if you have to ramp up your
interest rates to slap everyone down.”  Slowing Economy  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. last month cut its 2013 expansion
forecast for the Chinese economy to 7.4 percent from 7.8
percent, while  China  International Capital Corp. lowered its
projection to 7.4 percent from 7.7 percent. Coutts’ Dugan said
GDP growth will stay below 7 percent.  Chinese investors opened an average of 92,015 new stock
accounts per week in June, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compared with the average of 170,219 in March,
one month after the Shanghai Composite Index rose to the highest
this year. The measure’s market capitalization plunged to 14.11
trillion yuan yesterday from 16.25 trillion yuan on May 31.  Shadow lending, which allows banks to bypass controls and
capital requirements, is flourishing in China because an
estimated 97 percent of the nation’s 42 million small businesses
can’t get bank loans, according to Citic Securities Co. The
industry may be valued at 36 trillion yuan, or 69 percent of
gross domestic product, JPMorgan Chase & Co. estimated in May.  Bad Loans  Chinese commercial banks’ outstanding non-performing loans
rose 20 percent to 526.5 billion yuan at the end of the first
quarter from a year earlier, accounting for 0.96 percent of
total lending, according to data from the CBRC.  Those figures don’t reflect the real amount of debt because
of the ways in which banks move loans off their books, Charlene Chu, Fitch’s Beijing-based head of China financial institutions,
said in April. Some loans are bundled and sold to savers as
wealth-management products, she said. Other assets are offloaded
to non-bank institutions, including trusts, to lower bad-debt
levels.  “The central bank is trying to clean up the house and put
the industry back on the right track,” said Phillip Securities’
Chen. “But, in the foreseeable future, Chinese people are just
going to keep buying those products as they’ll probably make
more money with less risk than betting on stocks themselves.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  