-- South Africa Mining Pact Unlikely to Quell Unrest, Eurasia Says
-- B y   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n
-- 2013-07-04T09:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/south-africa-mining-pact-unlikely-to-quell-unrest-eurasia-says.html
A government-led agreement designed
to bring stability to South Africa’s mining industry will do
little to deter strikes or temper wage negotiations, according
to analysts.  The Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union, the
biggest labor group at the world’s three largest platinum mines,
yesterday refused to sign the deal.  “Even if AMCU signs on later, the pact does little to
resolve the turf war between rival unions or moderate wage
demands, and labor unrest remains likely during upcoming
negotiations over recognition and wages,” Mark Rosenberg, a
senior Africa analyst at Eurasia Group, wrote in a note to
clients.  Labor rivalry spurred President  Jacob Zuma  to appoint
Deputy President  Kgalema Motlanthe  to broker a solution by
hosting the talks between the unions and companies. Disputes
have led to three worker deaths since May and cut 0.3 percentage
point off growth this year. That followed the killings of at
least 44 people, including 34 killed by police in one day, near
the South African operations of  Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the third-largest
platinum producer, last year.  AMCU leaders left yesterday’s meeting in  Pretoria , the
capital, without signing. Other  labor organizations , mining
companies, and government departments signed the pact.  “There’s a high probability we’re going to see strikes
across the mining sector simply because the guys want money and
the operators can’t afford to give it,” said Maurice Mason, a
London-based mining analyst at Peel Hunt LLP.  Objections Raised  The rand depreciated 0.2 percent 10.0688 per dollar at 9:58
a.m. in Johannesburg, extending its drop this year to 16
percent, the most among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  “We’re leaving,” AMCU President Joseph Mathunjwa said
yesterday when asked whether the union would sign the accord.  The union raised objections over the dismissal of about
1,000 of its members at  Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) ’s South African
chrome mines and the loss of jobs at the Vaal River operations
of  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  this year,  Lesiba Seshoka , spokesman
for the rival  National Union of Mineworkers , said at the
meeting. The AMCU also spoke out against the NUM’s Labour Court
application on the validity of membership forms at Lonmin, and
asked to consult with members on the pact, he said.  “They’ve got other issues but they’re raising them at the
wrong platform,” Seshoka said.  A previous attempt to restore peace in mines in the nation,
which has the world’s biggest known reserves of platinum, failed
even as all unions, including the AMCU, and the biggest mine
operators agreed to the pact, which Susan Shabangu, the
country’s mines minister, brokered in February and March.  No Option  “Failure is not an option as this will accelerate the
creeping destruction of one of  South Africa ’s most important
industries and inhibit the investment support that the country
so urgently needs,” Bheki Sibiya, chief executive officer of
the Chamber of Mines, which represents companies in the
industry, wrote July 2 in the Johannesburg-based Business Day
newspaper.  Falling precious-metal prices and higher costs have
squeezed South Africa’s gold and platinum producers, who are
facing demands from labor unions to as much as double wages for
entry-level workers. More than half of South Africa’s gold and
platinum operations are in loss-making positions, Sibiya said.  Yesterday’s pact sets out processes that will see that all
parties working together to ensure stability in mines, according
to a statement handed to reporters in Pretoria.  The “government will act decisively to enforce the rule of
law, maintain peace during strikes and other protests relating
to labor disputes, ensure protection of life, property and the
advancement of the rights of all,” it said.  The AMCU’s leadership asked to be given the chance to
consult with its members, Motlanthe said.  “They have nothing against the framework,” Motlanthe told
reporters, referring to the AMCU. “It is theirs as much as it
is ours. They had no preconditions. Investors are not interested
in this document, they’re interested in a stable  mining
industry .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  