-- Impey Becomes First South African Rider to Lead Tour de France
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-07-04T23:48:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/sprinter-greipel-wins-tour-de-france-stage-after-cavendish-falls.html
Andre Greipel won the sixth stage of
the  Tour de France  in a sprint finish after  Mark Cavendish  was
set back by a crash. Daryl Impey became the first South African
to take the race-leading yellow jersey.  Greipel, of the Lotto-Belisol team, powered to the line
yesterday after a 110-mile (177 kilometer) ride on mainly flat
roads between Aix-en-Provence and Montpellier. Peter Sagan was
second and Marcel Kittel third.  Cavendish, a 24-time stage winner from the U.K. who rides
for the Omega Pharma-Quick Step team, finished fourth after
crashing with 20 miles left.  Impey, 28,  takes over the lead  from Orica-GreenEdge
teammate Simon Gerrans after finishing in the chasing pack
behind the leading sprinters. He holds a three-second advantage
over Team Sky’s Edvald Boasson Hagen, and Gerrans is two seconds
further back in third.  “I was pretty emotional on the podium,” Impey said in
comments in his  team’s website . “This is the proudest moment
ever of my career. I don’t think anything will ever top this.
That’s not to say I’ll never be able to do it again, but not in
this way. It’s like winning the jackpot.”  Greipel won by about a bike’s length from Sagan, who had
his third top-three finish of the 100th edition of the race. In
a televised interview, Greipel said he hadn’t been aware of
Cavendish’s crash, which left the British rider with a ripped
jersey.  Janez Brajkovic of Astana was among other riders to fall
yesterday in another setback for the Kazakh team which already
lost two of its nine riders through injury. Brajkovic got up
slowly before finishing the stage.  Froome Seventh  Race favorite Chris Froome remains seventh and is eight
seconds off the lead, with a six-second advantage over two-time
champion  Alberto Contador .  Froome, a Kenya-born Briton who was second last year, is
the favorite to win the race, according to seven bookmakers’
odds on  oddschecker.com .  Spain ’s Contador is the second
favorite. The 2012 champion Bradley Wiggins is absent because of
injury.  Today’s stage is a 128-mile ride on rolling terrain between
Montpellier and Albi.  The Tour, which covers 2,116 miles, ends July 21 in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  