-- Stones in Park, Pinter, Wimbledon Peaks: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2013-07-04T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/stones-in-park-pinter-wimbledon-peaks-london-weekend.html
The Rolling Stones in Hyde Park,
Wimbledon’s finale, vintage Pinter and an exhibition about El
Bulli are our choices for  London  this weekend.  STAGE  Simon Russell Beale runs a creepy institution filled with
drunks, plotters, and a nymphomaniac.  In Harold Pinter’s “The Hothouse” (ending Aug. 3), Beale
struggles to keep his hare-brained staffers in check. The play
was written in 1958 and stashed away by Pinter for 22 years
until he staged it himself at the Hampstead Theatre.  Jamie Lloyd’s  production  makes “The Hothouse” seem
current -- and has you laughing throughout. It’s part of his
“Trafalgar Transformed” season at the  Trafalgar Studios :
 http://www.atgtickets.com  or +44-844-871-7622.  DINING  Aqua Shard, the last of a group of three restaurants in the
new London skyscraper, opened this week. Serving British food,
Aqua follows Oblix (an American grill) and Hutong (with northern
Chinese cuisine). Look out for additional dining options when
the  Shangri-La Hotel  opens later this year. Information: +44-20-7478 0540 or  http://www.aquashard.co.uk/ .  To watch Wimbledon in style, try the Strawberries and
Screen pop-up bar. This outdoor venue on Granary Square, King’s
Cross is set up by Rotunda Restaurant & Bar. You’ll follow the
tennis from a deck chair and wash the berries down with
Champagne, Pimm’s, or whatever else you drink on a summer’s day:
 http://www.rotundabarandrestaurant.co.uk/docs/Wimbledon.pdf .  VISUAL ARTS  Composer Philip Glass wears a worried look and a fluffy
sweater in an oil-on-polyester portrait you can see for free.  It was one of 55 finalists in the  BP Portrait Award  (and
should have won). Other strong contenders: a painting of the
bespectacled MIT Professor Noam Chomsky, showing just three-quarters of his face; and Geert Schless’s striking portrait of
his wife, with a trash bag over her head.  The prize went to “Pieter,” a portrait of the artist’s son,
by Susanne du Toit. You can see the show for free at the
National Portrait Gallery through Sept. 15. Information:
 http://www.npg.org.uk  or call +44-20-7306-0055.  MUSIC  The Rolling Stones are in London after Glastonbury to wrap
up their “50 and Counting” tour, possibly their final live
shows ever. The Stones last played in the park in 1969 in a free
show to introduce guitarist Mick Taylor, the replacement for
Brian Jones, who had just died.  Sharing the bill at the new Barclaycard British Summer Time
festival in Hyde Park: Bon Jovi, Kaiser Chiefs and Bush (July
5). The Stones are supported by the Vaccines and Temper Trap
July 6, and the Sunday show has the Beach Boys, JLS and Paul
Young. While some dates are sold out, tickets are available
online from resellers for about 200 pounds ($301).  Information:  http://www.bst-hydepark.com/   OTHER LONDON OUTINGS  El Bulli -- voted five times the world’s best restaurant --
is the focus of an exhibition opening at Somerset House today.
Chef Ferran Adria, who closed the establishment in northern
Spain two years ago, is in London to promote “El Bulli: Ferran
Adria and the Art of Food” (through Sept. 29).  Just don’t expect any food: This is a multimedia display of
El Bulli history and the creative process behind the gastronomy.
There are models of dishes, original menus, and tables set with
cutlery. Information:  http://bit.ly/13lTuY7 .  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include London and  New York   weekend guides ,
 Scott Reyburn  on the art market,  Warwick Thompson  on U.K.
theater and  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 