-- Subbarao Says RBI Uses All Instruments to Curb Swings in Rupee
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   G a n e s h   N a g a r a j a n
-- 2013-07-04T09:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/subbarao-says-rbi-uses-all-instruments-to-curb-swings-in-rupee.html
Reserve Bank  of India Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao comments on the rupee, monetary policy, bank
transmission and bank licenses. He was speaking to reporters in
Chennai today after the central bank’s board meeting.  On rupee:  “On the volatility of the rupee, I can’t say anything more
than the standard policy of the Reserve Bank, which is that we
employ instruments available to us in order to manage volatility.
We don’t have an exchange-rate target. We do not have an
exchange-rate band.  “We try to manage volatility in the currency movement. We
use all the instruments at our command. I have nothing new to
say on that.”  On monetary policy:  “The objectives of monetary policy are  price stability ,
growth and financial stability as we said several times.  “The challenge for monetary policy is to balance between
these objectives.  “The short point is that we are very conscious of the need
to be supportive of growth, but supportive of growth in an
environment of price stability and financial stability.”  On new bank licenses:  “An initial review of applications and requirement of
further inputs from the applicants would take three to four
months. After this, the applications would be sent to an
external committee to screen the applications and make
recommendations. The RBI would then take a decision on the final
licenses.  “On the number of final licenses to be given, we have no
number at the moment. We will have to see the quality of
applications.  “It is true that not all eligible applicants may end up
getting bank licenses.”  On monetary transmission:  “When the Reserve Bank calibrates its short-term policy
interest rates, the expectation is that monetary transmission
will take place and banks will respond by calibrating their
lending rates with the long-end of the yield curve. Some banks
have responded and some have not.”  On monsoon rains and monetary policy:  “Among other things, the RBI also watches monsoon movement
because our economic conditions, particularly the economic
conditions of the poorer segments of the population, are
determined by the behavior of the monsoon because that
determines the agricultural output and the rural economy. The
RBI closely monitors and follows the monsoon performance. That
is an important factor but by no means the only factor.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;
Ganesh Nagarajan in Chennai at 
 gnagarajan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  