-- Borg Warns of Great Risks in Markets as Sweden Prepares to Spend
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-07-04T12:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/sweden-s-borg-raises-unemployment-forecast-amid-slow-recovery.html
Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg
warned market turmoil could deepen over the second half of the
year and pledged an expansive fiscal policy to hold back
climbing unemployment in the largest Nordic economy.  “There’s a significant risk that things get messy in the
financial markets this autumn, that money simply rushes out of
weaker countries in Europe back home to the U.S.,” he said
today to reporters in Visby,  Sweden . “Then we’ll see renewed
pressure on primarily Greece and Portugal and Spain. If those
countries at the same time contribute toward political worry,
well then things could be relatively messy during the autumn.”  The Swedish finance minister also today predicted higher
unemployment this year while keeping estimates for economic
growth little changed as the euro-area crisis weighs on a
recovery. The  economy  will expand 1.3 percent this year and 2.1
percent in 2014, compared with April forecasts of 1.2 percent
and 2.2 percent, the government said. Unemployment will rise to
8.4 percent this year, versus an 8.3 percent April forecast.  Sweden’s  exports , which account for about half of its $540
billion economy, have fallen as the euro-area struggles with a
recession.  Ericsson AB (ERICB) , the world’s largest maker of mobile
networks, and other companies have been forced to cut jobs to
cope with falling demand.  Downside Dominates  Sweden is in a strong position to support the economic
recovery, Borg said today even as downside risk dominates,
citing concerns over the crisis in the euro area,  Japan  and the
Chinese banking system.  Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt yesterday outlined further
measures for job creation to help companies hire and train
unemployed youth. He also said the government, which is trailing
in the polls ahead of next year’s election, will cut fees on
unemployment insurance programs. It today revised its forecast
for employment to grow 0.3 percent next year, after earlier
predicting a decline.  The four-party coalition government is spending 25 billion
kronor ($3.7 billion), or 0.7 percent of gross domestic product,
this year on infrastructure, education, research and a lower
corporate tax to boost growth and cut  unemployment .  Narrower Deficits  The government today predicted budget deficits of 1.3
percent this year and 0.8 percent next year. That’s narrower
than the 1.6 percent and 1 percent shortfalls predicted in
April.  Consumer prices  will rise 0.2 percent this year and 0.9
percent in 2014, the government also said.  Exporters have also been reeling from a strengthening
currency, which rose 31 percent against the euro from the end of
2008 through the middle of March this year as investors poured
funds into Sweden’s AAA rated bonds backed by one of Europe’s
lowest public debt. The krona tumbled last month after the U.S.
Federal Reserve signaled it was prepared to ease stimulus for
the world’s largest economy.  Borg said today that the sell-off may not be over.  “Markets with thinner liquidity like for example the
Scandinavian currencies tend to take a slightly bigger hit in
messy environments,” he said. “If things get messier on the
financial markets that could potentially hit the krona.”  Sweden’s central bank Governor Stefan Ingves said in an
interview yesterday that the economic recovery now stands on a
firmer footing than previously assessed. The Riksbank kept its
repo rate unchanged at 1 percent for a third consecutive meeting
after cutting it four times in a year through December 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Stockholm at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  