-- Swiss Stocks Rise Before ECB Rate Decision; Roche Climbs
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-07-04T07:58:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/swiss-stocks-rise-before-ecb-rate-decision-roche-climbs.html
Stocks in Switzerland  rebounded, with
the benchmark Swiss Market Index rising for the first time in
three days, as investors awaited the European Central Bank’s
interest-rate decision.  Roche (ROG)  Holding AG, the world’s biggest maker of cancer
drugs, climbed 1 percent as Bank of America Corp. added the
stock to its list of most preferred health-care shares. Swatch
Group AG and Cie. Financiere Richemont SA advanced at least 1.5
percent. OC  Oerlikon (OERL)  Corp. increased 1.8 percent after it
completed the sale of its natural-fibers business.  Barry
Callebaut (BARN)  AG gained 1.7 percent.  The  SMI (SMI)  climbed 0.8 percent to 7,735.85 at 9:52 a.m. in
Zurich. The equity benchmark has fallen 8 percent since Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on May 22 that the central
bank may reduce its bond buying if the  U.S. economy  recovers in
line with its forecasts. The broader Swiss Performance Index
also added 0.7 percent today.  Swiss stocks fell yesterday after  Standard & Poor’s 
downgraded the country’s second-largest bank, while a
resignation from Portugal’s government revived concern about its
ability to pursue austerity measures.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 38 percent lower than the 30-day average today, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The ECB will leave its  benchmark interest rate  unchanged at
a record low of 0.5 percent today, according to 61 of 62
forecasts in a Bloomberg  survey  of economists. The central bank
announces the decision at 1:45 p.m. in Frankfurt and President
 Mario Draghi  holds a press conference 45 minutes later.  Portuguese Government  In Portugal, Paulo Portas, the minister whose resignation
this week threatened to bring down the government, will meet
with Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  to try to patch up a
rift that triggered a surge in bond yields.  In Egypt, the army removed President Mohamed Mursi from
power and suspended the constitution. West Texas Intermediate
crude rose for a fourth day amid concern the unrest in the Arab
world’s most populous state will disrupt the supply of oil
through the Suez Canal.  Roche gained 1 percent to 237.40 Swiss francs, contributing
the most to the SMI’s advance, as Bank of America added the
stock to its most preferred health-care shares, saying the
current price represents a buying opportunity.  Swatch, the biggest maker of Swiss watches, increased 1.5
percent to 528.50 francs. Richemont, the owner of the Cartier
brand, added 1.6 percent to 84.35 francs.  Oerlikon Boost  Oerlikon, the maker of textile machinery, added 1.8 percent
to 11.50 francs after it said it will get a 470 million-franc
($495 million) cash boost from the sale of its natural-fibers
business to Jinsheng Group of China. The Jinsheng deal was
announced in December.  “The divestment reduces overall cyclical exposure and thus
risk, which we rate as positive,”  Michael Foeth , an analyst at
Vontobel Holding AG, wrote in a note to clients today.  Barry Callebaut  advanced 1.7 percent to 898.50 francs, even
as the world’s largest maker of bulk chocolate said nine-month
revenue fell 0.5 percent to 3.54 billion francs amid lower
average raw material prices. The company also confirmed its mid-term guidance for average volume growth of 6 percent to 8
percent through 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  