-- Murdoch Agrees to Testify to Parliament as Police Seek Ta
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-07-12T16:59:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/u-k-lawmaker-asks-police-to-quiz-murdoch-over-bribes-comment.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. unit lost a bid to
block the release of police documents in a second phone-hacking
probe to victims in a civil lawsuit.  Justice George Mann ruled in London today that the police
should give the victims the information to assist them in
developing their claims.  “It might be better for” News Corp.’s U.K. unit “for
victims to be in ignorance for a longer rather than a shorter
time, but it can hardly be better for claimants,” Mann said in
a ruling today.  News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  agreed to testify to the
U.K. Parliament for a second time this week after a tape
recording was published by Exaro News in which he complained
about the two-year-old police probes into phone-hacking and
bribery. Cressida Dick, an assistant commissioner of the
Metropolitan Police, told lawmakers the same day that the
company had ceased to cooperate with the probes without court
supervision.  “We appreciate today’s guidance from the court on this
technical issue of law and remain committed to compensating
victims of voicemail-hacking,” News Corp.’s News UK unit said in
an e-mailed statement.  The company argued during hearings that if claimants wanted
to see the evidence, they should file a lawsuit to get
disclosure.  The documents sought in today’s ruling apply to a second
police inquiry, known as Operation Pinetree, which is looking
into phone hacking at the now-defunct News of the World
tabloid’s features desk. Six people were arrested in February in
the probe.  More than 35 people have been arrested in the initial
Operation Weeting probe into phone hacking at the News of the
World.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kit Chellel in  London  at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ; 