-- U.K. House Prices Rise as BOE Gets Mortgages Flowing: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-07-04T10:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/u-k-house-prices-increase-to-highest-in-almost-three-years.html
U.K.  house prices  rose last month to
the highest in almost three years as measures by the  Bank of
England  and the government stimulated property demand.  Home values  increased 0.6 percent from the previous month
to an average 167,984 pounds ($256,000), the highest since
August 2010, Halifax, the mortgage unit of Lloyds Banking Group
Plc said in a statement in  London  today. From a year earlier,
prices rose 4.1 percent.  The  property market  is showing signs of strengthening after
the BOE’s Funding for Lending Scheme helped to lower borrowing
costs and the government set up a program to help people buy
homes. Services, manufacturing and construction all improved in
June, indicating the economic recovery is gaining momentum, and
the central bank said yesterday that mortgage demand rose
“significantly” in the second quarter.  “Improved confidence in both the housing market and the
economy, combined with a shortage of properties available for
sale, appear to be pushing up  house prices ,” said  Martin Ellis ,
housing economist at Halifax. Still, a “subdued economic
background and weak income growth are expected to remain
significant constraints on housing demand.”  With the economy showing signs of improving, economists
forecast that Bank of England policy makers will hold fire on
stimulus today at Governor  Mark Carney ’s first monetary-policy
meeting. The central bank will leave its target for quantitative
easing at 375 billion pounds and the benchmark  interest rate  at
0.5 percent, according to two Bloomberg News surveys.  Building Margins  In the three months through June, house prices rose 2.1
percent from the previous quarter, according to Halifax. From a
year earlier, values were 3.7 percent higher, also the biggest
increase since August 2010.  Taylor Wimpey Plc (TW/) , the U.K’s second-largest homebuilder by
volume, said today that more than 1,000 customers reserved homes
using Help to Buy and a further 232 are seeking approval. It
also said that first-half operating profit margin in the U.K.
was more than 13 percent, up from 11.2 percent a year earlier.
Shares rose 4.8 percent as of 10:35 a.m. London time.  “The government and BOE have thrown the kitchen sink at
the problem of getting bank credit flowing, and it is working in
the housing market,” said Rob Wood, an economist at Berenberg
Bank in London.  Mortgage Approvals  Data this week showed that  mortgage approvals  rose to the
highest since 2009 in May, while a BOE survey yesterday found
banks boosted home-loan availability and lowered borrowing costs
in the second quarter. Lenders also signaled they may increase
the supply of higher loan-to-value mortgages.  Halifax isn’t the only company reporting higher house
prices. Hometrack Ltd. said prices rose 0.4 percent in June,
while  Nationwide Building Society  said last week that property
values rose 0.3 percent last month.  Also today, the  European Central Bank (EURR002W)  will hold its key
interest rate at 0.5 percent, according to 61 of 62 economists
in a Bloomberg survey. Morgan Stanley is the only institution
predicting a reduction, by a quarter point. The bank will
announce the decision at 1:45 p.m. in Frankfurt and President
 Mario Draghi  will hold a press conference 45 minutes later.  U.S. equity markets are closed today for the July 4
holiday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  