-- U.K. Homebuilders Gain as Government Home Loans Lift Demand
-- B y   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-07-04T16:26:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/u-k-homebuilders-gain-as-government-loans-lift-demand-for-homes.html
U.K. homebuilders led by  Redrow Plc (RDW) 
and  Taylor Wimpey Plc (TW/)  gained in London trading after the
government’s Help to Buy loan program boosted demand and helped
lift  house prices  to the highest in almost three years.  Taylor Wimpey gained 7.1 percent, the most in more than a
year, after it reported a widening operating margin in the first
half. Redrow rose 7.2 percent to 237.90 pence after the company
said first-half profit was at the upper end of analysts’
estimates.  “Trading is sustainably better because the government is
backing up a lot of the activity in the sector,” Howard
Seymour, a Numis Securities analyst, said by telephone. “Share
prices have gone up a lot in the sector and valuations are
high.”  Residential property values increased to an average of
167,984 pounds ($256,100) in June, the highest since August
2010, according to a report today by Halifax, the mortgage unit
of Lloyds Banking Group Plc. Purchases were boosted by the Help
to Buy loan program, introduced by the U.K. government in March,
which offers buyers of new homes loans of 20 percent of the
value of a property worth as much as 600,000 pounds.  “Customer confidence is good and transaction levels are
picking up,” Pete Redfern, chief executive officer of Taylor
Wimpey, said by telephone. “There’s a little bit of price
movement out there but it’s sensible -- not house-price boom
territory.”  Bellway Plc (BWY)  gained 4.5 percent,  Crest Nicholson Plc (CRST) 
advanced 2.9 percent and  Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV) , the third-biggest U.K. homebuilder by market value, rose 5 percent.  Margin Focus  Homebuilders moved their focus away from high-volume
development toward single-family homes that deliver wider
margins after facing hundreds of millions of pounds of
writedowns and falling sales after the 2007 housing collapse.  The operating profit margin at Taylor Wimpey, the U.K.’s
second-biggest homebuilder by market value, widened to more than
13 percent in the first six months of the year from 11.2 percent
a year earlier, the company said today. Persimmon, the largest
by value, said July 2 that its operating margin widened to about
15 percent during the half from 12.1 percent.  While the Help to Buy initiative has helped lift mortgage
approvals, it has drawn criticism from the  International
Monetary Fund  for its potential to stoke home price inflation.
Price gains have already been fueled by record low mortgage
rates, which have been driven down further by the Funding for
Lending program, which gives lenders access to cheap capital if
they use it to grant home loans.  Unless the U.K.’s efforts to boost housing increased
supply, the measures would ultimately cause price increases -- a
“result that would work against the aim of boosting access to
housing,” the IMF said in May.  The Bloomberg EMEA Home Builders Index of nine stocks
gained 3.2 percent to 228.4, the highest since May 20. The index
has risen 35 percent this year, led by Persimmon. The benchmark
FTSE 100 Index has increased 8.9 percent during that time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  