-- U.K. Stocks Climb as Investors Await BOE Decision
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-07-04T08:21:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/u-k-stocks-climb-as-investors-await-boe-decision.html
U.K. stocks  advanced, rebounding from
yesterday’s biggest selloff in more than a week, before
monetary-policy announcements from the Bank of England and the
 European Central Bank .  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  both
snapped two days of losses, climbing more than 1 percent.
 EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  added 1.7 percent after reporting an increase in
passenger numbers for June.  Taylor Wimpey Plc (TW/)  rose 3.2 percent
after the housebuilder increased its first-half profit margin.  The FTSE 100 Index gained 51.71 points, or 0.8 percent, to
6,281.58 at 9:17 a.m. in London, after falling 1.2 percent
yesterday. The FTSE All-Share Index increased 0.8 percent today,
while Ireland’s ISEQ Index added 0.4 percent.  We are seeing “tentative gains for European markets with
investors gearing up for policy meetings by the Bank of England
and the European Central Bank,” said Ishaq Siddiqi, market
strategist at ETX Capital in London. “With no U.S. data
scheduled today, attention is squarely on the policy
meetings.”  Policy makers at the Bank of England are expected keep the
central bank’s bond-purchase target at 375 billion pounds ($572
billion) and its key rate at 0.5 percent, according surveys of
economists. BOE will announce its decision at noon in London.  The ECB will also leave its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at a record low of 0.5 percent today, according to 61
of 62 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey of economists. The central
bank will announce the decision at 1:45 p.m. in Frankfurt and
President  Mario Draghi  will address the press 45 minutes later.  Stocks tumbled around the world yesterday as the Portuguese
government lost the leader of its junior coalition partner,
pushing the nation’s bond yields to their highest level this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  