-- Unilever Fails to Gain 75% Control of Hindustan Unilever
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e   a n d   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2013-07-05T07:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/unilever-fails-to-gain-75-control-of-hindustan-unilever.html
Unilever (UNA)  fell short on its public
offer to raise its majority holding in  Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) 
to 75 percent, ending up with about a two-thirds stake after
some shareholders of the Mumbai-based company opted not to sell.  Unilever’s bid of 600 rupees a share -- close to the July 4
closing price of 601.40 rupees -- gave it 67 percent, up from 52
percent before the offer, the company said in a statement late
yesterday. The offer price valued the transaction at about 2.45
billion euros ($3.2 billion).  The result reduces the profit Unilever can squeeze out of
the Indian unit and could force the London- and Rotterdam-based
company to pay more for a bigger stake later. Analysts said it
wouldn’t change their outlook on the maker of Dove soaps and
Lipton tea. Some Hindustan Unilever investors chose to keep
their money in an entity that serves as a proxy for consumer
demand in  Asia ’s third-largest economy.  “For Unilever this a clear win -- I think they got more
than what the market expected,” said Vivek Veda, a consumer
analyst at Espirito Santo Securities in Mumbai. “This would
also help bring in dollars into the country and ease pressure on
the rupee, at least for the time being.”  India’s rupee headed for a ninth weekly drop, the longest
losing streak in a year, after foreign funds continued to pull
money from the nation’s debt.  Unilever has no plans for a future offer for Hindustan
Unilever, said company spokeswoman Lucila Zambrano. In any case,
it would be unable to start any offer until the end of Hindustan
Unilever’s fiscal year, she said.  Share Tender  Hindustan Unilever  shares  rose as much as 5.1 percent to a
record 632 rupees, before trading at 607.3 rupees at 12:40 p.m.
in Mumbai. The S&P BSE Sensex index rose 0.8 percent. Unilever
fell 0.1 percent to 31.07 euros at 9:10 a.m. in Amsterdam.  Investors were also swayed by the tax burden of tendering
their shares, according to Anubhav Malhotra, an analyst at
Liberum Capital Inc. in  New York . Tendering shares in the open
offer would trigger a  tax  of about 21 percent on the  capital
gains  adjusted with a government-provided index for inflation,
said Ketan Dalal, joint tax leader for consultant
PricewaterhouseCoopers. Shareholders selling the stock in the
open market pay a 0.1 percent tax on the entire transaction,
which may likely work out to less.  Potential Valuation  “I wouldn’t necessarily offer all the shares that we
have,” Adrian Lim, a portfolio manager at Aberdeen Asset
Management Asia Ltd., said in July 2 Bloomberg TV interview.
Aberdeen is the third-biggest  shareholder  in Hindustan Unilever,
with a 4.4 percent stake as of May 31.  Unilever has sought greater control of India’s largest
consumer-goods maker as its growth in  Europe  ebbs. Developing
markets will account for more than 90 percent of its annual
sales growth this decade. The company is scheduled to report
first-half results July 25.  Unilever’s plan to boost its stake came after its January
decision to increase the royalty the Indian unit pays to 3.15
percent of revenue, up from 1.4 percent, over five years.  Hindustan Unilever’s shares plunged the most in two years
after the royalty announcement. Had the royalty not been
boosted, Unilever would have had to offer about 700 rupees a
share, estimated Nitin Mathur, an analyst at Espirito Santo.  Third-Largest Market  The offer valued Hindustan Unilever at 37 times the
subsidiary’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization. The median multiple for similar deals was 10.8
times Ebitda, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Unilever’s Indian business started more than a century ago
when British soap maker Lever & Co. introduced the Sunlight
brand.  India  is now Unilever’s third-largest market, accounting
for about 8 percent of sales, according to Bernstein Research.
On average, its products command a 40 percent market share in
India, higher than in any other country where it operates,
Liberum estimates.  “The potential of India’s consumerville is rightly
regarded as huge, and Hindustan Unilever is the de facto play in
the space,” said Jon Cox, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets
SA in Zurich. “Foreign investors would rather stay invested.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net ;
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  