-- Turkey And Ukraine Among Most at Risk of Liquidity Squeeze: S&P
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-07-04T17:22:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/turkey-and-ukraine-among-most-at-risk-of-liquidity-squeeze-s-p.html
Ukraine and Turkey are among the most
vulnerable to an external funding shortfall in  emerging markets 
as investors cut their holdings off the region’s bonds,
according to  Standard & Poor’s. (XME)   The two countries are in the top eight of 40 developing
nations on all three measures adopted by S&P to assess  liquidity
risk . These include factors related to the need for external
financing, size of short-term foreign debt and current-account
deficit, one of the broadest measures of a country’s economic
health.  “The larger an economy’s dependence on external funding is
compared to its own stock of and capacity to generate foreign
reserves, the more vulnerable it is to a change in the
extraordinarily loose monetary conditions currently prevailing
worldwide,” S&P’s analysts Moritz Kraemer in Frankfurt and
 Frank Gill  from London said in an e-mailed report today.  Investors withdrew a record $5.7 billion from emerging-market debt funds in the week through June 26 after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said he would cut back stimulus as
the U.S. labor market improves, EPFR Global data compiled by
Morgan Stanley show.  Turkey, formerly among the top destinations for developing
nation funds, has seen more than $1.4 billion in outflows from
its stocks and bonds in June, after protests broke out against
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s government at the end of
May. Turkey’s benchmark stock index dropped 11 percent in June,
the steepest monthly retreat in almost two years, and the lira
weakened to record low on June 24. Investors in Turkey’s dollar
bond due in 2023 lost 9.6 percent last month.  Foreign Borrowing  Ukraine’s 2023 bond lost 9.7 percent since it was sold in
April this year. The former Soviet republic, which is still
seeking to renew a lending program with the  International
Monetary Fund , may sell foreign debt for a third time this year
should yields decline, Serhiy Arbuzov, first deputy prime
minister, said on July 1.  Ukraine has raised $2.3 billion by tapping international
markets this year as monetary easing in developed nations drove
demand for higher-yielding assets in emerging economies.  “The current market volatility is a reminder that the
benign financing conditions currently enjoyed by most emerging
market debtors may not last indefinitely,” S&P said in the
report.  Countries in Asia and  Latin America  are relatively less
vulnerable to external liquidity risk, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  