-- Obama Meets on Egypt as Return to Elected Rule Urged
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2013-07-04T21:40:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/mursi-s-ouster-leaves-u-s-dilemma-on-post-coup-aid.html
President  Barack Obama  met with
members of his National Security Council today at the White
House to discuss the ouster of President Mohamed Mursi in Egypt,
NSC spokeswoman Bernadette Meehan said.  Administration officials, including Secretary of State  John
Kerry  and Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, also placed calls to
their counterparts in Egypt to stress the “importance of a
quick and responsible return of full authority to a
democratically elected civilian government as soon as
possible,” Meehan said by e-mail.  Officials also told Egyptian leaders they needed to have a
“transparent political process that is inclusive of all parties
and groups” and that Mursi and his supporters shouldn’t be
arbitrarily arrested, according to Meehan.  The calls came as U.S. officials weigh how to respond to
the Egyptian military’s overhaul of their elected government,
while avoiding the word “coup” that could cost  Egypt  more than
$1.5 billion in military and humanitarian U.S. aid.  Obama said yesterday he has “directed the relevant
departments and agencies to review the impact under U.S. law for
our assistance to the government of Egypt.” Earlier in the day,
administration officials refrained from describing the tumult
that was under way in Cairo as a coup and underscored long-standing U.S. ties to the Egyptian military.  Egypt’s Military  Egypt’s military has $1.3 billion a year in U.S. aid riding
on the Obama administration and lawmakers not calling the ouster
of President Mohamed Mursi a coup.  Few in Washington were eager to use that label in light of
a U.S. law that blocks directly financing “any assistance to
the government of any country whose duly elected head of
government is deposed by a military coup d’etat or decree,” or
a coup “in which the military plays a decisive role.”  By the letter of the law, yesterday’s ouster of the
democratically elected Mursi and suspension of the constitution
could cost Egypt the military aid that it receives, as well as
about $256 million a year in economic assistance. Obama
requested a total of $1.55 billion in U.S. aid to Egypt in his
fiscal 2014 budget.  Rather than condemning the day’s events as a coup, members
of Congress underscored yesterday their distaste for Mursi in
light of his roots in the Muslim Brotherhood and his refusal to
share power once he was elected.  Congressional Views  Mursi “was an obstacle to the constitutional democracy
most Egyptians wanted,” House Foreign Affairs Committee
Chairman Ed Royce, a California Republican, said in a statement.
“I am hopeful that his departure will reopen the path to a
better future for Egypt.”  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican,
said in a statement that “the Egyptian military has long been a
key partner of the  United States  and a stabilizing force in the
region, and is perhaps the only trusted national institution in
Egypt today.”  An exception was Senator  Patrick Leahy , chairman of the
Senate Appropriations subcommittee that oversees the State
Department and foreign operations.  While Leahy called Mursi’s time in office a “great
disappointment,” he said, “Our law is clear: U.S. aid is cut
off when a democratically elected government is deposed by
military coup or decree.”  Leahy’s Focus  Leahy, a Vermont Democrat, focused on the future, pledging
to “review future aid to the Egyptian government as we wait for
a clearer picture.” Neither the House nor the Senate has acted
on foreign aid funding for the next fiscal year, which begins
Oct. 1.  Less than two hours before the Egyptian military announced
Mursi’s ouster, State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki declined
to say whether overthrowing him would amount to a coup.  “With respect to the ongoing situation in Egypt, it’s
premature to suggest that we have taken steps, we’re thinking
about taking steps,” Psaki told reporters. “I’m not going to
get ahead of, of course, events on the ground. But clearly,
assessments would be made based on the facts on the ground and
choices made by all parties, if needed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in  Washington  at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  