-- Vietnam Should Study Temasek Model to Boost State Firms
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-04T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/vietnam-should-study-temasek-model-to-boost-state-firms.html
Vietnam  should consider following the
model of  Singapore ’s Temasek Holdings Pte and  Malaysia ’s
Khazanah Nasional Bhd. as it seeks ways to boost productivity at
state-owned enterprises, McKinsey & Co.’s country head said.  “It could be very interesting to look at successful
stories that Malaysia and Singapore had,” Marco Breu,
McKinsey’s chief executive officer in Vietnam, said in an
interview. “They created this arms-length view between the
government and the SOEs, this entity which then started managing
them professionally with only business incentives in mind.”  Singapore created Temasek in 1974 to nurture the
development of state corporations including the national phone
company and airline. Khazanah was set up in 1993 with a similar
mandate. Temasek managed S$215 billion ($169 billion) in
investments as of March 31, while Khazanah’s net asset value
reached 86.9 billion ringgit ($27 billion) at the end of 2012.  Vietnam is trying to raise competitiveness and efficiency
at state companies as economic growth slows after the ruling
Communist Party said in 2011 that unprofitable government-controlled firms had become a burden. Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung approved a master plan in February to spur its companies to
focus on core businesses and accelerate public share sales.  The Singapore and Malaysia models allowed the state
investment firms to introduce common corporate governance
practices and impose higher management standards. They have
successively sold shares in former state companies and then
reinvested the proceeds outside their home countries.  Role Models  Temasek’s biggest holdings now include shares in  Singapore
Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) ,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest phone company;
DBS Group Holdings Ltd., the region’s biggest bank; U.K. lender
Standard Chartered Plc; and  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd. , the nation’s largest bank.  Khazanah  owns stakes in some of Malaysia’s biggest listed
companies, including electricity producer Tenaga Nasional Bhd.,
mobile-phone company Axiata Group Bhd., lender CIMB Group
Holdings Bhd. and hospital operator IHH Healthcare Bhd. The
investment firm sold Proton Holdings Bhd., the national carmaker
and owner of luxury sports-car maker Lotus, last year.  Breu also mentioned  Kazakhstan ’s  Samruk-Kazyna , the
sovereign wealth fund that controls assets accounting for about
half of the country’s economic output, as a model.  Hidden Inefficiencies  Vietnam’s sovereign credit rating was cut one step to B1 in
December 2010 by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited concerns
including “debt distress at Vietnam Shipbuilding Industry
Group,” or Vinashin.  Standard & Poor’s  followed the same month,
placing Vietnam three levels below investment grade.  The country targets 5.5 percent  economic growth  this year,
which would be its first period of three straight years of
growth below 6 percent since 1988, according to International
Monetary Fund data. The government is trying to fix a banking
sector weighed down by bad debt, which the central bank said was
7.8 percent of outstanding loans at the end of 2012.  Governments have difficulty giving state-owned companies
more independence because they often serve as vehicles for state
policies, Breu said.  “In SOEs, you will find a lot of hidden inefficiencies
because they might not have been managed according to business
principles,” Breu said in the July 2 interview. “Many times
they function as a way to keep  unemployment  down.”  Without mechanisms to retrain workers, “it is very hard to
all of a sudden say cut it 30, 40 percent,” he said. Breu
declined to say whether McKinsey is advising Vietnam’s
government, saying the company has a policy not to comment on
its clients.  Small Steps  Vietnam has taken small steps to replicate entities like
Temasek with its State Capital Investment Corp., which was
formed in 2006 to manage government shareholdings and operates
under the Ministry of Finance, said Alan Pham, chief economist
at VinaCapital Group. SCIC’s role should be expanded, he said.  A Temasek-like organization would have difficulty
functioning within the fragmented power structure in Vietnam,
said Jonathan Pincus, an economist with the Harvard Kennedy
School’s Vietnam Program in  Ho Chi Minh City .  “The problem is every level of government controls
entities that are commercial in nature.” he said in a phone
interview. “You have SCIC and the Ministry of Finance trying to
be Temasek, but nobody wants to give them any assets.”  Vinashin, the state-run firm that had planned to build and
export $1 billion of ships in 2009, almost collapsed in 2010
because it over-diversified and failed to manage its cash flow
and debt properly, according to the Ministry of Transport.  Prime Minister Dung faced a call for a confidence vote in
the National Assembly in late 2010 for his handling of Vinashin.
Dung, who apologized for the shortcomings in a televised
broadcast in October 2012, eventually faced the vote last month
and passed with 67 percent support from lawmakers.  Market Volatility  A stock market slump has slowed down Vietnam’s equitization
process, Dominic Scriven, the CEO of Ho Chi Minh City-based fund
manager Dragon Capital, said on behalf of the Capital Market
Working Group at a conference last month.  The Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange’s benchmark  VN Index (VNINDEX) 
has lost 7.7 percent from this year’s June 7 high. The gauge has
rallied 18 percent this year, at least 7 percentage points more
than any other Southeast Asian benchmark tracked by Bloomberg.  Vietnam Airlines Co., the national carrier, has selected
banks to manage an initial public offering, CEO Pham Ngoc Minh
said April 9. He didn’t give a time frame for the sale.  One in five publicly traded companies may post losses this
year, State Securities Commission Chairman Vu Bang said last
month. Investors are awaiting the results of the government’s
plans to resolve non-performing loans and restructure banks and
state-owned enterprises, he said.  Productivity Improvements  Productivity in manufacturing and services must improve by
50 percent for Vietnam’s economic growth to return to more than
6 percent, Breu said, citing a McKinsey report published last
year. Vietnam can’t rely on the two other drivers of economic
expansion -- the labor force and urbanization -- for growth, he
said.  South Korea  achieved such productivity improvements during
the 1970s, as did  China  more recently, he said.  “Unless you fundamentally change SOEs, reform these
things, you will end up more at 4.5 percent to 5 percent
growth,” Breu said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net ;
John Boudreau in Hanoi at 
 jboudreau3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  