-- Vodacom to Focus on Smaller Companies as Voice Sales Decline
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-07-04T12:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/vodacom-to-focus-on-smaller-businesses-amid-falling-voice-sales.html
Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) , South Africa’s
largest wireless company, will increase its focus on small-to-medium-sized business customers to offset declining revenue from
its domestic voice division.  Vodacom Business will contribute as much as 25 percent of
the company’s South African service revenue by 2018, compared
with 16 percent, or 8 billion rand ($795 million), for the year
through March, the Johannesburg-based company said in a
statement today.  Total revenue  rose 4.5 percent to 70 billion
rand last year while service revenue in South Africa decreased
0.4 percent to 48.2 billion rand.  “We historically focused on corporate clients and didn’t
have the scale or products to tackle the huge and rapidly
growing small-to-medium enterprise segment,” Vuyani Jarana,
chief officer of Vodacom Business, said in the statement. The
company will now “piggy-back” off its consumer business
infrastructure to expand services for smaller companies.  Vodacom, which is 65 percent-owned by  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ,
is becoming increasingly important for its Newbury, England-based parent as Vodafone struggles to halt a slide in its
European business. Vodacom is expanding its data and business
services as sales from domestic voice revenue and mobile
messaging retreated.  The wireless operator has invested more than 2 billion rand
in Vodacom Business since 2008 amid increasing competition in
the business services sector.  Shares Advance  Vodacom shares rose 1 percent to 106 rand at 2:10 p.m. in
Johannesburg trading. Vodafone climbed 2.2 percent to 191.40
pence in  London .  Telkom Group Ltd., Africa’s biggest fixed-line operator,
last month pledged to rebuild its corporate unit after the
company reported the largest non-mining loss in South  Africa 
company history.  “We want to put Telkom Business on steroids,” Telkom
Chief Executive Officer Sipho Maseko said in a June 14
interview. “That means we want to grow faster than the
market.”  -- Editors: John Bowker, Robert Valpuesta  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  