-- Australia Seeks to Tame Lions in Winner-Takes-All Rugby Finale
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-07-05T14:22:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/wallabies-face-lions-in-winner-takes-all-finale-to-rugby-series.html
Australia ’s rugby series against the
British and Irish Lions, billed as 12 years in the making, boils
down to 80 minutes today when the teams meet in the decider.  The Wallabies tied the three-match contest 1-1 with a one-point victory after the Lions won the opener 23-21. Those
matches featured late penalty misses that would have reversed
the results, and players and coaches from both sides are
anticipating another nail-biter at Sydney’s ANZ Stadium.  “I expect it to be a really tough contest,” Wallabies
vice-captain Will Genia told reporters yesterday. “Whether the
scoreboard reflects that or not, we’ll just have to wait and
see. There’s not been many points scored but there’s been a lot
of intent.”  The Lions, who tour every four years with their destination
rotating between Australia,  New Zealand  and  South Africa , left
Sydney as losers in 2001 after the Wallabies won the decider to
complete a 2-1 comeback victory. Their last series win was 16
years ago in South Africa.  After losing in Australia, the Lions were swept 3-0 by the
All Blacks and were defeated 2-1 by South Africa in 2009. A
fourth straight series loss would be unprecedented since the
combined team first started playing Tests in 1891.  “This is grand final rugby, last throw of the dice with
everything to play for,” Lions assistant coach Graham Rowntree
said yesterday. “We have to go out and give it everything.
These players are desperate and there is definitely one huge
performance left in the tank.”  Australia Favored  The squad of elite British and Irish players arrived in
Australia on June 3 as the bookmakers’ favorites to beat the
third-ranked Wallabies and those chances improved when they won
last month’s series opener in Brisbane. Oddsmakers now rate the
home team as the most likely victor.  Wallabies coach  Robbie Deans  said he expects his team’s
performance level to lift, citing a gradual improvement in
combinations and on-field understanding after Australia scored
the only try in last week’s 16-15 win in  Melbourne .  “This will be our best performance, without a doubt,”
Deans said two days ago. “It’s a new game, a new circumstance,
and how the teams respond to the winner-takes-all context will
be a big part of it.”  Deans and Lions head coach Warren Gatland, his fellow New
Zealander, both sprang selection surprises this week.  Australia recalled back-row forward George Smith, who
celebrated his 21st birthday by helping the Wallabies beat the
Lions in the third Test in 2001, after a near four-year absence
from the national team.  ‘Freak’  Now 32 and back playing in Australia on a loan spell from
his Japanese club, Smith was chosen ahead of Michael Hooper to
start at openside flanker after recovering from a knee injury
that had threatened to rule him out of the entire series.  “George is a freak,” Genia added. “He’s running around
like he’s 21. He offers us so much with his experience and his
ability at the breakdown.”  Smith’s inclusion gives the Wallabies 110 Tests’ worth of
nous in the contest for the ball after a tackle, an area both
teams have identified as being crucial to the outcome. By lining
up against the Lions for the fourth time in a Test, Smith will
tie a record held by seven other Australians. He’s the fourth
Wallaby to do so across two separate tours and the first since
the sport turned professional in 1995.  While Smith’s inclusion was the only switch in the
Wallabies’ starting lineup, Gatland made six changes. The
omission of  Brian O’Driscoll , the Lions’ most-experienced
player, from the entire 23-man squad for the must-win match came
as the biggest surprise.  ‘Die for the Cause’  Irish center O’Driscoll, the only survivor from the Lions’
2001 tour, had been seen as the most likely replacement for
injured captain Sam Warburton. Welsh lock Alun Wyn Jones will
lead the combined team for the first time in front of a sold-out
crowd of about 84,000 in Sydney. The first two games were played
in front of record attendances at their respective stadiums.  “Everyone knows that Al will die for the cause,” Lions
hooker Richard Hibbard said yesterday. “He is going to be the
first man to want to make that tackle, make that first carry.
Everyone is behind him and supporting him.”  O’Driscoll was dropped for the first time in his 15-year
international rugby career as fit-again  Jamie Roberts  was paired
with fellow Welshman  Jonathan Davies  in the centers. England’s
Manu Tuilagi provides the midfield backup on the bench.  Irish winger  Tommy Bowe , who played all three Tests in
South Africa four years ago, said the Lions had been “a little
bit passive” in Melbourne and allowed Australia to gain
momentum. They won’t make the same mistake in the decider.  “We realize that it’s been 16 years since we last won a
Lions series,” Bowe said yesterday. “We’ll leave everything
out on the pitch.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  