-- Yankees Top Twins 9-5 to Complete Series Sweep; Mets Lose in 15
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-07-05T04:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/wells-yankees-beat-minnesota-9-5-to-complete-series-sweep.html
Vernon Wells  drove in three runs as
the  New York Yankees  got 13 hits in a 9-5 victory against the
 Minnesota Twins  to complete a four-game sweep at Target Field in
 Minneapolis .  The  Arizona  Diamondbacks needed 15 innings to defeat the
 New York  Mets 5-4 yesterday in a game that lasted five hours, 46
minutes at Citi Field in New York. It was the second extra-inning game of the series and the Mets’ 10th of the season,
matching the total they had all of last season.  The Yankees scored three runs in the first inning, two in
the third and four in the sixth inning to open a 9-1 lead.
 Ichiro Suzuki  was 3-5 with two runs and two runs batted-in,
while designated hitter Travis Hafner also contributed three
hits and two runs scored.  Yankees starter David Phelps allowed eight hits and four
runs to move to 6-5 on the Major League Baseball season. Twins
designated hitter Justin Morneau had two home runs in the loss.  The Yankees (46-39) are in third place in the  American
League East , six games behind the first-place Boston Red Sox
(53-34).  At the Mets’ ballpark, Cliff Pennington hit a run-scoring
single in the top of the 15th to give Chaz Roe his first victory
after he allowed one run on one hit, walked two and struck out
one in the 14th inning. Brad Ziegler, the last of the
Diamondback’s nine pitchers, got his first save after walking
two in the 15th.  “There’s no question this team will fight to the end of
the game,” Ziegler said. “It’s just two really competitive
teams going out and putting on a show on a holiday.”  Dillon Gee hit a run-scoring single in the fifth inning to
give the Mets a 2-2 tie. Both teams were scoreless until the
13th when Martin Prado scored on a bases-loaded walk to give the
Diamondbacks a 3-2 lead which was wiped out by Anthony Recker’s
homer in the bottom of the 13th.  Pennington’s Single  Prado hit a run-scoring single in the 14th before Kirk Nieuwenhuis tied the game again on a home run. Gerardo Parra
scored on Pennington’s single for the win.  “It felt like a marathon tennis match, to be honest with
you,” Nieuwenhuis said. “It’s tough not to come up on top
there at the end, but it’s a 162-game season and we’ve got to
bring it tomorrow.”  Scott Rice (3-5), the Mets’ eighth pitcher, took the loss
after giving up one run on three hits and striking out one in
the 15th.  Elsewhere on the Independence Day holiday, it was the
Washington Nationals 8, the Milwaukee Brewers 5; the
Philadelphia Phillies 6, Pittsburgh Pirates 4; the  Boston Red
Sox  8, San Diego Padres 2; the Chicago White Sox 3, Baltimore
Orioles 2; the Kansas City Royals 10, Cleveland Indians 7; and
the Tampa Bay Rays 7, Houston Astros 5.  In other games, it was the Oakland Athletics 1, Chicago
Cubs 0; the Detroit Tigers 11, Toronto Blue Jays 1; the Miami
Marlins 4, Atlanta Braves 3; the Texas Rangers 5, Seattle
Mariners 4; the Colorado Rockies 9, Los Angeles Dodgers 5; and
the Los Angeles Angels 6, St. Louis Cardinals 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  