-- Western Sydney Transforms From Heartland to Heartburn for Labor
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-07-05T06:56:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/western-sydney-transforms-from-heartland-to-heartburn-for-labor.html
Vicki Dowler comes from a family
that’s backed Labor for decades as the party of the working
class in Western Sydney. Her plans to defect at the next
election show the work remaining for Labor to revive its
prospects after ditching former Prime Minister Julia Gillard.  “My father voted Labor all his life and he’d turn in his
grave if he thought I was going to vote against them,” Dowler,
58, a shift-worker at an army-base kitchen, said as she ate
lunch in a shopping center in the suburb of Casula. “He’d be
devastated to see what’s happened to the party. Everyone around
here has lost so much faith in them.”  Dowler’s change of heart underscores the challenge for
reinstalled Labor leader Kevin Rudd in the party’s heartland, a
mass of suburbs where about 10 percent of Australians live and
which produced prime ministers Gough Whitlam and Paul Keating.
While it has held five of the area’s 10 federal districts for at
least 29 years, polls before the June 26 ouster of unpopular
Gillard showed Labor’s eight seats faced a swing to the
opposition.  Rudd has months to recalibrate policy as he seeks to extend
Labor’s six-year stint in power at an election due by November
30. In Western Sydney, the party has to contend with a social
and economic evolution away from the Catholic, labor-union
families and working-class immigrants that historically
supported it.  ‘Temporary Bounce’  “Labor has never felt the need to properly campaign in
Western Sydney because it was so entrenched, and now it finds
just about every traditionally safe seat looks marginal,” said
David Burchell, a professor of humanities at the University of
Western Sydney. “You have to be deeply skeptical whether Rudd’s
return will provide anything more than a temporary bounce.”  The region of 2 million people has been affected by a
manufacturing demise that’s cut union rolls, with employers such
as saucemaker Rosella and building materials maker  CSR Ltd. (CSR) 
closing factories after the local dollar’s surge left them
uncompetitive. At the same time, it has seen an influx of
wealthier voters from Eastern Sydney fleeing a jump in property
prices near the coast and business district. Rising education
levels mean increasing numbers of voters no longer identify
themselves as working class.  Resentment among legal immigrant families against illegal
entrants to the nation from boats run by smugglers has left the
area ripe for opposition leader Tony Abbott’s tougher stance
against asylum seekers. With a surge in the share of non-Australian born residents in Western Sydney -- in the community
of Cabramatta, 71 percent of the  population  was born overseas --
the issue resounds in the region.  Voters Ignored  “They feel like Labor has taken them for granted and left
them behind,” Andrew Hughes, who conducts political-marketing
research at the Australian National University in Canberra, said
of Western Sydney voters. “Abbott is now speaking the words
they want to hear, about protecting their jobs, keeping out boat
people. Labor realizes it’s made a mistake, its policies haven’t
appealed, but it’s hard to turn that around.”  Rudd earned a political victory after he secured agreement
from Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono at a meeting
today to host a summit on the people-smuggling issue with
representatives from some of the asylum seekers’ home countries.  At stake in the election is the management of the 12th-largest economy, with Rudd pledging to stick with Gillard’s
carbon-pricing policy that Abbott, 55, has vowed to dismantle.
The coalition has also pledged to abolish Labor’s tax on mining
company profits, slash spending on the government’s planned A$44
billion ($40 billion)  national broadband network  and cut the
public service.  Recession Risk  Rudd, 55, already has begun recalibrating Labor’s economic
message since seizing back the job Gillard, 51, took from him in
2010 -- repeatedly flagging the risk of a recession posed by a
slowdown in  China , Australia’s top export destination. Gillard
and ex-Treasurer Wayne Swan’s trumpeting of the nation’s
outperformance relative to other advanced countries proved a
loser among voters witnessing the downfall of the nation’s car-making industry.  “He’s got to go out there and say ‘look, I’m back, we’re
going to change things,’” said Andy Nikola, 45, owner of a
barber shop in Ingleburn and a longtime Labor voter. “He’s got
a good chance providing he does the right thing.”  Reworking Pitch  Rudd has said he plans to take time to consider Labor’s
policies before the election. Gillard, who had scheduled a Sept.
14 date for the ballot, oversaw unprecedented taxes on mining
and carbon emissions during her leadership of a minority
government after the 2010 vote, which was the closest in seven
decades.  Labor’s deficit to the Liberal-National coalition has
shrunk to two percentage points from 14 points on a two-party
preferred measure since Rudd took charge, according to a June
28-30 Newspoll survey of 1,149 people with a margin of error of
plus or minus 3 percentage points. Even so, Labor hasn’t led
Abbott’s opposition in the polls for more than two years.  Four decades ago, 76 percent of residents in Liverpool --
established in  1810  as one of the country’s first settlements --
were born in Australia. That has dropped to 32 percent, with 9.5
percent of residents from  Iraq  and 5.9 percent from  India .  Natural Fit  Labor was a natural fit for new European arrivals after
World War II through to refugees from Indochina in the
1970s-1980s, said Burchell, who has taught at the University of
Western Sydney for two decades. “But in the last few decades
that’s changed because a lot of migrants didn’t see themselves
as working class when they left their countries. They are
totally aspirational. Labor has a real problem convincing those
people they should be voting for them.”  About 31 percent of  Western Sydney  residents now have a
bachelor degree or higher, compared with fewer than 1 percent in
the centers of Blacktown and Penrith in 1971.  Sorn Tang, who runs a hardware shop in Cabramatta that she
inherited from her father, a refugee from Cambodia, will back
Rudd in the election although she no longer views herself as
wedded to Labor. “My daughter feels the same,” said Tang, 43.
“The new generation is more educated and don’t want to be seen
as working class.” Tang aims to move to  Manly , a Sydney
beachside suburb with a median weekly household income of
A$2,084, more than twice that of Cabramatta. “It’s much nicer
there than here.”  Union Roots  As new Australians move  in , Labor is seeing the erosion of
an Irish-Catholic culture steeped in trade unionism that formed
the backbone of the party, which traces its roots back to the
1890s. In the 2011 census, 15 percent of Parramatta residents
identified themselves as Catholic, down from 31 percent four
decades before.  Trade unions are in decline, with the proportion of men who
were members in their main job at 18 percent nationally in 2011,
from 43 percent in 1992. Some big industries that were sources
of  union members  “are gone,” said Tim Ayres, New South Wales
secretary of the Australian Manufacturing Workers Union.  Unions and Labor “have got to make sure we have a real
presence in the community and a place for people to interact,”
Ayres said. “That’s a key thing that’s deteriorated in Western
Sydney.”  While  Australia ’s  jobless  level of 5.5 percent is lower
than the 7.6 percent level for the U.S. in May, or 7.8 percent
in the U.K. in April, in some areas of Bankstown it’s as high as
14 percent.  Gentrifying Trend  Meantime, the region is seeing another type of immigrant.
Former residents of central Sydney are moving west in search of
cheaper housing, boosting the ranks of middle-class commuters
who face unreliable public transport and clogged roads.  “When I got here in 1971 this used to be a little
village,” said Larry Mackison, 57, waiting for a morning train
at Ingleburn. Having stopped his car commute due to heavy
traffic, he spends 90 minutes each way on a three-train trip to
Rydalmere, about 28 kilometers (17 miles) away, for work as a
manufacturing engineer. “There’s been no proper planning and
the workers are suffering,” said Mackison, a former Labor
stalwart who called himself a swing voter.  The move west is pushing up  property costs . Housing prices
in Western Sydney have risen faster in the past 20 years than
Sydney’s coast, according to Matthew Hardman, co-head of
research at Rismark International, a fund manager and advisory
firm.  Property Values  Cumulative returns since 1993 have soared 278 percent in
the area, with the median home price now A$475,000, compared
with $515,000 in the  New York  City borough of  Brooklyn .  House and land packages on the outer fringes can cost
A$600,000, said Bernard Salt, a demographer with  KPMG , a global
provider of tax and audit services. “That requires two incomes
to pay off for decades and the new owners are still 40
kilometers and up to two hours away from the central business
district,” Salt said.  “Western Sydney is Australia’s forgotten city,” neglected
despite a swelling in resident rolls, he said. The area’s
population is forecast by the Bureau of Transport Statistics to
jump 56 percent in the 25 years to 2036, to more than 3 million.  Laurie Ferguson is battling for re-election after winning
the lower house seat of Werriwa by a margin of 6.8 percent in
2010. Up against him is Kent Johns, a one-time Labor politician
who left the party in 2002. Driving through the streets of his
electorate south-west of Sydney’s central business district, he
says: “I’ve been in parliament for 29 years and I can’t say
I’ve had a hard contest before.”  ‘Early Days’  The odds of keeping the seat held by Labor since 1934 have
improved since Rudd’s return, Ferguson says. “But it’s early
days.”  On a campaign stop, Ferguson spoke to 22 members of the
Blue Hills retirement village. Residents peppered him with
queries on how Labor will stop the “boat people,’’ refugees
from war-torn nations who pay traffickers to ferry them from
 Indonesia  in rickety boats that sometimes sink.  At the meeting with Ferguson was John McGrath, 68, a former
maintenance manager who said Labor, a party he had been “born
into,” had failed to adapt.  “The party is barking up the wrong tree because none of
the younger people want to call themselves working class,”
McGrath said. While he still plans to vote for the party, a
Labor loss “probably won’t do them any harm in the long term
because the party needs to have a new broom,” he said.  Currency Impact  While Labor steered the nation through the aftermath of the
U.S. subprime crisis without a recession, there are signs of
slower growth. A resources boom is fading while manufacturers
have struggled as the local currency held above $1 from mid-June
last year to May 10, the longest stretch above parity since its
1983 flotation. The Aussie was at 91.30 U.S. cents late
yesterday in Sydney.  Almost 60 percent of businesses in Western Sydney are self-employed companies, according to New South Wales state
government figures.  Manufacturing  was responsible for about 16
percent, or A$13.4 billion, of the area’s total value-added
industry in the year to June 30, 2011. In 1971, 36 percent of
Blacktown workers and 34 percent in Parramatta were employed in
manufacturing, according to Census data.  Labor’s decades-long political hold on the area has left a
legacy of corruption concern. At the state level, Labor in New
South Wales was shunted from office two years ago after 16 years
in power, winning just  24 percent  of the vote.  The party has made “many mistakes,” said Paul Hennessy,
50, manning the counter of the Penrith branch of charity shop St
Vincent de Paul. Even so, he will vote Labor. “No-one seems to
want to know about the good things the government has done.”  For Dowler, it is no longer an option. “The damage has
been done. Rudd was the one who did the damage with his policies
in the first place. I can’t see that I would vote for them
again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  