-- What Abe Can Learn From Japan Inc.’s Mavericks
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-07-04T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/what-abe-can-learn-from-japan-inc-s-mavericks.html
There’s no shortage of pundits eager
to tell Shinzo Abe how to shake up  Japan ’s economy. Instead of
looking to academics for advice, though, the prime minister
should get into the trenches with some of the nation’s more
unconventional corporate heads.  Abe talks, for example, about wanting to make Japanese
companies worldlier. For pointers, he should study what Tadashi Yanai has already accomplished at Fast Retailing Co., home of
the Uniqlo brand. Yanai has become Japan’s richest man -- and
the only Japanese on Time magazine’s latest 100 most-influential
list -- largely because of his success at expanding abroad.  At home, low-cost clothier Uniqlo smartly recognized that
deflation was a secular, not cyclical, phenomenon. But going
global, Yanai discovered, required two skills at which Japan
Inc. has traditionally failed to excel: taking risks and
speaking English. Yanai shook up the company’s ranks by
promoting on merit rather than seniority, and revamped its
marketing with edgy ad campaigns. Equally important have been
Uniqlo’s efforts to tap foreign talent and to hold staff
meetings in English, so that executives can perform better
overseas.  Abe has nodded toward some of these ideas, promising to
bolster English education. But then, so have the last 10 prime
ministers. Will Abe actually address what researcher C.H. Kwan
dubbed the “Economics of Engrish” back in 2002? Abe could
start by challenging Finance Minister Taro Aso, who has
suggested that corporate Japan’s poor language skills are
actually an asset. Japan escaped the worst of the 2008 financial
meltdown, Aso has claimed, because its bankers were mystified by
subprime loans: “Managers of Japanese banks hardly understood
English, that’s why they didn’t buy.”  Working Women  The prime minister also talks about drawing more women into
a fast-aging workforce. Neglecting half the population holds
back growth and undercuts Japan’s competitiveness. Yet some of
the same ideas that Abe is floating failed when tried by
education company  Benesse Holdings Inc . Its experiment with a
three-year maternity-leave program similar to Abe’s backfired:
Fewer women returned to work.  Instead, companies as varied as Asahi Group Holdings Ltd.,
KDDI Corp. and Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. have shown
that intensifying diversity and recruitment efforts can
substantially increase the number of female managers. The
rollout of  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s Note hatchback in February was a
milestone. By setting specific targets, the company has put more
women into executive jobs than any other Japanese automaker.
Three of them were responsible for the rollout of new models,
including the Note.  Some Japanese companies have even figured out ways around
issues that the prime minister is afraid to touch, such as
immigration. It’s easy for outside experts to argue that Japan,
with its graying population, needs an influx of new workers in
order to keep its social-welfare model afloat. Yet, politically,
the issue remains a third rail.  The world’s second-biggest construction-equipment maker,
 Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , has dealt with the labor shortage by rehiring 90
percent of its retirees; they were willing to accept a 40
percent cut in salaries in order to get their old jobs back. By
offering tax incentives to other companies to tap highly skilled
retirees, Abe could soothe bond markets, which see the risk of
Japan’s pension obligations becoming financially unsustainable.  The most effective reforms will inevitably be
controversial: They will all challenge powerful vested
interests. (That’s part of the reason Abe has been so vague
about details in the run-up to upper-house elections later this
month.) Even within stodgy Japan Inc., though, several mavericks
have shown that such challenges are possible.  Chasing Mavericks  Defying a powerful nuclear lobby, for instance, SoftBank
Corp. President Masayoshi Son is investing 20 billion yen ($199
million) in renewable-energy projects and promoting an Asia-wide
“supergrid” to link cities from  Mumbai  to Tokyo. His $21.6
billion bid for U.S. mobile giant Sprint Nextel Corp. would let
the creative destruction emphasized by economist Joseph Schumpeter play out with innovative pricing and network
investments.  Hiroshi Mikitani, the president of e-commerce giant Rakuten
Inc., has proven even more daring. In mid-2011, Mikitani caused
shockwaves when he left the main business lobby,  Nippon
Keidanren  and started a rival association. He’s fighting to make
corporate Japan nimbler and more entrepreneurial by creating
space where long-neglected small-to-midsize companies can
brainstorm and make policy recommendations that are getting
Abe’s attention (the prime minister met with the group in
April).  Mikitani loudly condemns the “Galapagos syndrome” that
plagues too many Japanese industries, whose products are highly
evolved but unable to survive beyond the water’s edge. Rather
than coddle such industries, Abe, too, would do well to force
them to adapt or die.  All these executives remain outliers within Japan Inc., of
course. Conservative forces still dominate, as illustrated by
this week’s Olympus Corp. ruling. For his role in a $1.7 billion
fraud that caused an 80 percent plunge in market value, former
Chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa received a suspended sentence.
Contrast that with the fate of scrappy Internet entrepreneur
Takafumi Horie of Livedoor Co. In 2007, Horie, then 35, was
locked up for accounting irregularities. Many believe Horie’s
real crime was speaking out against Japan Inc.’s insular ways.  Even so, enough top executives have successfully challenged
the status quo for Abe to take note. They have proven how much
change is possible, even within the claustrophobic constraints
of Japanese society and business. Abe should absorb the lesson.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Nisid Hajari at   nhajari@bloomberg.net  