-- WTI Retreats from 14-Month High as Supply Concern Eases
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2013-07-04T17:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-04/wti-trades-near-14-month-high-as-supply-drops-amid-egypt-unrest.html
West Texas Intermediate oil retreated
from the highest level in 14 months as the ouster of  Egypt ’s
president without widespread violence and continued shipments
through the  Suez Canal  eased concern of a supply disruption.  Futures fell as much as 0.5 percent in  New York  after
advancing for a third day yesterday. Egypt’s army forced Mohamed Mursi from power a year after his election, and a military-appointed interim president, Adly Mansour, was sworn in. The
political turmoil hasn’t interrupted flows through Suez or a
pipeline running through the most populous Arab country.  “The situation eases somewhat after the toppling of Mursi,
which leads to moderate downward pressure on prices,” said
 Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.
“But it is still too early to say that the situation is
improving significantly, hence, supply risks will continue to
lend support to prices.”  WTI for August delivery was at $101.12 a barrel, down 12
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 1:14 p.m. local time. The volume of all WTI futures traded
was 87 percent below the 100-day average. The U.S. benchmark
crude rose $1.64, or 1.7 percent, to $101.24 yesterday, the
highest settlement and first above $100 since May 3, 2012.  There is no floor trading in New York today because of the
U.S. Independence Day holiday. Electronic transactions will be
booked tomorrow for settlement purposes.  Loading Programs  Brent for August settlement lost 24 cents to trade at
$105.52 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe 
exchange. The European benchmark grade was at a premium of $4.40
to WTI contracts, from $4.52 yesterday. The spread was $4.40 on
July 2, the narrowest based on closing prices since Jan. 4,
2011.  North Sea oil field operators will release August loading
programs for various grades of crude today and tomorrow,
including the four varieties that make up the Dated Brent price
benchmark.  The  Bank of England  held its benchmark interest rate steady
today, in line with a Bloomberg survey of economists, in its
first meeting since the appointment of Governor  Mark Carney . The
 European Central Bank  also kept  interest rates  unchanged today,
as forecast by a Bloomberg economist survey.  “Thin trading volumes due to the U.S. holiday and the ECB
meeting can add to volatility in prices,” Fritsch said.  Egypt Unrest  Egypt’s army ousted Mursi, the country’s first
democratically elected civilian leader, saying it sought
stability. The televised announcement yesterday by Defense
Minister Abdelfatah al-Seesi drew cheers from the hundreds of
thousands of people gathered in Cairo’s Tahrir Square and across
the country the past four days. U.S. President  Barack Obama  said
he’s “deeply concerned” and urged the Egyptian military to
return to an elected civilian government as soon as possible.  Egypt controls the Suez Canal and the Suez-Mediterranean
Pipeline, through which a combined 2.24 million barrels a day of
oil was shipped from the  Red Sea  to Europe and  North America  in
2011, according to the EIA. The  Middle East  accounted for 35
percent of global oil output in the first quarter of this year,
according to the  International Energy Agency ’s latest monthly
oil market report.  Traffic at the Suez Canal was normal and the waterway was
guarded by military and police, Tarek Hassanein, spokesman for
the Suez Canal Authority, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  Fuel Supplies  U.S.  crude inventories  fell by 10.3 million barrels last
week, according to the Energy Information Administration. They
were projected to decline by 2.25 million, a Bloomberg News
survey showed.  U.S.  gasoline inventories  slid by 1.7 million barrels in
the week ended June 28, said the EIA, the Energy Department’s
statistical arm. Stockpiles were forecast to climb by 700,000
barrels, according to the median estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Refineries  operated  at 92.2 percent of capacity last week,
up 2 percentage points from the prior period, the EIA report
shows. That’s the highest rate since August. Plants typically
boost output this time of year to meet rising U.S. summer demand
for motor fuel.  “The drop in gasoline stocks despite higher refinery
utilization was bullish in particular,” Fritsch said. U.S. oil
demand “seems improving, but that is usual for this time of the
year.”  Distillate stockpiles, including heating oil and diesel,
decreased by 2.4 million barrels, compared with a projected 1
million increase in the survey.  WTI’s advance is stalling as prices may have risen too
quickly for further gains to be sustainable. The 14-day relative
strength index was at 68.2 yesterday, the highest since Feb. 1,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors typically
sell contracts when the reading is above 70, which signals a
market is overbought.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  