-- 
Los Angeles Looks for Revenue in ‘Crevices of Your Couch’ as Deficit Looms

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-03-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/l-a-looks-for-revenue-in-crevices-of-your-couch-as-gap-looms.html
Proposals to close  Los Angeles ’s
$54 million deficit this year and $1.86 billion of budget gaps
through 2015 will be made public today at City Hall.  A report by City Administrative Officer Miguel Santana to
Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa and the City Council also will
suggest ways the second-most-populous U.S. city can eliminate
municipal services or hire contractors for them to help curb
future budget imbalances. The current fiscal year ends in June.  “It’s basically the equivalent of going between the
crevices of your couch and trying to find any kind of revenue
you can,” Santana said at a luncheon meeting yesterday.  The city of about 3.8 million has reduced costs by cutting
4,000 jobs, renegotiating labor contracts and creating a tier of
lower pension benefits for newly hired police officers and
firefighters, Santana said. Los Angeles has 34,300 employees.  Personnel costs, including salary and benefit increases,
are driving the deficits, Santana said. Contributions to city
pension plans are expected to surge 48 percent to $1.29 billion
from 2012 to 2015, according to information he distributed at
the meeting of the  Central City Association of Los Angeles , a
business-advocacy group.  “The city has essentially a ghost workforce that’s the
same size as the existing workforce,” Santana said. “We have
about 30,000 retirees and that population continues to grow,
primarily because people keep living longer.”  Santana made the comments during a panel discussion on the
fiscal outlook for Los Angeles.  ‘Not Bankrupt’  “The good news is we’re not bankrupt,” Santana said.
“The bad news is we continue to face unprecedented
challenges.”  Labor leaders will work with the city to find ways to
bridge the gaps, said Julie Butcher, regional director of the
 Service Employees International Union , during the discussion.
Her organization represents 11,000 Los Angeles employees.  “This is not like a business that closes its doors,” she
said. “The workers of Los Angeles are going to help figure out
how to save the city.”  A proposal to lease nine city-owned garages to private
operators for 50 years, raising $300 million in upfront payments
to cover current budget deficits, was rejected last month by the
City Council. Residents opposed the step, on concern that it
might jeopardize subsidized parking rates.  The city could still pursue a garage-management contract
with a private operator apart from a long-term lease, Gerry
Miller, Los Angeles’s chief legislative analyst, said during the
panel discussion.  The  Los Angeles Zoo  and municipal computer systems are two
areas that may be better managed by contractors, Santana said.  Today’s report “is really about asking what kind of things
we aren’t going to be doing anymore or what kind of things we’re
going to be doing differently,” Santana said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  