-- 
‘Frost Belt’ Minnesota Stays Hotter Than Neighbors With Diverse Economy

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-03-17T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/-frost-belt-minnesota-stays-hotter-than-neighbors-with-diverse-economy.html
  Minnesota ’s snow and cold aren’t
deterring residents drawn to its thriving medical technology
industry, performing arts and service jobs that attract
immigrants from as far as sub-Saharan  Africa .  The state’s  population  grew 7.8 percent between 2000 and
2010, more than anywhere else in the Midwest except  South
Dakota , to reach 5,303,925 people. More than 80 percent of the
increase came from minorities, U.S. Census Bureau data released
yesterday show.  Non-Hispanic whites remain because of a diverse economy
marked by technology companies such as  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) , the
world’s largest maker of heart devices, and a cultural scene
known for Garrison Keillor’s “ A Prairie Home Companion ” radio
show. Immigrants are pulled by service-sector jobs and
affordable housing.  “For a frost-belt place, we do really well,” said Tom
Gillaspy, the state’s  demographer . “We weren’t so much into
heavy industry, like the folks to the east of us.”  The economic diversity has helped Minnesota weather
economic downturns that have hurt other cold-weather states.  Companies with headquarters in Minnesota include  Target
Corp. (TGT) ,  3M Co. (MMM) , Best Buy Co.,  General Mills Inc. (GIS)  and  Piper
Jaffray Cos. (PJC)  It’s also home to former Governor  Tim Pawlenty , a
potential 2012 Republican presidential candidate.  Twin Cities    Minneapolis  and St. Paul, the state’s two largest cities,
both saw slight population declines, as suburban counties that
circle them grew, census data show. Minneapolis saw its
population drop by 40 people to 382,578, while St. Paul lost
2,083 people to finish the decade at 285,068, a 0.7 percent
decline.  Rochester, home to the  Mayo Clinic  in southeastern
Minnesota, is the state’s third-largest city. Its population
grew 24.4 percent to 106,769, the census found.  During the worst recession since the Great Depression,
Minnesota’s unemployment never was as high as the national
average. It peaked at 8.4 percent in May and June 2009 and has
been on the decline since. By January, the most recent month
available, it was down to 6.7 percent, below the U.S. average of
8.9 percent in February.  The Bloomberg Star Tribune 100 Index, a price-weighted
measure of Minnesota companies, is up 11.4 percent in the past
year. Compared with the 8.4 percent recorded by the  Standard &
Poor’s  500 index, those Minnesota-based stocks are above
average, not unlike the children in the fictional town of Lake
Wobegon that plays a central role in Keillor’s weekly radio
program, which started in  St. Paul  in 1974.  Political Capital  Minnesota’s population grew less than the national average
of 9.7 percent during the decade, though it was enough for the
state to maintain its eight seats in the U.S. House.  Non-Hispanic whites account for 83.1 percent of the state’s
population, down from 88.2 percent in 2000. The Hispanic
population grew by 74.5 percent during the decade and represents
4.7 percent of the population. The number of black residents
soared 59.4 percent while Asians increased 51 percent. Blacks
now represent 5.1 percent of the population, while Asians are 4
percent.  Though Minnesota offers “radically different” weather
than their native lands, immigrants from Somalia, Kenya and
Liberia are some of the state’s most recent arrivals, Gillaspy
said. Yesterday’s census release doesn’t include data detailed
enough to identify the growth of those groups.  African Migration  Somalians started coming to Minnesota in the mid-1990s,
after first arriving in eastern U.S. states, Gillaspy said, as
the state was experiencing a  labor shortage . There are about
20,000 people in Minnesota born in  Somalia  and the full
community, including children, is about 30,000 people, he said.  Minnesota’s secret to success is a long tradition of
economic diversity, said  Bill Blazar , a senior vice president
for the  Minnesota Chamber of Commerce .  “We are a good 400 miles off of the major east-west trade
route,” he said. “We’re very much a part of the world economy
now, but 100 years ago we were pretty isolated.”  The state’s economy includes a farm sector benefiting from
corn and soybean prices that, before a falloff this month, were
at levels not seen in more than two years.  While Minnesota’s unemployment rate is below the national
average, Blazar said companies tied to housing, such as Andersen
Corp., a Bayport, Minnesota-based manufacturer of windows and
doors, have been hurt by the recession.  ‘Still Edgy’  “People are still very edgy about where the economy is
headed,” he said. “It’s not like we are invulnerable, but the
fact that we are diverse helps.”  The state was a leader in  mainframe computers  in the 1970s
and saw a decline with the emergence of the personal computer,
Gillaspy said.  “It really caught us in the early 1980s, but the
transition started then increasingly to high-tech medical
products,” he said.  St. Jude Medical Inc., the world’s second-biggest maker of
heart-rhythm devices, after Medtronic, is also based in
Minnesota, as are medical technology companies  Vital Images Inc. (VTAL) 
and  Vascular Solutions Inc. (VASC)   Most of the state’s  population growth  took place around the
Minneapolis-St. Paul metropolitan area, as well as a corridor
from St. Cloud in central Minnesota to Rochester.  St. Cloud, the state’s eighth-largest city, grew 11.4
percent during the decade. Duluth, the fourth-largest city, saw
its population drop 0.8 percent.  Ice Queen  Minnesota’s reputation for frigid weather started in 1819
when soldiers at the frontier post of  Fort Snelling  wrote
letters to relatives on the East Coast about the cold, according
to the  Minnesota Department of Natural Resources .  International Falls, in the northern part of the state, is
the coldest major National Weather Service station outside of  Alaska , with an average annual temperature of 37.5 degrees
Fahrenheit (3 degrees Celsius), and Minneapolis-St. Paul is the
coldest major U.S. population center, the state agency said.  The weather leads to jokes about the cold and snow, even as
Minnesota keeps growing. The state’s companies exported a record
$4.6 billion in products in the fourth quarter of 2010, the
Minnesota Department of Employment and Economic Development said
in a March 15  news release .  “It’s not always real exciting, but it is pretty
regular,” Gillaspy said of Minnesota’s population and business
growth. “That has served the state well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in  Chicago  at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net . 