-- 
L’Oreal Latin American Head Aims to Double Brazil Sales by 2015

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-03-17T23:01:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/l-oreal-latin-american-head-aims-to-double-brazil-sales-by-2015.html
  L’Oreal SA (OR) , the world’s largest
cosmetics maker, aims to double sales in Brazil by 2015 and add
50 million new customers there in the next decade as Latin
America’s largest economy expands.  “We are still very much in opportunity territory,” said
Alexandre Popoff, head of Paris-based L’Oreal’s business in
Latin America,  Africa  and the Middle East, in an interview.
“The big part of the growth will be coming from mass-market
products.”  The company may also buy a Brazilian brand to expand in the
country, where consumers spend more per capita on cosmetics than
in any other so-called BRIC nation. L’Oreal plans to use its 1.5
billion-euro ($2.1 billion) cash pile to make acquisitions,
Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Agon said last month.  Agon has said “he would like to have in his portfolio a
Brazilian brand and an Indian brand,” Popoff said, declining
further comment on the matter.  L’Oreal’s Brazilian sales climbed 21 percent to 705 million
euros in 2010, making it the company’s seventh-largest country,
Popoff said. As much as 70 percent of its sales there last year
came from mass-market products like  Total Repair 5  shampoo and
Colorama nail varnish.  Brazil  is tied with  China  as the world’s
third-largest country for cosmetics overall after the U.S. and  Japan , according to L’Oreal.  Post-Shampoo Products  Hair-care is a key part of the company’s growth strategy,
Popoff said. More than 60 percent of women in Brazil use four or
five hair-care products a day, making the nation the world’s
largest for the category by volume and second to the U.S. in
terms of value, the executive said.  “Women in Brazil use a lot of post-shampoo products”
because of their hair type and outdoor lifestyle, he said. Those
two factors plus a strengthening economy “explains why the
market is so important.”  The French company is seeking to win customers in Brazil
through new products like  L’Oreal Paris Elseve Hydra Max 
shampoo, which was developed at its Rio de Janeiro factory,
Popoff said. About 20 percent of L’Oreal’s annual sales in
Brazil come from new products, the executive said.  Seven-Day Moisturizer  L’Oreal plans to accelerate investment in research and
development in Brazil, where it currently employs 20
researchers. The company is introducing products including a
Garnier body lotion it claims will moisturize for seven days.  Separately,  Avon Products Inc. (AVP) , whose sales reached $10.9
billion last year, has been touted as a possible takeover target
for L’Oreal by beauty industry specialists including Strategic
Resource Group’s Burt Flickinger. Avon gets more than 40 percent
of its sales from Latin America where consumers are accustomed
to buying cosmetics, skincare and fragrances from door-to-door
vendors.  L’Oreal won’t get into direct selling, Popoff said. “We
are really focusing on the channels that we know best.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 