-- 
H&R Block Says Chairman Breeden Stepping Down to Concentrate on Hedge Fund

-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 
2011-03-18T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/h-r-block-chairman-breeden-steps-down-to-focus-on-hedge-fund.html
  H&R Block Inc. (HRB) , the biggest U.S.
tax preparer, said Richard C. Breeden will step down as chairman
more than three years after the hedge-fund manager and former
securities regulator seized control in a proxy fight.  Breeden, 61, plans to leave at the end of the tax season on
April 18, the Kansas City, Missouri-based company said yesterday
in a statement. He intends to devote more time to his hedge
fund, Breeden Capital Management, H&R Block said. The firm
didn’t name a successor.  “I am looking forward to having more time to work on some
of Breeden Capital’s more recent investments,” Breeden said in
the statement.  Breeden, the former head of the Securities and Exchange
Commission and a senior adviser to Presidents  Ronald Reagan  and  George H.W. Bush , was elected chairman Sept. 6, 2007. He won a
proxy contest after saying H&R Block had underperformed. Since
then, H&R Block’s total return including dividends was minus 10
percent, compared with a 6.8 percent decline for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  H&R Block rose 7 cents to $15.89 yesterday on the New York
Stock Exchange and has advanced 33 percent this year. As of Dec.
31, Breeden Capital Management owned 13.3 million shares.  Chief Executive Officer Alan Bennett, 60, stepped up
marketing to recapture market share lost to  Intuit Inc. (INTU) , the
maker of TurboTax, and to counter the firm’s inability to offer
clients refund-anticipation loans this year. The company
reported a 30 percent increase in online clients in the fiscal
third quarter ended Jan. 31.  ‘Credit Collapse’  Bennett took over last year from Russell Smyth, whose July
7 resignation followed the departures of General Counsel Brian Woram and Chief Financial Officer Becky Shulman. A week later
the board received a letter from Thomas Bloch, a member of the
family that built the firm, saying he wouldn’t seek re-election
as a director because of disagreements with Breeden and “the
intense pressure from short-term oriented shareholders.”  Smyth, the former president of  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) ’s European
unit, was brought in by Breeden in 2008 to help turn around the
tax preparer after it racked up more than $1 billion in losses
tied to subprime home loans.  In yesterday’s statement, H&R Block said Breeden helped the
company refinance $500 million in bridge loans originally
incurred during its foray into mortgage lending. His hedge fund
purchased $50 million of common stock, enabling the firm to
“withstand the credit collapse that struck the global financial
market,” the statement said.  H&R Block also took steps to improve its corporate
governance such as separating the roles of chairman and CEO,
adopting  term limits  for directors and giving shareholders more
influence over executives’ compensation, the company said.  “This is now a vastly stronger company,” Breeden said in
the statement. “I feel truly confident in saying ‘Mission
Accomplished.’”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  