-- 
3M Says Japan Disaster Recovery May Exceed Katrina Spending

-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 
2011-03-17T22:07:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/3m-sees-japan-repair-bill-of-as-much-as-150-billion.html
  3M Co. (MMM)  said rebuilding work in
Japan may total $200 billion, more than the projected spending
after  Hurricane Katrina , and the company is ramping up
production of respiratory-protection products for the recovery.  Japan’s efforts probably will spur faster growth after an
initial economic lull, 3M said in an investor  presentation  on
its website today. The cost may be $50 billion to $150 billion,
according to the presentation, while Chief Executive Officer  George Buckley  said the total may reach $200 billion.  The top end of  St. Paul , Minnesota-based 3M’s forecast for
Japan’s post-earthquake reconstruction would exceed the  $70
billion to $130 billion  that the U.S. government estimated would
be required to rebuild the  Gulf Coast  after hurricanes Katrina
and Rita in 2005.  “Japan has got the capability economically, and
psychologically and skill-wise, to be able to rebuild,” Buckley
said at conference for investors. “Ultimately, this could turn
out to be quite a good opportunity.”  3M, the maker of products ranging from Scotch Tape to
sandpaper, is well positioned to work on the recovery, and is
boosting output of safety-related gear, Chief Financial Officer
Patrick Campbell said. These include 3M’s N95 respirators, said
Jacqueline Berry, a company spokeswoman.  Minor Damage  Japan represents about 9 percent of 3M’s sales, and the
company has 2,700 workers there, all of whom are safe. About 10
employees lost homes, Buckley said. 3M’s five manufacturing
sites in the Asian country suffered only minor damage,
executives said. 3M’s largest businesses in  Japan  are industrial
and consumer-related.  “We do have good insurance in Japan,” Campbell said.
“This is going to take a long time to figure out who’s going to
pay, on what policies and what the interpretation is going to
be.”  3M climbed $1.14, or 1.3 percent, to $88.69 at 4:50 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
gained 2.8 percent this year.  The devastation from the earthquake and tsunami in Japan
has created demand for construction, telecommunications,
electrical and safety products, as well as earth-moving
equipment, boats and cars, Buckley said.  3M is reviewing global supply lines to make sure it can
meet customer needs after disruptions to Japanese roads, fuel
supplies and utilities, Campbell said.  Big Issue  “The big issue in Japan right now is the logistics,”
Campbell said.  There is no society more organized and disciplined than
Japan’s, where roads were cleared for emergency responders on
March 12, a day after the earthquake and tsunami, Buckley said.  “There’s $70 billion of insured property in that part of
Japan,” Buckley said. “The Japanese government says they’re
going to put $150 billion into the economy there, so $50 to
$150, $50 to $200 billion, possibly of reinvestment in Japan
there,” he said.  Once such disruptions are corrected, 3M is poised to
benefit from the reconstruction, Steven Winoker, a New York-
based analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., wrote in a note
yesterday. He has an “outperform” rating on the shares.  “While we understand there is no immediate damage to
operations, we have no doubt that near-term supply chain
disruptions will be another headwind for the business,” Winoker
wrote. “Once lines are restored we would expect 3M to
participate more broadly in rebuilding efforts than most.”  3M’s top management is going through transition, with
Campbell retiring this year and Buckley’s employment contract
expiring next year on his 65th birthday.  In response to a question at the meeting, Buckley said he
was still interested in defeating the competition and “going
out and slaying dragons,” and said the decision on whether he
stays as CEO rests with 3M’s board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Daley in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  