-- 
Lady Gaga, Yoko Ono, Morgan, Goldman Boost Japan Aid Funds

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-03-17T17:42:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/lady-gaga-yoko-ono-google-s-schmidt-goldman-give-to-japan-relief-effort.html
Lady Gaga designed a bracelet,  Yoko
Ono  joined a concert and  Wall Street  dug into its deep pockets.  Individual and corporate aid efforts for Japan have mounted
quickly this week in the wake of the earthquake and tsunami that
devastated the nation.  “I designed a Japan prayer bracelet,” Lady Gaga posted on
 her Twitter  feed earlier this week. “Buy It/Donate here and ALL
proceeds will go to Tsunami Relief Efforts.”  Orders for the $5 bracelet with “We Pray for Japan” in
English and Japanese raised more than $250,000 in 48 hours.  The  American Red Cross  has received about $47 million
in donations. More than $2.6 million of that came from $10 gifts
the public texted to the organization  by phone , Attie Poirier, a
Red Cross spokeswoman in  Washington , said in a phone interview.    Morgan Stanley (MS)  Japan gave $1.2 million to relief efforts,  Sandra Hernandez , a New York-based Morgan Stanley spokeswoman,
said by phone.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  announced that it will
give 500 million yen ($6.3 million).    JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  pledged $5 million and will match as
much as $1 million in contributions made by the company’s
220,000 employees to the American Red Cross and  World Vision , a
charity based in Washington state that finds sponsors for
impoverished children.    Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , a global securities firm and
investment bank, said it has donated $1 million to the relief
effort and will also give all net equity trading revenue
generated this week by its Asia-based offices. On Wednesday, the
company donated all equity trading revenue from its U.S. and
European offices.  Lady Gaga used her website to advertise the fundraising
effort of  Eric Schmidt ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s chief executive officer,
and his wife, Wendy. They pledged last Saturday to match the
first $100,000 the public donated to  Citizen Effect , a
Washington-based nonprofit that links philanthropists with
projects.  ‘Lady Gaga Effect’  Before Lady Gaga nudged Twitter visitors to give Schmidt a
hand, the Google executive had raised $3,000 in 24 hours. After
the singer raised the flag Sunday, donations rose sharply. To
date, Schmidt’s match pledge has drawn more than $70,000.  “The money is coming in pretty steadily now,” Dan
Morrison, Citizen Effect’s founder and chief executive officer,
said by phone. “There was definitely a Lady Gaga effect.”  Japan Society , a New York nonprofit that promotes cultural
exchange, has received more than $835,000 in unsolicited
donations from the public. It set up a  Japan Earthquake Relief
Fund  and will give it 50 percent of income generated by events
held from March 14 to June 30 at the center, spokesman Shannon
Jowett said.  “We have had a history of raising funds for various
disasters going back to the 1923 earthquake in  Japan ,” Jowett
said by phone about the 103-year-old organization. “What we saw
was an overwhelming desire of people to help and not knowing
where to go. So we just established the fund for people wanting
to give money.”  Sonic Youth  Ono, her son,  Sean Lennon , singer-songwriter Mike Patton
and the rock band Sonic Youth will be among the acts performing
at a New York benefit organized by avant garde saxophonist  John
Zorn  at Columbia University’s  Miller Theater  on March 27.  Zorn, a composer and recipient of a “genius” grant from the
John D. & Catherine T.  MacArthur Foundation,  said the response
from performers was “overwhelming,” so he set up two more
shows at  Manhattan ’s  Abrons Art Center  on April 8 and two at the
Japan Society on April 9. He’s currently in talks to put
together another benefit at  St. Ann’s Warehouse  in Brooklyn.  “There was no hesitation in anyone’s voice when I called
them, not even a scintilla,” Zorn said by phone. “They said,
‘Sign me up, I’m down with it.’”  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 