-- 
Most German Stocks Gain on G-7 Yen Intervention; BASF, SAP Rise

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-03-18T16:53:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/air-berlin-derby-cycle-eckert-ziegler-german-equity-preview.html
Most German stocks rose as  Libya 
declared a cease-fire and the Group of Seven nations agreed to
sell the yen to ease concern that Japan will sink into recession
following the March 11 earthquake.  K+S AG and  BASF SE (BAS)  advanced as analysts recommended their
shares. SAP AG rose 1.6 percent as the world’s largest maker of
business-management software proposed a 20 percent increase in
its dividend.  Adidas AG (ADS)  declined after rival Nike Inc. reported
profit that missed analysts’ estimates for the first time in 19
straight quarters.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  climbed 7.52, or 0.1 percent, to
6,664.4 at the 5:30 p.m. close in  Frankfurt , trimming its weekly
retreat to 4.5 percent. Six stocks rose for every five that
fell. The gauge has tumbled 10 percent from this year’s high on
Feb. 18 amid concern that higher  oil prices  prompted by Arab
revolts would curb global economic growth and as a 9-magnitude
earthquake, the biggest on record in  Japan , struck the northeast
part of the country. The broader HDAX Index added 0.2 percent
today.  “It’s a positive sign for the market to hear the G-7, the
Fed and the ECB say they’re sticking together with the  Bank of
Japan  to help the Japanese economy,” said Heinz-Gerd Sonnenschein, an equity strategist at Deutsche Postbank AG in
Bonn.  The G-7 jointly intervened in the foreign-exchange market
for the first time in more than a decade, selling the Japanese
currency as their markets opened. The strong yen had threatened
to hamper Japan’s recovery from its worst postwar crisis by
curtailing the earnings of its exporters.  Crippled Reactors  Engineers in Japan worked into the night to restore power
to two of the crippled reactors at the country’s damaged
Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant. Tokyo Electric Power Co. said it
may finish reconnecting a power line to the No. 1 and No. 2
reactors by tomorrow morning. The electrical link would be used
to restart pumps needed to protect fuel rods from overheating.  Stocks across  Europe  rose as Libyan Foreign Minister Moussa Koussa said the nation is ceasing all military action and will
start talks with the opposition.  K+S rose 1.3 percent to 50.62 euros as Europe’s biggest
potash producer was raised to “buy” from “hold” at
Commerzbank AG, which said an improvement in potash volumes and
a pickup in prices are not reflected in the stock’s current
valuation.  BASF gained 1.7 percent to 56.25 euros as the world’s
biggest chemicals company was raised to “overweight” from
“neutral” at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  SAP, Deutsche Wohnen  SAP advanced 1.6 percent to 40.73 euros as it proposed a 20
percent increase in its annual dividend to 60 euro cents a
share.    Deutsche Wohnen AG (DWNI) ,  Germany ’s second-largest publicly
traded residential landlord, climbed 3.3 percent to 10.64 euros
as the stock was rated “buy” in new coverage at Deutsche Bank
AG.  Adidas lost 1.4 percent to 43.22 euros. Net income rose to
$1.08 a share in the fiscal third quarter ended Feb. 28, Nike
said yesterday in a statement. That compared with the $1.12
average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net  