-- 
Air Force Chief Says No-Fly Zone May Take Week to Impose

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-03-17T21:18:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/air-force-chief-says-no-fly-zone-may-take-week-to-impose-1-.html
Imposing a no-fly zone over  Libya 
may take “upwards of a week,” U.S. Air Force Chief of Staff
General Norton Schwartz told a Senate committee today.  Schwartz dismissed as “overly optimistic” public
estimates that setting up a zone might be accomplished in a few
days. “But it is clear we could establish a no-fly zone if that
was the mission,” he told the Senate Armed Services Committee
during a budget hearing.  “The question is, is a no-fly zone the last step or is it
the first step,” because that alone “would not be sufficient
to reverse the momentum” of Libya’s military forces against the
rebels, he said. Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  said on state
television that his forces will begin an assault on the rebel
stronghold of Benghazi tonight.  The Pentagon, in a detailed, unclassified listing of
Libya’s air defense and  air force , said the majority of
Qaddafi’s surface-to-air missile batteries are along the
Mediterranean coast.  The missiles include Russian-made SA-2, SA-3, SA-5, SA-6,
and  SA-13  systems, the Pentagon said.  The SA-5, at its longest range of 300 kilometers, provides
Libya “significant standoff capability,” said the statement.
Libya has about 50  SA-6  missiles of the type used by Bosnian
Serbs to shoot down Captain Scott O’Grady’s F-16 in 1995.  Missile Threat  The air defense system is spread over 30 missile sites,
which are alerted by more than 15 early warning radars, said the
list, provided by a spokesman, U.S. Navy Commander Robert Mehal.  The “existence of these systems poses a significant threat
to U.S. and NATO aircraft,” the statement said.  Libya’s air force has some advanced aircraft including more
than 100 MiG jets, 30 helicopters and 15 transport aircraft,
“but much of it is obsolete or inoperable,” the Pentagon said.  Libya’s air force includes only one squadron of advanced
ground attack aircraft, the Russia SU-24. As much as 80 percent
of the air force is “non-operational,” the Pentagon statement
said.  The U.S. aerial armada “would undoubtedly” include F-16
jets outfitted to attack radar sites, bombers capable of
dwelling over Libya for hours, and, at least in the early stage,
the stealth F-22 Raptor made by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , Schwartz
said.  RC-135  Rivet Joint  electronic eavesdropping and
surveillance aircraft would take part, along with EC-130H
 Compass Call  planes for jamming communications. “This would be
a complete force application,” Schwartz said.  UN Debate  The  United Nations  is debating today whether to support the
Libyan opposition with a no-fly zone or other military action.  Speaking today in  Tunisia , U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said options being considered for action against Libya
include the use of drones, bombing air defense systems and
arming rebel forces.  “The overall readiness of Libyan aircraft is poor by
western standards and most aircraft are now dated or obsolete in
terms of avionics or upgrades,” the Pentagon statement said.
“Overhaul and combat repair capability is also limited.”  Libya’s attack helicopter squadron consists of Russian
Hinds and “readiness is reportedly poor,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  