-- 
Airbus Charged by French Court Over 2009 Rio Flight That Killed 288 People

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-03-17T18:17:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/airbus-charged-with-manslaughter-in-air-france-plane-crash.html
Airbus SAS was charged with
manslaughter over the fatal crash of an Air France jetliner into
the Atlantic while en route from  Brazil  to Paris in June 2009.  The preliminary charges, filed after a French investigating
judge met with Airbus’s lawyers, allow the continuation of a
probe into the crash of Flight 447, which killed all 228 people
on board. The judge will meet with Air France tomorrow.  “On behalf of Airbus, I have noted the absence of facts
supporting this step and stated our strong disagreement,”  Tom Enders , the Toulouse, France-based company’s chief executive
officer, told reporters as he left the judge’s office in Paris.  Airbus, which made the A330 plane, is focused on finding
the cause of the accident, something that requires further
searches for missing “black boxes,” or flight recorders, Enders
said. The criminal investigation is running parallel with a
probe by safety experts into the reasons for the crash.  Three searches have so far failed to locate either further
wreckage or the recorders, which should contain critical
information about the flight’s last moments.  The BEA,  France ’s air-accident investigator, will resume
scouring 17,000 square kilometers (6,600 square miles) of seabed
next month. It has said there can be no certainty about the
cause of the accident unless the boxes are found.  Speed Sensors  The probe into the crash has focused on the plane’s speed
sensors, known as Pitot tubes. The devices may have been damaged
by ice, causing unreliable speed readings that contributed to
the accident, the BEA said after reviewing data transmitted by
the doomed plane in its last minutes.  Air France spokesman Cedric Leurquin said the meeting
between its lawyers and the investigating magistrate is set for
“late morning” tomorrow. He declined to comment further.  France is one of the few countries where fatal accidents
automatically prompt criminal probes to run concurrently with
investigations by civil authorities.  The twin-track approach bogged down the investigation into
the crash of an Air France Concorde on July 25, 2000, with the
criminal trial starting almost 10 years after the accident and
seven years after the supersonic jet’s last commercial flight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse, France, at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  