-- 
Alibaba Profit Beats Estimates as Services Sales Increase

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-03-17T16:53:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/alibaba-fourth-quarter-net-profit-rises-to-410-4-million-yuan.html
  Alibaba.com Ltd. (1688) , the Chinese e-
commerce company seeking to recover from a fraud scandal, posted
profit that beat analyst estimates as customers spent more to
promote their products.  Fourth-quarter net income rose 46 percent to 410.4 million
yuan ($62.4 million), or 0.08 yuan a share, from 281.2 million
yuan, or 0.06 yuan, a year earlier, the Hangzhou, east China-
based company said in a statement today. That compares with the
400.2 million-yuan average of five analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue increased 38 percent to 1.52 billion yuan.  Alibaba boosted sales of trade-advisory and marketing
services to Chinese exporters offering everything from clothing
to cutlery before David Wei resigned as chief executive officer
last month as the company said some employees helped defraud
buyers. New CEO Jonathan Lu said today that user traffic on the
company’s website was unaffected by the disclosure.  Buyer activity on Alibaba’s online marketplace set a record
this month, Lu said in a conference call with analysts, without
giving details.  Wei and former Chief Operating Officer Elvis Lee resigned
to take responsibility for a “systematic breakdown” of
integrity, Alibaba said Feb. 21. More than 2,300 vendors used
the company’s website to defraud buyers, and about 100 employees
were responsible for letting sellers create bogus storefronts,
Alibaba said. Wei and Lee weren’t accused of wrongdoing.  Underperforming Stock  Alibaba fell 4.2 percent to close at HK$13.80 in Hong Kong
trading today before the earnings announcement and has declined
17 percent since Feb. 21. The stock this year has underperformed  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , China’s biggest Internet company, and
Baidu Inc., owner of the country’s most popular search engine.  “Growth was driven by the value-added services,” Muzhi Li, who rates Alibaba “hold” at Mizuho Securities in Hong
Kong, said before the earnings. “The brand and the reputation
have been tarnished, and the company has to address the
credibility issue.”  Alibaba increased revenue from services such as keyword
advertising, logistics advisory and customer training, and is
less reliant on annual membership fees paid by sellers. Demand
for the so-called value-added services will help improve the
company’s profitability, Chief Financial Officer Maggie Wu said
in the conference call.  Gold Supplier Program  Alibaba added about 12,700 members for its  China  Gold
Supplier program for exporters last quarter, compared with more
than 11,000 a year earlier. In January, the company increased
the one-year membership fees 50 percent to 29,800 yuan.  More than 1,200 Gold Suppliers in 2009 and 1,107 in 2010
engaged in fraud, according to the findings from an internal
investigation by Alibaba, the company said last month. About 100
of the company’s 5,000 sales representatives, as well as some
supervisors and managers, were either intentionally or
negligently allowing the vendors to evade the company’s
authentication and verification measures to form “fraudulent
storefronts” for international customers.  Alibaba.com is changing its focus from the “quantity” of
customer additions to “quality,” Wu said. The shift may
restrain growth of paying members, she said.  Yahoo! Inc., the most-visited U.S. Web portal, is the
biggest shareholder in closely held Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.,
the parent company of Hong Kong-listed Alibaba.com.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  