-- 
Almirall Names Eduardo Sanchiz as CEO, Replacing Gallardo

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-03-17T14:40:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/almirall-names-eduardo-sanchiz-as-ceo-replacing-gallardo-1-.html
  Almirall SA (ALM) , a Spanish
pharmaceutical company, named Eduardo Sanchiz Yrazu as its new
chief executive officer effective July 1, replacing Jorge Gallardo Ballart.  Sanchiz, 54, is Almirall’s chief financial officer and will
replace Gallardo, 69, who is stepping down as CEO to focus on
his role as executive chairman of the board, the Barcelona-based
company said today in a statement. Gallardo became CEO of
Almirall in 1997 and chairman in 2001.  Sanchiz joined Almirall in 2004 as executive general
director for finance and corporate development and has 30 years
of experience in the pharmaceutical industry, the company said.  The change in management “shouldn’t have a great impact as
it doesn’t mean a radical change with the company’s policy,”
Elena Fernandez, an analyst at Ahorro Corp. Financiera in  Madrid , said by phone today.  Jorge Gallardo and his brother Antonio Gallardo, first
vice chairman of the company, are controlling shareholders who
as of Dec. 31 had a 62.57 percent stake.  “The board has full confidence in Eduardo Sanchiz’s global
leadership capabilities based on his experience, his knowledge
of the industry and his ability to provide direction and align
and engage people,” the company said in a press release.  Cannabis Treatment  Almirall said March 14 it won approval to market its
Sativex drug in  Spain  as a treatment of spasticity in multiple
sclerosis patients who aren’t responding to other therapies.
Sativex was the first cannabis-derived treatment to be approved
in the country. Almirall also plans to start selling Sativex in  Germany ,  Sweden  and  Denmark  this year, the drugmaker said.  The company signed a contract on Feb. 24 with Kyorin
Pharmaceutical Co. to sell Almirall’s lung treatment drug in  Japan .  Net income dropped to 118.6 million euros ($166 million) in
2010 from 151.5 million euros a year earlier as sales fell to
882.4 million euros from 925.5 million euros. The company may
see net income decline to 115.8 million euros this year, with
sales falling to 829.7 million euros, according to the average
of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  