-- 
Almost Half of U.S., Including New Jersey, Faces Flood Risk

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-03-17T15:00:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/almost-half-of-u-s-including-new-jersey-faces-flood-risk.html
Almost half the U.S., including
crop-growing regions of the Midwest and areas around  New York
City  and northern  New Jersey , has a higher-than-average risk of
flooding through April, according to government forecasters.  The Mississippi River north of  St. Louis , the Red River of
the North and parts of New York, eastern  Pennsylvania  and
northern New Jersey are among the areas cited by the  National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration  as at risk for above-
average flooding.  “For the third consecutive year, the stage is set for
potential widespread, record flooding in the north-central  United States ,” Jack Hayes, National Weather Service director,
said in a statement. “All the ingredients are in place for
major flooding so this situation should be taken very
seriously.”  Floods in 2008 and 2009 along the Mississippi and Red
rivers caused billions of dollars in damage, killed thousands of
stock animals and drove thousands of families from their homes.
An average of 100 people die each year in floods, according to
the agency.  As of 9:30 a.m.  New York  time, flood advisories or flood
warnings were posted in 25 states, according to the  weather
service .  Worst to Come  “With spring flooding already under way over portions of
the U.S., NOAA forecasters are warning the worst is yet to
come,” the agency said.  The flood risk is high because of heavy rains that soaked
the soil and froze in place before the water could run off; more
snow than normal across much of the country; and new storms as
the Northern Hemisphere’s spring approaches, according to the
statement.  Flooding also causes planting delays that may curb wheat
output for a third year in the U.S., the world’s largest
exporter of the grain. Global wheat inventories already were
eroded by floods in Australia and  Canada  and a drought in  Russia 
that sent prices to a two-year high last month. World food
prices tracked by the  United Nations  reached a record in
February.  “Right now, there is strong interest in wheat” from
traders because of the potential threat to U.S. production, said
Jim Peterson, the marketing director of the  North Dakota  Wheat
Commission, a Bismarck-based industry group. If floods delay the
start of spring planting until late April, “you’ll start seeing
the market get quite concerned,” he said.  New Jersey Flooding  Last year, flooding also damaged 7,337 homes in New Jersey
and caused President  Barack Obama  to declare a disaster in the
state, according to the  Federal Emergency Management Agency .  Storms and severe weather in 2008 killed at least 24 people
and caused 3.4 million acres of land to flood as the  Mississippi
River  swelled its banks. Flooding contributed to $8 billion in
damage to crops in the first six months of 2008, according to an
American Farm Bureau estimate at the time.  The  Red River of the North , which forms the border between
Minnesota and North Dakota, spilled its banks in 2009, killing
about 91,000 cattle and causing about $223.7 million in damage,
according to estimates by both states.  In Fargo, 2.5 million sandbags have been filled and new
flood barriers have been purchased to help keep back the river,
which flooded for a record 61 days in 2009, Mayor Dennis Walaker
said in an interview.  Above-Normal Precipitation  From Dec. 1 to Feb. 28, more than three times the normal
amount of rain and snow fell across southern  Minnesota ,
according to the Midwest Regional Climate Center, a joint
program of the National Climatic Data Center and the Illinois
State Water Survey.  From Sept. 1 to Nov. 30, two to three times the normal
amount of rain fell across the same area, said Carrie Olheiser,
operations manager for the  National Operational Hydrologic
Remote Sensing Center  in Chanhassen, Minnesota.  Much of that water will end up in the Red River, which
flows from south to north, she said.  “There is a lot of water in the system,” Olheiser said.
“All the pieces are there. If we get some real rapid warm-ups
with some rain on it, then we can have a real significant
situation. It really depends on how this melts out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  