-- 
Aluminum’s Contango Steepens as Oil Prices Advance, BofA Says

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-03-17T16:07:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/aluminum-s-contango-steepens-as-oil-prices-advance-bofa-says.html
Aluminum futures moved more deeply
into contango in the last few weeks on concern that higher  oil
prices  may boost production costs, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch.  The spread between aluminum for 15-month delivery on the
London Metal Exchange and cash metal was at $115.25 a metric ton
today based on official prices, widening from $96.25 at the end
of February and $67.25 on the last day of January. Crude rose to
a 29-month high of $106.95 a barrel in  New York  on March 7.  “You often find that when energy prices rise, the forward
prices tend to perform better than the nearby prices,” London-
based Bank of America Merrill Lynch analyst  Michael Widmer  said
in an interview March 11.  Aluminum production is “energy-intensive,” so smelters
are often found in locations with plentiful resources of
inexpensive energy such as hydropower, according to the
International Aluminium Institute. Producing a kilogram (2.2
pounds) of the lightweight metal from alumina takes 15.7
kilowatt hours of electricity on average, its website shows.  Contango describes a market structure in which later-dated
futures trade at higher prices than contracts for earlier
delivery.  Widmer also said metal held in warehouses that’s locked
into financing transactions will probably stay there because the
price movement made it more profitable to renew the accords.
About 70 percent of aluminum inventories tracked by the LME are
tied to financing transactions, according to estimates by
Societe Generale SA analyst  David Wilson .  Steeper Curve  “Economics of financing deals have improved during the
past two weeks because the forward curve has steepened,” Widmer
said. “The more economic those financing deals are, the less
likely you are to take metal out of the warehouse.”  A financing transaction involves a simultaneous purchase of
metal for nearby delivery and a forward sale to take advantage
of the contango. Profit on the deals is influenced by financing
costs and expenses for storing metal.  Aluminum for 15-month delivery was at $2,590.50 a ton
today, compared with $2,475.25 a ton for cash metal, official
LME prices showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at  ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  