-- 
America Movil Fee Reduction May Set Precedent in Mexico Dispute

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-03-17T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/america-movil-fee-reduction-may-set-precedent-in-mexico-dispute.html
Mexican regulators said  America
Movil  SAB, the largest wireless carrier in the Americas, must
cut the fees it charges a land-line rival by more than half, a
decision that may set a precedent in a dispute over
interconnection fees.  America Movil should charge 39 centavos (3.2 cents) per
minute this year to connect calls coming from the network of
fixed-line carrier Alestra SA, the five-member board of  Mexico ’s
 Federal Telecommunications Commission  ruled unanimously
yesterday. That compared with the 95-centavo rate America Movil
has proposed and charges some of Alestra’s competitors.  “The resolution is relevant because it establishes a
precedent leading to the creation of public policies for the
application of interconnection fees that promote competition
between operators,” said NII Holdings Inc., a wireless provider
that operates as Nextel in Mexico, in an e-mailed statement
yesterday after the decision.  America Movil rivals such as NII Holdings,  Grupo Televisa
SA (TV)  and Grupo Iusacell SA have argued that the mobile-phone
carrier should reduce its fees.  America Movil hasn’t received legal notification of the
ruling and has no comment, said an official who can’t be named
under company policy. America Movil has the right to contest the
regulators’ decision.  Under Mexican law, carriers are free to strike their own
agreements about the charges they pay to connect calls to each
other’s networks. In the case of a conflict such as the one
between America Movil and Alestra, the telecommunications agency
can act as a mediator.  Rounding Off Charges  America Movil must round off the charges to the nearest
second, the telecommunications agency said yesterday, according
to an e-mailed statement. America Movil had proposed rounding
off charges to the nearest second after the first minute of
airtime.  America Movil offered in February to connect calls from
land-line and wireless rivals for 95 centavos a minute.
Connection fees charged to land-line carriers represent at least
5 percent of Mexico City-based America Movil’s Mexico sales,
Chief Financial Officer Carlos Garcia Moreno said during a press
conference yesterday before the regulatory ruling was announced.  Reducing the fees that mobile-phone carriers can charge to
connect calls could cause the wireless industry to have fewer
resources to invest in their networks, Garcia Moreno said.  Alestra is co-owned by Mexican industrial manufacturer Alfa
SAB and  AT&T Inc. (T) , the Dallas-based phone carrier that also has
a 9 percent stake in America Movil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  