-- 
Manchester United Manager Ferguson Won’t Appeal Five-Game Ban for Comments

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-03-17T17:48:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/manchester-united-manager-ferguson-won-t-appeal-five-game-ban-for-comments.html
Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  won’t appeal his five-game suspension for critical
comments he made in the media about referee Martin Atikinson,
the Football Association said on its website.  Ferguson was yesterday banned and fined 30,000 pounds
($48,000) for criticizing Atkinson in post-match interviews
following United’s 2-1 loss at Chelsea on March 1.  “It’s disappointing,” Ferguson said of the ban today on
United’s  website . “This is the only industry where you can’t
tell the truth. But it’s in the past.”  The F.A. accepted United’s request for the suspension to
begin immediately instead of March 22 as originally scheduled.  Ferguson will miss Premier League games against Bolton,
West Ham, Fulham and Everton, as well as the F.A. Cup semifinal
against  Manchester City . He’ll be able to return for the April
30 game at Arsenal, which trails United by three points at the
top of the league standings.  Ferguson was critical of Atkinson for failing to send off
Chelsea defender  David Luiz  for fouls on  Javier Hernandez  and
Wayne Rooney after he had already been booked. He then appeared
to question Atkinson’s integrity in a post-match interview by
saying he wanted a “fair referee, or a strong referee anyway,
and we didn’t get that.”  The comments brought a three-game ban for improper conduct
and an additional two-match suspension which stemmed from
Ferguson’s comments about referee Alan Wiley following a match
against Sunderland in 2009. The manager was banned four games at
that time, with two suspended until the end of this season and
only to be enforced if Ferguson was found guilty of a similar
charge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  