-- 
Manchester City, Liverpool Out of Europa League as Spartak, Twente Advance

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-03-18T10:00:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/manchester-city-out-of-europa-league-as-spartak-twente-benfica-move-on.html
Portuguese clubs Porto, Benfica and
Braga last night advanced to the quarterfinals of soccer’s
Europa League, as Liverpool and Manchester City were eliminated.  Porto beat CSKA Moscow 2-1 to complete a 3-1 win over two
matches, while Benfica progressed with a 1-1 draw with Paris
Saint-Germain. Braga moved on with a goalless match in Liverpool
and 10-man Manchester City won 1-0 over Dynamo Kiev but still
was knocked out by a 2-1 total.  “We’re disappointed,” City’s Vincent Kompany, whose team
couldn’t overcome the sending off of  Mario Balotelli , told ESPN.
“As soon as we went down to 10 men, it became a very, very
difficult game.”    PSV Eindhoven ,  FC Twente , Spartak Moscow and Villarreal
also advance to the final eight of  Europe ’s second-tier club
competition.  Porto, the 2003 champion and the favorite to lift this
season’s trophy with U.K. bookmakers, got goals from Hulk and
Fredy Guartin in eliminating CSKA.  “We didn’t play with the same intensity after going two up
but I think that is normal in football,” Porto defender Jorge
Fucile said on UEFA’s website. “We were still pretty much in
control and we knew CSKA would try to peg us back with long
balls but we kept possession, which is something we are really
good at.”  Benfica’s tie with PSG allowed it to advance 3-2 over two
games. Nicolas Gaitan scored in the 27th minute for Benfica
before Mathie Bodmer tied it for PSG eight minutes later.  Braga’s goalless draw at three-time champion Liverpool saw
it move into the quarterfinals following a 1-0 win at home in
the first match.    Manchester City ’s home win over Dynamo Kiev wasn’t enough
to overcome a 2-0 deficit from the first leg in Ukraine. City
played the final 54 minutes a man down after Balotelli was shown
a red card for a foot-first challenge into the body of Goran
Popov.  PSV made Rangers the third British team eliminated on the
day with a 1-0 win in Glasgow. Jeremain Lewis scored in the 13th
minute to send PSV through after an opening 0-0 tie in the
Netherlands.  Spartak Moscow routed Ajax 3-0 in  Russia  to complete a 4-0
victory over two games. Morais Welliton, Dmitri Kombarov and
Alex scored for Spartak.  FC Twente lost 2-0 at Zenit St. Petersburg but still
progressed thanks to its 3-0 home win in the first game. Roman
Shirokov and Alexander Kerzhakov scored in the first half for
Zenit.  Santi Cazorla and Giuseppe Rossi scored as Villarreal beat
Bayer Leverkusen 2-1 in  Spain  to complete a 5-3 victory.  The draw for the quarterfinal and semifinal rounds will be
held today in Nyon, Switzerland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 