-- 
Manufacturing Probably Bolstered U.S. Expansion in February

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-03-17T04:01:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/manufacturing-probably-bolstered-u-s-expansion-in-february.html
U.S. industrial production probably
rose in February for a third month in the last four, reinforcing
manufacturing’s role as a pillar of the expansion, economists
said before a report today.  Output at factories, mines and utilities climbed 0.6
percent after a 0.1 percent decrease in January, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. Other data may
show inflation excluding food and energy was contained,
factories in the Philadelphia region expanded and an index of
the economy’s outlook climbed for the eighth month.  Rising orders at companies like  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  show
factories are bolstering a recovery that the  Federal Reserve 
this week said was on a “firmer footing.” Central bankers also
said measures of underlying inflation remain “subdued,” even
as gains in volatile food and fuel costs threaten to leave
consumers with less to spend on other goods.  “Manufacturing activity looks pretty good,” said Stephen Gallagher, chief U.S. economist at  Societe Generale  SA in  New
York . “We’re seeing an abatement of deflationary pressures more
than any inflation pickup. The middle class is being squeezed by
the higher gasoline and food prices.”  The Fed’s industrial production report is due at 9:15 a.m.
in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from gains of 0.3
percent to 1.2 percent.  At 8:30 a.m., the Labor Department may report the  consumer
price index  rose 0.4 percent in February for the third
consecutive month, according to the Bloomberg survey median.
Economists’ estimates ranged from 0.2 percent to 0.6 percent.  Core Prices  So-called core prices, which exclude food and fuel, likely
rose 0.1 percent last month after a 0.2 percent gain in January,
economists projected. Compared with a year earlier, the core CPI
probably rose 1 percent for a second month.  The Conference Board’s leading economic indicators index,
which measures the outlook for the next three to six months,
jumped 0.9 percent in February after rising 0.1 percent,
according to the Bloomberg survey median. The report is due at
10 a.m.  One of the components of the leading index is initial
jobless claims, which will be released by the Labor Department
at 8:30 a.m. The report may show fewer Americans filed claims
for  unemployment benefits  last week, economists forecast.  Fed policy makers this week affirmed their plan to buy $600
billion of Treasuries through June while raising their
assessment of the economy. They said the labor market appears to
be “improving gradually” and that household spending and
business investment “continue to expand.”  Philadelphia Gauge  Another report today may show further strength in
manufacturing. The Philadelphia Fed’s general economic gauge
will show factory production the region grew for the sixth
straight month in March, economists said.  “We have seen orders build through the quarter,” Ron Slaymaker, vice president of  investor relations  for Dallas-based
Texas Instruments, said on a conference call with analysts March
8. “Based upon what we’re seeing through the first two months,
we would expect that orders will be up solidly compared to the
fourth quarter.”  Manufacturing shares have outperformed the broader market
over the past year. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Supercomposite
Machinery Index surged 37 percent in the 12 months through
yesterday, compared with a 8.4 percent gain in the  S&P 500 .  Companies are facing higher costs they may have trouble
passing on to consumers. Data yesterday showed producer prices
climbed 1.6 percent in February, the most since June 2009,
reflecting gains in fuel and the biggest jump in food costs
since 1974. The core PPI, which excludes food and fuel, rose 0.2
percent, less than half the 0.5 percent gain in January.  Broadest Measure  The consumer price index is the broadest of three price
measures issued by the Labor Department. The cost of goods
imported into the U.S. rose 1.4 percent last month, led by
commodities.  “The economic recovery is on a firmer footing,” Fed
officials said in a statement after their March 15 meeting.
While “the recent increases in the prices of energy and other
commodities are currently putting upward pressure on
inflation,” these effects are expected to be “transitory,”
they said.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  