-- 
Apple IPhone Software Loses Speed Test to Google’s Android

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-03-17T20:43:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/apple-iphone-loses-web-speed-test-to-google-s-android-blaze-software-says.html
  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone accessed the
Web more slowly through mobile applications than phones using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system, according to a report
today by a Canadian  software company .  The iPhone 4 was slower than Google’s Nexus S smartphone 84
percent of the time when accessing the Web through the browser
that operates applications like Twitter and Facebook, according
to Ottawa-based  Blaze Software Inc.  Blaze was unable to compare
the Apple Safari and Google Chrome browsers that users access
directly from the phone’s home screen.  The Android phone operated 52 percent faster on average
over a Wi-Fi network after more than 45,000 page loads from
1,000 websites, Blaze said. The difference will become more
obvious as users demand richer experiences and move to tablet
computers with larger screens, said Guy Podjarny, chief
technology officer of Blaze, which helps companies increase
website download times.  “It’s not that Apple doesn’t care about speed, but Google
is fanatical about it,” Podjarny said in an interview
yesterday.  Apple gained $4.63 to $334.64 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has risen 49 percent in
the past 12 months. Google increased $4.26 to $561.36 and is
little changed over 12 months.  Seconds to Load  Apple regards the tests as flawed because the browser that
customers access by tapping on the Safari icon on their iPhones
has performance enhancements not available when users access the
Web through applications, said  Natalie Kerris , a spokeswoman for
the Cupertino, California-based company.  “Despite this fundamental testing flaw, they still only
found an average of a second difference in loading Web pages,”
Kerris said.  Kerris declined to comment on whether Apple plans to update
its so-called embedded browser with the performance enhancements
found in the standard version of its mobile browser. A Google
spokeswoman, Gina Weakley, declined to comment.  Web pages took an average of 2.14 seconds to load on
Android compared with 3.25 seconds on iPhone, Blaze said. When
loading lighter websites -- those that are optimal for mobile
phones because the pages have fewer features, such as pictures,
to be downloaded -- the difference between the two systems was
less noticeable, according to the report.  That’s probably because there were fewer page elements,
making a download more efficient, Podjarny said.  ‘Retrofitting’ Speed  Google’s browser is probably faster because of the way it
organizes the download, Podjarny said. Google’s software finds
more efficient ways of getting different elements of a page,
such as pictures or text, he said.  The difference in download speeds may be the result of
corporate philosophies, Podjarny said.  Google , based in  Mountain View ,  California , has a team
devoted to making its browser and websites faster, employing
tools such as downloading things in parallel and accessing page
elements before they are needed, Podjarny said. The company’s
platform is also newer, allowing Google to design for speed from
the beginning, he said.  Apple has concentrated its resources on design, while
“retrofitting” speed into a product line developed before
download times were a priority, he said. The first iPhones
appeared in 2007.  “The appreciation of speed has grown in the last year or
two,” Podjarny said. “Before, people weren’t really expecting
a fast browser on a mobile device. Google has the advantage of
coming in a little later and seeing what matters.”  Disputed Methods  Android became the world’s best-selling smartphone
operating system in the fourth quarter, outselling the iPhone
two-to-one, according to Canalys, a U.K.-based research company.  Meanwhile, Apple more than doubled the potential customer
base of its latest smartphone, the iPhone 4, in the U.S. this
year, offering the device to customers using  Verizon Wireless ,
the largest mobile carrier.  Blaze said it ran its tests on websites of the Fortune 1000
companies. The pages were loaded multiple times on different
days, according to the report.  Some analysts sided with Apple in disputing the study’s
results because Blaze accessed websites through its speed-
measurement software. That software may have negated some of the
improvements that Apple has made to its Safari browser, said  Michael Gartenberg , an analyst at  Stamford , Connecticut-based
research firm Gartner Inc. Gartenberg doesn’t own Google or
Apple shares.  Web-Page Variables  In a  blog posting , Blaze said it stands by its findings.
Blaze also added that, for now, it has no evidence that the
optimizations that Apple is excluding from its embedded browser
make a big impact to Web speeds.  Ben Bajarin, a director at  Creative Strategies Inc. , a
Campbell, California-based consulting company, said his firm
hasn’t been able to determine whether Apple or Google’s mobile
browser is faster after doing tests for months. There are
several reasons that make testing difficult and the operating
systems take turns outperforming each other, he said.  The number of variables involved in loading a single page
“is astonishing,” the Blaze authors said in their report. “We
know there’s no such thing as a perfect Web page load
measurement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  