-- 
Apple May Face Shortages for IPad Components After Quake, IHS ISuppli Says

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-03-17T22:28:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/apple-may-face-shortages-for-ipad-2-after-quake-isuppli-says.html
  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  may face logistical
problems and supply shortages for components of its iPad 2
tablet after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami in  Japan ,
according to IHS iSuppli.  Five parts for the device are made in Japan and could be
affected by the disaster, the research firm said today in an e-
mailed statement. They include Nand flash-memory chips from  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ; dynamic random-access memory from  Elpida Memory
Inc. (6665) ; an electronic compass from AKM Semiconductor Inc.; the
touch-screen overlay glass, probably from Asahi Glass Co.; and
the system battery from Apple Japan Inc.  Apple, the world’s most valuable technology company, has
been grappling with supply shortages for the iPad 2 since it
went on sale in the U.S. on March 11. Stores have sold out and
the wait time for orders through Apple’s  website  is as long as
five weeks, compared with less than a week when it went on sale.  “These issues may come at a time when Apple is rushing to
ramp up iPad 2 production to meet stronger-than-expected demand
for the device,” IHS ISuppli said. The researcher’s assessment
is based on its own analysis of the iPad 2’s parts.  Higher prices for components could pull back Apple’s profit
margins in the second half of 2011,  Gene Munster , an analyst at
Piper Jaffray Cos., said today in a research note. Apple’s
policy of prepaying for key parts in exchange for guaranteed
supply and pricing will help counter the supply issues, he said.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , got about 6 percent
of its sales from Japan last year. One Apple retail store in
Sendai has been closed. Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple,
declined to comment.  Apple rose $4.63, or 1.4 percent, to $334.64 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading today. The shares have gained 3.7 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  