-- 
March Madness Gambling Brings Out Warnings From NCAA to Tournament Players

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-03-17T14:01:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/march-madness-gambling-brings-out-warnings-from-ncaa-to-tournament-players.html
It’s college basketball’s high
season, which means bracket pools and betting along with the
buzzer beaters. For the  National Collegiate Athletic
Association , there’s no better time to warn about the dangers of
gambling.  About $12 billion is projected by oddsmakers to be wagered
over the next three weeks on the NCAA men’s basketball
tournament, which tips off its full schedule today with 16
games.  “This is really the one time of year where everyone is
talking about gambling,” Rachel Newman Baker, the NCAA’s
director of rules on agents, gambling and amateurism, said in a
telephone interview. “As much as we’ve tried to educate our
membership, it’s just something that people don’t talk about on
a day-to-day basis. This actually gives us an opportunity to
provide that education and talk about the issues and concerns.”    West Virginia University  plays Clemson University in
today’s first game, which starts at 12:15 p.m. local time in
Tampa,  Florida . Every game in the tournament, which is nicknamed
“March Madness” on the  NCAA website , will be televised live
this year by CBS Corp. and Turner Broadcasting’s TBS, TNT and
truTV.  “Not only is there more overall action than the Super
Bowl, but the game days are like Woodstock for action junkies,”
RJ Bell, president of Las Vegas-based handicapping information
website  Pregame.com , said. “There are games from morning to
night and the next day it all starts over again.”  Team Meetings  While fans pore over their picks during the first two
rounds of the tournament, Baker and other NCAA officials will
visit with  Las Vegas  oddsmakers and sports book operators,
gathering information on the volume of wagering and movement of
betting lines. They’ll then travel to regional sites to meet
with players, coaches, trainers, student managers and other team
personnel about sports betting.  NCAA rules prohibiting gambling on sports events extend to
players, administrators and all members of a school’s athletic
department.  “It’s a good opportunity to hit that whole traveling party
at once,” Baker said. “Mostly our focus is on the sharing of
information because a lot of time that gets missed. At this
point in the game, historically it’s not that a point-shaving
incident happens right at the tournament.”  Betting Scandals  College basketball’s biggest betting scandals have involved
so-called point shaving, where players alter the victory margin
against the gambling line set by bookmakers.  One involved 35 players from schools including the  University of Kentucky  and Long Island University who were
accused of fixing 86 games between 1947 and 1951. Those cases
involved illegal bookies.  The NCAA will use former players affected by gambling and
agents from the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  in its
presentations to teams during the tournament.  The officials will warn players about seemingly innocuous
scenarios, with Baker giving the example of a student manager
who receives  text messages  from a friend inquiring about
injuries in hopes of gaining insight for bets. At fan events
during the men’s and women’s Final Four, the NCAA will have
interactive gambling information booths as part of a program
called, “Don’t Bet on It.”  Office Pools  While office pools have become synonymous with the
tournament -- even U.S. President  Barack Obama  fills out a
bracket of his projected winners -- Baker said those aren’t a
significant concern for the NCAA.  “We’re really focused on a much bigger fish than that,”
Baker said. “We’re aware of bracket pools that can get in the
tens of thousands if not hundreds of thousands of dollars. When
you get in that kind of money, you really get concerned about
the student-athletes’ potentially being approached to affect the
outcome of a game, as well as the game itself.”  Of the estimated $12 billion that will be wagered on the
NCAA tournament, about $3 billion is from office pools and
approximately $100 million will be bet legally at  Nevada ’s 183
sports books, according to Pregame’s Bell.  “We’ll probably do as much money as we do on  Super Bowl 
Sunday and the ticket count is way up from Thursday to Sunday
because people bet smaller, but just about every game,” Jimmy Vaccaro, director of sports operations at  Lucky’s  Race and
Sports Book in Las Vegas, said in a phone interview.  Ohio State Favored  Ohio State enters the men’s tournament as the favorite
among oddsmakers, with a 14.3 percent chance of winning its
first championship in 51 years.    Duke University  has a 13 percent chance of successfully
defending its title, followed by the University of  Kansas  at
12.8 percent and  University of Pittsburgh  at 8.7 percent,
according to Bell, who uses tournament odds to figure
percentages.  Obama picked Kansas to defeat Ohio State for the title.  Ohio State, Duke, Kansas and Pittsburgh are the No. 1 seeds
in the four geographic regions. The best championship odds
outside the four top teams are No. 2 seeds San Diego State (4.2
percent) and  North Carolina  (4 percent), while  Texas , which is
seeded fourth in the West region, is at 3.4 percent.  “Tighten them up, the ride is going to be wild,” CBS
college basketball analyst Clark Kellogg said. “There’s no
clear-cut favorite. There are a number of teams that are
starting to come on and there are some teams outside the power
conferences that have talent and experience.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  