-- 
Martin Lipton Criticizes ISS Over Its Advice on Hewlett-Packard Directors

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-03-17T14:36:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/martin-lipton-criticizes-iss-over-its-advice-on-hewlett-packard.html
  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  didn’t run
afoul of corporate governance rules when it appointed directors
who are acquainted with its chief executive officer and board
chairman, attorney Martin Lipton said in a memo.  Lipton, a founding partner of  Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen &
Katz  in  New York  who helped draft New York Stock Exchange
governance rules, faulted Institutional Shareholder Services
Inc., an adviser to investors on corporate governance matters,
for its criticism of Hewlett-Packard. The company’s directors
shouldn’t have let CEO  Leo Apotheker  play a direct role in
selecting the directors, ISS said earlier this month.  “Having served as a member of the NYSE committee that
created the NYSE’s post-Enron corporate governance rules, I have
watched with dismay as those rules have been misunderstood,
misapplied and polluted by one-size-fits-all ‘best practices’
invented by proxy advisory services and other governance
activists,” Lipton said in the memo, titled “Corporate
Governance Adrift.”  ISS counseled clients in a March 2 report to vote against
three Hewlett-Packard directors at the company’s March 23
shareholder meeting for their role in letting Apotheker help
select new board members in January. Apotheker’s participation
in the appointment of new directors “raises red flags,” ISS
said in its report.  The concern is that directors who have ties to the CEO may
be less inclined to exert independence and hold management
accountable, corporate governance experts have said.  ISS Recommendations  ISS, a unit of  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) , recommended that shareholders
vote against three sitting directors -- Lawrence Babbio, Sari Baldauf and G. Kennedy Thompson -- who are up for re-election at
the annual meeting, because they shouldn’t have permitted
Apotheker to play a role in the nomination.  Gary Hewitt, a spokesman for ISS, said in an interview that
the organization examines companies on a case-by-case basis and
doesn’t issue blanket proclamations.  “We’re always being asked to take into account a company’s
individual facts and circumstances. We did in the HP case,” he
said.  Lipton said in his memo that friends of a CEO can serve as
independent directors, and that there is no basis for second-
guessing a board’s determination that a friend of a company’s
CEO, or of another director, can act independently.  “Friends can and should be independent directors,” Lipton
said. “As long as a majority of the board is independent, the
other members can be men and women who are not independent and
who bring special skills, experience, or other qualities that
are important to the board’s understanding and monitoring of the
corporation’s business and risks.”  New Board Members  Hewlett-Packard in January replaced four directors with
five new board members, several of whom had business ties to
Apotheker and Hewlett-Packard Chairman  Ray Lane . The directors
who joined the board were Shumeet Banerji, CEO of Booz & Co.;  Patricia Russo , former CEO of Alcatel-Lucent SA; Dominique Senequier, CEO of AXA  Private Equity ;  Meg Whitman , former CEO of
EBay Inc.; and Gary Reiner, former chief information officer of
General Electric Co.  “The effective functioning of the board is often impaired,
if everyone is a stranger,” Lipton said. NYSE rules permit CEOs
to attend board committee meetings, make recommendations to a
committee or request discussion of matters by the full board,
Lipton said.  Clients of proxy advisers “owe a duty not to slavishly
follow advice from such services,” Lipton said.  “ISS’s clients are intelligent investors and do not
slavishly follow anyone,” Hewitt added in an e-mailed
statement.  Mylene Mangalindan, a spokeswoman for  Palo Alto ,
California-based Hewlett-Packard, declined to comment.  Hewlett-Packard rose $1.40, or 3.5 percent, to $41.54 at
10:31 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange trading. It had declined
4.7 percent this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  