-- 
Artists to Boycott Abu Dhabi’s Guggenheim Over Labor Rights

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-03-17T16:33:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/artists-to-boycott-abu-dhabi-s-guggenheim-museum-over-laborers-rights.html
Artists and curators from around
the world have signed a petition to boycott the Abu Dhabi-based
Guggenheim Museum until the government of the  United Arab
Emirates  and the Guggenheim Foundation can ensure the protection
of laborers at the construction site.  The  online petition , signed by more than 135 people, said
they will refuse all cooperation with the Tourism Development &
Investment Co. and the  Guggenheim Foundation  until they disclose
working conditions at the site and guarantee that laborers will
receive recruitment fees.  “This leading group of artists is making clear that they
will not showcase their work in a museum built by abused
workers, and that the steps taken to date by Guggenheim and TDIC
are inadequate,” Sarah Leah Whitson, Middle East director at
New York-based  Human Rights Watch , said in an e-mailed statement
today. “If the Guggenheim and TDIC fail to address the artists’
concerns, the museum may become better known for exhibiting
labor violations than art.”  Laborers in the U.A.E., most of whom come from the  Indian
subcontinent , have complained of working conditions that force
them to endure long hours in scorching summer temperatures,
passport confiscation by employers and withheld wages. In 2009,
the government imposed a law forcing companies to give their
workers a midday break for a three-month period in summer.  Workers’ Rights  The Tourism Development & Investment Co., the government
company that is developing the island, said today that the Human
Rights Watch statement pre-dates “measures already taken to
further safeguard the workers’ rights,” citing an employment
policy implemented in 2009.  TDIC “has always welcomed dialogue regarding its practices
with the artists and those who are also committed to
constructive dialogue about protecting workers’ rights, and we
will continue to have this policy as work progresses on
Saadiyat,” it said in an e-mail today.  The Guggenheim Foundation said today that while it shares
the concerns of these artists, their accusations are
“misinformed” and workers’ rights remain a “critical
priority,” according to an e-mailed statement.  The U.A.E. Labor Ministry said in June 2009 that it would
give employers five years to improve the living conditions of
migrant foreign workers in the sheikhdom. The regulations
stipulate that labor camps should not house more than 10 workers
per room, provide around-the-clock medical facilities and locate
toilets at least 100 feet (30 meters) from bedrooms and
kitchens.  The  Abu Dhabi  Guggenheim, designed by  Frank Gehry , is due
to open in 2013 on  Saadiyat Island , or Island of Happiness, as
part of the emirate’s push to diversify its economy away from
oil revenue. The island will house $27 billion-worth of
developments including a branch of the  Louvre Museum , the Zayed
National Museum, and a New York University campus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  barden@bloomberg.net . 