-- 
Harvard in Realm of President Faust Makes A.J. Example of Service

-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-17T16:12:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/harvard-in-realm-of-faust-makes-a-j-example-of-public-service.html
Aaron J. Garcia, a 2009 graduate of
Harvard College, passed up offers from consulting and marketing
companies paying $20,000 more than he gets teaching chemistry
and physics in Brownsville,  Texas  on the Mexican border.  The 24-year-old Garcia, who prefers to be called A.J., says
Harvard University President Drew Faust had a lot to do with his
decision to work with disadvantaged students. She champions
public service over private gain in her speeches, which affected
him when he was defraying some of the cost of his tuition as an
assistant in her office in  Massachusetts Hall .  “She said that it was the responsibility of educated
people and scholars to shape the world in meaningful ways, and
this is what’s most meaningful to me,” said Garcia, who joined
 Teach for America , a New York-based nonprofit group that
recruits the brightest college graduates for low-income
communities.  Faust, 63, tells students they didn’t come to Harvard just
to get rich. She announced plans this month to return the
Reserve Officers’ Training Corps to campus after more than 40
years, invoking her gratitude to those who serve in the
military. Last year, she appointed Nitin Nohria, a leadership
specialist who urges management students to take an ethics oath,
as dean of  Harvard Business School  and Martha Minow, an expert
in human rights and equality, to lead  Harvard Law School .  From the eight U.S. presidents among its alumni to the
professors who  invented the iron lung  and performed the first
kidney transplant, Harvard has a rich tradition of serving
society that Faust wants to restore, said David Gergen, director
of the Kennedy School of Government Center for Public
Leadership.  Too Much Materialism  “She came in with a view that too many Harvard students
were aspiring to financial-services careers that emphasized
materialism,” Gergen said in a telephone interview. “She
didn’t villainize Wall Street, but she wanted to get more
balance in what the student body was doing, and she’s encouraged
more graduates to give back through public service.”  About 18 percent of the class of 2010 applied to Teach for
America and 14 percent of graduates with jobs were headed into
education. In 2007, the year she took over, 6.1 percent of
seniors applied to the teacher training program.  To be sure, the focus on public service coincided with a  Wall Street  panic caused by speculative bubbles in housing and
leveraged lending that plunged the economy into the worst
recession in 80 years. Harvard graduates bound for financial
services and consulting fell to 20 percent in 2009, from 47
percent in 2007, according to a survey of graduating seniors by
the  Harvard Crimson , the student newspaper.  National Trend  Similar trends were taking effect across the U.S., as the
number of college seniors planning to go into nonprofit or
teaching careers after graduation rose to 22 percent in 2010,
from 14 percent in 2008, according to a survey by the  National
Association of Colleges and Employers  in Bethlehem,
Pennsylvania. The share planning to work in the private sector
fell to 36 percent from 45 percent.  Faust is putting her stamp on the university by changing
the leadership of the richest endowment in education and halting
the biggest construction project in Harvard’s history, the $1.2
billion science center that her predecessor,  Lawrence Summers ,
envisaged as the cornerstone of an expansion in the neighboring  Boston  community of Allston.  Budget Cuts  To bring stability to the budget after the $26.9 billion
endowment lost almost a third of its value in 2009, she cut
funding for junior-varsity hockey, basketball and baseball
teams, reduced shuttle-bus schedules and stopped hiring of exam
proctors. A  budget deficit  at Harvard’s Faculty of Arts and
Sciences, its biggest unit, was reduced to $35 million from $220
million in April 2009, and the endowment rose 11 percent to
$27.4 billion in the year ended June 30.  Faust restructured the governing board, often called the
 Corporation , in December. The oldest incorporated body in the
country and Harvard’s highest authority, the board was
criticized by faculty for its secrecy. In the first  substantive
change  in the institution’s government in 360 years, the
corporation will be expanded to 13 members from seven, and
Harvard may name three new members at the end of this academic
year, and three more the following year.  The first woman to be president of Harvard, Faust is a
career academic who emerged from relative obscurity to lead
Harvard, compared with Summers, who served as U.S. Treasury
Secretary under President  Bill Clinton  and later was President
Barack Obama’s economic adviser.  ‘Damage Control’  “She isn’t tied to Harvard’s traditions and wants to push
in some new directions, which I still think she will when we
come out of this,” said  Lizabeth Cohen , a professor of American
studies at Harvard and Faust’s friend for 30 years. “It would
be a tragedy if her whole presidency was damage control.”  While she has courted alumni as the college rolls toward a
major fund-raising campaign, she hasn’t improved academic rigor
or increased political diversity among faculty, said  Harvey
Mansfield , a professor of government in the Faculty of Arts and
Sciences.  “There’s a lot at Harvard to be done and she’s not doing
any of it,” Mansfield said. “We need to make Harvard more
demanding. It’s academically too easy right now. Students are
not worked hard enough.”  Broad Spectrum  Faust has worked to ensure that the broadest possible
spectrum of views is represented at Harvard, and that students
are prepared to examine those diverse viewpoints with the best
intellectual training, the university said in an e-mail. Harvard
has increased access to freshman advising and implemented a
curriculum, called General Education, aimed at connecting
classroom experience to the world beyond, the statement said.  “Without question, our students are driven in their out of
class pursuits, just as they are driven in their coursework,”
according to the statement.  Faust has also reached out to
conservatives to speak at Harvard, including Supreme Court Chief
Justice  John Roberts  and former U.S. Secretary of State  Condoleezza Rice , the statement said.  Faust said her efforts resonate beyond the university.  “The power of the president of Harvard is complex,” Faust
said, sitting on a cream-colored couch that contrasts with the
crimson walls of her office in Massachusetts Hall. “It’s a job
that gives you a voice and a platform and an occasion to
accomplish a great deal.”  Faust has been politically active since childhood. Born in  New York City  in 1947, she was raised in Clarke County, in  Virginia ’s Shenandoah Valley, where Democratic Senator  Harry
Byrd  Sr. said he’d rather close public schools than integrate
them. At age 9, she wrote U.S. President  Dwight D. Eisenhower  a
letter to protest segregation. She skipped freshman midterm
exams at  Bryn Mawr College  in  Pennsylvania  to make a 16-hour
drive to Selma,  Alabama , and join the protest marches there in
1965.  Early Work  In 2001, Faust, by then a prize-winning Civil War
historian, joined Harvard to run its  Radcliffe Institute of
Advanced Study . Six years later, she became president of the
university.  “I don’t think it was a totally ‘jump for joy’
situation,” recalled her friend Christine Ramsey, whom Faust
visited soon after her appointment. “There was almost a sober
awareness that her life was about to change.”  In her inaugural address, Faust stressed a relationship to
the public, pledging an “unwavering belief in the purposes and
potential of this university and in all it can do to shape how
the world will look another half-century from now.”  Military service is one way for students to contribute,
Faust said. Harvard announced March 4 it would bring back a
naval ROTC program, after Congress voted in December to rescind
the military’s  “don’t ask, don’t tell”  policy that prohibited
open homosexuality among service members. Harvard ended its
relationship with the officer-training program in 1969 after
protests by students against the  Vietnam War .  Student ‘Sacrifices’  “‘Serve’ is the word you use when you talk about the
military,” Faust said. “These students make sacrifices while
they’re here, because it’s a challenging program, and they know
in this day and age that they’re likely to be sent to war zones.
We’re all dependent on them, and I have tremendous admiration
for them.”  Faust, whose father, grandfather and brother served in the
military, said she had her sights set on ROTC’s return from the
time she became president. She lifted the image of military
service at Harvard for the first time in years, said retired
U.S. Navy Captain Paul E. Mawn, chairman of Advocates for
Harvard ROTC.  Value of Service  “She has an understanding and recognition of the value of
service,” said Mawn, a 1963 graduate of  Harvard College . “It’s
a form of public service that goes beyond yourself.”  Stressing public service doesn’t mean being anti-business,
Faust said.  “I believe in engagement of the public and private
sector,” Faust said. “Business is about generating prosperity,
and we have a number of students who are developing investment
projects, devices or other programs that may ultimately serve
society. Public service is a big tent and I don’t mean to leave
anyone out of it.”  Undergraduates now discuss their options for public-service
careers more openly, said Jonathan Warsh, student director of
the  Harvard Square Homeless Shelter .  “One night I walked into my dining hall at Lowell House and
they’re organizing a volunteer week. Something like that
wouldn’t have happened even a couple years ago,” Warsh said.  Garcia has no regrets about taking less money to teach at
 IDEA Frontier College Preparatory  charter school in Brownsville,
50 miles south of his hometown, Raymondville, Texas, he said.  Two weeks ago, a 15-year-old told him she was interested in
a career in chemistry, perhaps as a pharmacist. Garcia was
surprised because the girl, whose parents and siblings have been
jailed on drug charges, had said earlier she wanted to drop out
of high school.  “She became invested in herself as a result of being in my
classroom,” Garcia said. “I’m convinced that my legacy and
imprint will be felt for many, many years among the students and
in the community. I can’t ask for anything more than that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at   Jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 