-- 
Asian Stocks Drop on Radiation Crisis at Japan Reactor; G-7 to Meet on Yen

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   A k i k o   I k e d a
-- 
2011-03-17T11:25:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/asian-stocks-drop-on-worsening-radiation-crisis-at-japan-nuclear-reactor.html
Asian stocks fell, leading a
regional benchmark index lower for the third time this week, as
workers battled to prevent a meltdown at a nuclear plant in  Japan . Markets pared losses as the Group of Seven nations’
finance chiefs agreed to meet tomorrow to discuss Japan.    Tokyo  Electric Power Co. slumped 13 percent after a U.S.
official said all water had drained from a spent-fuel pool at
the company’s stricken nuclear plant, raising the risk from
radiation. Honda Motor Co., Japan’s second-largest carmaker by
sales, fell 1.1 percent and Sony Corp., an electronics maker,
sank 0.5 percent in Tokyo after the yen’s earlier advance
against the dollar.  Paladin Energy Ltd. (PDN)  plunged 9.5 percent in
Sydney, pacing declines among uranium producers.  “Far more investors are looking to protect their assets by
reducing risk, instead of looking to make profits,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $450 million in Tokyo at
Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. “We don’t know what will
happen to the nuclear plants and the government’s pronouncements
are losing credibility.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.1 percent to 128.82 as
of 8:23 p.m. in Tokyo, headed for its biggest weekly drop since
the height of the European debt crisis last May. About two
stocks on the gauge declined for each that rose, while five of
the 10 industry groups retreated.  Tokyo Fluctuates  The index yesterday rose 3.2 percent on speculation
selloffs since Japan’s worst earthquake on March 11 were
excessive. The index on March 15 dropped more than 10 percent
from its Jan. 19 peak, a level some investors consider a
correction.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average closed down 1.4 percent
today. The gauge fell as much as 5 percent before trimming
losses after Tokyo Electric said more than 300 workers planned
to connect a power line to help re-start damaged cooling systems
today at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi power station, north of Tokyo.  The broader Topix index pared its earlier 4.3 percent loss
to 0.8 percent. It briefly swung to a 0.5 percent gain in the
afternoon. The yen also retreated from a post-World-War II high,
easing pressure on Japanese exporters.  “We are hoping that the tragedy will be averted now that
Japan is sending more workers to the crippled nuclear power
station,” said Hong Kong-based Michiya Tomita, who helps
oversee about $65 billion for Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co.
“Technically, that should help the market recover, but
sentiment will remain weak as investors assess the economic
impact of the disaster.”    Australia ,  South Korea   The G-7 finance chiefs will hold talks on financial markets
and Japan’s economy tomorrow, Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told reporters today in Tokyo. The meeting raised
the prospect of coordinated global action to prevent the
disaster from crippling the world’s third-largest economy.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index and South Korea’s Kospi Index
were both little changed.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index dropped
1.8 percent, with Tencent Holdings Ltd. slipping 11 percent
after saying that slower growth is “certain.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.6 percent
today. The gauge fell 2 percent yesterday in  New York  to the
lowest level since December amid concern Japan’s nuclear crisis
will worsen.  Sony sank 0.5 percent to 2,515 yen in Tokyo. Toyota Motor
Corp. and Honda tumbled after the strengthening yen threatened
to crimp export earnings. Toyota lost 2.2 percent to 3,270 yen
and Honda fell 1.1 percent to 3,055 yen.  Yen Moves  The Japanese currency strengthened to 76.36 yen per dollar
earlier today, passing a previous post-World War II high of
79.75 reached in April 1995. It later pared gains on speculation
policy makers will intervene in markets to aid exporters.  “There’s a lot of panic selling and there are still a lot
of unknowns,” said Tey Tze Ming, a market strategist at Saxo
Capital Markets Pte in  Singapore . “The nuclear crisis
developing in Japan is first and foremost on everyone’s mind. If
things really go sour there, it could have a big impact on world
growth.”  U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Chairman Gregory Jaczko
told a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee yesterday that all
cooling water at one of the reactors had drained from the spent-
fuel pool and “radiation levels are extremely high, which could
possibly impact the ability to take corrective measures.”  The  Associated Press  said Japanese officials denied all the
water had drained and said the reactor, known as Unit 4, was
stable.  The  United Nations ’ nuclear agency plans an emergency
meeting to discuss the crisis at Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
power plant, 135 miles north of Tokyo, as hundreds of cars
streamed south of areas hit by last week’s earthquake and
tsunami.  ‘Nasty Headlines’  “The Japanese reactor story is still generating nasty
headlines,” said  Michael Shaoul , chairman of Marketfield Asset
Management, which oversees $1 billion in New York.    Tokyo Electric  Power, which runs the nuclear plant, fell 13
percent to 798 yen, a level not seen since 1982.  Japanese stocks surged yesterday, with the Nikkei 225
rising 5.7 percent. The average had plunged 16 percent since
March 11, the biggest two-day slump since the 1987 crash.  Paladin Energy, a producer of uranium in  Africa , tumbled
9.5 percent to A$3.35 in Sydney today, even as the company said
the nuclear-power industry in Japan and the rest of the world
will “learn, improve and move on” after the crisis.  Uranium prices will return to levels before the disaster,
John Borshoff, chief executive officer of the Perth-based
company, said on a conference call with analysts and reporters
today. Rival  Energy Resources of Australia Ltd. (ERA)  dropped 6.2
percent to A$7.32.  In Hong Kong, Tencent Holdings,  China ’s biggest Internet
company, fell 11 percent to HK$193.20 after Martin Lau, its
president, said the company is “certain” to post slower growth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at   sraja4@bloomberg.net ;
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 