-- 
Asian Currencies Retreat, Led by Won, on Escalating Japan Radiation Risks

-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-03-17T03:51:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/asian-currencies-retreat-led-by-won-on-escalating-japan-radiation-risks.html
Asian currencies slipped, led by
the South Korean won and the Philippine peso, on concern the
fallout from  Japan ’s nuclear crisis will hobble the global
economic recovery.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of shares dropped for the third
time this week after the head of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission said yesterday that the Fukushima Dai-Ichi power
plant is releasing “extremely high” levels of radiation that
could be life-threatening. Foreign governments began evacuating
citizens from  Tokyo .  “The currency market is a bit on edge with the knock-on
effects from the stock sell-off,” said Mohd Zaki Talib, a
foreign-exchange trader at RHB Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur .
“There is concern about radiation leakage, but we think the
risk won’t remain for long.”  The won slumped 0.6 percent to 1,137.45 per dollar as of
10:10 a.m. in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The peso dropped 0.5 percent to 43.965, according to Tullett
Prebon Plc. Malaysia’s ringgit depreciated 0.2 percent to
3.0640.  Military helicopters are dumping water on a pool storing
spent fuel at the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi power station No.
3 reactor to cool uranium and plutonium rods that two
international nuclear regulators said were exposed and could be
spewing radiation.  Growth Impact  The won dropped the most since Dec. 30 and the Kospi
share index fell as foreign investors sold more South Korean
equities than they bought for a third day.  “The situation in Japan is getting worse,” said  Thomas Harr , Singapore-based head of Asian foreign-exchange
strategy at Standard Chartered Plc. “The developments in Japan
are very negative for emerging  Asia , especially for Northeast
Asia due to the growth impact and economic impact.”  The peso touched 44.01, the weakest level since Feb. 2, on
concern political tensions in the Middle East will spur an
exodus of Filipino workers, hurting remittances. Security forces
clashed with anti-government protesters in Bahrain yesterday and
Libya’s air force bombed rebels. The Gulf region accounts for
about 30 percent of overseas remittances, central bank Governor
Amando Tetangco said this month.  “The market is worried about the impact of the Middle East
tension on remittances,” said Marcelo Ayes, a Manila-based
senior vice president at Rizal Commercial Banking Corp. “Things
are getting worse and may affect demand for jobs.”  Funds Repatriation    Thailand ’s baht rose for a second day as companies and
investors step up repatriation of funds following the radiation
leak in Japan, according to Kozo Hasegawa, a foreign-exchange
trader at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. The currency gained 0.4
percent to 30.33 per dollar.  “The baht probably got a boost from some repatriation
money as nuclear concerns are growing,” said Kozo Hasegawa, a
Bangkok-based foreign-exchange trader at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking
Corp.  Elsewhere, Taiwan’s dollar and Indonesia’s rupiah both
declined 0.2 percent to NT$29.605 and 8,794 respectively against
the U.S. currency.  China ’s yuan was steady at 6.5706.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Andrea Wong  in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in  Singapore  at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  