-- 
Astellas, Vivendi, Washington Post: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-03-17T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/astellas-vivendi-washington-post-intellectual-property.html
  Astellas Pharma Inc. (4503)  said its OSI
Pharmaceuticals subsidiary, along with  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s
Genentech and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , will terminate a case against  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  relating to patents for the
cancer drug Tarceva. Settlement terms weren’t disclosed.  OSI sued Teva in federal court in  Delaware  in March 2009,
accusing the Israeli generic-drug maker of infringing patents
6,900,221, 7,087,613 and 5,747,498.  Tarceva is used to treat small-cell  lung cancer . The
litigation was triggered when  Petah Tikva , Israel-based Teva
applied to produce a generic form of the drug.  The order dismissing Teva as a defendant was filed March
15, according to court filings.  The case is OSA Pharmaceuticals v. Mylan Pharmaceuticals,
1:09-cv-00185-SLR, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Zogenix Migraine Treatment Method Gets Patent Term Extension    Zogenix Inc. (ZGNX) , a San Diego-based pharmaceutical maker, said
it received an eight-year extension on a patent covering a
method of injecting its Sumavel migraine headache treatment.  The patent, 7,776,007, was issued in August 2010, according
to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  The DosePro needle-free delivery system will be protected
by the patent through 2025, Zogenix said in a statement
yesterday. The product was first introduced in the U.S. in
January 2010.  The patent covers the procedures for a patient to self-
administer the drug using the Zogenix device.  Germany  and the
U.K. approved the Sumavel DosePro in January.  Zogenix had its initial public offering in November.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Vivendi’s Levy Says  China  Not Doing Enough on IP Enforcement  China’s IP enforcement efforts are insufficient,  Vivendi SA (VIV) 
Chief Executive Officer Jean-Bernard Levy said at an Abu Dhabi
media conference. He said China isn’t making much progress
“putting in place a true  intellectual property  rights policy.”  “I don’t believe they have considered it a priority,”
Levy said. Paris-based Vivendi’s sales in China are comparable
with “the kind of revenue you’d find in a small Eastern
European country,” he said.  Pi Day YouTube Posting Draws DMCA Copyright ‘Takedown’ Notice  A musical composition in honor of  Pi Day,  the March 14
celebration of the constant used to determine the circumference
of a circle and perform other calculations, drew a copyright
challenge, according to Oregon Music News.  After Michael Blake of Portland, Oregon, composed a short
piece based on the value of pi (3.14159265…) and posted it on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube video-sharing site, the composer of a
symphony based on the constant sent YouTube an infringement
“takedown” notice under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act,
Oregon Music News  reported .  Lars Erickson, who composed his pi-based symphony in 1990,
said he was just trying to protect his rights and that he’s
spent “a considerable amount of time” in composing his
symphony, according to Oregon Music News.  The composer said he had spoken to Blake and had hoped they
could “work this out” and that he wasn’t interested in
“suppressing the melody of pi or copyrighting the number,”
Oregon Music News said.  Venter Gets Cease-and-Desist Letter Over Joyce Quote in DNA  J. Craig Venter, founder of Alameda,  California ’s  Celera
Corp. (CRA)  and one of the two scientists involved in mapping the
human genome, ran afoul of the estate of James Joyce after
inserting a quote from the author in a strand of DNA, Forbes
 reported .  Venter received a cease-and-desist letter from the estate
after he inserted a line from Joyce’s “A Portrait of the Artist
as a Young Man” into the DNA of a synthetic life form he
created, according to Forbes.  At the South by Southwest convention in Austin,  Texas , this
week, Venter said that he had thought the phrase fell under
copyright law’s “fair use” provision, according to Forbes.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Chrysler Sues T-Shirt Seller Over ‘Imported From  Detroit ’ Mark  Chrysler Group LLC accused a Detroit clothing company of
trademark infringement for emblazoning T-shirts with the
carmaker’s “Imported From Detroit” slogan.  Chrysler filed a complaint March 15 in Detroit federal
court against Moda Group LLC, which sells clothing and souvenirs
through retail outlets and online.  The carmaker said it began using “Imported from Detroit”
in its ads to let consumers know “they could obtain the luxury
the associate with foreign imports from a manufacturer based in
the U.S.” Chrysler said it filed an application Nov. 23 with
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to register the phrase as a
trademark.  The company ran an ad during this year’s  Super Bowl  to
introduce the phrase to the public. At the end of the spot --
which features Detroit rapper Eminem announcing “This is the
Motor City. And this is what we do” -- the screen fades to
black and the Chrysler logo and the words “Imported from
Detroit” appear.  Chrysler said it spent “millions of dollars” to create
and release the ad, which generated an immediate 1,619 percent
increase in traffic to the Chrysler 200 model Web page on Super
Bowl Sunday, Feb. 6. The automaker also claimed that after this
commercial aired for the first time, “the second most searched
term” on Google was “Chrysler 200.”  Anticipating the popularity of the ad, Chrysler said it
applied to register the mark for use on clothing Jan. 18 and
began shipping its own “imported from Detroit” shirts Feb. 11.  The automaker said Moda began selling shirts bearing the
slogan without authorization. Chrysler sent Moda a cease-and-
desist letter Feb. 18, after which Moda said it would quit
selling the allegedly infringing items, according to court
papers.  The sales continued, and Moda began marketing additional
items bearing the slogan, including tote bags, Chrysler said.  The public is confused about the source of the infringing
shirts, and the automaker is harmed, Chrysler said. It asked the
court to halt sales of the allegedly infringing items, to order
Moda not to create and sell any more infringing products, and to
award money damages equal to three times the profit Moda
received from its sale of the merchandise.  Additionally, Chrysler asked for monetary damages
sufficient to punish Moda for its actions, and for attorney fees
and litigation costs.  Chrysler is represented by  Marshall G. MacFarlane  of  Young
Basile Hanlon & MacFarlane PC  of Troy,  Michigan .  The case is Chrysler Group LLC v. Moda Group LLC, 2:11-cv-
11074-AJT-MJH, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Michigan
(Detroit).  Washington Post Ends Use of ‘Redskins’ in Column, Webcast Titles    Washington Post Co. (WPO) ’s flagship newspaper  said  it changed
the name of its pro football column and blog after the
Washington Redskins complained.  The column and blog changed their names from “Redskins
Insider” to “Football Insider,” the Post said.  The Washington-based National Football League franchise
also uses “Redskins Insider” and objected to others using the
term, according to the newspaper.  The restriction is part of a trend among of sports teams
that are moving into the news business, and producing their own
programming and broadcasts, the newspaper reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  