-- 
At Sendai Hospitals, Victims Go Without Painkillers and Food

-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 
2011-03-17T18:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/at-sendai-hospitals-quake-victims-run-out-of-painkillers-power-and-food.html
Two surgical operations were under
way at Tohoku University Hospital in the city of Sendai on March
11 when  Japan ’s strongest earthquake ever cut off the power. One
was stopped and the patient stitched up. The other was completed
with in-house power generation.  In the following days, cancer patients were sent home
because there was no medication for their chemotherapy. More
than 1,000 patients lived for four days on bread, canned corned
beef and dried biscuits, said Mio Onodera, a 25-year-old nurse.
There are no painkillers and intravenous tubes are being reused.  “We are doing things I can’t even think of in normal
times,” Onodera said in a phone interview from Sendai. “The
hardest thing is to ask patients to put up with the pain.”  At the hospital in this coastal city of about 1 million,
employees who lost family members care for elderly patients with
dedication, said Katsutoshi Furukawa, a 50-year-old neurologist.
At Suzuki Memorial Hospital nearby, all division heads are
sleeping on-site and no one has showered for six days, said
nursing-division chief Katy Yagihashi, 53.  The hospitals of the Sendai region are on the front lines
of Japan’s gravest crisis since World War II. As interviews with
six medical professionals in the region show, they are being
stressed as never before.  Doctors and nurses must treat injured quake victims --
though there are few of them -- as well as managing their
ongoing caseload, scrounging food and water for employees and
patients and handling the psychological toll of being 96
kilometers (60 miles) from a possible nuclear meltdown.  Avoiding Rain  “Depending on the weather, staff are told to stand by at
home because of the radiation risks,” said Mika Chiba, 42, a
nurse at Suzuki Memorial Hospital. “It rained yesterday and we
were told to keep from being exposed to rain. But we have to 
walk or bike to work because we don’t have gas for our cars.”  The patients show great fortitude, said Onodera of Tohoku
Hospital. Some drink as little water as possible to preserve
scarce supplies. A cancer patient whose scheduled operation was
postponed asked to leave the hospital because he felt guilty
occupying a bed. Though he was from a town some distance away,
he left without anyone to pick him up, she said.  The quake victims display a variety of symptoms. The day
after the seism, Onodera cared for patients with carbon monoxide
poisoning from indoor coal fires because the power was off. The
following day, patients in cardiac arrest were brought to the
emergency room. And a young psychiatric patient had to be
treated with sedatives because she was afraid helicopters would
fall on her, Furukawa said.  ‘That’s Terrible’  Other quake victims don’t talk about their experiences. A
woman at Tohoku who lost her son and daughter-in-law and was
rescued from the wreckage of her building lies silently on her
bed, Onodera said. She answers questions but says nothing
except, while watching television, “That’s terrible.”  Many professionals are working without knowing whether
their families are safe, although Furukawa, who is also an
assistant professor at Tohoku University, was able to contact
his wife and son in Sendai before mobile and landline service
stopped entirely. Working at another hospital outside Sendai, he
couldn’t go home for two days because roads around the hospital
were covered by sea water.  At that, he was lucky. Some of the hospital’s staff members
have siblings and parents who live in coastal areas struck by
the tsunami, where thousands are said to be missing, he said.  Dead Phones  “They really want to go home, but there’s no way to
communicate because phones are dead and no ways of getting
there,” he said. “All they hear and see is devastating stories
and scenes from news. They all have heartbreaking looks, while
handling their duties very professionally.”  One colleague, he said, is from Kesennuma, a city that was
hit by the tsunami and then burned.  “She has not been able to contact her family and siblings,”
Furukawa said. “While knowing the chances of them surviving are
very unlikely, she attends her patients. She gives such kind
words to the elderly ones. I get a catch in my throat looking at
her.”  While power and water are slowly being restored in the
region, the hospital personnel are forgoing bathing to make more
water available for patients.  “It’s been six days but I haven’t even washed my face or
hair, or showered,” said Yagihashi at Suzuki Memorial. “We are
starting to smell. Staff people are cleaning their patients with
disposable wet wipes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net . 