-- 
Polysilicon Supply From Japan for Solar Electronics Disrupted by Quake

-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e   a n d   M a r c   R o c a
-- 
2011-03-17T13:14:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/au-optronics-unit-halts-polysilicon-production-after-japan-earthquake.html
M.Setek Co., which has the capacity
to make more than a third of  Japan ’s polysilicon that’s used in
solar cells and electronics, said its production was halted by
the March 11 earthquake.  Polysilicon output from the facility in Soma City,
northeastern Japan, was suspended after the temblor knocked out
power in the region, Rei Kikuchi, a company official for the
unit of Taiwan’s AU Optronics, said today. The plant has an
annual capacity of 7,000 tons out of Japan’s 20,000 tons.  The country produces about 10 percent of the world’s
polysilicon, which is used to fabricate solar panels and
semiconductors, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. Solar
cell and module plants in western Japan were unscathed.  “A short-term disruption of this size should not have much
effect in the market as there is enough polysilicon out there,”
Daniel Guttmann, director of renewable at the consulting firm
PwC, said by phone. “It could lead to an upward tick in
polysilicon prices, which have risen in the past few months
after falling about 90 percent since 2008.”  Shares of non-Japanese polysilicon makers such as  Wacker
Chemie AG (WCH)  and MEMC Electric Materials Inc. have gained since the
quake following reports of damage to Japanese manufacturers and
rolling power outages. M.Setek didn’t disclose how much of
polysilicon it was producing before the quake.  Solar Plants  Production at other manufacturers of polysilicon, cells and
modules remains unaffected, according to New Energy Finance.  “In the near-term, there’s concern that problems in
electricity supply can lead to a lack of components for
manufacturers in industries such as solar and electric
vehicles,” said Ali Izadi-Najafabadi, an analyst at New Energy
Finance in Tokyo.  Photovoltaic cells are the leading clean energy industry in
Japan, which supplies solar products worldwide and aims to build
28 gigawatts in Japanese plants by 2020. The country makes about
2.7 gigawatts in solar modules and cells, about 10 percent of
global supply, according to New Energy Finance.  “Japan has big ambitions in solar as the ambitious 2020
target shows,” Guttmann said. “Given Japan’s budget deficit
and the cost of rebuilding, the best-case scenario is that this
target is not reduced.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in  Tokyo  at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net ;
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  