-- 
AutoNation, Asbury Paying Pre-Recession Prices for New Dealers

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-03-17T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/autonation-asbury-paying-pre-recession-prices-for-new-dealers.html
Auto dealership chains are pursuing
new stores and paying pre-recession multiples on acquisitions to
expand their networks as the U.S. auto market recovers.    AutoNation Inc. (AN) , Penske Automotive Group Inc. and  Group 1
Automotive Inc. (GPI)  are paying 3 to 5 times earnings before interest
and taxes for acquisitions after failing stores were sold during
the recession for book value or scrappage prices, said four
dealership brokers interviewed by Bloomberg. U.S. new-vehicle
sales, which fell to a 27-year low of 10.4 million in 2009, are
forecast to rise to 12.9 million this year.  “The economic environment bodes well for dealer M&A
activity,” said Gary Silberg, who leads KPMG LLP’s U.S.
automotive practice and is based in  Chicago . “It’s so hard to
do a deal when you don’t know what sales are going to drop to.
Now you have stability, and you have growth.”  New-vehicle sales per U.S. dealership this year may rise to
levels reached before the recession, auto-dealership consultant
Urban Science said last month. Sales per dealer may reach those
levels with 3.2 million fewer industry deliveries than in 2007
because manufacturers led by  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler
Group LLC closed locations as part of their bankruptcies in
2009, the Detroit-based firm said.  AutoNation, the largest U.S. auto retailer, this month
acquired a  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  namesake brand store in  Fort
Myers ,  Florida , with annual sales of about $135 million.  ‘More Confidence’  AutoNation, based in  Fort Lauderdale , Florida, will open
six dealerships in 2011 that were awarded by manufacturers and
spend $500 million in the three years through 2012 on renovating
existing stores, Chief Operating Officer Michael Maroone said.  “We’re clearly in the recovery,” Maroone said in a
telephone interview. “It was very difficult to value stores in
the downward spiral of the cycle. There’s more confidence that
we can look at a store and know what it could do for us.”  The number of U.S. auto dealerships fell 4.4 percent last
year to 17,659, Urban Science said. The normal rate of closings
was between 1 percent and 2 percent before 2009, when 8 percent
of dealerships closed amid GM and Chrysler’s bankruptcies.  AutoNation had 206 U.S. dealerships as of Dec. 31, down
from 283 in 2003, according to regulatory filings.  Asbury
Automotive Group Inc. (ABG) , the Duluth, Georgia-based retailer, has
cut 13 stores since 2003, while Group 1 has eliminated 10 stores
since 2006.  ‘Settled Landscape’  “The current environment has the advantage of a relatively
settled landscape,” said Paul Taylor, chief economist at the
National Automobile Dealers Association in McLean, Virginia.
“They know which other brands and how many same-brand
competitors are going to be in the larger geographic area of a
dealership they might think about acquiring. That’s helpful.”  Asbury is better positioned to purchase stores after
selling its Nalley Motor Trucks business this month, Chief
Executive Officer Craig Monaghan said in an interview. Asbury in
December bought a Greenville,  South Carolina , store with annual
revenue of $125 million.  “We’ve traded assets that aren’t a core strategic
competence for a group of stores that are attractive franchises
in our market,” Monaghan said.  Group 1 this month acquired a Volkswagen AG namesake brand
dealership in Irving,  Texas , that may generate $25 million in
annual sales.  Better Opportunities  “Our first and best use of our capital is to grow the
company through acquisitions,” said Peter DeLongchamps, vice
president of manufacturer relations at Houston-based Group 1.
“The opportunities to acquire are clearly better this year than
in the last two years.”  Group 1 is pursuing stores selling GM’s Chevrolet and  Ford
Motor Co. (F) ’s namesake brands for the first time since 2005, CEO
Earl Hesterberg said in November.  Detroit-based GM’s Buick and GMC are in higher demand, said
Bob Morris, a broker for auto dealership sales and acquisitions
at Granville, Ohio-based  Tim Lamb Group  LLC.  Buyers will pay more than 10 times pretax earnings for
Mercedes, Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, Toyota or Honda Motor Co.
stores in major markets, he said.  “When we get a property like that, it’s like taking a
piece of fresh meat and throwing it in a tank of piranhas,”
Morris said. D.T. Murphy & Co. in Glen Ridge,  New Jersey ; Nancy
Phillips Associates in Exeter,  New Hampshire ; and Gordon Page &
Associates in Tampa, Florida, also provided estimates for the
average multiples dealers are paying for acquisitions.  Pressure on dealers from manufacturers including Ford and
Daimler AG for more capital investments in their stores may lead
to opportunities for more acquisitions at  Penske Automotive
Group Inc. (PAG) , CEO Roger Penske said on a Feb. 16 conference call.  Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz drew about $1.4 billion in dealer
investments to update U.S. stores as part of a program that
began in 2008 and will be completed this year. Ford has asked
Lincoln luxury-brand store owners to make renovations of as much
as $2 million per showroom, dealers said in October.  “A lot of these owners are thinking now is the time to get
out,” Michael Kearney, Asbury’s chief operating officer, said
in a telephone interview. “The number of deals reaching
‘conversation mode’ has increased.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Craig Trudell  in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at   korland@bloomberg.net . 