-- 
Tax Holiday for $1 Trillion May Lure Back Profits Without Growth

-- B y   P e t e r   C o y   a n d   J e s s e   D r u c k e r
-- 
2011-03-17T21:09:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/tax-holiday-for-1-trillion-may-lure-profits-without-spurring-u-s-growth.html
Google Ireland is not a branch
office of the U.S.-based search giant  Google Inc. (GOOG)  It’s a
separate corporation, and American tax collectors can’t touch a
dime that Google Ireland earns from its core business until it
sends profits back home to the mother ship in Mountain View,
California.  The term of art for bringing the money back is repatriation
-- the same as for a soldier captured abroad. U.S.
multinationals have more than $1 trillion in profits stashed in
overseas subsidiaries.  Some of the companies with the most money squirreled away
say they’re prepared to bring a big chunk of it home. All they
want in return is a temporary tax break that wouldn’t cost the
U.S. Treasury anything, since it’s money that would otherwise be
kept abroad and not taxed at all. The tax break would actually
raise billions of dollars from applying the reduced  tax rate  to
the money that’s been repatriated.  What’s not to like? John T. Chambers, the chief executive
officer of  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , told securities analysts in
February that “you’re now seeing political leaders at all levels
understand” the case for a tax holiday on repatriated foreign
profits. “I think this one has well over a 60 percent
probability of being resolved in a positive way,” he said.  Although a lobbying campaign is just getting under way,
Representative Brian P. Bilbray, a California Republican, has
already introduced a bill that would let companies bring home
money tax-free if they used it for research and development or
facilities expansion.  Fundamental Changes  Aside from Cisco, the coalition for repatriation relief
includes  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) , Apple Inc., CA Technologies,  Duke
Energy Corp. (DUK) , Google Inc.,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ,  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE)  and  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its
March 21 issue.  The group is seeking fundamental changes in tax law. If it
can’t get them right away, it still wants the tax holiday. Its
opening position is that there should be no conditions on how
the money is used. Chambers  argued in the Wall Street Journal 
last October that a repatriation might create as many as
2 million jobs.  It’s a seductive argument -- reap billions in tax revenue
from money that’s currently untaxed and generate economic growth
to boot. On closer inspection, though, the coalition’s argument
has some logical loopholes. An almost identical holiday passed
by Congress in 2004 and taken mostly in 2005 did little to boost
jobs or investment, according to several independent economic
studies.  No Cash Shortage  Some economists say a holiday today might be even less
effective because cash isn’t a constraint in 2011 -- it’s
bountiful, thanks to the Federal Reserve’s loose-money policy.
U.S. nonfinancial corporations have $1.9 trillion in liquid
assets, the Fed says. No more than half of that -- probably
significantly less -- is offshore. An unknown portion of the
$1 trillion-plus in foreign-held profits isn’t cash. It’s tied
up in foreign factories, offices and the like and can’t easily
be repatriated.  “The problem is lack of demand or lack of investment
opportunities” in the U.S., says  Dhammika Dharmapala , an
economist and law professor at the University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign.  Granting another holiday so soon might induce companies to
stash even more money abroad, convinced that if they wait long
enough another holiday will arrive, says  Thomas J. Brennan , a
professor at Northwestern University School of Law in Chicago.  Lawmakers Reluctant  Lawmakers have thus far been cool to the idea of a
repatriation holiday. Passing one without reform “makes a farce
out of the whole system,” says Kent Conrad, a North Dakota
Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee. Even corporate America
isn’t unanimous in its support.  “A one-time repatriation of profits is a bad idea,” says
Gregory J. Hayes, chief financial officer of  United Technologies
Corp. (UTX)  “My fear is that we’ll have a repeat of 2004. If companies
repatriate these profits and spend it on things like share
buybacks, that will create such negative connotations around  tax
reform  with the public.”  Still, the idea lingers. Congress and the Obama
administration are turning over trash cans in search of ways to
accelerate growth and bring down the unemployment rate without
stimulus measures that increase already-huge budget deficits.
Hence the appeal of what looks like a free lunch. For
government, the challenge is to choose emergency fixes that
won’t end up causing long-term harm.  “The problem is, there’s no lobby group for good
government,” says John L. Buckley, former chief Democratic tax
counsel for the House Ways and Means Committee.  ‘Mulcting the Treasury’  Tax collectors have been struggling to get their hands on
the profit from international operations since the early days of
the corporate income tax, enacted in 1909. Each year brings
another strategy for legal  tax avoidance .  “All are alike,” President Franklin D. Roosevelt wrote to
Congress in 1937, “in that failure to pay results in shifting
the tax load to the shoulders of others less able to pay and in
mulcting the Treasury of the government’s just due.”  Legal avoidance is booming, according to data collected by
Bloomberg Businessweek from the footnotes of annual 10-K
statements of companies on file at the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Congress says that companies don’t have to pay tax
on actively earned profits from their foreign subsidiaries as
long as they keep the money permanently reinvested outside the
U.S. in subsidiaries that are organized as foreign corporations.
Each year the parent companies state in their 10-Ks how much
money is stored in that category. For 30 big companies, the
profits kept abroad grew 560 percent, to $740 billion, from the
end of 2000 to the end of 2010, SEC filings show.  2004 Holiday Results  The temporary holiday passed in 2004 was supposed to shrink
the pile. It allowed companies to repatriate profits attributed
to their foreign operations at a 5.25 percent tax rate instead
of the usual 35 percent. (Companies get a credit for foreign tax
already paid.)  According to the  Internal Revenue Service , $362 billion
came back to the U.S., of which $312 billion was eligible for
the reduced tax rate. The amount repatriated was 45 percent of
the total held abroad at the end of 2004. In one of the more
extreme repatriations,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  brought back
$14.5 billion, almost all of the $15 billion that it had abroad,
SEC filings show.  Incentive to Wait  In the long run, though, the holiday was rife with
unintended consequences.  Research  by Northwestern’s Brennan
indicates companies rationally concluded that if they were
granted one special one-time tax break, they might very well be
granted another. That gave them the incentive to attribute even
more of their profits to foreign operations, like a shopper
waiting for an end-of-season sale. By the end of 2006 the total
“permanently” reinvested abroad had exceeded the 2004 peak. It
has continued to grow since.  Business did indeed lobby for seconds soon after its first
helping of tax relief. In 2009, just five years after the 2004
break, Congress debated giving another one as a stimulus-bill
amendment sponsored by Democratic Senator Barbara Boxer of
California and Republican Senator John Ensign of Nevada. The
amendment was defeated 42-55 on the floor of the Senate as anti-
business sentiment swept the nation after the financial crisis.  Lobbying Campaign  Cutting taxes on big businesses that stow profits abroad is
never going to be an applause line for candidates on the
campaign trail. Then again, it doesn’t have to be. All business
has to do is get a bill through Congress and signed by the
President using carefully targeted contacts, not billboards and
airtime. To that end, the pro-holiday coalition has quietly
assembled an all-star lobbying and communications team heavy on
Democratic representation, as if to counter the impression that
tax relief for big business is solely a Republican objective.  The team’s chief communications strategist is Anita Dunn,
the Democratic media consultant who served as President Barack Obama’s interim communications director during his first year in
office. Politico.com  first reported  her involvement on March 4.
Dunn runs strategic communications and public relations for
SKDKnickerbocker, a new firm created from the merger of
Washington’s Squier Knapp Dunn Communications and  New York ’s
Knickerbocker Consulting.  The lead lobbyists are former Representative Jim McCrery of
Louisiana, who was the ranking Republican on the House Ways and
Means committee, and Jeffrey A. Forbes, the former chief of
staff to Senate Finance Chairman  Max Baucus , the Montana
Democrat.  Obama Shift  The pro-holiday message has gained traction, at least a
little. As Bloomberg News reported on Feb. 11, Obama’s
consistent pledge to “end tax breaks for companies that ship
jobs overseas” disappeared from his stump speech after
Republicans won the House in November and Obama began talking
with executives about a corporate tax code overhaul.  In his State of the Union address, Obama even proposed
cutting the corporate tax rate while simultaneously closing
loopholes. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner has expressed
openness to some kind of repatriation-tax holiday as long as
it’s linked to “comprehensive” tax reform.  The economics of a holiday, however, are less pliable than
the politics. While many economists agree there’s something
wrong with a tax code that induces companies to keep profits
abroad when they could be more efficiently deployed in the U.S.,
fewer say that a one-time tax break is the right remedy.  Take Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke . The coalition’s
talking points include what sounds like a plug from him in
congressional testimony March 2.  Bernanke, Zandi  “As you know,” Bernanke said, “I’ve suggested looking at
the corporate tax code, and one aspect of it is the
territoriality provision. If you were to allow firms to bring
back cash, you know, from abroad without additional taxation or
limited additional taxation, there might be more incentive for
them to bring it home and use it domestically.”  On closer reading, it’s apparent that Bernanke wasn’t
talking about a one-time holiday but about changing the method
of taxation to a territorial system, in which only profits
earned in the U.S. are taxed. The same goes for a December quote
cited in the talking points from  Mark Zandi , chief economist of
Moody’s Economy.com: “The (repatriation) proposal is a
reasonable, albeit very modest, idea.” Says Zandi now: “At this
point I don’t think I would go down that path” of a stand-alone
tax holiday. “It makes much more sense to fold it into broader
tax reform.”  Economic Argument  Even on theoretical grounds the tax holiday is debatable.
Cutting taxes can stimulate the economy if it adds to companies’
incentives to invest and expand. But the holiday, as a break on
profits that have already been made, wouldn’t improve
incentives, says  Edward D. Kleinbard , former chief of staff of
the Joint Committee on Taxation, who is a professor at the
University of Southern California’s Gould School of Law in Los
Angeles.  To build the economic case for a holiday, the coalition
cites several studies, including two from 2003 and 2008 by  Allen Sinai , president of the consulting firm Decision Economics,
which predicted their impact based on an econometric model. The
studies -- sponsored by the American Council for Capital
Formation, which favors lower corporate taxes -- didn’t consider
the outcome of the 2005 repatriation.  Share Buybacks  Some analyses that did showed disappointing results. The
2005 repatriation “did not increase domestic investment,
employment, or R&D,” but did boost share buybacks, concludes a
forthcoming Journal of Finance  article  by Illinois’ Dharmapala,
C. Fritz Foley at Harvard Business School and Kristin J. Forbes
at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Sloan School of
Management.  One anecdote makes the point acutely: Hewlett-Packard, even
as it was pulling its $14.5 billion home from abroad, announced
plans in 2005 to reduce its workforce by 14,500.  “Given that the last holiday did not result in repatriating
firms increasing investment levels, it seems the burden is on
the advocates of another holiday to explain why things would be
different this time,” Dharmapala said in an interview.  Sinai, of Decision Economics, stands by his research: “I’m
quite sure there were some jobs created,” he said. Hewlett-
Packard declined to comment.  Subpart F  Legal tax avoidance intensified after World War II, as the
U.S. dominated the world economy. Companies with newly
established foreign operations had fresh opportunities to shift
income. The Kennedy Administration worried that the flow of
dollars out of the country was jeopardizing U.S. adherence to
the gold standard. In 1962, Congress passed Subpart F of the
Internal Revenue Code, which reduced companies’ ability to keep
foreign profits out of reach of the U.S. tax authorities by
“deferring” taxation in overseas vehicles. Subpart F didn’t lock
the door.  As is often the case in Washington, the scandal isn’t
what’s illegal -- it’s what’s legal, in this instance tax-
avoidance systems with names like the Double Irish and the Dutch
Sandwich. As detailed in a Bloomberg Businessweek  investigative
story last May ,  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX) , which makes the
antidepressant Lexapro, sells almost 100 percent of its drugs in
the U.S. and cuts its U.S. taxes dramatically by attributing the
bulk of profits to a law office in Bermuda.  Similarly, Google reduced its income taxes by $3.1 billion
over three years by shifting income to Ireland, then the
Netherlands, and ultimately to Bermuda. Microsoft has used a
similar arrangement. Records in the Cayman Islands and Ireland
show that Facebook is setting up such a structure too.  Profits Rise Faster  The clearest evidence that companies are carefully managing
where they report their taxable profits is that earnings
overseas have grown faster than sales abroad. In 2008, large
U.S. pharmaceutical companies reported about 80 percent of their
pretax profits overseas, up from about a third a decade earlier,
according to Martin A. Sullivan, a contributing editor to the
trade journal Tax Notes and a former U.S. Treasury tax
economist. Those companies’ foreign sales grew more slowly
during that period: to 52 percent of revenue from 38 percent.  The very success of tax-avoidance strategies is what
motivates the push for a holiday. U.S. multinationals have an
embarrassment of overseas riches, more than they can use. If
they bring profits home, they must pay the difference between
the U.S. tax rate and what they have already paid abroad. That
would sting: From 2007 through 2009, Google reported an average
tax rate of 2.4 percent on the earnings it claims overseas. If
Google and others can get the repatriation rate down to
5.25 percent as in 2005, the pain will be more tolerable. (In
2005, tax-planning strategies helped lower the average tax paid
on repatriated funds to just 3.7 percent, according to the Joint
Committee on Taxation.)  New Tax Code  Critics of a proposed repatriation break complain that it
would reward companies that have aggressively shifted profits
into tax havens. “This is the system they bought into,” USC’s
Kleinbard says. “Now they present (paying tax on) the fruits of
their success as some kind of a hideous punishment.”  There’s broad agreement that, if done right, corporations
and the federal government would benefit far more from a new tax
code than a tax holiday. Many multinationals, including
companies on both sides of the holiday debate -- such as Cisco
and United Technologies -- want the U.S. to adopt a territorial
system similar to that used by most of the rest of the world.
Under such a system, the U.S. would largely stop trying to go
after companies’ worldwide income and instead mostly tax profits
earned in the U.S., whether by U.S.-based or foreign-based
companies. The only other sizable countries that still use a
system like the one in the U.S. are Chile, Israel, Mexico,
Poland and South Korea. Supporters of territorial taxation
include the bipartisan National Commission on Fiscal
Responsibility and Reform created last year by Obama.  Territorial System  A pure territorial system has its own disadvantages.
Because it doesn’t tax companies’ foreign income, it amps up the
gains from shifting income to low-tax jurisdictions. So it works
only if accompanied by close supervision and rules against
gaming the system. Most developed countries, including Germany
and Australia, have regulations to curb this sort of gaming,
meaning that their systems, while opposite in concept to that of
the U.S., are not all that different in practice.  Lowering the U.S. tax rate on all earnings, foreign and
domestic, from 35 percent is a high priority of business groups.
Thanks to loopholes, what companies actually pay as a percentage
of their income is around 30 percent. That’s roughly the same as
in several large industrialized countries in Europe and lower
than the effective rate reported by Japanese companies,
according to recent research by  Kevin S. Markle  of Dartmouth’s
Tuck School of Business and  Douglas A. Shackelford  of the
University of North Carolina’s Kenan-Flagler Business School.  More Generous  The American system works out to be more generous than that
of other countries for some companies, says  David S. Miller , a
partner at Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft in New York. Consider
this: A U.S. company that pays a lot in high-tax Germany can
apply the resulting credits against profits repatriated from a
zero-tax location like Bermuda.  One proposed change in the tax code would allocate profits
between countries the way most U.S. states with a corporate
income tax do, using hard-to-fudge measures like employment or
sales in each jurisdiction. If a company had 90 percent of its
employees in the U.S., the IRS would tax 90 percent of its
profits. Simple, but few multinationals are in support.  In Washington, framing the debate is everything. John
Chambers and others frame the repatriation-tax holiday as
something for nothing -- jobs for the unemployed, dividends for
shareholders, tax payments for the Treasury. But the free lunch
isn’t really free. If companies are once again given a big tax
break on profits they’ve kept abroad, they’ll be induced to
steer even more of their income offshore. That’s a frame that
puts the repatriation holiday in a decidedly unflattering light.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Coy in New York at  pcoy3@bloomberg.net  or;
Jesse Drucker in New York at  jdrucker4@bloomberg.net  or 
 i97.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at  jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  or;
Gary Putka at  gputka@bloomberg.net  or  