-- 
Bahrain Arrests Opposition Leaders Over ‘Foreign’ Ties; Iran Pulls Envoy

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-03-17T16:07:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/bahrain-arrests-four-opposition-leaders-as-crackdown-widens.html
Bahraini security forces arrested
opposition leaders and accused them of having ties with foreign
countries, a day after  Iran  withdrew its ambassador to protest
the growing crackdown against mostly Shiite demonstrators.  Those arrested included Hassan Mushaima, a leader of the
Shiite Haq movement, and Ebrahim Sharif, head of the opposition
National Democratic Action Society, according to a statement
today from al-Wefaq, the largest Shiite opposition party. Al-
Wefaq said six people were arrested; the state-run Bahrain news
agency gave no number.  Bahrain has been struggling to quell more than a month of
protests led by Shiites calling for democracy and increased
civil rights. About a dozen people have been killed in the
protests. Shiites make up about 70 percent of the population and
many retain cultural and family ties with Iran, as well as with
Shiites in  Saudi Arabia , who are a minority of about 10 to 15
percent.  “The government may be trying to present it as a Sunni-
Shiite confrontation and also to label the opposition as being
acolytes of the Iranians,” Lord Eric Avebury, vice-chair of the
UK Parliamentary Human Rights Group said in a telephone
interview. “That is also false.”  Bahrain’s BB All Share Index rose 0.1 percent as trading
resumed after a one-day suspension.  Fitch Ratings  lowered the
country’s foreign-debt rating by two levels on March 15 and said
another downgrade is possible.  The government declared a three-month state of emergency on
March 15 after troops from Saudi Arabia and other Gulf states
arrived to support the administration.  Saudi Fears  The protests have fueled Saudi fears that unrest may spread
to the kingdom, which holds about 20 percent of global oil
reserves. Crude oil for April delivery rose $2.28, or 2.3
percent, to $100.26 a barrel at 10:39 a.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  In Saudi Arabia, about 1,000 people in the eastern city of
al-Qatif defied a ban on demonstrations and protested peacefully
yesterday to demand the country’s troops end their incursion
into neighboring Bahrain.  Almost 1,000 Kuwaiti Shiites demonstrated in  Kuwait  City
today in solidarity with the Bahraini protests. An estimated 30
percent of Kuwait is Shiite.  The state-run Bahrain News Agency said the opposition
leaders were arrested for “contacting foreign countries.”  “The General Command of the Bahrain Defense Force will
take all necessary legal measures” against those arrested, it
said.  Ambassador Recalled  Iran recalled its ambassador to Bahrain, Mehdi Agha-Jafari,
late yesterday to protest the crackdown, state-run Mehr news
agency reported.  Bahrain earlier recalled its envoy to Tehran after Iranian
Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  referred to the
deployment of Gulf troops as “meddling.”  Bahraini police and soldiers today set up checkpoints on
streets in the capital and could be seen searching cars and
questioning several young men who they removed from vehicles.  Riot police forced protesters from their main gathering
point at the Pearl Roundabout yesterday. Two members of al-Wefaq
were killed, the group said, while two policemen died when they
were hit by a car during the operation.  After the clashes, the military imposed a curfew on parts
of the country from 4 p.m. until 4 a.m. and banned protests and
public gatherings.  ‘Explosive Time’  “The authorities are doing everything they can possibly do
to bring calm back to the city and villages,” said  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Dubai-based Institute for
Near East and Gulf Military Analysis. “They are also arresting
these leaders because tomorrow is Friday and after prayers is
usually a fairly explosive time in the region. This Friday will
be no exception.”  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  called the violence
“alarming.”  “We have made it very clear to the Bahraini government at
the highest levels that we expect them to exercise restraint,”
Clinton said in an interview with  CBS News , taped in Cairo. “We
would remind them of their humanitarian obligation to keep
medical facilities open and to facilitate the treatment of the
injured, and to get back to the negotiating table.”    Bahrain  is a logistical hub and command center for U.S.
naval operations in  Iraq ,  Afghanistan  and the  Indian Ocean . It
is home to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet, which protects oil-
supply lines that pass through the  Persian Gulf  and the  Strait
of Hormuz .  King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa has offered a national
dialogue and Crown Prince Salman has said he’s committed to
talks. Opposition groups have dismissed the offers.  To help Bahrain finance social spending that would meet
some opposition demands, Gulf states on March 10 said they plan
to provide the country with $10 billion over a decade. Oman,
which has also seen protests, was allocated a similar sum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Manama, Bahrain at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 