-- 
Barclays, Citigroup Said to Be Subpoenaed in Libor Probe

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   J o n   M e n o n
-- 
2011-03-17T17:29:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/barclays-citigroup-said-to-be-subpoenaed-in-probe-of-libor-manipulation.html
  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  are
among banks subpoenaed by U.S. regulators investigating whether
some firms manipulated the setting of the London interbank
offered rate, two people with knowledge of the probes said.    Germany ’s WestLB AG and London-based  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc (LLOY)  are among the 16 banks on the panel that set Libor that have
been contacted by regulators requesting information, said two
people who declined to be identified because they aren’t
authorized to speak on the matter.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the
biggest U.S. bank by assets, also received subpoenas from the
Securities and Exchange Commission and the  Department of
Justice , the Financial Times reported yesterday.  “The SEC’s focus is entirely about whether the banks’
disclosure to the market may have been misleading, and what
impact did those disclosures have on their broader reporting,”
said  Jacob Frenkel , an attorney at Shulman Rogers Gandal Pordy &
Ecker in Potomac,  Maryland , and a former SEC lawyer specializing
in fraud and stock manipulation cases. “There are a lot of
allegations in the market about conduct during the crisis.”  Libor rates are set daily by the British Bankers’
Association, based on data it gets from a panel of banks on what
it would cost them to borrow funds for various periods of time
and in different currencies. The validity of Libor, a benchmark
for more than $350 trillion of derivatives and corporate bonds,
was questioned during the credit crisis as banks became wary of
lending to one another because of mounting losses.  Not ‘Classic’ Case  The SEC may examine whether banks misled their own
investors by making misstatements regarding the benchmark, said
Arthur Wilmarth, a professor at George Washington University Law
School. During the financial crisis, investors tracked firms’
ability to borrow money and remain liquid.  “It’s not your classic SEC case, citing a press release or
public filing,” he said. “They might argue that because the
market interprets Libor in a particular way that it amounts to a
public statement.”  The government also may be investigating whether banks
colluded with one another to influence Libor, said Herb Hovenkamp, a professor at the University of Iowa Law School in
Iowa City and the author of “Antitrust Law,” a 23-volume text.  “The thing the government must be investigating is whether
they agreed with one another to use the data in the same way, to
report the same way, to rely on it in price making,” Hovenkamp
said in a telephone interview. “The all-important thing would
be the agreement.”  ‘Similar Matters’    UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, said on March 15 it
received subpoenas from the SEC, the Department of Justice and
the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission about possible
attempts to manipulate Libor. The bank also received an order to
provide information to the Japan Financial Supervisory Agency
concerning “similar matters,” it said.  The British Bankers’ Association said in an e-mailed
statement that they are committed to retaining the integrity of
Libor, “which continues to be the authoritative benchmark of
the wholesale money market.”  “We observe rigorous standards in our scrutiny and
governance of the Libor mechanism, and work with the industry to
ensure their continued full confidence in one of its most
accurate and reliable benchmarks,” the group said.  ‘A Lie’  Banks routinely misstated borrowing costs to the BBA to
avoid the perception they faced difficulty raising funds as
credit markets seized up, turning Libor into “a lie,” Tim Bond, head of  asset allocation  at  Barclays Capital , a unit of
Barclays, said in a Bloomberg Television interview in May 2008.  The  Justice Department  is typically involved in inquiries
related to the financial crisis and their involvement doesn’t
indicate there will be a criminal probe, said Frenkel.  “I think when you’re talking about Libor rates, which are
open to legitimate interpretation and were the subject of
considerable discussions in advance of disclosure, it is very
unlikely that we will ever see a criminal case in this area,”
Frenkel said.  Spokesmen for Bank of America, Barclays, Citigroup, Lloyds,
UBS and WestLB declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Menon in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  