-- 
Barnes Bay Development Seeks Bankruptcy Court Protection

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-03-17T19:49:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/barnes-bay-development-seeks-bankruptcy-court-protection-2-.html
Barnes Bay Development Ltd., owner
of the  Viceroy Anguilla Resort & Residences  on the British West
Indies island of  Anguilla , sought  bankruptcy protection  after
failing to turn a profit.  The  Beverly Hills , California-based company managed by
Bradford Korzen listed about $531 million in assets and about
$462 million in debt as of Dec. 31 in Chapter 11 documents filed
today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  The resort covers 35 acres, with 3,200 feet of beach
frontage featuring 166 “beachfront and blufftop villas,”
townhouses, four restaurants and a water-purification plant. As
of October, the company had buyers lined up for 70 percent of
the residences, which sell for as much as $6.5 million,
according to court papers.  “Barnes Bay has been unprofitable from the outset, plagued
by construction delays and cost overruns that have left the
property overleveraged and unable to service its existing debt
obligations,” the company’s chief restructuring officer,
Deborah Branch, said in court filings. “Ultimately, it took
almost five years to complete the project, and cost
substantially more than was originally forecast.”  Cost Overruns  The project was expected to take two years to complete when
construction began in 2005, at an estimated cost of about $144
million. Expense projections more than doubled by January 2007
to $327 million, according to court documents. Labor disputes
and Hurricane Omar further delayed construction on the resort,
which opened in October.  Barnes Bay had a net loss of $13.6 million on revenue of
$16.7 million in 2010, court papers show. The company collected
$49 million in deposits on 97 residences with a total sale price
of $220 million. Some buyers have sued to terminate the purchase
agreements.  An affiliate of Greenwich, Connecticut-based Starwood
Capital Group LLC bought the company’s $370 million in secured
loans in October, according to court documents. The Starwood
affiliate, which already has made $12.6 million in unsecured
advances, agreed to provide as much as $5 million in financing
for the bankruptcy.  The loan “is absolutely vital” to fund operating expenses
and preserve value while the company seeks court approval to
sell virtually all its assets at auction, Branch said in court
papers.  The case is In re Barnes Bay Development Ltd., 11-BK-10792,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  