-- 
Bernanke in Testimony Can Show Ron Paul How QE2 Works in Markets

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 
2011-03-17T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/bernanke-in-testimony-can-prove-to-ron-paul-how-qe2-works-in-free-markets.html
The next time Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke appears before Congress, here are a few
visual aids he can use to show critics that quantitative easing
is working:  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of stocks has climbed 18
percent since he said Aug. 27 that additional asset purchases
might be warranted.  The  risk premium  on high-yield, high-risk bonds has
narrowed to 5.16 percentage points from 6.81 percentage points,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Inflation expectations have jumped by 44.4 percent.  The unemployment rate has fallen to its lowest level in
almost two years.  So much for 2008 Republican vice-presidential candidate
Sarah Palin’s assertion that the “dangerous experiment”
wouldn’t “magically fix economic problems.”  Quantitative easing “was a key factor in taking deflation
risk off the table,” said Peter Hooper, chief economist at
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in New York. “It certainly helped
bolster longer-term inflation expectations, and it was a factor
that contributed to the rally in the stock market. Overall, I
give it a good grade.”  The Fed’s Nov. 3 decision to buy $600 billion of  Treasury
securities  through June was dubbed QE2 by analysts and investors
because it followed $1.7 trillion of asset purchases that ended
in March 2010. The plan sparked the harshest political backlash
against the central bank in three decades, with Republican
lawmakers warning the additional stimulus risked causing a surge
in prices. So far, they were wrong.  Preferred Gauge  The Fed’s preferred inflation gauge, which excludes food
and fuel, rose 0.8 percent in January from a year earlier,
matching December’s gain, the lowest in five decades of record-
keeping. Fed officials aim for long-run overall inflation of 1.6
percent to 2 percent.  As financial markets rebound, economists are forecasting
growth this year at 3 percent, according to the median response
of 65 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News from March 4 to March
10. In an October survey, the median forecast was 2.4 percent.  “QE2 has given us some opportunity to act on our debt and
deficit, and we have not taken advantage of that,” House
Financial Services Committee Chairman  Spencer Bachus  said at a
March 2 hearing after Bernanke reiterated his call for Congress
to rein in the national debt, a message that resonates with
House Republican lawmakers. “Any criticism directed at the
chairman, you need to also sort of point that finger back at
yourselves,” said Bachus, an Alabama Republican.  Tone Down  The improvement in the economy hasn’t prompted Fed critics
like Representative  Ron Paul  to tone down their disapproval.  “The real cause of price inflation, which is a deadly
threat to us right now, is the  Federal Reserve System  and our
monetary policy,” Paul, a Texas Republican who wrote the book
“End the Fed,” said at the hearing.  While inflation expectations have risen, they don’t show
that investors are worried about skyrocketing prices. The break-
even rate for 10-year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities,
the yield difference between this debt and comparable maturity
Treasuries, rose to 2.57 percentage points on March 8, the
highest since July 2008 and up from 1.63 percentage points on
Aug. 27. The rate is a measure of the outlook for consumer
prices during the life of the securities.    Price Stability   Fed policy makers, whose goals are price stability and full
employment, said they voted for QE2 partly because of concerns
that prices would fall. New York Fed President  William Dudley ,
who is also vice chairman of the  Federal Open Market Committee ,
said Feb. 28 that the “considerably brighter” outlook isn’t
yet reason to withdraw the stimulus.  Yields on 10-year Treasury notes remain below their average
of 5.23 percent during the last decade, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark security yielded 3.17
percent yesterday, up from 2.64 percent on Aug. 27.  Even so, QE2 is “working pretty good” at achieving the
Fed’s goals of higher inflation and faster growth, said  Keith Hembre , chief economist at Nuveen Asset Management in  Minneapolis . “You look backward and that’s essentially what
it’s done.”  The FOMC affirmed plans to continue the program through
June at its March 15 meeting, noting that “the economic
recovery is on a firmer footing.” The  unemployment rate  fell to
8.9 percent in February, the lowest since April 2009. The
decline ended the longest period of joblessness at 9 percent or
higher since monthly records began in 1948.  Record Junk-Bond Sales  The availability of capital to the lowest-rated companies
also has increased since the start of QE2. Sales of high-yield,
or junk, bonds have reached $72.9 billion this year, the most on
record for the first quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The warnings about inflation risk still may prove prescient
in the long term if the Fed botches the withdrawal of its
unprecedented stimulus, Hembre said. The Fed has kept its
benchmark interest rate near zero since December 2008, and the
central bank’s assets have ballooned to a record $2.58 trillion.  “The Fed still faces a challenge in terms of exiting and
unwinding its large balance sheet, and that’s going to be a
tricky process, to say the least,” Deutsche Bank’s Hooper said.  While the Fed hasn’t committed to the specific methods it
will use to exit, or in what order, it has been releasing
details about its progress in building new programs and
expanding its ability to drain reserves. This includes
increasing the number of its counterparties.  Fed Tools  Dudley reiterated his view last week that the Fed has the
tools, such as raising the interest rate it pays on bank
reserves, to tighten credit when needed, and that QE2 has helped
the economy by boosting stocks and bonds.  The Fed “never would have done” the asset purchases if it
thought the program risked a surge in prices, Dudley said in
response to questions after a March 11 speech in Flushing,  New
York .  “People worry that these purchases will ultimately be
inflationary, and I don’t think they have anything to worry
about,” he said. “We are absolutely determined to prevent any
long-term inflation problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  