-- 
Besson Rejects Suggestion to Hold Referendum on Nuclear Future in France

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-03-17T09:16:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/besson-rejects-suggestion-to-hold-referendum-on-nuclear-future-in-france.html
French Industry Minister Eric Besson rejected calls for a referendum on nuclear power, saying
the question is one for voters in next year’s presidential
election.  “There is a major date coming up and that’s the
presidential election, which will allow us to do this,” Besson
said in an interview today on  France  2 television. He said
there’s “no question” of whether a separate poll is needed.  France’s dependence on atomic power for about 80 percent of
its electricity output has been criticized by anti-nuclear
organizations and green party members amid the atomic disaster
unfolding at  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant. State-
controlled Electricite de France SA operates the country’s 58
reactors while developing others in Normandy and  China  and
making plans for more in the U.K and  Italy .  Following news of explosions at the Japanese reactor,
Daniel Cohn-Bendit, a member of the Greens in the European Union
parliament, called for a French referendum on moving away from
nuclear power, backed by French anti-atomic groups like Sortir
du Nucleaire.  In a bid to quell worries about the safety of nuclear
power, the French government has announced that each reactor
will undergo safety checks and tests to determine how they would
hold up to floods and earthquakes and that a “debate” on the
energy could be organized. Prime Minister Francois Fillon called
“absurd” a pullout from the energy.  Nuclear power is the “basis” of the country’s energy
policy and there is “no objective reason” to shut any domestic
reactors, even the oldest 30-year-old models, Besson said. The
energy is less expensive and has lower greenhouse emissions than
many rival technologies, he said.  “What is the question, stop all the reactors? No one would
believe this,” he said. “Is someone ready to tell the French
power prices will rise 40 percent? This isn’t credible.”  European energy ministers plan to meet March 21 to discuss
nuclear reactor checks in all countries and developing common
standards for new plants, according to Besson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  