-- 
Sepp Blatter Said to Face Opposition for FIFA Post From Asia’s Bin Hammam

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-03-17T18:14:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/blatter-is-said-to-face-competition-for-fifa-s-presidency-from-bin-hammam.html
The head of soccer in  Asia  will run
against incumbent Sepp Blatter for the presidency of the sport’s 
governing body, FIFA, according to two people familiar with 
the situation.  Mohamed Bin Hammam said he will hold a press conference
tomorrow in Kuala Lumpur to announce his future plans and
wouldn’t comment further. He will be the first challenger to
Blatter since Cameroon’s Issa Hyatou tried to oust the 75-year-
old Swiss in 2002. Blatter’s going for his fourth four-year
term.  Bin Hammam, 61, will begin traveling to many of the 208
nations that belong to FIFA, starting with trips to Thailand and  China , the people said. They didn’t want to be named because Bin
Hammam hasn’t made an announcement. The election will be held
June 1.  The FIFA President controls one of sport’s most influential
bodies. The organization, which runs the World Cup, sports most-
watched event, had revenue of $4 billion between 2007 and 2010.
It has cash reserves of more than $1 billion and has
sponsorships from Sony Corp.,  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and Hyundai Motor
Co.  Bin Hammam, who is a FIFA vice president, last year helped
his home nation Qatar become the first Middle East country to be
awarded the rights to stage the World Cup. The emirate, which is
smaller than Connecticut, was a surprise choice for the 2022
event in a competition that featured the U.S.,  Japan , Korea and  Australia .  Controversy  The bidding race for that tournament and for the 2018 World
Cup, which was also decided in December, was hurt after two of
the 24 officials charged with making the decision and other FIFA
executives were suspended. They were snared by undercover
reporters from the Sunday Times newspaper, which alleged that
votes could be bought.    Bin Hammam  has said FIFA needs to become more transparent.
He’s likely to get support from some of the nations that lost
out in the vote, including  England . Roger Burden, the F.A.’s
interim chairman, quit a day after the World Cup vote, saying he
didn’t “trust” FIFA.  Blatter told reporters recently the organization needed to
improve its image.  “Competition is the best way to make the organization
vibrant and alive,” Bin Hamman said on his Facebook page on
March 5. “Competition is good for the organization, whether
president or any other posts.”  In January, he said FIFA “needs a lot of improvement” and
“there is something I can present and do for international
football.”  Since 1998  Blatter, a former FIFA secretary general, was elected to
his current role in 1998, replacing Brazilian Joao Havelange,
who stood down after 24 years in the post. Bin Hammam’s efforts
to introduce a term limit were rejected by FIFA’s decision
making panel last year.  The successful staging of the 2010  World Cup  in  South
Africa  may have strengthened Blatter’s position. He fought
against opponents, including members of FIFA’s executive
committee, to take the tournament to Africa for the first time.  Blatter said “many, many” national associations backed
his re-election bid.  A deadline for candidates is March 31. The election takes
place at FIFA’s annual Congress in Zurich.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Tariq Panja  at the London newsroom
on   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 