-- 
Blockbuster Creditors Lack Grounds to Sue Icahn, Lawyer Says

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-03-17T15:50:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/blockbuster-creditors-lack-grounds-to-sue-icahn-attorney-tells-court.html
Billionaire  Carl Icahn  and other
pre-bankruptcy lenders to  Blockbuster Inc. (BLOAQ)  didn’t do anything to
justify a lawsuit by general unsecured creditors, a lawyer for
the creditors said in court.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  in New York today
heard an update on an investigation by a committee of
Blockbuster’s unsecured creditors. The judge separately
dismissed a lawsuit brought by creditor Lyme Regis Partners LLC
that claimed Icahn had inside information as he invested in the
movie-rental chain.  “We found nothing in record or testimony that would allow
the committee to vacate liens of prepetition lenders,”
creditors’ attorney  Richard S. Kanowitz  told Lifland. If
creditors could challenge the pre-bankruptcy lenders’ rights, or
liens, to company assets, they might be able to claim more of
the assets.  Blockbuster, once the world’s largest movie-rental chain,
has a $290 million offer from a group of senior creditors. The
company plans to auction itself to test for higher offers.
Lifland said March 10 that Icahn can bid, overruling objections
from Lyme Regis.  Lifland said he denied Lyme Regis’s lawsuit against Icahn
because the investment firm, which holds 9 percent senior notes
in Blockbuster, had suffered no specific harm. The lawsuit was
“porous” and lacked information to back up claims that Icahn
engaged in improper conduct, Lifland said.  Dismissal Sought  Icahn, chairman of New York-based holding company  Icahn
Enterprises LP (IEP) , on Jan. 27 asked Lifland to dismiss the lawsuit.
Lyme Regis claimed the billionaire used inside information to
convert his equity stake in Blockbuster to debt, in a bid to
take control of the company after it reorganizes.  Icahn funded Blockbuster’s bankruptcy, along with Monarch
Alternative Capital LP and other lenders who made the offer to
buy the company.  The Dallas-based company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy on
Sept. 23. Blockbuster, with about 3,000 stores in the U.S., said
in the filing that sales shrank in recent years while  Netflix
Inc. (NFLX)  grew by renting movies online and through the mail, and  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR)  put Redbox DVD vending machines in supermarkets
and drugstores.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 