-- 
Bloomberg L.P. Opens 10TH Global Hub in Dubai

-- B y  
-- 
2011-03-17T12:52:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/bloomberg-l-p-opens-10th-global-hub-in-dubai.html
                              
Financial services leader triples the size of its office in
Dubai to support expansion of services in region  Dubai -- Bloomberg L.P. officially opened its 10th global hub
in Dubai today, tripling the size of its office to
accommodate the company’s expanding news operations and
customer support for its growing client base in the region.  Located in the Dubai International Finance Centre (DIFC),
this global hub will support regional customers of the
growing Bloomberg Professional® service, which is used by
more than 300,000 of the world’s leading business and
financial professionals.  The Dubai hub will house
Bloomberg’s expanding news operations and will provide
support and development resources for Bloomberg’s recently
launched Islamic Finance platform (ISLM), a comprehensive
solution that increases transparency and provides analytical
tools to maximize  investment performance  in the growing
Shariah finance market.  “The Middle East and the UAE have long demonstrated an
impressive rate of growth and a significant market
opportunity for Bloomberg, and we have continued to invest in
the region,” said Peter Grauer, Chairman of Bloomberg L.P.  The announcement was made at Bloomberg client event in Dubai,
where local Government and financial dignitaries, Bloomberg
executives and clients attended an office opening with
keynote address from His Excellency Ahmad Humaid Al Tayer,
Governor of Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC).  H.E. Ahmed Humaid Al Tayer, Governor of DIFC, said, “The launch
of Bloomberg’s new global hub is a testament to the business
and economic fundamentals of Dubai, the Middle East and DIFC.
DIFC is fully committed to facilitating the growth of our
clients by providing them with the support and infrastructure
needed to grow their respective businesses and we are
delighted to see Bloomberg being such a prime example of
this.”  “Our expanded reporting team in the Gulf region is providing
the market-moving news that our customers now expect from
Bloomberg,” said Tim Quinson, Bloomberg News Executive Editor
for  Europe , Middle East and  Africa .  Bloomberg News first began covering the region with a single
desk in Dubai in the 1990s. Today, Bloomberg has bureaus in
eight cities across the region, delivering breaking news on
companies, markets, economies and politics to its growing
audience worldwide.   “We look forward to working closely with local clients to
develop our regional capabilities, delivering enhanced and
responsive analytics, news and data like the recently
launched Bloomberg Islamic Finance platform,” said Max
Linnington, Bloomberg’s regional head.  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg is the world’s most trusted source of information
for financial professionals and businesses. Bloomberg
combines innovative technology with unmatched analytics,
data, news, and display and distribution capabilities, to
deliver critical information via the Bloomberg Professional®
service and multimedia platforms, including Bloomberg
Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets magazines. Bloomberg’s
media properties span television, radio, digital and print,
making up one of the world’s largest news organizations.
Headquartered in  New York , the company employs more than
12,900 people in 166 locations around the world.  Media Contacts:  Pam Snook, Bloomberg LP, +1 212-617-7652,
 pamsnook@bloomberg.net   Sophie Fischman, Cognito-US, +1 646 395 6300,
 Bloomberg@cognitomedia.com   Stuart Macaulay, Cognito-EMEA,
 BloombergEMEA@cognitomedia.com , +44 20 7438 1100  Anne Karumo, Cognito-APAC, +65 811 264 09,
 BloombergAsia@cognitomedia.com   Samer Bassil, Cognito-Dubai, +971 4295 1177, samerb@tamra-
c2.com
 