-- 
Bloomberg Sports Named One of 10 Most Innovative Companies

-- B y  
-- 
2011-03-17T19:06:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/bloomberg-sports-named-one-of-10-most-innovative-companies.html

Press Release  Year-old Division Joins ESPN,  Turner Sports , and Livestrong as
Trailblazers in Fast Company’s “50 Most Innovative Companies”
List  NEW YORK -- Fast Company Magazine has named Bloomberg Sports as
one of the “Ten Most Innovative Companies in Sports,” honoring
the company for its innovation in “crunching the numbers.”  The
Fast Company list includes hallmark brands like ESPN and  Turner
Sports, as well as relative newcomers like the athlete
preparation company Athletes Performance, and dynamic pricing
company Qcue.  Bloomberg Sports launched in December 2009, and has created a
fun, insightful, state of the art way of analyzing statistics
for fans with their “Baseball Front Office” tools for fantasy
baseball and their “Decision Maker” tool for fantasy football.
Front Office 2011, with a number of new features, recently
launched for mobile devices as well as for online use, and is
available at Bloombergsports.com, along with apps for the iPhone
and iPad platforms.  In addition to their fantasy products,
Bloomberg Sports provides professional data analytics, scouting
and video tools to more than half the Major League Baseball
clubs.  “We are very pleased to have been honored by Fast Company for
the innovative work our team has done in building the best
analytic products available for MLB clubs, the media, and for
fantasy baseball and football fans,” said Bill Squadron, head of
Bloomberg Sports. “In just a year, our sports division has risen
to the top of the pack in creating groundbreaking tools for the
sports community that are both valuable and fun, and the best is
yet to come.”  The top ten list included: ESPN, Turner Sports, Livestrong,
Fenway Sports Group, Qcue, the Oklahoma City Thunder, Athletes
Performance, the  Philadelphia Eagles  and the equipment
manufacturer Bite Tech.  The entire piece which is part of Fast
Company’s “50 most innovative companies” list can be seen at
 http://www.fastcompany.com/1738653/the-10-most-innovative -
companies-in-sports  The Bloomberg Sports Front Office 2011 product suite focuses on
translating detailed, data driven calculations into tools that
are both quick and easy to use.  Their newest mobile product,
Front Office 2011 - Draft Kit, is a dynamic fantasy draft kit
which updates throughout spring training making sure users are
always on top of the latest injuries, news, roster moves and
player projections which ensures they have the most decisions
right through the start of baseball season. Traditionally draft
preparation has required in-depth research across multiple
sources, and is often based more on opinion rather than fact.
The Front Office product suite however creates its
recommendations and rankings based on the user’s fantasy
settings tied to their own league, which means tailored advice
that will help them win!  Bloomberg and their partner Roundarch will also introduce
additional mobile applications for in-season use such as Front
Office 2011 - Trade Analyzer.  Front Office 2011 - Draft Kit is
available on iTunes for the iPad or the iPhone.  The web-based
product is available at www.bloombergsports.com/frontoffice.  For more information on Bloomberg Sports, please visit
 http://www.bloombergsports.com  and follow us on Twitter
(@BloombergSports) and Facebook.  For more information on Bloomberg, please visit
 http://www.bloomberg.com/about  and follow us on Twitter
(@BloombergLP) and Facebook.  About Bloomberg Sports  Launched in 2010, Bloomberg Sports takes the technology
developed by Bloomberg, the leading global provider in data and
analytics, and applies them to the vast data analysis
opportunities in sports.  Working with MLB.com and NFL.com,
Bloomberg Sports fantasy products give fans the most powerful
easy to use resources as they draft and manage their fantasy
teams.  Additionally, Bloomberg Sports provides a professional
product that delivers Major League Baseball clubs with a secure,
virtually unlimited set of analytical functions to assist them
in personnel evaluation and game preparation.  For more details,
please visit  http://www.bloombergsports.com .  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg is the world’s most trusted source of information for
financial professionals and businesses.  Bloomberg combines
innovative technology with unmatched analytic, data, news,
display and distribution capabilities, to deliver critical
information via the Bloomberg Professional service and
multimedia platforms.  Bloomberg’s media properties span
television, radio, digital and print, making up one of the
world’s largest news organizations with more than 2,300 news and
multimedia professionals at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Silvia Alvarez, +1 212-617-3707,  salvarez13@bloomberg.net 
