-- 
Bonds Jurors to Be Barred From Texting, Tweeting About Case

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-03-17T21:46:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/bonds-jurors-face-ban-on-texting-tweeting-about-u-s-trial-under-proposal.html
Jurors in baseball player  Barry Bonds ’s March 21 perjury trial will be barred from talking or
texting about the case on Facebook or Twitter or on their
iPhones.  In what jury consultant  Chris St. Hilaire  called an unusual
addition to jury questionnaires, prospective jurors must agree
in writing to an order not to communicate via social media, the
Internet “or any other form of electronic communication for any
purpose whatsoever,” according to a filing yesterday in federal
court in San Francisco.  The questionnaire was handed to potential jurors today
ahead of the March 21 jury selection. Bonds’s lawyers and
federal prosecutors agreed to the rule.  “I haven’t seen it used before, and it’s a recognition of
the new world we live in now,” St. Hilaire, president of  Jury
Impact , a consulting company based in  Costa Mesa ,  California ,
said in a telephone interview. The lawyers “are trying to be
specific because they know how influential social media is
now,” he said.  Bonds, the Major League Baseball home-run record holder,
will face a federal jury next week on charges that he lied when
he told a grand jury in 2003 that he never knowingly took
steroids. Bonds has pleaded not guilty.  Questionnaires that ask about work, family, and knowledge
of the case are used to assist in jury selection. They typically
require signatures confirming truthful answers and admonish
jurors not to talk about the case.  Taking Order Seriously  Asking would-be jurors to promise in writing to stay off  Facebook  and warning them about penalties is unusual and shows
lawyers’ concerns that people take the order seriously, St.
Hilaire said.  “This means that I promise not to converse” about the
case on Facebook, MySpace, Twitter, BlackBerry messaging,
iPhones, Google and Yahoo, the questionnaire says. “I further
understand that if I were to violate this order I could be held
in contempt of court which is punishable by jail and/or monetary
fine,” the document says in bold.  Tweeting and Facebook postings by jurors in cases around
the country have led to requests to overturn verdicts.  The questionnaire asks potential jurors their views on
regulation of steroid use, knowledge of steroid use by athletes,
attendance at  San Francisco  Giants games and opinions about
Bonds.  U.S. District Judge  Susan Illston , who will preside over
the trial, has ordered that the names of the jurors chosen to
hear the case be kept under seal until the case is completed so
they can’t be contacted or harassed.  Allen Ruby, an attorney for Bonds, declined to comment.
Jeff Nedrow, assistant U.S. attorney prosecuting the case,
declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  