-- 
Brazil Said to Lean Toward Tax to Curb Capital Inflows as Currency Climbs

-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 
2011-03-17T15:48:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/brazil-said-to-lean-toward-tax-to-curb-inflows-from-bonds-to-aid-currency.html
  Brazil  is leaning toward raising
taxes to curb fixed-income inflows as it weighs measures to stem
currency gains, said a government official briefed on the
discussions.  An increase in the so-called IOF tax has broad support
among President Dilma Rousseff’s economic team, said the
official, who asked not to be identified because the talks
aren’t public. The government is considering reinstating a tax
on bond sales overseas by Brazilian companies as well as a tax
increase on foreign purchases of local bonds, the official said.
There’s less support within the cabinet for a proposal to
require foreign investment in stocks to stay in the country for
a set period of time, said the person.  The real’s 37 percent against the  U.S. dollar  in the past
two years is the second-best performance among 25 emerging
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the  South Africa ’s
rand. The real gained 0.4 percent today to 1.6694 to the dollar
at 12:21 p.m. in  Sao Paulo  (11:21 a.m. New York), reducing this
year’s loss to 0.5 percent. The real touched 1.6424 per dollar
on March 4, the strongest level since August 2008.  Brazil received a net inflow of $7.4 billion from trade and
financial investments this month through March 11, the central
bank said yesterday, more than the inflow for the whole of
February. Foreign investment into local markets was $6.9 billion
while $510 million come in from trade.  The government is unlikely to announce any currency
measures in the coming days as markets remain volatile in the
aftermath of  Japan ’s deadly 9.0-magnitude earthquake and unrest
in the Middle East, said the person.  Tax Tripled  An official at the  Finance Ministry ’s press office in
Brasilia declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News.  The government tripled a tax on foreign investors’ fixed-
income purchases to 6 percent in October as part of the effort
to stem gains in the real. In January, the central bank set  reserve requirements  on short dollar positions held by local
banks and separately bought dollars in the futures market for
the first time in 21 months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  