-- 
Brazil Said to Lean Toward Tax to Curb Capital Inflows as Currency Climbs

-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-03-17T17:03:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/brazil-said-to-lean-toward-tax-to-curb-capital-inflows-as-currency-climbs.html
  Brazil  is leaning toward raising
taxes to curb fixed-income inflows as it tries to stem currency
gains, said a government official briefed on the discussions.  An increase in the so-called IOF tax has broad support
among President  Dilma Rousseff ’s economic team, said the
official, who asked not to be identified because the talks
aren’t public. The government is considering reinstating a tax
on bond sales overseas by Brazilian companies as well as a tax
increase on foreign purchases of local bonds, the official said.  There’s less support within the cabinet for a proposal to
require foreign investment in stocks to stay in the country for
a set period of time, said the person.  The real, whose 38 percent gain against the  U.S. dollar 
since the start of 2009 is the best performance among 25
emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, pared gains
after the announcement. The currency rose 0.1 percent today to
1.6733 per dollar at 12:16 p.m.  New York . Earlier it gained as
much as 0.6 percent. The currency touched 1.6424 per dollar on
March 4, the strongest level since August 2008.  “The Central Bank appears to be doing all they can--they
are in the  spot market , they are doing forwards, swaps,”
Gustavo Rangel, chief Brazil economist for ING Financial Markets
in New York, said in a telephone interview. “The only thing
left for them to do is to raise the IOF again.”  The government is unlikely to announce any currency
measures in the coming days as markets remain volatile in the
aftermath of  Japan ’s deadly 9.0-magnitude earthquake and unrest
in the Middle East, said the person. The  Finance Ministry ’s
press office in Brasilia declined to comment.  Inflows Rising  Brazil received a net inflow of $7.4 billion from trade and
financial investments this month through March 11, the central
bank said yesterday. That matches the inflow for all of
February. Foreign investment into local markets was $6.9 billion
while $510 million come in from trade.  Brazilian banks have increased funding abroad by 40 percent
so far this year. Overseas bond sales and funding abroad in
January rose to $2.9 billion, from $2.1 billion in January of
last year, according to the most recent central bank data. Such
funding accounted for 95 percent of all funding sought by
Brazilian companies abroad, the central bank said.  Tax Tripled  The government tripled a tax on foreign investors’ fixed-
income purchases to 6 percent in October as part of the effort
to stem gains in the real. Since start of the year, the central
bank has bought $20 billion in the  spot currency market  equal to
almost half of the $41 billion they bought in 2010.  In January, the central bank also set  reserve requirements 
on short dollar positions held by local banks and separately
bought dollars in the futures market for the first time in 21
months.  Inflows are being drawn to Brazil by inflation-adjusted
interest rates of 5.7 percent that are the highest in the Group
of 20 nations. The central bank this month raised its overnight
Selic rate for the second straight meeting to 11.75 percent.  Traders are betting policy makers will raise borrowing
costs 0.5 percentage point for a third time this year at their
April 19-20 policy meeting, according to Bloomberg estimates
based on interest rate futures.  Annual inflation quickened to 6.01 percent in February, the
fastest pace since November 2008. The central bank targets
inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  Brazil’s inflation may slow to 0.45 percent in March from
0.8 percent in February, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Joshua Goodman  at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  