-- 
Britain Shouldn’t Be Deterred From Building Reactors, EDF Says

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-03-17T17:46:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/britain-shouldn-t-be-deterred-from-building-reactors-edf-says.html
The disaster at the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi atomic plant in  Japan  shouldn’t stop Britain from building
new nuclear power stations, Electricite de France SA’s U.K.
Chief Executive Officer Vincent de Rivaz said.  “We should not, at this stage, make snap decisions about
existing nuclear power stations until all the facts are known,”
de Rivaz said in a statement today. “Nor should we reach hasty
decisions about nuclear new build.”  EDF wants to complete the first of four new reactors at
Hinkley Point in southwest  England  by 2018. Other companies
considering building nuclear power stations in the U.K. include
RWE AG and E.ON AG, as well as Iberdrola SA and Scottish &
Southern Energy Plc.  EDF is checking back-up systems and organizing refresher
courses for British employees, de Rivaz said. Other actions
being taken by the company include reviewing emergency plans and
setting arrangements to incorporate lessons learned from events
in Japan into the utility’s safety plans. The Paris-based
company is also making arrangements to send 100 metric tons of
boric acid to Japan, as well as iodate tablets, he said.  Before the earthquake and tsunami in Japan that led to the
Fukushima calamity, the U.K. government had begun an assessment
of the country’s energy regulation in an effort to accelerate
investment in nuclear and renewable energy projects. Measures
being considered include a floor price on  carbon emissions  and
guaranteeing long-term prices for low-carbon generators.    Chris Huhne , Britain’s energy minister, said on March 14
that he asked Mike Weightman, the country’s chief nuclear
inspector, to report on the implications of Japan’s nuclear
situation. The government will release an interim report
following Weightman’s investigation in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 