-- 
Gonzaga Beats St. John’s in NCAA as Kentucky Avoids Upset to Princeton

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-03-18T05:44:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/butler-west-virginia-win-as-ncaa-basketball-tournament-gets-under-way.html
Gonzaga University played
spoiler in  St. John’s  University’s return to the national
men’s college basketball tournament after a nine-year
absence.  Gonzaga, seeded 11th in the Southeast Region, knocked
off sixth-seeded St. John’s 86-71 in the last of
yesterday’s three upsets in Denver, where No. 13 Morehead
State shocked Louisville 62-61 and No. 12 Richmond ousted
Vanderbilt 69-66.  “They’ve had a wonderful year,” Gonzaga coach Mark Few said of St. John’s. “But I couldn’t be happier for our
guys to move on and get another chance to play again.”  University of Kentucky coach John Calipari heaved a
sigh of relief after his Wildcats escaped with a 59-57 win
against  Princeton University  yesterday in Tampa, Florida,
to avoid their biggest upset loss in a record 51 trips to
the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament.  Thirteen of yesterday’s 16 games were won by
favorites, including double-digit victories by Pittsburgh,
Florida, San Diego State, Brigham Young,  Connecticut  and  Wisconsin .  Morehead State pulled the tournament’s first major
upset as a 10 1/2-point underdog. The Morehead, Kentucky-
based school beat two-time national champion and Southwest
Region No. 4 seed Louisville on a 3-pointer with 4.2
seconds left.  Big East Record  Gonzaga capped the day by beating St. John’s, one of
a record 11 teams in the tournament from the Big East
Conference. The Spokane, Washington-based Bulldogs, making
their 13th straight NCAA tournament appearance, held a 41-
18 rebounding advantage and hit 54 percent of their shots.  Gonzaga advances to play Brigham Young, the No. 3 seed
in the Southeast, which beat Wofford 74-66 behind a 32-
point performance by Jimmer Fredette, the nation’s leading
scorer.  “I’m just excited we’re able to live another day,”
Fredette said after hitting 10 of 25 shots.  Pittsburgh was the only No. 1 regional seed in action
yesterday, beating the University of North Carolina-
Asheville 74-51 in the Southeast Regional. The other three
top seeds begin tournament play today, when 16 more games
are scheduled.  Ohio State, the No. 1 seed in the East region, meets
Texas-San Antonio in  Cleveland , and Southwest top seed  Kansas  plays  Boston University  in Tulsa,  Oklahoma .
Defending champion Duke, the top team in the West, meets
Hampton University in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  Butler Advances  Butler University, which lost to Duke in last year’s
NCAA tournament championship game, advanced yesterday with
a 60-58 win against Old Dominion on Matt Howard’s layup as
time expired. Eighth-seeded Butler next faces Pittsburgh.  Seventh-seeded Temple University also won in the final
second, beating 10th-seeded Penn State 66-64 on a contested
jump shot by Juan Fernandez with 0.4 seconds on the clock.  The Owls move on to a matchup with No. 2 San Diego
State, which beat Northern Colorado 68-50 in Tucson,  Arizona , for the first tournament win in school history.    Florida , the No. 2 seed in the Southeast, routed
California-Santa Barbara 79-51 and will face No. 7 UCLA,
which held off No. 10 Michigan State 78-76 in Tampa.  Southeast No. 4 seed Wisconsin beat Belmont 72-58 in
Tucson and next plays No. 5 Kansas State, a 73-68 winner
against Utah State.  Huskies Cruise  Big East tournament champion Connecticut, seeded third
in the West, rolled past Bucknell 81-52 in  Washington  as
Kemba Walker had 18 points and 12 assists. The Huskies, who
are 16-1 in tournament openers since 1990, advance to play
Cincinnati, which defeated Missouri 78-63. Connecticut’s
29-point margin of victory was the biggest in yesterday’s
games.  “I didn’t think it was going to be this easy,
especially when I was back in my hotel room watching all
the games, watching some upsets,” said Connecticut’s
Alex Oriakhi, who scored nine points. “I was a little bit
nervous, to be honest. I’m just happy we pulled it off and
we won by a lot.”    Kentucky  fought past Princeton on Brandon Knight’s
driving layup with two seconds left and next plays  West
Virginia , which rallied for an 84-76 victory against
Clemson.  Darius Miller scored 17 points and Josh Harrellson
added 15 as Kentucky overcame a five-point second-half
deficit against the Ivy League’s tournament representative.  While Princeton came up short, Morehead State’s win
means a 13th seed has now won in 20 of the last 27 NCAA
tournaments.  Thanks to Richmond, No. 12 seeds have pulled at least
one upset in 21 of the last 23 tournaments. Morehead State
and Richmond will play in the next round.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  