-- 
Buy Energy-Stock Calls on Rising Oil, Goldman Sachs Says

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-03-17T20:29:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/buy-calls-on-energy-stocks-on-rising-oil-goldman-sachs-says.html
Investors should buy  call options 
on oil producers such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) 
because they are poised to rally amid “strong” global demand
for crude, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  Derivatives strategists John Marshall and Katherine Fogertey recommended buying Exxon’s October $80 calls and
Chevron’s September $100 calls. They said to use the same
strategy on nine other  oil companies . Irving, Texas-based Exxon
gained 2.3 percent to $81.16 today, and Chevron of  San Ramon ,  California , increased 2.7 percent to $102.24.  “Volatility is likely to remain high, and we expect strong
global demand to drive  oil prices  and stocks higher,” the
strategists wrote in a note today. “Calls on energy stocks have
lagged” behind as calls on oil options have jumped, the
strategists said.  Oil rose 3.5 percent, the most in three weeks, after the
U.S. signaled it favored allowing foreign intervention against
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s forces. Bahrain declared a
three-month state of emergency on March 15. UBS AG raised its
2011  Brent crude  forecast because of the turmoil. Analysts at
Nomura Holdings said  Japan ’s oil demand may jump by 171,000
barrels a day as the country seeks alternative sources of power
and rebuilds in the wake of the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  ‘Increasingly Cheap’  Call options prices on large oil companies remain “at the
lower end of historical ranges,” the note said, and calls have
been “increasingly cheap relative to puts” while call implied
volatility on energy stocks has risen “modestly.” Earnings for
the nine selected companies will increase by 51 percent, Goldman
Sachs analysts projected. Marshall and Fogertey said they think
the basket of calls could offer a 300 percent return.  “We find that during this part of the business cycle
energy stocks tend to outperform and energy implied volatility
tends to outperform as energy demand grows quickly, but supply
is less responsive,” the strategists wrote. “We believe this
call buying strategy offers strong risk-reward as it implicitly
targets risk-adjusted returns.”  Calls give the right to buy 100 shares of a security for a
certain amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the
right to sell. Investors use options to guard against
fluctuations in the price of securities they own, speculate on
share-price moves or bet that volatility, or stock swings, will
rise or fall.  Below is a list of the trades that Goldman Sachs recommended.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  