-- 
Californians Back Limits on Public Pension Benefits, Poll Shows

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-03-17T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/californians-back-limits-on-public-pension-benefits-poll-shows.html
California voters support limits on
public-employee pensions by a 3-to-1 margin, according to the
 Field Poll .  Seventy-three percent of those surveyed favor a cap on the
amount of salary used to calculate pension benefits, compared
with 20 percent opposed, according to the statewide survey by
Field and the  University of California , Berkeley, released
today. Forty-two percent said the pensions are “too generous,”
up from 32 percent two years ago.  “California voters have changed their views in recent
years about the pension benefits of state and government
workers,” Mark DiCamillo and Mervin Field of San Francisco-
based Field Research Corp., said in a statement. In 2009, “more
voters believed that the level of pension benefits that most
public workers received was acceptable.”  Public pensions have become a flash point across the U.S.
as the cost of benefits has risen and government revenue has
fallen after the longest recession since the 1930s.    San Francisco ’s annual pension costs will double to $1
billion in five years, topping what it now spends on police,
fire and other public-safety departments, according to a report
by San Franciscans for Pension Reform on March 15.  Voters by wide margins support other changes to public
pensions, such as requiring higher worker contributions,
increasing the minimum  retirement age  and adding elements of a
401(k)-style plan that would reduce guaranteed payments,
according to the poll.  Only 26 percent would back a temporary tax increase to pay
benefits owed, while 67 percent opposed that notion.  Collective Bargaining  Voters rejected, 50 percent to 42 percent, the idea of
combining budget-balancing measures with taking away collective
bargaining rights for government workers, such as in  Wisconsin .
Republican state senators had suggested linking their support
for Governor  Jerry Brown ’s proposed tax extension to pension
reforms.  The telephone survey of 898 registered voters was conducted
in English and Spanish Feb. 28-March 14, with a margin of error
of plus or minus 3.4 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  