-- 
California Lawmakers Slice $7 Billion, Refuse Brown Cuts to Redevelopment

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-03-17T05:57:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/california-lawmakers-refuse-redevelopment-cut-trim-7-billion-from-budget.html
  California  lawmakers turned down
Governor Jerry Brown’s bid to abolish more than 400 local
redevelopment agencies, a $5 billion pillar of his plan to erase
the largest state deficit in the U.S.  Legislators agreed to $7.4 billion of $12.5 billion in cuts
Brown proposed to help bridge a $26.6 billion shortfall
yesterday. Redevelopment and the cornerstone of his budget, a
referendum to extend $9.3 billion of tax increases, were the
subjects of private meetings between the governor and
Republicans that went late into last night.  “These cuts show a lot of guts and concern for the well-
being of the state,” Brown said after the Senate and Assembly
adjourned. “But we have a long way to go.” Lawmakers are due
to return today.  Brown, a 72-year-old Democrat, took office in January on a
pledge to repair the financial strains that have left
California, the most populous state, with the lowest  credit
rating . He’s said he’ll cut another $10 billion if the tax
increases, which are due to expire, aren’t extended.  A linchpin of his plan calls for closing more than 400
redevelopment agencies across the state, to divert their revenue
to schools and local governments. The proposal fell short by one
vote in the Assembly, and can be reintroduced.  The agencies, established to eliminate blight, receive any
increase in property-tax revenue that results from their
efforts, money that would otherwise go to local schools and
government.  Education, Health Care  Brown would use $2.2 billion of the redevelopment money to
pay off debt. He would devote the rest, almost $3 billion freed
up by shutting the agencies, to education, health care and the
courts. The state ordinarily sends $1.7 billion to schools to
make up for property taxes given to development agencies.  “We said we wanted to deal with the deficit, we need to
make cuts,” Senate President Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg, a
Democrat from  Sacramento , told reporters. “It’s a several-day
process.”  The governor’s tax plan needs two-thirds support in both
chambers. Democrats hold majorities in each, but not enough for
the supermajority. If the tax issue fails, Brown has said he’d
slash a third of the state’s general-fund spending. Of that,
almost half would be from social services and welfare programs.  The budget already slices $1.4 billion from the state’s
prized universities and community colleges, and scales back
adult daycare subsidies, limits doctor visits paid by Medi-Cal,
the state’s version of the Medicaid health program for the poor,
and curtails vision care for low-income children.  Years of Shortfalls  With an economy bigger than  Russia ’s, California has fought
a combined $100 billion of shortfalls in the past three years.
U.S. governors face deficits totaling as much as $112 billion in
the coming fiscal year, according to the Washington-based Center
on Budget & Policy Priorities.  California shares with Illinois the lowest credit rating of
any state from Moody’s Investors Service. The A1 grade is
Moody’s fifth-highest. Standard & Poor’s rates California A-,
its fourth-lowest level for investment-quality securities, the
worst among the states.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  