-- 
Ways and Means Chairman to Push Tax Rate Cut to 25 Percent

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-03-17T19:38:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/camp-suggests-top-individual-corporate-tax-rates-of-25-percent.html
The chairman of the tax-writing
U.S. House  Ways and Means Committee  wants to lower the top
individual and corporate tax rates to 25 percent from 35
percent, his spokeswoman said.  Representative David Camp, a Michigan Republican, “will
push for a top rate of 25 percent for corporate and individual
tax rates,” Michelle Dimarob, the committee’s spokeswoman, said
in an e-mail yesterday.  Camp has long discussed an overhaul of the tax system that
would involve lowering rates and broadening the tax base, and
his committee has begun holding hearings on the subject.  “I really just want to set a goal out there and start the
discussions and talk about everything,” Camp told reporters
today.  He hasn’t advanced a specific proposal, presented a
timeline for action or said which tax breaks would be eliminated
as part of an overhaul of the Internal Revenue Service code.  Until now, Camp hadn’t identified a specific target for the
top rate. The Wall Street Journal reported his plans yesterday.    Tax Code  Overhaul  Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  said today
that he supports a corporate rate cut, combined with the
elimination of deductions and exclusions, to help U.S. companies
compete against overseas rivals. The Montana Democrat didn’t
identify a specific rate. Baucus also wouldn’t comment on Camp’s
25 percent target rate for individuals.  “That’s a whole separate subject,” he said. “As I said,
I’m only addressing corporate.”  In his State of the Union address on Jan. 25, President  Barack Obama  said he wants to lower the corporate tax rate and
broaden the base and that he is open to discussions about the
individual tax code. Obama has said any cut in the corporate
rate must be accompanied by reducing or eliminating tax breaks,
so that an overhaul wouldn’t increase the  budget deficit .  Republicans, including Camp, have said discussions about
revamping the corporate and individual codes should occur
together, in part because many businesses are taxed at
individual rates and would suffer if they lost deductions
without a corresponding rate drop.  Dimarob said that to achieve the goal of a 25 percent tax
rate, “Camp will seek to eliminate necessary deductions to
ensure American families and employers of all sizes have a tax
code that is simpler, provides more certainty, and unlocks the  job creation  we need to move the economy forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  