-- 
Canadian Currency Gains Most in Month as Crude Oil Climbs, Data Show Gains

-- B y   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-17T21:20:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/canadian-currency-advances-as-crude-climbs-g-7-officials-to-meet-on-japan.html
  Canada ’s dollar gained the most in
a month versus its U.S. counterpart as commodities including
crude oil climbed and government data bolstered speculation the
economic recovery is gaining momentum.  The Canadian currency snapped a three-day decline, its
longest losing streak in seven weeks, amid speculation Group of
Seven officials will act to calm markets roiled by Japan’s
nuclear crisis. The greenback fell against 10 of its 16 most-
traded peers.  “We’re seeing crude come back on board,” said Greg Salvaggio, senior vice president of capital markets at the
currency trader Tempus Consulting Inc. in  Washington . “People
are putting risk back on their books today. Unfortunately, the
U.S. dollar is on the wrong side of the trade.”  Canada’s currency, known as the loonie for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.7 percent to 98.48
cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from 99.14 cents
yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0154.  The loonie gained as much as 0.8 percent against the U.S.
dollar, the biggest intraday jump since Feb. 11, when political
unrest in  Egypt  led to the resignation of President  Hosni Mubarak  and spurred investor appetite for the safety of North
American assets.  Commodities Climb  Crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, rose for a second day
today on concern Mideast and North African turmoil may disrupt
supplies. Crude for April delivery increased 3.8 percent to
$101.70 a barrel in New York after touching a two-week low of
$96.22 on March 16 amid speculation the Japanese earthquake
would damp demand.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of  raw materials 
climbed as much as 3.3 percent, the most on an intraday basis
since August 2009. Raw materials including oil account for about
half of Canada’s export revenue.  The loonie fell 0.2 percent versus the euro to C$1.3810 and
dropped for a sixth day versus the Japanese currency, its
longest losing streak since November 2009, losing 0.2 percent to
80.10 yen. The Japanese currency surged to a post-World War II
high versus the greenback amid speculation local insurers and
investors are redeeming overseas assets to pay for earthquake
damages and reconstruction.  Canada’s dollar dropped 0.3 percent over the past month in
a basket of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The yen surged
5.6 percent, while the greenback lost 0.4 percent.  G-7 finance ministers are scheduled to begin a
teleconference at 6 p.m.  New York  time to discuss the threat to
Japan, the world’s third-largest economy, from last week’s
earthquake and tsunami and a worsening crisis at a damaged
nuclear power station.    Australia ,  New Zealand   The Canadian dollar outperformed the currencies of other
countries that export commodities, including Australia and New
Zealand. The Australian dollar weakened against 14 of its 16
major peers, and the  New Zealand dollar  fell versus all of them.  “The Aussie has the potential to be particularly impacted
by things going on from the Japanese side, and that’s not really
the case for the Canadian dollar,” said Jens Nordvig, a
managing director of currency research in New York at Nomura
Holdings Inc.    Japan  is Australia’s second-largest trade partner. Canada’s
biggest is the U.S.  The loonie also gained as Statistics Canada data showed
foreigners bought a net C$13.3 billion ($13.4 billion) of
Canadian securities in January, including C$10.1 billion of
federal  government bonds . The total was more than double the $6
billion forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Consumer Prices  Canadian wholesale sales rose 1.5 percent to C$46.7 billion
in January, the sixth straight month, Statistics Canada said
today in Ottawa, compared with the 0.6 percent gain forecast in
another Bloomberg survey.  Consumer prices rose 2.3 percent in February from a year
earlier, matching January’s pace, according to the median
estimate of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg before  Statistics Canada  reports the data tomorrow.  The  Bank of Canada  reiterated on March 1, as it kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged at 1 percent, that underlying
inflation pressures are “subdued” and that “considerable
slack” remains in the economy.  Canadian government bonds fell today, pushing the yield on
the benchmark 10-year note up five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 3.18 percent. The yield touched 3.12
percent on March 15, the lowest level since Jan. 4. The price of
the 3.5 percent security maturing in June 2020 decreased 42
cents to C$102.54.  Canada will auction C$3.2 billion ($3.3 billion) of three-
year notes on March 23, according to a statement on the Bank of
Canada’s website. The 2 percent securities mature in March 2014.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of stocks rose for the
first time in four days, gaining 1.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexandra Harris in New York at 
 Aharris48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  