-- 
Canada January International Securities Transactions (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-03-17T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/canada-january-international-securities-transactions-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada's international transactions report for January
released by  Statistics Canada .  Non-resident investors added a further $13.3 billion of
Canadian securities to their holdings in January, led by
increased acquisitions of Canadian bonds. For their part,
Canadian investors purchased $2.0 billion of foreign
securities over the same period, mainly US stocks.  Non-resident investors strengthen position in federal  government securities   Acquisitions of Canadian bonds by foreign investors
amounted to $10.1 billion in January, following a record
high investment of $95.9 billion in 2010. Federal
government bonds accounted for just over half of this
activity in January, largely Government of Canada two-year
benchmark bonds.  Non-residents resumed investment in provincial bonds,
purchasing $1.8 billion in January, mainly new short-term
bonds denominated in US dollars. Foreign investors also
acquired private corporate and government enterprise
bonds, targeting short-term bonds. In January, yields on
short-term Canadian bonds stood above their US
counterparts while the opposite held for longer-term
bonds. The Canadian dollar remained near par with the US
dollar over the month.  Non-residents added a further $1.9 billion of Canadian
money market instruments to their portfolios in January, a
third straight month of strong investment. Despite a
significant decline in the overall amount of federal
government Treasury bills outstanding, non-residents
acquired $1.0 billion of these securities in the month.  Foreign investment in Canadian stocks continues  Non-residents have accumulated Canadian stocks for six
consecutive months, buying $1.3 billion in January. This
was comprised of secondary market transactions and focused
on indexed funds tracking equity prices of large Canadian
companies. In January, Canadian equity prices were up for
a seventh month in a row.  Canadian investment in foreign debt favours short-term
securities  Canadian investors purchased $551 million of US
Treasury bills, following two consecutive months of
divestment totalling $2.5 billion. On the other hand,
Canadians trimmed their holdings of non-US foreign paper
for the first time since June 2010.  On the long-term side, Canadians reduced their holdings
of foreign bonds by $319 million in January, following two
months of investment. This divestment was nearly all in US  government bonds , as sales of short-term bonds more than
offset acquisitions of long-term bonds.  Canadian investors return to foreign stocks  Following three months of divestment, Canadians
acquired foreign stocks in January, adding $1.8 billion to
their portfolios. A diverse group of US stocks accounted
for all of the outflows. In January, US equity prices
continued their uptrend and reached their highest level
since May 2008.  Note to readers  All values in this release are net transactions unless
otherwise stated.  The data series on international security transactions
cover portfolio transactions in stocks, bonds and money
market instruments for both Canadian and foreign issues.  Stocks include common and preferred equities, as well
as warrants.  Debt securities include bonds and money market
instruments.  Bonds have an original term to maturity of more than
one year.  Money market instruments have an original term to
maturity of one year or less.  Government of  Canada  paper includes treasury bills and
US-dollar Canada bills.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  