-- 
Canada January Wholesale Trade Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-03-17T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/canada-january-wholesale-trade-report-text-.html
The following is the text
of  Canada 's wholesale trade report for January from  Statistics Canada .  Wholesale sales rose by 1.5% in January to $46.7
billion, mainly as a result of higher sales in the motor
vehicle and parts and the miscellaneous subsectors.  In volume terms, wholesale sales were up 1.6% in
January.  Widespread gains in wholesale sales  Wholesale sales increased for the sixth consecutive
month in January, with five of the seven subsectors
advancing, representing nearly 80% of total wholesale
sales.  The motor vehicle and parts subsector (+4.9%) posted
the largest increase. Sales in that subsector rose to $7.9
billion in January, the highest level since June 2007.  The advance in the motor vehicle and parts subsector in
January was entirely a result of the 7.0% sales increase
among motor vehicle wholesalers.  Sales in the miscellaneous subsector rose for the
eighth month in a row, increasing by 3.7% in January,
mainly as a result of higher sales in the recyclable
material and other miscellaneous industries.  The building material and supplies subsector increased
by 2.6%, stimulated by higher sales in the lumber,
millwork, hardware and other building supplies industry.  The machinery, equipment and supplies and the farm
products subsectors posted the only declines in January.  The machinery, equipment and supplies subsector
decreased by 2.0% in January, primarily as a result of
lower sales in the computer and communications equipment
and supplies industry. This drop followed strong sales
gains in 2010.  Sales up in most provinces  Sales were up in seven provinces in January. Ontario
contributed the most to the national increase, followed by  Quebec  and British Columbia.  Wholesale sales in Ontario rose by 1.5% to $23.7
billion in January, mainly as a result of increased sales
of motor vehicles.  In Quebec, wholesale sales rose by 2.2% in January, the
third consecutive increase after a period of four months
when sales remained virtually unchanged.  Sales increased in British Columbia by 2.8% in January,
following a 0.2% increase in December.  In  Alberta , sales were down as a result of lower sales
of machinery, equipment and supplies. Wholesale sales in
the province declined 0.8% to $5.5 billion in January.  Increased inventories  Inventories rose by 1.8% in January to $53.7 billion.
This was the largest monthly increase since January 2007.  Overall, 18 of the 25 industries registered an increase
in their inventories.  The largest advance (in dollars) was in the inventories
of the other miscellaneous industry (+10.2%), followed by
the lumber, millwork, hardware and other building supplies
industry (+2.7%).  The inventory-to-sales ratio remained unchanged at 1.15
in January.  The inventory-to-sales ratio is a measure of the time
in months required to exhaust inventories if sales were to
remain at their current level.  Note to readers  All the data in this release are seasonally adjusted
and in current dollars, unless otherwise noted.  Wholesale sales expressed in volume are calculated by
deflating current dollar values using import and industry
product price indexes. Since many of the goods sold by
wholesalers are imported, fluctuations in the value of the
Canadian dollar can have an important influence on the
prices of goods bought and sold by wholesalers.  The wholesale sales series in chained (2002) dollars is
a chained Fisher volume index with 2002 as the reference
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  