-- 
Cheapo ‘Spidermusical’ Flies Higher Than Bono’s Broadway Epic

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-03-17T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/cheapo-spidermusical-flies-higher-than-bono-s-broadway-epic.html
As you may know, the $70-million-
and-counting “ Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark ” didn’t open in
Times Square on Tuesday night as scheduled.  That delighted the folks behind the roughly $15,000
(nobody’s counting) “ Spidermusical ,” which takes place around
the corner from the  Foxwoods Theatre , where a new team is taking
a jackhammer to the afflicted, eternally previewing spectacle.  In “Spidermusical,” all flying is represented by a tiny toy
figure painted red suspended on a zip-line a few feet over the
stage.  But most of the stunts are left to our imagination, as
characters are seen marveling at the off-stage sight of Spider-
one -- his name here -- battling foes.  And when Spider-one shoots his web tendrils, they emanate
not from his hands but from his crotch. (The actor, Alex
Brightman, outfitted in red PJs, turns his back to the audience
during the heroic emission.)  The appealing 70-minute off-Broadway jape plays up the
platonic relationship between Peter Parker and Mary Jane (here
called Peter Partker and Mary Joan), who sing about being stuck
in the “friend zone.” It updates the plot from the 1962 comic
book, with Peter working not for the Daily Bugle but as an
intern for the gossipy website  Gawker .  Celebrating at Sardi’s after the first performance of the
one-week run, the “Spidermusical” team called their creation
an opportunistically timed alternative, not a spoof of the show
whose latest opening date is June 14 (and counting).  ‘So Boring’  “For all the money they spent, it was so boring,” said
Brightman, 24. “We at least tried to have a story that has
heart.” The best “Spider-Man” seats go for $275.
“Spidermusical” tickets are $257 less.  While its budget is less than .02 percent of “Spider-
Man,” “Spidermusical” is apparently lavish relative to “The
Spidey Project,” which held two performances on March 14 at the
 Peoples Improv Theater . It trumpeted its budget as zero.  The book of “Spidermusical” was written in about a week
by Randy Blair and Timothy Michael Drucker, both 27. They met as
undergraduates at  New York University  and share a background in
sketch comedy. Their research consisted of reading about
“Spider-Man: Turn off the Dark” on Wikipedia. Matt Roi Berger,
with whom they collaborated on “Fat Camp,” which played at the
2009  New York Musical Theatre Festival , composed the music.  “Before we do a project, we ask how much attention will we
get,” said Drucker, who doubles as director. “We knew we could
put on a great show.”  Brian Fenty, 26, who works in private equity and attended
musical theater summer camp with Drucker, put up the money and
is credited as producer. “Spider-Man” was plagued by actor
injuries; “Spidermusical” was nearly undone by a mini flu
epidemic that struck the cast during its two week rehearsal
period.  Its creators are hopeful the show will have another life
following the current run. Perhaps off Broadway or, as Drucker
cheekily suggested, at the Foxwoods in late April and early May,
when “Spider-Man” takes a hiatus from previews for the cast
and crew to rehearse changes.    New York  is hungry for spider musicals!” Drucker said.  Rick Miramontez, a spokesman for “Spider-Man,” laughed
over the phone when told about the liberties “Spidermusical”
takes with the “Spider-Man” franchise.  “The Foxwoods Theatre is not available,” he said.  Through March 21 at the Mint Theater, 311 W. 43rd St.
Information: +1-212-352-3101;  http://www.theatermania.com   To contact the writer on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 