-- 
Chile Unexpectedly Raises Overnight Rate to 4% as CPI Expectations Surge

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-03-17T21:44:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/chile-unexpectedly-raises-overnight-rate-to-4-as-cpi-expectations-surge.html
Chilean policy makers unexpectedly
accelerated the pace of interest rate increases today as
inflation expectations expand beyond the central bank’s target
and economic activity exceeds estimates.  The five-member policy board, led by bank President Jose  De Gregorio , raised the overnight rate by a half-point to 4
percent, matching the forecast of three of 22 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The remaining 19 analysts forecast a
quarter-point increase for the second straight month.  The central bank estimates the economy may increase at its
fastest pace in more than a decade this year after it exceeded
growth estimates in January. Today’s decision is designed to
control inflation expectations even as concerns about the global
economic fallout of Japan’s earthquake mount, Jorge Selaive,
chief economist at Banco de Credito & Inversiones, said.  “The central bank is interpreting the international stage
as neutral in terms of inflation,” Selaive, who forecast a
quarter-point increase, said in a telephone interview from
Santiago before the decision was released. “It is putting more
emphasis on anchoring inflation expectations.”  Chilean traders and investors estimated this month that
annual inflation would exceed the central bank’s target. Annual
inflation will reach 4.48 percent in 12 months, according to the
median estimate in the March 9 survey, up from the 4 percent
forecast in the Feb. 23 survey.  Inflation Target  Policy makers target annual inflation of 3 percent with a
range of tolerance of plus or minus 1 percentage point over a
two-year horizon.  “The increase in international prices of raw materials,
particularly oil, has provoked an increase in short-term private
inflation expectations,” the central bank said in a statement
accompanying today’s decision.  Inflation expectations also have increased since the
central bank announced on Jan. 3 plans to buy $12 billion in
U.S. dollars to increase international reserves and weaken the
peso. A stronger dollar can increase the cost of imports.  One-year breakeven inflation, which reflects traders’
expectations of average price increases, grew to 4.52 percent
today from 3.4 percent on Jan. 3. Bloomberg’s commodity index
has risen 3.8 percent over the same period to 270.49 today while
the peso has depreciated 4.3 percent.    Chile ’s economy could grow as fast as 6.5 percent this year
after expanding 5.2 percent in 2010, according to central bank
forecasts. The central bank tomorrow will publish revised data
for last year’s economic growth and in April will make new
forecasts on economic activity and inflation for 2011.  Economic activity expanded a faster-than-forecast 6.8
percent in January from the previous year, the quickest pace of
monthly growth since August, the central bank reported March 7.  “Activity, demand and employment continue to evolve
positively,” the central bank said in today’s statement.  Chilean authorities have downplayed the impact of Japan’s
earthquake and ensuing tsunami on the South American country’s
economy.  Japan  is Chile’s second-biggest export market behind  China .  ‘Repercussions’  “With regards to the repercussions on the local economy,
all the scenarios we’ve seen indicate that they will be limited,
so we’re at ease,” Finance Minister Felipe Larrain told
reporters March 14. “We’re following what’s going on.”  De Gregorio, who spoke to reporters after meeting with
Larrain and President Sebastian Pinera on March 14, agreed with
the finance minister.  “We have a lot of trade with Japan that in principal
shouldn’t change significantly,” De Gregorio told reporters.
“Our export sector has shown to be very efficient so we
shouldn’t see significant impacts on the Chilean economy.”  The economy will expand 8.1 percent in the first quarter
from the previous year, when Chile suffered an 8.8-magnitude
earthquake that caused an estimated $30 billion in damage,
according to the median estimate of 40 economists in a March 10
central bank survey. That would be the fastest pace of quarterly
expansion since 1997.  “The country as a whole is in an extremely good
position,” De Gregorio said in a March 4 interview. “From the
point of view of the central bank, what we have to do is control
inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randy Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  