-- 
Chilean Peso Weakens as Global Turmoil Creates Dollar Demand

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-03-17T19:01:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/chilean-peso-weakens-as-global-turmoil-creates-dollar-demand.html
  Chile ’s peso, the weakest emerging-
market currency over the past month, slid for a fourth day as
local traders shifted into dollars for a safe haven as Japan’s
nuclear crisis continued.  The peso fell 0.1 percent to 486.5 per  U.S. dollar  at 2:32
p.m.  New York  time, from 486.07 yesterday.  The currency has dropped 3.8 percent from a peak on Feb. 21
as the cost of oil, Chile’s biggest import, rose and the price
of copper, its biggest export, declined. The peso weakened today
even as copper gained the most in 10 months and the  MSCI World (MXWO) 
Index of global stocks ended a three-day losing streak.  “Even though there was a positive global backdrop, there
was demand from local banks seeking dollars because of what’s
happening in  Japan ,” said Katia Diaz, an analyst at 4Cast Inc.
in New York.  The price of copper for May delivery gained 3.6 percent to
$4.347 a pound as of 2:26 p.m. New York time, and West Texas
crude oil gained 3.7 percent to $101.71 a barrel for April
delivery. Copper accounts for more than half of Chile’s exports
and oil for less than a tenth of its imports.  The euro, used by Chilean traders as an indicator for the
relative value of the dollar, climbed 0.9 percent to $1.4025.  “It’s odd,” said Ronald Volpi, head of spot currency
trading at EuroAmerica Corredores de Bolsa SA in Santiago. “The
move in the  exchange rate  isn’t at all coherent with the
fundamentals. Clearly there was some real demand that pushed the
dollar up.”  Bets Against Peso  Foreign investors increased their bets against the peso in
the forwards market by $977 million, the biggest increase since
April, to $2.7 billion, the most in more than six months on
March 15, according to the latest central bank data.  Chilean interest-rate swap rates rose before a central bank
meeting this afternoon. The bank will raise its benchmark rate
by 25 basis points to 3.75 percent, according to all but three
of the 22 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Chilean inflation expectations soared this year after the
central bank started buying dollars to weaken the peso and
skipped a rate increase in January.  Breakeven inflation, a measure of the pace of future price
rises implied by the interest-rate swap market, rose for a
second day, even after state-owned oil refiner Empresa Nacional
del Petroleo said wholesale gasoline prices will remain
unchanged this week.  Enap, as the company is known, said on March 15 that prices
would rise 3.6 percent today. It adjusted the forecast downward
after Congress last night passed a law bringing forward the new
system for smoothing out volatility in fuel prices.  One-year breakeven inflation climbed 6 basis points to 4.52
percent today, the highest level since March 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  