-- 
Chile May Raise Rate to 3.75% as Inflation Expectations Climb Over Target

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-03-17T03:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/chile-may-raise-rate-to-3-75-as-inflation-expectations-climb-over-target.html
  Chile ’s policy makers will probably
raise their benchmark interest rate today for the ninth time in
10 months as economic growth and commodity prices push inflation
expectations beyond their target.  The five-member policy board, led by bank President Jose  De Gregorio , will raise the overnight rate by a quarter-point for
the second straight month to 3.75 percent, according to 14 of 17
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Three analysts forecast the
bank will raise by a half-point to 4 percent.  Chile resumed rate increases in February, after a one-month
pause, to restrain the effect of global food and energy price
increases on inflation expectations. While traders surveyed by
the bank now see inflation rising above policy makers’ target,
the bank is likely to resist raising rates at a faster pace as
it waits to see the economic impact of Japan’s deadly
earthquake, Corp Research SA said. Japan is Chile’s second-
biggest export market after  China .  “The central bank feels the interest rate still is very
low given the growth and inflation rates they’re projecting,”
Sebastian Cerda, chief economist for the Santiago-based
brokerage, said in an interview. “They won’t risk raising rates
by more than 25 basis points in light of the high level of
uncertainty we’re seeing in global markets today.”  Traders in a March 9 central bank survey estimated annual
inflation would reach 4.48 percent in a year, up from the
forecast of 4 percent made Feb. 23, as commodity prices rise.  Chile’s central bank targets annual inflation of 3 percent
plus or minus one percentage point over a two-year horizon.  Prices, Market View  Consumer prices rose 0.2 percent in February from a month
earlier and 0.3 percent in January, the fastest pace in four
months. Annual inflation was 2.7 percent in February on gains in
food, transport and utility prices.  Bloomberg’s global commodity index, which calculates the
mean of commodity indexes including energy, grains, food,
precious metals and livestock, has risen 19 percent to 265.23 in
the last six months. Chile imports 99 percent of its oil needs.  One-year breakeven inflation, which reflects traders’
expectations of average price rises over the next 12 months,
rose to 4.46 percent yesterday from 3.40 percent on Jan. 3, when
the central bank announced plans to buy $12 billion in U.S.
dollars to weaken the peso.  Five-year breakeven inflation increased to 3.72 percent
yesterday from 3.38 percent on Jan. 5, when policy makers
started buying dollars in $50-million daily tranches.  The peso, which last year rose faster against the dollar
than the six other major Latin American currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, has depreciated 4.2 percent since Jan. 3.  Growth, Exports  Chile’s economy probably grew 5.2 percent in 2010 and is on
track to expand as much as 6.5 percent in 2011, the central bank
said in its latest monetary policy report, published Dec. 20.
The central bank will publish new forecasts in April.    Japan ’s 9.0-magnitude earthquake, ensuing tsunami and
nuclear crisis could have a short-term impact on Chilean exports
to the Asian country, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain told
reporters March 14 after meeting with De Gregorio and President
Sebastian Pinera.  “We have a lot of trade with Japan that in principal
shouldn’t change significantly,” De Gregorio told reporters
after Larrain spoke. “Our export sector has shown to be very
efficient so we shouldn’t see significant impacts on the Chilean
economy.”  Bank’s Focus  De Gregorio said three days earlier in Santiago that it was
“premature” to discuss the economic effects of Japan’s
earthquake and tsunami.  The central bank’s primary focus is controlling inflation,
De Gregorio said during the speech.  “Today, the biggest monetary policy challenge is
preventing food and oil price increases from passing into the
economy and causing the inflation target to deviate,” he said
in prepared remarks. “That requires preventative monetary
policy,” he said, adding that “the central bank will continue
to make the necessary adjustments.”  To be sure, policy makers may raise rates to 4 percent
today to help lower inflation expectations, Larrain Vial SA said
in a March 14 report e-mailed to clients.  “After the last month’s monetary policy meeting, having
raised by 25 basis points, long-term breakeven inflation rates
remain high,” Larrain Vial wrote. “A more aggressive monetary
policy is needed to change these expectations.”  At 3.5 percent, Chile has the second-lowest benchmark rate
among major Latin American economies tracked by Bloomberg behind  Colombia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randy Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  