-- 
China Shoppers Hoard Salt as Protection on Fear Japan Radiation to Spread

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-17T05:12:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/china-shoppers-hoard-salt-as-protection-on-fear-japan-radiation-to-spread.html
Chinese shoppers cleared shelves of
salt, viewed as a defense against  radiation exposure , as the
government sought to allay concern that fallout from a stricken
Japanese nuclear facility might reach its shores.  The Ministry of Environmental Protection released a chart
on its Web site  showing  radiation levels in 41 cities, from
Dalian in the northeast to  Tibet  in the west are within normal
ranges. People shouldn’t take potassium iodide tablets used to
combat radiation unless the government recommends it, the  Center
for Disease Control and Prevention  said on its site.  Yunnan Salt & Chemical Industry Co. shares surged by the 10
percent daily limit as consumers stocked up on the mineral.
China’s National Salt Industry Corp. asked its branches to help
crack down on hoarding. People have been buying more than 10
bags of salt and exhausting supplies, said an assistant at a
Lianhua Supermarket in  Shanghai ’s Hongkou district who declined
to give her name.  "I just wanted to buy it for cooking, but I went to six
supermarkets and there’s no salt any more," said Zou Hemei, a
Shanghai housewife, as half a dozen customers queued in the
supermarket for the mineral. "I ended up buying soy sauce as
a substitute."  Residents should avoid panic buying of salt, the  Shanghai
Municipal Commission of Commerce  said in a phone text message
today. The city has sufficient edible salt stockpiled, it said.  Stricken Plant  China is bidding to ease public health concerns as the
crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant on  Japan ’s
eastern seaboard leaks radiation. Helicopters are dumping water
on a a reactor in an effort to cool exposed fuel rods.  After a nuclear accident "the first thing to do is to avoid
panic," the disease control center said in a posting on its Web
site dated March 16. "Listen to the radio or television, and act
according to the government’s instructions."  Table salt does not contain enough of the type of iodine
needed to block radioactive iodine from damaging a person’s
thyroid gland and should not be taken as a substitute for
potassium iodide pills, according to healthline.com, a U.S.-
based health-information Web site.  Yunnan Salt jumped 1.37 yuan to 15.10 as of the midday
trading break in Shenzhen,  China .  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  offered condolences and sympathy
for victims of the March 11 earthquake in Japan and China
dispatched a search-and-rescue team to its Asian neighbor to aid
in the recovery effort. China’s embassy in Tokyo is organizing
an evacuation of citizens from northern prefectures affected by
the quake, tsunamis and radiation threat. There are 2,900
Chinese citizens in Iwate, one of the four hardest hit, China’s
state-run Xinhua News Agency said.  “This is not a strategic game to play, this is more a
humanitarian or human aspect of our bilateral relationship,”
said Kunihiko Miyake, a former Beijing-based Japanese diplomat
who now is research director of the Canon Institute for Global
Studies in  Tokyo .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  