-- 
China’s Ceramic-Tile Exporters Face EU Tariffs as High as 73%

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-03-17T09:32:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/china-s-ceramic-tile-exporters-face-eu-tariffs-as-high-as-73-.html
The European Union imposed tariffs
as high as 73 percent on ceramic tiles from  China  to help
Italian, Spanish, Portuguese and other EU producers compete
against cheaper imports.  The duties punish Chinese manufacturers of the tiles for
selling them in the EU below cost, a practice known as  dumping .
The EU has more than 500 producers of these tiles, which are
used in construction to cover walls and floors.  EU makers suffered “material injury” as a result of
dumped imports from China, the European Commission, the 27-
nation bloc’s trade authority in Brussels, said today in the
 Official Journal . The levies, due to take effect tomorrow, are
for six months and may be prolonged for five years.  Chinese exporters including the Becarry, Xinruncheng and
Wonderful groups expanded their combined share of the EU market
for ceramic tiles to 6.5 percent in the 12 months through March
2010 from 4.8 percent in 2007, according to the commission.  The “highly fragmented” EU industry, which includes more
than 350 small companies, saw its share of the home market fall
to 88 percent from 89 percent in the period, the commission
said.  Turkey  is the second-largest exporter of ceramic tiles to
the EU, with about 3 percent of the bloc’s market, it said.  The duties against China are the preliminary outcome of an
inquiry that the commission opened last June after a dumping
complaint by the  European Ceramic Tile Manufacturers’ Federation 
on behalf of 69 producers that account for more than 30 percent
of the EU’s output of ceramic tiles. The levies range from 26.2
percent to 73 percent, depending on the Chinese manufacturer.  EU governments, acting on a proposal from the commission,
must decide within six months whether to turn the provisional
anti-dumping duties into “definitive” levies lasting for five
years. The imports targeted include “glazed and unglazed
ceramic flags and paving, hearth or wall tiles” and “glazed
and unglazed ceramic mosaic cubes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  