-- 
China Steel Group Lobbies Premier to Help Tackle High Ore Prices

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-17T07:43:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/china-steel-group-lobbies-premier-to-help-tackle-high-ore-prices.html
The  China  Iron and Steel
Association has asked Premier  Wen Jiabao  to take measures to
help steelmakers tackle iron-ore prices as many of them will
likely incur losses this month due to high costs.  Wen and Vice Premier Zhang Dejiang ordered the Ministry of
Commerce to “find solutions,”  Luo Bingsheng , special adviser
and former executive vice chairman to the association, said,
without specifying what measures the government would take.  Overcapacity and rising costs cut the average profit
margins of Chinese steelmakers to just 3.5 percent in 2010, the
lowest of any industry, according to the government. The price
of 62 percent-iron ore arriving at China’s Tianjin port hit
$191.90 on Feb. 16, the highest level since data became
available in November 2008, according to the Steel Index.  “The ultimate reason for the low profits is high iron ore
prices,” Luo said, “China should streamline its qualified
importers to curb speculative purchases and control the
inventory of imports at reasonable levels.”  The government is “actively studying” the establishment
of standards for imported iron ore, Luo said, without giving
details or a timeframe.  China’s iron ore production will rise 8.8 percent to 660
million metric tons this year, Luo said, pacing estimates by the
Ministry of Industry and  Information Technology .  China’s iron ore imports fell 1.4 percent to 618.6 million
tons last year, the first drop since 1998, after the government
took measures to curb electricity use, rein in property
speculations and as domestic mines increased output.  Imports may stay at last year’s level, and domestic iron
ore production will rise substantially this year, Luo said,
without elaborating.  --Helen Yuan. Editors: Alan Soughley, Indranil Ghosh  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  