-- 
China Halts Nuclear Projects Approvals; Asia on Alert for Japan Radiation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-17T03:20:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/china-halts-nuclear-projects-approvals-asia-on-alert-for-japan-radiation.html
  China  temporarily stopped approving
new nuclear projects and Hong Kong began releasing real-time
data on radiation levels from 10 monitoring stations as Asian
governments responded in the aftermath of Japan’s earthquake.  “Approvals of new plants will be suspended, including
those in the pre-development phase, until safety and improved
long-term development plans are cleared,” China’s State Council
said after a meeting chaired by Premier Wen Jiabao. The nuclear
power plants are all operating safely, the statement said.  As workers in northern Japan tried today to cool uranium
and plutonium fuel rods at reactors that nuclear experts
overseas said could be emitting radiation, nations around the
region screened airline passengers and food coming from  Japan .  China has about 13 operational nuclear reactors and is
building more than 25, according to a report on the World
Nuclear Association’s  website .  “We must fully understand the urgency and importance of
nuclear safety and prioritize it in the development of nuclear
power,” the State Council, or Cabinet, said. China plans
additional reactors to provide more than a 10-fold increase in
atomic capacity by 2020, according to the association, a London-
based advocate for the industry.  Radiation Monitoring  China began giving updates on radiation levels more than
once a day in 42 cities, including Beijing and Shanghai, since
the crisis started. The Hong Kong Observatory has started
providing real-time ambient gamma radiation levels from its 10
monitoring stations over the  Internet , according to a  statement 
on the government website yesterday.  The  World Health Organization  in China said yesterday there
was no basis for text messages circulating with warnings of a
radiation cloud spreading across  Asia . Since Japan’s nuclear
crisis began with the magnitude-9 undersea earthquake,  Hong Kong 
weather officials have been posting maps showing winds in Hong
Kong coming from different directions.    Singapore ’s Agri-Food & Veterinary Authority began testing
seafood, fruits, vegetables and meat exported from Japan for
radioactive contaminants after March 11, the day the earthquake
and subsequent tsunami triggered the nuclear crisis. Singapore
imported less than 2 percent of its seafood from Japan last year,
with other food products from Japan accounting for less than 0.5
percent of imported produce.  Travelers Screened  Taiwan is screening passengers from Japan and detected 25
with “very low” and “unharmful” levels of radiation as of
11:30 p.m. yesterday, the Health Physics Section of the Atomic
Energy Council said. The clothing and belongings were
decontaminated.  Malaysia wants to learn from Japan’s nuclear accident
before making a final decision on whether to push ahead with
plans to establish its first atomic  power plants , Peter Chin,
minister for energy, green technology and water, said in an
interview March 14.  Malaysia has joined  South Korea ,  Indonesia ,  Thailand  and
Singapore in screening imported food from Japan for radiation.
It’s been scanning visitor arrivals from Japan since Jan. 13.  The quake in Japan killed thousands and interrupted
electricity, food and water supplies. Lines of cars streamed
south from devastated areas as a few dozen technicians battled
to contain fires and radiation leaks at the crippled Fukushima
Dai-Ichi power station.  “The nuclear accident won’t have any serious impact on
China’s nuclear industry and we won’t alter our long-term
development plans,” China National Nuclear Corp. President Sun Qin said in a March 14 interview in Beijing.  China is relying on alternative energy sources such as
nuclear power as it tries to sustain growth and minimize
environmental damage. The nation wants at least 15 percent of
its energy mix to come from non-fossil fuels by 2020.  --Alfred Cang. With assistance from  Henry Sanderson  and Baizhen
Chua in Beijing, and Adela Lin in Taipei. Editors: Dirk Beveridge, Michael Tighe  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alfred Cang in  Shanghai  at +86-21-6104-3031 or
 acang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dirk Beveridge at 
 dbeveridge1@bloomberg.net  