-- 
China Overseas 2010 Profit Increases 66% on Revaluations, One-Time Gains

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-03-17T08:40:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/china-overseas-2010-profit-increases-66-on-revaluations-one-time-gains.html
  China  Overseas Land & Investment
Ltd., a Hong Kong-based builder controlled by the Chinese
construction ministry, said 2010 profit climbed 66 percent on
gains from property revaluations and the sale of stakes in
several real estate projects.  Net income rose to HK$12.4 billion ($1.59 billion), or
HK$1.51 a share, from HK$7.47 billion, or 92 Hong Kong cents a
share, a year earlier, the company said in a stock-exchange
filing today. That compares to the HK$9.31 billion average
estimate of 18 analysts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales rose to HK$44.3 billion from HK$37.3 billion.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said March 5 that China will
“resolutely” press ahead with controls on the  property market 
to curb speculation, reiterating a pledge to keep housing
affordable. The government will “severely punish”
irregularities in the real-estate market, implement
differentiated credit and tax policies, and hold local officials
accountable for maintaining stable home prices, he said.  “China Overseas’s earnings show prices haven’t really been
affected by those measures and that there is genuine demand for
housing,”  Kenny Tang , Hong Kong-based executive director at
AMTD Financial Planning Ltd., said in an interview. “Still,
investors may be concerned whether more measures to curb prices
will be implemented.”  The Hong Kong-traded stock rose 0.8 percent to HK$13.24 at
the 4 p.m. close in Hong Kong, reversing an earlier loss of as
much as 2.4 percent. The shares have lost 7.9 percent this year,
compared with an 8.3 percent decline in the Hang Seng Property
Index, which tracks the seven biggest Hong Kong-listed builders
including  China Overseas .  Volatile Market  China Overseas made a total gain of HK$1.47 billion from
several asset sales including its interest in three projects by
a real estate fund and another project in Nanjing in
southeastern China, it said.  The value of homes sold in China rose 26 percent to 447.1
billion yuan ($68 billion) in the first two months of the year,
defying government measures to curb speculation, according to
the nation’s bureau of statistics. January’s new home prices
increased in all but two of the 70 cities monitored by the
government.  “Greater volatility in the China property market is
anticipated amid increased uncertainty,” Chairman Kong Qingping
said in today’s statement.  Operating Profit  China Overseas, which builds homes and offices in 20 cities
on the mainland, said operating profit from its property
development business in China rose 55 percent to HK$16.34
billion, accounting for 79 percent of the group’s total profit.  The group aims to finish 7 million square meters (75
million square feet) of properties in China this year, Vice-
chairman Hao Jianmin told reporters at a briefing in  Hong Kong 
today.  The developer plans to set up a real estate fund with up to
$500 million in assets, as it bets that government measures
won’t curb property demand.  The group may consider raising funds in Hong Kong in yuan
next year, Kong said at today’s briefing, adding that there are
no “definite” plans.  Local Curbs  Cities including Jinan in the north, Nanjing in the east
and Kunming in the south have followed Beijing in introducing
local curbs on home purchases. The government this year raised
down-payment requirements for second homes and imposed taxes on
residential properties in Shanghai and Chongqing.  China Overseas hasn’t been affected by property curbs
imposed by the government yet, Kong said in a March 7 interview.
The measures will help control  home prices  in the short term,
though long-term demand will continue to be strong, he said.  The company sold a total of HK$67.1 billion worth of
properties during 2010, up 40 percent from a year earlier, it
said today. Hong Kong and Chinese developers begin selling
properties while they’re still in construction and book profit
upon completion.  The developer bought 11 parcels of land in nine cities
including Chengdu, Dalian and Beijing with a total gross floor
areas of 3.32 million square meters during the year, it said.  The company will pay a final dividend of 17 Hong Kong cents
per share, compared with 13 Hong Kong cents a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at   kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  