-- 
China Mobile Drops to 23-Month Low on Unexpected Spending

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-17T03:10:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/china-mobile-tumbles-to-23-month-low-on-surprise-spending-gain.html
  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the world’s
biggest wireless carrier by users, fell to the lowest in 23
months in  Hong Kong  trading after the company unexpectedly said
it will boost capital spending 6.5 percent this year.  China Mobile fell 2.7 percent to HK$69.15 at 10:12 a.m.
local time. Earlier the shares fell as much as 3.6 percent to
HK$68.50, the lowest intraday price since April 30, 2009.  China Mobile said yesterday it would boost capital spending
on its networks to 132.4 billion yuan ($20.1 billion) this year,
from 124.3 billion yuan in 2010, to expand its ability to
deliver data to mobile Web users downloading music, video and
games on their phones. China Mobile had been expected to reduce
spending from the high levels of the past two years, when it was
setting up its third-generation network, according to analysts
including Colin McCallum from Credit Suisse Group AG.  “In a major change, China Mobile guided for capex to
increase,” Hong Kong-based McCallum wrote in a report yesterday
after the earnings were released. “Management therefore appears
keen to use China Mobile’s balance-sheet power to invest
aggressively and maintain its service and network quality
advantages, in order to protect its dominant position amongst
medium and high-end customers in advance of the rollout of 4G.”  Other analysts, including Michael Meng of BOCI Research
Ltd., had also expected the Beijing-based company to cut
spending from last year’s level. Meng had forecast  capital
spending  at China Mobile would drop to 118 billion yuan this
year in a March 9 report. Paul Wuh, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Samsung Securities Co., said yesterday he’d expected the 2011
expenditure at 98 billion yuan.  Spending Guidance  The capital spending guidance “was a negative coming out
of the result,” Lisa Soh, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd., which rates the stock “outperform”, said
in an e-mail yesterday.  Soh said she was surprised by the company’s projection,
which was 35 percent more than the 98 billion yuan she
estimated.  “To expand our leading position and further develop high
value-added services, we will increase our capital spending this
year,” China Mobile Chairman  Wang Jianzhou  said at a press
conference in Hong Kong yesterday. “The value-added data
business will be a significant source of future revenue growth
for our company.”  Capital spending will remain above last year’s level in
each of the next two years, Wang said. He projected spending of
130.4 billion yuan next year, and 125.5 billion yuan in 2013.  Data Boost  Data services helped boost net income 3.7 percent to 32.4
billion yuan in the fourth quarter ended Dec. 31, according to
figures derived from full-year earnings reported by the company
yesterday. Profit was expected to be 31.8 billion yuan,
according to the average of five analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg News. Fourth-quarter sales rose 6 percent to 132.6
billion yuan.  China Mobile had a total of 584 million mobile-phone
subscribers at the end of last year, including 20.7 million
customers for the high-speed, third-generation service that
smartphones use to surf the Web, the company said in February.  That compares with China Unicom’s 311.3 million total
subscribers and 14.1 million users of its 3G service. China
Telecom was in third place with 90.5 million subscribers.  China Mobile has 35 million registered customers for its
mobile applications offerings, who can select from 50,000
applications to download, the carrier said. By the end of last
year, the site had recorded 110 million application downloads,
according to a company statement.  4G Trial  Wang aims to keep China Mobile’s lead with heavy-data users
by rolling out the country’s first fourth-generation network.
The company in December received approval from the Ministry of
Industry and  Information Technology  to begin a trial of its 4G
TD-LTE network, and this month it added Beijing to the original
six cities in the program: Shanghai, Hangzhou, Nanjing,
Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Xiamen.  The trials will primarily be focused on high-speed data
cards for  notebook computers  and won’t promote many new handsets
for the system, Chief Executive Officer Li Yue said yesterday.  The trials will include  network equipment  from both Chinese
and foreign suppliers, Li said. Chinese suppliers may include
Huawei Technologies Co. and  ZTE Corp. (763)  while overseas companies
may include Ericsson AB, Nokia Siemens Networks and Alcatel-
Lucent SA, he said.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 