-- 
Clinton Says Libya Options Include Drones and Arming Rebels

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-03-17T16:10:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/clinton-pledges-economic-aid-for-tunisia-praises-country-s-libya-response.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said that options being considered for action against
Libya include the use of drones, bombing air defense systems and
arming rebel forces.  Clinton, in a reply to questions by reporters on a trip to
Tunisia, said “those kinds of specificities are exactly what’s
being negotiated and debated as we speak in  New York ” at the  United Nations . Asked in Tunis today if the U.S. was considering
sending ground forces to fight troops loyal to Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi , Clinton said “no.”  “But it is important to recognize that military experts
across the world know that a no-fly zone requires certain
actions to be taken to protect the planes and the pilots,
including bombing targets like the air defense systems,”
Clinton said.  UN discussions are due to resume today and may be followed
by a vote on measures against Qaddafi. The U.S. has signaled it
will back the imposition of a no-fly zone and other military
action, though there is no unanimity among  Security Council 
members. NATO’s chief, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, said the alliance
must be prepared for “all eventualities.” German Foreign
Minister  Guido Westerwelle  opposed military action and called
for tougher sanctions.  Clinton, asked if Arab nations might participate in
establishing a no-fly zone by contributing pilots or planes,
said: “That is also being discussed.”  No Land Forces  Asked whether the Security Council is considering an
intervention by land over the Egyptian or Tunisian borders,
specifically for U.S. forces to use land crossings, Clinton
said, “No, there is no discussion of that.”  Qaddafi’s son, Saif al-Islam, scoffed at the Security
Council debate on a no-fly zone. “It’s too late,” he said in an
interview with EuroNews television, according to a transcript on
its website. “In 48 hours, we will have finished our military
operation. We are at the gates of Benghazi.”  Clinton visited the region as Qaddafi’s warplanes bombed
Benghazi airport, Al Jazeera television reported, bringing the
war to  Libya ’s opposition stronghold for the first time.  She visited  Egypt  before arriving in Tunisia and announced
more than $2 billion in economic aid for the region and
“several hundred million” dollars to help Tunisia create the
economic growth needed to stabilize as it makes the transition
to democracy.  “We understand that the people of Tunisia do not want
democracy just for its own sake,” Clinton said. “They expect
democracy to deliver jobs and opportunities that will help them
prosper and take advantage of the global economy.”  Private Investment  The U.S. is seeking to increase private investment in
Tunisia and Egypt after both nations ousted their leaders
through public protests, she said.  Clinton met Tunisian interim President Fouad Mebazaa
today and Prime Minister Beji Caid Essebsi and will appear at a
town hall meeting with ordinary Tunisians.    Tunisia ’s credit rating was cut one notch to BBB- on March
16 at  Standard & Poor’s , which said the country’s political
turmoil this year has hurt its economic prospects.  Stable Outlook  S&P assigned a stable outlook to the rating because it
expects the transition after the nation’s regime change will
lead to a mainly temporary drag on economic growth and public
finances.  The U.S. aid to Tunisia would be in the form of direct
loans, loan guarantees and political risk insurance, Clinton
said.  At a press conference with Foreign Minister Mouldi Kefi,
Clinton said the U.S. would explore setting up a Tunisian-
American Enterprise Fund and organizing conferences to connect
American investors with Tunisian entrepreneurs.  She also announced a program backed by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  to
make  information technology  available to Tunisian civil society
groups that advocate human rights, democracy, civic education
and the disabled.  Three weeks of protests over high food prices, unemployment
and political repression forced former President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali out of power on Jan. 14.  The Tunisian protests touched off anti-government
unrest in Egypt, Libya, Yemen, Bahrain, Oman, Jordan, Algeria,
Morocco,  Iran  and Iraq. The popular uprisings led to the ouster
of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak , and fierce fighting between
rebels and forces loyal to Libya’s Qaddafi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Tunis, Tunisia at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  