-- 
Colombia Investment-Grade Rating Pushes Yields Below Peru’s

-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 
2011-03-17T05:00:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/colombia-investment-grade-rating-pushes-yields-below-peru-s.html
  Colombia ’s rating increase to
investment grade pushed its borrowing costs below those of
neighboring Peru for the first time in three months.  Yields on dollar-denominated bonds due in 2019 fell 14 basis
points yesterday, or 0.14 percentage point, to 4.20 percent,
five basis points below similar-maturity Peruvian notes, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Standard & Poor’s  raised Colombia’s
foreign debt rating one level to BBB-, the same as Peru, because
of a “favorable” growth outlook and “resilient” economy.  “In the short term there will be an effect on the yield
curve,” said Omar Escorcia, a fixed-income analyst at Asesores
en Valores SA brokerage in Bogota. “The country will have
access to financing sources at lower costs.”  Colombia is returning to investment-grade ranks 11 years
after it was cut to junk in the midst of a growing rebel
insurgency. The country has cut its homicide rate by almost half
since 2002, when former President  Alvaro Uribe  took office and
boosted investor confidence by cutting debt, maintaining stable
inflation and increasing economic growth. The government
forecasts the economy grew 4 percent last year and estimates
gross domestic product will rise 4.5 percent this year.  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings rate Colombia
one level below investment grade with a positive outlook.  Colombia’s 10-year dollar bonds still yield five basis
points more than similar-maturity debt issued by  Brazil , which
also has a BBB- rating from S&P. Brazil has a positive outlook,
while Colombia’s is stable.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Colombian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps was 120 basis points
yesterday, one basis point below similar contracts for  Peru ,
according to CMA DataVision in New York.  “We’ll see it trade through Peru, but in the medium term
we should see this reverse due to better growth perspectives in
Peru,” Escorcia said. “I don’t see more than 6 months of this
situation.”  The rating reflects prospects that a growing economy and
new fiscal measures could reduce sovereign debt, S&P’s report
said. The upgrade also follows growing investor confidence
helped by a “political consensus in Colombia on market-oriented
economic policies,” the statement said.  “This is a certificate of good behavior,” President  Juan Manuel Santos  said in a statement on the presidential website.
The rating increase “allows many companies, pension funds and
institutions with considerable resources to invest in
Colombia,” he said.  “A lot of people expected it for a very long time,” said
Alberto Bernal, head of fixed-income research at Bulltick, a
Miami-based brokerage that focuses on Latin America. “I expect
Moody’s to move very fast after this. They’ve been very vocal on
the possibility of an upgrade coming for Colombia.”  Budget Deficit  The government forecasts the budget deficit will equal 4.1
percent of GDP this year, up from 3.9 percent in 2010.  “Deepening domestic capital markets and improving external
liquidity should continue to reduce the level of vulnerability
embedded in the sovereign’s debt burden,” S&P said in a
statement.  Colombia lost its investment grade rating with Moody’s and
S&P in 1999, when violence and a banking crisis helped trigger
six straight quarters of contraction beginning in 1998.  Santos, who took office in August, and Uribe, his
predecessor, have drawn investment by improving security and
weakening rebel groups, including the Revolutionary Armed Forces
of Colombia, or FARC. Foreign direct investment more than
quadrupled in the past decade, to $7.2 billion in 2009 from $1.5
billion in 1999.  “If Santos’s policies continue to be market friendly, and
if they are able to hold onto gains that have been achieved in
security, there will be further upgrades,” Bernal said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Camila Russo in  New York  at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  