-- 
Colombian Peso, Stocks Jump After S&P Gives Nation Investment-Grade Rating

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 
2011-03-17T20:39:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/colombian-peso-bonds-advance-after-s-p-lifts-country-to-investment-grade.html
  Colombia ’s peso rose the most in
two weeks and stocks jumped the most in two years after the
nation was boosted to investment grade by  Standard & Poor’s .  The peso climbed 0.7 percent to 1,879.93 per  U.S. dollar  at
4 p.m. New York time. The Colcap Index surged 4.3 percent, the
most since October 2008, as 18 of 20 stocks on the gauge
advanced.  Colombia’s credit rating increase to investment grade
pushed its borrowing costs in dollars below those of neighboring  Peru  for the first time in three months yesterday. S&P yesterday
raised Colombia’s foreign debt rating one level to BBB-, the
same as Peru, citing a “favorable” growth outlook and
“resilient” economy.  “All signs are there for the economy to continue growing
at high levels,” said Alejandro Rivera, a Latin America
economist and strategist at Bank of America in  New York . “It
provides a good excuse to buy Colombia.”  Colombia is returning to investment-grade ranks 11 years
after it was cut to junk in the midst of a growing rebel
insurgency. The country has cut its homicide rate by almost half
since 2002, when former President  Alvaro Uribe  took office and
boosted investor confidence by cutting debt, maintaining stable
inflation and increasing economic growth.  Growth Outlook  Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said yesterday the
credit upgrade may allow the economy to grow as much as 6
percent this year, more than the 4.5 percent previously
forecast, and up from an estimated 4 percent in 2010.  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings rate Colombia
one level below investment grade with a positive outlook.  “This is positive for all assets in Colombia,” said  Benito Berber , a strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York.  Yields on dollar-denominated bonds due in 2019 rose seven
basis points today to 4.27 percent, pushing the yields back over
those of comparable Peruvian debt, which were little changed at
4.24 percent.  The cost of protecting Colombian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell one basis point to
117 today, three basis points below similar contracts for Peru,
according to CMA DataVision in  London .  Colombia’s benchmark 11 percent peso-denominated bonds due
July 2020 ended lower, erasing earlier gains. The yield rose 5
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 8.15 percent,
according to Colombia’s stock exchange. The bond’s price fell
0.37 centavo to 118.065 centavos per peso.  ‘Good Behavior’  Inversiones Argos SA, the owner of Colombia’s biggest
cement maker, led gains on the Colcap as it added 6.9 percent to
18,480 pesos. Isagen SA, a state-controlled power producer,
increased 6.1 percent to 2,420 pesos.  The new rating reflects prospects that a growing economy
and new fiscal measures could reduce sovereign debt, S&P’s
report said. The upgrade also follows growing investor
confidence helped by a “political consensus in Colombia on
market-oriented economic policies,” the statement said.  “This is a certificate of good behavior,” President  Juan Manuel Santos  said in a statement on the presidential website.
The rating increase “allows many companies, pension funds and
institutions with considerable resources to invest in
Colombia,” he said.  Colombia is prepared to manage any “excessive wave” of
dollar inflows following the upgrade, Echeverry said in an
interview today with Bogota-based Caracol Radio.  Budget Deficit  “A lot of people expected it for a very long time,” said
Alberto Bernal, head of fixed-income research at Bulltick, a
Miami-based brokerage that focuses on Latin America. “I expect
Moody’s to move very fast after this. They’ve been very vocal on
the possibility of an upgrade coming for Colombia.”  The government forecasts the budget deficit will equal 4.1
percent of gross domestic product this year, up from 3.9 percent
in 2010.  “Deepening domestic capital markets and improving external
liquidity should continue to reduce the level of vulnerability
embedded in the sovereign’s debt burden,” S&P said in a
statement.  Colombia lost its investment grade rating with Moody’s and
S&P in 1999, when violence and a banking crisis helped trigger
six straight quarters of contraction beginning in 1998.  Santos, who took office in August, and Uribe, his
predecessor, have drawn investment by improving security and
weakening rebel groups, including the Revolutionary Armed Forces
of Colombia, or FARC. Foreign direct investment more than
quadrupled in the past decade, to $7.2 billion in 2009 from $1.5
billion in 1999.  Barclays Recommendation  “If Santos’s policies continue to be market friendly, and
if they are able to hold onto gains that have been achieved in
security, there will be further upgrades,” Bernal said.    Barclays Capital  said in a report today it moved Colombia
to “underweight” in its emerging markets credit portfolio.  “Colombia’s spreads have already compressed quite a bit
relative to those of its low-beta peers, while most of the
positive news flow we had envisioned is becoming old news now,”
Barclays economists Donato Guarino and  Jimena Zuniga  wrote in
the report. “In addition, we believe a further upgrade should
soon be followed by issuance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in New York at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net ;
Camila Russo in New York at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  