-- 
Colombia Is Prepared for Any ‘Wave’ of Inflows, Echeverry Says

-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 
2011-03-17T15:12:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/colombia-is-prepared-for-any-wave-of-inflows-echeverry-says.html
  Colombia  is prepared to manage any
“excessive wave” of dollar inflows after the nation’s credit
rating was raised to investment grade yesterday , Finance
Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said.    Standard & Poor’s  raised Colombia one step to BBB-, from
BB+. The increase puts Colombia’s rating in line with that of
Brazil and Peru. The rating outlook is stable, S&P said.  “I would expect we have sufficient instruments to
guarantee stability,” Echeverry told Bogota-based Caracol Radio
in an interview today. The rating “is a vote of confidence” in
the South American country, he said.  Colombian stocks, bonds and the peso gained today after S&P
said the Andean nation has a “favorable” growth outlook and
“resilient” economy. Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings both have a positive outlook on Colombia, suggesting
there may be a change in their ratings soon, Echeverry said.  Moody’s and Fitch rate Colombia one level below investment
grade.  The ratings change also may lend support to Colombia’s
efforts to garner a free-trade agreement with the U.S.,
Echeverry said. In 2006, then-President  George W. Bush  signed
the accord that has languished awaiting U.S. congressional
action.  Foreign direct investment in Colombia more than tripled to
$7.2 billion in 2009 from $2.1 billion in 2002, when former
President Alvaro Uribe took office with pledges to repel
guerrilla forces.  President Juan Manuel Santos, who took office in August, is
sustaining security policies that are luring investment from
billionaires  Eike Batista  and  Carlos Slim , the Mexican
businessman named by Forbes last week as the world’s richest
person.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  