-- 
Conflicting Information Drives Fear in Japan Disaster

-- B y   M e h u l   S r i v a s t a v a   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 
2011-03-17T17:39:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/conflicting-information-drives-fear-in-japan-reactor-disaster.html
Accurate and timely information
from Tokyo Electric Power Co. about the accident at its nuclear
plant in northern  Japan  has been hard to come by.  About 60 reporters at a March 16 briefing with utility
officials wanted to know whether helicopters would dump seawater
on reactors at the Dai-Ichi station to prevent a meltdown. The
company was considering the plan, said Masahisa Otsuki, head of
the nuclear maintenance division.  At the same time, a live broadcast on a nearby TV screen
showed a helicopter taking off with a massive bucket of water
hanging from its belly. Reporters barraged the officials.  “We are sorry,” a spokesman said. “We need to check on
this.”  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  was so frustrated March 15 by a
delay in informing him of a fire in reactor No. 1 that he asked
utility officials, “What the hell is going on?,” several news
agencies reported.  Neighboring  China , worried about the spread of radiation
from damaged reactors, urged Japan to keep the world fully
informed of its efforts and to provide timely and accurate
information, Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Jiang Yu said.  ‘Confusing Situation’  “It’s a confusing situation, and we’re not getting
consistent reports out of Japan,” said Gerry Thomas, professor
of molecular pathology at  London ’s Imperial College who has
studied the aftermath of the Chernobyl disaster. “There is an
awful lot of misinformation, I think, being put out.”  On March 16, spokesmen for  Asia ’s biggest utility, also
known as Tepco, appeared to indicate that the containment vessel
of reactor No. 3 was breached, citing a fire and a surge in
radiation as evidence. They later backtracked after no breach
was found.  They also told reporters that smoke was coming out of
reactor No. 4, then later corrected that to reactor No. 3.  The government, Tepco and the Nuclear and Industrial Safety
Agency have different roles to play in disseminating
information, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said.  “Each party should take its own responsibility and ensure
coordination to avoid information confusion,” he said.  ‘Absolute Minimum’  Experts on nuclear accidents say they are frustrated by the
lack of information. People searching for news on the worst
nuclear accident since Chernobyl have crashed the  International
Atomic Energy Association’s  website.  “Tepco are doing the absolute minimum public
announcements,” said John Price, a Melbourne-based consultant
on industrial accidents and former policy staffer at the U.K.’s
National Nuclear Corp. Price also called for more details from
General Electric on its reactors. Tepco operates and maintains
the Dai-Ichi plant complex.  U.S. equities extended their retreat March 16 after  U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission  Chairman Gregory Jaczko told
lawmakers that all the water had drained from a spent-fuel pool
at Fukushima, and high levels of radiation were being released.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index is down 2.4 percent since March
11.  Premature Panic  “Investors are selling on the appearance of a negative
situation with the nuclear reactors, and you can’t say it’s
unfounded because we don’t know how bad this may get,” said
Christopher Sheldon, the Boston-based director of investment
strategy at BNY Mellon Wealth Management, which oversees $166
billion globally.  People are envisioning “worst-case” scenarios based on
unreliable and often incomplete information, mostly collected
from media reports, said Geoff Parks, a nuclear engineer at the
University of Cambridge.  Panic over the possibility of uncovered fuel rods leading
to new nuclear reactions was premature, he said. The rods would
need to reach at least 2,200 degrees Celsius, the melting point
for uranium dioxide, the primary fuel in the rods.  The last known temperature in the fuel ponds was less than
100 degrees Celsius, Tepco officials said.  The  Associated Press  reported at the time that Tepco
disagreed with Jaczko’s assessment, even though most of its
measuring equipment was broken.  “We haven’t been able to get any of the latest data at any
spent fuel pools,” Otsuki said. “We don’t have the latest
water levels, temperatures, none of the latest information for
any of the four reactors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mehul Srivastava in  New Delhi  at 
 msrivastava6@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  