-- 
Congo Halts Exploration of Soco International Oil Block

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-03-17T18:06:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/congo-halts-exploration-of-soco-international-oil-block-1-.html
The Democratic Republic of Congo
will conduct an environmental assessment of Virunga National
Park before deciding whether Soco International Plc can explore
for oil there, the country’s environment minister said.  Minister Jose Endundo commented by phone today from
Kinshasa, the capital. The Strategic Environmental Assessment
will last until early next year, according to a letter Endundo
sent to five international environmental organizations. The area
in question, Block 5, overlaps with the nature reserve.  Soco Deputy Chief Executive Officer Roger Cagle said he was
not aware that their exploration plans had been put on hold.  “We just submitted our environmental impact assessment
last week and we were expecting to hear something back by the
beginning of April,” he said by phone from  London . “As far as
we know, everything is proceeding but if it doesn’t, it
doesn’t.”  The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization, known as Unesco, designated Virunga a World
Heritage Site in 1979. The park is about 800,000 hectares (1.98
million acres) and home to hippopotamuses and endangered
mountain gorillas. Since the mid-1990s, rebel groups and
refugees have moved into parts of the reserve, clearing forest
and killing wildlife.  Endundo’s letter, dated March 14, said the government had
rejected Soco’s environmental impact assessment, “which we
consider premature, superficial and which does not conform to
the standards which we expect.”  Two Assessments  Soco has submitted two assessments. Endundo did not say
which one he was referring to.  “We’re very pleased with the minister’s decision,”
Emmanuel de Merode, director of Virunga Park, said by phone from
the park’s headquarters in Rumangabo. “Whatever the outcome, it
will be following a considered and carefully assessed process on
what’s best for the Congolese people, and that’s what’s best for
the national park as well.”  The strategic assessment will cover all oil blocks along
Congo’s eastern border, the letter said. Total SA and SacOil
Holdings Ltd., also have stakes in blocks along the border.
Exploration is not suspended for all blocks, Endundo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Bukavu on 
 Mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 