-- 
Congress Approves Measure Funding U.S. Government Until April 8

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-03-17T21:33:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/congress-approves-measure-funding-u-s-government-until-april-8.html
Congress gave final approval to a
stopgap measure funding the U.S. government until April 8 while
lawmakers debate spending levels for the rest of this year.  The Senate  voted  87-13 to send the plan to President  Barack Obama  for his signature. It cleared the House two days ago over
opposition from 54 members of the Republican majority.  Lawmakers working on the longer-term budget today reported
little progress toward agreement on how much to cut, which
programs to shrink, and what to do with more than 50 policy
actions -- such as ending funds for Planned Parenthood -- that  House Republicans  seek to include in the plan.  Congressional leaders are determined to complete a budget
plan for the fiscal year ending Sept. 30 in the next three weeks
to avoid a government shutdown, said Representative Steny Hoyer,
the second-ranking House Democrat.  “I think that everybody is of the same mind that we need
to get this resolved,” Hoyer said. “That is progress.”  The legislation approved today includes $6 billion in
spending cuts, which would bring total reductions this year to
about $10 billion. House Republicans are demanding another $50
billion in savings. They also want to stop federal money from
being spent on the Obama administration’s health-care overhaul,
student-loan policies and environmental regulations, along with
Planned Parenthood.  Senator Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said he is pushing
instead for tax increases and cuts in programs such as  farm
subsidies .  ‘Lots of Choices’  “We have a long list of mandatory programs -- there’s lots
of choices,” said Reid of  Nevada . He ruled out any agreement
that would bar funding for Planned Parenthood, which provides
abortions among other family-planning services. That “won’t be
part of an agreement,” he told reporters.  Senator  Charles Schumer  urged House Speaker  John Boehner  to
seek a bipartisan deal rather than try to please Republican
colleagues who opposed the stopgap measure and forced him to
rely on Democratic votes to produce a majority.  “Boehner wouldn’t have been able to pass this short-term
measure without Democratic votes and he won’t be able to pass a
long one without Democratic votes either,” Schumer said. He
also criticized the Republicans’ policy provisions, saying,
“They want to impose their entire social agenda on the back of
a must-pass budget.”  Representative Mike Simpson, an Idaho Republican and
chairman of the Appropriations Committee’s  panel  on the interior
and the environment, said he would be willing to trade some of
those policy items for spending cuts.  ‘Live With That’  “If we had to give some of those up to get the right
number, I could live with that,” he said.  He also said he didn’t know if his side was willing to
compromise on spending levels. “That’s the big question --
nobody knows,” Simpson said.  House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers, a
Kentucky Republican, said Republicans are “preparing ourselves
to take whatever number” that Boehner, an Ohio Republican, and
Obama “agree to and make that work.”  Any cuts will likely produce additional savings in
subsequent years by reducing the increase in discretionary
spending and interest payments on the debt.  A measure approved last month by the House, cutting $61
billion from this year’s budget, would save $862 billion over
the next decade if lawmakers kept subsequent spending at the
rate of inflation, according to an analysis by Senator  Jeff Sessions  of  Alabama , the top Republican on the chamber’s Budget
Committee.  “That’s a real good step -- that does make a difference,”
Sessions said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  