-- 
Cost of Living in U.S. Rose 0.5 Percent in February, More Than Forecast

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-03-17T12:51:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/consumer-prices-in-u-s-rose-0-5-in-february-core-up-0-2-.html
The cost of living in the U.S.
climbed more than forecast in February, led by the highest food
prices since 2008 and rising fuel costs.  The  consumer-price index  increased 0.5 percent, the most
since June 2009, figures from the Labor Department showed today
in  Washington . Economists projected a 0.4 percent gain,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.
Excluding volatile food and fuel costs, the so-called core gauge
rose 0.2 percent for a second month, also more than estimated.  Retailers from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to  Gap Inc. (GPS)  are facing
rising raw materials costs, which may erode profits and prompt
businesses to try and recoup some of the expenses. While bigger
grocery and fuel bills also strain household budgets, Federal
Reserve policy makers this week said the upward pressure on
inflation is expected to be “transitory.”  “The headline number is being driven by the usual
suspects -- energy and food,” said  Ryan Sweet , a senior
economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania , who correctly forecast the rise in the core CPI.
“Strip those out and inflation is relatively subdued.
Businesses are going to have a difficult time passing on the
higher costs because consumers are still price-sensitive.”  The forecast gain in consumer prices was based on the
median of 77 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Estimates ranged
from gains of 0.2 percent to 0.6 percent.  The increase in the consumer price index included a higher
prices for new vehicles, airfares and services.  Jobless Claims  Fewer Americans filed first-time claims for unemployment
insurance payments for a third week in the last four, indicating
progress in the labor market, another Labor Department report
showed.  Applications for jobless benefits decreased 16,000 in the
period ended March 12 to 385,000, in line with the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, Labor Department figures
showed today. The four-week average of claims dropped to the
lowest level since July 2008.  Stock-index futures held gains after the reports. The
contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.5 percent to
1,272.2 at 8:49 a.m. in  New York . Treasuries fell, pushing up
the yield on the benchmark 10-year note to 3.25 percent from
3.17 percent.  Economists projected core gauge would rise 0.1 percent,
according to the survey median.  Over 12 Months  Overall consumer prices increased 2.1 percent in the 12
months ended February, compared with a 1.6 percent year-over-
year gain the prior month. The core CPI rose 1.1 percent from
February 2010.  Energy costs increased 3.4 percent from a month earlier,
the most since December. Gasoline prices jumped 4.7 percent
after a 3.5 percent gain.  Food costs rose 0.6 percent, driven by meats, dairy
products and fruits and vegetables.  Customers “recognize that in many cases they’re spending
more money today than they were 30 days ago for items that are
in their pantry,” Brian Cornell, chief executive officer of
Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart’s Sam’s Club chain, said
March 8 at a conference.  Today’s report also showed owners-equivalent rent, one of
the categories designed to track rental prices, rose 0.1
percent. Mounting foreclosures are restraining homeownership,
driving up demand for rental housing.  Medical Care  The cost of medical care increased 0.4 percent, the most
since September.  Airfares increased 2.1 percent, the biggest gain since
October, and new-vehicle prices rose 1 percent the most since
October 2009.  Apparel costs declined 0.9 percent in February, the biggest
decrease since July 2006, today’s report showed. San Francisco-
based Gap, the largest U.S. apparel chain, is watching the price
of raw materials.  “Like all apparel companies, we are dealing with the
inflationary pressures from the increase in cotton pricing,”
Glenn Murphy, chief executive officer, said in a Feb. 24
teleconference. “We have to acknowledge the fact there was
going to be inflationary pressure being felt by ourselves and
everybody else through 2011.” He said Gap was going to be
“much smarter about our promotional decision making.”  The Fed on March 15 maintained its plan for so-called
quantitative easing, under which it’ll complete a second round
of bond purchases by June. The central bank indicated it will
keep the benchmark interest rate near zero for an “extended
period,” and said “longer-term inflation expectations have
remained stable, and measures of underlying inflation have been
subdued.”  ‘Firmer Footing’  “The economic recovery is on a firmer footing,” Fed
officials said in a statement after their meeting. While “the
recent increases in the prices of energy and other commodities
are currently putting upward pressure on inflation,” these
effects are expected to be “transitory,” they said.  The CPI is the broadest of three monthly price gauges from
the Labor Department, because it includes goods and services.
Almost 60 percent of the CPI covers prices consumers pay for
services ranging from medical visits to airline fares and movie
tickets.  Data yesterday showed February producer prices climbed 1.6
percent, the most since June 2009, reflecting gains in fuel and
the biggest jump in food costs since 1974. The core PPI, which
excludes food and fuel, rose 0.2 percent, less than half the
gain in January. Earlier this week, a report showed the cost of
goods imported into the U.S. rose 1.4 percent, led by
commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra at   schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  