-- 
Crude Oil Gains as Libya Violence Intensifies; UBS Raises Brent Forecast

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-03-17T08:37:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/crude-oil-gains-as-libya-violence-intensifies-ubs-raises-brent-forecast.html
Oil rose for a second day in  New
York  as fighting in Libya,  Africa ’s third-largest producer,
renewed concern Middle East supplies may be threatened by
escalating civil unrest.  Futures advanced as much as 1.1 percent after the U.S.
signaled it favored allowing foreign intervention against Libyan
leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s forces. UBS AG raised its 2011  Brent
crude  forecast because of the turmoil. Oil climbed yesterday on
concern violence in Bahrain will spill into Saudi Arabia while
prices dropped earlier today on speculation Japan’s earthquake
will curb demand.  “Tension in Libya and Bahrain is good support for the
crude oil market,” said  Ken Hasegawa , an energy trading manager
at broker Newedge in  Tokyo . “We still have some risk coming out
of the Middle East.”  Crude for April delivery rose as much as $1.11 to $99.09 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was at $98.88 at 4:32 p.m. Singapore time.
Yesterday, the contract climbed 80 cents, or 0.8 percent, to
$97.98. Prices are 18 percent higher than a year ago.  Brent crude for May settlement advanced $1.09, or 1
percent, $111.69 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The April contract rose $2.10, or 1.9 percent, to
$110.62 yesterday, when it expired.  Gasoline futures for April gained 1.4 cents in New York to
$2.8580 a gallon.  Brent Forecast  UBS raised its Brent crude projection to $103.75 a barrel
from $85, analysts led by Melbourne-based Gordon Ramsay said in
a report dated yesterday. The bank increased its 2012 estimate
by 12 percent to $95.  The Obama administration signaled its readiness to vote
today at the  United Nations  to authorize the imposition of a no-
fly zone over  Libya  and other military actions to protect
civilians.  “We are discussing very seriously and leading efforts in
the Security Council over a range of actions that we believe
could be effective in protecting civilians,” U.S. Ambassador
Susan Rice told reporters yesterday after more than seven hours
of negotiations on a draft resolution presented by the U.K.,  France  and Lebanon.  The U.S. suggested the addition of a provision allowing
foreign forces to halt “attacks by air, land and sea forces”
loyal to Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi.  Middle East  Regional unrest, which has cut Libya’s crude production by
1 million barrels a day and toppled the leaders of Tunisia and
Egypt, has reached  Saudi Arabia ’s neighbors Yemen, Oman and
Bahrain, the island-kingdom where a Sunni family rules the
majority Shiite population.  Bahrain yesterday declared a three-month state of emergency
after troops from Saudi Arabia and other Gulf states arrived to
help quell a month of protests driven by Shiites calling for
democracy and civil rights.  The island nation is connected by a 25-mile long causeway
to Saudi Arabia’s Eastern Province, the source of most Saudi oil
production and home to many of its Shiite population.  Oil earlier fell as much as 1.4 percent as Tokyo Electric
Power Co. workers struggled to contain radiation at a nuclear
plant stricken after a magnitude 9 earthquake on March 11. The
temblor, the largest ever recorded, has shut factories,
refineries and power generators and may result in a 0.9 percent
decrease in  Japan ’s gross domestic product this year, according
to BNP Paribas SA.  “It’s still possible for oil to drop further based on the
situation in Japan,” said Hasegawa. “Demand for crude will
have to fall because the closure of several refineries. But on
the other side we need more products imported because we can’t
produce on our own.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  