-- 
Danisco Lifts Forecast Third Time, Boosting DuPont’s Return

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-17T15:11:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/danisco-profit-beats-analyst-estimates-lifts-forecast.html
Danisco A/S lifted this year’s
profit forecast for a third time after quarterly earnings beat
estimates, boosting DuPont Co.’s potential returns on its agreed
$5.8 billion bid for the world’s largest food-ingredients maker.  Danisco raised its sales forecast by 1.3 percent to 15.5
billion kroner ($2.92 billion) for the year through April, and
lifted its net income guidance by 3.8 percent to 1.35 billion
kroner, the Copenhagen-based company said today. A faster-than-
expected recovery at its sweeteners unit prompted the move.  The improved outlook will support DuPont Chief Executive
Officer  Ellen Kullman ’s decision to outbid rivals for the
company. It may also fuel opposition from some investors,
including hedge fund Elliott Associates LP, who say the takeover
undervalues Danisco. DuPont extended a deadline for shareholders
to accept the offer to April 1 to get Chinese and European Union
regulatory approval and may have to postpone it further to April
29, Danisco Chief Executive Officer Tom Knutzen said today.  “We’re pleased with this very strong quarter but the
overall case for Danisco hasn’t changed substantially since
DuPont’s bid,” Knutzen said in a phone interview. “The overall
market conditions are the same and we still recommend the bid.”  China Competition  Danisco has cut jobs and overhauled the sweeteners unit,
which has suffered from increased competition from  China  and a
decline in prices for the sugar alternative xylitol. “The
turnaround has been very fast, much faster than we expected,”
Knutzen said.  Net income of 310 million kroner in the three months ending
Jan. 31 compared with a 354 million-krone loss a year earlier,
when Danisco wrote down the value of the sweetener unit. Profit
beat the average estimate of 262 million kroner in a Bloomberg
survey of analysts. Sales rose 18 percent to 3.88 billion
kroner.  “Today’s results are consistent with our expectations,”
Kullman said, repeating that the offer is “full, fair, and
firm,” according to an e-mailed statement. “DuPont’s offer for
Danisco also fully anticipated the company’s long term outlook,
which Danisco reaffirmed today.”  Sales growth will slow in the next fiscal year and
profitability will be lower, hurt by “substantial raw material
price inflation,” Knutzen said in today’s statement.  Margins Under Pressure  Sales growth will be 6 percent to 7 percent and the company
will have a margin for earnings before interest and tax of 15
percent, compared with about 15.5 percent for the current year,
he said.  Danisco said today that no other bidder has approached the
company since DuPont’s offer.  Elliott Associates argues the DuPont bid undervalues the
company by at least $320 million. Danske Capital, which owns 1.7
percent of Danisco shares, has said it is “lukewarm” to it.  “It’s realistic that DuPont would have to lift its offer
to get the required 90 percent of shareholders to accept the
bid,” Jens Houe Thomsen, an analyst at Silkeborg, Denmark-based
Jyske Bank A/S, said in a note. “It will be hard for DuPont to
justify to its owners that it needs to lift the bid when
there’re no competing offers. The outcome may be the deal falls
through and we therefore recommend selling Danisco shares.”  Danisco shares rose 0.2 percent to 661.5 kroner at 3:56
p.m. in Copenhagen. The shares haven’t traded above DuPont’s
665-krone offer price since Jan. 10, the first day of trading
after the offer was announced.  The bid is 25 percent more than Danisco’s closing share
price before the deal was announced. Wilmington, Delaware-based
DuPont will also assume $500 million of Danisco’s net debt. The
deal would be DuPont’s largest takeover since the acquisition of
genetically modified seed-maker Pioneer Hi-Bred International
Inc. for $7.7 billion in 1999.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net . 