-- 
De Niro Plans Mega-Merger; ‘Deadhead’ Dad; Nazi Fighters: Film

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-03-17T02:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/de-niro-plans-mega-merger-deadhead-dad-nazi-fighters-film.html
Talk about your magic pill.  In the manic, nonsensical thriller “ Limitless ,”
struggling writer Eddie Morra (Bradley Cooper) discovers a clear
little tablet that makes him smarter, richer and more creative.  As a viewer, you’ll feel dumber and poorer. Neil Burger’s
film is barely coherent enough to follow without the aid of your
own pharmaceuticals.  Eddie is a divorced, disheveled  New Yorker  with chronic
writer’s block until his former brother-in-law introduces him to
NZT, an untested, unapproved drug that’s being peddled on the
black market.  Within days, Eddie has finished his novel, made millions in
the stock market, learned French and become an expert on
everything from poker to cancer.  He also attracts the attention of a slick billionaire
  Robert De Niro ) who asks him to broker a mega-merger. But
things get sticky when Eddie starts to run out of pills and gets
chased by a Russian loan shark, suspicious cops and a mystery
man.  Cooper, best known as part of the comic ensemble in “The
Hangover,” struggles here as a serious leading man. De Niro’s
role is blandly predictable, while Abbie Cornish is a pleasant
visual diversion as Eddie’s off-again, on-again girlfriend.  “Limitless,” from Relativity Media, opens tomorrow across
the U.S. Rating: *1/2  ‘Music Never Stopped’  Shakespeare called music “the food of love.” It may also
be the fuel of memory.  “ The Music Never Stopped ” is a moving film based on the
true story of a brain-damaged man who learned to communicate
when stimulated by the songs of his favorite 1960s rock bands.
Gabriel (Lou Taylor Pucci) has no short-term memory following
brain surgery in 1986, but he responds to the music of his youth
as if it were still 1968.  The film revolves around Gabriel’s relationship with his
father Henry (J.K. Simmons), a straight-arrow mechanical
engineer who had a falling out with his teenage hippie son and
didn’t see him for almost two decades.  When Gabriel is found homeless in  New York  and suffering
from a brain tumor, his dad dedicates his life to helping him
and rebuilding the close bond they once had. Though their
musical tastes differ radically -- dad favors Count Basie, while
Gabriel prefers the Grateful Dead -- Henry becomes an honorary
Deadhead and even attends one of the band’s concerts with his
son in a tie-dye T-shirt and bandanna.  Two women -- Gabriel’s mom (Cara Seymour) and his therapist
(Julia Ormond) -- also play key roles in his partial recovery.  Director Jim Kohlberg, working from a script inspired by
famed neurologist Oliver Sacks’s case study, falters with a few
treacly moments. But mostly the movie inspires and amazes.  “The Music Never Stopped,” from Roadside Attractions,
opens tomorrow in New York, Los Angeles,  San Francisco ,  Seattle ,  Kansas City ,  Missouri , and  Portland ,  Oregon . Rating: ***  ‘Winter in Wartime’  Set in Nazi-occupied Holland near the end of World War II,
“ Winter in Wartime ” is an enthralling family drama that
tackles larger issues of courage, treachery and personal
responsibility.  Based on a semi-autobiographical novel by Jan Terlouw,
Martin Koolhoven’s film tells the story of 13-year-old Michiel,
who aids a wounded British paratrooper shot down by the Germans.  The boy’s father, who is also the town’s mayor, cooperates
with the Nazis to protect his family and the local residents.
But Michiel idolizes his uncle Ben, a resistance fighter who
shows up with a wireless radio and suitcase filled with ration
cards.  Hiding Soldier  While helping the British soldier, who is hiding out in the
snowy woods, the boy learns about a shadowy group of informers
who are working with the Nazis. When a dead German soldier is
found in the forest, everyone in town is under suspicion and
deadly secrets are revealed.  The cast, led by Martijn Lakemeier as the boy and Yorick
van Wageningen as his uncle, is uniformly superb. And the
cinematography of the harsh winter landscape by Guido van Gennep
almost makes you shiver.  “Winter in Wartime,” from  Sony Pictures Classics , opens
tomorrow in New York and  Los Angeles . Rating: ****  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 