-- 
Dimon May Visit JPMorgan’s Tokyo Offices Next Week in Wake of Earthquake

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-03-17T15:51:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/dimon-may-visit-jpmorgan-s-tokyo-offices-next-week-in-wake-of-earthquake.html
Jamie Dimon may fly to  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Tokyo offices next week to see how employees are
coping with the March 11 earthquake and the threat from
radiation leaks at a nuclear power plant northeast of the city,
a person at the bank familiar with the situation said.  The 55-year-old chief executive officer is in Europe for a
previously scheduled business trip and was planning to go to
China next week, according to the person, who asked not to be
named because Dimon’s schedule is private. The travel plans
aren’t yet decided and may still change, the person said.  JPMorgan, the second-largest U.S. bank by assets, has the
largest risk exposure of any U.S. bank in  Japan , with $53.9
billion in “cross-border outstandings,” which include loans,
securities, foreign-currency contracts, derivatives and local-
country investments, among other assets, according to a March 14
research note by KBW Inc., an investment bank that specializes
in financial firms.  JPMorgan, based in New York, also had $64 billion more in
“commitments” outstanding in Japan as of the end of last year,
according to the bank’s disclosures with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Commitments include outstanding letters of
credit and undrawn credit lines. None of the data takes into
account measures the company has used to hedge its risk in
Japan.    Jennifer Zuccarelli , a bank spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  The U.S. State Department urged U.S. citizens to defer
travel to Japan and said citizens already there should consider
leaving.    Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  had the next highest amount of
risk among U.S. banks with $33.6 billion in cross-border
outstandings, followed by  Morgan Stanley (MS)  with $19.1 billion, and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  with $17 billion, KBW researchers wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in Washington at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  