-- 
Distressed-Debt Exchanges May Not Be ‘Cure-All’ for Defaults, Moody’s Says

-- B y   R i c h a r d   B r a v o
-- 
2011-03-17T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/distressed-debt-exchanges-may-not-be-cure-all-for-defaults-moody-s-says.html
Distressed-debt exchanges aren’t a
“cure-all” and may have only postponed future bankruptcies or
defaults for several companies including Clear Channel
Communications Inc. and Energy Future Holdings Corp., according
to Moody’s Investors Service.  Some companies seeking to rework their capital structure
and address liquidity concerns were still left with
unsustainable debt levels even after the transactions and will
require further restructuring to avoid default, Moody’s analysts
led by Lenny J. Ajzenman wrote today in a report.  Distressed exchanges have allowed many companies to improve
their credit profiles as the global speculative-grade default
rate fell to 3.1 percent at the end of 2010 from 13.1 percent a
year earlier, according to Moody’s. When about $600 billion
comes due between 2013 and 2015, lower-rated companies could be
vulnerable to another wave of distressed exchanges or
bankruptcies, Moody’s said.  In a distressed-debt exchange, borrowers offer their
creditors lower-priced securities in exchange for the current
debt. Investors who agree to the exchange believe they will
receive a superior return than if the company filed for
bankruptcy.  “To date, the 2009 and 2010 distressed exchanges have been
reasonably successful in staving off subsequent bankruptcies or
missed interest and principal payments,” according to the
report. “However, there is a still-significant number of
companies that had distressed exchanges and remain low-rated.”  Caesars, Clear Channel  Among companies that executed distressed-debt exchanges in
the past two years, 21, or 25 percent, had a corporate family
rating of Caa2 or less as of Feb. 28, Moody’s said.  They include San Antonio-based Clear Channel, the media
company taken private by Bain Capital LLC and Thomas H. Lee
Partners LP in 2008; Energy Future, the company formerly known
as TXU Corp. that was bought by KKR & Co. and TPG Capital in
2007; and Caesars Entertainment Corp., the world’s biggest
casino company formerly called Harrah’s that was taken private
by Apollo Management LP and TPG.  Seven of the 115 non-financial companies that executed
distressed exchanges in 2009 and 2010 subsequently filed for
bankruptcy or defaulted, according to the report.  “Distressed exchanges have been beneficial for many
companies, but they are not a cure-all,” Moody’s said. “For a
number of companies that remain significantly overleveraged or
operate in sectors that have not recovered strongly from the
recession, the risk of another default remains high.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Bravo in  New York  at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 