-- 
Draghi Backed by Hedge Fund Managers to Succeed Trichet as ECB President

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   M a r k   G i l b e r t
-- 
2011-03-17T16:56:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/draghi-backed-by-hedge-fund-managers-to-take-over-ecb-correct-.html
Italy’s  Mario Draghi  should succeed  Jean-Claude Trichet  as president of the  European Central Bank 
when the incumbent’s term ends in October, a panel of hedge fund
managers said.  Draghi’s experience as head of the Financial Stability
Board, where he helped to rewrite global financial rules, make
him the most qualified candidate to succeed Trichet, investors
from RAB Capital Plc, Sturgeon Capital LLP and Signet Group said
at the Bloomberg Link Hedge Funds conference in London today.  With Draghi, now governor of the Bank of Italy, “you’ve
got someone with impeccable credentials who’s not necessarily
aligned to Germany politically but who thinks” along Bundesbank
lines, said Charles Kirwan-Taylor, chief executive officer at
RAB, which had $1 billion under management at the end of 2010.  European leaders are looking for a Trichet successor just
as they try to convince voters to offer more financial support
to debt-strapped nations across the euro region’s periphery.
With German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government contributing
more than any other to European bailouts, Draghi’s candidacy
depends on her support.  “As they take on this financial-stability mandate they can
say someone like Draghi” is well qualified and they “could
accept a non-German,” said Robert Marquardt, chairman and co-
head of investment management at Signet Group, which manages or
advises about $1.7 billion for institutional and private
clients.  ‘Nationality’  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in an
interview with Le Figaro published March 5 that Europeans are no
longer “judging the quality of people based on their
nationality.”  All three financiers said post-crisis the ECB’s inflation
fighting-mandate will have to be expanded to include financial
stability, which may strengthen Draghi’s case. Other candidates
include  Germany ’s Klaus Regling, who heads the European
Financial Stability Facility, and Finland’s Erkki Liikanen.  Clemente Cappello, chief investment officer at Sturgeon,
said Draghi is a “strong candidate” who has “not been afraid
to say ‘no’ to politicians.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  