-- 
Dubai’s Shares Advance Ahead of G-7 Meeting, Outweighing Bahrain Unrest

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-03-17T13:23:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/dubai-shares-retreat-as-regional-unrest-escalates-bahrain-resumes-trading.html
Dubai’s shares advanced the third
time in five days as optimism the Group of Seven nations will
move to calm markets after Japan’s earthquake overshadowed
unrest in Bahrain. Oil advanced.    Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , builder of the world’s tallest
tower, rallied 2.5 percent.  Dubai Financial Market (DFM)  PJSC, the
only Gulf Arab stock market to sell shares to the public, also
rose 2.5 percent. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  gained 1.2 percent, the
most since March 13, to 1,472.02 at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai,
bringing the weekly gain to 1.5 percent. Bahrain’s BB All Share
Index rose 0.1 percent as trading resumed after a one-day
suspension.  Gains in European shares indicate a “slightly improving
macro-trading environment,” said Akram Annous, Middle East and
North Africa strategist at Al Mal Capital PSC in Dubai.
“Investors picked up stocks where they saw value. Relative to
the big bounce in  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar, some names in the
United Arab Emirates have lagged.”  Finance officials from the G-7 will hold talks on markets
and  Japan ’s economy tomorrow after the March 11 earthquake in
Japan triggered a drop in global stocks and drove the nation’s
currency to a post-World War II high. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index
climbed as much as 2 percent, snapping a six-day slide.  Oil rose for a second day, topping $100 a barrel in  New
York , as concern political unrest may cut Middle Eastern exports
countered estimates that the earthquake in Japan will curtail
fuel demand. Crude for April delivery rose as much as 2.8
percent to $100.03 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange . The six nations of the Gulf
Cooperation Council supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  Bahrain Protest  Dubai’s measure has slumped 9.4 percent since Tunisia’s
Zine El Abidine Ben Ali was ousted by a popular movement on Jan.
14. The decline has left the 30 companies in Dubai’s benchmark
index valued at about 6.2 times estimated earnings, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with 12 times for
Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  and 11 times for Qatar’s  QE Index. (DSM)   About 97 million shares were traded in Dubai today, compared
with a six-month daily average of 122 million. Dubai Financial
Market gained the most since March 13 to 1.23 dirhams. Emaar
also gained the most since March 13 to 2.85 dirhams.  Bahraini security forces arrested six opposition leaders, a
political group said, a day after imposing a military curfew on
parts of the country and forcing protesters from a central
roundabout in the capital Manama. Unrest that toppled leaders in
Egypt and Tunisia has also expanded to Oman, Yemen and Saudi
Arabia.  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  rose 0.4 percent.  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  lost 0.6 percent. Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30)  advanced
0.4 percent and Qatar’s gauge gained 0.8 percent. Kuwait’s
measure increased 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  