-- 
Leading Indicators in U.S. Rise 0.8% in Eighth Consecutive Monthly Gain

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-03-17T14:41:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/leading-indicators-in-u-s-rise-0-8-in-eighth-consecutive-monthly-gain.html
The index of U.S. leading
indicators rose in February, the eighth consecutive gain and a
sign supporting the  Federal Reserve ’s statement that the
recovery has gained traction.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months increased 0.8 percent after rising 0.1
percent in January, the New York-based group said today.
Economists forecast a 0.9 percent gain, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Better employment prospects have increased  consumer
confidence  alongside strengthening business investment and
exports, indicating the economy will continue to grow even as
housing remains depressed. U.S. central bank policy makers said
this week the recovery is on a “firmer footing” while the
labor market is improving ‘gradually.”  “Whether it’s jobs, income, spending, just about
everything in the economy in February looked pretty decent with
the exception of the plunge in housing activity,”  Stuart Hoffman , chief economist at PNC Financial Services Group Inc. in
Pittsburgh, said before the report.  Estimates of 54 economists in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from an increase of 0.1 percent to 1.2 percent.  Eight of the 10 indicators in the leading index contributed
to the gain, led by a widening interest-rate spread. The spread,
or difference between the overnight federal funds rate and the
yield on the 10-year Treasury note, boosted the index by 0.36
point.  Jobless Claims  A fall in the average weekly initial jobless claims and an
increase in stock prices also contributed positively to the
index.  Two of the index components were negative. A drop in
authorized plans for new construction subtracted 0.22 point from
the measure. Permits, a proxy for future construction, fell 8.2
percent to an all-time low 517,000 annual pace in February,
Commerce Department figures showed yesterday.  New orders for non-defense capital goods also took away
from the index.  Manufacturing has led the U.S. economic expansion, boosting
employment, as new orders picked up from U.S. companies and
firms abroad. Factories created 33,000 jobs in February after a
53,000 increase in January, and Federal Reserve reports this
week showed manufacturing continued to accelerate in the New
York and Philadelphia regions.  “From the industrial market, we’re seeing good, solid
demand holding at about the same level as we saw in the fourth
quarter,” Ron Slaymaker, vice president of  investor relations 
at Texas Instruments Inc., said on a conference call with
analysts March 8. “I think demand from automotive we certainly
would characterize as strong.”  Coincident Indicators  The Conference Board’s index of coincident indicators, a
gauge of current economic activity, rose 0.2 percent after a
revised 0.3 percent gain in January.  The coincident index tracks payrolls, incomes, sales and
production -- the measures used by the  National Bureau of
Economic Research  to determine the beginning and end of U.S.
recessions.  The gauge of lagging indicators increased 0.2 percent last
month. The index measures business lending, length of
unemployment, service prices and ratios of labor costs,
inventories and  consumer credit .  Seven of the 10 indicators that make up the leading index
are known ahead of time: stock prices, jobless claims, building
permits, consumer expectations, the yield curve, factory hours
and supplier delivery times.  The Conference Board estimates new orders for  consumer
goods , bookings for capital goods and the  money supply  adjusted
for inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  