-- 
Egypt’s First Vote After Mubarak’s Ouster May Set Pace of Democracy Shift

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-03-17T12:54:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/egypt-s-first-vote-after-mubarak-s-ouster-may-set-pace-of-democracy-shift.html
Egypt’s first vote since the fall
of President  Hosni Mubarak  may determine how fast the country
returns to civilian rule, as campaigners for a rapid handover to
stabilize the economy compete with those who say democracy
should be entrenched first.  A March 19 referendum on constitutional changes, drafted by
a committee appointed by army leaders who have been running the
country since Mubarak’s resignation last month, asks Egyptians
to approve measures including  term limits  for presidents and
fuller judicial oversight of voting. They are aimed at paving
the way for the election of a new parliament and president,
possibly within the next six months.  Backers of the amendments such as the Muslim Brotherhood,
banned under Mubarak, say they will help end turmoil that is
hurting the economy.  Egypt ’s stock market has been shut for
nearly seven weeks, tourists have stayed away and factory output
has been hit by strikes. ‘No’ campaigners advocate delaying
elections and rewriting the constitution from scratch. They say
rushing the transition will weaken democracy without bringing
stability, and benefit the former ruling party and established
forces like the Brotherhood at the expense of activists who led
the popular uprising.  “It’s a democratic battle despite time being so tight,”
said  Amr Hamzawy , a political science professor at Cairo
University and a former member of the so-called Committee of
Wise Men that meditated between the regime and protesters.
“It’s unclear what the outcome of the referendum will be.”  ‘Fraught With Uncertainty’  Egypt’s political transition is still “fraught with
uncertainty” and that is damaging the “fiscal position and
broader economic performance,” Moody’s Investors Service said
yesterday, justifying its decision to cut the debt rating one
level. Yields on benchmark 10-year dollar bonds, at about 6.8
percent, have jumped more than 160 basis points this year.  Stocks haven’t traded since Jan. 27, when the revolt
against Mubarak began to gather pace, and authorities have
dropped several attempts to reopen the bourse, where companies
such as  Orascom Construction Industries (ORSD)  are listed.  Orascom
Construction ’s global depositary receipts are trading close to a
two-year low in  London . They gained 1.8 percent to $35.25 in
London trading yesterday.  Finance Minister Samir Radwan has forecast economic growth
of 4 percent this fiscal year, down from a pre-crisis estimate
of 6 percent.  The Muslim Brotherhood endorsed the amendments because they
will free the army for duties like guarding national security,
and clear the way for reviving the economy, said Khayrat El-
Shater, a leading member.  ‘End Quickly’  “We want the transitional rule to end quickly so that we
can project an image of stability and encourage foreign and
local investments to help the economic development that we
desperately need,” he told reporters in Cairo yesterday.  The proposed amendments would limit presidents to two four-
year terms, ease restrictions on who can run for the post, and
let judges scrutinize the balloting when elections are held.  Those elections may produce a  parliament  “dominated by the  National Democratic Party  and the Muslim Brotherhood” if the
amendments are approved, said Ziad Elelaimy, a member of the
Alliance of the Youths’ Revolution, a coalition of protesting
groups which is campaigning for a ‘no’ vote.  “They are able to organize themselves and prepare for
quick elections,” he said. “The groups behind the revolution
haven’t yet organized themselves.” The NDP was Mubarak’s ruling
party.  Forming Parties  Restrictions on forming political parties will be eased
after the referendum and parliamentary elections will probably
be in September, allowing new parties time to organize and
promote their platforms, Major General Mamdouh Shahine, the
assistant defense minister for legal and constitutional affairs,
told Al Masry Al Youm newspaper.  El-Shater said yesterday that the Brotherhood agreed on the
idea of forming an election alliance with other opposition
groups, including some such as the Wafd and Tagammu parties that
have rejected the proposed amendments. That will “assure the
people that the Brotherhood will not seek a majority in
parliament,” he said.  About 45 million Egyptians, more than half of the country’s
population, are eligible to vote, and must accept or reject the
amendments as a single package.  ‘Legislative Void’  A ‘no’ vote will leave Egypt facing a “legislative void,”
Mohammed Attia, the head of the judicial committee that will
supervise the referendum, told reporters.  One of the amendments in the package would create a
constituent assembly to write a new constitution after
elections, and should meet the ‘no’ campaign’s demand for a
brand-new charter, said Sobhi Saleh, a member of the Muslim
Brotherhood and of the committee appointed by the ruling
military council to draft the changes. He said that by delaying
elections, some of the ‘no’ campaigners “want to leave the
country without institutions and in a state of chaos until they
can find some supporters.”  ‘No’ advocates such as  Mohamed ElBaradei , a leader of the
anti-Mubarak movement and former United Nations atomic agency
chief, say holding elections under an amended form of the
constitution and then writing a new one is the wrong way round.  Insult to Revolution  “New regime equals new democratic constitution reflecting
national will,” ElBaradei, who has announced plans to contest
presidential elections, wrote in English on his Twitter account.
“Keeping Mubarak’s constitution, even temporarily, is insult to
revolution.”  Campaigners against the amendments also say they fail to
curb the powers of the president, a measure they say is
necessary to prevent Mubarak-era abuses.  Regardless of the referendum outcome, officials and voters
said it marks the start of a new kind of electoral politics in
Egypt. Voting under Mubarak was regularly overshadowed by low
turnout, violence and widespread allegations of rigging. Anger
over alleged irregularities in last November’s parliamentary
ballot helped fuel the mass protests that ended Mubarak’s rule.  “We hope that everyone will participate in the
referendum,” Attia said. “This is the first time, I think, in
Egypt’s history that participation in political life takes place
in an atmosphere of transparency and integrity.”  Mohammed Abdel Wahed, a 41-year-old accountant, said his
planned ‘no’ vote will be the first ballot he has ever cast.  “Before, there was no use in voting, the result was a
foregone conclusion,” he said. “Now, my vote will count. It’s
a different story after the revolution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 