-- 
Elegant Party Animals Hang Out in London Watteau Show: Review

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-03-17T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/elegant-party-animals-hang-out-in-london-watteau-exhibit-martin-gayford.html
The  Royal Academy  has redeemed
itself.  “Modern British Sculpture,” an exhibition that opened
there in January, is eccentric, sprawling and hard to comprehend
(I’m still trying to work out what Queen Victoria is doing in the
middle of it). “Watteau: The Drawings” is the opposite: wisely
selected, perfectly mounted and crammed with beautiful things,
it’s just about the best show of the year so far in London.  Antoine Watteau (1684-1721) was among the greatest of
French painters. Indeed, a good deal of what you might think of
as characteristically French in art -- lightness, elegance,
grace, a bittersweet sense of life -- begins with him.  Right from the beginning, Watteau’s drawings -- almost 90
are on display in the show -- have been considered the best of
his work. He had an amazing ability, using red, black and white
chalks to catch the subtle nuances of things: a glance, the fall
of a woman’s dress, a gesture, the gleam of a naked body. In a
few strokes of chalk, he could show you not just what something
looked like, but how it felt.  It seems he drew in a sketchbook constantly, and without any
particular picture in mind. When he came to make a painting, he
selected from this image bank, sometimes years after making the
drawing. It long has been believed that when he was received into
the Academie Royale de Peinture et de Sculpture, a category of
art had to be invented to describe what he did, the “fete
galante.” There’s a scholarly disagreement as to whether that’s
true. It doesn’t change the fact that most of Watteau’s pictures
are of people hanging around outdoors doing nothing specific.  Party Snaps  They exchange amorous glances, listen to music, maybe dance
or just stand around. In other words, these are paintings with
little in the way of a formal subject such as Biblical events or
classical mythology. These are pictures of parties. The basis of
them was his drawings. Effectively, Watteau was collecting
glimpses of passing life on paper, then collaging them together
into compositions. Not surprisingly, the original glimpses
themselves -- the drawings -- are fresher and more delicate.  His paintings can be terrific too. Those wanting to compare
and contrast can make a short journey through west  London  to the
 Wallace Collection , which has one of the finest groups of
Watteau oils. Among them is “Lady at Her Toilet” (c. 1717-19),
a rare and openly erotic, painting of the nude. A French style
of sexiness, elegantly flirtatious, seems to begin with Watteau.  The Wallace’s Watteaus have been rehung with a couple of
loans, and there’s also an exhibition, “Esprit et Verite:
Watteau and His Circle,” focusing on the painter’s friend and
patron, Jean de Julienne. This man, a textile tycoon, was the
Charles Saatchi of early 18th-century Paris: a wealthy collector
who was also a promoter of contemporary art.  This show reconstructs de Julienne’s collection, and
considers how Watteau fitted into it. He came out of a tradition,
of course, or rather several: Rubens, Venetian art, Dutch genre
painting were influences. Still, there was something quietly
revolutionary about him too. Watteau’s work was all about his own
intuitive feelings and impressions. That’s quite modern.  “Watteau: The Drawings” is at the  Royal Academy , supported
by Japan Tobacco International and Region Holdings; “Esprit et
Verite: Watteau and His Circle” is at the Wallace Collection.
Both exhibitions run through June 5. Information:
 http://www.wallacecollection.org  and
 http://www.royalacademy.org.uk .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 