-- 
Japan Uses Helicopters, Water Cannons, Troops in Battle to Quell Meltdown

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-03-17T13:34:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/helicopters-dump-water-on-japan-nuclear-fuel-rods-as-radiation-risks-rise.html
  Japan ’s nuclear crisis escalated as
helicopters and riot-control water cannons were enlisted in an
effort to prevent radioactive pollution spreading from the
nuclear industry’s worst catastrophe since Chernobyl.  Helicopters doused 30 metric tons of water on pools used to
cool spent fuel rods. No change in radiation was reported after
four bombing runs by the aircraft,  Kyodo News  said citing plant
operator Tokyo Electric Power Co. A plan to have police shoot a
high-pressure stream of water at the reactor structure was
called off tonight. Tokyo Electric may connect a power cable to
the plant later today, a company official said.  “We are still reviewing the result of water spraying by
helicopters,” said Akiteru Kobayashi, head of nuclear facility
management.    Tokyo  Electric’s failure to end the threat of radiation
from the Fukushima plant has prompted the U.S., U.K., France,  Germany  and  Australia  to advise their citizens to consider
leaving Tokyo. About 2.3 trillion yen ($29 billion) has been
wiped from Tepco’s market value since the March 11 quake,
subsequent tsunami and a series of explosions and fires
devastated the 40-year-old power station, 135 miles (220
kilometers) north of Tokyo.  Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency said today
there is a possibility of no water at the No. 4 reactor’s spent-
fuel cooling pool. If exposed to air, the fuel rods could decay,
catch fire and spew radioactive materials into the air. The
agency has detected no smoke or steam rising from the reactor,
spokesman Hidehiko Nishiyama said.  Fuel Rods  Exposure of spent-fuel rods to air “could result in
fracturing of the fuel rod cladding and escape of dangerous
radioactive fission products” such as iodine-131, cesium-137
and strontium-90, said Stephen Lincoln, an environmental chemist
at the University of Adelaide.  All water in the No. 4 reactor’s spent-fuel pond has
drained, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Chairman Gregory Jaczko told a congressional panel in  Washington  yesterday. Fuel
rods stored in three reactors at the Tokyo Electric plant are
exposed and releasing radiation, Yukiya Amano, head of the  International Atomic Energy Agency , said in Vienna before
departing for Tokyo. The plant has six reactors, three of which
have been damaged by explosions following the March 11 quake.  Helicopters are also being used to determine radiation
readings, water levels in the pool and damage to the reactors,
Tepco spokesman Kaoru Yoshida told reporters in Tokyo today.
Technicians were unable to inspect the facilities because of
high levels of radiation.  Radiation Levels  More than 320 workers are at the plant site today, from a
group of 50 engineers yesterday. Tokyo Electric evacuated 750
employees on Tuesday when radiation levels at Dai-Ichi spiked.  The recent increase in employees at the Dai-Ichi plant
could indicate that a work rotation is being implemented to
minimize  radiation exposure . Japan’s health ministry raised the
cumulative maximum legal exposure for nuclear workers to 250
millisieverts from 100 millisieverts on March 15 to enable
workers to stay longer on the site to prevent a nuclear
disaster.  Radiation levels have reached 10 millisieverts per hour in
some parts of the plant, said John Price, a Melbourne-based
consultant on industrial accidents and former member of the
safety policy unit at the National Nuclear Corporation U.K.  “That means they have an access time of 10 to 25 hours at
the most,” Price said in a telephone interview today. “At that
rate, you are going to go through workers very fast.”  Lack of Information  “We haven’t been able to get any of the latest data at any
spent fuel pools,” Tepco official Masahisa Otsuku said
yesterday. “We don’t have the latest water levels,
temperatures, none of the latest information for any of the four
reactors.”  Tepco said it’s building a power line to the Dai-Ichi
plant’s cooling systems, which were knocked out by the quake,
but was unable to say when the cable would be completed.  The failure of backup generators used to pump cooling water
caused explosions in at least three of the structures
surrounding the station’s reactors, as well as a fire in a pond
containing spent fuel rods.  The NRC’s Jaczko said radiation at the Japanese site is
fluctuating and at peak levels “would be lethal within a fairly
short period of time.”  His information came from NRC staff who were dispatched to
Japan to help with the response and have been in contact with
industry officials there, he said. Jaczko’s assessment prompted
the U.S. to recommend American citizens leave Japan.  France  and
Germany have already told their citizens to depart.  There have been more than 450 aftershocks since the
magnitude-9 temblor left hundreds of thousands stranded and
without power, with disruptions to food and water supplies. The
Japanese government has dispatched 100,000 troops to the
northeastern region.  The official death toll at 2 p.m. Tokyo time was 5,321
people, with 9,329 missing and 2,383 injured, the  National
Police Agency  said. The tsunami and fears of a meltdown at the
plant forced 451,059 people from their homes, and 385,549 were
evacuated, the police said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Fowler at 
 bfowler4@bloomberg.net  