-- 
Telkom South Africa Appoints Pinky Moholi as Its Fifth CEO in Eight Years

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-03-17T07:10:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/telkom-south-africa-appoints-pinky-moholi-as-its-chief-executive-officer.html
Telkom South  Africa  Ltd., the fixed-
line operator controlled by the country’s government, appointed
Nombulelo Pinky Moholi as its fifth chief executive officer in
eight years.  Moholi, an engineer with 23 years’ experience in the
telecommunications industry, takes over from acting CEO Jeffrey Hedberg, Pretoria-based Telkom said in a statement today.
Hedberg, who took the role in July last year when Reuben September left after his three-year contract ended, will stay on
as an adviser until the end of June.  “Of all the people that are currently a Telkom, I struggle
to find any other suitable candidate,” said Chris Gilmour, an
analyst at Absa Asset Management Private Clients. Investors now
need a clear strategic vision for the company, which has been
lacking for many years, on how she is going to help “regain
lost market share,” he said.  Moholi, managing director of Telkom’s South African
business, needs to fill vacant executive positions, including
the post of chief financial officer and head for its data center
operations. In February, Lazarus Zim was appointed as the
company’s fourth chairman since Telkom sold stock in an initial
public offering in 2003, as part of government’s efforts to
stabilize leadership at Africa’s largest fixed-line operator.  Stint at Nedbank  Moholi joined Telkom in 1994, where she spent 11 years
before joining Nedbank Group Ltd., the nation’s fourth-largest
bank, as chief strategy and corporate affairs officer, returning
to the fixed-line company in May 2009, the operator said. Telkom
followed a “rigorous evaluation process” and consulted with
the Department of Communications in making the appointment, it
said.  The South African government directly owns 40 percent of
the company’s shares, and has control over another 16 percent
owned by the Public Investment Corp., the state-employees’
pension funds investor.  The company on Feb. 10 said it would offer voluntary
severance packages to reduce its 23 000-strong workforce and
improve profitability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  