-- 
Elton John Drops Pole Dancers, Cleans Up for New York Concert

-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 
2011-03-17T09:10:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/elton-john-drops-pole-dancer-cleans-up-dresses-down-for-new-york-concert.html
Perhaps it’s something to do with
becoming a father. Elton John has cleaned up his act.  At New York’s  Madison Square Garden  last night, the U.K.
singer gave a preview of his new slimmed-down show that will be
rolling out across the U.S. over the next few months, and then
around the world through November.  This time, there are no inflatable breasts and phallic
bananas. The Las Vegas glitz of the Red Piano Tour is replaced
by a stark black stage. Instead of Pamela Anderson pole-dancing,
the veteran band studiously delivers 27 songs.  The jukebox of biggest hits kicks off promisingly with
“Funeral for a Friend/Love Lies Bleeding,” embellished with
flourishes from John’s longtime guitarist Davey Johnstone.
“Saturday Night’s Alright for Fighting” rocks so hard that
nobody seems to notice that it’s actually Wednesday.  Then John introduces “my idol”  Leon Russell  -- an
imposing figure who looks like  Santa Claus  and Gandalf rolled
into one. Russell, inducted this week into the Rock and Roll
Hall of Fame by John, joins him to perform tracks from their
album “the Union,” released last year.  Gregg Allman joins the two onstage to share the vocals on
“Gone to Shiloh.” The eight songs with Russell, such as “When
Love Is Dying,” are ambitious though rarely reach the heights
of John’s solo work.  John is dressed down for the Big Apple compared with his
usual flamboyance: He wears shades, a purple shirt and a dark
coat embroidered with a girl sprouting from a genie bottle.  Too Literal  He has replaced his sophisticated video screens used on
previous tours with some alarmingly literal effects. Golden
lighting is used for “Goodbye Yellow Brick Road,” blue for “I
Guess That’s Why They Call It the Blues” and a picture of a
flame for “Candle in the Wind.”  Things also go off the boil with a couple of songs from
1971’s “Madman Across the Water.”  “Rocket Man” from 1972 is stretched to breaking point
over 15 minutes with endless repeats of the title, just in case
we missed it the first time.  The accelerator kicks in just in time, with coruscating
versions of “The Bitch Is Back” and “Burn Down the Mission.”  The three-hour show isn’t John at his outrageous showman
best, though it shows why he is a consummate entertainer capable
of selling 250 million records. The crowd in the 20,000-capacity
arena waves lighters, sings every word, dances to “Crocodile
Rock” and cheers as John declares the hall his favorite venue.
He ends with an emotional encore of “Your Song,” dedicated to  New York , “a great city.”  Rating: ***.  Elton John is on Universal. Albums are available from about
$8.98 in the U.S, or 4.98 pounds in the U.K. Download fees vary
across services.  John’s tour dates are at  http://www.eltonjohn.com/concerts .  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in New York at  mbeech@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 