-- 
Foreign Embassies Urge Relocations on Japan Nuclear Crisis

-- B y   T e r j e   L a n g e l a n d
-- 
2011-03-17T01:43:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/embassies-urge-relocations-amid-radiation-risks-from-japan-nuclear-plant.html
The U.S. urged its citizens near
the earthquake-damaged nuclear power plant in  Japan  to evacuate
as it warned of ’’extremely high’’ levels of radiation, while
other countries advised their nationals to consider leaving the
Tokyo area or Japan altogether.  ’’We are recommending, as a precaution, that American
citizens who live within 50 miles (80 kilometers) of the
Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant evacuate the area or to take
shelter indoors if safe evacuation is not practical,’’ U.S.
Ambassador John Roos said in a statement today on the website of
the American embassy in Tokyo.  The U.K. advised British nationals to consider leaving the
area near the Fukushima plant as well as Tokyo, which is 135
miles to the south. Germany and France advised citizens to
consider leaving Japan, while  Belgium  and  Norway  recommended
leaving the nation. Governments and airlines in France,  Russia ,
Belgium,  Sri Lanka  and China made airplanes available for
citizens wishing to evacuate.  The Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant damaged by last week’s
magnitude-9.0 earthquake off the coast of Japan was releasing
levels of radiation that could be life-threatening, the head of
the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission told lawmakers in  Washington , as Tokyo Electric Power Co. workers struggled to
prevent a nuclear meltdown at the complex. The United Nations
nuclear agency planned an emergency meeting on the crisis.  Evolving Situation  “Due to the evolving situation at the Fukushima nuclear
facility and potential disruptions to the supply of goods,
transport, communications, power and other infrastructure,
British nationals currently in  Tokyo  and to the north of Tokyo
should consider leaving the area,” the U.K. Foreign Office said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Even so, a British government science official said the
risk to human health from damage at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant was limited to the area around
the facility.  The Japanese government has recommended a 20-kilometer (12-
mile) evacuation zone around the stricken nuclear reactors,
located 220 kilometers north of Tokyo. People within 30
kilometers were advised to stay indoors.  “The 20 kilometer exclusion zone that the Japanese have
actually imposed is sensible and proportionate,” U.K. Chief
Scientific Officer John Beddington said, according to a
transcript of a conference call yesterday.  ’Very Concerned’  The NRC’s “independent analysis of the deteriorating
situation” in Japan spurred the U.S. to issue a recommendation
that goes further than the Japanese government’s guidelines,
White House press secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters yesterday
in Washington. “We’re obviously very concerned about the safety
and security of American citizens in Japan.”  The German Embassy in Tokyo said March 15 it recommended
its citizens consider leaving Japan. Families with small
children should especially consider leaving, the embassy said on
its website. Andreas Peschke, a spokesman for the German foreign
ministry, yesterday urged citizens to ’’temporarily move’’ from
the Tokyo area to the city of  Osaka , 400 kilometers southwest of
the capital. The German embassy has been partially moved to
Osaka, he said at a briefing in Berlin.  The French prime minister advised citizens who aren’t
required to stay in Tokyo to return to  France  or leave to the
south of Japan, according to a statement dated March 16 on the
website of the nation’s embassy in Japan. The government also
asked Air France to make planes available to help with
evacuations, the statement said.  Belgium, Norway  Belgium’s foreign ministry advised citizens yesterday to
leave Japan because of the “worrisome” situation at the
Fukushima nuclear plant, joining Norway in recommending
evacuation from the earthquake-stricken nation. The Belgian
defense ministry sent an Airbus A330 aircraft to  Seoul  in  South
Korea , which is scheduled to start flights between Tokyo and
Seoul as of March 18, according to an e-mailed statement.  Russia’s government will start evacuating the families of
embassy employees and other state officials from Japan, the
Foreign Ministry said in a statement yesterday. Evacuations will
probably start tomorrow, according to the statement.    China  has since March 15 been moving its citizens to
Niigata and Tokyo from the four Japanese prefectures most
affected by the earthquake pending repatriation, Xinhua News
Agency said.  More than 4,000 Chinese arrived in Dalian in the northeast
from Japan between March 11 and March 16, including 1,900 people
on 12 flights yesterday evening, Xinhua reported yesterday.  Sri Lanka,  Australia   China Eastern Airlines Corp. has added flights to Japan to
evacuate Chinese wanting to leave, a company spokesman said,
declining to be identified, citing company policy. The airline
also added one extra flight to Tokyo, he said.  SriLankan Airlines Ltd. will operate a special flight from
Tokyo to  Colombo  today for Sri Lankans wishing to leave Japan,
it said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Mexico ’s embassy in
Tokyo said March 15 it would help Mexicans pay for bus fares to
Osaka and hotels in the city, as well as airfares to Mexico.  Australia today said citizens should keep at least 80
kilometers from the Fukushima plants. Yesterday, the country
said people should reconsider travel to Tokyo and surrounding
earthquake-affected districts, according to the Department of  Foreign Affairs  website.  The U.K.’s Beddington said a worst-case scenario would
result in an explosion at the Fukushima plant that could send
radioactive material about 1,600 feet in the air.  ‘Really Serious’  Workers at the Fukushima facility, damaged after the March
11 earthquake, were struggling to keep the plant’s reactors cool
and to control pressure inside containment vessels. If they fail
to do so, pressure would build up inside the reactors and cause
the core to melt, Beddington said. As it melts, the material
will fall and react with the concrete and other materials on the
floor, he said on a call with the British Embassy in Tokyo.  “In this reasonable worst case you get an explosion,” he
said. “Now, that’s really serious, but it’s serious again for
the local area. It’s not serious for elsewhere.”  Assuming that weather patterns drive radioactive material
toward Tokyo, there would be “absolutely no issue” for human
health, he said. Even following the disaster at Chernobyl, there
were no radiation-related problems outside the 30 kilometer
exclusion zone, the scientist said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terje Langeland in Osaka at 
 tlangeland1@bloomberg.net  