-- 
EnBW Halts Two German Reactors for Merkel-Ordered Safety Checks

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-03-17T09:30:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/enbw-halts-two-german-reactors-for-merkel-ordered-safety-checks.html
  EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK) ,  Germany ’s third-largest utility, halted two nuclear stations as
part of government-ordered safety checks at the country’s seven
oldest plants after explosions at Japanese reactors.  EnBW started halting its Neckarwestheim 1 and Philippsburg
1 plants in the south of the country yesterday, the utility said
in a statement on its website.  That brings the total nuclear capacity reduction since
March 15, when  Chancellor Angela Merkel  ordered the nationwide
safety review to run through June, to 2.5 gigawatts. Two of the
seven plants are currently offline. The rest, including the two
plants EnBW closed, equals 25 percent of the 20.7 gigawatts
installed over Germany’s 17 reactors.    E.ON AG (EOAN)  cut output at its 878-megawatt Isar 1 reactor to
110 megawatts on March 15 and is waiting for an order from the
government to switch off that facility as well as its Unterweser
plant, Petra Uhlmann, a company spokeswoman said yesterday. The
utility will staff the reactors over the weekend and shut them
down immediately when the government issues the order, Chief
Executive Officer Johannes Teyssen said yesterday.  Stefan Mappus, the premier of Baden-Wuerttemberg, and Lucia
Puttrich, the state of Hesse’s environment minister, have said
that two reactors in those states are unlikely to resume service
after the three-month safety checks. The plants are Biblis A in
Hesse, which is operated by  RWE AG (RWE) , and EnBW’s Neckarwestheim 1.  Hesse will probably issue an order by tomorrow for the halt
of Biblis A, the state said in a news release on its website
yesterday. Nuclear plants can take several hours to halt.  * Company estimate ** Determined by state/federal government ***
Determined by company and or state government  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  