-- 
England Beats West Indies to Keep Alive at Cricket World Cup Quarterfinals

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-03-17T17:48:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/england-beats-west-indies-to-keep-alive-at-cricket-world-cup-quarterfinals.html
  England  beat the West Indies by
18 runs to retain a chance of reaching the Cricket World Cup
quarterfinals.  England appeared close to defeat, which would have knocked
it out of the tournament, as Andre Russell and Ramnaresh Sarwan
put on 72 runs for the 7th wicket. Russell fell for 49 and
England took the remaining three wickets for three runs to end
the West Indies innings for 225. England had earlier scored 243
runs after 48.4 overs in  Chennai ,  India .  “I gave that one up for dead,” England bowler Graeme Swann told  Sky Sports . “All of a sudden, we’re still there.”  England will make the quarterfinals if  South Africa , which
is leading Group B, defeats  Bangladesh  in two days, or second
place India beats the West Indies a day later. The Caribbean
team may qualify even if it is defeated and other results go
its way.  “We’ve been inconsistent, no doubt,” England captain  Andrew Strauss  said in the post-game ceremony. “We have pulled
out results when needed, but now we must wait on other results.
Hopefully we have done enough to progress.”  England won the toss and batted first, but failed to build
on its early momentum.  Jonathan Trott  looked well set on 47 from
43 balls when he was caught by Chris Gayle off to the leg spin
of Davendra Bishoo. England then slipped to 151-6 from 121-3.  Earlier, openers Strauss and Matt Prior scored 31 and 21
respectively before falling to Andre Russell, who finished with
4-49. Luke Wright gave England a late boost with 44 before
becoming Bishoo’s third victim.  Flying Start  Gayle and Darren Sammy gave West Indies a flying start.
Gayle got 43 off 21, including four fours in Tim Bresnan’s
second over, before falling leg-before-wicket to James Tredwell.
His replacement Sammy hit 41 in 29 balls as the West Indies
appeared to be heading for victory.  The charge was hit when Sammy was bowled by  Ravi Bopara ,
and further wickets left West Indies rocking at 118-5 as the
advantage shifted. Kieron Pollard hit 24 before Russell and
Sarwan looked to take the game away from England once more.
Tredwell, making his first appearance in the tournament,
finished 4-48 to lead England’s bowlers, while Swann chipped in
with 3-36.  South Africa leads the group with eight points after five
matches, while India has seven. England finishes with seven
points after its six games, while the West Indies and Bangladesh
each have six points heading to their final games. The top four
teams in each of the two groups will qualify for the
quarterfinals. The event ends April 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  