-- 
Lenzing Is Said to Delay Austrian Fiber Maker’s Planned Offering of Stock

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-03-17T21:55:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/lenzing-is-said-to-delay-austrian-fiber-maker-s-planned-offering-of-stock.html
  Lenzing AG (LNZ) , an Austrian maker of
textile fibers, postponed a 517 million euro ($725 million) sale
of new and existing shares because of market conditions, said
two people with knowledge of the transaction.  Lenzing had planned to sell 75 million euros of new shares,
while majority owner B&C Industrieholding GmbH had planned to
sell a 20 percent stake worth about 442 million euros based on
Lenzing’s closing price today. The people declined to be
identified because the information is private.  The Lenzing, Austria-based fiber maker had said March 8
that it aimed to raise capital in the second quarter. The
company planned to sell the shares by late April, two people
with knowledge of the sale said last month. The deal was to help
fund a 1.5 billion-euro investment to build new plants and
expand in  Austria ,  China ,  India  and  Indonesia  over four years,
the people said.  “We said in our March 8 statement that we were considering
a transaction in the second quarter depending on market
conditions,” said B&C Chief Executive Officer Michael Junghans.
“A capital increase in early April is very unlikely. We are
still on track for May or June.”  A 500 million-euro share sale would raise Lenzing’s free
float to more than 700 million euros and qualify it for
membership on the Vienna bourse’s main ATX index, a goal
identified by Chief Executive Officer Peter Untersperger in a
Jan. 13 interview with Austria’s Die Presse newspaper.  The 90.5 percent stake that B&C holds in Lenzing has curbed
the stock’s liquidity and reduced its weighting in stock
indexes, limiting investment by others. Only 54 million euros of
the stock was traded in 2010, according to  data  from Vienna’s
bourse.  B&C and Lenzing had hired Morgan Stanley as sole global
coordinator for the sale, according to a statement earlier this
month. Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank and UniCredit are acting as
joint bookrunners, according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  