-- 
Heritage Gains Most in 8 Months on Report It Rejected Bid

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-03-17T17:20:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/heritage-oil-gains-most-in-seven-weeks-on-report-it-rejected-bid.html
  Heritage Oil Plc (HOIL)  rose the most in
more than eight months in London after the Financial Times
reported that the company rejected a 1.2 billion-pound ($1.9
billion) takeover bid as too small.  Heritage advanced 23.8 pence, or 8.2 percent, to 313.5
pence, the most since July 6.  An unidentified Abu Dhabi-based company made an informal
bid of 425 pence a share, the newspaper reported.  Heritage’s Chief Financial Officer Paul Atherton and  Tanya
Clarke , head of  investor relations  at the company, were not
immediately available for comment when two calls were made to
each of their mobile phones today.  The Jersey, the U.K.-based company is exploring for oil and
gas in the Iraqi region of Kurdistan,  Pakistan , Tanzania, Mali,
the Democratic Republic of Congo and Russia, according to its
 website .  In January, Heritage shares plunged the most in almost
three years after it discovered natural gas instead of oil in
its Miran West-2 well in Kurdistan. Atherton at the time said
the company may supply gas to  Turkey  and to  Europe  through a
planned pipeline.  Heritage had $614 million in cash as of the end of
September, it said in a statement. Most of it was secured last
year after selling its oil field interests in the Lake Albert
basin in Uganda to Tullow Oil Plc for about $1.5 billion.  Heritage has been in a dispute with the Ugandan government
over the assets sale after the authorities claimed it owed about
$404 million in capital gains tax.  The company had to deposit about $121.5 million with the
Ugandan Revenue Authority and $283.4 million in an escrow
account to complete the transaction with Tullow, which this week
signed a memorandum with the government to advance oil
development in country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in  London  at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  