-- 
Merkel Is Opposed to Immediate Closure of All German Nuclear-Power Plants

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-03-17T13:29:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/merkel-is-opposed-to-immediate-closure-of-all-german-nuclear-power-plants.html
  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she
doesn’t plan to close all  Germany ’s nuclear reactors as a result
of the atomic crisis in Japan.  Merkel, in a speech to lower-house lawmakers in Berlin
today, said her decision to close Germany’s seven oldest nuclear
plants for three months while checks are carried out on the
industry is guided by the principle of “safety first.” The
government will also present a plan for speeding up the
transition to alternate energies such as wind power, she said.  “I’m against shutting down our nuclear power plants only
to have atomic power imported to Germany from other countries,”
Merkel told lawmakers as she outlined her government’s response
to the crisis in  Japan . “That won’t happen on my watch.”  Germany will press for the European Union and the Group of
20 to address the consequences of the Fukushima nuclear crisis,
Merkel said. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who chairs the G-
20, has called an emergency meeting of G-20 officials on the
ramifications, she said.  “If the seemingly impossible becomes possible, the
absolutely unlikely becomes reality in a highly developed
country like Japan, that changes the situation,” Merkel said.
“Then we have a new situation, and this requires action.”  Dusseldorf-based  E.ON AG (EOAN) , Germany’s biggest utility, rose
1.8 percent to 21.37 euros in Frankfurt trading as of 2:12 p.m.
local time, while competitor  RWE AG (RWE)  also added 1.8 percent. The
stocks have fallen 6.2 percent and 8.2 percent respectively
since March 11 as the Japanese crisis came to light.  ‘Political Message’  Merkel is using the three-month moratorium to send “a
political message” after the explosions at Japanese reactors,
E.ON Chief Executive Officer Johannes Teyssen told reporters in
Dusseldorf yesterday.  “You won’t hear from me ‘all is fine,’ but you also won’t
hear from me ‘we have to change everything now,’” Teyssen said.
“Germany is alone in its reaction. Nobody else has said it
plans any provisional measures.”  Merkel, whose government last year pushed through an
extension of the lifespan of  Germany’s 17 nuclear plants  by an
average of 12 years, faces opposition claims of double standards
after she announced the moratorium on March 15.  State Elections  The seven oldest reactors include two in Baden-
Wuerttemberg, where her Christian Democrats are battling to
retain a half-century hold on the state in a March 27 election.
She faces a further five state elections this year, the next of
which is in Saxony-Anhalt on March 20. Polls show 80 percent of
voters oppose nuclear power, an Infratest poll for ARD
television showed on March 15.  “We want to speed up the expansion of renewable energy and
the required grid infrastructure,” Merkel told lawmakers. “We
will submit a clear timetable.” German nuclear plants will
“possibly have to be taken off the grid more quickly,”
requiring a quicker transition, she said.  “No more lies, Chancellor,”  Sigmar Gabriel , floor leader
of the main opposition Social Democrats, said in parliament
today. “Last year you claimed that we wanted to exit nuclear
energy too fast,” he said. “Now you stand here and have the
chutzpah to say that we were too slow to exit.”  Merkel reiterated that the three-month moratorium is legal
as a precautionary step to ensure safety, saying German law on
nuclear power “provides for exactly that.”  Opposition parties charge that the decision to bypass
parliament is unconstitutional. Five opposition-controlled
states lodged a complaint with the Federal Constitutional Court
last month relating to the government plans to extend the
running time of nuclear plants to about 2036 from a previous
cut-off date of about 2022.  The states argue that the government should have asked the
upper house, or Bundesrat, to approve the policy, court
spokeswoman Judith Blohm said Feb. 28.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Donahue at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net  