-- 
Merkel Faces Lawmakers’ Appeal for More Say in ESM Bailout Aid

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-03-17T13:37:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/merkel-faces-lawmakers-appeal-for-more-say-in-esm-bailout-aid.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
faces an official appeal from her own coalition to be consulted
on any future aid for distressed euro-area states, as lawmakers
seek to shield taxpayers from further debt-crisis fallout.  The  appeal , to be made in a resolution in the lower-house
of parliament in Berlin today, stresses coalition lawmakers’
mandate as “guardians of the public purse” and maps out what
they expect from Merkel at a March 24-25 European Union summit
that is due to ratify a package of crisis-fighting measures.  “We can’t let parliament’s sovereignty over the federal
budget be eroded, opening the door to fiscal transfers in the
euro region over which we have little control,” Michael Link, a
lawmaker with Merkel’s Free Democratic Party coalition partner,
said in an interview.  The resolution, which will go to a non-binding vote at
about 6:30 p.m., maintains pressure on Merkel to minimize the
amount that  Germany  pays to help snuff out the crisis under a
permanent safety net from mid-2013. Merkel, whose party will
contest the second of six state elections this year on March 20,
also faces public opposition to aid for debt-strapped neighbors.  “There is no reason to ask Germany to open its purse
especially wide,” Ifo institute head Hans-Werner Sinn told
reporters in Berlin today. “We have to rescue, but we have
to make sure that the rescue doesn’t result in permanent
dependence” for euro countries running current account and
government deficits.  Bond Buying  Merkel and fellow euro-area leaders ensured that several
elements of the appeal, drawn up last month, were already out of
date when they unexpectedly announced a crisis-fighting package
on March 12, two weeks earlier than pledged. Merkel shunned the
lawmakers’ appeal and backed bond buying by the post-2013 crisis
fund, the European Stability Mechanism. Even so, the core
demands remain unchanged, said Link.  “Any time the European Stability Mechanism is activated,
then the German parliament must also be activated,” Link said.  Coalition lawmakers including Michael Meister, the senior
finance spokesman for Merkel’s  Christian Democrats , and  Norbert Barthle , the party’s budget spokesman, suggested that Merkel
will secure a majority in parliament for the results of next
week’s EU summit, even as they said they were disappointed with
aspects of the package to be discussed.  The resolution to go before parliament today is aimed at
giving “help” to Merkel to ensure that she is not forced into
concessions that “land in the constitutional court,” the
ultimate arbiter of German budget law, Hermann Otto Solms, Free
Democratic finance and economy spokesman, said in a Feb. 11
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Brussels at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at  at
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  