-- 
EU Debt Crisis Won’t End Without Debt Restructuring, Buiter Says

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e
-- 
2011-03-17T12:32:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/eu-debt-crisis-won-t-end-without-debt-restructuring-buiter-says.html
  Europe ’s debt crisis won’t be
resolved until a number of country’s restructure their debt and
clean up their banks’ balance sheets, Citigroup Inc. Chief
Economist Willem Buiter.  “It won’t go away until Europe restructures a couple of
sovereigns and deals with its dummy banks,” Buiter said today
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” in
London, adding that probably meant debt restructuring for Greece
and Ireland, though not Spain. “All that’s been done so far is
to kick the problem down the road.”  European Union leaders agreed at the weekend to increase
the effective lending capacity of its bailout fund to 440
billion euros ($617 billion), a move Buiter said hasn’t solved
the underlying problems that led to the crisis. Euro-area
finance ministers meet in Brussels March 21 and EU leaders
gather there again three days later to hammer out the details of
their plan.  Buiter, a former  Bank of England  policy maker, said leaders
who are refusing to soften the terms of the region’s aid package
to Ireland risk forcing the country to restructure its debt
unilaterally. While the bloc agreed to cut the rate it is
charging Greece on rescue loans, Germany and France suggested
Ireland would have to raise its corporate-tax rate before they
would give it additional help.  “They have to come up with something for Ireland,” Buiter
said. “They’re going to have to make concession or Ireland will
have no option but to go it alone. The Europeans are playing
with fire with this brinksmanship.”  Pressure  Irish Prime Minister Enda Kenny has so far refused to
buckle under pressure from German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President Nicolas Sarkozy as he pushes for relief on the
5.8 percent interest rate Ireland is paying on the 85 billion-
euro rescue package it received in November.  Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said March 15 that
raising the corporate-tax rate, which at 12.5 percent is about
half the EU average, is “out as far as we’re concerned.”  Buiter also said that  Mario Draghi  is the most qualified
candidate to replace  Jean-Claude Trichet  as president of the  European Central Bank  later this year.  “In terms of personal skills and professional skills he’s
clearly the man for the job,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Maryam Nemazee in  London  at 
 mnemazee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  