-- 
EU States, Legislators Clash Over Ban on Cloned-Animal Offspring

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-17T17:47:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/eu-states-legislators-clash-over-ban-on-cloned-animal-offspring.html
European Union governments rejected
a European Parliament demand to ban foods produced from the
offspring of cloned livestock, saying such a step may provoke
retaliation by trade partners.  The proposal by parliament would have blocked 2.5 billion
euros ($3.5 billion) of beef and pork imports and 10.9 billion
euros of exports of those meats,  Hungary , which holds the
rotating EU presidency, said in an e-mailed statement today. It
cited estimates by the European Commission, the bloc’s executive
arm.  The body is demanding a ban on “any commercial activity”
relating to cloned animals and their offspring, Gianni Pittella,
the legislators’ chief negotiator, said in an e-mailed statement
today.  “The position of the European Parliament would require
drawing a family tree for each slice of cheese or salami,”
Hungary said. A ban would be “unfeasible and incapable of
putting an end to cloning of animals, while causing irreparable
damage to European agriculture,” it said.  The latest round of talks on EU rules for novel foods
started yesterday in Brussels and lasted until 4 a.m. local time
today, when parliamentary negotiators walked out, according to
the Hungarian statement.  ‘De Facto’ Ban  No system is in place in the EU or third countries to track
natural offspring of  clones , meaning parliament’s proposal would
result in a “de facto” ban on imports from outside the bloc,
Hungary said. The commission and the EU Council of Ministers
therefore reject such a step, it said.  “Such a ban would be impossible to defend under WTO rules
and would lead to direct retaliatory measures by third
countries,” it said.  Barring the sale of clones’ progeny could not be justified
for reasons of animal welfare because the offspring are bred
using traditional methods, Hungary said. Such a measure would be
misleading to consumers because non-traceable offspring of
cloned animals and foodstuffs derived from them are already in
the EU market, it said.  “I find it incomprehensible that the council is so
stubborn on this,” Kartika Liotard, parliament’s representative
on the issue, said in a statement. “We know that 77 percent of
European citizens do not want cloned meat on their plate.”  A final meeting is scheduled for March 28, according to the
statements.  “If there’s no agreement and there’s no text of
compromise, there will be no legislation,” Victoria Martin De
La Torre, a spokeswoman for the parliament’s Progressive
Alliance of Socialists & Democrats, said via phone.  The parliament in September 2008 urged a ban on any future
sale in  Europe  of food from cloned animals. It also called for a
non-binding resolution for a prohibition on EU imports and
farming of cloned animals.  Imports, trade and use of products from clones are now
covered by general EU regulations, according to the commission.
Denmark is the only EU member to have imposed a national ban on
the use of animal cloning for commercial purposes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 