-- 
Europe’s Stock Pickers of the Decade Part Company on Cost of ‘Russia Risk’

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-03-17T11:46:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/europe-s-stock-pickers-of-decade-split-on-cost-of-russia-risk-.html
  Europe ’s two best-performing equity
fund managers over the last decade both invest in Russia from
offices three blocks apart in Stockholm. They are miles away
from each other on just how risky a place it remains.  Peter Elam Hakansson of East Capital Group says the country
is no more risky than other emerging economies and its stocks
will beat those in rival markets by 25 percent in the next three
years to reflect this. Fredrik Colliander of Carnegie Fonder AB
says corruption and corporate governance concerns justify a
discount to nations such as  Brazil . The two have each returned
more than 700 percent in the past 10 years.  “Today when you buy the Russian stock market, you buy the
same valuation as you did in 1999,” said Hakansson, sipping tea
on the 14th floor of his office, overlooking snow-covered
central Stockholm. “There will be a re-rating as people realize
it’s not as risky as it used to be. The amazing thing is people
are not perceiving this.”  Surging prices of oil and gas,  Russia ’s biggest exports,
haven’t eased investors’ skepticism so far over the country’s
corporate-governance record and legal protection for minority
shareholders. Investor disputes involving state-run OAO
Rosneft’s partnership with BP Plc and the government’s control
of firms such as OAO Gazprom have kept the price-to-earnings
ratio of Russian stocks at least a quarter lower than rival
emerging markets Brazil,  India  and  China .  “The present government has its own interests, messing
with the economy in so-called strategic sectors,” said
Colliander, 47, who has managed Carnegie’s 603 million-euro
($843 million) Russian fund since 2000. “That will continue for
as far as we can see. It’s Russia risk.”  10-Year Returns  Hakansson, 48, manager of East Capital’s 1.9 billion-euro
Russia fund has turned 10,000 euros invested 10 years ago into
97,700 euros today, making it the best-performing European stock
fund with more than 350 million euros of assets, according to
 Morningstar Inc.  A 10,000-euro investment in Colliander’s fund
10 years ago is valued at $70,300, the second-best performer.  The same 10,000-euro investment in the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  in
2001 would now be valued at 12,900 euros. Hakansson’s fund is up
25 percent in the past year; Colliander’s has risen 16 percent.  Although the MICEX Index of Russia’s 30 largest publicly
traded firms has more than doubled in two years, Hakansson and
Colliander agree that cheap valuations relative to other
emerging markets give room for growth. They’re both picking
Gazprom and OAO Lukoil to benefit from higher oil and gas prices
caused by demand from China and political instability in north  Africa  and are also buying banks including OAO Sberbank,
Russia’s biggest bank.  Differing Views  They are split over how Russian stocks should be valued
compared with other emerging markets. Hakansson says they will
likely trade at the same valuations as Brazil by 2014, implying
the country’s stocks will grow 25 percent faster than other
emerging markets. Colliander says a 15 percent discount to rival
economies’ price to earnings ratio is fair.  “There’s definitely risk when you invest in emerging
markets, including Russia, but I don’t see a reason for having a
lower P/E than Brazil,” Hakansson said. “It’s a hangover from
the  Cold War . Maybe we have higher expectations on Russians than
we do on others.”  Colliander, who worked in the commercial division of the
Swedish embassy in Moscow during the late 1980s, disagrees. “It
should be a discount because of its specific issues,” he said.  Gazprom, which is 16.2 percent of the MICEX Index, has a
price-to-earnings ratio of 5.4, almost half European rival  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s ratio of 10.5. Even with  oil prices  within 4
percent of a 30-month high, investors have little confidence in
the firm’s management, Colliander said.  Gazprom Governance  “Everything happens in Gazprom,” he said.  Gazprom was ranked among eight of the world’s least
transparent oil and gas companies in an annual survey published
this month by Berlin-based  Transparency International and
Revenue Watch Institute . All major oil and gas deals in Russia
are approved by Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin .  Gazprom sold a 9.4 percent stake in OAO Novatek, Russia’s
second-largest gas producer, for $1 billion less than its market
price last year. “Why in hell would you do that?” Colliander
said. “There’s a cap on the whole market until they resolve
things like that.”  The stake’s price was calculated using its average value
over the six months before the deal, which was agreed in
September, according to Gazprom spokesman  Sergei Kupriyanov .
“The deal was closed in December when the share price was much
higher,” he said.  Sweden and Russia  Stockholm has become a center for funds investing in Russia
because of its proximity to the country and Sweden’s strong
regulatory controls, according to Hakansson. Sweden and Russia
were enemies during the Cold War and many Swedes learned to
speak Russian, studying the country closely during their
mandatory one-year military conscription, he said.  “We have either been intensively trading with the Russians
or at war with them,” said Hakansson, a former Swedish marine.
“We’ve never been indifferent.”  Colliander and Hakansson’s Russia funds were set up in 1997
and 1998 respectively, almost a decade after the fall of the  Berlin Wall , which marked the end of the  Soviet Union  and thawed
relations with Western Europe and the U.S.  Investor Inflows  Hakansson’s fund had $404 million of inflows in 2010,
making it the third-biggest accumulator of investors’ capital
among European-based Russia funds, according to New York-based
research firm Strategic Insight. Colliander had outflows of
about $166 million last year after the fund’s former owner,
Stockholm-based  HQ AB (HQ) , was bailed out by the Swedish government
and sold its asset-management division to Carnegie Holding AB.  Hakansson was one of  East Capital ’s three founding members
and started in 1998 with 2 million euros under management. His
fund now dwarfs his rival’s with 1.9 billion euros under
management compared with Colliander’s 603 million euros.  “They used to be a big competitor,” Hakansson said,
pointing out Carnegie’s offices from a meeting room overlooking
Stockholm. “Not so much now.”  “He has his views, we have ours,” Colliander said. “I
can assure you we are doing our best to compete with East
Capital.”  Hakansson was attracted to Russia by his conviction that
Russians would embrace capitalism and become as economically and
politically tied with Europe as it was in the 19th century. “It
was a one-off opportunity to invest in a society turning from a
communist one to a capitalist one,” he said.  Russia’s Growth  The strategy paid off. After Russia’s debt default of 1998
and its bailout by the  International Monetary Fund , the
country’s gross domestic product rose almost sevenfold to $1.34
trillion from 1999 to 2010, according to Moscow-based fund
manager  Prosperity Capital Management Ltd.  During that time the
average wage climbed to $650 a month from $50 a month and
inflation dropped to 8.1 percent from 84 percent.  Russia’s  MICEX Index (INDEXCF)  beat all major indexes in Europe,  Asia 
and the Americas from 2001 to 2008, rising almost 700 percent as
the country bounced back from its bailout, buoyed by rising
commodity prices and higher domestic consumption.  In the second half of 2008, the financial crisis wiped
three years of gains from the index as it fell 68 percent,
before a rally in oil and gas prices helped the index rebound to
within 10 percent of its all-time high this January.  Rival Economies  Even with the long-term gains, the MICEX’s price-to-
earnings ratio is 9.5, less than the 10.24 it was in 2003, the
earliest data compiled by Bloomberg and almost a quarter lower
than Brazil’s Bovespa Index. The main exchanges in China and
India as well as the U.S. and U.K. have ratios of 12.9 to 16.2,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Low valuations are a symptom of an economy dependent on
natural resource firms whose stocks move with economic cycles
and a legal system with little regard for minority shareholders,
according to Joanne Irvine, who helps manage about $40 billion
at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc in  London .  “The state is involved in a lot of the companies and you
have a lot of oligarchs dominating them,” Irvine said. Russia
is “one of the weakest places to invest from a corporate
governance perspective.”  Aberdeen, which runs the second-best global emerging
markets fund over the last year, has an “underweight” position
in Russia, preferring India, Irvine said.  The conviction and imprisonment of  Mikhail Khodorkovsky ,
former chief executive officer of Yukos Oil Co., is one case
that illustrates the unpredictable nature of the Russian legal
system, she said. India is “one of the strongest in terms of
corporate governance,” she said.  China Threat  The biggest threat to Russian growth today is from China as
opposed to the late 1990s when its economic problems were
internal, Hakansson said. The world’s biggest consumer of raw
materials reported the largest trade deficit in seven years on
March 10 as export growth slowed.  Colliander agreed that a global economic slowdown spurred
by China would hit Russia hard. “If we get risk adversity
coming in like we did a few years ago, Russia is the first
sell,” he said.  Unlike his cross-town rival, Colliander is also wary of
Russia’s propensity to surprise.  “We always get reminded of this special Russian issue,”
he said. “Something happens every two or three years. It’s
difficult to say what’s it going to be next time, but
something’s going to happen. It always does.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 