-- 
European ‘Mega’ Heat Waves to Increase Over Next 40 Years, Researchers Say

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-03-17T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/european-mega-heat-waves-to-increase-over-next-40-years-researchers-say.html
Growing concentrations of  greenhouse gases  are expected to cause “more frequent,
persistent and intense heat waves” in Europe like the one in  Russia  last year that killed thousands of people and scorched
land, researchers said.  The probability of another “mega-heat wave” like the ones
last year and in 2003 will increase by a factor of five to 10
over the next 40 years, according to a study published today in
the journal  Science , written by scientists led by  David
Barriopedro  from the University of Lisbon in  Portugal .  “We were surprised,”  Erich Fischer , a researcher at the
 Swiss Federal Institute of Technology  in Zurich and one of the
study’s authors, said in an interview today. “We had thought it
was an anomalous event.”  “Serious risks” of heat-related events over large areas
will increase if no “adaptive strategies” are implemented, the
authors wrote. Those strategies include telling people not to do
sports during the hottest part of the day, caring for the
elderly, warning farmers about drought and preparing hospitals
for heat-related illness, Fischer said.  Heat waves in 2003 and 2010 broke 500-year-old records in
some regions, the researchers said. The high temperatures in
eastern  Europe  from late July through mid-August last year
covered twice as much ground as the 2003 heat wave and
temperatures deviated from the average to a much greater extent,
Fischer said.  Last year’s heat wave led to 55,000 heat-related deaths in
Russia, wildfires and a crop failure of 25 percent, according to
the study. The magnitude was “so extreme” that the chances of
another one on that level in the same region remains fairly
unlikely until the second half of the century, researchers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 