-- 
European Stocks Rally, Ending Six-Day Slide; Allianz, Axa Gain

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-03-17T17:12:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/european-stocks-climb-ending-six-day-tumble-u-s-index-futures-advance.html
European stocks climbed after a
six-day slide made them the cheapest in more than two years and
investors speculated that Group of Seven nations will move to
calm markets after Japan’s earthquake-induced nuclear crisis.    Allianz SE (ALV)  and  Axa SA (CS)  led a rebound in insurance companies.  Heritage Oil Plc (HOIL)  jumped 8.2 percent after a report that it
turned down a takeover bid from an unidentified Abu Dhabi-based
company.  SGL Carbon SE (SGL) , the world’s largest maker of carbon and
graphite products, surged 8.7 percent after forecasting
increased profit.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 1.9 percent to 267.08 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in  London , the biggest gain since Dec. 1.
The gauge had tumbled 7 percent over the previous six days after
the Japanese temblor and ensuing tsunami shut down cooling
systems at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power station. The
drop pushed the measure’s valuation to 12.8 times its companies’
reported earnings, the cheapest since 2008.  “The market has priced in the uncertainty and as long as
there is no new bad news it will remain stable,” said Thomas Stucki, who helps manage about $3.8 billion as chief investment
officer at Hyposwiss Private Bank in Zurich. “There are
opportunities around, definitely.”  Benchmark indexes rose in all of the 18 western European
markets, except Iceland and  Portugal .  France ’s CAC 40 climbed
2.4 percent and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 gained 1.8 percent.  Germany ’s DAX soared 2.2 percent, the most in three months.  G-7 Talks  G-7 finance chiefs will hold talks on financial markets and  Japan ’s economy tomorrow, beginning 7 a.m. Tokyo time, after the
March 11 earthquake triggered a drop in global stocks and drove
the nation’s currency to a post-World War II high.  Citigroup Inc., Brown Brothers Harriman & Co., and Mizuho
Securities Co. are among companies saying that Japan may elicit
cooperation from major trading partners in reversing the yen’s
climb to as much as 76.36 per dollar.  “It seems to me we’re going to have to get some kind of
intervention,” Goldman Sachs Asset Management International
Chairman  Jim O’Neill  said in an interview on Bloomberg Radio.  Stocks extended their gains amid speculation Japan will
contain its nuclear crisis. More than 300 workers battled to
prevent a meltdown and spread of radiation at the crippled
Fukushima power station today, an increase from 180 yesterday.
Efforts to use water cannons and helicopters to cool the reactor
may have had some success, Tokyo Electric Power Co. said.  U.S. Economy  In the U.S., the index of leading economic indicators rose
in February for an eighth consecutive month. Other reports
showed fewer Americans filed first-time claims for unemployment
insurance payments last week and the cost of living climbed more
than forecast last month.  European Insurers had the biggest gain of 19 industry
groups in the Stoxx 600. Allianz,  Europe ’s largest insurer,
climbed 4.2 percent to 95.05 euros and Axa rose 4.6 percent to
13.95 euros. The two stocks were among those “unjustifiably
oversold” since the Japan earthquake, according to UBS AG.    Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer, added 4.1 percent
to 109.50 euros.  Hannover Re  rallied 3.6 percent to 38.40 euros
as Morgan Stanley included it in a list of favored insurance
companies.  Heritage Oil soared 8.2 percent to 313.5 pence. The St
Helier, Jersey-based oil explorer turned down an informal 1.2
billion-pound ($1.9 billion) bid from an unidentified Abu Dhabi-
based company, the Financial Times reported, citing a person
familiar with the situation. The oil and gas explorer declined
to comment, the newspaper said.  Wood Group    John Wood Group Plc (WG/) , a U.K. oil and gas services provider,
rallied 5 percent to 619 pence after Chairman Ian Wood said the
Aberdeen, Scotland-based company has identified a “really
sizable” global acquisition.  SGL Carbon surged 8.7 percent to 35 euros, the biggest gain
in almost two years, after predicting that operating profit will
jump as much as 29 percent in 2011.    Taylor Wimpey Plc (TW/)  led gains among U.K. homebuilders as  SIG
Plc (SHI) , Europe’s biggest supplier of insulation, said trading for
the first two months of the year was well ahead of the
comparable period last year.  The U.K.’s second-largest homebuilder by volume climbed 5
percent to 39.67 pence and  Persimmon Plc (PSN) , the third-biggest,
rallied 5.4 percent to 447.2 pence. SIG shares surged 7.8
percent to 130.5 pence, the biggest gain in two months.  Siemens, Schneider Advance    Siemens AG (SIE)  climbed 4.4 percent to 90.21 euros as UniCredit
SpA upgraded Europe’s largest engineering company to “buy”
from “hold.” Siemens is likely to be a major winner from
rising electricity prices and the energy-efficiency drive in the
aftermath of the Japan earthquake, the brokerage said.    Schneider Electric SA (SU) , the biggest maker of circuit
breakers, increased 4.2 percent to 110.40 euros after also being
recommended by the brokerage.    Wacker Chemie AG (WCH) , the German maker of silicon wafers for
semiconductors, climbed 6.8 percent to 150 euros as Barclays Plc
raised its price estimate on the shares.  “With developments in Japan implying upside for future
solar demand, Wacker in our view represents the best way to gain
exposure to growth in solar volumes without depending on a
single market, application or provider,” Rupesh Madlani, an
analyst at Barclays in London, wrote in an e-mail.    Carrefour SA (CA)  gained 3.1 percent to 30.83 euros as HSBC
Holdings Plc upgraded France’s biggest supermarket chain to
“overweight” from “neutral.”  The sales of Dia and Carrefour Property announced earlier
this month “should highlight Carrefour’s implicit
undervaluation and could be followed by further disposals,”
Paris-based Jerome Samuel wrote in a note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net  