-- 
Lew Says Budget Talks Must Focus on Both Revenue and Spending Reductionss

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-03-17T04:00:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/lew-says-budget-talks-must-focus-on-revenue-and-spending-cuts.html
White House budget director  Jacob Lew  said the administration wants to shift the focus of budget
talks from spending cuts to long-term deficit reduction, which
will force Republicans to discuss raising government revenue.  Shrinking the budget shortfall from a projected record $1.6
trillion this year over the longer term will require going
beyond slashing programs to addressing entitlement programs such
as Social Security and taxes, Lew said during a Bloomberg
Breakfast yesterday in Washington.  “One cannot solve our deficit problem by simply cutting
away at it,” Lew said. “There is going to have to be a serious
conversation with everything on the table in terms of revenues
and mandatory spending, and that’s hard.”  Lew said he is optimistic about reaching an agreement to
fund the government for the rest of the fiscal year, which ends
Sept. 30. He said Republican leaders in Congress have taken a
pragmatic approach to negotiations, and indicated President  Barack Obama  is open to additional spending cuts.  He cautioned that efforts by some Republicans to attach so-
called riders on the legislation to limit or eliminate funding
for social programs such as family planning or environmental
regulation enforcement may hinder any deal on 2011 spending.  The Republican-controlled  House of Representatives  on March
15  approved  another short-term measure to pay for government
operations until April 8. It includes $6 billion in cuts, which
would keep Republicans on track with their push to reduce the
budget by $61 billion this year. Leaders of the Senate’s
Democratic majority have said they expect to pass the stopgap
bill today and send it to the president for his signature.  Temporary Authority  The government has been operating under a series of
temporary measures and the current spending authority, enacted
earlier this month, expires March 18.  Lew said that until lawmakers complete talks on this year’s
budget they can’t have a serious conversation about long-term
deficit reduction.  The actions so far by the House don’t add up to substantial
deficit reduction, Lew said. Republicans haven’t offered a
detailed budget plan for 2012 and beyond, he said, and they want
to extend indefinitely the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts for
individuals earning more than $200,000 a year and on estates.  While Obama signed an $858 billion bill to continue Bush-
era tax cuts through 2012, he opposes another extension.  ‘Big Hole’  “We have got specific proposals out there on many areas of
spending; they are still developing them,” Lew said of the
Republicans. “I don’t know what they are saving, they are going
to have a big hole to fill to show real deficit reduction.”  Brendan Buck, a spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner ,
Republican of  Ohio , faulted the administration for the lack of
progress on the deficit.  “It’s awfully hypocritical for the White House to call for
a dialogue on solving our deficits when they completely punted
on this issue in their budget,” Buck said.  He declined to discuss whether Boehner and other
congressional Republicans would look at raising revenue. Party
leaders will offer a budget blueprint next month to tackle “the
long-term challenges that we face,” Buck said.  Lew defended Obama’s $3.7 trillion budget request for the
2012 fiscal year, saying it “does an awful lot more on revenue
than the current political system is ready to process.”  While Obama’s plan, released last month, aims to reduce
deficits by more than $1 trillion over a decade, it doesn’t
include changes to Medicare, Medicaid or Social Security. Those
entitlement programs represent about 40 percent of the federal
budget and are primary drivers of long-term deficits.  Republican Letter  In a letter to Obama yesterday, almost two-dozen Republican
senators said they probably would oppose increasing the U.S.
debt limit Barack Obama led a push to begin cutting entitlement
programs. The government will reach its current legal limit on
borrowing sometime between April 15 and May 31, according to the
Treasury Department, and raising it requires congressional
approval.  Obama’s budget also skirted recommendations from the
president’s own deficit-reduction commission, led by  Alan Simpson  and  Erskine Bowles .  “Simpson-Bowles had a plan, the president had a plan,”
Lew said. “They are not exactly the same, but I think it’s
important to kind of start there.”  Lew said that while there are fundamental disagreements on
budget priorities, Republican leaders are approaching the
negotiations on this year’s spending in good faith.  “One could have put a $6 billion package together that was
$5 billion of things that were acceptable and $1 billion of
things that were daring us to veto,” Lew said of the temporary
spending measure. “They didn’t do that. I applaud them for
that.”  Compromise  For the next round of negotiations, Lew said there likely
is more room for spending cuts “that we could live with”
between current spending levels and the additional trims the
Republicans want.  “I hope we can work our way towards that,” Lew, 55, said.
“With the choice between optimism and pessimism, I always
choose optimism.”  Still, he said Obama has drawn a line at Republican
attempts at “shutting down government activities in areas that
involve science and environmental health and safety
enforcement” through the budget resolution.  Those issues are “more emotional sometimes than the
individual funding levels,” Lew said. “That’s why we were so
clear right at the start that it was not acceptable to put
extraneous social policy and broad policy directives in a must-
fund continuing resolution. It’s not going to be acceptable to
us, and we’re going to have to work our way through that.”  He declined to say whether Obama would refuse to sign
another stopgap funding bill after the three-week extension,
which is the sixth temporary spending authority approved this
fiscal year.  “I don’t think it’s helpful to the process for us to
deliver ultimatums,” Lew said. “I’m not going to say what he
would do. I didn’t say he would, I didn’t say he wouldn’t.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in  Washington  at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  