-- 
Lew Says Obama Is Open to More Spending Cuts (Transcript)

-- B y  
-- 
2011-03-17T23:44:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/lew-says-obama-is-open-to-more-spending-cuts-transcript-.html
President  Barack Obama ’s budget
chief, Jacob Lew, said during a Bloomberg Breakfast in
Washington with reporters yesterday in Washington that he is
optimistic lawmakers will reach an agreement to fund the
government through the end of the fiscal year and signaled the
administration is open to more spending cuts in negotiations
with Republicans.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT, BLOOMBERG NEWS: Let me ask you this. You are going
to get - it looks like the CR is going to get through OK.
There’s a common refrain coming from Republicans now that says
Obama refuses to show his hand. Obama refuses to say what he
likes and doesn’t like in Simpson-Bowles. And the White House
comes back and says in due time. When will due time?    JACOB LEW , DIRECTOR, OFFICE OF THE U.S. OFFICE OF
MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET: Well, first of all, I think the White
House, the president, we have shown quite a lot. We put a budget
out for 2012 that has a complete set of policies which are not
non-controversial. They are things that we are actively working
to defend and present.  It sets out a goal which were we to achieve it would be
dramatically better in terms of our fiscal posture and I think
we have to start by kind of reevaluating how does the year work.
The year works with the president putting a budget out there.
Congress puts something out there. You then engage.  So I think it’s a - I don’t think it’s a correct statement
that the president doesn’t have positions out there. On the CR
discussion, first of all, the president had a 2011 budget. That
was a year ago. He presented it to Congress last February. At
the end of the year Congress was not able to agree on a full-
year funding bill. We are now working unfortunately on short-
term extensions of a CR.  The president’s position was clear. The president has moved
considerably and, frankly, it has been discounted. The fact that
we are already more than halfway between the president’s budget
and where the current bill is is a great deal of movement, plus
we have indicated a willingness to work together to find
reasonable middle ground to make additional savings.  I think that there have been, as the speaker noted
yesterday, numerous conversations since the meeting that the
vice president had with the leaders, a number of us were at. And
these conversations are going on at various levels, so I think
the fact that there is not a public display is not exactly the
same as whether or not there is quite a lot of activity out
there.  QUESTION: Are those conversations involving the president?
How often is he on the phone talking?  LEW: I have done this for a long time. It rarely involves
the president. Presidents don’t negotiate appropriation lines in
my experience. I wouldn’t recommend it when I had a president
who wanted to negotiate appropriation lines. I urged him not to.  It’s - the president is not an appropriator. The president
puts together the entire plan for the government of the  United
States . He has a Cabinet. He has a team that’s engaged.  I think if one says the only way an administration engages
with the Congress is at the level of the president, you go back
over history, we haven’t had very many engaged presidents
because most involvement is at the level where people have
responsibility over the technical detail.  I operate with authority that the president has given me. I
am going to the room and I know that I am speaking for the
president. I have done that for a lot of years. That doesn’t
mean the president needs to be in the room.  QUESTION: At some point he has been brought in, right, in
some of these things. You had a meeting at the White House.  LEW: I have gone through with him in great detail where the
differences between the administration and the Congress lie. I
know with a fair amount of precision where his lines are. I told
that to the congressional interlocutors that I deal with, so -  HUNT: You are talking just when you say appropriators, you
are just talking about this year’s budget. You are not -  LEW: You asked about me the (inaudible)  HUNT: Well, no, but I was talking about the bigger-picture
things -  LEW: Yes.  HUNT: - which is Simpson-Bowles and entitlements and some
of the longer-range deficit issues as to whether those have been
joined and when the president is going to tell us what he thinks
about those.  LEW: So you look at Simpson-Bowles. It obviously has many
parts. In terms of its broadest goal, which its mandate which
was to reduce the deficit to a point which now seems like
ancient history, but it was to get the deficit to 3 percent of
GDP.  Were we to accomplish that, it would be an enormous
accomplishment. I would just point out that in that’s what the
president’s budget embraced this year. It achieved that goal.  We both set that goal for the commission and we have
achieved it. And I would say that if you look at the debate on
the Hill, there is a lot of discussion that would treat that
goal as one that is not a very big accomplishment, and I think
that’s a mistake.  I think you have to get there on your way towards
ultimately having a balanced budget, but you listen to the
debate on the Hill and there is a lot of confusion about how you
get to your ultimate goal. I have heard an awful lot of people
say, “Why don’t you balance the budget this year?” That -
anyone who looks at the numbers, who looks at the policy knows
whether you are left-wing or right-wing, Democrat or Republican,
it’s not going to happen this year, so you have to work in the
world of reality.  Simpson-Bowles had a plan. The president had a plan. They
are not exactly the same, but I think it’s important to kind of
start there, because frankly we haven’t had a broad conversation
about is that the right goal. And I think it’s a grave error to
take that goal and treat it as if it’s already been
accomplished, because we need to accomplish it in order to make
further progress after that.  If you look at the other specifics, there is a lot of
things in Simpson-Bowles that we have embraced quite directly.
And there are things that range from the government
reorganization, the federal pay freeze, to - and malpractice
reform legislation and a host of other specific issues.  On the issues of revenue and entitlement, revenue - I think
the president’s budget does an awful lot more on revenue than
the current political system is ready to process. I think
Simpson-Bowles does a lot more on revenue than many would
embrace.  We have encouraged the discussion of ideas that range from
our own budget proposals, which would let the upper-income tax
breaks lapse and would put limitation on deductions in the high-
income brackets, which is a way of reaching into tax
expenditures. We have put that out there as a specific idea.  Simpson-Bowles has a process. We are ready to engage with
Congress on that conversation, so I don’t think it’s fair to say
that we haven’t put something out there.  On entitlements, and very difficult, I think that the
president’s position is clear from the State of the Union and
the budget and things he has said in between and since. He wants
to deal with entitlements in a bipartisan way. It’s the only way
we are going to make real progress.  On Social Security, he put principles out, he has extended
a hand. I have watched my own words get distorted on Social
Security. You would think that I had said at some point that I
didn’t want to do Social Security reform. I am one of the
loudest voices saying we need to do Social Security reform soon.  We have a problem in the out years. I think the debate has
been confused by many who would want to define it as an
immediate crisis causing the current budget problems. And I
think that’s a mistake.  I think one has to embrace the fact that we have an
obligation to the Social Security trust fund that’s part of our
overall budget. It flows to the bottom line. And in the long
term, Social Security has a shortfall.  I think were we to embrace the idea of fixing Social
Security on the terms that the president outlined, we could make
real progress, but I think trying to define it as having caused
the problem that we are facing now is just not factually
correct. So that’s one issue.  On Medicare, Medicaid, the administration present before I
was in the current role I’m in has done more in the last two and
a half years to get our hands around health-care spending and
long-term growth than any other administration in history. The
fact that there are hundreds of billions of dollars of savings
in the first 10 years, $1 billion plus in the second 10 years,
is not without controversy. It’s not like everyone has embraced
the Affordable Care Act and said we are going to stick with it
and implement it and get those savings.  The president has also said we need to move beyond that,
but he has done quite a lot. And he hasn’t said he’s done, but I
just push back pretty hard on the notion that in any of those
areas there has been a lack of presidential leadership.  My own experience on things like Social Security reform, I
think I said it when I was here the last time, but I’ll repeat
it: I have never seen a unilateral proposal on Social Security
reform lead to a positive outcome.  QUESTION: Jack, we are on our second or third, I guess now,
CR, short-term CR; it’s getting a little silly. For those of us
who haven’t worked for the Democratic Study Group, can you talk
to us about what how many more you think it’s going to take
(inaudible)? What - where are we going to end up with a deal?
Where is the deal that can solve this and move on to the current
year’s budget?  LEW: I think that the president made clear in his remarks
last week that it is just not the right thing to do to fund the
government two weeks at a time. No business would run that way.
It leads to bad management, wasteful decisions, things that you
know you are going to stop that you can’t terminate, things that
you need to start that you have to hold back on.  It’s just not - it’s no way to run a railroad. And we need
to get to the point where there is an agreement on the full-
year. I think it’s a good thing that the House passed a three-
week CR yesterday. I think it’s going to take a few weeks to
work through.  Part of the problem is you have to create a reasonable
period of time to work through to get done with the whole year’s
work, or else you get partway through and everyone is distracted
working on a short-term extension. I think this three-week
extension was designed, as I look in and see it, to provide that
space to work through and maybe finish the year’s work.  I don’t want to minimize the extent to which there are
still differences. Having moved more than halfway from the
president’s budget, we made clear that there is a line beyond
which the president is not prepared to go.  He is not prepared to accept the kinds of cuts to things
like Pell grants and Head Start that would mortgage the future
and not give us the ability to educate the next generation to do
the things that both we need to do for our economy and our
future and for kids to have the opportunities they deserve. So
there are things in there we are not going to do.  I think they have gotten that message. We are engaging now
at preliminary levels to kind of explore what that means. I
think yesterday’s vote suggests this is just not a bilateral
conversation. This is a complicated puzzle where within the
House there is a need for them to manage towards a majority that
might be challenging, as yesterday’s vote suggested, without
some bipartisanship.  In the Senate, we know there is going to need to be some
bipartisanship, because you can’t get 60 votes without it. And
frankly, for the president and Congress to come together in an
era of divided government, it’s going to require working
together.  We are ready to do that. We have been ready to do that.
Frankly, we have been doing it. I think that there - we’re at a
place that is different now than a couple of months ago in terms
of knowing how to exchange information and understand what’s
going on so that there are not missed cues, but that’s not a
substitute for sitting down and working through the detailed
issues.  One of the things I just have to point out on the spending
bill, and it’s a shame that finishing last year’s work is
distracting everyone’s attention from the huge challenges of
next year’s and the long-term multiyear work, but that’s where
we are so it does require some significant time and attention.
There’s a lot besides money at stake in this, on this
appropriation in the CR.  You’ve got the better part of 100, if not 100 depending on
how you count them, riders, most of which have nothing to do
with actual spending of money for budget control purposes. It’s
social policy. It’s things that range from eliminating Planned
Parenthood funding, federal funding for Planned Parenthood, to
shutting down government activities in areas that involve
science and environmental health and safety enforcement.  And the president has made clear that that is not
acceptable to him. And I think that that’s -  HUNT: Never acceptable?  LEW: Those - things that meet those characteristics are
unacceptable to him.  QUESTION: Every one of those that meet those
characteristics?  LEW: Yeah. I am not going to make a global statement that
Congress can never put a provision that involves language on
that would be acceptable, but the things that meet the standard
that I have just described are unacceptable. And that’s going to
require some hard work.  My experience in the ‘90s was that those issues were often
more difficult than the funding issues. People get very attached
to amendments that pass, and they are hard to shake loose.  And I think we do - we are going to have to get work on
that. The clarity of our position has been made clear directly
from the president to the speaker. I have repeated it in every
conversation I have had.  QUESTION: Has the president drawn a line that this could be
the last short-term measure that you will fund?  LEW: The president has made it very clear that we should
finish the work of last year and get on to the work of the
future. I don’t think it’s helpful to the process for us to
deliver ultimatums.  QUESTION: Because he would sign another?  LEW: I didn’t say that. I didn’t say that. I said they need
to finish their work, and there is now a three-week period if
this passes to do it, and it would be a disservice to the
country not to do that.  I am just not going to - I am not going to say what he
would do. I didn’t say he would. I didn’t say he wouldn’t.  QUESTION: Is it your quiet conversations with Republican
leaders indicate to you that they are sincere about their plans
to take on entitlements? And do you think they are deliberately
exaggerating the crisis (inaudible)?  LEW: Look, I think we have got to change the rhetoric of
debate. If there is going to be civil discourse, we have to be
able to disagree with each other without calling each other
frauds and liars every time we disagree.  Somebody who has been the subject - no, no, no, no, no, I
am talking about the broader debate, somebody who is from the
press. It’s not just from political leaders.  I think that the tone of debate has to change if we are
going to take on these challenges. That’s what the president is
trying to do by saying let’s work together, let’s get into a
space where you can exchange ideas, not attack each other when
you start out by disagreeing, understand each other’s views, see
if you can options that are on the table as opposed to off of
the table.  So we started out with a different bearing. We are not
going into this in attack mode. We are going into it, we want to
work together.  Now I tend to give people the benefit of the doubt. I have
no reason to believe that they are not approaching this in good
faith.  I have - I haven’t seen any signs of it in my personal
dealings, and - we disagree deeply. There are things that I
would oppose that I would advise the president to oppose that we
would have to veto. That doesn’t mean that they are approaching
it in bad faith.  You look at the challenge that they have. I don’t know how
they are going to put together a budget. I look forward to
seeing their budget.  I know that if you look at the things that I have seen
publicly, it doesn’t add to a lot of  deficit reduction . Because
we are against extending the tax cuts at the upper end, ‘hey are
for extending the tax cuts.  We are against extending the estate tax provisions. We want
to go back to the ‘09 provisions. They are for extending the
more generous provisions.  We are - we’ve got specific proposals out there on many
areas of spending. They are still developing them.  I don’t know what they are saving. They are going to have a
big hole to fill to show real deficit reduction, and I think
it’s premature for me to judge how they are going to do that.  QUESTION: So I should ask you: What have the House
Republican leaders been like to work with?  LEW: Look, most of the dealings so far have been around
getting through the 2011 issues, because that’s the first order
of business. Sequentially, we have got to finish 2011. There is
going to have to be a vote on the debt limit. Then we have got
to get on to the 2012 and the multiyear budget issues.  We obviously think those are all discrete and separate.
Others have a different view.  I think that if you look at the actions - I am loath to
describe private conversations in relationships where we are
just beginning to develop trust, but if you look at the public
actions, I think that if you look at the decisions that the
House has made on the continuing resolution, it’s been to find
areas where there could be agreement.  We didn’t sign onto the principle that CRs should cut $2
billion a month. We won’t sign onto that principle. We reject
that principle.  On the other hand, we have said, - pardon?  QUESTION: It’s $2 billion a week, isn’t it? Is it -  LEW: $2 billion a week, I’m sorry, $2 billion a week, $2
billion a week. I -  QUESTION: Got you.  LEW: I stand corrected. It just shows you how unreasonable,
$2 billion a week as a principle is that I have translated it in
my mind. No, $2 billion a week is not an acceptable principle.  On the other hand, we’ve said we want to work together to
find common ground. Where we agree, let’s agree.  The things that they have put in these short-term CRs meet
a standard of things that we could accept, and I think that that
is an indication that they were looking for something that could
be signed into law and not to have a crisis. It would have been
easy to put together packages of $4 billion and $6 billion that
we would have had to veto. It would be easy. And I think that
you have to look at that as an indication of kind of a pragmatic
approach that there’s two parties here.  Now it’s going to be harder on both the big 2011 bill and
when we get to 2012 and beyond. And these are baby steps that
are all-consuming until you finish them, but so are baby steps.  QUESTION: (inaudible) That’s the problem -  QUESTION: (inaudible) on 2011? Who are you talking to on
the other side?  LEW: Yes. I am really not going to go into the details of
conversations. I think that -  QUESTION: (inaudible)  LEW: The vice president met with the leaders. That was a
public meeting. We have continued to coordinate with the
leaders, and as they have asked us to talk to others, we’ve
talked to others.  QUESTION: Do you have any sense of the divisions on their
side as you have talked to them? Do they have a single decision
on their (inaudible)?  LEW: I - again, I am going to look to what’s been done
publicly. I think you don’t have to look beyond yesterday’s vote
to see transparently that there are their challenges on their
side.  I have said from the very beginning of the year that
everyone says, why don’t the administration and the Congress
engage? And I don’t say this so much as an observation about
this caucus or this year. Every new leadership, very new
majority has to take a time to settle in and understand where
the balance of its own caucus is and what they can do, what they
can’t do. And I think that they’re in that process now.  Ultimately, ultimately I hope we can get to a place where
we are doing things in a bipartisan way, where, if we get away
from needing to do things on a purely party-line vote, I think
it opens up an avenue to reasonable compromise. But I can’t
manage the politics within another caucus. That’s just my hope.  QUESTION: Within each average CR booklet it seems like, on
both sides, that the parties kind of fracture a little bit more
on their (inaudible), what that they consider apparent. Does
that make you more or less optimistic for a longer-term deal?  LEW: I think that the - there is no doubt that the longer-
term is harder than 2011. The decisions are bigger.  Time has a very different character than it used to have.
If you look at the progression of the debate on just domestic
discretionary spending from last fall to now, I remember before
I was confirmed as OMB director, the conventional wisdom was
that the McCaskill-Sessions levels were unachievable, and they
are now left in the dust. We are way, way beyond those levels in
terms of what everyone is working on.  So I think it’s very hard to look at where we have been and
understand how that dynamic will change in the future.  I think if we can develop a relationship of trust, where
the parties are able to work together, and there is an agreement
that we should be reducing spending, there also needs to be an
agreement that we need to reduce deficits. And I think that’s an
important distinction because one can reduce spending and do
nothing about the deficit. I think that we have to do both.  And if there is an agreement that we are going both reduce
spending and reduce deficits, that can lead to a frame of
reasonable conversation. If it’s just about reducing spending
without regard to the deficit, it’s not going to solve the
problem.  QUESTION: But are there Republicans who speak in those
terms that you are dealing with?  LEW: Look, I don’t want to exaggerate the - you asked me
are we engaged. I said on 2011 we’ve been engaged. I think that
there are activities going on looking beyond 2011, but there is
a certain inevitable sequence to the process.  Until you get beyond 2011, you are not going to be
seriously - that’s one of the reasons we have got to get a full-
year resolution, because you need to move beyond the short-term.
It doesn’t serve the American people well for us to spend all
the energies at senior levels of government on solving two- and
three-week problems. We should talk, be talking about the real
problems.  I think I look to the conversations going on on the Hill
and I take some encouragement from the fact that there are
bipartisan conversations going on on the Hill, not necessarily
out of the committees that are going to write the legislation,
but important conversations are going on. I think that the - you
won’t know if there is going to be the ability to come together
until we get into a place where sides move off of their opening
positions.  If everyone stays with their opening positions, it
obviously doesn’t look all that promising, but that’s not how
successful negotiations and successful engagements work. There
is always some move.  I think if you look to the - where we are on the short-term
CRs, which is all that has happened so far, it suggests a
pragmatism. I don’t want to project from that what that means
about 2012 or the multiyear. I don’t want to over-read. I don’t
want to under-read.  QUESTION: So then how do you maximize your chances and
we’re not sitting here having this conversation in December of
2012, same concerns about this? How are you going to maximize
the chances of getting something other than a 2011 (inaudible)?  LEW: I think that there are - the simple answer is that we
don’t ever get to go back and reclaim lost time. We need to make
progress. We need to have realistic expectations about how long
it’s going to take and how far you can go in each move, but you
don’t - you need to start.  And I think as we - if we look at the political environment
that has animated the discussion around 2011, there is clearly a
lot of focus on the fact that the public is unhappy about not
getting our hands around some of these issues sooner. It has
been focused more on spending than deficit reduction, but I
think that one leads to the other.  I am not sure that most people, when they say that the
government should reduce spending, are thinking that there is a
difference between spending and deficits. They see - but we have
a responsibility collectively to make it clear that it’s not
just about spending, it’s about deficits, and we have to do
both.  QUESTION: Not just about spending. It’s about deficits. You
mean it’s very difficult to move forward unless the Republicans
agree to put revenues as part of the conversation?  LEW: Well, I think that first of all, as I think everyone
at this table knows, discretionary, domestic discretionary
spending is roughly 12 percent of the budget. One cannot solve
our deficit problem by simply cutting away at it.  If we end up cutting things that make it impossible for us
to compete economically in the next decade, that would be very
shortsighted. So the problem cannot be solved in the confines of
appropriations bills.  The - there is going to have to be a serious conversation
with everything on the table in terms of revenues and mandatory
spending, and that’s hard. I think what the president has done
is to try and create an environment where we maximize the chance
of having the kind of conversation that can lead to real action
in a difficult political environment.  I can’t say that there is a guarantee; you never have a
guarantee. But I frankly think that if the focus shifted from
who is going first to when are they going to talk together and,
frankly, even the - all the calls for leadership, some of it is
code. It’s code for “You go first, you go farther.” And what
we are saying is we need to find a way to work together.  HUNT: Jackie, I know you have a question and I want to
follow up on David, but you go ahead.  QUESTION: Well, go ahead and follow up on David.  HUNT: Well, would you - you say you can’t solve the deficit
problem through spending through appropriations. Is it equally
through the discretionary program? Would you also say you cannot
solve the long-term deficit problem without revenues?  LEW: I think the president’s budget speaks for itself.  HUNT: But you guys clearly believe that, so are any
Republican - are Republicans that you are talking to on the Hill
beginning to acknowledge that yet? Or are they still drawing a
firm line on taxes?  LEW: I don’t think there is a monolith of either
Republicans or Democrats on the Hill or in  Washington .  HUNT: How about the Republican leaders? Do you think that
there is an acceptance yet that there is no way, according to
you all, to reach a long-term deficit situation without taxes?  LEW: I think if you look at the Bowles-Simpson commission,
you look at the Group of 6 in the Senate, that is a bipartisan -
those are bipartisan conversations. I think you see - if - what
the contribution that I think the Bowles-Simpson commission made
that is very important, that we have been trying to have, get
people to keep focusing on, is there are different ways of
defining taking on revenues.  They defined taking on revenues as cutting expenditures on
the tax side. That’s a fine principle. It’s a principle that
many of us remember as an old idea and now it’s a new idea and -  HUNT: Of course no House member signed on to that.  LEW: No.  HUNT: The question is, are any of the  House Republicans 
beginning to at least have those conversations?  LEW: I think that it’s - I am not the right one to comment
on where the House Republicans are ready to go. I think that I
can comment on defining the challenge, and it’s clear that if we
are going to make the kind of serious progress we need to, and
again I would point to our budget as reflecting our view of it,
it’s not tenable to sustain the  tax cut  at the high end. We just
can’t afford it.  The president said that last year as he signed legislation
to temporarily extend it, so it’s a not a new position and it’s
not a new difference. I am not going to say that we are on the
verge of an agreement on that principle. And I understand that
that is something that is going to be a very difficult political
battle if that - but I think it represents very much our view
that you can’t solve this just on the spending side.  QUESTION: This isn’t what I was going to ask about -  LEW: And just add, there’s things in our budget beyond
that, whether it’s tax subsidies for the oil and gas industry or
other things where we have said that, as we have in past
budgets, that the  tax code  needs to be cleaned up and we need to
stop doing some things that cost a lot of money that are not
necessary for our economic future.  QUESTION: All those talks about who is going to go first
and farthest as you said on entitlements, but on that revenue
side, we had late last year not just Bowles-Simpson, but
Domenici-Rivlin, the  National Science Foundation . There was a
number of these packages, all which had in common that you have
to have all spending, discretionary and entitlements, and
military and domestic, and you had to have revenues.  And you have some of those conservative senators from the
Republican or the Republican parties agreeing that that there is
very - it’s all about entitlements and it is there’s - how do
you get it to a - it seemed late last year that that was the
beginning of a discussion where it was - everything was on the
table, but it doesn’t seem like the House Republicans are there
at all. And I don’t - and the administration doesn’t seem to be
at least publicly pushing them in that direction. It’s like a
denial, and I think the press is a bit complicit, too, that it’s
all about spending. I - really there’s a question in here
somewhere, but -  QUESTION: We were looking for it, Jackie.  QUESTION: But how - why aren’t revenues a bigger
(inaudible)? It seems as if the whole Republican leadership is
the only people and the players that are in denial about this,
but nobody is - why aren’t you forcing them to publicly stop
that denial?  LEW: I’m trying to figure out what question I’m answering,
but I’ll -  QUESTION: She gave you a lot of choices.  LEW: I think that the -  QUESTION: You repeat the questions and you can tell us.  LEW: I think that the -  QUESTION: Can you repeat the question?  LEW: I don’t think there is a question of starting out by
forcing each other to do one thing or another. The question is,
can we define some objectives that we can agree on, and then can
you get to work on them?  We are not in disagreement that there is a need for
spending reduction. The president’s budget established that
before we got into any kind of negotiation on the CR.  The president’s budget was dramatically clear in saying
that we have to reduce spending, but it also said that we have
to address other parts of the equation as well. We haven’t
stopped saying that.  It - we can’t compel other parties to accept that
principle. It’s not - so I am not sure what one would do to
compel a party, but we need to make a case. We need to - if we
accept the principle that deficit reduction is the goal, and if
we can work together towards deficit reduction as well as
spending reduction, I think that we will see where there is room
for compromise and progress.  I just don’t think - I don’t think that you - you look at
the actions taken to date by the House, they don’t even, with
the spending reductions if they all happen, reduce the deficit.
The repeal of the Affordable Care Act costs money, the - not
going to become law, but you look at the actions of the House.  The waiver of, or amendment of, the pay-go rules so that
you don’t need to have offsets for tax cuts ultimately opens the
door towards increasing the deficit. So I think you have to
start with this very basic principle that we have got to reduce
spending, but we also have to reduce the deficit. I think if we
can agree to a principle about deficit reduction, that would be
important.  HUNT: Then we cannot take up entitlements then without
taking up taxes? You have to take them both up. You can’t do
entitlements and say (inaudible).  LEW: I in general avoid making global statements about
things. We have dealt with taxes on their own and entitlements
on their own.  HUNT: That’s not global. That’s very basic, isn’t it?  LEW: No. For the 30 years that I am familiar with you have
seen them come up either separately or together, so -  HUNT: But if you are talking deficit reduction long-term,
don’t you have to say you have to do them both?  LEW: I think that if you look at past deficit reduction
efforts that have been successful, that have been balanced and
they have represented the different things that caused the
problem, so that certainly has historically been the case. I
think that if you look ahead, that’s what we have proposed as a
way to go forward. And I am just going to avoid making kinds of
global statements.  QUESTION: (inaudible) I am not aware of anything the House
Republicans have said or done that indicates they are willing to
move from this - this it’s all about spending paradigm and no
talk about revenue and the president has to go first on
entitlements. That - what gives you optimism in anything they
have said or done that they are going to move?  LEW: The simple answer is with the choice between optimism
and pessimism, I always choose optimism.  QUESTION: (inaudible) There often is a point.  LEW: Look, I cannot - I can’t speak for House Republicans.
I obviously disagree with many of the policies that they have
put forward.  I can say that if we are going to make progress, it’s going
to require flexibility on both sides. I think that if there is
not flexibility on both sides, it’s going to be hard to make
progress.  And so, to some extent, my optimism is conditional. In a
divided government the - you can have deadlock or you can have
progress. It’s hard to force one or the other to do what they
don’t want to do.  So my optimism is that I think I know where the president’s
compass is, and I am comfortable that in the negotiation we are
in now in 2011, there is a clear line that he is not going to
cross. And in a multiyear budget conversation, he has got
principles that matter deeply to him. That gives me comfort
engaging that the worst outcome of just kind of having bad
things happen, you have a safeguard against.  The optimist in me looks at projections of the - of - I
testified before most of the committees of jurisdiction. They
seem to think it’s a problem that, with projections, that the
debt is going to exceed 100 percent of GDP. Well, the only way
for that to be avoided is to reduce the deficit.  And if you are going to reduce the deficit you have to be
realistic about approaching it. And I believe the facts actually
ultimately affect the way people look at things, and you just
keep going at it. I can’t -  QUESTION: Now that’s optimistic.  LEW: I can’t say that there has been a great opening
publicly. You haven’t seen it, and I haven’t seen it. But I do
know what the facts are. The facts are you are not going to turn
the tide on the growth of the debt as a percentage of GDP, which
is a threat if it’s not turned, without dealing with all of the
things that actually contribute to the deficit going up.  And that fact is just a fact. And I certainly wouldn’t be
working as hard as I am working if I thought it was impossible.  QUESTION: Can I ask a question on -  HUNT: David, David.  QUESTION: Oh no, it’s something.  QUESTION: What is the debt ceiling, both an opportunity to
put some framework in place, (inaudible)?  LEW: Look, obviously our view is that the debt limit vote
should be done clean. It should not be attached to the broader
set of issues. The debt limit does not cause the problem. The
debt limit is merely the manifestation of decisions already
made, and a great nation has to honor its obligations. So I
don’t want to in any way suggest that we have changed our view
on that.  There obviously are other views abroad that would suggest
that there should be conversations around that. I think it’s a
little bit early. Frankly, the intense focus on finishing 2011
business, just in the sequence of the work that is being taking
up, have pushed that out a little bit, and it’s coming closer
each week.  So you look at the likely expiration of the short-term CR
April 8, the space from then to the serious engagement on the
debt limit is a blink of an eye. So it’s something that we will
start to develop I think right after we can clear out the old
business of 2011, and the sooner the better.  QUESTION: I want to ask about the government reorganization
principle stuff. A presidential memorandum was issued last week.
Where are you in the process, and what are we likely to see come
out of the recommendations? And the president sort of targeted
the Commerce Department in the State of the Union. Are we likely
to see something on a really large scale, a small scale?  LEW: I think it’s premature to speak to the outcomes. Jeff
Zients, who is deputy director of OMB for management, chief
performance officer, is the head of this project. He is doing a
great job reaching out to all the stakeholders, trying to have
it be driven by as much fact as we can quickly develop.  A lot of people have thought about these subjects before,
so you are not starting totally from scratch. And there is a lot
of benefits that could come from rationalizing how we do it. We
are not looking at taking on everything all at once everywhere,
so it’s going to be sequential going -  QUESTION: Trade first?  LEW: The president focused on export enhancement. That’s
going to be an organizing principle at the beginning, but in the
course of gathering information, there is also a broader look
being taken. So it’s a little bit early to suggest where it’s
going. It’s not an effort that’s designed to kind of find the
maximum number of things that we can kind of turn over or
combine. It’s an effort that’s being designed to answer the
question, how can we do the things we do better more effectively
and more efficiently?  HUNT: Let me bring you back to the CR. Let me see if my
understanding is correct.  LEW: So much for the long-term.  HUNT: No, but you - I think what you said was even for an
optimist, you are optimistic about getting a resolution on this,
the current fiscal year, with some lines drawn in the sand which
they seem to be aware of, and that the biggest impediment may
well be the riders. Is that accurate?  LEW: Well, I don’t want to be overly optimistic. We don’t
yet have the agreement on the money, and I think it’s going to
be a hard move. The president has said he would veto the package
of $100 billion. There are points below that, that between where
things are now and $100 billion, that we could live with. I hope
we can work our way towards that. I think that the - if you look
at the evolution of the $100 billion, you can see various points
that their own position has evolved, which give you ideas of
where there may be different points of potential, kind of,
stability.  On the riders, it’s - and again this may just be based too
much on my own history, they are more emotional sometimes than
the individual funding levels, and that’s why we were so clear
right at the start that it was not acceptable to put extraneous
social policy and broad policy directive in a must-fund
continuing resolution. It’s just not - it’s not going to be
acceptable to us, and we are going to have to work our way
through that. I don’t - I certainly hope that we will be able to
work through it in this three-week period, because that would be
the right thing to do.  QUESTION: Oh, I’m sorry if I could pick up the torch of
conditional optimism? You’re the top. You said that in these big
-  LEW: My optimism is increasingly challenged these days as I
read the newspaper, but -  QUESTION: Toward the top you said that in your baby-step
conversations with I think Republican leaders was (inaudible),
that you sense some pragmatism. I wonder if you could just
elaborate on that.  LEW: To be clear, I referred to actions, not our
conversations. I said if you look at the actions taken, the
actions taken reflect pragmatism.  QUESTION: OK.  LEW: I was careful not to characterize the conversations.  QUESTION: So could you elaborate on -?  LEW: No. I am not going to talk about the conversations. I
am, yes -  QUESTION: What makes you think that their actions suggest
pragmatism?  LEW: Look, I think if you look at the bill that passed the
House yesterday and you look at the things that are in there,
the $6 billion of savings, the composition of it is - reflects
something that they had a very high degree of confidence would
be acceptable. That’s pragmatic.  One could have put a $6 billion package together that was
$5 billion of things that were acceptable and $1 billion of
things that were daring us to veto it. They didn’t do that. I
applaud them for that. That’s responsible. That’s the way you
put things together when you want both sides to agree.  And it wasn’t done completely in the dark, so there was
some knowledge of what boundaries were. And that gives me the
sense that it was designed to reach a constructive conclusion.
Not that a three-week CR is such a great accomplishment, I am
not saying that it’s something that will go in any of our
memoirs as the thing we are most proud of, but it beats a
government shutdown by a long shot. And -  HUNT: The greatest 21 days. We have time for one more
question. Jackie Calmes, Jackie’s going to make a comeback.
Everybody -  QUESTION: Remember, that other question wasn’t what I was
going to ask, now I got to make this one.  QUESTION: And transcribe that.  QUESTION: We have seen in the Middle East - we are seeing
in the Middle East to  Japan  just how quickly external events can
change things, can threaten the global economy and perhaps  -
what is the thinking within the new administration economic team
about what the tipping point is? You have - so many people talk
about this as key. This is setting the table for, say, 2013 to
get something broad and comprehensive done, but what is your
thinking within as to how much time there actually is before the
markets see signs that the U.S.’s political system is just
incapable of doing what needs to be done to (inaudible)?  HUNT: Japan probably changed that dynamic anyway.  LEW: So I, look, I think that those are separate, very
separate issues. Obviously there is a lot of things going on in
the world that we don’t have total control over. No one
controlled the weather in Japan and the horrible consequences.  QUESTION: Well, I only raise those who suggest that it can
shape (inaudible) -  LEW: Yes. I think that we just have to all be humble about
the fact that we work in an environment where there are things
we control and things we don’t control, and we should take
responsibility for the things we control and do the very best we
can and then respond as well as we can when the things that are
unpredictable happen.  We have experts going to Japan to help, but we have to
have, again, a certain amount of humility. We - no one expected
an earthquake and a tsunami of that scale there or anywhere
else.  If you look at the political developments in the Middle
East, the - we have to make our policies domestically,. assuming
that there will be surprises. And it just underscores the need
for us to be responsible and focused in doing our business.  I don’t think we should turn on a dime every time there is
a crisis around the world. If we have a plan for how to manage
the U.S .economy well, we just stick to it. There are things we
need to do as we respond, but I do think we need to keep them
separate.  And we have tried to, and we look at the energy situation
very closely. What we do or don’t do to respond to the current
energy prices and issues relating out of the Middle East, I
think it’s totally separate from what we do in terms of managing
our fiscal policy.  The thing we know for sure - that the stronger we are in
terms of managing our fiscal affairs to send a signal both
domestically and to the world that we are taking responsible
actions, the stronger we are. That’s why Mike Mullen, when he
described the kind of long-term debt as a national security
challenge, perhaps the biggest national security challenge, I
think hit it on the nose.  That should underscore why we need to get beyond
partisanship. We need to work on defining the problem that we
can get our hands around. And we need to get to the work of
finding the reasonable middle ground, not defining the
differences.  And that’s what the president is about. That’s what we are
about, and if I think we stay focused on it, the optimist in me
says we will make progress.  And I think no one should expect that there is an instant
solution. There is not an instant solution. And I frankly don’t
think that the American people, or the world or the markets
expect an instant solution. They expect us to be doing things
that make progress, not denying the problem, and having a vision
and a path.  And I think our budget reflects our first shot at that.
It’s an invitation now to engage when we see what an opposing
view is, and then coming out of it with some resolution.  HUNT: Ken is giving us the hook. I assume therefore Japan
has not changed any of your calculations yet.  LEW: Look, obviously Japan is an enormous human tragedy. If
you look at it in macroeconomic terms, I don’t think it has the
- any reason that we would immediately to make any kinds of
changes.  Obviously, it raises all kinds of issues that are policy,
important policy and humanitarian issues, but I don’t think it
fundamentally changes the direction of the  U.S. economy .  HUNT: If your optimism doesn’t pay off, you can come back
and (inaudible) 21-day saga.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.  #<372076.7439435.2.1.77.31389.96># -0- Mar/17/2011 23:39 GMT    