-- 
Former Deutsche Bank CEO Breuer Rejected Deal in Kirch Criminal Fraud Case

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-05-25T10:37:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/ex-deutsche-bank-ceo-rolf-breuer-to-stand-trial-over-kirch-feud.html
Former  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief
Executive Officer  Rolf Breuer , charged with attempted fraud over
his testimony in a lawsuit filed by  Leo Kirch , rejected a
settlement with prosecutors that would have included a fine and
a suspended prison sentence.  Breuer declined to accept a so called penal order that
would have included a suspended one-year prison term, his lawyer
Sven Thomas said in an interview today. The deal would have also
included a fine, two people familiar with the issue said. They
declined to be identified because the negotiations weren’t
public.  “There were talks but we rejected the proposal because we
have a clear acquittal strategy,” said Thomas. “We may have
settled had the prosecution agreed to drop charges for a very
small amount.”  The case is part of a nine-year-old fight over Breuer’s
comments about the creditworthiness of Kirch’s media group.
Kirch claimed the comments precipitated the group’s bankruptcy
and filed suits for a total of at least 3.3 billion euros ($4.6
billion), which are pending. The banks and Breuer rejected a 775
million-euro settlement over the civil litigation proposed by a
judge in March.  Thomas said he “doesn’t remember” what amount the
prosecution offered as part of the deal since the terms were
unacceptable from the start.  The talks were held in the period before a Munich court
allowed the charges to proceed to trial in March. A suspended
sentence means that while the prison term is imposed by the
court, the defendant won’t spend any time in jail unless they
commit another violation.  Barbara Stockinger, spokeswoman for Munich prosecutors,
declined to comment.  Television Interview  Prosecutors charged Breuer in 2009, claiming he lied to
judges in one of the civil suits Kirch filed over a 2002
Bloomberg Television interview.  In the TV interview, given in February 2002, Breuer said
“everything that you can read and hear” is that “the
financial sector isn’t prepared to provide further” loans or
equity to Kirch. Within months, Kirch’s group filed the
country’s biggest bankruptcy since World War II.  At an appeals court hearing in Munich in November 2003,
Breuer told the judges that his comments were based on what was
publicly known at the time about the media group and not on
internal bank information. Breuer said that he “had never seen
the Kirch credit file” at Deutsche Bank and didn’t see
correspondence with  Germany ’s financial regulator, according to
the indictment.  Prosecutors say Breuer’s initials are on a copy of a
September 2001 letter the regulator sent Deutsche Bank to
inquire about its risks in light of Kirch’s financial trouble,
indicating he saw the document.  A trial date hasn’t been set yet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 