-- 
Ex-Goldman Oil Trader Gilbert Saiz’s Fund Said to Advance 8.2% in February

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n   a n d   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 
2011-03-17T13:26:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/ex-goldman-oil-trader-gilbert-saiz-s-fund-said-to-advance-8-2-in-february.html
Vector Commodity Management LLP, a
hedge fund run by former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  trader Gilbert Saiz, made 8.2 percent last month, six times the industry
average, said two people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Vector returned 12.2 percent this year, adding to the 8.6
percent gain made from when it started in June to the end of
2010, the people said, declining to be identified because the
data are private. The fund managed $258 million by Jan. 31, a
fund report obtained by Bloomberg shows. Saiz didn’t respond to
an e-mail and a voicemail seeking comment.  The hedge fund beat bigger rivals last month, including the
$2.2 billion BlueGold Fund, the $5 billion Clive Fund, the
Viridian Fund and the Merchant Commodity Fund, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Vector invests in crude and oil products,
with a relative-value strategy that seeks to profit from price
gaps between contracts.  “The success of the relative-value approach is starting to
show up” in the results of some funds, Fraser McKenzie, head of
research at 47 Degrees North Capital Management Ltd., said from
Pfaeffikon,  Switzerland . He declined to comment on whether his
company invests in Vector.  Commodity hedge funds as measured by the Newedge Commodity
Trading Index on average returned 1.3 percent last month, as the
Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials posted a
sixth monthly increase, advancing 3.3 percent.  ‘Relative’ Plays  Relative-value strategies invest in relationships such as
crack spreads, or the difference between crude and refined
products, and time spreads, or the gap between delivery dates
for the same commodity.  Crude oil climbed as high as $106.95 a barrel in  New York 
on March 7 as turmoil in the Middle East and Libyan supply cuts
drove prices to the highest level since September 2008.  McKenzie of 47 Degrees North said the rally boosted  oil
prices  for immediate delivery the most, weakening the premium,
or the contango, for later-dated contracts. “I think that was
one of the biggest and most profitable trades in the first
couple of months” for hedge funds, he said.  Oil recovered to more than $100 a barrel in New York today,
as concerns that political unrest may cut Middle Eastern exports
countered estimates that the earthquake in  Japan  will curtail
fuel demand.  Hedge funds and other speculators have increased their
positions in energy markets by 64 percent since June 2008 to the
highest level on record, according to data from U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commissioner Bart Chilton this week.  Hedge Funds  Speculative positions represented more than one million
energy futures equivalent contracts as of January, the data
showed. Positions in metals and agricultural contracts have
increased about 20 percent, according to Chilton.  Saiz, 35, graduated from Columbia University School of
Engineering and Applied sciences in 1997. He spent his entire
career at J. Aron/Goldman Sachs, according to a biography on the
fund’s website. He was an executive director in charge of
Goldman’s European fuel-oil business from 2005 to 2009. Vector’s
chief executive officer, Edmund Gordon-Clark, was formerly
managing director of shipping derivatives at ICAP Plc.  The London-based BlueGold fund rose 7.5 percent in
February, two people with direct knowledge of the matter said
earlier this month. Its manager, Pierre Andurand, also started
his career at Goldman Sachs, where he traded oil products in  Singapore , before moving to Bank of America Corp. and Vitol
Group.  The Clive Fund, which started trading in December 2007,
gained 4.9 percent in February, two people with direct knowledge
of the matter said earlier this month. Chris Levett, the founder
of London-based Clive, is a former trader at Moore Capital
Management LLC.  Viridian, Merchant  The Viridian Fund, managed by New York-based Drew Gilbert
and Chris Nygaard, returned 3.9 percent last month, taking the
two-month advance to 7.8 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The fund managed $1.1 billion at the end of February,
the data show. Gilbert and Nygaard co-founded Vermillion Asset
Management and started Viridian in June 2005. Chris Gillick, a
spokesman for Vermillion, declined to comment on its strategy.  The Merchant Commodity Fund, managed by ex-Cargill Inc.
traders  Michael Coleman  in Singapore and  Doug King  in Zug,
Switzerland, lost 3.7 percent in February and 4.8 percent in the
first two months, according to two people with direct knowledge
of the matter. Merchant had about $1.56 billion under management
as of the end of December and advanced about 28 percent in 2010,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Hedge funds are largely unregulated investment vehicles
whose managers can trade any asset, aim to make money regardless
of whether markets rise or fall and participate substantially in
profits from money invested.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net 
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  