-- 
Ex-UBS Banker Poteroba Deserves 30 to 37 Months for Fraud, Prosecutors Say

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-03-17T15:26:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/ex-ubs-banker-poteroba-should-get-up-to-37-months-u-s-says.html
Igor Poteroba, a former  UBS AG (UBSN) 
investment banker who pleaded guilty to  insider trading , should
get 30 to 37 months in prison when he’s sentenced next week,
prosecutors argued in court papers.  Poteroba, 37, pleaded in December to one count of
conspiracy to commit securities fraud and three counts of
securities fraud. His lawyers argued in court papers last week
that the 12 months he has spent already in a federal jail
awaiting sentencing is the appropriate term.  “Poteroba was not a one-time tipper; rather he provided
repeated tips over the course of several confidential
transactions spanning a number of years,” prosecutors said in a
sentencing memorandum filed late yesterday in  Manhattan  federal
court. “Poteroba was also a sophisticated member of the
financial community who was more than well aware that his
conduct was wrong and illegal.”  The  securities fraud  counts each carries a maximum of 20
years in prison. The conspiracy charge is punishable by as long
as five years. As part of a plea agreement, Poteroba has agreed
to forfeit the $465,000 in proceeds from his insider trading.  Poteroba is scheduled to be sentenced March 21 by U.S.
District Judge Paul A. Crotty. The sentence requested by
prosecutors falls within the range called for by U.S. sentencing
guidelines, which aren’t binding.  Poteroba, who worked in UBS Securities LLC’s Global
Healthcare Group in New York, was charged and arrested in March
2010 along with Alexei Koval, a Chicago man who allegedly traded
on the information. Poteroba was accused of leaking tips about
potential mergers and acquisitions involving six public
companies to Koval and a third, unidentified person.  Koval pleaded guilty in January. His sentencing is
scheduled for May 24.  The case is U.S. v. Poteroba, 10-mag-00562, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 