-- 
Former Yale Lab Worker Clark Pleads Guilty to Murdering Student Annie Le

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-03-17T17:00:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/ex-yale-lab-worker-clark-pleads-guilty-to-murdering-student-annie-le.html
Former Yale University laboratory
worker Raymond Clark pleaded guilty to murdering 24-year-old
graduate student Annie Le days before she was to be married.  Clark entered his plea today before  Connecticut  Superior
Court Judge Roland Fasano in New Haven. He had pleaded not
guilty to murder charges in January last year.  Clark, 26, was arrested in September 2009 and has been held
on $3 million bail. He was accused of strangling Le, a
pharmacology student, five days before her Sept. 13, 2009,
wedding. Clark cleaned mouse cages in the Yale lab building
where her body was found.  Clark pleaded guilty to one count of murder and one count
of attempted sexual assault. Prosecutors said Clark agreed to a
plea deal of 44 years in prison. Sentencing was tentatively
scheduled for May 20.  Prosecutor David Strollo said that when Le’s body was
found, her bra was pushed up toward her head and her panties
pushed down to her feet. He also said Clark was found, while in
custody after his arrest, with two notes in his sock reaching
out to people for an alibi.  The notes “clearly show a consciousness of guilty
action,” Strollo told the court today.  Search Warrants  Le’s body was discovered hidden behind a wall in the
basement of the Yale School of Medicine research lab at 10
Amistad Street in  New Haven  the day she was to be married. The
Office of Connecticut’s Chief Medical Examiner said Le died of
“traumatic asphyxiation due to neck compression.”  Clark’s arrest affidavit showed that before his arrest,
police had found at the crime scene a green-ink pen and a blood-
stained sock with both Clark’s and Le’s DNA on them.  Investigators found Le’s e-mail address in a locker marked
“Ray” in the lab building where they both worked, according to
search warrants unsealed in December 2009.  Yale University Police Officer Sabrina Wood observed Clark
in the lab acting suspiciously two days after Le’s death,
attempting to conceal a blood-spattered box of wipes, according
to the arrest affidavit by New Haven Detective Scott Branfuhr.
The box was on a steel cart in the last room Le logged into with
her security card. The spatter matched her DNA, according to the
affidavit.  Le, a Vietnamese-American who was studying for a doctorate,
was from Placerville,  California , according to a September 2009
Yale University statement. She graduated from the University of
Rochester in  New York , where she met her fiance, Jonathan
Widawsky, the university said.  ‘Put in Jail’  “The most important thing is that the family see Raymond
Clark put in jail for his adult life,” Joe Tacopina, a lawyer
for Le’s mother and Le’s estate, said outside the courthouse
after the proceeding.  “After the sentencing we may determine who else may be
held accountable," he added. He said he hasn’t filed a civil
suit yet.  Clark’s father, Raymond Clark II, also spoke today outside
the courthouse.  ‘‘We are proud of Ray for taking responsibility for his
actions and pleading guilty,” he said. “I want you to know
that Ray has expressed extreme remorse from the very
beginning.”  “My family and I extend our deepest sympathy to the Le
family,” the elder Clark said.  Clark was suspended from his job when he was arrested, Yale
University President  Richard Levin  said in a 2009 statement.  The case is State v. Clark, CR09-97102-T, Connecticut
Superior Court (New Haven).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  