-- 
FAA, Airlines Track Japan Radiation Plume Over Pacific Ocean

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e ,   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t   a n d   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 
2011-03-17T20:30:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/faa-airlines-monitor-japan-radiation-plume-drifting-over-pacific-ocean.html
U.S. aviation regulators and
airline meteorologists are monitoring the radiation plume
drifting northeast from Japan’s damaged nuclear reactors to
ensure it doesn’t threaten commercial jet routes.  The  Federal Aviation Administration  hasn’t decided whether
any action is needed beyond tracking the cloud, a spokeswoman,
Laura Brown, said today in a telephone interview.  American
Airlines  and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  said their flights aren’t
going near any radioactive contamination.  “There’s no problem in avoiding anything that is currently
there,” said Tim Smith, a spokesman for  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American in  Fort Worth , Texas. “We’re already flying in from west of this
concern area anyway.”  The plume is heading over the Pacific Ocean and contains
radioactive barium and cesium emitted from the damaged Fukushima
Dai-Ichi power plant, Austria’s Meteorological and Geophysics
Center said on its  website . Particles may start moving northwest
if winds shift as expected, according to the data center.  Intensified U.S. efforts to detect radiation on flights
arriving from  Japan  have found no dangerous levels for
passengers or cargo, the Customs and Border Protection agency
said. The Fukushima plant is about 135 miles (220 kilometers)
north of  Tokyo  and is under a no-fly zone.  Delta’s Shift  Delta today became the first major U.S. carrier to change
its Japan service since the March 11 earthquake, tsunami and
subsequent radiation leak,  suspending service  at Tokyo’s Haneda
airport while maintaining its usual schedule at its Tokyo-Narita
hub. The move is an effort to “maximize operational
efficiency,” Atlanta-based Delta said on its website.  “Delta’s meteorology team is continuously monitoring wind
patterns and forecasts to ensure Delta flights are following
safe flight patterns,” a spokeswoman, Betsy Talton, said in an
e-mail.  A day earlier,  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  became the
first large U.S. airline to say travel had dwindled on Japan
routes, saying it has had a “measurable decline” in demand for
flights to the country. It signaled that some flying may be cut.  United Continental “will continue to provide the level of
service that is warranted by demand and which can be operated
safely,” said Andrew Ferraro, a spokesman for the Chicago-based
company. He declined to comment on whether seating capacity to
Japan will be trimmed.  United, Lufthansa  The full schedule of 183 weekly departures to Japan for the
Chicago-based company’s United and Continental brands remains
intact except for a route between Guam and Sendai, where the
airport was damaged, Ferraro said in an e-mail.    Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  was the first major carrier to
reroute flights away from Tokyo amid fears of radioactive
fallout. Service is being rerouted south to Osaka and Nagoya
through the weekend at least, Chief Executive Officer Christoph Franz said in a speech in Frankfurt, its main hub.  British Airways and Air Canada are among carriers pulling
crews out of Tokyo, while  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  reported
plummeting travel to the country.  Narita is Japan’s main overseas gateway by air, and Haneda
is focused on domestic routes while also handling some
international flights.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net ;
John Hughes in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  