-- 
Ex-Washington Mutual Officials Killinger, Rotella Sued by FDIC Over Losses

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-03-17T20:22:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/fdic-sues-former-washington-mutual-ceo-kerry-killinger-for-negligence.html
Former  Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ)  Chief
Executive Officer Kerry Killinger and ex-Chief Operating Officer
Stephen Rotella took extreme risks with the bank’s home-loans
portfolio, causing billions of dollars in losses, the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. said in a lawsuit.  Rotella, Killinger and David Schneider,  Washington  Mutual’s
home-loans president, showed reckless disregard for the bank’s
long-term safety and instead focused on short-term gains to
increase their compensation, the FDIC said in the complaint
filed yesterday in federal court in Washington. The agency seeks
unspecified damages and an order freezing the assets of
Killinger, Rotella and their wives.  The former executives “should be held accountable for the
losses that the bank suffered as a result of their negligence,
gross negligence and breaches of fiduciary duty in mismanaging
the risks of WaMu’s HFI residential loan portfolio,” the FDIC
said in the complaint.  The FDIC has authorized lawsuits against 158 officers and
directors in an effort to recoup more than $3.5 billion in
losses stemming from the credit crisis, agency spokesman  Andrew Gray  said today in an e-mail. The agency, which has shuttered
more than 290 lenders since the start of 2008, has filed five
other cases against officers and directors, including one in
July seeking $300 million in damages from four executives of
IndyMac Bancorp Inc.  Killinger Blamed  Federal regulators seized WaMu, once the nation’s biggest
savings and loan, in September 2008 and sold it to  New York- 
based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for $1.9 billion.  Bank executives blamed Killinger during hearings before the  U.S. Senate  last year for ineffective management controls and
lax lending standards.  Killinger was CEO for 18 years before he was ousted on
Sept. 8, 2008. He told senators in April that his company became
the largest bank failure in U.S. history in part because it was
excluded from a group of financial institutions favored by U.S.
policy makers.  Rotella, who last year blamed Killinger for failing to
institute stricter lending controls, said in a letter to friends
and family that the FDIC suit was an abuse of power.  “This action runs counter to the facts about my relatively
short time at the company,” Rotella wrote in the letter, e-
mailed to Bloomberg by his spokesman, Daniel Hilley. “As you
might imagine, I am angered by this abuse of power by the FDIC.
More than anything, I am angered that my wife and children may
be subjected to the public attention this lawsuit may
generate.”  $100 Billion  WaMu’s high-risk loan portfolio exceeded $100 billion, with
product, underwriting and geographic risks “layered one on top
of the other,” the FDIC said. Instead of managing the bank’s
risks and establishing sound lending policies, the executives
were fixated on rewarding themselves, according to the
complaint. The men received more than $95 million in
compensation from January 2005 to September 2008, the FDIC said.  Killinger advocated for the bank taking on more credit risk
with less risk management, the FDIC said in the complaint,
citing a June 2004 company memorandum. In the memo, Killinger
expressed a goal of growing WaMu’s assets by at least 10 percent
a year and said “above average creation of  shareholder value 
requires significant risk taking,” according to the complaint.  Killinger and Rotella approved the first phase of WaMu’s
higher-risk lending strategy in January 2005, aiming to increase
the bank’s subprime market share to 12 percent from 4 percent,
over warnings from risk managers, according to the complaint.  ‘Flagship Product’  Option adjustable-rate mortgages became the bank’s “key
flagship product,” enticing marginal borrowers with low teaser
rates that dramatically increased later in the loan, according
to the complaint. Killinger and Rotella ignored repeated
warnings about the risks associated with the bank’s aggressive
lending practices, according to the complaint.  As early as February 2005, the bank’s chief risk officer
said in a memo that option ARM customers with 1 percent teaser
rates might see payments jump as much as 72 percent. Still, amid
repeated admissions that he foresaw a housing bubble in  California  and the bank’s other key states, Killinger continued
to push for higher-margin products such as ARMs and subprime
loans, according to the complaint.  ‘Main Architect’  “Killinger was the main architect of the Higher Risk
Lending Strategy,” the FDIC said in the complaint. “He wrote
the annual strategic memoranda from 2004 through 2007 that kept
the bank on its course of higher risk lending.”    Joseph Evangelisti , a spokesman for New York-based
JPMorgan, declined to comment. No phone number is listed for
Kerry or Linda Killinger in Washington State. His lawyer in
WaMu’s bankruptcy case, Charles Ekberg of Seattle, didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking comment.  Schneider couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.
Stephen Spence, a Wilmington lawyer who represented Schneider in
the WaMu bankruptcy case, didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment.  The case is FDIC v. Kerry K. Killinger, 11-00459, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Washington   Seattle ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  