-- 
Fed Said to Plan Telling Some Banks About Dividends Tomorrow

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-03-17T21:52:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/fed-is-said-to-plan-on-notifying-some-banks-tomorrow-of-dividend-decisions.html
The  Federal Reserve  will tell some
of the largest U.S. banks tomorrow whether it approved their
plans to boost dividends and buy back more shares, a person
briefed on the matter said.  The Fed ordered the 19 largest U.S. banks to test the
performance of their loans, securities and capital against at
least three possible economic outcomes under a second round of
stress tests. The banks submitted plans in January. The results
may be shared tomorrow, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the notifications are private.  Barbara Hagenbaugh , a Federal Reserve spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Executives at banks such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  have asked regulators to approve higher dividends or
stock buybacks as the firms recover from the financial crisis.
The Fed told banks to consider “conservative” payouts and
purchases that would still allow for “significant” build-ups
of capital, according to a November notice.  Dividends equaling about 30 percent of earnings “will be
the new normal,”  Gerard Cassidy , an analyst at RBC Capital
Markets, wrote in a Feb. 8 report.  Projected Payout  Wells Fargo Chief Financial Officer Timothy J. Sloan said
March 3 that the bank will “hopefully be in that first handful
of institutions that get the approval” from officials to return
more of its earnings to shareholders. San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo, which slashed its dividend to 5 cents a share from
34 cents in May 2009, will announce an increase of the payout to
15 cents in April, analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimate.  Wells Fargo and New York-based JPMorgan may be joined by
Capital One Financial Corp., State Street Corp., Bank of New
York Mellon Corp., PNC Financial Services Group Inc. and U.S.
Bancorp in receiving approval to raise dividends, Cassidy wrote.    Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S. lender, told
investors March 8 that its dividend increase won’t come until
the second half of this year, and the payout “will be modest as
we continue to build the capital.” The bank is based in
Charlotte,  North Carolina .  The Wall Street Journal reported on the timing of the
dividends earlier today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in Washington at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  