-- 
FedEx Fourth-Quarter Profit Forecast Beats Estimates on Economic Recovery

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-03-17T20:28:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/fedex-fourth-quarter-profit-forecast-beats-estimates-on-economic-recovery.html
  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , operator of the
world’s biggest cargo airline, climbed the most in five weeks
after predicting higher profit this quarter than analysts
estimated amid the global economic recovery.  The stock jumped 3.1 percent after FedEx said per-share
earnings for the fiscal fourth quarter ending May 31 will be
$1.66 to $1.83 a share. Analysts had projected $1.66, the
average of 22 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  FedEx is benefiting from a pickup in shipping and higher
prices, and said it may add flights to Japan to move rebuilding
materials and aid supplies after last week’s earthquake and
tsunami. FedEx and  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  deliver goods
ranging from mobile devices to pharmaceuticals and financial
documents, making them economic bellwethers.  “The company’s optimism could be surprising given the
problems in  Japan  and potential for higher fuel prices, but the
company sees increased import business in Japan” and continued
improvement in the global economy,  David Campbell , an analyst at
Thompson Davis & Co. in Richmond,  Virginia , said in an e-mail.
He recommends buying the shares.  FedEx surged $2.61 to $87.89 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange trading. The gain was the first after three declines
this week.  Quake Effect  The effects of the Japanese earthquake and tsunami on the
global economy, operational costs and shipping patterns are
unclear now, the Memphis, Tennessee-based company said in a
statement.  There may be some “pinch points” in supply chains in
Japan, with “some effect” on automotive and high-tech
production, founder and Chief Executive Officer Fred Smith said
on a conference call with analysts.  He said FedEx expects an increase in traffic into Japan for
reconstruction, and the company may add additional flights if
needed.  FedEx’s operations at  Tokyo ’s Narita airport were affected
for a couple days and have since returned to normal, and flights
to  Osaka  weren’t interrupted. FedEx and UPS suspended deliveries
to the worst-hit areas for several days.  Relative to FedEx’s entire operations, the impact from
Japan “won’t be significant overall,” Smith said.  FedEx may get about $1.7 billion in annual revenue from
Japan, or 4 percent of its total, and service suspensions may
cost the company about $3 million per day, Gary Chase, a New
York-based analyst at  Barclays Capital , estimated in a March 15
note to clients. A backlog of shipments may offset some declines
when service is fully restored, he said.  Quarterly Profit  Profit excluding certain items for its fiscal third quarter
ended Feb. 28 was 81 cents a share, compared with an average
estimate by analysts of 82 cents. Revenue rose 11 percent to
$9.66 billion, higher than the average estimate of $9.6 billion.  Including costs for restructuring its freight unit and
less-than-truckload operations, net income for the third quarter
slid 3 percent to $231 million, or 73 cents a share, from $239
million, or 76 cents, a year earlier.  The third-quarter gains were led by a 5 percent increase in
international priority shipping volumes as businesses sent more
goods abroad, while domestic express deliveries rose 2 percent
led by overnight envelopes that are typically stuffed with
financial and legal documents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  