-- 
FedEx Volumes Support Bernanke’s View U.S. Economy Is on ‘Firmer Footing’

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 
2011-03-17T14:14:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/fedex-volumes-support-bernanke-s-view-u-s-economy-is-on-firmer-footing-.html
Gains in  FedEx Corp. (FDX) ’s overnight
box shipments in the U.S. reinforce the  Federal Reserve ’s view
that the economic expansion is on a “firmer footing.”  Average daily volume rose 2.4 percent to 1.22 million boxes
in the quarter ended Feb. 28 from a year earlier, the second-
largest U.S. package-shipping company reported today. It was the
highest level of such shipments for a fiscal third quarter since
2006.  “FedEx’s overnight box volume is one of the most reliable
indicators of the state of the economy” because the speed of
shipments indicates demand is picking up, said Charles Clowdis,
managing director of transportation advisory services at IHS
Global Insight, a forecasting firm in Lexington, Massachusetts.
“Increased volumes certainly validate a steady recovery.”  Goods moved by the Memphis-based company account for at
least 5 percent of U.S. gross domestic product, with box
shipments reflecting everything from auto parts to consumer
purchases over the Internet, said Kevin Sterling, an analyst in
Richmond,  Virginia , at BB&T Capital Markets.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  this week said “the
economic recovery is on a firmer footing” as consumer and
business spending “continue to expand.” Policy makers also
affirmed plans to buy $600 billion of  Treasury securities 
through June.  At their prior meeting in January, central bankers raised
their projections for economic growth this year to 3.4 percent
to 3.9 percent, compared with November’s forecasts of 3 percent
to 3.6 percent.  ‘Increased Evidence’  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  this month told the Senate Banking
Committee that “we have seen increased evidence that a self-
sustaining recovery in consumer and business spending may be
taking hold.”  The Fed said in its  Beige Book survey  of its 12 regional
banks two weeks ago that “overall economic activity continued
to expand at a modest to moderate pace” early this year and
“all districts, except  St. Louis , experienced solid growth in
manufacturing production.”  FedEx forecast a profit for its fiscal fourth quarter that
topped analysts’ estimates.  “Our businesses are performing strongly in the  United
States  where industrial production growth is expected to
approach nearly 5 percent in calendar 2011, outpacing GDP and
supporting overall transportation volumes,” Fred Smith, FedEx
chairman and chief executive officer, said today in a conference
call.  Manufacturing output rose 0.4 percent in February following
a 0.9 percent gain the prior month that was three times as large
as the initial estimate, a Fed report showed today.  Air Transport  FedEx customers include Internet retailers such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and manufacturers including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , company
officials said at the Goldman Sachs Global Industrials
Conference last November. Under an agreement that runs through
September 2013, FedEx Express provides domestic air
transportation services to the U.S. Postal Service, according to
its annual report.  “The overall economy is humming along and continues to
improve,” said Sterling, who rates FedEx a “buy.”  “We will see further growth in the next several
quarters,” he said. “Industrial production continues to be
strong.”  FedEx stock rose 5.4 percent to $89.92 at 9:58 a.m. in New
York trading. In February, the company cut its quarterly
earnings forecast because of rising fuel prices and snowstorms
that snarled operations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  