-- 
Ford’s Lincoln, Toyota’s Lexus Top J.D. Power Dependability

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-03-17T15:39:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/ford-s-lincoln-toyota-s-lexus-top-j-d-power-study-bmw-trails.html
  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Lincoln brand led
J.D. Power & Associates’ annual study of vehicle dependability,
while more  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  models placed at the top of their
segments and Bayerische Motoren Werke AG trailed in the ratings.  Lincoln led the industry for the first time in the survey’s
21-year history as owners reported 101 problems per 100
vehicles, J.D. Power said today in a statement. Toyota’s Lexus
improved to second place, with 109 problems, from fourth place
last year, and the automaker’s namesake brand moved up one spot
to fifth with 122.  Higher-scoring manufacturers retain more buyers as well as
service business for their dealers, according to J.D. Power. The
industry averaged 151 problems per 100 vehicles in this year’s
survey, which polls buyers after three years of ownership.
That’s down from  155  last year and 167 in 2009.  “Automakers, as a whole, have made significant
improvements in reducing traditional problems” the past several
years, David Sargent, vice president of auto research at the  Westlake Village , California-based firm, said in a statement.  Seven of the top eight brands were luxury nameplates, as  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ’s Jaguar ranked third and Porsche SE’s namesake
finished fourth. After Toyota at fifth, Honda Motor Co.’s Acura
improved to sixth place, and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz jumped
to eighth.  BMW’s Mini brand owners reported the most problems in this
year’s survey, with 221 problems per 100 vehicles. The namesake
BMW brand also ranked below the industry average, with 164.  Buick, Cadillac Climb    General Motors Co. (GM) ’s volume-leading Chevrolet brand
improved, with 20 fewer problems per 100 vehicles than a year
earlier. The brand still had four more problems per 100 cars
than the industry average. GM’s Buick and Cadillac brands
finished in the top 10 and ahead of Ford’s main brand, which
beat the industry average for a fourth consecutive year.  Lincoln has moved up  J.D. Power  standings by standardizing
vehicles’ assembly and development processes and improving
design, said Scott Tobin, director of Lincoln product
development.  “The number one ranking is a foundation we’ll build from
to elevate the Lincoln brand,” which gets seven new or
refreshed models in the next four years, Tobin said in a
telephone interview.  J.D. Power’s study this year is based on a survey of more
than 43,700 original owners of 2008 model-year vehicles
conducted between October and December 2010.  Toyota Recalls  Toyota’s recalls of more than 10 million vehicles, most for
unintended acceleration, began in late 2009 and may not affect
results until later surveys. Seven Toyota models earned top
honors in their segments, including the  Lexus  RX and Toyota
4Runner sport-utility vehicles, Tacoma and Tundra trucks and
Prius hybrid.  Toyota dropped to its worst-ever ranking in J.D. Power’s
initial quality study last year, which measures problems in the
first 90 days of ownership and included some of Toyota’s
recalled vehicles.  Chrysler Group LLC’s Jeep, Ram, Chrysler and Dodge brands
were below average in the study. The Ram truck brand average 173
problems, while Chrysler, Jeep and Dodge each had more than 200.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Craig Trudell  in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at   korland@bloomberg.net . 