-- 
G-7 May Help Japan Weaken Yen After Currency Rises to Record, Analysts Say

-- B y   R o c k y   S w i f t
-- 
2011-03-17T05:56:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/g-7-may-help-japan-weaken-yen-after-currency-rises-to-record-analysts-say.html
The rapidity of the yen’s
appreciation will compel other nations to help  Japan  weaken the
currency from a postwar high that threatens a recovery from its
biggest earthquake on record, analysts said.  Citigroup Inc., Brown Brothers Harriman & Co., and Mizuho
Securities Co. are among companies saying that Japan may elicit
cooperation from major trading partners in reversing the yen’s
climb to 76.36 per dollar today, eclipsing the previous high of
79.75 set in April 1995. The risk of radiation leaks from a
crippled nuclear plant stoked prospects Japanese insurers and
investors will redeem overseas assets to pay for damages. The
yen’s gains accelerated as automatic orders were tripped,
strategists said.  Japan’s Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said finance
ministers and central bankers of the Group of Seven
industrialized nations will hold a meeting tomorrow to discuss
the aftermath of the March 11 earthquake that killed at least
5,178 people, with another 8,913 missing.  “Although there has been no hint of intervention yet, I
still believe the probability of it happening at some point
within the next 24 hours is extremely high,”  Greg Anderson , a
currency strategist at Citigroup in  New York , wrote in a note to
clients. “It appears almost certain that the G-7 will be in
with a coordinated approach.”  The Japanese currency retreated from its high earlier today
amid speculation policy makers will intervene to weaken it. The
yen typically strengthens in times of financial and economic
turmoil, as Japan’s trade surplus means the nation doesn’t have
to rely on overseas lenders. A stronger domestic exchange hurts
the overseas competitiveness of Japanese exporters.  ‘Joint Intervention’  Should G-7 nations agree that the yen’s moves are
excessively volatile and disorderly, “that may lead to joint
intervention by Japan, the U.S. and  Europe  to sell yen for
dollars and euros,”  Yasunari Ueno , chief market economist at
Mizuho Investors, a unit of Japan’s second-largest bank, wrote
in a report published today. Analysts at Nomura Holdings Inc.
and Barclays Bank Plc were also among those saying intervention
was likely.  The yen jumped 4.5 percent in 26 minutes as markets closed
in New York and re-opened in  Asia , according to a quote recap
available in Bloomberg. The currency was up 0.5 percent to 79.17
per dollar as of 2:54 p.m. in Tokyo from 79.59 yesterday in New
York.  “The violence of the move will raise eyebrows at the
BOJ,”  Win Thin , senior currency strategist at Brown Brothers
Harriman, wrote in a research note. “The sort of move seen
today is certainly disorderly and BOJ intervention would likely
be seen within G-10 as justified.”  Strengthening by the yen accelerated amid “very illiquid
conditions” after the New York close at 5 p.m. as stop-loss
orders overwhelmed bids for the dollar, Carl Forcheski, a
director on the corporate currency sales desk at Societe
Generale SA in New York, wrote in a note.  “I don’t know what triggered it, but once the dam broke,
the market was flooded and within minutes, it was trading below
78,” Forcheski said in the note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joji Mochida in  Tokyo  at 
 jmochida@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 