-- 
G-7 to Discuss Japan Tomorrow After Yen Climbs to Postwar High

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-03-17T10:43:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/g-7-to-meet-tomorrow-to-discuss-quake-aftermath-after-yen-rises-to-record.html
The yen strengthened to a post-
World War II high as Group of Seven officials prepare to meet to
discuss the threat to the world’s third-largest economy from
last week’s earthquake and a worsening nuclear crisis.  The yen rose as officials hold back for now from
intervening in  currency markets  to stem its advance, climbing
4.5 percent in 26 minutes as markets closed in  New York  and re-
opened in  Asia . The G-7 teleconference will begin at 7 a.m. 
Tokyo time and will encompass currencies, Finance Minister   Yoshihiko Noda  told reporters in Tokyo today. The yen’s climb 
today is driven by speculation and the government is monitoring 
its moves, Economy Minister Kaoru Yosano said.  The announcement of discussions prompted Japanese stocks to
pare losses and the yen to weaken on the prospect of coordinated
global action to prevent the disaster from crippling the
economy. The yen earlier strengthened to 76.36 to the dollar and
bond risk soared as workers raced to avert a meltdown at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant north of Tokyo.  “It’ll be very helpful if you had some sort of joint
comment about stabilizing the  exchange rate ” from the G-7, said  Richard Jerram , head of Asian economics at Macquarie Securities
Ltd. in Singapore. “Clearly the economy is in a very fragile
state and if you do have a lot of destabilizing exchange-rate
movements, it’s going to make things a lot worse.”  The yen traded at 78.73 per dollar as of 7:12 p.m. in
Tokyo. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 1.4 percent to close at
8,962.67.  Lagarde’s Plan  French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said yesterday
she wanted to hold G-7 talks on the financial response to
Japan’s earthquake, including possibly buying Japanese bonds.
The G-7 is made up of the U.S.,  Germany , France,  Canada , Italy,
the U.K. and  Japan .  “I will explain the impact of Japan’s earthquake on the
economy, developments in financial markets, and Japan’s
response” to the earthquake, Noda said.  Policy makers have so far focused on offering intraday cash
to banks, with the central bank limiting its additional monetary
stimulus three days ago to 5 trillion yen ($63 billion), an
amount about one-tenth the size of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s
quantitative easing. Sustained yen strengthening risks eroding
exporters’ earnings, making a case for officials to intervene,
some analysts said.  Should the G-7 agree that yen moves are too volatile,
“that may lead to joint intervention by Japan, the U.S. and  Europe  to sell yen for dollars and euros,”  Yasunari Ueno , chief
market economist Mizuho Securities Co. in  Tokyo , wrote in a
report published today.  ‘Nervous’ Markets  “Ignorance breeds fear, which breeds nervous markets,”
Citigroup Chief Economist Willem Buiter, a former  Bank of
England  policy maker, said in a Bloomberg Television interview
today in  London . “The market is a coward: it looks at the
worst-case scenario and doesn’t discount it sufficiently.”  Japan’s government said there’s no evidence that insurance
companies are repatriating assets from abroad. Officials said
expectations of such flows were behind the yen’s climb.  “The speculation was that Japanese life and casualty
insurers will repatriate dollar-denominated assets to secure
funds,” Yosano, the nation’s economic and fiscal policy chief,
told reporters in Tokyo today. “But they have ample cash,
deposits and other liquid assets,” he said, adding that the
Financial Services Agency and  Bank of Japan  have confirmed
insurers aren’t selling their dollar assets.  ‘Unprecedented’ Liquidity  Hisahito Suzuki, chairman of the country’s casualty
insurers association, said today that insurers don’t need to
repatriate overseas assets for payouts at the moment and he
doesn’t expect companies to be doing so going forward.  Meantime, the central bank pumped 5 trillion yen into money
markets today.  “The BOJ has done quite a lot by injecting unprecedented
amounts of liquidity into the system,”  Norman Chan , chief
executive of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, said in Sydney
today. “The BOJ has done what it can.”  Japan’s exporters said they can remain profitable as long
as the yen trades at 86.30 per dollar or weaker, compared with
the previous year’s breakeven point at 92.90, the Cabinet Office
said in an annual survey released on March 11.  Every one yen the currency appreciates against the dollar
erodes about 30 billion yen from Toyota Motor Co.’s earnings,
according to the company. Honda Motor Co., which produces over
70 percent of its vehicles outside Japan, loses 17 billion yen
for each one yen the currency strengthens against the dollar.  Export Disruption  Because exporters’ operations are already disrupted, yen
appreciation may have little immediate effect, lessening the
need for policy makers to act, said  Azusa Kato , an economist at
BNP Paribas SA in Tokyo.  “A stronger yen would actually help companies secure the
goods and supplies they need, especially at the disaster
regions, because it would make imports cheaper,” said Kato.
“Stopping the yen’s gains isn’t the government’s top priority
right now.”  Japan’s government hasn’t ordered the Bank of Japan to sell
yen in the market since Sept. 15, which was the first time Japan
intervened since 2004. That move followed a jump in the yen on
speculation that Prime Minister  Naoto Kan , who had won re-
election as head of the ruling party, would be less likely to
endorse yen sales than his top opponent.  G-7 Intervention  G-7 members haven’t entered the market together since
September 2000, when they sought to buoy the euro as it tumbled
in its second year of existence.  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said on March 13 that he was
prepared to unleash “massive” liquidity to secure stability, a
commitment followed up the next day with a record 15 trillion
yen in one-day cash, with injections diminishing since then.  The central bank in a March 14 policy meeting also decided
to double its asset-purchase program to 10 trillion yen,
including Japanese  government bonds , exchange-traded funds and
real estate investment trusts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  