-- 
General Mills Said to Be Close to Buying Yoplait Stake

-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   a n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 
2011-03-18T13:43:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/general-mills-said-to-be-near-deal-to-buy-pai-partners-50-yoplait-stake.html
  General Mills Inc. (GIS)  is near an
agreement to buy PAI Partners’ half of Yoplait in a deal that
values the yogurt maker at about 1.6 billion euros ($2.24
billion), said two people with knowledge of the sale process.  An announcement may come as soon as tomorrow, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the negotiations
aren’t public. Sodiaal, which founded Yoplait, owns the other
half of the yogurt maker and has said it doesn’t plan to sell
its shares.  General Mills, based in  Minneapolis , may seek to further
expand Yoplait outside the U.S., where it’s the top brand in a
market approaching $4 billion. Food companies are searching for
new sources of growth as demand has slowed in developed
countries, and as increasing commodities costs push them to
raise prices.  “The brand could benefit from more widespread
distribution, particularly in regions such as  China ,  India , and
Latin America,”  Dave Novosel , an analyst at Gimme Credit in  Chicago , said in a note to clients today.  “They will need to
borrow to fund the transaction, but the additional borrowing is
not a major concern.”  Yoplait has become the world’s second-largest yogurt brand,
partly through its U.S. distribution partnership with General
Mills, which dates back to 1978, according to corporate filings.
Sodiaal and PAI had said they would examine suitors’ plans to
further the Yoplait brand in areas where it currently has little
or no presence, such as China, India and Latin America.  Global Operations  General Mills is scheduled to report financial results next
week. Led by Chief Executive Officer Ken Powell, the maker of
the Cheerios cereal brand also has operations in  Europe ,  Asia 
and Latin America.  French newspaper Le Figaro reported the deal earlier today.
General Mills didn’t return a call seeking comment. An official
at PAI wasn’t immediately available for comment. Jacques
Caillaud, a spokesman for Sodiaal, declined to comment.  “The price is a bit higher than expected, but it settles
an ongoing question mark,” Jonathan Feeney, an analyst at
Janney Montgomery Scott, said in a note to clients today.
“Keeping the U.S. rights with no additional terms was the
optimal outcome, so it is fair to see this partially as a
payment to take some risk off the table.” The Philadelphia-
based analyst rates the shares “neutral.”  General Mills rose 8 cents to $36.13 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. They have risen 1.5 percent
this year.    Danone (BN) , the French maker of Activia, is the world’s largest
yogurt maker. Its chief financial officer, Pierre-Andre Terisse,
said last month that it may purchase smaller companies to expand
in medical nutrition and water.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in London at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in Washington at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  