-- 
GM Suspends Some Truck Output on Japan Parts Shortage

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-03-17T20:32:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/gm-suspends-some-truck-output-on-japan-parts-shortage.html
  General Motors Co. (GM) , the largest
U.S. automaker, will suspend production at its Shreveport
Assembly in  Louisiana  for the week of March 21 because of a
parts shortage resulting from the crisis in  Japan .  All other GM plants in  North America  will continue to run
normal operations, the Detroit-based automaker said today in a
statement on its website. GM has enough vehicles to meet
customer demand, and production at Shreveport will resume “as
soon as possible,” the company said.  GM is suspending production earlier than expected, said
Tracy Handler, a production analyst at researcher IHS
Automotive. Chrysler Group LLC said yesterday it could take four
to six weeks for Japan’s disaster to affect its supply chain.  “We didn’t expect for this ripple to hit quite this fast
for North American plants,” said Handler, who is based in
Northville,  Michigan .  GM fell 34 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $31.44 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading after earlier climbing
as much as 1.9 percent. The shares have dropped 4.7 percent from
their initial public offering in November.  The Shreveport facility has 923 employees and makes the
Chevrolet Colorado and GMC Canyon pickups, according to GM’s
website. Canyon sales in the U.S. last year fell 21 percent to
7,992 vehicles, and Colorado deliveries dropped 24 percent to
24,642. GM sold 2.22 million vehicles in the U.S. last year.  Redirecting Supply  GM may be suspending Shreveport production earlier than it
needs to in order to redirect parts supply to better-selling
vehicles, IHS’s Handler said in a telephone interview.  Deliveries of the Chevrolet Silverado pickup rose to
370,135 last year, more than 11 times the combined total of
Canyon and Colorado sales, according to Autodata Corp. in  Woodcliff Lake ,  New Jersey .  Kim Carpenter, a GM spokeswoman, declined to specify which
parts are in short supply. In response to questions about GM’s
production strategy, she referred to the statement, which said
the automaker will “supply the most critical operations” in
responding to the events in Japan.  Chrysler, which hasn’t had its production disrupted by last
week’s earthquake in Japan, is getting a daily report from the
region and there is a risk that production could be lost because
of parts not coming from Japan, Dan Knott, senior vice president
for purchasing, said yesterday in an interview at the
automaker’s headquarters in Auburn Hills, Michigan.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Craig Trudell  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at   korland@bloomberg.net . 