-- 
Goldman Sachs Board Member Scott to Leave After Standards Review

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   V i v e k   S h a n k a r
-- 
2011-03-17T22:32:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/goldman-sachs-says-former-wal-mart-chief-scott-to-leave-board-of-directors.html
  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said board
member H. Lee Scott, who helped review the bank’s business
practices when the firm was sued by U.S. regulators, will quit
after one year because of other commitments.  Scott, 62, a former  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  chief executive
officer, was elected to the board at the annual shareholder
meeting in May. He won’t seek re-election at this year’s
meeting, the firm said today in a statement. Goldman Sachs, the
fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, is seeking a replacement,
said a person familiar with the matter.  “Lee made an important contribution to our board and the
firm during a challenging period,”  Lloyd Blankfein , Goldman
Sachs’s chairman and CEO, said in the statement. “I am
particularly grateful for the enormous time and effort he
committed to the board’s efforts related to the business
standards committee.”  Goldman Sachs announced at last year’s annual meeting that
it would review business standards in the wake of a fraud
lawsuit filed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
The firm paid $550 million to settle the suit in July and in
January released a report with 39 recommendations for improving
its practices.  Scott was nominated to the board on March 19 last year, the
same day the firm said Rajat K. Gupta, who had joined the board
in 2006, wouldn’t stand for re-election. A month later, the Wall
Street Journal reported U.S. prosecutors were investigating
whether Gupta had passed confidential information about Goldman
Sachs to Galleon Group hedge-fund founder  Raj Rajaratnam .  Earlier this month, the SEC sued Gupta.  Gary Naftalis , an
attorney for Gupta, has called the SEC’s allegations “totally
baseless.”  In November, 2009, Scott became an operating partner and
investment committee member at  Solamere Capital , a Lexington,
Massachusetts-based private-equity firm whose managing partners
include Tagg Romney, a son of former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Vivek Shankar at   vshankar3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  