-- 
ISS Postpones Public Offering Amid Global Market Uncertainty

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-03-17T19:24:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/goldman-eqt-s-iss-delays-ipo-on-market-uncertainty-after-japanese-quake.html
ISS A/S, the world’s largest
cleaning-service provider, said it postponed its initial public
offering, citing “high levels of uncertainty and volatility”
in global markets.  The offering was scheduled for today, ISS said in a
statement. The Copenhagen-based company, owned by Goldman Sachs
Capital Partners and EQT Partners AB, yesterday cut the top end
of its IPO price range by about 19 percent as a global sell-off
in stocks after  Japan ’s earthquake hurt demand for new equity.  “The timetable has coincided with an extraordinary period
in global markets,” ISS said in the statement. “Given the
existing shareholders’ and the company’s desire to achieve a
successful IPO with an orderly aftermarket, it has been decided
to postpone the IPO.”  The IPO would have been Denmark’s biggest in more than 16
years. ISS was seeking to sell as many as 133 million new shares
to raise gross proceeds of about 13.3 billion kroner ($2.5
billion), according to a statement earlier this month. The
process of taking orders for the stock started March 8, ISS
said.  The offering was oversubscribed within the price range, the
company said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Nordea
Bank AB (NDA)  have been managing the sale.  Slumping stock markets have prompted companies to postpone
offerings in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Asia .  Postponed Offerings    Lagardere SCA (MMB) , France’s largest publisher, yesterday
delayed an initial share sale of its stake in Canal Plus France.
Global Market Group Ltd., the Guangzhou, China-based company
that connects domestic businesses with international customers,
postponed a $143 million U.S. IPO scheduled for today. Japanese
drugmaker RaQualia Pharma Inc. said March 15 it would put off an
IPO.  Stocks plunged this week after Japan’s March 11 earthquake,
which followed weeks of political unrest in some Middle East and
northern Africa nations. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
advanced as much as 1.8 percent today after declining 3.6
percent over the past three days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 