-- 
Groupon Said to Discuss IPO Valuation of Up to $25 Billion

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-03-17T17:24:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/groupon-is-said-to-discuss-ipo-valuation-of-up-to-25-billion.html
Groupon Inc.  has held talks with
banks about an initial public offering that would value the
online-coupon company at as much as $25 billion, according to
two people with knowledge of the discussions.  The two-year-old startup’s IPO may happen this year and is
unlikely to assign Groupon a valuation of less than $15 billion,
the people told Bloomberg Businessweek. They asked not to be
identified because the talks were private.  Groupon, the top provider of online daily discounts, has
pushed into hundreds of new cities and doubled its subscriber
base over the past three months. That’s helped its valuation
soar since December, when it turned down a bid from  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
for $6 billion. The company now has 70 million users and reaches
more than 500 markets, up from 300 when Google made its offer.  Closely held consumer Internet companies like Groupon are
“being valued as though they are going to be the next Google or
EBay or Amazon,” said Claire Enders, the founder of  London 
media-consulting company Enders Analysis. “But their business
models may reach their limits a lot more quickly, or not work in
as many markets.”  Groupon was valued at about $1.3 billion last April, when
it raised $135 million from investors, including Digital Sky
Technologies. It contemplated more funding at a $3 billion
valuation in November, shortly before Google’s offer. An
investment of $950 million, completed in January, pegged
Groupon’s worth at $4.75 billion.  Clothes, Nail Salons    Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  have discussed
handling an IPO for Groupon, a person familiar with the talks
said in January. Those meetings focused on a $15 billion
valuation for a future IPO, the person said.  A $25 billion valuation would put Groupon’s worth above
Google’s when that company went public in 2004. Google, the
world’s biggest Internet-search provider, had a valuation of $23
billion at the time of its IPO in August 2004.  Julie Mossler, a spokeswoman for Groupon, declined to
comment.  Groupon, based in  Chicago , offers daily discounts of as
much as 90 percent from local businesses, such as restaurants,
nail salons and clothing stores. It then keeps a portion of the
revenue.  While Groupon leads the daily-deal market, it faces
mounting competition from rivals such as LivingSocial. That
company is close to raising as much as $400 million in funding
that would value it at more than $2 billion, two people with
knowledge of the talks said this week.  Even so, Groupon may have an edge as the biggest company in
the industry, said  Alex DeGroote , a media and technology analyst
at  Panmure Gordon & Co.  in London.  The daily deals business “is hot as anything, and no one
knows where it’s going to tap out,” DeGroote said. “The
experience of Internet companies shows that margins and
profitability tend to accrue very substantially to the market
leader.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  