-- 
Groupon Targets $176 Million of Sales During Its First Year in South Korea

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-03-17T23:43:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/groupon-targets-176-million-of-sales-during-first-year-in-south-korea.html
Groupon Inc., owner of the biggest
 coupon website , said it’s targeting sales of 200 billion won
($176 million) in  South Korea  this year as it expands globally.  Groupon also aims to catch up with its biggest local
competitor in attracting traffic to its Korean website in the
next three to six months, Hwang Hee Seung, Groupon Korea’s chief
executive officer, said in an interview in Seoul yesterday.  The  online-coupon company , which offers discount vouchers
for goods and services ranging from restaurant meals to spa
treatments, has been expanding overseas as Chief Executive
Officer  Andrew Mason  weighs a potential initial public offering
this year. The Chicago-based company boosted its subscriber base
in the past year to more than 60 million worldwide. A year ago,
it had 2 million users, and its only market was the U.S.  Groupon opened its Korean site on March 14, putting it in
competition with local companies such as  TicketMonster Inc. ,
which operates the country’s largest daily deal website.  The number of visitors to TicketMonster’s site almost
quadrupled to about 3.8 million in February from September,
while about 400 daily deal sites have sprung up in South Korea
over the past year, according to Rankey.com, a research company
that tracks the nation’s e-commerce sites.  Facebook  Daily-deal services, which often target local businesses,
will generate $3.93 billion by 2015, up from $873 million last
year, according to BIA/Kelsey, a Chantilly, Virginia-based
consulting firm.  Facebook Inc. plans to test a Groupon-like service, seeking
to use its 500 million-plus members to capitalize on the surging
online-deal market. The service will start in  San Francisco ,  San
Diego ,  Dallas , Atlanta, and Austin,  Texas , the company said this
month in a statement.  Facebook’s entry into the “market Groupon created” may
help the overall industry grow further and will drive Groupon to
improve its services, Matt Zafirovski, vice president at Groupon
International, said yesterday.  “It’s exciting more people join this ever-growing, ever-
evolving market,” he said. “It definitely pushes us to be good.
Competition is healthy.”  Groupon will focus on offering its core services in its new
markets such as South Korea before introducing other offerings,
Zafirovski said.  The company is talking with cash-register makers about
adding features to make it easier for merchants and consumers to
use its coupons, President Rob Solomon said this month.  “We want to get the basics right,” Zafirovski said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  