-- 
Microsoft Leads on Privacy With New Browser: Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-03-17T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/microsoft-leads-on-privacy-with-newest-browser-tech-by-rich-jaroslovsky.html
In the world of Web browsers,
there’s “privacy,” and then there’s “security,” and they
aren’t quite the same thing.  This week,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  released a new version of
Internet Explorer, and while we wait to hear from the security
experts how it fares against hackers, it’s already taken a big
step forward on the privacy front.  Internet Explorer 9, which is available as a  free download 
from Microsoft, replaces IE’s previous, largely ineffectual
scheme for preventing snoopy content providers from
surreptitiously tracking your online movements. The goal may be
benign -- gathering usage data for analytic purposes, for
instance -- but such data can also generate a profile of you,
based on your behavior, which can be used for ad-targeting or
other more nefarious purposes.  The new version of Microsoft’s browser offers controls
that, while far from perfect, make it easier to choose what
information about your behavior you’re willing to share with
online content providers.  While IE remains one of the most widely used pieces of
software on the planet, it doesn’t wield the clout it once did.
For years now, new generations of competing browsers -- Google’s
Chrome, Apple’s Safari, Mozilla’s Firefox and Opera Software’s
Opera, to name four -- have out-innovated and out-performed it.  With IE9, which is all-around faster, slicker and more
enjoyable than its predecessor, Microsoft finally deserves to be
front-of-mind again for anyone lucky enough to be able to run
it.  Not for Everyone  Therein lies an important point: Not every Web surfer -- in
fact, not even every Microsoft-using Web surfer -- will be
capable of running the new software. In a bold move, the company
has made IE9 compatible only with Windows 7, the current version
of its desktop operating system, and with its immediate
predecessor, Vista. About half of all Windows users, who are
still on the nine-year-old XP operating system, are out of luck.  Microsoft says that step was made necessary by the new
features of IE9 that integrate it more deeply with the operating
system than previous versions, or, in earlier years, antitrust
regulators would allow.  Among other things, IE9 blurs the line between programs
running on your computer’s hard drive and content from the Web.
Website icons can now be permanently affixed to Windows’s task
bar, where they both look and, if the site developer supports
it, act much like applications located on your PC.  Jump Lists  Pin the Yahoo! icon to your task bar, for instance, and a
right-button mouse click opens a menu called a jump list that
lets you go directly to the site’s widely used mail, finance and
sports services.  The New York Times  menu gives you links to its
top 10 headlines, plus shortcuts to its home page and search,
video and most-popular functions.  The new browser is also much speedier. Its Windows-only
orientation means Microsoft didn’t have to make compromises to
assure it would run the same on other operating systems; by
contrast, Chrome, Safari, Firefox and Opera all have versions
that run on Macs as well as PCs, and all except Safari have
versions for the open-source Linux operating system too.  The most important part of Microsoft’s Windows-only
approach is that IE can harness your PC’s hardware to give
itself a significant speed boost for performing certain kinds of
functions -- running  animated graphics , for instance.  IE9’s new privacy features, meanwhile, represent an upping
of the ante for other browser developers. The previous version
of Explorer had a tool called “InPrivate Filtering” that
proved to be deeply flawed. Among other things, it was disabled
by default; to trigger it, users had to deliberately switch it
on, and every time they closed their browser, the setting would
revert to the off position.  More Powerful  While IE9 still requires the user to choose tracking
protection, this time it’s easier to do, more powerful and
persists across browsing sessions.  To enable the feature, you’ll click on the settings icon on
IE9’s  newly streamlined interface , and choose the “Safety”
option from the pull-down menu. The software uses two methods
for blocking tracking. One instructs your browser to tell
content providers that you don’t wish to be tracked. While
reputable services should comply, there’s no protection against
the unscrupulous ones.  The second method requires a little more work on your part,
hopefully just once, by allowing you to easily subscribe to
online “tracking protection lists.” These lists are maintained
and updated by online-privacy organizations such as  TRUSTe  and
 PrivacyChoice , which monitor content providers and their
technologies, and are supposed to actually block their efforts.  Cat and Mouse  The big question is how well the new tools work, or whether
they’ll trigger cat-and-mouse moves by less-than-reputable sites
to circumvent them. Indeed, one risk with Microsoft’s new
features is that they’ll result in a false sense of security.  Still, they represent a welcome step to put privacy issues
front and center -- and not just for Microsoft. The next version
of Firefox will include “do not track” functionality, for
instance, while Google recently made an  anti-tracking add-on 
available for its new Chrome 10 browser.  With President Barack Obama’s administration and Congress
beginning to debate the need for online-privacy legislation,
Microsoft’s efforts with IE9 may be just the opening salvo in a
feature war among all the browser makers to make Web surfing
safer and more private. We can only hope.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 