-- 
Microsoft’s Vietnam Partner FPT Aims to Combine Units, Focus on Software

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-17T07:52:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/microsoft-s-vietnam-partner-fpt-aims-to-consolidate-subsidiaries.html
  FPT Corp. (FPT) , Vietnam’s biggest
publicly traded telecommunications and software company, said it
plans to combine its technology units and focus on restoring the
annual earnings growth rate to more than 30 percent.  FPT will consolidate five subsidiaries -- FPT Information
System, FPT Telecom Corp., FPT Software, FPT Online and FPT
Trading Group -- with itself, Truong Dinh Anh, who will take
over as chief executive officer of Hanoi-based FPT on March 25,
said in a phone interview today. The parent may either buy out
the units’ minority shareholders or issue its own shares and
swap them as part of the transaction, Anh said.  The Vietnamese technology company, which in May announced a
cloud-computing alliance with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , is seeking to
renew its focus on telecommunications and Internet services and
software development after the pace of profit growth fell below
20 percent in the last three years, Anh said.  “We have reoriented our businesses to make it a
technology, information and communications corporation instead
of an economic group,” Anh said. “We are restructuring our
holdings in subsidiaries to focus on core businesses in order to
enhance growth.”  FPT fell 1 percent to 52,000 dong at the 11 a.m. close of
trading in  Ho Chi Minh City . The stock has declined 19 percent
this year, while the benchmark VN Index has lost 5 percent.  Growth Pace  In 2010, pretax profit increased 19 percent to 2 trillion
dong ($96 million), FPT said in a statement on its  website .
Revenue except internal sales of goods and services rose 9.5
percent to 20.5 trillion dong.  The slowing pace of profit growth “didn’t satisfy board
members and shareholders,” Anh said.  FPT had created many joint stock companies as part of a
business development model aimed at tapping opportunities in
multiple sectors, Anh said.  “In recent years, especially in the crisis period, we’ve
seen that the main strength of FPT is still in technology and
telecommunications,” he said. “We want to focus all efforts on
our strong points.”  The company has a “commitment” to boost revenue by up to
25-fold by 2020, CEO Nguyen Thanh Nam said in May. FPT expects
both revenue and pretax profit to increase 20 percent this year
to 24.5 trillion dong and 2.42 trillion dong respectively, it
said.  The Southeast Asian nation’s economy expanded 6.8 percent
last year, the fastest pace since 2007.  Vietnam  is targeting an
average annual growth rate of as much as 8.5 percent between
2011 and 2015, and the government aims to derive 22 percent of
gross domestic product from the technology industry by 2020.  FPT, whose customers include Microsoft, Panasonic Corp. and
Hitachi Ltd., will also set up a wholly owned unit to hold and
manage its investments in  Tien Phong Commercial Bank ,  FPT
Securities Joint-Stock Co. , FPT Capital and FPT Land, Anh said.  The company will seek shareholders’ opinions on the
consolidation plan at a meeting in April, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bloomberg News in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  