-- 
MIDEAST DAYBOOK: Egypt, Tunisia Ratings Lowered; Bahrain Risk

-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 
2011-03-17T04:04:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/mideast-daybook-egypt-tunisia-ratings-lowered-bahrain-risk.html
Egypt, the North African nation
whose president was ousted after popular protests last month,
had its bond ratings cut one level at Moody’s Investors Service
on political instability and the impact on the economy.    Tunisia ’s credit rating was cut one notch to BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s , which said the country’s political turmoil
this year has hurt its economic prospects.  Moody’s Investors Service sees “a substantial risk that the
medium-term credit fundamentals of Bahrain will be impaired by
the present crisis,” the agency said.  CONFERENCES:
* Qatar Alternative Energy Investors Summit, Doha.  WHAT TO WATCH:
* About 1,000 people in  Saudi Arabia ’s eastern city of al-Qatif
  defied a ban on demonstrations and protested peacefully to
  demand the country’s troops end their incursion into Bahrain.
*  Fitch Ratings  downgraded Bahrain’s sovereign wealth fund
  Mumtalakat Holding Co.’s long-term issuer default rating and
  senior unsecured rating by two levels to BBB, the second-
  lowest investment grade.
*  Egypt  plans to raise 6 billion Egyptian pounds through sales
  of treasury bills in Cairo.
* Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s warplanes bombed the Benghazi
  airport, rebels said, bringing the war to the opposition
  capital for the first time since loyalist forces were driven
  out of the city last month.
* HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard Chartered Plc, two British
  banks, shut their branches in Bahrain as clashes between
  security forces and anti-government protesters intensified.
* Qatar Holding LLC is looking at several Spanish savings banks
  as it seeks investment opportunities, Chief Executive Officer
  Ahmad Al-Sayed said in  Madrid .
*  China ’s top economic planner has approved China Petroleum &
  Chemical Corp. and Kuwait Petroleum Corp.’s $9 billion
  refinery development in the southern province of Guangdong.
* Egyptian natural-gas flows to Israel and Jordan resumed almost
  six weeks after an explosion at an energy facility in the
  Sinai halted shipments.
* Bombs and tear gas are threatening to smother the “Arab
  Spring” that toppled the leaders of Egypt and Tunisia and
  promised to spread democracy in the Middle East.
* Syrian authorities arrested as many as 35 people after 150
  protesters demonstrated outside the Interior Ministry in
  Damascus, opponents of President Bashar al-Assad’s regime and
  human-rights activists said.
* Wataniya Airways of Kuwait said it will cease all operations
  with the return of its scheduled flight to Kuwait last night.  MARKETS:
*  Dow Jones Industrial Average  dropped 2 percent.
* Crude oil futures for April delivery lost 0.1 percent to
  $97.86 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York
  Mercantile Exchange at 8 a.m. in Dubai.
* Gold for April delivery fell 0.2 percent to $1,393.1 an ounce.
* Kuwait Stock Exchange Index declined 1.2 percent,  QE Index (DSM) 
  fell 0.8 percent, Muscat Securities Market dropped 0.7
  percent and  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  declined 0.6 percent. Dubai
  Financial Market General Index gained 0.5 percent.
* Tunis Stock Exchange’s Tunidex retreated 0.3 percent, while
  the Casablanca Stock Exchange Index lost 0.2 percent.
* Saudi Arabia’s market is closed for the weekend.  EQUITY MOVERS:
*  Gulf General Investment Co. (GGICO)   had its ratings cut one
  level to B2, the fifth highest non-investment grade, at
  Moody’s Investors Service.
*  Sharjah Islamic Bank (NBS)  , a United Arab Emirates lender,
  hired HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard Chartered Plc for a
  planned sales of $500 million of Islamic bonds.
*  Air Arabia (AIRARABI)   was cut to “neutral” from “buy” at
  EFG-Hermes with a price estimate of 86 fils a share.
* Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT UH), the biggest
  telephone company in the United Arab Emirates, plans to spend
  $15 billion in five years to expand infrastructure, Chief
  Operating Officer Ahmad Abdulkarim Julfar said in  Abu Dhabi .
*  Qatar International Islamic Bank (QIIK)   agreed to buy out
  the part of  Islamic Bank of Britain Plc (IBB)  it doesn’t already own
  for about 4.8 million pounds ($7.7 million) as it tries to
  create an international Shariah-compliant lender.
* Asec Co. for Mining (ASCM EY), a unit of Egyptian private
  equity firm Citadel Capital, said its annual profit dropped 69
  percent.
* Banque Centrale Populaire (BCM MC), the third-largest publicly
  traded lender in  Morocco , said it plans to double its capital
  by issuing free shares.
* Paints & Chemical Industries Co. (PNCI EY), an Egyptian paint
  producer, said it suspended operations in  Libya  starting Feb.
  20 because of unrest in the North African country.
*  Credit Agricole Egypt SAE (CIEB)   was cut to “underweight”
  from “strong buy” at investment bank CI Capital because of
  political and economic instability in Egypt.  FINANCIAL RESULTS AND MEETINGS:
* Ezdan Real Estate Co. (ERES QD) financial results.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  