-- 
Lilly Claim Over Hospira’s Gemzar Copy to Be Reviewed By ITC

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-03-17T19:55:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/lilly-claim-over-hospira-s-gemzar-copy-to-be-reviewed-by-itc-1-.html
  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s patent-
infringement claim over  Hospira Inc. (HSP) ’s generic version of the
cancer treatment Gemzar will be investigated by a U.S. trade
agency with the power to block imports of the copycat drug.  The U.S. International Trade Commission in Washington  said 
today it will probe the complaint Lilly filed Jan. 20.
Indianapolis-based Lilly claims Hospira’s gemcitabine, Gemzar’s
active ingredient, infringes a patent expiring in February 2014.  Global sales of Gemzar, used to treat lung, breast,
pancreatic and ovarian cancer, dropped 22 percent to $243.6
million in the fourth quarter, Lilly reported Jan. 27.  Lake
Forest , Illinois-based Hospira began selling gemcitabine in
November after Lilly lost an appeals court ruling that said a
separate patent expiring in May 2013 was invalid.  The patented method is “the most commercially viable
process available for manufacturing gemcitabine” and “involves
less steps, higher yields and lower costs,” Lilly said in its
complaint.  Hospira sued Lilly in September, seeking a court ruling
that its process wouldn’t infringe the patent. That case is
pending in federal court in  Chicago .  “We continue to believe in the strength of our legal
position with respect to our gemcitabine product and we will
vigorously defend against the complaint,” said Daniel Rosenberg, a Hospira spokesman.  The Lilly ITC complaint also names Hospira suppliers
Jiangsu Hansoh Pharmaceutical Co. of  China , Intas
Pharmaceuticals Ltd. of India and ChemWerth Inc. of Woodbridge,
Connecticut. According to Lilly, Hansoh makes the active
ingredient, ships it to India where it’s formulated into the
drug before being sent to ChemWerth for sale by Hospira.  The case is In the Matter of Gemcitabine and Products
Containing Same, 337-788, U.S. International Trade Commission
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  