-- 
Time for Tough Call on Nuclear Power Plants: Brendan Greeley

-- B y   B r e n d a n   G r e e l e y
-- 
2011-03-17T06:44:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/time-for-tough-calls-on-nuclear-power-plants-brendan-greeley.html
A German group frequently meets in
front of nuclear plants wearing T-shirts that read
“aussteiger,” or dropout. On March 12 they had planned a
protest in front of Neckarwestheim 1 and 2, reactors that squat
together on the Neckar River near  Germany ’s border with France.
Germany gets more than a quarter of its power from nuclear
reactors, but the group was not attempting to improve safety
features or tighten regulatory control; they want Germany to
drop out of nuclear power altogether.  They may get their wish. As news of explosions at Japan’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant reached Germany, the rally swelled to
tens of thousands, and protesters ran a human chain from
Neckarwestheim 30 miles south to Stuttgart, the capital of
Baden-Württemberg. Two days later, mindful of looming elections
in the region, Germany’s conservative chancellor,  Angela Merkel ,
agreed to power down five of the country’s oldest reactors --
including Neckarwestheim 1 -- pending a national safety review.
Previously, Merkel had reversed her predecessor’s plan to end
the country’s nuclear program by 2022. A lot has changed since
March 11, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its March 21 issue.  It’s hard to disagree with a nuclear safety review.  Switzerland , China and the U.K. have announced them, as has the
Obama administration. Representative Ed Markey, a Massachusetts
Democrat, wants the U.S. to go further and suspend permits for
any reactor in seismic areas. These steps all seem sensible and
may prove smart politics. They also fail to address the problem.  Public Debate  The U.S. does not want for safety assessments of nuclear
power; what it lacks is an honest public debate about it. Anyone
who would take reactors off line has to explain what carbon-free
alternative would replace them. Anyone who would keep them has
to explain why they’re not being replaced over time by newer
plants with more safety features and, more importantly, has to
admit that there is no such thing as a zero-risk nuclear plant.
As tempting as it is to poke fun at the German Left, the U.S.
suffers from a different strain of the same denial: The Germans,
at least, have a plan, even though it’s unrealistic. We’ve
ignored the problem altogether.  “People in democratic societies,” says Bill Kinsella,
“don’t know how to talk about a phenomenon as complex as
nuclear energy.” An associate professor at  North Carolina State
University , Kinsella has spent his career studying how societies
communicate about nuclear power. Nuclear reactors, he says, seem
too potent and mysterious for an ordinary person to understand,
so citizens tend to respond in two ways -- they either reject
nuclear power out of hand (Germany’s  Green Party ) or defer to
expert opinion (the U.S., at least for now).  Reactor Risk Modeling  Experts and safety reviews can inform our decisions, but
they can’t make them for us. David Okrent, who advised the  U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission  on reactor safety for 20 years,
points out that reactors are designed for only a set of defined
events. “The early nuclear reactors weren’t designed for
tornadoes,” he says, “until one came along in  Arkansas , and
then we thought, ‘We gotta design for tornadoes.’ It’s not easy
to be all-knowing.”  Reactor risk modeling, like financial risk modeling, he
says, stops short of accounting for truly rare events. While
working for the NRC, Okrent spoke to seismologists, whose
opinions only diverged on low-probability events. “It’s hard to
quantify a rare event. When you get to rare events, the design
is usually up-to-but-not-including.” This is where the experts
begin to arrive at irreconcilable differences of opinion. It is
up to us, the consumers of energy, to reconcile them.  New Madrid Fault  If President Obama’s safety committee were to heed
Representative Markey’s advice, it would have to tell Arkansas
to power down its Russellville Nuclear 1 plant, which lies
180 miles from the New Madrid Fault line and supplies 30 percent
of the state’s power. We don’t need a safety review to tell us
this; we need to decide whether we’re willing to accept the risk
of a New Madrid earthquake. If we aren’t, we need to decide what
will replace Russellville Nuclear 1. Will it be a newer reactor,
farther away? A coal-fired plant?  For almost 30 years, the U.S. has been able to put off
answering these kinds of questions. The years after the partial
core meltdown at the Three Mile Island Nuclear Generating
Station in 1979 saw a convenient detente between market forces
and anti-nuclear activists. New plant orders slowed, then
stopped. Since then, however, a new generation of reactors has
begun to come on line overseas, reflecting the lessons of Three
Mile Island and Chernobyl. These newer reactors feature
“passive” safety systems that protect the reactor without
human intervention, reducing the risk of operator error. One of
them, the EPR, under construction in France, Finland and  China ,
is designed to withstand the impact of a jetliner.  Risks  This is not to say the new plants are without risks --
risks we haven’t yet grasped are waiting for us to stumble upon.
But in assuming that all reactors, in all places, carry the same
risk, we’ve indulged in a spurious calculation; we’ve decided
that fewer reactors means less risk. Germany made a more
conscious decision to avoid new plants. Its Green Party made
opposition to nuclear power an electoral issue; once in power in
the late 1990s it made good on it. But both countries are now
stuck with the same problem. Germany and the U.S. get 21 and
29 percent of their power, respectively, from nuclear plants.
They haven’t broken ground on a new one in decades. A little
more risk creeps in with every new year of denial.  Michael A. Levi, a senior fellow at the  Council on Foreign
Relations , believes that four factors can explain the way a
country looks at nuclear power: resources, technical competence,
the role of public opinion in policy making, and the relative
power of green parties.  Oil Shock  The first spike in reactor builds came after the oil shock
of 1973, and  France , in particular, embraced reactors as a
defense against oil boycotts. But that country’s love of nuclear
power is failing to live up to its reputation. In January, a
survey found 46 percent of the French saw “mainly drawbacks”
to nuclear power, a number that’s nearly doubled since 1994.
“It’s part of the myth that French people are fanatics about
nuclear power,” says Mycle Schneider. “It’s just wrong.”
Schneider, an independent nuclear industry consultant near Paris,
sees public opinion beginning to diverge from France’s
technocratic elite. On nuclear power, she says, “you have
political party consensus, not social consensus.”  China, unburdened by a green party or the need for social
consensus, has vast nuclear ambitions, with 28 plants under
construction, almost half of the world’s current builds.
“China’s building a bunch of different designs, trying them all
out,” says Malcolm Keay, senior research fellow at the Oxford
Institute of Energy Studies. China has high safety standards, he
says, but their waste standards are “different.”    Climate Change   China temporarily stopped approving new nuclear projects
“until safety and improved long-term development plans are
cleared,” the State Council said March 16. In the March 15
edition of the state-run China Daily newspaper, Xu Mi at the
China Institute of Atomic Energy wrote that the country’s
younger nuclear plant fleet is safer than  Japan ’s, which mostly
came on line in the 1970s.  These distinctions matter. Even if, for the sake of
argument, we ignore the threat of climate change, it’s still
hard to imagine a future in the U.S. without nuclear power. That
we halted production of plants a quarter-century ago was an
accident, but it’s become an excuse, a way for our democracy to
avoid complicated decisions. It’s no longer enough to be for or
against nuclear power. We have to be for or against BWRs and
PWRs, the AP1000 and the EPR. (These are different technologies
and brands of reactors; voters will need to learn to tell them
apart.) And we will need to look squarely at the truth that
there is no such thing as a zero-risk reactor, decide how safe
is safe enough and, when we do, we will have to build some
plants. Events of the past year -- in the Gulf, in the mines of  West Virginia  and now on the coast of Japan -- have again taught
us that there is no energy without risk. At the very least, as
the four reactors in Fukushima smolder, they should compel us to
make some tough calls.  To contact the writer of this column:
Brendan Greeley in Washington at 
 bgreeley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Brad Wieners in New York at 
 bwieners@bloomberg.net  