-- 
India Raises Interest Rates for Eighth Time in a Year to Reduce Inflation

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-03-17T08:15:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/india-raises-interest-rates-for-eighth-time-in-a-year-to-reduce-inflation.html
  India ’s central bank increased  interest rates  for the eighth time in a year after raising its
inflation forecast twice in three months. Stocks and bonds fell.  The  Reserve Bank of India  raised the repurchase rate to
6.75 percent from 6.5 percent, according to an e-mailed
statement today. All 26 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
had predicted the decision. It boosted the reverse repurchase
rate to 5.75 percent from 5.5 percent.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao extended the steepest rate
increases among  Asia ’s major economies after the government last
month unveiled plans to lower taxes and boost spending. The
Reserve Bank also has to contend with the impact of higher oil
prices on inflation, which cuts purchasing power in a nation
where the  World Bank  says more than three-quarters of the people
live on less than $2 a day.  “The RBI needs to tighten more to bring inflation under
control,” said Devika Mehndiratta, a Singapore-based economist
at Credit Suisse Group AG. “Price pressures are building up
quite sharply.” Mehndiratta expects a half-point increase in
rates by September.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index has slid about
11 percent this year, the most in Asia after Japan, where stocks
have plunged after last week’s strongest earthquake on record
triggered a tsunami and nuclear crisis.  The index fell 0.8 percent at 1:10 p.m. in Mumbai. India’s
11-year bond yields rose one basis point to 8.09 percent, while
the rupee weakened 0.2 percent to 45.19 per dollar.  Inflation Woes  India’s key wholesale-price inflation quickened to 8.31
percent in February, led by manufactured product costs. The  Reserve Bank  today raised its March-end inflation forecast to 8
percent from 7 percent, according to the statement.  “The underlying inflationary pressures have accentuated,
even as risks to growth are emerging,” the central bank said in
the statement. “As domestic fuel prices are yet to adjust fully
to global prices, risks to inflation remain clearly on the
upside, reinforced by the persistence of demand-side
pressures.”  The benchmark inflation rate in India is the highest after  Russia  among the so-called BRIC nations including  Brazil  and
China. It is more than China’s 4.9 percent and Brazil’s 6.01
percent and compares with 9.5 percent in Russia.  Subbarao’s eight rate increases in the past year compare
with three in  China  and four in  South Korea .  Indonesia  lifted
its  reference rate  last month for the first time this year after
opting not to join counterparts in boosting rates in 2010.  Food Prices  India’s central bank on Jan. 25 estimated inflation would
be 7 percent by the end of March as winter harvests curb food-
price increases. Food inflation was 9.4 percent in the week
ended March 5, the slowest in three months.  Manufacturing inflation accelerated to 4.9 percent in
February from 3.8 percent in January, government data showed
this week. The cost of manufactured products accounted for 36
percent of the Indian inflation rate in February compared with
27.5 percent in the previous month, signaling growing demand.  “The concern is the change in the drivers of inflation
from food to manufacturing, suggesting inflation is becoming
more generalized,” Jay Shankar, Mumbai-based chief economist at
Religare Capital Markets Ltd., said before the decision. “That
will require more aggressive tightening.”  Car sales in India by companies including  Maruti Suzuki
India Ltd. (MSIL) , the nation’s biggest carmaker, and Toyota Motor
Corp. surged to a record in February as consumers spent more.  Consumer Demand  General Motors Co.’s India unit, which had raised prices by
as much as 2 percent in January, may boost them again by the end
of this month,  Karl Slym , head of the Detroit-based company’s
local unit, said in an interview with Bloomberg News on March 4.  India’s $1.3 trillion economy may expand by as much as 9.25
percent in the fiscal year starting April 1, the fastest pace
since 2008, the  finance ministry  forecast last month.  Demand may strengthen after Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee’s budget for the next fiscal year proposed increasing
spending by 13.4 percent to 12.6 trillion rupees ($278.4
billion). It also includes plans to exempt incomes below 180,000
rupees from tax, higher than the previous threshold of 160,000
rupees.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s coalition is aiming to put
more money in the hands of voters to help them cope with rising
prices and shore up support for five state elections this year.  Hopes ‘Dashed’  “Hopes of any moderation have been dashed month after
month as sources of elevated inflation have either proved
stubborn or have been replaced by fresh pressure,” Samiran Chakraborty, Mumbai-based economist at Standard Chartered Plc,
said before the decision. “The recent spike in global crude
prices is the latest addition.”  Crude oil climbed to a 29-month high settlement price of
$105.44 a barrel in  New York  on March 7 as fighting between
Libyan rebels and forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  escalated,
shutting ports and turning away tankers.  It has dropped 2.4 percent to $98.77 since the March 11
earthquake in  Japan  on speculation the natural disaster will cut
demand in the world’s third-largest crude user.  “Oil prices continue to pose huge headwinds for inflation
management,” Namrata Padhye, a Mumbai-based economist at IDBI
Gilts Ltd., said before the statement. “Prices have softened a
bit due to the Japan quake, but they are still hovering around
$100 a barrel, which is a real cause for concern.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net 
NI INDIA
NI ASIA
NI ASIAX
NI ECO
NI EM
NI BON
NI INB
NI FX
NI FRX
NI CEN
NI RBI
NI INDECO
NI INF
NI IDS
NI MMK
NI BBEXCLUDE
NI BRIC
NI GOV
NI POL 