-- 
Indicted Ex-Glaxo Lawyer Says Prosecutors Misled Grand Jury on Obstruction

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-17T21:43:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/indicted-ex-glaxo-lawyer-says-prosecutors-misled-grand-jury-on-her-defense.html
A former  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) 
lawyer, charged with obstructing a regulatory probe of the
company, said U.S. prosecutors misled the grand jury that
indicted her on the key element of her defense.  The lawyer, Lauren Stevens, argued that prosecutors
improperly told grand jurors that a defense of relying on advice
of counsel “was not relevant” to their decision whether to
indict, according to a filing by her attorneys. Stevens asked
U.S. District Judge Roger Titus to dismiss the case at a hearing
today in Greenbelt, Maryland.  Stevens, indicted in November on charges she obstructed a
probe into whether London-based Glaxo marketed the antideprssant
Wellbutrin for unapproved uses, has based her defense on the
claim she took advice from the Atlanta law firm of King &
Spalding in responding to a 2002 Food and Drug Administration
inquiry, her attorney Reid Weingarten said.  “We have been troubled by the zeal and overzealousness of
the effort to remove from this case the advice of counsel
defense,” Weingarten said today in court. “From the time the
FDA sent the letter of inquiry to GSK, GSK retained the services
of King & Spalding and they worked hand in hand with King &
Spalding to respond.”  Grand Juror’s Question  Weingarten said the deceit occurred in the government’s
response to a question from a grand juror who asked whether it
was relevant that Stevens may have been getting direction on how
to respond to the FDA from someone else.  The government “was not required to present the advice of
counsel defense to the grand jury,” Patrick Jasperse, a trial
attorney in the  Justice Department ’s Office of Consumer
Litigation, said in court. He added that the government “could
have been more articulate and complete” when answering the
grand juror’s question.  “What happened in this case is not misconduct,” Jasperse
said. “It was not the sort of grand jury abuse that warrants
dismissal of the indictment.”  Jasperse said if the judge decides to dismiss the
indictment, the government should be allowed to seek another
against Stevens.  Titus did not rule on the request. He did ask the
prosecutors whether they would be able to secure a new
indictment against Stevens by April if he rules against them.  Stevens is scheduled to go to trial on April 5. Weingarten
said she will ask for a bench trial.  Les Zuke, a spokesman for King & Spalding, didn’t respond
to messages left on his office and mobile phones. Mary Anne Rhyne, a spokeswoman for Glaxo, declined to comment.  Concealing Documents  Stevens is charged with one count of obstructing an
official proceeding, one count of falsifying and concealing
documents and four counts of making false statements.  The first two charges carry maximum prison terms of 20
years, and the others carry terms of five years.  Prosecutors contend that Stevens, who lives in  Durham,
North Carolina , “engaged in a yearlong effort” to deceive the
FDA about the company’s off-label marketing campaign for
Wellbutrin.  Under U.S. law, drug companies aren’t allowed to promote a
drug for any use not  approved  by the FDA.  In response to regulators’ request for information about
Wellbutrin’s marketing in October 2002, Stevens allegedly sent a
series of letters “that falsely denied the company had promoted
the drug for off-label uses, even though she knew” the
drugmaker had sponsored such marketing programs, prosecutors
said in court filings.  The case is U.S. v. Stevens, 10-cr-694, U.S. District
Court, District of  Maryland  (Greenbelt).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  