-- 
India Faces Pressure to Step Up Inflation Fight After Eighth Rate Increase

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-03-18T04:56:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/india-braces-for-inflation-risks-from-oil-after-rate-increase.html
  India  faces pressure to step up its
battle against price gains even after the steepest interest-rate
increases among  Asia ’s major economies, as oil costs rise and
consumer demand strengthens.  The  Reserve Bank of India  yesterday raised its inflation
forecast for the second time since late January as it lifted the
benchmark repurchase rate by a quarter-point to 6.75 percent,
the eighth move in a year.  “The pressures to manage inflation, out of the evolving
domestic and global situations, have only intensified,” Shanto
Ghosh, an economist at Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India Pvt., said
in an interview from  New Delhi  yesterday. “The pace of further
monetary tightening may see some acceleration.”  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao may boost borrowing costs by
another 0.75 percentage point in 2011, HSBC Holdings Plc and DBS
Group Holdings Ltd. said. India imports three-quarters of its
energy needs and oil has surged 25 percent in the past 12
months, stoked by political turmoil in the Middle East and Libya
that threatens supplies.  “The RBI would now appear even more concerned about the
inflation outlook,” said Leif Eskesen, an economist at HSBC in  Singapore . “Inflation risks clearly remain the dominant
concern, especially considering the current cocktail of elevated
food prices, rising international commodity prices and demand-
led inflation pressures.”  Stocks Fall  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index fell 0.7
percent at 10 a.m. in  Mumbai , extending declines this year to
12.1 percent, the most in Asia. India’s 11-year bond yields
climbed four basis points to 8.12 percent, while the rupee
strengthened 0.2 percent to 45.08 per dollar.  Subbarao’s eight rate increases in the past year compare
with three in  China  and four in  South Korea .  Indonesia  lifted
its reference rate last month for the first time this year after
opting not to join counterparts in boosting rates in 2010.  India’s key wholesale-price inflation unexpectedly
quickened to 8.31 percent in February, led by manufactured
product costs. That prompted the  Reserve Bank  yesterday to
predict the price gauge will reach 8 percent at the end of
March, compared with 7 percent it estimated on Jan. 25.  “Risks to inflation remain clearly on the upside,
reinforced by the persistence of demand-side pressures as
reflected in non-food manufacturing,” the Reserve Bank said in
its statement yesterday.  Consumer Demand  The central bank said non-food manufacturing inflation,
which reflects the strength in consumer demand, accelerated to
6.1 percent in February from 4.8 percent in the previous month.  “The acceleration was spread across manufacturing
activities, indicating that producers are able to pass on higher
input prices to consumers,” the bank said.  General Motors Co.’s India unit, which had raised prices by
as much as 2 percent in January, may boost them again by the end
of this month,  Karl Slym , head of the Detroit-based company’s
local unit, said in an interview with Bloomberg News on March 4.  Videocon Industries Ltd., an Aurangabad, India-based maker
of television sets, refrigerators and washing machines, will
probably pass on the “relentless surge” in raw material costs
to customers, Suresh M. Hegde, head of finance at the company,
said in a March 15 interview.  India’s $1.3 trillion economy may expand by as much as 9.25
percent in the fiscal year starting April 1, the fastest pace
since 2008, the  finance ministry  forecast last month.  Tax Cuts  Demand may strengthen after Finance Minister Pranab
Mukherjee’s budget for the fiscal year starting April 1 proposed
increasing spending by 13.4 percent to 12.6 trillion rupees
($279 billion). It also includes plans to exempt incomes below
180,000 rupees from tax, higher than the previous threshold of
160,000 rupees.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s coalition is aiming to put
more money in the hands of voters to help them cope with rising
prices and shore up support for five state elections this year.  The central bank said the purchasing managers’ index,
higher tax collections and expansion in bank credit provide
evidence that India’s growth momentum is intact.  Manufacturing in India grew at the fastest pace in three
months in February, according to the purchasing managers’ index
released by HSBC and Markit Economics. Loans extended by lenders
including ICICI Bank Ltd. gained 23.21 percent in the two weeks
to Feb. 25, near the fastest pace in more than two years.  Even as inflationary pressures have “accentuated”, risks
to growth are emerging, the Reserve Bank said.  Oil Concerns  “Rising global commodity prices, particularly oil, are a
major contributor to both developments,” it said. “Continuing
uncertainty about energy and commodity prices may vitiate the
investment climate, posing a threat to the current growth
trajectory.”  Oil surged in  New York  after the United Nations Security
Council voted to ground Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s air
force as continuing unrest in the Middle East and North Africa
renewed concerns the turmoil may spread and disrupt supply.  Regional unrest, which has cut  Libya ’s crude production by
1 million barrels a day and toppled the leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt , has reached Saudi Arabia’s neighbors Yemen and Oman as
well as Bahrain.  Crude for April delivery gained as much as $2.24 to $103.66
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Prices are up 1.7 percent for the week.  “Crude prices have a deep and insidious impact on the
Indian economy via chemicals, petrochemicals and transport
costs,” said Saugata Bhattacharya, a Mumbai-based economist at
Axis Bank Ltd. “They pressurize the economy, be it on prices or
eventually on growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  