-- 
Manufacturing Boosts U.S. Expansion as Fuel Prices Dent Consumer Sentiment

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-03-17T16:32:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/industrial-production-in-u-s-unexpectedly-falls-0-1-manufacturing-gains.html
Production at U.S. factories
increased for a sixth month in February, indicating
manufacturing will keep stoking the economy and underscoring the  Federal Reserve ’s view of a stronger expansion.  The 0.4 percent rise in manufacturing output, which makes
up 75 percent of all  industrial production , followed a 0.9
percent January gain that was three times as large as initially
estimated, Fed figures showed today. A gauge of Philadelphia-
area factories unexpectedly climbed to a 27-year high.  Texas Instruments Inc. and  General Motors Co. (GM)  are among
firms benefiting from overseas demand, business investment and
inventory restocking that are fueling manufacturing, the
industry that laid the foundation for the recovery. A decline in  consumer confidence , also reported today, showed higher fuel
prices pose a risk to the household spending that makes up 70
percent of the economy.  “Today’s data are very consistent with the ‘firmer
footing’ that the Fed was discussing” this week, said  Drew Matus , senior U.S. economist at UBS Securities LLC in  New York .
At the same time, “between oil and events in Japan, they do
pose a risk to harming confidence. There is some risk consumers
will pull back on spending.”  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index dropped to minus 48.5
in the week ended March 13, the lowest level since August, from
minus 44.5 in the prior period. Sentiment fell across most
income and age groups and worsened for all education levels.  Other figures today showed a decline in initial jobless
claims last week and an eighth straight gain in the index of
leading economic indicators.  Stocks Rally  Stocks rallied amid speculation  Japan  will contain its
nuclear crisis and as FedEx Corp.’s profit forecast beat
estimates. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.5 percent
to 1,275.66 at 12:29 p.m. in New York.  The Fed’s report showed that industrial production, which
includes factories, mines and utilities, unexpectedly fell 0.1
percent in February after a 0.3 percent gain. Utility output
slumped 4.5 percent during the month on milder weather.  Production of motor vehicles and parts climbed 4.2 percent
in February after rising 4.5 percent a month earlier, the report
showed.  U.S. sales at General Motors, Toyota Motor Corp. and Ford
Motor Co. in February exceeded analysts’ estimates as
industrywide deliveries rose to the fastest pace in 18 months.  “We’re off to a fast start this year,” Donald Johnson,
vice president for GM’s North America sales, said on a
teleconference on March 1. “Pent-up demand will continue to
have a positive influence on industry sales.”  Philadelphia Manufacturing  A gauge of manufacturing in the Philadelphia area jumped to
43.4 in March, the highest since January 1984, from 35.9 in
February. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in the
area covering eastern  Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware .  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the index would
fall to 28.8, according to the median estimate of 56 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Estimates ranged from 22 to 37.5.  The Philadelphia Fed’s new orders measure increased to 40.3
in March, the highest since November 1983. A gauge of factory
inventories increased to a five-year high.  “We have seen orders build through the quarter,” Ron Slaymaker, vice president of  investor relations  for Dallas-based
Texas Instruments, said on a conference call with analysts March
8. “Based upon what we’re seeing through the first two months,
we would expect that orders will be up solidly compared to the
fourth quarter.”  Higher Prices  Consumer prices rose 0.5 percent in February, led by the
biggest rise in food costs since 2008. Excluding food and fuel,
the so-called core gauge of consumer inflation climbed 0.2
percent for a second month.  Fed policy makers this week said U.S. growth is becoming
more durable and higher energy prices will have a temporary
effect on inflation.  “The economic recovery is on a firmer footing, and overall
conditions in the labor market appear to be improving
gradually,” the  Federal Open Market Committee  said this week.
“Household spending and business investment in equipment and
software continue to expand.”  Higher gasoline prices persisted for another week, becoming
a bigger concern for Americans already dealing with rising
grocery bills. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort report showed
confidence among households with annual incomes exceeding
$100,000 fell to the lowest level since November, posing a risk
for  consumer spending , the biggest part of the economy.  Began in 1985  The sentiment gauge, which began December 1985, fell to a
record low of minus 54 in November 2008, while the peak of 38
was reached in January 2000. Readings averaged minus 45.7 last
year.  Another report from the Labor Department showed first-time
filings for jobless benefits dropped by 16,000 in the week ended
March 12 to 385,000. The four-week average of claims dropped to
the lowest level since July 2008, indicating improvement in the
labor market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  