-- 
Intervention Risks Rise as Yen Stays Strong, JPMorgan Says

-- B y   H i r o k o   K o m i y a
-- 
2011-03-17T02:54:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/intervention-risks-rise-as-yen-remains-strong-jpmorgan-says.html
Junya Tanase, chief currency
strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  Tokyo , comments on the
possibility that  Japan  will intervene in currency markets after
the yen surged to a postwar high.  The  Bank of Japan  has injected 33 trillion yen ($416
billion) into the banking system this week, trying to settle
markets following an earthquake on March 11 that was the most
powerful on record and triggered a tsunami that killed thousands
and damaged a nuclear plant on the northeastern coast.  The yen has surged as the risk of radiation leaks from the
crippled plant stoked prospects insurers and investors will
redeem overseas assets to pay for damages. Japan’s currency
pared gains today, and traded at 79.17 against the dollar at
11:51 a.m. in Tokyo from 79.59 in  New York  yesterday.  “Concerns about the reactor accident have proven to be
stronger than expected. The yen is being slowly bought up, and
stop-loss purchases have been accelerating. Most of the panic
buying that occurred this morning may have been due to the
rewinding of positions. The buying basically won’t become a
trend. I won’t deny the possibility that the yen will enter
another phase of strengthening. It may move past 76 into 75, but
the chance that it will go beyond that are low.  “I’ve long been pessimistic about foreign-currency
intervention, but there is no mistaking that the moves have been
significant. If the Nikkei 225 Stock Average drops considerably,
intervening in  currency markets  could be justified on the
grounds of reassuring investors.  “Currency moves may have a major effect on the Bank of
Japan’s monetary policy. If the yen were to surge, we can say
that the possibility of further monetary easing by the central
bank will increase.  “While the chance of intervention has gone up, it would
have an extremely minimal impact on currency trends that are
underpinned by economic fundamentals. Conditions making people
risk-adverse will continue, and in the midterm, conditions that
are conducive to keeping the yen strong won’t change.”  ---With translation by Taku Kato in Tokyo.
Editor: Rocky Swift  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hiroko Komiya in Tokyo at 
 hkomiya1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the translator on this story:
Taku Kato in Tokyo at 
 tkato6@bloomberg.net ; 