-- 
Ireland’s Kenny Says Taxpayers Shouldn’t Bear All Bank Costs

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-03-17T12:57:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/ireland-s-kenny-says-taxpayers-shouldn-t-bear-all-bailout-cost.html
Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny 
said it’s “grossly unfair” that taxpayers alone should carry
the cost of bailing out the country’s banks as he pushed for
lower rates on a European-led rescue loan.  Kenny, on a visit to Washington where he says he’s trying
to repair Ireland’s “damaged” reputation, called for changes
to the aid package by the European Union and the  International
Monetary Fund  to avoid a situation where Ireland struggles to
pay back its loan and can’t generate economic growth.  “It is grossly unfair to expect the taxpayer to have to
pay 100 percent for the reckless lending practices of banks
which caused this in the first instance,” Kenny said yesterday
in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With
Margaret Brennan” broadcast today. The 5.8 percent average rate
Ireland pays for its loans is “too severe,” he said.  Kenny’s Fine Gael party took power last week after pledging
to seek a European agreement on sharing the cost of rescuing the
financial system with senior bank bondholders. His government is
counting on ongoing stress tests to reveal the full extent of
potential losses at the country’s lenders, after injecting 46.3
billion euros ($64.4 billion) into the financial system over the
past two years.  Kenny stopped short of saying who should pay along with
taxpayers. Asked about the treatment of senior bondholders,
Kenny said that his government will put no additional cash into
banks “until you see the scale of what the liability is, until
there is an understanding of what might be here.”  U.S. Meetings  Kenny met with Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner
yesterday as part of his U.S. visit. He will hold talks with
President  Barack Obama  today and attend the annual White House
reception for St. Patrick’s Day, Ireland’s national holiday.  The Irish prime minister vowed to keep the nation’s
corporate tax rate “intact” to attract foreign investors,
adding that his country is “open for business.”  Less than a week after failing to obtain a discount on the
rate charged by the EU because of Ireland’s refusal to increase
the country’s 12.5 percent company tax, Kenny repeated he is not
willing to negotiate it.  “It’s not correct to equate a conditionality of a
reduction in  interest rates  with the condition that a corporate
tax is increased,” he said. “I am not prepared to compromise
on something that is the individual competence of each country
in respect of our corporate tax rates.”  ‘Playing With Fire’  The premium investors charge to hold Irish 10-year debt
over the equivalent German bunds,  Europe ’s benchmark, was little
changed today at 641 basis points. It reached a record of 680 on
November 30, two days after the bailout.  Citigroup Inc. Chief Economist Willem Buiter said EU
leaders are “playing with fire” by not acceding to Ireland’s
request as it may force the country to restructure its debt
unilaterally.  “They have to come up with something for Ireland,” Buiter
said. “They’re going to have to make concession or Ireland will
have no option but to go it alone.”  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  at a March 11 euro-area leaders summit refused to
extend a cut of  Greece ’s borrowing costs to Ireland as Kenny
pushed back on taxes. Ireland has used the rate, which is about
half the EU average, to lure companies such as Hewlett-Packard
Co. and Pfizer Inc.  Ireland pays an average 5.8 percent interest rate on the
67.5 billion euros of aid from the IMF and the EU. Kenny said he
expects to obtain “some flexibility” from Europe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Brennan in New York at 
 mbrennan25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 