-- 
Jakarta Police Seek Bomb Couriers in Attacks That Wounded Five

-- B y   F e m i   A d i
-- 
2011-03-17T11:12:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/jakarta-police-seek-bomb-couriers-in-attacks-that-wounded-five.html
Indonesian police are trying to
identify couriers who delivered bombs concealed in books to four
people in Jakarta two days ago, one of which exploded, wounding
five including an officer who lost his hand, a spokesman said.  Police have questioned at least 20 people in an attempt to
identify the couriers in order to determine if the bombs were
sent by the same person or group, Indonesian National Police
Spokesman Baharudin Djafar said by phone today.  “These are home-made bombs,” Djafar said. “The creator
might be a professional as the book packages were neat and good.
This is a kind of terrorism, because the bombs make the people
afraid and panic.”    Indonesia , home to 209 million Muslims according to  Central
Intelligence Agency  estimates, has increased anti-terror
operations since the July 17, 2009, bombings at Jakarta’s JW
Marriott and Ritz-Carlton hotels that killed nine people,
including the two  suicide bombers . They were the first terrorist
attacks by Islamist militants in Indonesia in almost four years.  Bombs were sent March 15 to Ulil Absar Abdhala, founder of
the Liberal Islam Network; Gories Mere, a former head of
Indonesia’s Densus-88 anti-terrorism unit; Yapto S.
Soeryosoemarno, chairman of the Pancasila Youth organization;
and Ahmad Dhani, a well-known musician, Djafar said.  The bomb sent to Abdhala exploded when police tried to
defuse it before the bomb squad arrive. East Jakarta police
district officer Dodi Rahmawan lost his left hand in the blast.  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  ordered the national,
intelligence agency, the national police and the army to “work
harder” to solve the case.  “Don’t give any room for those who want to rip open a
situation that has already recovered,” he said, adding that
terrorists might change tactics and techniques.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Femi Adi in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  