-- 
Japan Churns Through ‘Heroic’ Workers Hitting Radiation Limits for Humans

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-03-18T10:52:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/japan-churns-through-heroic-workers-hitting-radiation-limits-for-humans.html
More workers were drafted for the
frontline of Japan’s biggest nuclear disaster as radiation
limits forced  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. to replace members of its
original team trying to avert a nuclear meltdown.  The utility increased its workforce at the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi plant to 322 yesterday from 180 on March 16 as it tried to
douse water over spent nuclear fuel rods to prevent them melting
and leaking lethal radiation. Levels beside exposed rods would
deliver a fatal dose in 16 seconds, said David Lochbaum, a
nuclear physicist for the Union of Concerned Scientists and a
former U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission safety instructor.  The permissible cumulative radiation exposure was more than
doubled three days ago to extend the time nuclear workers could
legally spend onsite. Radiation was measured at 20 millisieverts
per hour near the site’s administration building, Hikaru Kuroda,
the utility’s maintenance chief, told reporters today. An hour’s
exposure there would equate to the most workers are typically
allowed in one year, frustrating efforts to cool nuclear fuel.  “The risk is that material will be released, and the dose
rates around the vicinity of the reactor buildings will be so
high that the workers will not be able to get in there and do
anything,” said Peter Burns, former chief executive officer of
the  Australian Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety Agency .
“Then you have a more or less cascading situation.”  Ordered Out  Workers are being ordered to leave the plant, located 135
miles (220 kilometers) north of Tokyo, before  radiation dosages 
reach the maximum permissible level, said a spokesman yesterday
for the utility who declined to give his name.  “Monitors have shown large radiation numbers in some
places,” Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said at a briefing
today. Overall, levels aren’t high enough to be harmful, he said.    Radiation exposure  levels are measured in millisieverts.
Exposure totaling 100 millisieverts over a year is the lowest
level at which any increase in cancer is evident, according to
the  World Nuclear Association  in London. The cumulative maximum
level for nuclear workers was  increased  to 250 millisieverts
from 100 millisieverts by Japan’s health ministry on March 15.  Career Ending  “Once they have reached that limit, they can’t go in the
plant anymore,” said  John Price , a Melbourne-based consultant
on industrial accidents and former safety policy staffer at the
U.K.’s National Nuclear Corp. “You shouldn’t be doing that sort
of work ever again,” Price said by phone yesterday.  One plant worker was exposed to 106.3 millisieverts,  Japan ’s  Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency  said in a website
posting today.  “A worker receiving a dose of 100 millisieverts from these
emergency operations will have a future risk of a serious cancer
from this dose of less than 1 percent,” said Richard Wakeford,
a professor of epidemiology at the University of Manchester’s
 Dalton Nuclear Institute  in the U.K. That compares with a risk
of dying from cancer in the absence of this radiation exposure
of about 20 to 25 percent, Wakeford said in an e-mail today.  Nine Tokyo Electric employees and eight subcontractors
suffered exposure to their face not requiring hospital treatment,
two policemen needed radiation decontamination, and some firemen
exposed to radiation are under investigation, the  International
Atomic Energy Agency   said  on its website yesterday.  Control Room Evacuated  Operators evacuated a central  control room  for about 45
minutes on March 16 amid concerns that a containment vessel at
the plant’s reactor No. 3 was damaged and leaking radiation, the
agency said. Two employees who were wearing full-face masks in
the main control room complained of discomfort and were taken to
the plant’s industrial doctor, according to the report.  “The fact they were evacuated means that they were getting
very high surges of doses that were just too high to permit them
to keep working,” said Evan Douple, associate chief of research
at the  Radiation Effects Research Foundation  in Hiroshima.  Releases of radiation so far have been localized and in the
immediate vicinity of the plant,  Gerry Thomas , chair in
molecular pathology at  London ’s Imperial College, said March 16
in a telephone interview.  “They are pulling the workers back if they think there is
going to be a spike, which is a sensible precaution,” said
Thomas, who studied the aftermath of the 1986 nuclear disaster
at  Chernobyl , Ukraine. “It doesn’t mean that anything nasty
would happen to them if they were still there. If you can avoid
getting a radiation dose, you avoid it.”  Chernobyl Disaster  About 200,000 people from across the former  Soviet Union 
were involved in the  recovery and clean-up  of Chernobyl in 1986
and 1987, receiving average radiation doses of about 100
millisieverts, according to the  World Nuclear Association .  The highest doses were received by about 1,000 emergency
workers and onsite personnel during the first day of the
accident, when radiation doses rose as high as 20,000
millisieverts. Twenty-eight workers died of acute radiation
syndrome within a few weeks, the association said on its website.  Control-room workers in Fukushima would be wearing full-
length overalls and face masks that probably use a carbon filter
or bottled oxygen supply to prevent the inhalation of
contaminated particles, consultant Price said.  Radiation reached 400 millisieverts per hour on March 15 at
the plant’s No. 3 reactor. The exposure limit for a nuclear
industry employee is 20 millisieverts a year, averaged over five
years, according to the nuclear association.  ‘Really, Heroics’  “What we are seeing now is, really, heroics,” said Seth Grae, chief executive officer of Lightbridge Corp., a nuclear
consultancy in McLean, Virginia.  The on-site team is likely foregoing sleep and food, and
working with minimal light as levels of radiation rise,
according to Gennady Pshakin, a former  International Atomic
Energy Agency  official.  “They are like the Spartans, standing up against all
that’s thrown against them,” said Pshakin, who has worked in
the nuclear industry for 40 years, referring to the people of
ancient  Greece  who fended off military attacks for centuries.
“They are probably working on thin air,” he said by phone from
Obninsk, the site of the world’s first nuclear power plant.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net . 