-- 
Japan Nuclear Disaster Caps Decades of Faked Reports, Accidents

-- B y   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d
-- 
2011-03-18T08:52:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/japan-s-nuclear-disaster-caps-decades-of-faked-safety-reports-accidents.html
The unfolding disaster at the
Fukushima nuclear plant follows decades of falsified safety
reports, fatal accidents and underestimated earthquake risk in  Japan ’s atomic power industry.  The destruction caused by last week’s 9.0 earthquake and
tsunami comes less than four years after a 6.8 quake shut the
world’s biggest atomic plant, also run by Tokyo Electric Power
Co. In 2002 and 2007, revelations the utility had faked repair
records forced the resignation of the company’s chairman and
president, and a three-week shutdown of all 17 of its reactors.  With almost no oil or gas reserves of its own, nuclear
power has been a national priority for Japan since the end of
World War II, a conflict the country fought partly to secure oil
supplies. Japan has  54  operating nuclear reactors -- more than
any other country except the U.S. and  France  -- to power its
industries, pitting economic demands against safety concerns in
the world’s most earthquake-prone country.  Nuclear engineers and academics who have worked in Japan’s
atomic power industry spoke in interviews of a history of
accidents, faked reports and inaction by a succession of Liberal
Democratic Party governments that ran Japan for nearly all of
the postwar period.  Katsuhiko Ishibashi, a seismology professor at Kobe
University, has said Japan’s history of nuclear accidents stems
from an overconfidence in plant engineering. In 2006, he
resigned from a government panel on reactor safety, saying the
review process was rigged and “unscientific.”  Nuclear Earthquake  In an interview in 2007 after  Tokyo Electric ’s Kashiwazaki
nuclear plant was struck by an earthquake, Ishibashi said
fundamental improvements were needed in engineering standards
for atomic power stations, without which Japan could suffer a
catastrophic disaster.  “We didn’t learn anything,” Ishibashi said in a phone
interview this week. “Nuclear power is national policy and
there’s a real reluctance to scrutinize it.”  To be sure, Japan’s record isn’t the worst. The
 International Atomic Energy Agency  rates nuclear accidents on a
scale of zero to seven, with Chernobyl in the former  Soviet
Union  rated seven, the most dangerous. Fukushima, where the
steel vessels at the heart of the reactors have so far not
ruptured, is currently a class five, the same category as the
1979 partial reactor meltdown at Three Mile Island in the U.S.  ‘No Chernobyl’  “The key thing here is that this is not another
Chernobyl,” said Ken Brockman, a former director of nuclear
installation safety at the IAEA in Vienna. “Containment
engineering has been vindicated. What has not been vindicated is
the site engineering that put us on a path to accident.”  The 40-year-old Fukushima plant, built in the 1970s when
Japan’s first wave of nuclear construction began, stood up to
the country’s worst earthquake on record March 11 only to have
its power and back-up generators knocked out by the 7-meter
tsunami that followed.  Lacking electricity to pump water needed to cool the atomic
core, engineers vented radioactive steam into the atmosphere to
release pressure, leading to a series of explosions that blew
out concrete walls around the reactors.  Radiation readings spiked around Fukushima as the disaster
widened, forcing the evacuation of 200,000 people and causing
radiation levels to rise on the outskirts of  Tokyo , 135 miles
(210 kilometers) to the south, with a population of 30 million.  Basement Generator  Back-up diesel generators that might have averted the
disaster were positioned in a basement, where they were
overwhelmed by waves.  “This in the country that invented the word Tsunami,”
said Brockman, who also worked at the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission. “Japan is going to have a look again at its
regulatory process and whether it’s intrusive enough.”  The cascade of events at Fukushima had been foretold in a
report published in the U.S. two decades ago. The 1990 report by
the U.S.  Nuclear Regulatory Commission , an independent agency
responsible for safety at the country’s power plants, identified
earthquake-induced diesel generator failure and power outage
leading to failure of cooling systems as one of the “most
likely causes” of nuclear accidents from an external event.  While the report was cited in a 2004 statement by Japan’s
 Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency , it seems adequate measures
to address the risk were not taken by Tokyo Electric, said Jun
Tateno, a former researcher at the Japan Atomic Energy Agency
and professor at Chuo University.  Accident Foretold  “It’s questionable whether Tokyo Electric really studied
the risks,” Tateno said in an interview. “That they weren’t
prepared for a once in a thousand year occurrence will not go
over as an acceptable excuse.”  Hajime Motojuku, a utility spokesman, said he couldn’t
immediately confirm whether the company was aware of the report.  All six boiling water reactors at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant were designed by  General Electric Co. (GE)  and the company
built the No. 1, 2 and 6 reactors, spokeswoman Emily Caruso said
in an e-mail response to questions. The No. 1 reactor went into
commercial operation in 1971.    Toshiba Corp. (6502)  built 3 and 5.  Hitachi Ltd. (6501) , which folded its
nuclear operations into a venture with GE known as Hitachi-GE
Nuclear Energy Ltd. in 2007, built No. 4.  All the reactors meet the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission requirements for safe operation during and after an
earthquake for the areas where they are licensed and sited, GE
said on its website.  Botched Container?  Mitsuhiko Tanaka, 67, working as an engineer at  Babcock
Hitachi K.K. , helped design and supervise the manufacture of a
$250 million steel pressure vessel for Tokyo Electric in 1975.
Today, that vessel holds the fuel rods in the core of the No. 4
reactor at Fukushima’s Dai-Ichi plant, hit by explosion and fire
after the tsunami.  Tanaka says the vessel was damaged in the production
process. He says he knows because he orchestrated the cover-up.
When he brought his accusations to the government more than a
decade later, he was ignored, he says.  The accident occurred when Tanaka and his team were
strengthening the steel in the pressure vessel, heating it in a
furnace to more than 600 degrees Celsius (1,112 degrees
Fahrenheit), a temperature that melts metal. Braces that should
have been inside the vessel during the blasting were either
forgotten or fell over. After it cooled, Tanaka found that its
walls had warped.  ‘Felt Like a Hero’  The law required the flawed vessel be scrapped, a loss that
Tanaka said might have bankrupted the company. Rather than
sacrifice years of work and risk the company’s survival, Tanaka
used computer modeling to devise a way to reshape the vessel so
that no one would know it had been damaged. He did that with
Hitachi’s blessings, he said.  “I saved the company billions of yen,” Tanaka said in an
interview March 12, the day after the earthquake. Tanaka says he
got a 3 million yen bonus ($38,000) from Hitachi and a plaque
acknowledging his “extraordinary” effort in 1974. “At the
time, I felt like a hero.”  That changed with Chernobyl. Two years after the world’s
worst nuclear accident, Tanaka went to the Ministry of Economy,
Trade and Industry to report the cover-up he’d engineered more
than a decade earlier. Hitachi denied his accusation and the
government refused to investigate.  ‘No Safety Problem’  Kenta Takahashi, an official at the NISA’s Power Generation
Inspection Division, said he couldn’t confirm whether the
agency’s predecessor, the Agency for Natural Resources and
Energy, conducted an investigation into Tanaka’s claim.  In 1988, Hitachi met with Tanaka to discuss the work he had
done to fix the dent in the vessel. They concluded that there
was no safety problem, said Hitachi spokesman Yuichi Izumisawa.
“We have not revised our view since then,” Izumisawa said.  In 1990, Tanaka wrote a book called “Why Nuclear Power Is
Dangerous” that detailed his experiences.  Tokyo Electric in 2002 admitted it had falsified repair
reports at nuclear plants for more than two decades. Chairman
Hiroshi Araki and President Nobuyama Minami resigned to take
responsibility for hundreds of occasions in which the company had
submitted false data to the regulator.  Then in 2007, the utility said it hadn’t come entirely
clean five years earlier. It had concealed at least six
emergency stoppages at its Fukushima Dai-Ichi power station and
a “critical” reaction at the plant’s No. 3 unit that lasted
for seven hours.  Ignored Warnings?  Tokyo Electric ignored warnings about the tsunami risks
that caused the crisis at Fukushima, Tatsuya Ito, who
represented Fukushima prefecture in the national parliament from
1991 to 2003, said in a March 16 telephone interview.  The Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant was only designed to withstand
a 5.7-meter tsunami, not the 7-meter wall of water generated by
last week’s earthquake or the 6.4-meter tsunami that struck
neighboring Miyagi prefecture after the Valdiva earthquake in
1960, Ito said.  The dangers posed by a tsunami the size of the one
generated by the 9.5-magnitude Valdiva temblor off  Chile  are
described in a 2002 report by the Japan Society of Civil
Engineers, Ito said.  “Tokyo Electric brought this upon itself,” said Ito, who
now heads the National Center for the Citizens’ Movement Against
the Nuclear Threat, based in Tokyo. “This accident unfolded as
expected.”  Coming Clean  Ito said he has met Tepco employees to discuss his concerns
at least 20 times since 2003 and sent a formal letter to then-
president Tsunehisa Katsumata in 2005.  “We are prioritizing the safety of the plant and are not
at a point where we can reflect upon and properly assess the
root causes,” said Naoki Tsunoda, a Tokyo Electric spokesman in
Tokyo. He said he couldn’t immediately confirm the exchanges
made between Ito and the company.  Kansai Electric Power Co., the utility that provides  Osaka 
with electricity, said it also faked nuclear safety records.
Chubu Electric Power Co., Tohoku Electric Power Co. and  Hokuriku
Electric Power Co. (9505)  said the same.  Only months after that second round of revelations, an
earthquake struck a cluster of seven reactors run by Tokyo
Electric on Japan’s north coast. The Kashiwazaki Kariwa nuclear
plant, the world’s biggest, was hit by a 6.8 magnitude temblor
that buckled walls and caused a fire at a transformer. About 1.5
liters (half gallon) of radioactive water sloshed out of a
container and ran into the sea through drains because sealing
plugs hadn’t been installed.  Fault Line  While there were no deaths from the accident and the IAEA
said radiation released was within authorized limits for public
health and environmental safety, the damage was such that three
of the plant’s reactors are still offline.  After the quake, Trade Minister Akira Amari said regulators
hadn’t properly reviewed Tokyo Electric’s geological survey when
they approved the site in 1974.  The world’s biggest nuclear power plant had been built on
an earthquake fault line that generated three times as much
seismic acceleration, or 606 gals, as it was designed to
withstand, the utility said. One gal, a measure of shock effect,
represents acceleration of 1 centimeter (0.4 inch) per square
second.  ‘Rubber Stamp’  After Hokuriku Electric’s Shika nuclear power plant in
Ishikawa prefecture was rocked by a 6.9 magnitude quake in March
2007, government scientists found it had been built near an
earthquake fault that was more than twice as long as regulators
deemed threatening.  “Regulators just rubber-stamp the utilities’ reports,”
Takashi Nakata, a former  Hiroshima Institute of Technology 
seismologist and an anti-nuclear activist, said at the time.  While Japan had never suffered a failure comparable to
Chernobyl, the Fukushima disaster caps a decade of fatal
accidents.  Two workers at a fuel processing plant were killed by  radiation exposure  in 1999, when they used buckets, instead of
the prescribed containers, to eye-ball a uranium mixture,
triggering a chain-reaction that went unchecked for 20 hours.  ‘No Possibility’  Regulators failed to ensure that safety alarms were
installed at the plant run by Sumitomo Metal Mining Co. because
they believed there was “no possibility” of a major accident
at the facility, according to an  analysis  by the NRC in the U.S.
The report said there were ‘indications’ the company instructed
workers to take shortcuts, without regulatory approval.  In 2004, an eruption of super-heated steam from a burst
pipe at a reactor run by Kansai Electric killed five workers and
scalded six others. A government investigation showed the burst
pipe section had been omitted from safety checklists and had not
been inspected for the 28 years the plant had been in operation.  Unlike France and the U.S., which have independent
regulators, responsibility for keeping Japan’s reactors safe
rests with the same body that oversees the effort to increase
nuclear power generation: the  Trade Ministry . Critics say that
creates a conflict of interest that may hamper safety.  ‘Scandals and Lies’  “What is necessary is a qualified, well-funded,
independent regulator,” said Seth Grae, chief executive officer
of  Lightbridge Corp. (LTBR) , a nuclear consultant in the U.S.
“What happens when you have an independent regulatory agency,
you can have a utility that has scandals and lies, but the
regulator will yank its licensing approvals,” he said.  Tanaka says his book on the experiences he had with the
nuclear power industry went out of print in 2000. His publisher
called on March 13, two days after the Fukushima earthquake, and
said they were starting another print run.  “Maybe this time people will listen,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Clenfield in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  