-- 
Japan May Face ‘Irreversible’ Damage to Its Power Capacity, Citigroup Says

-- B y   P a u l   P a n c k h u r s t
-- 
2011-03-17T02:26:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/japan-may-face-irreversible-damage-to-its-power-capacity-citigroup-says.html
  Japan  may face “irreversible”
damage to power-supply capacity from the March 11 earthquake,
limiting business activity, Citigroup Inc. said.  “Particularly worrying is the serious blow to the power
supply in eastern Japan,”  Kiichi Murashima , chief economist at
Citigroup Global Markets Japan in  Tokyo , said in an e-mailed
note dated yesterday. “It is difficult to tell how long this
will remain a drag on corporate activity.”  Power supply may be reduced by 54 percent under a worst-
case scenario to companies reliant on Tokyo Electric Power Co.,
Murashima said. That calculation is based on the company
suspending operations at all nuclear plants and thermal  power
plants  being unable to resume operating, the note said.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average resumed its slide today as
helicopters dumped water on uranium and plutonium fuel rods at a
reactor at Tepco’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi power station and after a
U.S. official warned of radiation dangers. The benchmark was
down 2 percent as of 10:57 a.m. local time after earlier falling
as much as 5 percent.  Tepco supplies 32 percent of Japan’s electricity, according
to Murashima.  Citigroup’s ``base case'' is that the partially operating
Kashiwazaki-Kariwa plant keeps going, other nuclear power
stations do not, and operations at thermal stations return
to normal “quickly.” Here, the calculation is for a 20 percent
reduction in supply to companies reliant on Tepco.  “Reconsidering the economic impact of the earthquake, we
cannot help but feel that Japan’s supply capacity may have been
irreversibly damaged,” Murashima said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Beijing at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  