-- 
Japanese Stocks in U.S., Australian Shares Advance on Easing Concern, Oil

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-03-17T23:44:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/japanese-stocks-in-u-s-australian-shares-rise-as-nuclear-concerns-ease.html
Japanese stocks traded in the U.S.
rose as concern eased about nuclear radiation and the effects of
last week’s earthquake, and on speculation the government will
act to weaken the yen. Australian shares advanced.  The Bank of New York Mellon Japan ADR Index jumped 3.3
percent yesterday, the most since October 2009. American
depositary receipts of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.,
Japan’s largest bank by market value, gained 2.9 percent. Those
of Komatsu Ltd., the world’s No. 2 maker of construction
machinery, climbed 2 percent. Woodside Petroleum Ltd. increased
2.5 percent in Sydney today as crude oil futures advanced.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
June closed at 8,875 in  Chicago  yesterday, compared with 8,930
in  Osaka , Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,900 in
Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
gained 0.4 percent today.  New Zealand ’s NZX 50 Index climbed 0.7
percent in Wellington.  “The market has priced in the worsening situation at the
nuclear plants to some extent, and negative surprises no longer
happen every time there’s some announcement,” said Juichi Wako,
a senior strategist at Tokyo-based Nomura Holdings Inc. “It is
expected there will be some understanding and support toward
Japan’s currency intervention at the G-7 meeting.”  The yen strengthened to a post-World War II high yesterday
in  New York  ahead of today’s Group of Seven phone meeting to
discuss the threat to the world’s third-largest economy from
last week’s earthquake and a worsening nuclear crisis.  G7 Meeting  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.4
percent today. The index advanced 1.3 percent yesterday amid
investor speculation that Japan will contain its nuclear crisis
and as FedEx Corp.’s profit forecast beat estimates.  Finance chiefs from the Group of Seven nations were
scheduled to hold talks via conference call today from 7 a.m.  Tokyo  time.  The yen traded at 79.37 against the dollar, compared with
79.27 at the close of  stock trading  in Tokyo yesterday. The
Japanese currency strengthened to a post-World War II high of
76.36 yen per dollar on March 17.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. said efforts to use water cannons
and helicopters to cool its damaged Fukushima nuclear plant may
have had some success as workers try to stop radioactive
pollution spreading. A bid to spray water on to the No. 3
reactor may have worked, a Tokyo Electric official said at a
briefing. The company is trying to connect a power cable to the
plant.  ‘Very Serious’  The  International Atomic Energy Agency  said the situation
at three loaded reactor cores in Japan’s Fukushima nuclear
complex has been “relatively stable” in the last 24 hours. All
of the units are damaged and don’t have cooling, IAEA Director
Graham Andrew said yesterday at a press briefing in Vienna. The
situation remains “very serious,” he said.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 6.6 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 1.3 percent by the  S&P 500  and a drop of 3.2 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 12.9 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.1 times for the S&P 500
and 10.7 times for the Stoxx 600.  Takeo Nishioka, the president of  Japan ’s upper house of
parliament, called for securities and foreign exchange markets
to close for about a week to stave off the wild fluctuations
that have been seen this week,  Kyodo News  reported yesterday.
The Tokyo Stock Exchange said it plans to remain open.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 