-- 
Japan Energy Crisis Shows Need for Diverse Fuels, SunPower Says

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-03-17T17:23:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/japan-energy-crisis-shows-need-for-diverse-fuels-sunpower-says.html
Japan’s nuclear crisis underscores
the need for a diverse fuel supply, according to executives at  SunPower Corp. (SPWRA) , the second-largest U.S. solar-module maker.  “Of course these macro events affect public policy,”
Thomas Werner, SunPower’s chief executive officer, said today in
an interview at Bloomberg’s Washington office. Werner is among
Silicon Valley executives meeting members of Congress and the
administration this week to push an immigration overhaul,
extension of a tax credit for research and development and more
spending on energy programs.  The energy debate has focused on when to replace aging coal
plants amid concerns that emissions add to  climate change , said
Julie Blunden, SunPower executive vice president of public
policy. Coal, which supplies about half of the electricity used
in the U.S., emits carbon dioxide when burned.  As  Japan  seeks to prevent a meltdown at the Fukushima
Daiichi nuclear plant, U.S. policy makers may begin to question
whether to extend the operating life of nuclear units, she said.  “To the extent that it becomes coal and nuclear
retirements, it is going to be more headroom to fill with new
resources,” she said.  President Barack Obama is pushing a clean energy plan to
require 80 percent of U.S. electricity to come from low-
polluting sources, including solar, wind, cleaner coal and
nuclear power by 2035.  Nuclear companies are a “big power at the table” in
energy discussions, Blunden said.  “When you think through the dynamic it’s hard to predict
whether that pushes you forward or pulls it back from a this-
year conversation,” Blunden said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in  Washington  at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 