-- 
Japanese Government Bonds Fall as G-7 Acts to Weaken Yen, Stocks Advance

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-03-18T06:36:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/japan-s-government-bonds-may-fall-paring-weekly-gain-as-yen-halts-rally.html
  Japan ’s 10-year government bonds
declined, trimming this week’s advance, after stocks gained and
the Group of Seven said their central banks will jointly
intervene in the  currency market  to weaken the yen.  Benchmark yields rose from near a two-month low after
domestic stocks climbed as the yen depreciated, boosting the
earnings outlook for the country’s exporters. The yield premium
investors demand to hold 30-year debt instead of five-year notes
was near the highest level in three months on concern the
government will sell more bonds to finance reconstruction after
the nation’s biggest earthquake.  “Japan is still the world’s third-biggest economy, so it
can’t be ignored,” said  Kiyoshi Ishigane , a senior strategist
in  Tokyo  at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., which oversees
about $86 billion. “A gain in stocks triggers a shift of funds,
causing bonds to be sold.”  The benchmark 10-year yield added one basis point to 1.21
percent as of 3:14 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading Co., the
nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 1.3 percent
security due March 2021 lost 0.09 yen to 100.802 yen. The yield
dropped to 1.145 percent on March 15, the lowest since Jan. 5.  It slid six basis points since March 11, the biggest weekly
drop since the period ended Oct. 8.  Ten-year bond futures for June delivery rose 0.04 to 139.74
at the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average gained
as much as 3.5 percent.  The yen weakened 3.6 percent to 81.72 per dollar today
after appreciating to 76.25 yesterday, surpassing its peak
reached in April 1995. A stronger yen makes Japanese exports
more expensive overseas and reduces the value of overseas
earnings at the nation’s companies when repatriated.  Construction Bonds  Each of the G-7 members will sell yen as their markets open,
Japan’s Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told reporters in Tokyo
today. The G-7 said in a joint statement after a conference call
of its finance ministers and central bank chiefs that it will
“provide any needed cooperation” with Japan.  The yield spread between 30-year debt and 5-year notes was
1.73 percentage points, the widest since Dec. 7.  The Sankei newspaper said Japan’s government may sell more
than 10 trillion yen ($122 billion) of reconstruction debt, all
of which the Bank of Japan may buy. Although law prohibits the
central bank from underwriting  government bonds  unless there is
a “special” reason, the earthquake is judged as a special
reason, the report said.  “When it comes to the economy, it’s all about how much you
spend,” said Mitsubishi UFJ’s Ishigane. “Even if you build a
pyramid, destroy it and rebuild it, you can increase GDP.”  5-Year Yields  Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  said the
BOJ can’t directly underwrite government bonds under law. That
the central bank would purchase all of a potential issue of 10
trillion yen in bonds is “unthinkable,” he said.  Richard Wright, an investment manager at RBW Capital
Advisors LLC, forecast Japan’s yields will rise as stocks climb.  “You’re going to see yields go from 1.2 percent up to 3
percent in the next 12 months,” he said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television.  Five-year yields slid two basis points to 0.48 percent as
the central bank continued to provide additional liquidity. The  Bank of Japan  pumped 4 trillion yen into the financial system in
one-day operations today. The move increased the total amount of
emergency funding this week to 38 trillion yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 