-- 
Japanese Money Trapped by Mantega Tax as Real Beats Aussie: Brazil Credit

-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-03-17T22:13:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/japanese-money-trapped-as-real-beating-aussie-brazil-credit.html
The foreigners’ tax that  Brazil 
tripled last year to keep out cash may now be discouraging
Japanese investors from pulling their money from the country
after last week’s earthquake, currency trading shows.  While Brazil ranks one spot behind  Australia  as the  fourth-
biggest overseas market  for Japanese retail investors, the real
has surged 2.6 percent against the Australian dollar this week
and touched a three-month high. Japanese families are leaving
their Brazilian bond holdings untouched as they look for other
places to withdraw capital and fund reconstruction, said  Kevin Daly , who helps oversee about $6 billion of emerging-market debt
at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc.  Investors are hesitant to pull money from Brazil because
they want to avoid paying the 6 percent tax should they decide
to move money back in, according to Bank of America Corp. The
bank said in a March 15 report the tax is preserving the real’s
value this week, the opposite of what Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  intended when he raised it in October. The real has
gained this week against four of the five most-traded emerging-
market currencies, falling only against the Taiwanese dollar.  “The one consideration they have to have is if they take
their money offshore, it’s going to be pretty expensive to go
back in,” Daly said in a telephone interview from London. “We
haven’t seen any overt signs of outflows from Japanese investors
in Brazil.”  Yield Gap  Brazil’s 10-year real-denominated bonds yielded 12.795
percent yesterday, or 10.37 percentage points above similar-
maturity Japanese debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Emerging-market local bonds yield 6.6 percent on average,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Japanese investors’ holdings of Brazilian assets surged
almost sixty-fold to 2.8 trillion yen ($35.6 billion) from 5.4
billion yen in 2005, making it the Asian nation’s fourth-largest
foreign holding after the U.S.,  Europe  and Australia, according
to the Investment Trust Association.  Brazil is leaning toward raising taxes to curb fixed-income
inflows as it weighs measures to stem currency gains, a
government official briefed on the discussions, who asked not to
be identified because the talks aren’t public, said today. An
official at the  Finance Ministry ’s press office in Brasilia
declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News.  Tax Increases  Mantega boosted the so-called IOF tax on overseas purchases
twice in October to stem inflows that have sparked a two-year,
38 percent rally in the real. Near-zero  interest rates  in  Japan ,
Europe and the U.S. have fueled demand for fixed-income assets
sold by Brazil, whose inflation-adjusted rates are the highest
in the world after  Croatia , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The 6 percent IOF tax on new inflows ironically creates
an important disincentive to temporary unwinds as an eventual
reversion of these repatriations would only occur at a
substantially lower rate,” wrote Virgilio Castro Cunha and  David Beker  at Bank of America Corp. on March 15. “Japanese
investors are likely to turn to other investments before pulling
money out of Brazil.”  Mantega told reporters in Brasilia on March 15 that he’s
monitoring the market to assess possible currency measures. The
main consequence of the earthquake in Japan for Brazil is market
volatility, he said.  The Finance Ministry declined to comment in an e-mailed
statement.  Shut Factories  Speculation Japanese will repatriate funds is growing after
the March 11 earthquake and subsequent tsunami shut
manufacturing plants at Sony Corp. and Toyota Motor Corp. and
sent more than 350,000 people to emergency shelters. Insurers
and reinsurers may face 2.8 trillion yen in claims from the 9-
magnitude quake, excluding damage from the tsunami, initial
estimates from catastrophe modeler AIR Worldwide show.  Japanese may repatriate assets in the near term, central
bank President Alexandre Tombini said at an event in  Sao Paulo 
today.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of Treasuries narrowed six basis
points to 184 at 6 p.m.  New York  time, according to JPMorgan.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years rose fell one basis point to 118, according to CMA
DataVision prices. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Rate Futures  Yields on interest-rate futures contracts due in January
2012 were unchanged today at 12.32 percent, suggesting traders
are betting the central bank will boost the benchmark rate to
12.75 percent by year-end. The benchmark Japanese rate is 0.1
percent.  The real fell 0.1 percent against the  U.S. dollar  to
1.6780. The greenback fell to the lowest since World War II
against the Japanese yen as the risk of radiation leaks from a
crippled nuclear plant stoked prospects insurers and investors
will redeem overseas assets to pay for damages.  The IOF tax will fail to deter Japanese from repatriating
Brazilian holdings because their investments are in markets not
subject to the levy, according to Kieran Curtis, who helps
manage about $2 billion in emerging-market debt at Aviva
Investors in  London . Japanese investors buy the real in the non-
deliverable forwards market and purchase real-linked bonds that
trade overseas, he said.  They are likely to repatriate other assets before selling
their Brazilian holdings in part because of the cultural ties
between the countries, according to Marjorie Hernandez, a
currency strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc in New York.  About 1.6 million Japanese nationals or people of Japanese
descent live in Brazil, the biggest community outside of the
Asian country, according to the country’s embassy in Brasilia.
Japanese started to immigrate to the South American nation in
the early 20th century as laborers working in coffee
plantations.  “You take it out of elsewhere first, that’s my feeling,”
Hernandez said. There’s a “cultural link that is very strong”
and “they believe in it,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  