-- 
Japanese Stocks Trim Earlier Declines as G-7 to Meet Tomorrow on Economy

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a   a n d   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 
2011-03-17T11:07:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/japan-stocks-plunge-on-concern-nuclear-crisis-to-hurt-economy-strong-yen.html
Japanese equities pared declines as
Group of Seven finance ministers agreed to meet tomorrow to
discuss financial markets and the country’s economy after an
earthquake and nuclear accident triggered steep declines in
stocks.  The  Nikkei 225  Stock Average closed more than 730 points
higher than a two-year intraday low on March 15 after it pared a
5 percent loss today. Toyota Motor Corp., which gets 30 percent
of revenue in  North America , trimmed its loss to 2.7 percent
from 5.7 percent as the yen traded below an overnight post-World
War II record. Tokyo Electric Power Co., owner of the stricken
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power station, trimmed its decline
from 22 percent to 13 percent after saying more than 300 people
are working on its damaged reactors and that a new cooling-
system power source may be installed as early as this afternoon.  The Nikkei 225 fell 1.4 percent to 8,962.67 at the 3 p.m.
close in  Tokyo  after falling 5 percent. The broader Topix index
dropped 0.8 percent to 810.80, with five stocks rising for every
three that fell. Eleven of the 33 industry groups advanced in
the index, which briefly swung to a gain in the afternoon.  “We are hoping that the tragedy would be averted now that
Japan is sending more workers at the crippled nuclear power
station,” said Hong Kong-based Michiya Tomita, who helps
oversee about $65 billion for Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Manament Co.
“Technically, that should help the market recover, but
sentiment will remain weak as investors assess the economic
impact of the disaster.”  ‘Extremely High’ Radiation  The G-7 talks will begin at 7 a.m. Tokyo time and will
encompass currencies, Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told
reporters in Tokyo today. The yen strengthened after stock
markets closed. A strong yen reduces the value of overseas sales
for exporters when converted into their home currency.  U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Chairman Gregory Jaczko
told a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee yesterday that all
cooling water has drained from the spent-fuel pool at one of the
stricken reactors and “radiation levels are extremely high,
which could possibly impact the ability to take corrective
measures.”  The Nikkei Stock Average Volatility Index, a measure of
Japanese option prices, has more than tripled in the past week
as equities tumbled. The gauge slipped 3 percent to 67.68 today,
implying a 19 percent swing in the Nikkei 225 Stock Average in
the next 30 days.  ‘Panic Selling’  “The equity markets are very nervous,” said Tey Tze Ming,
a market strategist at Saxo Capital Markets Pte in  Singapore .
“There’s a lot of panic selling and there are still a lot of
unknowns. The nuclear crisis developing in Japan is first and
foremost on everyone’s mind. If things really go sour there, it
could have a big impact on world growth, so that’s why everyone
is skittish.”  The yen resumed gains against the dollar this afternoon
amid signs policymakers may delay intervention in the foreign
exchange market. The yen traded at 79.27 per dollar as of the
close of  stock trading  in Tokyo from 79.59 in  New York  yesterday.
It earlier strengthened to 76.36, past the previous mark of
79.75 reached in April 1995.  The  United Nations ’ nuclear agency plans an emergency
meeting to discuss the crisis at  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
power plant as hundreds of cars streamed south of areas hit by
last week’s earthquake and tsunami.  “Far more investors are looking to protect their assets by
reducing risk, instead of looking to make profits,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $450 million in Tokyo at
Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. “We don’t know what will
happen to the nuclear plants and the government’s pronouncements
are losing credibility.”  Exporters Slip  Companies which rely on overseas sales slumped on concern
the stronger yen will hurt their profits. Toyota, the world’s
largest carmaker, retreated 2.7 percent. Fanuc Corp., an
industrial-robot manufacturer, dropped 4 percent. Canon Inc.,
the world’s biggest camera maker, lost 3.3 percent.  Tokyo Electric Power,  Asia ’s biggest power generator,
traded for the first time during trading hours this week. The
shares plummeted 13 percent to 798 yen, the lowest close since
March 1982. The company, which has lost 62 percent of its market
value this week, representing 2.13 trillion yen ($27 billion),
was the most actively-traded stock by value in Japan.  Tokio Marine Holdings Inc, the country’s second-largest
casualty insurer, lost 3.4 percent. MS&AD Insurance Group
Holdings Inc. fell 1.7 percent. NKSJ Holdings Inc. retreated 3.4
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson in  Hong Kong  at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  