-- 
Japan’s Radiation Plume Is Moving Northeast Over Pacific Ocean, Group Says

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 
2011-03-17T13:41:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/japan-radiation-plume-moving-northeast-over-pacific-data-show.html
The radiation plume released by
Japan’s damaged nuclear reactors is moving northeast over the  Pacific Ocean ,  Austria ’s Meteorological and Geophysics Center
reported on its  website .  The concentration of  radionuclides  in the plume cannot be
determined because data from the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty
Organization’s Japan detection center were contaminated,
according to the  report . Agency spokeswoman Annika Thunborg
couldn’t confirm the contamination, she said via telephone from
Vienna, where the organization is based.  “There was simply some radioactivity in the inside of the
station when they dealt with the filter,” Geophysics Center
scientist Gerhard Wotawa wrote in response to written questions.
“This radioactivity came in from outside, when the plume passed
by.” Wotawa formerly worked at the test-ban treaty center and
developed its atmospheric-transport modeling system.  Radioactive barium, cesium, iodine and tellurium have been
detected in the plume. A “partly dispersed cloud passed by  Tokyo  area” yesterday, according to the Austrian  data center .  The  CTBTO  was set up in 1996 to detect nuclear-test
explosions. Its monitoring system has 63 operating radionuclide
centers around the world. The organization plans to build
another 17, Thunborg said in a March 15 interview. Countries
belonging to the CTBTO receive daily information showing how
radiation is moving through the atmosphere and where it is
likely to go.  The radiation particles released from the reactor vessels
and spent fuel ponds are moving southeast before extending in a
northeasterly pattern over the Pacific. Particles may start
moving northwest as the winds are expected to shift.  Populated Area  “Populated areas outside the immediate crisis area are
currently not directly hit,” the Meteorological and Geophysics
Center said.  Two CTBTO centers are located at the  Japan  Atomic Research
Institute in Tokyo. One measures radionuclides, while the other
detects noble gases.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. increased its workforce at the
crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant to 322 today from 180
yesterday as it tried to douse water over exposed nuclear fuel
rods to prevent melting and leaking lethal radiation. Levels
beside the exposed rods would deliver a fatal dose in 16
seconds, said David Lochbaum, a nuclear physicist for the Union
of Concerned Scientists and a former U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission safety instructor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  