-- 
Japan Land-Price Declines Slow as Property Investments Increase

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 
2011-03-17T07:50:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/japan-land-price-declines-slow-as-property-investments-increase.html
Japanese land-price declines slowed
last year after accelerating in 2009 as buyers such as real
estate investment trusts acquired properties after credit
conditions eased.  The nationwide average land price fell 3 percent in 2010,
less than a 4.6 percent drop a year earlier,  the Ministry of
Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism  said in a report
today.  A slower decline in land values, which are about half of
what they were after the peak in the 1980s, was supported by a
recovery in demand. Japanese REITs acquired 544.4 billion yen
($6.7 billion) of properties in 2010, more than double from the
previous year, according to  the Association for Real Estate
Securitization .  “In Tokyo, low  interest rates , strong foreign-investor
interest and J-REIT offerings are providing abundant capital
searching for investment opportunities in various asset
classes,” according to a report by Chicago-based  Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc.  before the March 11 earthquake.    Japan ’s property owners have shut some buildings after the
country’s strongest earthquake last week. Japan Retail Fund
Investment Corp., the nation’s second-largest REIT, said March
14 three of its properties have stopped operating due to damage.
The  Topix Real Estate Index (TPREAL)  lost 14 percent this week.  The drop in average land prices in Japan’s three-biggest
metropolitan cities, Tokyo, Osaka and Nagoya narrowed to 2
percent in 2010 from 5 percent a year earlier.  Easing Price Declines  Nationwide average residential land prices fell 2.7 percent
last year, compared with a 4.2 percent slide a year earlier.
Commercial land values declined 3.8 percent in 2010 from a 6.1
percent drop.  J-REITs represent 20 percent of Japan’s 45 trillion yen
securitized real-estate market, according to the most recent
government data. The market was created in 2001 to be a
financial tool that pools assets into tradable securities,
making them easier to invest.  The Ginza shopping district in  Tokyo  remained the country’s
most expensive commercial  property market , where land costs as
much as 27.6 million yen per square meter (10.76 square feet),
the report said.  Japan is the biggest property investment market in  Asia 
with $24.2 billion of commercial real estate transactions last
year, according to Chicago-based Jones Lang LaSalle., the
world’s second-largest commercial real estate brokerage.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  