-- 
Japan Says There’s No Evidence Insurers Are Repatriating Overseas Assets

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-03-17T03:07:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/japan-says-no-evidence-insurers-repatriating-assets-yen-gain-speculative.html
  Japan ’s government said there’s no
evidence that insurance companies are repatriating assets from
abroad and that the yen’s climb today was driven by speculation.  “The speculation was that Japanese life and casualty
insurers will repatriate dollar-denominated assets to secure
funds in wake of the earthquake,” Economic and Fiscal Policy
Minister  Kaoru Yosano  told reporters in  Tokyo  today. “But they
have ample cash, deposits and other liquid assets,” he said,
adding that the Financial Services Agency and  Bank of Japan  have
confirmed insurers aren’t selling their dollar assets.  Policy makers have so far focused on offering intraday cash
to banks, with the central bank limiting its additional monetary
stimulus three days ago to 5 trillion yen, an amount about one-
tenth the size of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s quantitative easing.
Sustained yen strengthening risks eroding exporter earnings,
making a case for officials to intervene, some analysts said.  “With Japan facing a difficult situation, the yen’s rapid
advance could damp its economy further, which is not good for
the global economy,” said  Masafumi Yamamoto , chief currency
strategist at Barclays Bank Plc in Tokyo, saying it’s possible
the Group of Seven could mount joint intervention to sell yen.  Japan’s currency was at 79.26 per dollar as of 11:44 a.m.
in Tokyo, down 4 percent from the high reached earlier today.
It’s advanced 4.6 percent since the close on March 10, a day
before the disaster struck Japan.  Intervention Question  Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  declined to comment on
whether the ministry would order the Bank of Japan to intervene
in the foreign-exchange market, saying that markets were nervous.
A government official speaking on condition of anonymity said
that local institutional investors have abundant yen, and that
repatriation wasn’t significant after the 1995 Kobe earthquake.  Meantime, the central bank pumped 5 trillion yen ($63
billion) into money markets today.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average retreated 2.1 percent,
recouping losses after dropping as much as 5 percent after
trading began. The rout in the equity market has brought the
index’s losses to 16 percent since the magnitude-9 earthquake
and ensuing tsunami on March 11 devastated northeast Japan and
crippled the cooling systems at a nuclear power plant.  The government is still struggling to get the Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear facility under control, with helicopters
dropping water on the plant in an effort to prevent a meltdown.  Break-Even Point  Japan’s exporters said they can remain profitable as long
as the yen trades at 86.30 per dollar or weaker, compared with
the previous year’s breakeven point at 92.90, the Cabinet Office
said in an annual survey released on March 11.  Every one yen the currency appreciates against the dollar
erodes about 30 billion yen from Toyota Motor Co’s earnings,
according to the company. Honda Motor Co, which produces over 70
percent of its vehicles outside Japan, loses 17 billion yen for
each one yen the currency strengthens against the dollar.  Because exporters’ operations are already disrupted at the
moment, yen appreciation may have little immediate effect,
lessening the need for policy makers to act, said  Azusa Kato , an
economist at BNP Paribas SA in Tokyo.  “A stronger yen would actually help companies secure the
goods and supplies they need, especially at the disaster regions,
because it would make imports cheaper,” said Kato. “Stopping
the yen’s gains isn’t the government’s top priority right now.”  Last Intervention  Japan’s government hasn’t ordered the BOJ to sell yen in
the market since Sept. 15, which was the first time Japan
intervened since 2004. That move followed a jump in the yen on
speculation that Prime Minister  Naoto Kan , who had won re-
election as head of the ruling party, would be less likely to
endorse yen sales than his top opponent.  G-7 members haven’t entered the market together since
September 2000, when they sought to buoy the euro as it tumbled
in its second year of existence.  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said on March 13 that he was
prepared to unleash “massive” liquidity to secure stability, a
commitment followed up the next day with a record 15 trillion
yen in one-day cash, with injections diminishing since then.  The central bank in a March 14 policy meeting also decided
to double its asset-purchase program to 10 trillion yen,
including Japanese  government bonds , exchange-traded funds and
real estate investment trusts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  