-- 
Reactor May Be Stable Enough to Start Cleanup in Two Days, Professor Says

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-03-17T18:05:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/japan-reactor-may-be-stable-enough-to-start-cleanup-in-two-days.html
Efforts to cool reactors at  Japan ’s
damaged Fukushima nuclear plant may have succeeded enough to
start cleanup measures in two days, a U.K. professor said.  “In another 48 hours, it should be clear that the water
and steam temperature is low enough to start other cleanup
efforts,” said Roger Crouch, head of the School of Engineering
at Durham University. “It appears it’s getting stabilized. The
biggest challenge is to ensure they are replenishing the water
that covers the fuel assemblies and ensuring the temperature of
the water is sufficiently low.”  Cannons and helicopters were used to douse the plant
yesterday as workers tried to stem radioactive pollution from
the worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl. Some water may have
reached the No. 3 reactor, an official said. Engineers are
working through the night to connect a power cable that may help
get Fukushima’s cooling systems working again.  The threat of radiation spreading from the six-reactor
plant has prompted the U.S. to advise citizens to consider
leaving  Tokyo , 135 miles (220 kilometers) to the south. The
Japanese government has recommended a 20-kilometer evacuation
zone around the plant.  “It’s very unlikely there will be significant levels of
radiation beyond the zone,” Crouch said. “Even then, they
should remain quite low.”  ‘Very Serious’  The UN’s International Atomic Energy Agency said the
situation at the three loaded cores -- reactors No. 1, 2 and 3 -
- has been “relatively stable” in the last 24 hours. All three
units are damaged and don’t have cooling, Director Graham Andrew
said yesterday at a briefing in Vienna. The situation remains
“very serious,” he said.  The more than 320 workers on the site may be hindered by
damaged equipment, said  Mark Hibbs , senior associate at the
Nuclear Policy Program of the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace in Berlin.  “The measuring equipment itself may not be reliable due to
stress in the reactor,” Hibbs said. “If that’s true, it
significantly adds stress to personnel inside. The people who
are managing it are doing God’s work. It’s inconceivable the
scope and the danger of the challenge they face.”  Tokyo Electric Power Co. is working to fix cables to supply
power to the reactor coolant system. The company said yesterday
it would lay one kilometer of new line along a road, a company
official told a press conference in Tokyo broadcast by NHK.  “The reconnection of the electricity supply is very good
news, but it depends on there being water to pump and there
being no major break in the pipes,” said Richard Wakeford, a
professor at the University of Manchester’s  Dalton Nuclear
Institute . “Whether you can supply enough water to the cooling
ponds is very difficult to know.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  