-- 
JPMorgan Stake in Tribune Will Violate FCC Rule, Lawyer Claims at Hearing

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-03-17T18:29:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/jpmorgan-stake-in-tribune-will-violate-fcc-rule-lawyer-claims-at-hearing.html
  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and two hedge-
fund partners would break federal rules limiting media ownership
under their plan to reorganize Tribune Co., delaying the
publisher’s exit from bankruptcy, a lawyer said.  JPMorgan, Angelo Gordon & Co. and Oaktree Capital
Management LP have built stakes in newspaper and broadcast
companies that have come out of bankruptcy in recent years, Mark
Prak, a lawyer who lobbies Congress and the Federal
Communications Commission on behalf of television broadcasters,
said today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  “They will violate the FCC media ownership rules,” Prak
said. “The interest they have will complicate reorganization.”  Prak was testifying on behalf of Aurelius Capital
Management LP, which is opposing a reorganization plan for
Chicago-based Tribune sponsored by JPMorgan, Angelo Gordon and
Oaktree. Aurelius is sponsoring its own plan. U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Kevin J. Carey must decide which of the two plans to
approve.  The noteholder plan would have the same ownership problem,
Ronald Flagg, a lawyer for Tribune, said in court while
questioning Prak. Under either proposal, JPMorgan, Angelo Gordon
and Oaktree would own more than 5 percent each of the newspaper
and television company, according to court records.  Under Tribune’s plan, the three investors would have their
ownership shares converted to non-voting stakes should the FCC
object, according to court records. That kind of change would
probably win FCC approval, Prak said.  Tribune Competition  JPMorgan, based in  New York , and Angelo Gordon claimed in
court filings that their media stakes don’t violate FCC
ownership limitations. The FCC won’t act on Tribune’s request to
transfer its broadcasting licenses to new owners and grant
waivers on various rules until Carey decides between the
reorganization plans.  Angelo Gordon owns as much as 25 percent of Freedom
Communications, whose Orange County Register competes with
Tribune’s largest newspaper, the Los Angeles Times, Prak said.
JPMorgan owns a stake in a company with eight  radio stations  in
the Chicago area that compete with Tribune’s broadcasting arm,
he said. Oaktree co-owns radio stations in  Southern California ,
Prak said.  Those ownership stakes would prompt the FCC to reject
Tribune’s applications unless the investors changed the
company’s proposed ownership structure, Prak said. Adjusting the
reorganization plan to win approval would delay Tribune’s exit
from bankruptcy by six to eight months, he said.  The bankruptcy case is In re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Steven Church} in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 