-- 
Just Imagine Massive Tokyo Quake, 23 Years Later: Michael Lewis

-- B y   M i c h a e l   L e w i s
-- 
2011-03-17T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/just-imagine-big-tokyo-quake-23-years-later-commentary-by-michael-lewis.html
Back in 1988, I left a job on  Wall
Street  to write for a living. Amazed that magazine editors would
pay me to travel anywhere in the world so long as I could
convince them there was a story to be told about the place, I
began casting around for stories about places I wanted to go.
The first place I wanted to go was  Japan .  I proposed to a magazine editor a piece on what would
happen in the world if Tokyo was destroyed by an earthquake. Of
course, I had no idea what might happen if Tokyo was destroyed
by an earthquake and no clue how anyone would even begin to
guess. But I found one of these incredibly generous characters
called magazine editors and asked one of them to send me to
 Tokyo  for a few weeks to ponder the matter. And he did it.  The problem with this approach to the writing life, I soon
found, is that at some point you need to write a story. What I
had imagined more or less as a paid vacation in Tokyo soon
became a sweaty search for an answer to what seemed even to me a
preposterous question: What happens if this new center of global
finance is wiped out?  I got lucky. It turned out that people inside Japanese
government and finance had just begun to ask themselves the same
preposterous question. An imaginative young geologist with
Japan’s National Land Agency named  Hideaki Oda  had just finished
a study in which he simulated a quake similar to the one that
had destroyed Tokyo back in 1923 (and also in 1853, and in 1782,
and in 1703 and in. . .).  Shocking Report  He had estimated loss of both life and property in various
scenarios: time of day the quake occurred, weather conditions,
and so on. A smart Japanese economist named Kaoru Oda, who
worked for the Tokai Bank in Nagoya, had used this report to
estimate the earthquake’s economic consequences.  The details of both reports were shocking. The first Mr.
Oda, in his most likely scenario, described 152,000 deaths,
800,000 collapsed buildings, and about $1 trillion in property
damage.  The second Mr. Oda forecast a dramatic rise of five
percentage points in  interest rates , a collapse in economic
growth and in asset prices -- all in the U.S.  That was the general picture that emerged from these mental
exercises: When the next big one hit, the Japanese would suffer
a great human loss but the financial pain would be felt mainly
abroad, after Japan sold its foreign assets to pay for its
reconstruction.  Catastrophe Insurance  A nation living with a perpetually high risk of natural
catastrophe had in effect bought itself a massive catastrophe
insurance policy. The unwitting seller of that policy had been
us.  There was a lot more in both reports than that, and I won’t
rehash it all here. But it’s interesting to compare what was
imagined might happen 23 years ago with what actually is
happening now.  The real and imagined Tokyo earthquakes are different
events: The real earthquake, though more severe than the
imagined one, dealt Tokyo only a glancing blow; the financial
losses caused by the real quake so far don’t appear to be
anything like $1 trillion; and back in 1988 no one considered
the possibility of nuclear disaster.  The immediate financial-market response to the actual event
is also, at best, a first cousin to the scenario imagined back
in 1988. In the fictional catastrophe, the yen rose dramatically
as the Japanese government and private insurers sold all sorts
of non-yen assets to buy yen, and it is rising now, for
instance.  Spectacular Collapse  But in the imagined scenario, the Japanese stock market
rose in anticipation of a massive stimulus and a glorious
economic future. Just now it is collapsing, spectacularly.  There’s a reason for the difference: The market has a lot
less faith now than it did in 1988 in Japan’s economic future.
The single biggest financial question to arise from the imagined
scenario was: Just how screwed will the U.S. be when Japan asks
for its money back? It now has been joined by another: just how
screwed will Japan be when it reveals that it not only wants but
needs its money back?  That is what leaps out at you from the comparison of the
real catastrophe with the imagined one: how different the
context has become. Back in 1988, it was hard to imagine Japan
working from anything but a position of strength: high savings
rates, massive trade surpluses, a booming economy and stock
market. There was no question then that Japan would bounce back.
Today, Japan feels almost doomed.  Basket Case  The ratio of Japan’s government debt to its gross domestic
product (more than 225 percent) is the highest in the developed
world, almost double that of the next-worst basket case:  Greece .
The Japanese government still owns about $900 billion of U.S.
Treasuries, but less honestly. In effect, the Japanese
government has borrowed huge sums from its own, increasingly
strapped people and used some of that money to fund U.S.
Treasury purchases.  The Japanese population, aging and shrinking, is saving
less and less. The historically biggest buyers of Japanese
 government bonds  -- Japanese government pension plans -- have
recently become net sellers. The country has run through
five finance ministers in the past two years, and in ways that
suggest the job has become a lot less appealing. (One left for
health reasons, another appears to have committed suicide.)  Japanese Default  The Dallas-based hedge fund Hayman Advisors, which has been
betting that Japan will eventually need to default or
restructure, has estimated that a mere three percentage-point
rise in interest rates would leave the government using all of
its  tax revenue  simply to service its debt.  Even before the earthquake, Japan, to balance its books,
was probably going to need to sell a lot of government bonds to
foreigners. And those foreigners probably were going to demand a
far higher rate of interest than Japanese government pension
plans do to hold them. That rate of interest just went up.  In 1988, Japan had the resources to cover a far more
expensive catastrophe. The big question was what financial
effect the event might have on the people who had grown
dependent on Japanese capital.  The financial world felt unstable, and the situation
between America and Japan unsustainable: That was the reason
there was any interest in the first place, to an American
magazine editor, in the consequences of the next big Tokyo
earthquake. Now the Japanese, too, are straining to preserve a
system that is effectively broke.  As fragile and unstable as the financial world looked back
in 1988, to those who tried to imagine the worst, it looks even
less stable and more fragile today. And the worst hasn’t even
happened. For any young magazine writer looking for a free trip
to Japan here’s a tip: The next great Tokyo earthquake is still
long overdue.  ( Michael Lewis , most recently author of the best-selling
“The Big Short,” is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Michael Lewis at  mlewis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  