-- 
Katy Perry Shakes, Mapplethorpe Shocks, Wizard: London Weekend

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-03-18T11:10:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/katie-perry-rocks-mapplethorpe-shocks-wizard-of-oz-redux-london-weekend.html
Katy Perry performs her hits “I
Kissed a Girl” and “Firework” in  London  concerts that combine
disco, rock and racy costume changes.  The pop princess, 26, reprises her chart-topping
“California Gurls” -- originally featuring  Snoop Dogg  -- in
the hope that her stage pizzazz will eclipse her fame as the
wife of comedian  Russell Brand .  Performances run March 17-19. Hammersmith Apollo, Queen
Caroline Street, W6 9QH. Information: +44-844-844-4748;
 http://www.hammersmithapollo.net .  River Cafe, favorite stop for food lovers, is convenient
for the Apollo. The restaurant that brought seasonal Italian
cuisine to London counts TV chef  Jamie Oliver  among its alumni.  Information:  http://www.rivercafe.co.uk , +44-20-7386-4200.  Saturday  “Rotten material” is the label U.S. Senator Jesse Helms
once slapped on the work of Robert Mapplethorpe.  The photographer’s shots of exposed men now star in an
exhibition curated by the Scissor Sisters. Pert bottoms and
bonded males hang alongside derivative works by contemporary
artists -- nude sketches, folding screens, star-shaped mirrors.  Make time for the documentary playing on the chunky old TV
set: Art dealer Leo Castelli and artist Louise Bourgeois
remember what it was like sitting for the senator’s pet peeve.  “Robert Mapplethorpe: Night Work” ends Saturday at the
Alison Jacques Gallery, 16-18 Berners Street, London W1T 3LN.
Information:  http://www.alisonjacquesgallery.com  or +44-20-7631-
4720.  Saturday Night  She’s off to see the Wizard.  Dorothy has a great voice and the cutest dog ever in  Andrew Lloyd Webber ’s new staging of “The Wizard of Oz.” She’s played
by Danielle Hope, who snagged the part in a TV talent contest.  Lloyd Webber has added a few of his own tunes to the
musical’s originals in a lavish production with flying monsters,
spinning huts, and a bouncing yellow brick road.  “The Wizard of Oz” is at the London Palladium.  Information:  http://www.wizardofozthemusical.com  or +44-
844-412-2957.  Sunday  Learn how to compose the perfect cheese platter on your
days off.  The riverside Cheese & Wine Festival offers wine tastings,
mozzarella and parmigiano recipes, and tips on how to match your
Bordeaux with your beef -- free of charge.  The festival runs Friday to Sunday at the Cookery Theatre,
Southbank Centre Square, Belvedere Road, London SE1 8XX.
Information:  http://www.cheesewinefestival.com .  L’Art du Fromage is the obvious restaurant for cheese
lovers in London. This French establishment in Chelsea has it
all -- from Brie de Meaux coated with breadcrumbs; to rump steak
with Roquefort butter; to Emmental, Comte and Beaufort fondue
flambeed in Kirsch. Don’t miss the cheese board.  Information:  http://www.artdufromage.co.uk  or +44-20-7352-
2759.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at  mbeech@bloomberg.net . 