-- 
Kim Is ‘Fearful’ of Losing Control, South Korean Lawmaker Says

-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 
2011-03-17T01:41:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/kim-is-fearful-of-losing-control-south-korean-lawmaker-says.html
North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il 
appears increasingly concerned about internal threats to his
regime as he prepares to hand over power to his son, a South
Korean lawmaker said.  Kim has boosted security around his residences throughout
the country, deploying more weapons in the areas, since pro-
democracy uprisings erupted in the Middle East, said Kwon Young
Se, chairman of the National Assembly’s Intelligence Committee.
The South Korean military and civic groups have used balloons to
drop leaflets into North Korea carrying news of Middle East
unrest.  “Kim must be fearful of insurrection, especially at a time
when his heir remains so young,” Kwon of the ruling  Grand
National Party , said yesterday in an interview in Seoul, citing
a report by the  National Intelligence Service . “It is
questionable if his son, who is so young and inexperienced, can
retain the same kind of control he exerted.”  Kim Jong Un, believed to be 27 or 28, was appointed in
September to the second-highest military post in the Workers’
Party, paving the way for him to become North Korea’s next
leader.  While Kim Jong Il, 69, appears to have recovered from a
2008 stroke, his age, drinking and smoking, and history of
illness suggest he “may not survive for that long,” said Kwon.  “Any conflict within the leadership group could be a
dangerous sign of a regime collapse,” said Kwon, a third-term
lawmaker. “The regime could become unstable during the power
transition, with the new forces behind Kim Jong Un clashing with
the old forces of Kim Jong Il.”  Kim Dynasty  Little is known about Kim Jong Un, who was publicly
mentioned by the state media for the first time in September.  North Korea  has been under dynastic rule by the Kim family for
nearly 63 years since it was founded.  North Korea threatened on Feb. 27 to fire at locations in  South Korea  where balloons carrying leaflets have been released.
Kim’s regime shelled South Korea’s Yeonpyeong Island on Nov. 23
in an attack that killed four people.  The regime’s grip on the military and the difficulties the
North Korean people would face in organizing a revolt make
popular uprisings like those that toppled the Tunisian and
Egyptian presidents unlikely, said Kwon. North Koreans don’t
have access to the Internet, mobile phones and social networks
that helped uprisings in the Middle East, he said.  The government in Pyongyang is “increasing control over
its society to block the influx of outside information,” South
Korean Foreign Minister Kim Sung Hwan told foreign diplomats in  Seoul  on March 3, without elaborating.  North Korea’s state-run Korean Central News Agency hasn’t
reported on the Middle East protests. In North Korea, radios are
pre-tuned to government programs and owning computers without
permission is forbidden, according to a 2010 report by the  United Nations .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  