-- 
Kissel Schemed Before Murdering Husband in Hong Kong, Prosecutor Says

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-03-17T10:57:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/kissel-schemed-for-months-before-murdering-husband-prosecutor-tells-jury.html
  Nancy Kissel  schemed for months
before murdering her Merrill Lynch & Co. banker husband and did
not suffer from a depressive disorder, a prosecutor said.  “The defendant acted with thought, deliberation and
calmness over a period of months, days and weeks,”  David Perry ,
representing  Hong Kong ’s Department of Justice, said today in
the city’s High Court of First Instance in his closing statement
to the jury. “She realizes the only way to avoid responsibility
for murder is to lie.”  Kissel, 46, is being retried after Hong Kong’s highest
court quashed a 2005 murder conviction and ordered a new trial,
ruling the first one was unfair. Hong Kong prosecutors rejected
the expatriate mother of three’s guilty plea to manslaughter in
order to pursue the murder case.  Kissel’s lawyers had argued she suffered from a mental
disorder and was provoked by  Robert Kissel  before she killed him
on Nov. 2, 2003. Defense lawyer  Edward Fitzgerald  called 16
witnesses including psychiatrists and psychologists who said she
likely suffered from a major depressive disorder and battered-
wife syndrome, reducing her responsibility for the killing.  “The defendant was not suffering from a depressive
disorder,” Perry told the nine-member jury, pointing to
evidence that she had an active social life, ran a photography
business and was planning a trip to  San Francisco  for breast
uplift surgery in the days before the murder. “This is another
attempt to deceive you.”  Bludgeoned With Ornament  In the first part of the retrial, which began on Jan. 11,
prosecutors presented evidence to show Nancy Kissel searched
online for prescription sedatives before obtaining four drugs
from two psychiatrists. She blended them in a milkshake for her
husband and, hours later, bludgeoned him with an eight-pound
lead ornament in their bedroom, acts for which Kissel has
accepted responsibility.  Nancy Kissel was having an affair at the time and was the
main beneficiary of the $18 million estate. Robert Kissel was
the head of Merrill’s distressed assets business in  Asia .  Perry called the account of the killing Kissel gave in her
retrial false, saying a confrontation she described with her
husband over the subject of divorce and children, as well as his
handling of a baseball bat which prompted her to pick up the
lead ornament, were “inventions.”  The prosecution lawyer argued the account of a psychiatrist,
Dr. C.K. Wong, that the five blows Kissel dealt to her husband’s
head could have been part of a frenzied attack, was unrealistic.  “Those blows were aimed at an area that was 14 centimeters
by 8 centimeters,” Perry said. “That is consistent with a
person acting with purpose.”  Kissel was sentenced to life in prison in 2005. A
manslaughter conviction may mean a sentence of eight to 12 years,
her lawyers have said. She has already served more than six
years.  The case is HKSAR v. Nancy Ann Kissel, HCCC55/2010 in Hong
Kong’s  High Court  of First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  