-- 
Korean Won Drops to 2011 Low as Japan Radiation Risk Worsens; Bonds Slip

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-03-17T07:02:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/korean-won-drops-to-2011-low-as-japan-radiation-risk-worsens-bonds-slip.html
  South Korea ’s won slumped to its
weakest level this year as a worsening crisis at a nuclear power
plant in  Japan  prompted investors to favor safer bets than
emerging-market assets.  Foreign governments began evacuating citizens from  Tokyo 
and Korean Air Lines Co. said it would fly two Boeing Co. 747s
Tokyo’s Narita airport today as Asiana Airlines Inc. added a
flight from the Japanese capital to  Seoul . In South Korea, the
biggest source of visitors for Japan, about 11,000 customers of
Hana Tour Service Inc. canceled trips after the earthquake, said
Cho Il Sang, a company spokesman.  “The situation in Japan is getting worse and foreign
governments are evacuating their people from Tokyo,” said  Thomas Harr , Singapore-based head of Asian foreign-exchange
strategy at Standard Chartered Plc. “The developments in Japan
are very negative for emerging Asia, especially for Northeast
Asia due to the growth impact and economic impact.”  The won slid 0.4 percent to 1,135.13 per dollar at the 3
p.m. close in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
reached 1,144 earlier, the weakest level since Dec. 30.  The U.K. government yesterday urged British nationals
living in Tokyo and to the north of the city to consider leaving
the area. France is making two government aircraft available to
its citizens who want to leave Japan, Le Figaro reported
yesterday, citing a statement on the Foreign Affairs Ministry
website in an Agence France-Presse report.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell 1.4 percent after the
head of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission said yesterday
Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant is releasing “extremely
high” levels of radiation that could be life-threatening. The
yen touched a post-World War II high of 76.36 per dollar on
speculation the nation’s insurers and investors will redeem
overseas assets to pay for damages.  South Korea’s three-year government bonds declined for the
first time in nine days. The yield on the 3 percent note due
December 2013 rose nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point,
to 3.67 percent, according to prices from Korea Stock Exchange.
Yesterday’s closing level was the lowest in two months. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Lui at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at   lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 