-- 
Nabucco Aims to Start Commercial Gas Shipments in Late 2015

-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-17T16:34:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/nabucco-aims-to-start-commercial-gas-shipments-in-late-2015-1-.html
Nabucco Gas Pipeline International
GmbH, the planned link to carry natural gas from the  Caspian Sea 
to  Europe , may start commercial shipments in late 2015,
Managing Director Reinhard Mitschek said today in Ankara.  The OMV AG-led project aims to deliver fuel via Turkey,
bypassing Russia as part of the so-called Southern Corridor,
supported by the U.S. and European Union. Nabucco is vying with
projects backed by Norway’s Statoil ASA and Italy’s Edison SpA
for gas from the BP Plc-led Shah Deniz venture in Azerbaijan.
Russia has also sought to boost purchases of Azeri gas as it
competes for European market share.  Russia may replace the section of its planned South Stream
pipeline across the  Black Sea  to Europe with a liquefied natural
gas plant, Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin  said yesterday.
Turkey has provided OAO Gazprom, Russia’s gas export monopoly,
with only an initial permit to study the route through its
waters, and the final construction permit was supposed to be
granted in November, he said.  “We don’t understand the reason why we haven’t gotten the
approval,” Sechin said.  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  and Turkish Prime
Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan didn’t discuss the Black Sea LNG
project during a meeting yesterday, Sechin said. The plan would
require tankers to pass through Turkey’s crowded Bosporus to
reach existing terminals.  “Why discuss something we can do on our own?” Sechin
said. “This was resolved a hundred years ago.”  The volume of energy traffic through the Bosporus is
already unsafe for Istanbul’s population of 12 million, Turkish
Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz  said on Jan. 7. Turkish authorities
are consulting oil and shipping companies on ways to reduce
traffic and make bypass pipelines more economically feasible, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Bryant at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net  