-- 
Nasdaq to Add Risk-Tracking Options in Market-Share Battle

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-03-17T21:52:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/nasdaq-to-add-risk-tracking-options-in-market-share-battle-1-.html
  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  plans to
introduce options based on 19  indexes  tracking how stocks are
performing versus specific exchange-traded funds, according to a
company executive.  Nasdaq OMX will start trading options on what it calls a
set of “alpha indexes” that let investors speculate companies
such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  will rise or fall more than ETFs like the  SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust (SPY) , Thomas Wittman, president of Nasdaq
OMX’s options business, said today at a Futures Industry
Association conference in Boca Raton,  Florida .  U.S. options exchanges are introducing products as they
battle for market share in an increasingly competitive business.
Paul Finnegan, senior vice president at NYSE Euronext and co-
chief executive officer at NYSE Arca Options, said some may hurt
the equity derivatives industry by reducing transparency.  “Everyone is trying to develop a way to attract order flow
and come up with a competitive advantage,” he said. While
Nasdaq OMX’s new options are products for investors to trade,
Bats Global Markets and the  International Securities Exchange 
have invented new types of orders that “allow only certain
players to engage in the trades,” he said. “They’re pushing
the boundaries of what’s really good for the industry.”  Derivatives Volume  Equity derivatives volume last year rose 8 percent to 3.9
billion contracts, the eighth-straight  annual record , according
to Chicago-based  OCC , formerly called the Options Clearing Corp.
The  Chicago Board Options Exchange , the largest individual
market, last year had less than 29 percent of volume, down from
45 percent in 2000.  Executives representing eight of the nine exchanges said at
the conference today that they expect up to three more options
venues by 2014.  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  William Brodsky  said there may be 10, while Bats Global
Markets and NYSE officials predicted 12 in five years. In 2000
there were five.  CBOE Holdings runs the all-electronic C2 market in addition
to CBOE to appeal to different customers through different
trading rules and transaction prices. New York-based Nasdaq OMX
and  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  also each run two that are targeted to
different groups of participants.  “Consolidation for the sake of consolidation” isn’t the
goal, Wittman said. “We’re looking for alternative revenue.”  Block Trades  The ISE, operator of the biggest all-electronic options
market in the U.S., won a 20-month fight against rivals with
trading floors last month, convincing the Securities and
Exchange Commission to allow certain block transactions without
requiring that they be shown to other traders.  The regulator  approved  the ISE’s so-called qualified
contingent cross, or QCC, proposal on Feb. 24 over objections
from CBOE and NYSE Euronext, which said the trades would harm
the options market. New York-based ISE is owned in part by
Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , which said on Feb. 15 it
would combine with NYSE Euronext to form the world’s largest
operator of securities and derivatives markets.  “This is not the right path to go down,” Finnegan said.
ISE’s QCC is “slowly starting” a shift toward so-called trade
reporting facilities, which allow brokers to report equity
trades arranged away from exchanges. This doesn’t happen in
options because OCC requires all trades it clears to be executed
on exchanges.  Multi-Leg Trades  The QCC orders are multi-leg trades of related securities
involving stock and options with a minimum of 1,000 contracts.
In these transactions, the price or execution of one component
depends on the price or execution of another. Prearranged trades
by broker-dealers are usually brought for execution and
potential price improvement to CBOE,  Nasdaq  OMX PHLX, NYSE Amex
or NYSE Arca, all of which operate floors.  “Let’s not point to QCC and say that that’s a new way of
doing these trades,” Gary Katz, chief executive officer of the
ISE, said in response to criticism by other exchange executives.
“That’s exactly how they’re done today.”  Bats  asked  the SEC in December for permission to create a
“directed order program” that allows market makers to offer
some customers better prices than what they display publicly.  Since it’s available to only some of a market maker’s
customers, the best price at which that firm is willing to trade
is hidden from most participants, flouting current conventions
requiring the display of orders in the options market, Nasdaq’s
Wittman said.  “We’re trying to bring relationships that exist today on
classic exchanges between market makers and order-sending firms
to a more transparent, more efficient marketplace,” said
Jeromee Johnson, vice president for market development and head
of Bats Options. Criticisms of the order type are based on
“competitive positioning” by other exchanges, he said.  Efforts by exchanges to introduce new products and trading
mechanisms are efforts to adapt to a changing business that’s
become more competitive because of technology and greater
interest in options trading, Johnson said.  “We’ve barely scratched the surface of what the options
industry can be,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  Boca Raton , Florida, at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  