-- 
NCAA Should Alter Payout to Reward Academics, Knight Commission Study Says

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-03-17T13:45:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/ncaa-should-alter-payout-to-reward-academics-knight-commission-study-says.html
The  National Collegiate Athletic
Association  should alter its payouts for the men’s basketball
tournament to reward schools with higher graduation rates,
according to the  Knight Foundation Commission on Intercollegiate
Athletics .  The commission said in a report that men’s college
basketball teams tracking to graduate fewer than 50 percent of
their athletes received payouts totaling $179 million for
participating in the sport’s postseason tournament the past five
seasons. It also recommended that schools that are tracking to
graduate less than 50 percent of their team members be barred
from competing.  The commission is a non-profit group that includes current
and former university presidents whose goal is to emphasize
academics in college sports.  The NCAA tournament gets under way in full force today
after four games earlier this week.  U.S. Secretary of Education  Arne Duncan, a former co-
captain of the Harvard University men’s basketball team,
endorsed the commission’s recommendations.  “It’s time to end rewarding teams millions of dollars for
winning basketball games when they are failing to graduate their
players,” Duncan said in a news release. “I join the Knight
Commission in advocating a reward system that recognizes teams
that meet minimal academic standards.”  The $179 million payout represented 44 percent of the total
$409 million paid, the Knight Commission said in the statement.  NCAA spokesman Bob Williams said the Knight Commission
payout estimates are too high. The governing body estimates that
no more than 20 percent of postseason funds are paid to programs
tracking to graduate fewer than 50 percent of their athletes.  Better Academic Performance  He said the NCAA also wants better academic performance,
especially for teams playing in the postseason.  “Our governance bodies are currently exploring ways to
improve academics, particularly related to initial eligibility
standards,” Williams said. “This will ensure that students are
better prepared to be successful in the classroom when they
arrive on campus. We hope to collaborate with the Department of
Education to improve college preparation for all students,
including those who may become student-athletes.”  The Knight Commission said 10 of the 68 men’s basketball
programs in this year’s NCAA tournament would be ineligible
under its benchmarks, without identifying the teams.  “While the NCAA has taken important first steps, the
current standards remain too low,” said Knight Commission Co-
Chairman R. Gerald Turner, the president of  Southern Methodist
University . “The financial rewards for winning cannot continue
to far outweigh the penalties for academic failings.”  The commission first advocated a 50 percent graduation rate
benchmark for postseason eligibility in 2001, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  