-- 
Nestle Tames Volatile Commodities With Upscale Coffee, Ice Cream

-- B y   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 
2011-03-17T21:00:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/nestle-tames-volatile-commodities-with-upscale-coffee-ice-cream.html
When then-26-year-old Paul Bulcke
moved to  Peru  in 1980 to help market Maggi bouillon for food
giant  Nestle SA (NESN) , it wasn’t a plum assignment.  Hyperinflation was battering the country’s economy, forcing
the Swiss company to raise prices almost every other day. Some
months, inflation reached 1,000 percent. Then the Andean nation
in 1985 froze prices at a time when shops were offering holiday
discounts.  “There’s no business school that can prepare you for
that,” said Bulcke, now 56 and Nestle’s chief executive
officer. “What you learn there is how to reconnect the dots
very fast.”  Bulcke is again using the quick­response skills he honed in
Latin America, this time to cope with the volatility in food and
raw material costs that’s buffeting the world’s largest food and
beverage company, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its March 21
issue. Few corporations are more exposed to the vicissitudes of
fast-changing commodity prices than the maker of everything from
Crunch chocolate bars to Nescafe coffee to Purina pet food.  Nestle spends more than $30 billion a year on raw
materials, buying about 10 percent of the world’s coffee crop,
12 million metric tons of milk and more than 300,000 tons of
cocoa. Costs for those ingredients have been anything but
stable.  “Have you seen the sugar prices? Have you seen grain
prices? Have you seen milk prices?” Bulcke asks.  Commodities Double  Almost every one of its major commodities has at least
doubled within the past four years -- Arabica coffee just in the
past 12 months. Nestle expects its raw materials bill to rise by
as much as $3 billion this year, its biggest increase ever. The  International Monetary Fund  said this month that it may take
years before agricultural output increases enough to put a
substantial dent in worldwide food prices.  That’s pushed Belgian-born Bulcke to craft a strategy that
doesn’t depend on commodity prices falling. Instead, he’s
working to squeeze costs out of operations while raising prices
and introducing more upscale, higher-margin products in which
raw material costs account for a smaller portion of the retail
price.  Bulcke aims for a steady stream of gradual price increases,
regardless of whether ingredient costs rise or fall. For
example, when milk powder peaked at around $5,500 a ton in 2007
and 2008 and later dropped to $1,800, Nestle didn’t rush to
lower the prices of its products. It worked on the assumption
that milk prices would eventually return to somewhere between
$3,000 and $3,500 a ton, Bulcke says. Today, milk powder is back
to about $4,200.  Talking to Farmers  To provide guidance on where prices are headed, Nestle
relies on close contact with the 600,000 farmers who supply
wheat, sugar, corn, and the other products needed to make brands
including KitKat, Lean Cuisine, Dreyer’s, and Nescafe. They
helped Nestle foresee that burgeoning populations and economies
in emerging markets would lead to a boom in food commodity
prices back in 2005, Bulcke says. So the company started
gradually raising prices then, getting a head start on rivals.  “If you’re number 340 in the row knocking on the door of
the retailer, he starts getting tired of price increases,” the
CEO says.  Still, to hold onto customers, Nestle tries to absorb much
of higher raw material costs by educating farmers globally on
ways to boost crop yields, and by wringing out internal savings.
The company has reduced the amount of plastic in bottles of
Poland Spring water by 35 percent over the past four years,
reducing its exposure to PET plastic prices, which rose 23
percent last year. Nestle has cut its use of packaging materials
by 518,000 metric tons in the past two decades.  $1.5 Billion Savings  In all, Nestle realized $1.5 billion in savings last year
and aims for more this year, which should offset half its
increase in costs, Bulcke says. It expects to limit ingredient
cost hikes in 2011 to between 8 percent and 10 percent. Without
Nestle’s cost management, Nomura estimates, they would rise
about 12 percent.  Creating premium products is another way Nestle minimizes
the impact of commodity prices. By packaging its highest quality
coffee in single-serve capsules for its Nespresso coffee
machines, Nestle charges about 10 times the price per cup that
rivals ask for unground beans. Nespresso is now a $3 billion
business growing at more than 20 percent annually, and Nestle
has introduced a slew of similar machines to try to repeat the
success. It’s rolling out high-margin brewing systems for
cappuccino and even tea.  Expensive Ice Cream  Likewise, Nestle in  Europe  is rolling out Moevenpick, a
gourmet ice cream with flavors such as coconut and lemon­grass.
It sells in small portions at the equivalent of about $15 a
quart.  The Swiss company has turned its higher-margin Pure Life
bottled water into the world’s largest water brand, evidence
that its upmarket strategy can work even in emerging markets
like  Pakistan . And with its 2006 purchase of Jenny Craig, the
diet advice company, Nestle moved even further away from
dependence on commodities.  The premium focus across the company means that when Nestle
does have to swallow higher commodity costs, it’s hurt less than
many rivals since its brands command price premiums on their
names alone, Bulcke says. That means ingredients account for a
smaller percentage of their retail price.  “Private label is raw material cost with a markup,”
Bulcke says. “As the raw material cost increases, they are much
harder hit than branded products.”  Like those sold by Nestle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  