-- 
New Orleans Police Misconduct Violated Law, U.S. Says

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 
2011-03-17T19:28:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/new-orleans-police-misconduct-violated-u-s-law-justice-department-says.html
(Corrects first paragraph to remove reference to police-
involved shootings.)  The New Orleans Police Department
has engaged in a pattern of “unconstitutional conduct,”
including the use of excessive force by officers and illegal
searches and arrests, a U.S.  Justice Department  review found.  Leadership failures left the department with “deeply
rooted” problems that have impaired its ability to protect
public safety, Deputy Attorney General  James Cole  said today in
a statement.  “Poor policies, non-existent training and inadequate
leadership have led to these systemic problems,” Cole said.  The 10-month review of the department’s operations,
requested by Mayor Mitch Landrieu, includes recommendations
aimed at transforming a force that has faced calls for reform
since the police-related killings of four residents in 1980. An
independent monitor will likely be appointed to ensure the
recommendations are implemented, Police Chief Ronal Serpas said
today at a press conference in New Orleans.  “There will be federal-court oversight,” he said.    New Orleans  officers practiced racial and ethnic profiling,
discriminated against gays and lesbians, and repeatedly failed
to investigate sexual assault and domestic violence reports,
according to the Justice Department.  Recruitment and evaluation systems are flawed, and the
department’s program allowing officers to have off-duty jobs is
“an aorta for corruption,” Thomas E. Perez, an assistant
attorney general in the Justice Department’s civil-rights
division, said at the press conference.  Off-Duty Work  The program lets off-duty officers provide security for
private businesses and other entities while using New Orleans
Police Department uniforms, radios and marked cars. Members of
the force routinely put such private assignments ahead of public
duties, the Justice Department found.  Reviewers also highlighted defects in the department’s K-9
unit, citing dogs “uncontrollable to the point where they
repeatedly attacked their own handlers.”  The department is under scrutiny in more than a half dozen
federal criminal investigations. One focuses on the 2005
shootings of six unarmed people on the Danziger Bridge shortly
after  Hurricane Katrina  flooded most of the city. Two
individuals died in the attack while four others were wounded.  Five New Orleans officers have pleaded guilty to criminal
charges stemming from an attempted cover-up of the incident.
Four of their former colleagues are preparing to stand trial for
the killings in June.  Life Maximum  The government alleges two police supervisors joined the
officers in a conspiracy to make the shootings appear justified.
The officers accused of civil-rights violations face maximum
life sentences if convicted, prosecutors said.  In December, three New Orleans officers were convicted of
federal civil-rights violations stemming from the shooting death
of an unarmed black man, whose body was burned inside a car
officers stole from a citizen who brought the wounded man to a
police station after Katrina.  The Justice Department previously monitored the force in
the mid-1990s, after a  Federal Bureau of Investigation  probe
found corrupt officers working with drug dealers to arrange the
murder of a witness in a police-brutality case.  Federal officials ended a nine-year review of the
department in 2002 at the request of then-Mayor Ray Nagin.  The criminal case over the bridge shootings is U.S. v.
Bowen, 2:10-cr-00204, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware  at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at 
 allenmct@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 