-- 
New Zealand’s Deficit Likely to Widen to $12 Billion on Quake

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-03-17T01:21:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/new-zealand-s-deficit-likely-to-widen-to-12-billion-on-quake.html
New Zealand’s  budget deficit  is
likely to swell to NZ$16 billion ($12 billion) this year as the
Christchurch earthquake cuts revenue and delays a return to
surplus until 2016, Finance Minister Bill English said.  “The quake, combined with other factors, is still expected
to leave nominal gross domestic product a cumulative NZ$15
billion lower over the five years to 2015,” English said in the
text of a speech today in Wellington. “The resulting loss of  tax revenue  could be between NZ$3 billion to NZ$5 billion over
the five years.”  New Zealand’s consumer confidence plunged to the lowest
level in two years this quarter after the nation’s deadliest
earthquake since 1931 hurt sentiment. The central bank last week
cut the benchmark interest rate by half a percentage point to
2.5 percent and pledged to keep borrowing costs low until
rebuilding from the quake revives an economy near recession.  “The government’s immediate response will be to issue more
debt,” English said today. “On one level, this is out of
necessity. We started paying the recovery and reconstruction
bills immediately, whereas changes to spending and tax programs
take time.”    New Zealand ’s dollar touched 71.30 U.S. cents today, the
lowest level since Sept. 2, and has fallen the past four days.
It traded at 72.10 cents at 1:58 p.m. in Wellington.  Net debt could exceed 30 percent of GDP by June 2014, up
from about 28 percent in the December update, preliminary budget
forecasts would suggest based on current policy, English said
today. “That’s a rapid increase from around 14 percent in June
2010,” he said.  Deficit Revised  The government had previously forecast the 2011 budget
deficit at NZ$11.1 billion.  More than 160 people died, making the quake the deadliest
since 256 perished after a temblor struck the North Island city
of Napier 80 years ago.  The economy showed signs of slowing before the quake, with
risks that the nation fell into a recession in the second half
of 2010. GDP contracted in the third quarter partly because of a
less damaging earthquake in Christchurch in September.    Reserve Bank  of New Zealand Governor Alan Bollard said
after this month’s policy decision that the economy may shrink
in the first quarter because of the magnitude 6.3 quake last
month.  New Zealand’s consumer confidence index declined to 97.9
this quarter from 108.3 three months earlier,  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  and McDermott Miller Ltd. said today. A reading less than
100 means pessimists outnumbered optimists.  Even so, English sounded a note of optimism on the economy,
noting the RBNZ last week forecast GDP growth to peak at more
than 5 percent next year and unemployment to fall below 5
percent.  “Our economy has the capacity to absorb the impact of the
quake and I am optimistic about its potential once the recovery
starts to kick in,” English said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  