-- 
Nike Falls as Profit Trails Estimates First Time Since 2006

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-03-17T21:25:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/nike-s-third-quarter-profit-misses-analysts-estimates-after-higher-costs.html
Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s largest
sporting goods company, reported third-quarter profit that
missed analysts’ estimates, the first in  19 straight quarters ,
amid higher costs. The shares fell as much as 6.5 percent.  Net income rose to $523 million, or $1.08 a share, in the
third quarter ended Feb. 28, from $497 million, or $1.01, a year
earlier, the Beaverton, Oregon-based company said today in a
statement. Analysts  projected  $1.12 a share, the average of 12
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Nike, led by Chief Executive Officer Mark Parker, is
grappling with higher costs for cotton, labor and
transportation, which the company projected may reduce profit
margins this year. Gross margin, the difference between sales
and cost of goods, narrowed 1.1 percent points in the quarter.  “Margins were softer than expected,” Matt Arnold, an
analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in Des Peres, Missouri, said in an
interview. “It’s surprising given the streak they had,” said
Jones, who has a “buy” rating on the shares.  Nike  fell  as much as $5.51 to $79.90 in extended trading
after gaining 59 cents to $85.41 at 4 p.m. in regular New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  Orders for the Nike brand from March to July increased 9
percent for a total of $7.9 billion, excluding currency
fluctuations. That missed the average estimate of four analysts
for a gain of 9.8 percent.  Total revenue rose 7.3 percent to $5.08 billion. Analysts
 projected  $5.2 billion, the average of 11 estimates. Sales in
North America, Nike’s largest market, advanced 9.3 percent $1.84
billion.  Japan Sales  The damage caused by the earthquake in Japan will affect
Nike’s sales in a region that has been underperforming, Chris Svezia, an analyst for Susquehanna Financial Group in New York,
said in an interview before the results. Sales from  Japan 
declined 8.5 percent to $195 million in the third quarter.  In Japan “no one is going to be focused at the moment on
buying athletic footwear and apparel,” said Svezia, who has a
“neutral” rating on Nike shares. “The flipside is there could
be a surge six months from now when people need to replenish.”  Nike is assessing the impact to its operations and
monitoring the situation closely, Derek Kent, a spokesman, said
in an e-mailed statement on March 14. The company doesn’t
disclose how many stores it has per country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  