-- 
Stocks Rise on Japan Efforts to Curb Crisis; Materials Jump Most Since ’09

-- B y   N i c k   B a k e r   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-03-17T20:13:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/nikkei-225-drops-yen-climbs-to-record-as-japan-radiation-risk-increases.html
Stocks rose, halting the biggest
three-day drop in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since August,
as Japan moved closer to restoring power at a nuclear plant and  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  forecast more profit than analysts estimated. Oil
jumped as commodities rallied the most since September 2009.  The S&P 500 rose 1.3 percent to 1,273.72 at 4 p.m. in New
York and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 1.9 percent. Oil
advanced 3.5 percent to $101.42 a barrel in New York and the
S&P/GSCI Index of 24 raw materials surged 3.4 percent, the most
in 17 months. The yen touched a post-World War II peak of 76.36
per  U.S. dollar . Yields on 10-year Treasuries increased eight
basis points to 3.25 percent, ending a three-day slide.  Engineers are working through the night in Japan to connect
a power cable that may help get the cooling system at Tokyo
Electric Power Co.’s Fukishima nuclear plant working again.
Group of Seven officials will meet tomorrow to discuss the
threat from the 9-magnitude earthquake in  Japan , raising the
prospect of coordinated action to prevent the disaster from
crippling the world’s third-largest economy. Commodities jumped
as violence in  Libya  escalated.  “Everybody is focused on Japan,” said  David Kelly , who
helps oversee $450 billion as chief market strategist at
JPMorgan Funds in New York. “If any solution could be found,
the crisis suddenly gets less severe, then you’d expect to get a
bounce in markets.”  Six-Day Slump  The Stoxx Europe 600 lost 7 percent during a six-day losing
streak between March 8 and yesterday following the worst
Japanese earthquake on record and the resulting tsunami, along
with concern that anti-government protests in Libya and the
Middle East will drive  oil prices  higher. The  S&P 500  fell 4.9
percent during the same period.  Water cannons may have had some success in cooling one
reactor at the Fukishima facility, while the United Nations
nuclear agency said the situation remained “very serious.”
Cannons and helicopters were used to douse the plant as workers
tried to stem radioactive pollution from the worst nuclear
accident since Chernobyl. Some water may have reached the No. 3
reactor, a Tokyo Electric official said.  Energy, raw-material and industrial stocks led the S&P
500’s rally among 10 industries, climbing at least 1.7 percent.  FedEx rose as much as 6 percent, the most intraday since
July, after saying fiscal fourth-quarter profit may be as high
as $1.83 a share, compared with the average analyst estimate of
$1.66. The largest cargo airline is benefiting from higher
pricing as the economy improves and said it may add more flights
to Japan to accommodate rebuilding materials and aid supplies
after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  Banks Rally  Financial shares gained in the U.S. after a person briefed
on the matter said the  Federal Reserve  will tell some of the
largest U.S. banks tomorrow whether it has approved their plans
to pay dividends and buy back shares. The person asked not to be
identified because the planned notifications aren’t public.  Barbara Hagenbaugh , a spokeswoman at the Federal Reserve,
declined to comment.  Bank of America Corp. climbed 2.1 percent, JPMorgan Chase &
Co. rose 1.7 percent and Citigroup Inc. advanced 1.4 percent.  The S&P 500 will fall to 1,232 by the end of the month,
marking the bottom of a “modest correction,” said Birinyi
Associates Inc., which cited data measuring average drops of at
least 5 percent since 1945. The decrease would represent a 2
percent retreat from yesterday’s close of 1,256.88. When the S&P
500 loses 5 percent during a rallying period, the decline lasts
an average of 41 days and extends to 8.3 percent, according the
Westport, Connecticut-based research and money-management firm.  Corn, Copper  Commodities advanced. Wheat, natural gas, corn, nickel,
cotton, soybeans, sugar and copper rose more than 3.3 percent in
U.S. trading.  Oil futures rose as high as $101.99 a barrel in  New York .
Exxon Mobil Corp., the world’s largest producer by market value,
rallied 2.3 percent for the biggest advance in a month. The fuel
rallied on concern unrest in northern  Africa  and the Middle East
will spread, reducing shipments from the region.  The U.S. signaled it favored allowing foreign intervention
against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s forces. Bahrain declared
a three-month state of emergency on March 15. Qaddafi said his
forces will begin the assault on Benghazi, the rebel capital, in
a few hours. Speaking on state television, he said he would
pardon those who surrender and show “no mercy” to those who
resist him. The “decisive hour” has come, he said.  Yen Strengthens  The yen strengthened against the dollar on speculation
Japan will delay intervention to limit the currency’s advance as
the nation struggles to avert disaster at a nuclear-power plant.
Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said Group of Seven officials
will meet tomorrow to discuss last week’s earthquake in Japan.
The Swiss franc strengthened on demand for a haven and higher-
yielding currencies, such as the  New Zealand dollar , fell.  Japan’s currency advanced to 110.70 per euro from 110.62,
after climbing to 106.61, the strongest since Sept. 13. The euro
appreciated 0.8 percent to $1.4017, after rising to $1.4053, the
highest since Nov. 8.  Treasuries fell as jobless claims fell, consumer prices
climbed more than forecast and Philadelphia-area manufacturing
expanded at the fastest pace since 1984. The 10-year note yield
touched 3.14 percent, the lowest level since Dec. 8.  The cost to protect U.S. corporate bonds from default fell
from a three-month high. The Markit CDX North America Investment
Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 1.9
basis points to a mid-price of 89.8 basis points as of 1:54 p.m.
in New York, according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Baker in New York at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 