-- 
Nissan in Talks to Buy 25% of Russia’s AvtoVAZ to Gain Control

-- B y   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-03-18T16:28:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/nissan-in-talks-to-buy-25-of-russia-s-avtovaz-to-gain-control.html
Nissan Motor Co.,  Japan ’s third-
largest carmaker, is in talks to buy more than 25 percent of OAO  AvtoVAZ (AVAZ)  to secure control of the Russian carmaker with partner  Renault SA. (RNO)   Nissan is discussing with AvtoVAZ shareholders  Troika
Dialog  and Russian Technologies Corp. to acquire the stake over
several years, Serguei Skvortsov, Troika Dialog’s managing
director, said late yesterday by phone. Renault will continue to
hold its blocking stake in AvtoVAZ, he said.    Carlos Ghosn ’s Renault-Nissan alliance is moving to take a
majority holding in the maker of Lada vehicles after the French
partner’s $1 billion purchase of a 25 percent stake in 2008.
Ghosn, who is chief executive officer of both Renault and
Nissan, said in November the alliance will seek control of the
carmaker to capitalize of the country’s growing auto market.  “It may be a signal that the production focus of AvtoVAZ
may change to an equal presence of Renault and Nissan models on
the conveyer belt,” said Elena Sakhnova, an analyst VTB Capital
in Moscow. “Before this, it seemed that AvtoVAZ was focused on
Renault.”  Nissan is likely to pay a figure close to the market price
for a 25 percent stake, currently 10.1 billion rubles ($350
million), Sakhnova said.  AvtoVAZ surged 8 percent to 30.4 rubles, the most since
Nov. 17 at the 6:45 p.m. close in Moscow trading.  Russian Demand  As the western European car market braces for another year
of shrinkage, manufacturers are seeking partnerships in  Russia .
Passenger-car sales may reach 3 million by 2014 to surpass  Germany  as  Europe ’s biggest auto market, Alexey Rakhmanov, head
of the ministry’s automotive department, said last month.  Negotiations to increase the alliance’s holding are
continuing and a final decision hasn’t been made, Renault
spokeswoman Oxana Nazarova said. Nissan spokeswoman Tatjana
Natarova declined to comment.  Renault, which has its headquarters in the Paris suburb of
Boulogne-Billancourt, is upgrading AvtoVAZ’s sprawling plant in
Togliatti to assemble models for all three carmakers. Renault
also owns 43 percent of Yokohama-based Nissan.  “It doesn’t really matter which of the Renault-Nissan
alliance members will have more shares of AvtoVAZ,” Sakhnova
said.  Stake Valuation  The parties haven’t agreed on the value of the AvtoVAZ
stake or the time period in which Nissan may gain the stake,
Skvortsov said. Troika and Russian Technologies each own 25
percent of AvtoVAZ.  Troika may eventually sell all of its holding, while
Russian Technologies plans to buy new stock in AvtoVAZ to keep
its stake at 25 percent, Russian Technologies’ Chief Executive
Officer  Sergei Chemezov  said Nov. 19.  Russian Technologies aims to reach an agreement with the
Renault-Nissan alliance on AvtoVAZ by the middle of the summer
after Nissan completes due diligence, a Russian Technologies
official said today, declining to be identified by name because
the discussions are private. The companies want to close the
deal by year’s end, he said.  Renault and Nissan will together hold 50 percent plus one
share of AvtoVAZ, with Nissan likely having slightly less than a
blocking stake, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net  