-- 
No Indication of Risks to Food Safety From Japan, UN Says

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 
2011-03-17T16:48:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/no-indication-of-risks-to-food-safety-from-japan-un-says-1-.html
There is no evidence of  food-safety 
risks linked to exports from  Japan , where radioactive pollution
is spreading from a stricken nuclear power plant, the  United
Nations  said.  “Food-safety concerns are restricted to food from the
affected zone around the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power
plant,” the UN’s Food and Agriculture Organization  said  in a
report today. “Given the reported safety measures, it would be
unlikely that food production or harvesting is taking place in
the evacuated area.”    South Korea , Indonesia and  Thailand  are among Asian nations
that moved to screen products imported from Japan following
explosions at the plant. The European Union today recommended
more controls on agricultural products from Japan. Japan is not
a leading food exporter, the FAO said.  Food surfaces may become contaminated by deposits of
radioactive materials from air or water, while over time
radioactivity can penetrate foods from soil or water, according
to the UN agency.  Food and livestock in radiation-exposed zones may be
protected by keeping them under cover, the FAO said. In the
“medium term,” people in “seriously contaminated” areas
should protect themselves by avoiding locally produced milk or
vegetables and refraining from fishing, hunting or gathering
forest foods, it said.  Cooling Systems  The magnitude-9 earthquake that hit March 11 sparked a 7-
meter (23-foot) tsunami that engulfed the northeast coast. The
temblor and wave knocked out cooling systems at  Tokyo  Electric
Power Co.’s Fukushima plant, with explosions damaging three out
of its six reactors. Tokyo Electric said today efforts to use
water cannons and helicopters to cool the plant may have had
some success.  The U.S., U.K. and  Australia  raised their alert levels,
while Blackstone Group LP and BNP Paribas SA were among
companies that shifted operations from Tokyo, which lies about
135 miles to the south.  Taiwan is screening passengers from Japan and detected 25
with “very low” and “unharmful” levels of radiation as of
11:30 p.m. yesterday, the Health Physics Section of the Atomic
Energy Council said. The clothing and belongings were
decontaminated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 