-- 
Noda Says Markets Nervous as Bank of Japan Injects $63 Billion Into System

-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-03-17T01:27:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/noda-says-markets-nervous-as-bank-of-japan-injects-63-billion-into-system.html
Japan’s Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said that markets are nervous as the yen reached its
strongest level in the postwar era, while the central bank
pumped 5 trillion yen ($63 billion) into money markets.  Noda declined to comment on whether the ministry would
order the  Bank of Japan  to intervene in the foreign-exchange
markets, after the yen climbed as high as 76.36 per dollar. The
currency rose amid speculation Japanese investors will
repatriate assets as the costs of the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami escalate. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average slid 4 percent as
of 9:45 a.m.  Policy makers have so far focused on offering intraday cash
to banks, with the central bank limiting its additional monetary
stimulus three days ago to 5 trillion yen, an amount about one-
tenth the size of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s quantitative easing.
A government official speaking on condition of anonymity said
that local institutional investors have abundant yen, and that
repatriation wasn’t significant after the 1995 Kobe earthquake.  “With  Japan  facing a difficult situation, the yen’s rapid
advance could damp its economy further, which is not good for
the global economy,” said  Masafumi Yamamoto , chief currency
strategist at Barclays Bank Plc in  Tokyo , saying it’s possible
the Group of Seven could mount joint intervention to sell yen.  Slide in Equities  Japan’s currency was at 79.35 per dollar as of 9:55 a.m. in
Tokyo, retreating from the high reached earlier today. The rout
in the equity market has brought the Nikkei 255’s losses to 16
percent since the magnitude-9 earthquake and ensuing tsunami
devastated northeast Japan and crippled the cooling systems at a
nuclear power plant.  The government is still struggling to get the Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear facility under control, with helicopters
dropping water on the plant in an effort to prevent a meltdown.  A stronger  exchange rate  threatens to add an additional
burden to a Japanese economy that will already suffer from the
damage wrought by the most powerful temblor to strike the nation.
Companies from Toyota Motor Co. to Sony Corp. shut down
factories in the aftermath, and gains in the yen would erode
their export earnings.  Japan’s exporters said they can remain profitable as long
as the yen trades at 86.30 per dollar or weaker, compared with
the previous year’s breakeven point at 92.90, the Cabinet Office
said in an annual survey released on March 11.  ‘Being Bold’  “There is now clearly a case for being bold to ensure a
speedy recovery from this tragedy,”  Jim O’Neill , the London-
based chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, wrote in a
note to clients this week, referring to the Bank of Japan’s
policy options. “Events certainly require it.”  Japan’s government hasn’t ordered the BOJ to sell yen in
the market since Sept. 15, which was the first time Japan
intervened since 2004. That move followed a jump in the yen on
speculation that Prime Minister  Naoto Kan , who had won re-
election as head of the ruling party, would be less likely to
endorse yen sales than his top opponent.  G-7 members haven’t entered the market together since
September 2000, when they sought to buoy the euro as it tumbled
in its second year of existence.  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said on March 13 that he was
prepared to unleash “massive” liquidity to secure stability, a
commitment followed up the next day with a record 15 trillion
yen in one-day cash, with injections diminishing since then.  The central bank in a March 14 policy meeting also decided
to double its asset-purchase program to 10 trillion yen,
including Japanese  government bonds , exchange-traded funds and
real estate investment trusts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  