-- 
North, South Sudan Agreed to Restart Talks After Suspension, Mbeki Says

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-03-17T15:40:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/north-south-sudan-agreed-to-restart-talks-after-suspension-mbeki-says.html
The presidents of north and south  Sudan  agreed to resume negotiations on future relations, five
days after  Southern Sudan ’s ruling party said it was suspending
the talks, the  African Union  said.  “It was agreed with the presidents that all of the
outstanding negotiations will now proceed,” former South
African President  Thabo Mbeki , the head of the African Union’s
High Level Panel on Sudan, told reporters today in Khartoum, the
Sudanese capital.  Mbeki spoke after a meeting between Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir and Salva Kiir, the president of oil-rich Southern
Sudan, which is due to secede from Sudan and become independent
July 9.  The talks are aimed at reaching agreement on issues such as
citizenship, border demarcation, the responsibility for Sudan’s
$38 billion of foreign debt and oil-revenue sharing. Under a
2005 peace agreement that ended a two-decade civil war, the
north and the south currently share earnings from oil production
in the south on a 50-50 basis.  At independence,  Southern Sudan  will assume control of
about three-quarters of Sudan’s current oil production of
490,000 barrels a day, pumped mainly by China National Petroleum
Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and  India ’s Oil &
Natural Gas Corp. Sudan had 5 billion barrels of proven oil
reserves as of January 2010, according to the  U.S. Energy
Information Administration .  Rebel Attack  The SPLM suspended the negotiations on March 12 following
an attack by a rebel militia in Upper Nile state. It accused the
Sudanese government of funding, training and arming militias in
the south to destabilize the region and overthrow its government
before July.  Al-Bashir’s government denied the accusations, saying that
clashes in Southern Sudan are a result of internal divisions and
that the region’s government has the responsibility to defuse
these tensions.  Fighting in Southern Sudan has intensified with “at least
16 incidents of violence” since almost 99 percent of Southern
Sudanese voters chose in a Jan. 9 referendum to become an
independent nation, Mohamed Chande Othman, the  United Nations ’
 Human Rights Council  independent expert on Sudan, said March 14
in an e-mailed statement.  In Jonglei state alone, Othman said, clashes between
Southern Sudan’s army and renegade General George Athor’s
militia over the past two months killed more than 200 people and
displaced as many as 20,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 