-- 
North Dakota’s Phantom Roughnecks Build Economy, Destroy Roads

-- B y   K i a h   H a s l e t t   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 
2011-03-17T03:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/north-dakota-s-phantom-roughnecks-pump-life-into-economy-dodge-census.html
North Dakota’s revived oil industry
is transforming the landscape, adding $1 billion a year in  tax
revenue  and fueling an employment boom in a state that has at
least 14,000 unfilled jobs. The economic surge is a demographic
phantom.  U.S.  census figures  released yesterday exclude thousands of
oil-field roughnecks living in “man camps” or motels as
temporary residents. The census counted them in their home
states, not North Dakota, whose population grew 4.7 percent to
672,591 between 2000 and 2010, about half the national average
of 9.7 percent.  The price of that undercounting is measured in miles of
roads shredded by heavy trucks used in constructing wells and
delivering the oil they produce. Cities can’t keep up with the
cost of needed repairs -- a situation likely to worsen as
communities in the middle of the oil boom lose out on federal
money tied to the census, said Bob Skarphol, a Republican state
representative from western  North Dakota .  “Federal dollars follow the population,” said Skarphol,
65, a former rancher whose land has active drilling and whose
wife’s grandfather owned North Dakota’s second oil well. “If
our population increases and they don’t get that in the census,
then we don’t get the federal dollars, and they’ll go somewhere
else.”  Employment Gusher  North Dakota’s influx of oil workers comes from across the
country, including people with experience in energy-industry
states such as Wyoming and  Texas , said Tom Rolfstad, director of
the economic development office in Williston, the largest town
in Williams County in the northwestern part of the state.  Based on wastewater treatment, the oil town of Williston
hosts 17,500 people, Rolfstad said. The census counted 14,716
residents, a 17.6 percent increase for the decade.  Towns like Williston enjoy a number of benefits from the
increased drilling of producers such as Houston-based  EOG
Resources Inc. (EOG)  and  Whiting Petroleum Corp. (WLL)  of Denver, according
to the  North Dakota Oil Petroleum Council .  While the oil workers don’t use schools or some other
municipal resources, the communities collect  sales tax  from the
products and services they buy in town. Ryan Motors, a Honda and
Chrysler dealership in Williston, and other car sellers have
seen record traffic. Oil workers fill local hotel rooms.  Packed Hotels  “Everything is at 100 percent capacity,” said Charla
Halvorson of the Williston Area Chamber of Commerce. “The
HomStay Suites that opened up two weeks ago is already full. A
Holiday Inn Express is coming too.”  Western North Dakota sits on a large ridge of shale rock
called the Bakken formation, which companies have been drilling
for five decades. Productivity surged in recent years with the
increased use of hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, said
Rolfstad, Williston’s economic development director.  Environmental activists and federal regulators have raised
concerns about the potential for contaminating drinking water
through fracking -- a technique that shoots water, sand and
chemicals into the ground to extract oil or natural gas. The
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency commissioned a study to
determine if tougher rules are needed to regulate the practice.  North Dakota has had fewer problems, Rolfstad said.  “We’ve drilled a lot of wells through water layers, and
we’ve been pretty successful doing it environmentally so far,”
he said.  Fracking Bonanza  The use of fracking has opened up the Bakken formation as
the largest oil discovery in the lower 48 states. More than
5,000  oil wells  dot 17 western counties, with most concentrated
in five counties, Skarphol said. North Dakota almost quadrupled
oil production in the past decade, becoming the fourth-largest
crude-producing state, according to the Energy Department in  Washington . Only Texas, Alaska and  California  pump more oil.    Oil companies  paid more than $1.4 billion in taxes for the
state’s 2009-2011 budget cycle, said Allen Knudson, a
legislative budget analyst, and about $2 billion is expected to
flow between 2011 and 2013.  A small portion of oil tax money makes up the general fund,
with most of it directed to special funds. One of those special
funds reallocates a portion of the oil tax back to oil-producing
counties. From September 2009 to February 2011, Williams County
received $3.5 million. Williston received about $3.1 million,
according to Skarphol.  Low Unemployment  The state also reaps benefits, including the lowest  unemployment rate  in the nation at 3.8 percent in January. North
Dakota and  Montana  are the only two states that haven’t faced
budget shortfalls during the last three years, said Elizabeth McNichol, senior fellow at the  Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities . The  North Dakota Office of Management and Budget 
projected that the state would end its current two-year budget
cycle with a surplus of as much as $122 million.  “North Dakota has been relatively conservative in spending
levels in the last couple of sessions,” said Representative
Jeff Delzer, the Republican chairman of the appropriations
committee. “We try to keep the ongoing expenditures as
realistic as possible.”  In addition to money left over, the state has jobs to
spare. More than 14,000 are publicly listed on the state’s job
service  website , said Paul Lucy, director of the state’s
Department of Commerce. Vacancies exist in growing industries
that range from finance to health care.  Those higher-end jobs are attracting residents to the
state’s two largest cities. Fargo’s population grew 16.5 percent
during the decade and Bismarck, the state capital, grew by 10.3
percent. Those two accounted for two-thirds of the state’s
additional residents.  Hispanic Surge  North Dakota’s Hispanic population grew 73 percent and
accounts for 2 percent of the state’s population. Non-Hispanic
blacks increased 105.3 percent during the decade and now
represent 1.1 percent of the population. The Native American
population rose by 15.6 percent to become 5.3 percent of the
population in a state that is 88.9 percent non-Hispanic white.  Towns and counties in the western part of the state are
absorbing most of the impact of new temporary workers in the oil
industry, even though they’re not reflected in the local census
count.  The volume of traffic around the drilling fields has
tripled in the last two years, said Skarphol, who represents the
 city of Tioga , which promotes itself as the “Oil Capital of
North Dakota.” The dearth of long-distance pipeline networks in
the state means oil producers are reliant on trucks and
railroads to haul crude to refineries.  Collapsing Roads  Road shoulders are collapsing. Some counties are turning
paved roads back to unpaved routes because there isn’t enough
money to maintain them.  “It’s almost impossible to adequately describe in words
what the roads are like,” said Skarphol, the legislator and
former rancher. “They’re 40 to 50 years old, designed for a
single axle going 35 miles per hour, not 70.”  Skarphol, who is chairman of the House education and
environment appropriations committee, in January proposed a bill
to give a one-time boost of $295 million over four years to help
western counties and other government entities upgrade
infrastructure.  Governor Jack Dalrymple , a fellow Republican,
has offered $242 million over two years in his budget proposal.  The census undercounting affects most areas of western
North Dakota, where the issue will only get worse as more wells
go into production, Skarphol said.  “We’ll have to pay for it with state dollars,” he said.
Missing out on federal funds tied to the census, “that’s
hurtful.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kiah Haslett in Lincoln,  Nebraska ;
Joe Carroll in  Chicago  at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net . 