-- 
LNR Said to Consider Investing in Pool of Cantor Fitzgerald Property Loans

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-03-17T16:04:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/lnr-said-to-consider-investing-in-pool-of-cantor-fitzgerald-property-loans.html
LNR Property Corp., the real estate
finance company partly owned by  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO) , is seeking
to buy the most junior portion of a $600 million pool of
commercial property mortgages made by Cantor Fitzgerald LP,
according to a person with knowledge of the deliberations.  The deal would be  Miami Beach , Florida-based LNR’s first
purchase of the debt since the market for newly issued
commercial-mortgage securities sprung back to life 11 months
ago, said the person, who declined to be identified because
negotiations are private. The company bought about one-third of
the market’s riskiest debt before the financial crisis halted
sales in 2008, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. data.  Investors are pouncing on commercial real estate
opportunities as prices show signs of stabilization after
plunging as much as 45 percent from 2007 peaks. LNR’s investment
comes as bond sales tied to the properties surge, with at least
$8 billion in deals made or planned so far this year, compared
with $11.5 billion in all of 2010. Selling the riskiest slice of
real estate debt in a pool, known as the b-piece, is a
prerequisite to issuing those securities.  “It’s an attractive space for those that are seeking
higher yields and have a good understanding of real estate,”
said Patrick Sargent, a partner at Dallas law fim Andrews &
Kurth LLP.  Cantor’s Registration    Cantor Fitzgerald , the New York-based firm seeking to
transform itself into a full-service investment bank, said in a
regulatory filing yesterday it may issue as much as $1 billion
in commercial-mortgage bonds.  Sandra Lee, a spokeswoman for New York-based Cantor
Fitzgerald, didn’t return telephone calls seeking comment.
Jennifer Brown, a spokeswoman for LNR, declined to comment.  LNR cut its debt by 67 percent last year to $425 million
and raised a $200 million commercial property fund, according to
company statements. Vornado, iStar Financial, Cerberus Captial
Management LP and Oaktree Capital Management supplied LNR with
cash to pay down the debt, the company said in a July statement.  The market for b-pieces in CMBS has been dominated by a
small group including BlackRock Inc., Rialto Capital Management
LLC and hedge fund H/2 Captial, according to deal documents.  LNR is the largest specialist in charge of resolving
delinquent loans packaged into bonds, overseeing $26.4 billion
in troubled debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. So-
called special servicers typically purchased the junior portions
of commercial-mortgage backed bonds prior to the financial
crisis.  Sales of commercial-mortgage bonds may rise to $45 billion
this year, according to JPMorgan. They plummeted to $3.4 billion
in 2009 as credit markets seized. The market peaked with $234
billion in CMBS sales in 2007, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  