-- 
Nuclear Halts May Lift Carbon Permit Price Up to 15%, New Energy Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-03-17T15:16:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/nuclear-halts-may-lift-carbon-permit-price-up-to-15-new-energy-says.html
European Union carbon prices may
rise as much as 15 percent for the eight year through 2020 if  Germany  decides to permanently cancel extended use of its
nuclear fleet, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  If Germany never reopens the seven reactors suspended
earlier this week and closes its 10 newer reactors by 2021, the
carbon price may average 38.50 euros ($53.92) a metric ton in
the period from 2013 through 2020, said Matthew Cowie, an
analyst at New Energy Finance in  London . That compares with the
33.40 euros predicted before last week’s earthquakes and tsunami
in Japan for the trading period known as phase three.  Carbon, natural gas and power rallied yesterday to their
highest prices since 2008 after Germany announced the nuclear
closures and the EU worked to finalize rules for phase three of
its emissions trading system. The bloc’s carbon program is the
world’s biggest greenhouse gas market by traded volume.  A jump in fuel prices this week already has added 1.30
euros a ton to the earlier forecast, Cowie said yesterday in a
research note. The closures for the next three months alone, for
planned safety checks, would add another 10 cents a ton to the
price, he said. Permanently closing the seven German reactors
and assuming half the extensions on the remaining 10 would add
another 1.9 euros to the forecast, he said. Overturning all the
German extensions would take the forecast up another 1.70 euros
to the maximum, Cowie said.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said today she doesn’t plan
to close all Germany’s nuclear reactors as a result of the
atomic crisis in Japan.  ‘Safety First’  Merkel, in a speech to lower-house lawmakers in Berlin,
said her decision to close Germany’s seven oldest nuclear
plants for three months while checks are carried out on the
industry is guided by the principle of “safety first.” The
government will also present a plan for speeding up the
transition to alternate energies such as wind power, she said.  “I’m against shutting down our nuclear  power plants  only
to have atomic power imported to Germany from other countries,”
Merkel told lawmakers as she outlined her government’s response
to the crisis in  Japan . “That won’t happen on my watch.”  The European Commission’s decision on March 15 to sell an
additional 120 million tons of phase-three allowances next year
may limit gains for carbon prices, Cowie said. “The additional
volume will help smooth the transition between phases and help
the market cope with the Japan shock.”  The extra supply takes the total phase-three sales expected
next year to 420 million tons. December carbon permits fell 1.2
percent today to 17.05 euros a metric ton on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in London as of 3:10 p.m.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  