-- 
Obama Says He’s Confident Japan Will Rebuild and Recover

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-03-17T19:14:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/obama-makes-unannounced-stop-at-japan-embassy-to-express-u-s-condolences.html
President  Barack Obama  said he’s
confident  Japan  will rebuild and recover from the earthquake and
nuclear crisis that has shaken the world’s third-largest
economy.  “I am confident that Japan will rebuild, it has people who
are strong, who are resilient, who are dedicated to their
country,” Obama said at the Japanese embassy in Washington,
where he made an unannounced stop today to sign a condolence
book. He said Japan will “emerge even stronger than before”
and that the U.S. will act with “great urgency” to provide
assistance.  The president declined to answer a question about the
efforts to control the crippled nuclear reactors in Japan,
saying he would address that in remarks later today. The
president is scheduled to deliver a statement on Japan at 3:30
p.m. Washington time.  Japanese authorities are trying to cool quake-damaged
nuclear reactors at a  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. plant 135 miles
(220 kilometers) north of Tokyo following the March 11
earthquake, the country’s worst on record.  Obama said the U.S. is “heartbroken” over the tragedy in
Japan and he expressed America’s “deepest sympathies” with
people there.  “We feel a great urgency to provide assistance to those
who have been displaced” and those “who are suffering
enormously at this moment,” Obama said after signing the
condolence book.  “We are doing everything we can to stand by our great
friend and ally Japan in this hour of need,” he said.  Obama was greeted at the embassy by the Ambassador of
Japan to the United States Ichiro Fujisaki, who said his country
is grateful to the president and the people of the U.S. for
their sympathy.  In his condolence message Obama wrote, “because of the
strength and wisdom if its people, we know that Japan will
recover, and indeed will emerge stronger than ever.”  The president signed the book, “May god bless the people
of Japan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Washington  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  