-- 
Obama Administration Pushes at UN for Military Actions to Aid Libya Rebels

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-03-17T18:18:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/obama-administration-pushes-at-un-for-military-actions-to-aid-libya-rebels.html
The Obama administration, reticent
for the past week about backing a no-fly zone over  Libya , is
ready to vote today for  United Nations  authorization to destroy
forces of  Muammar Qaddafi  that attack civilians or population
centers.  The UN Security Council has scheduled a vote for 6 p.m. in
New York on a draft resolution stating that any nation can take
“all necessary measures” to protect civilians under threat of
attack, explicitly including the rebel stronghold Benghazi,
“while excluding an occupation force.” The measure also
demands an immediate cease-fire.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , speaking to reporters
during a visit to  Tunisia , said today that options being
considered against Libya include the use of drones and arming
rebel forces.  “Our goal in the Security Council today is to convince the  Security Council  to authorize further action, including a no-fly
zone” Clinton said at a town hall meeting in Tunis with
students and others.  The  Security Council  earlier today finished closed
consultations on the draft resolution, amended yesterday at U.S.
urging to strengthen the authority for international military
intervention to halt attacks by air, land and sea forces loyal
to Qaddafi.  ‘Dramatic Change’  The U.S. “appears to have discarded its previous concerns
that it may be dragged into a prolonged civil war in Libya,”
David Hartwell, Middle East analyst for the London-based HIS
Global Insight, a political and economic forecaster, said in an
interview. Hartwell said this “dramatic change” resulted from
the Arab League’s endorsement of a no-fly zone and agreement to
help enforce it, and the advancement of Qaddafi’s forces toward
Benghazi.  “While U.S. support is unlikely to significantly sway  Russia  and China from their opposition to military intervention,
it does provide the U.K. and  France  with much-needed diplomatic
support,” Hartwell said. “The U.S. has saved London and Paris
from the diplomatic embarrassment of having to withdraw the
resolution or see it voted down by the Security Council.”  French Support  French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe is in New York to lend
his support for the resolution, which also would call on all
nations to intercept ships at sea or planes suspected of
carrying arms or mercenaries to Libya, freeze the foreign assets
of the Central Bank of Libya, Libyan National Oil Company and
four other entities, and 13 government officials.  The list of officials subject to an asset freeze includes
Libya’s prime minister and defense minister, director of
military intelligence and the head of Libyan National Oil Corp.,
who is described as “trying to sell heavily discounted oil to
fund the regime.”  The draft resolution emphasizes the need to notify the  Arab
League  of military actions against Qaddafi forces and the
“important role” of Arab nations in implementing the no-fly
zone.  Lebanon’s ambassador to the UN, Nawaf Salam, said a
“number” of Arab countries are committed to help enforce the
no-fly zone and that “significant participation has been
confirmed from the highest political authorities.”  Libyan Deputy Ambassador  Ibrahim Dabbashi  said five Arab
nations have agreed to contribute to the no-fly zone, and
diplomats said that group would include Jordan, Qatar,  Saudi
Arabia  and the United Arab Emirates.  The talks in New York came as Qaddafi took control of Ras
Lanuf and Brega oil facilities and bombed near Benghazi.  Oil Trickle  Libya’s oil output slumped to a “trickle” by last week,
according to the  International Energy Agency . The conflict,
which has left hundreds dead, has helped push up Brent crude
prices by about 20 percent this year. Libya’s crude exports may
be halted for “many months” because of damage to oil
facilities and international sanctions, the IEA said this week.  The draft resolution isn’t likely to be adopted
unanimously, according to British Ambassador Mark Lyall Grant.  China , Russia,  Germany ,  Brazil  and  South Africa , have expressed
reservations about the proposed no-fly zone, and several might
abstain from the vote.  International Support  “I suspect the resolution will pass but, as military
people point out, you have to move carriers to the region, get
everybody to agree on the rules of engagement, whether or not
you have to fly over Libyan air space, what happens if you
intervene and the rebels don’t turn the tide,” Micah Zenko of
the New York-based Council on Foreign Relations said in an
interview. “Everybody says it won’t take much, but history in
Bosnia and Iraq shows that not to be true.”  Clinton, at the town hall session, said the U.S. wants to
make clear that any military action has international support,
including from Arab nations.  “We don’t want to get into the position where people
question why we do what we do” Clinton said. “When we act, we
want to act with international partners, we want very much to
have Arab leadership and participation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner in  New York  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  