-- 
Obama Says U.S. Not at Risk From Japanese Nuclear Plant’s Radiation Leak

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-03-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/obama-says-he-ordered-review-of-nuclear-plant-safety-following-japan-quake.html
President  Barack Obama  said
radiation leaking from a damaged nuclear plant in Japan poses no
danger to the U.S. and defended nuclear power as an “important
part” of the nation’s energy production.  “We do not expect harmful levels of radiation to reach the  United States , whether it’s the West Coast,  Hawaii ,  Alaska  or
U.S. territories in the Pacific,” he said yesterday at the
White House.  Obama said he ordered a “comprehensive review” of safety
at U.S. nuclear facilities as more is learned about the
situation in Japan. U.S. plants already have undergone
“exhaustive study” and been “declared safe for any number of
extreme contingencies,” he said.  Authorities in Japan are using helicopters and water
cannons to cool reactors and spent-fuel ponds at the Tokyo
Electric Power Co.’s Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant, which was
damaged March 11 by a magnitude-9 earthquake and 7-meter
tsunami.  The nuclear crisis has prompted governments from  Germany  to  India  to review nuclear-power policies. Germany plans to close
its seven oldest nuclear plants for three months for
inspections.  Obama administration officials including Energy Secretary
Steven Chu have said the U.S. wasn’t backing away from plans to
expand nuclear power.  Nuclear power is an “important part of our own energy
future,” Obama said today.  Government Reviews  Obama’s remarks reinforced statements earlier in the day by
 Nuclear Regulatory Commission  Chairman Gregory Jaczko that the
government continually reviews safety and standards and will do
so based on what is learned from the situation in Japan. There
is no immediate need for special inspections of U.S. nuclear
plants, he said.  “When we have good, credible information about what
happened in Japan, we’ll take that information and we’ll work to
see what changes we might need to make, if any, to our system,”
Jaczko said.  The U.S. has 23 nuclear reactors with similar containment
designs as the Japanese plant at the center of the crisis,
Jaczko said. Democratic Senators  Barbara Boxer  of  California  and
Tom Carper of  Delaware  yesterday sent a letter to Jaczko asking
the NRC to conduct a “comprehensive investigation” of all
nuclear power facilities in the U.S. to assess whether they can
withstand a catastrophic disaster.  ‘Relevant Information’  Jaczko said it is too early to assess U.S. nuclear plants
because “the most relevant information” about the accident in
Japan is lacking. U.S. reactors and containment facilities have
been upgraded to “deal with these types of very severe
scenarios,” he said.  Once all the data is in, “We intend to take a very
thorough look at what happened and what changes we could make,”
he said. It may take weeks for the situation to be resolved, he
said.  All six of the reactors at the troubled Japanese plant are
based on a  General Electric Co. (GE)  design, and three of them were
built by the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company.  “We will fully support the review,”  Andrew Williams , a GE
spokesman, said.  The U.S. nuclear industry agreed this week to begin looking
at procedures for handling natural disasters or equipment
failures that plants weren’t designed to handle,  Anthony R.
Pietrangelo , chief nuclear officer of the industry trade group
 Nuclear Energy Institute , said on a conference call.  Design Limits  Both the earthquake and the tsunami exceeded design
specifications at Fukushima based on reports, he said.
Procedures being looked at include deployment of diesel-fired
portable water pumps for emergency reactor cooling, he said.  Michael Golay, a nuclear science and engineering professor
at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology , said U.S. nuclear
regulators are taking the right approach because there is no
“acute danger” from domestic reactors and it’s still unclear
what went wrong in  Japan .  “It’s going to take a while to figure out the real lessons
from this,” he said. There is no safety benefit “in rushing to
shut plants down,” he said in an interview.  Obama said the government is taking all steps necessary to
assist its citizens in Japan and in the U.S., including the
voluntary departures of dependents and family members of U.S.
officials working in northeastern Japan.  In addition, customs agents are checking for radiation on
flights arriving from Japan and regulators are considering
whether to test Japanese food imports.  “In the coming days, we will continue to do everything we
can to ensure the safety of American citizens and the security
of our sources of energy,” Obama said. “And we will stand with
the people of Japan as they contain this crisis, recover from
this hardship and rebuild their great nation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  