-- 
Ocado Appoints Tesco Executive Belsham to Run Non-Food Business

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r   a n d   C e l e s t e   P e r r i
-- 
2011-03-17T16:08:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/ocado-appoints-tesco-executive-belsham-to-run-non-food-business.html
  Ocado Group Plc (OCDO) , the U.K. online
grocer that sold shares to the public last year, appointed a
manager from competitor  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  to oversee its non-food
business.  Simon Belsham, who was Tesco’s group multichannel
development director, will sit on Ocado’s management board and
report to its executive board, the Hatfield, England-based
retailer said today in a statement.  The departure is at least the third this year from Tesco,
the biggest U.K. grocer.  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) , the
country’s largest clothing retailer, hired Tesco.com chief Laura Wade-Gery last month to run online operations. Lance Batchelor,
who led the mobile and telecommunications division of Cheshunt,
England-based Tesco, was named deputy chief executive officer of
Domino’s Pizza U.K. & Ireland Plc in January.  Tesco has a “lot of management with reasonable experience
at a reasonable level, and because you’ve got quite a settled
top team, they’ve got nowhere to go,” with “pretty limited”
opportunities to become chief executive officer, finance
director or chief operating officer, said Tom Gadsby, an analyst
at Matrix Corporate Capital LLP in  London .  Belsham’s departure could also stem from slowing growth at
Tesco compared with competitors, Gadsby said. Tesco is “a much
more mature beast in the U.K.”  Ocado rose as much as 6.4 percent to 223.9 pence and was up
5 percent as of 4:06 p.m. in London trading. The shares have
gained 24 percent this year, giving the company a market value
of 1.2 billion pounds ($2 billion). Tesco gained as much as 2
percent to 385.45 pence and was up 1.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Celeste Perri in Amsterdam at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 