-- 
Commodities Gain for a Second Day; Oil Rises on Unrtest in Libya, Bahrain

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-03-17T09:17:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/oil-leads-commodity-losses-as-japan-s-nuclear-crisis-sparks-demand-concern.html
Commodities gained for a second
consecutive day, led by oil after fighting in  Libya  intensified,
renewing concern that Middle East supplies may be further
threatened in  Africa ’s third-largest fuel producer.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodity
futures gained as much as 1.2 percent after falling 0.4 percent.
Prices dropped earlier today amid speculation Japan’s earthquake
will curb demand.  Crude oil in  New York  rose as much as 1.3 percent to $99.20
a barrel, reversing an earlier loss of 1.4 percent, taking this
year’s gain to 8.4 percent. The fuel climbed as much as 2.5
percent yesterday as violence in Bahrain increased concern that
unrest will spill into  Saudi Arabia .  “Gains were fragile, as Japan tensions remain,” Deutsche
Bank AG’s analysts  Adam Sieminski  and Xiao Fu said in a report
today. Crude prices were “underpinned by escalating
uncertainties in Libya, Bahrain and Yemen,” they said.  Bahraini police arrested at least four opposition leaders a
day after imposing a military curfew on parts of the country and
forcing protesters from a central roundabout in the capital.
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s warplanes bombed the Benghazi
airport, rebels said, bringing the war to the opposition
stronghold for the first time as the  United Nations Security
Council  prepares to debate action.  The S&P GSCI has advanced 8.4 percent this year, partly
driven by political unrest in the Middle East and North Africa
that cut oil output in Libya and threatens disruptions in other
producing countries. The increase has been limited by the
magnitude-9.0 earthquake that hit  Japan  on March 11, prompting
investors to sell commodities on speculation demand will drop.  Nuclear Crisis  In Japan, more than 300 workers are racing to prevent a
meltdown and spread of radiation at the crippled Fukushima Dai-
Ichi power station today, an increase from a core group of 50
engineers yesterday, Tokyo Electric Power Co. said.  Japan is the world’s third-largest user of crude, the top
importer of corn and second only to  China  in terms of copper-ore
purchases.  Workers plan to connect a power line to start damaged
cooling systems later today and intend to spray water on a
damaged reactor from a cannon used by the police for riot
control, Tepco spokesman Kaoru Yoshida said. Helicopters doused
30 metric tons of water on pools used to cool spent fuel rods.
No change in radiation levels was reported after four bombing
runs,  Kyodo News  said, citing Tepco.  “From the beginning to now, the situation in Japan seems
to be getting worse and impacting commodity prices.” Dominic Schnider, director for wealth management research at UBS AG in
Singapore, said today by phone.  Derailed Recovery  Immediate-delivery gold was little changed at $1,397.75 an
ounce after dropping as much as 0.9 percent earlier, while
copper advanced 0.9 percent to $9,340 a ton on the London Metal
Exchange.  “Japan is a big economy; if we do have some sort of
nuclear meltdown it will have big macro-economic impacts and
that could derail the recovery,”  Ben Westmore , a minerals and
energy economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in  Melbourne ,
said by phone today.  “The commodity markets are jittery and do remain heavily
focused on the impacts of the Japan nuclear power plant
situation,” Westmore said.  Foreign governments including the U.S. and the U.K. advised
their citizens to consider leaving Japan, as the Asian nation’s
Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano urged people not to panic.  Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency said today
there is a possibility of no water at the No. 4 reactor spent-
fuel cooling pool. The agency has detected no smoke or steam
rising from the reactor, spokesman Hidehiko Nishiyama said.  ‘Major’ Disaster  “We are somewhere between a disaster and a major
disaster,” EU Energy Commissioner Guenther Oettinger told a
European Parliament committee yesterday.  Spot platinum fell as much as 2.2 percent to $1,657.75 an
ounce, the lowest intraday price since Dec. 1, and palladium
lost as much as 1.5 percent to $688.25, lowest since Nov. 30.
Prices of the metals used for pollution-control devices in cars
dropped as Japanese carmakers including Toyota Motor Corp., the
world’s largest, halted operations following the quake.  Farm products were the biggest gainers. Corn for May
delivery climbed as much as 2 percent to $6.2875 a bushel on the
Chicago Board of Trade. The price closed at the lowest level in
two months yesterday. Wheat for May delivery climbed 2.3 percent
to $6.77 a bushel after yesterday dropping to $6.56, the lowest
price since Oct. 6.  “End-users snapped up purchases after values tumbled,
which is helping prices creep up,” said Han Sung Min, a senior
trader at Seoul-based Korea Exchange Bank Futures Co. “The
rebound may be short-lived because investors remain jittery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in  Singapore  at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  