-- 
Oil Advances as Unrest in Libya Escalates; UBS Raises Brent Price Forecast

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-03-17T19:55:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/oil-advances-as-unrest-in-libya-escalates-ubs-raises-brent-price-forecast.html
Crude oil climbed the most in three
weeks on concern that unrest in North Africa and the Middle East
will spread, reducing shipments from the region.  Oil rose 3.5 percent after the U.S. signaled it favored
allowing foreign intervention against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s forces. Bahrain declared a three-month state of
emergency on March 15. UBS AG raised its 2011  Brent crude 
forecast because of the turmoil. Equities increased as Japan
moved closer to restoring power at a nuclear plant.  “The situation in Japan has calmed down enough that
attention has returned to the problems in North Africa and the
Middle East,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork
Group Inc. in Villanova,  Pennsylvania . “Qaddafi’s forces are on
the offensive in Libya, the Saudis are in Bahrain to quell a
Shiite uprising, and the trouble may spread further.”  Crude oil for April delivery rose $3.44 to settle at
$101.42 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It was the
biggest gain since Feb. 23. The contract is up 22 percent from a
year ago.  Brent crude oil for May settlement advanced $4.28, or 3.9
percent, to end the session at $114.90 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.2 percent to
1,271.85 at 3:35 p.m., and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
gained 135.67 points to 11,748.97.  UBS raised its Brent projection to $103.75 a barrel from
$85, analysts led by Melbourne-based Gordon Ramsay said in a
report dated yesterday. The bank increased its 2012 estimate by
12 percent to $95.  No-Fly Zone  The Obama administration is ready to vote today for United
Nations authorization to destroy Qaddafi’s forces that attack
civilians or population centers.  The UN Security Council has scheduled a vote for 6 p.m. in  New York  on a draft resolution stating that any nation can take
“all necessary measures” to protect civilians under threat of
attack, explicitly including the rebel stronghold Benghazi,
“while excluding an occupation force.” The measure also
demands an immediate cease-fire.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , speaking to reporters
during a visit to  Tunisia , said today that options being
considered against Libya include the use of drones and arming
rebel forces.  Government planes today bombed Benina airport, 10
kilometers (6 miles) south of Benghazi, used by the rebels as an
air base, following similar raids yesterday, Al Jazeera
television reported.  Libyan Conflict  Fighting continued around Ajdabiya, about 100 miles west of
Benghazi, where Qaddafi’s forces are still meeting resistance
after saying they had seized the town. Reinforcements arrived
for both government troops and rebels as they fought in darkness
after electricity was cut off by the opposition, the  Associated
Press  said.  The restoration of Qaddafi’s control won’t necessarily lead
to the quick resumption of Libyan oil output, analysts at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. led by  Lawrence Eagles  in New York said in
a note to clients today. It will be difficult to persuade
foreign workers to return and there may be the obstacle of UN
sanctions and a boycott of Libyan oil, the analysts said.  “The rebels in  Libya  are putting up a fight, signaling
that it will be a long time before Libyan barrels are back on
the market,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy
& Economic Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts . “There’s
concern that the crackdown in Bahrain may actually worsen the
situation and lead to increased violence.”  Shiite-Led Protests  Oil climbed yesterday on concern violence in Bahrain will
spill into  Saudi Arabia . Forces from neighboring countries were
invited by Bahrain to help quell a month of protests driven by
majority Shiites.  The island nation is connected by a 25-mile causeway to
Saudi Arabia’s Eastern Province, the source of most Saudi oil
production and home to much of its Shiite population.  Regional unrest, which has cut Libya’s crude production by
1.3 million barrels a day and toppled the leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt , has reached Saudi Arabia’s neighbors Yemen and Oman as
well as Bahrain.  A Tokyo Electric Power Co. official said the company may
connect a power cable to the Fukushima nuclear plant as workers
try to restart the cooling system and prevent a meltdown. A
March 11 earthquake,  Japan ’s strongest on record, triggered a
tsunami that killed thousands and damaged reactors.  Group of Seven officials will meet tomorrow to discuss the
threat from the 9-magnitude earthquake, raising the prospect of
coordinated action to prevent the disaster from crippling the
world’s third-largest economy.  Japanese Consumption  Analysts at Nomura International Ltd. said Japan’s oil
demand may jump by 3.9 percent, or 171,000 barrels a day, as the
country seeks alternative power sources. Nomura said it based
its estimates on the effect of quakes in 1995 and 2007. Japan
will make up for the bulk of the nuclear power losses by
boosting output in oil-fired and natural gas-fueled power
plants, the bank said in an e-mailed report.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 517,335
contracts as of 3:22 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 816,508
contracts yesterday, 1.4 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.56 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  