-- 
Tokyo Remains Stoic Amid Japan-Is-Doomed Reports: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-03-17T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/tokyo-is-stoic-amid-japan-is-doomed-reports-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
Of all the things I expected to
experience in  Tokyo , hugging three Japanese female strangers in
their 70s was never part of the plan.  This city is no-public-display-of-affection central. The
anti-Paris when it comes to spontaneous gestures of intimacy.
When the ground begins to shake, protocol is the first casualty.
So, when a big aftershock hit Shinjuku train station, we four
panicked strangers joined arms and squeezed for dear life.  We quickly came to our senses when the shaking stopped,
giggled nervously and parted ways. The point is that Tokyoites
are out and about. We are all living our lives as best we can,
notwithstanding the hyperbolic international news coverage of
Japan’s plight. Frankly, when I watch CNN I feel like I should
buy guns, flee to a cabin in the wilderness and find God.  Then I step outside my place in Tokyo and see that school
kids are still off to class, my local coffee shop is open, the
neighborhood ramen shops are abuzz with noodle-slurping patrons
and taxis are picking up fares. Joggers and cyclists still zoom
by, the hair salon on the corner is doing brisk business and the
trains are running on time.  The newspaper still comes. The mail, too. The sweet-potato
guy still drives by every hour. Touts still pass out fliers for
this eatery or that pachinko parlor. The young Chinese massage
ladies still try to coax me into some dodgy spa. Nigerian men
still angle to drag me into girlie bars.  “Beautiful honeys! Special earthquake price!” they
proclaim.  Young hipsters in Shibuya are as jaunty as ever, no doubt
mulling an earthquake-chic look. Police in low-crime  Japan  look
as bored as ever.  Aware of Dangers  Look, we’re dealing here. We are worried, of course, and
taking precautions. Flashlights, candles, bottled water, canned
food, blankets, radios, change for pay telephones, you name it.
Not everyone is scurrying to the airport or jostling for a
bullet-train to safety. We aren’t being complacent; we know full
well that dangerous radiation leaks threaten us. Really, we do.
We choose to stay and do our best.  So please, no more alarmist e-mails suggesting we are going
to die -- that Chernobyl 2.0 is afoot. It’s amazing to me how
everyone is suddenly a nuclear expert. Do this, eat that, rub
this on your skin, read this report, run for the hills, are you
bonkers? We appreciate the concern. We genuinely do. But when I
turn on international TV channels and scan my e-mails, I
suddenly feel like I need a drink or a hug or something.  Movie Action  Japan’s 126 million residents could be excused for
wondering if we’ve been cast in some bad end-of-the world action
flick. Yes, there was an almost biblical quality to the way the
nation shook on March 11 and the waters did rise with
supernatural speed to swallow entire towns. Trains were thrown
into the air like something out of a Godzilla film, roads turned
to jelly and nuclear  power plants  coughed out radiation.  At times, it feels like producer Jerry Bruckheimer might
suddenly yell “cut!” as he finished up his latest apocalyptic
box-office smash starring Nicolas Cage or  Bruce Willis . Maybe
John Cusack is in town filming “2012, the Sequel.”  In the past week I’ve heard many comments and seen many
sights one would never expect in wealthy, cosmopolitan Tokyo --
like long food lines.  “I’ve lived in this city all my life and I never thought I
would be fighting for milk, bread and beer,” said Toru Kobori,
a 51-year-old accountant. “It’s like some action movie -- where
the world ends.”  Absurd Yen  Then there’s the surreal financial news. Take the yen’s
surge. Normally, I would revel in its gains to merrily plan an
overseas holiday. The yen hitting a postwar high amid this level
of uncertainty -- radiation, aftershocks, a coming recession --
is beyond absurd. It’s another challenge for Japan’s economy,
not to mention the global one.  You know the interest-rate increase for which some Federal
Reserve officials are itching? Well, you can forget that for a
while. The same goes for the  European Central Bank . You know
that Apple Inc. iPad 2 you had your eye on, the one that’s
already sold out? Good luck getting it now that Japan, where
factories produce about one-fifth of semiconductors and 40
percent of electronic components, is offline for a while.  The losses will grow with each rolling power outage, each
businessperson leaving and each over-the-top Japan-is-doomed TV
report.  True, things are far from normal. Prosperous Japan isn’t
accustomed to humanitarian crises. It’s a shock to see
shantytowns popping up in the northeast -- hundreds of thousands
huddled into overcrowded shelters without enough water, food,
blankets, medical supplies and other essentials.  Yet the stoicism one sees in Tokyo, even as prospects for
safety dwindle, is truly remarkable. It’s not that we in Japan
don’t get what’s afoot. We’re just doing our best during
turbulent times that we hope will soon end.  Amid such uncertainty, one thing is clear: Rumors of
Tokyo’s death are wildly premature.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  