-- 
Hong Kong Stocks Fall Amid Worsening Nuclear Crisis in Japan

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 
2011-03-17T04:35:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/hong-kong-stocks-fall-amid-worsening-nuclear-crisis-in-japan.html
Hong Kong stocks fell, driving the
benchmark index to its lowest level in more than five months, on
concern a worsening nuclear crisis in  Japan  may cripple the
world’s third-largest economy.    Foxconn International Holdings Ltd. (2038) , the world’s biggest
contract maker of mobile phones, dropped 4.2 percent on concern
the nuclear crisis and damage after last week’s earthquake will
disrupt supplies. Air  China  Ltd., the world’s largest carrier by
market value, and Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. dropped at least
1.8 percent.  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , China’s No. 1  Internet
company , slumped 8.4 percent after forecasting slower growth.  “The equity markets are very nervous,” said Tey Tze Ming,
a market strategist at Saxo Capital Markets Pte in  Singapore .
“There’s a lot of panic selling and there are still a lot of
unknowns. The nuclear crisis developing in Japan is first and
foremost on everyone’s mind. If things really go sour there, it
could have a big impact on world growth, so that’s why everyone
is skittish.”  The Hang Seng Index dropped 1.8 percent to 22,294.31 as of
the noon trading break in  Hong Kong , heading for its lowest
close since Sept. 28. Eight shares fell for each that rose in
the benchmark index of 45 companies. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of H shares of Chinese companies sank 1.4
percent.  ‘Extremely High’  U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Chairman Gregory Jaczko
told a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee yesterday that all
cooling water at one of the damaged Japanese reactors had
drained from the spent-fuel pool and “radiation levels are
extremely high, which could possibly impact the ability to take
corrective measures.”  Tokyo Electric Power Co., Japan’s largest power utility,
said today the pool in question had water last night, and that
the level now was uncertain.  The  United Nations ’ nuclear agency plans an emergency
meeting to discuss the crisis at Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
power plant, 135 miles north of Tokyo, as hundreds of cars
streamed south of areas hit by last week’s earthquake and
tsunami.  Foxconn dropped 4.2 percent to HK$4.84. Makers of mobile-
phone handsets and personal computers will be affected by supply
disruptions in Japan, a major provider of substrate raw
materials that are use in the electronics industries, Pranab Kumar Sarmah, an analyst at Daiwa Securities Group Inc. in Hong
Kong, said by telephone today.  Airlines declined as tourists postponed trips to Japan amid
fears of radiation leaks from the stricken nuclear facility
north of  Tokyo .  Suspended Approval  Air China dropped 2.3 percent to HK$6.86. China Southern
Airlines Co. decreased 4.1 percent to HK$3.24. Cathay Pacific,
Hong Kong’s biggest carrier, slipped 1.9 percent to HK$17.84.  Makers of nuclear electricity-generating equipment in China
tumbled after the State Council said it suspended approval of
new nuclear projects until safety and improved long-term
development plans are cleared. Shanghai Electric Group Co.
slumped 9.2 percent to HK$3.67. Dongfang Electric Corp. sank 9
percent to HK$25.15.  Tencent declined 8.4 percent to HK$198.70. Earnings growth
is “certain” to slow, President Martin Lau said yesterday
after the company reported fourth-quarter profit rose 46 percent
to 2.2 billion yuan ($335 million).  Futures on the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  slipped 1.4 percent, and the
HSI Volatility Index, the benchmark gauge for Hong Kong stock
options, jumped 17 percent to 28.91, indicating that options
traders are expecting a swing of 8.3 percent in the next 30
days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .;
Lynn Thomasson in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 