-- 
Hong Kong to Widen Yuan Center Appeal With Bullion Trade Offer

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-03-17T00:23:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/hong-kong-to-widen-yuan-center-appeal-with-bullion-trade-offer.html
Hong Kong’s  Chinese Gold & Silver
Exchange Society , a century-old bullion bourse, plans to start
trading gold quoted in yuan from May, bolstering the city’s
plans to be  China ’s offshore currency center.    Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  and  Wing Hang Bank Ltd. (302)  will be the
clearing banks, society President Haywood Cheung, 58, said in an
interview. The gold product, which may generate as much as HK$6
billion ($770 million) in trades a day in a year, will be quoted
and settled in the Chinese currency, Cheung said.  The plans will support Hong Kong’s development as China’s
offshore currency center as yuan-denominated debt sales there
doubled last year. Yuan deposits in the former British colony
rose to a record 371 billion yuan ($56 billion) in January.  “People could speculate on the yuan through gold, which is
globally recognized,” said Cheung, who has traded bullion for
more than 30 years. “We want to attract foreign investors who
want to invest in the Chinese currency.”  China is promoting the use of the yuan in global trade and
investment to reduce its reliance on the dollar.  Li Ka-shing ,  Hong Kong ’s richest man, is planning to price an initial public
offering of a real estate investment trust in China’s currency.  The yuan will advance 4 percent to 6.31 per dollar by the
end of the year, according to the median estimate in Bloomberg
survey of 22 analysts.  “As China’s bullion market is still in a developing stage,
Hong Kong has a potentially huge market to capture,” said Tommy Ong, senior vice president of treasury and markets at DBS Bank
(Hong Kong) Ltd. “Investors will welcome such products.”  Yuan Appreciation  The yuan has strengthened 2.3 percent to 6.5713 versus the
greenback in the past six months in  Shanghai , and gained about
2.3 percent to 6.5705 in Hong Kong’s offshore market.  The city’s yuan deposit pool will be sufficient to handle
demand for the gold product, Cheung said.  Members of the closely held bourse, which trades physical
products, may later also approach  Hang Seng Bank Ltd. (11)  to be a
clearing bank, he said.  Daily bullion trading volume at the society, which has 171
active members, has jumped to HK$40 billion, a 33-percent gain
from last year because of higher  gold prices , Cheung said.
Members include Luk Fook Holdings (International) Ltd.,  Chow
Sang Sang Holdings International Ltd. (116) , Hang Seng Bank and HSBC
Holdings Plc., he said.  Soaring Prices  Bullion prices have jumped 26 percent in the past year,
reaching a record $1,444.95 an ounce on March 7, as inflation
concerns and the unrest in the Middle East led investors to seek
alternative investments.  The precious metal will likely trade between $1,250 and
$1,350 an ounce in the short term, and may climb to as high as
$1,650 an ounce later this year, Cheung said.  Sales of yuan products in Hong Kong have gained in the past
year, with yuan-denominated debt, also known as dim sum bonds,
reaching 35.7 billion yuan in 2010, up from 16 billion yuan the
previous year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The city’s stock exchange is preparing for IPOs in yuan. Li
said in January his plans to sell yuan-denominated shares in a
Chinese real estate investment trust is progressing well.  The Chinese Gold & Silver Exchange, which introduced
electronic trading last year, will consider trading silver in
yuan if its bullion product is successful, Cheung said.  The bourse, started in 1910, will mull an initial public
offering later, he said, declining to provide a date.  “Going public is one of the ways to reimburse our
shareholders and to introduce strategic investors,” Cheung
said. “We’ve been approached by investors but the society’s
model makes it difficult.”  The bourse pays out dividends from its trading commissions
to members. The price of a trading license for the bourse has
jumped to more than HK$5 million, after slumping to HK$200,000
in the 1990s when bullion demand fell, Cheung said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  