-- 
Osaka Hotels Fill as Tokyo Residents Flee Nuclear Concerns, Food Shortages

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 
2011-03-17T03:31:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/osaka-hotels-fill-as-tokyo-residents-flee-nuclear-concerns-food-shortages.html
Hotels in  Osaka , the largest city
in western  Japan , are in high demand as residents and companies
leave Tokyo to seek shelter amid concerns over radiation leaks
after the nation’s worst earthquake.  The  St. Regis Osaka , where daily room rates start at 70,000
yen ($880) this week, is fully booked for the entire week, while
the banquet hall at the  Swissotel Nankai Hotel  was transformed
into a temporary office, officials at the hotels said. All
serviced apartments at Divio Osaka are occupied for this month.  Concerns over radiation leaks at a damaged nuclear plant in
northeast Japan after the quake on March 11 prompted workers at
companies such as  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and BNP Paribas SA to
leave the capital. Radiation levels remain normal in Osaka, 600
kilometers (375 miles) from the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power
plant, providing shelter for companies and residents from Tokyo,
the country’s biggest financial hub that once drew away
businesses including  Resona Holdings Inc. (8308)   “We have seen an increase of residents from Tokyo,” said
Kumiko Fukushima, a  St. Regis  spokeswoman, adding that the hotel
is booked for an entire week for the first time since it opened
in October. “The inquiries from both Japanese and foreign
companies about accommodating rooms for their employees are
rising.”  The St. Regis usually fills 70 percent to 80 percent of its
160 rooms, Fukushima said. The average stay also has lengthened
to four to five nights from two to three, she said.  Ballroom to Office  At the  Swissotel Nankai , a European financial company has
set up a temporary office in its ballroom, said Michiko Fujikawa,
a spokeswoman of the property, declining to provide firm’s name.  The property, owned by Fairmont Raffles Holdings
International, received “more than a few” inquires from both
Japanese and foreign companies in  Tokyo  since March 14, Fujikawa
said. The 548-room hotel also is fully booked and has allocated
as many as 60 rooms for each company, she said.  “Right after the quake, we got a lot of cancellations,”
Fujikawa said. “Now we don’t have enough rooms.”  Measurements taken as of noon yesterday by five monitoring
devices at Kyoto University’s  Reactor Institute  in Kumatori,
southern Osaka, show radiation in the city remained at normal
levels, Tomoyuki Takahashi, a researcher, said by telephone. The
government of the prefecture on March 15 asked the institute,
which doesn’t disclose precise figures, to report radiation
levels hourly, he said.  Cooling Nuclear Plant  Military helicopters are dumping water on a pool storing
spent fuel at the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi power station No.
3 reactor to cool uranium and plutonium rods that two nuclear
regulators overseas said were exposed and could be spewing
radiation. The complex is located 135 miles north of Tokyo.    SAP AG (SAP) , the world’s biggest business software company, said
it has reserved 520 rooms in Osaka and Kobe that employees and
their families can use. Austria’s ambassador in Japan is leaving
Tokyo because of the reactors’ “unpredictability” and will
work from Osaka, the state-run Austrian Press Agency reported.
The German government said it is moving part of its embassy
operations to Osaka.  The 292-room  Ritz-Carlton Osaka  had “a substantial
increase in the hotel occupancy rate,” said Mutsuko Akesaka, a
spokeswoman for the hotel. “Many of our guests are families
with children from the Tokyo Metropolitan area.”  The surge in visitors may be an added boost for Osaka,
where the biggest building boom in two decades include the
construction of a  business and shopping complex  that will add 6
million square feet (557,000 square meters) of space.  Diversifying to Osaka  Over the years, companies including Resona Holdings Inc.,
the banking units of  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306)  and  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  moved their headquarters to
Tokyo from Osaka.  “Companies will have to seek to diversify their
allocation,” said Tomohiko Sawayanagi, Tokyo-based managing
director of Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels. “Many corporations may
want to keep functions in Osaka if anything similar to this
happens again.”  Divio Osaka got “more than usual” inquiries since March
15, said Haruka Nakatani, a manager at the property. The 14-room
serviced residence is fully booked until April, compared with
its average occupancy rate of 70 percent, she said.  “Many of the inquiries are from families with children and
some even with pets,” Nakatani said. “We had to turn them
away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  