-- 
Parmalat Shares Jump as Intesa, Foreign Funds Compete for Directors List

-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 
2011-03-17T13:58:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/parmalat-shares-jump-as-intesa-foreign-funds-compete-for-directors-list.html
  Parmalat SpA (PLT) , Italy’s largest dairy
company, rose the most in almost three years in Milan trading,
after  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and foreign funds proposed competing
lists of directors before a deadline tomorrow.  Parmalat shares climbed as much as 25 cents, or 10 percent,
to 2.73 euros, the biggest intraday jump since June 2008, and
traded at 2.61 euros as of 2:56 p.m.  “There’s likely stake building before the deadline to
present the list of directors,” said Gianluca Codagnone, head
of Fidentiis Equities Milan. “The stock already incorporates a
little takeover premium at this price.”  Intesa Sanpaolo Chief Executive Officer  Corrado Passera 
said yesterday that Italy’s second-biggest bank would propose
candidates led by current CEO Enrico Bondi for Parmalat’s board.
That sent the shares up 4.2 percent yesterday. More than 100
million shares changed hands, or 6 percent of the company’s
capital, more than eight times the six-month average volume.
Intesa Sanpaolo owns 2.15 percent of Parmalat, it said in a
statement through the Italian exchange today.  Mackenzie Financial Corp., Skagen AS and Zenit Asset
Management AB, which together owned 15.3 percent of Parmalat as
of March 11, proposed a new board on that date that didn’t
include Bondi. Parmalat holds its annual meeting from April 12,
when the board’s election takes place. The deadline to present
lists is March 18, according to a company  document .  Parmalat has recovered about 2 billion euros ($2.8 billion)
in so-called clawback legal settlements from banks and auditors
that it accused of sustaining the fraud that led to the company
filing  Italy ’s biggest corporate bankruptcy in 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net 
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  