-- 
Using Hookers to Spread Syphilis Isn’t Worst of It: Ann Woolner

-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 
2011-03-17T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/paying-women-to-pass-syphilis-isn-t-worst-of-it-commentary-by-ann-woolner.html
When government scientists came up
with the following idea, someone in the room should have said,
“You want to do WHAT?”  No one did, and so the  U.S. Public Health Service  in 1946
began paying diseased prostitutes to visit Guatemalan prisoners
and infect them with syphilis.  If the women weren’t already carrying the deadly disease,
the U.S. government gave it to them to pass along.  Still, the infection rate among the prisoners wasn’t as
high as hoped, darn it.  Determined to get a large enough sample of diseased
inmates, researchers tried other, more painful means, as you
will see. Some of that is now laid out in a lawsuit seven
Guatemalans filed this week against U.S. officials.  It was an atrocious program, all now admit. Apologies from
the president on down have been sweeping and on-target. A new
presidential commission is investigating that program and, gulp,
others.  But words aren’t compensation, and hence the suit. Lawyers
hope to make it into a class action for the hundreds of
Guatemalans -- or their heirs -- who were unwittingly made a
part of the experiment.  The Guatemala program came to light last year after a
Wellesley College professor,  Susan Reverby , happened upon
evidence of it while researching another atrocity, the now-
notorious project at the Tuskegee Institute in  Alabama .  Cure Withheld  In that one, the Public Health Service offered free medical
care to 600 syphilitic, black sharecroppers, who were largely
illiterate, so the government could track the disease, beginning
in 1932.  The tragedy was that the no one ever told the men what they
had, and no one ever treated them. By the mid-1940s, scientists
saw that penicillin cured syphilis, but the health service made
sure that none of it went to the  Tuskegee men .  For the next 25 years researchers kept watching the
Alabamans sicken and die until publicity in 1972 shut the
program down.  At least the Tuskegee subjects had contracted the disease
on their own, with no help from the government. Not so in  Guatemala , where a U.S. program purposefully infected healthy
men and women with the debilitating disease without their
consent or knowledge. The aim of the experiment was to find a
way to prevent syphilis, oddly enough.  Still, most of the Guatemalans fared better in the long-
run. While the disease was killing the Alabamans under the
watchful eye of government researchers, the same agency was
giving penicillin to the Guatemalans they had infected.  Producing Infections  To most of them, at any rate. Reverby’s research shows that
about 14 percent weren’t given an adequate dose, and follow-up
was spotty.  And that was after researchers had used invasive and
painful techniques to infect some of the subjects because the
prostitutes (whose prison visits were legal) produced too few
infections.  Trying a more direct approach, researchers scraped the
penises of male prisoners and applied a strain of the disease to
the area. For female inmates, modesty limited the scraping to
exposed areas such as forearms and faces.  Still unhappy with the results, the program began the
scrape-and-infect technique with institutionalized mental
patients in Guatemala. At one point, Guatemalan soldiers were
used as subjects, who were paired with prostitutes.  Evolving Ethics  The lawsuit aims to represent any victims still living, as
well as family members. Plus, there were hundreds of Guatemalan
orphans subjected to blood tests -- but not infection -- as part
of the research. The claim seeks to draw them into the
plaintiffs’ class, too.  The litigation, the government apologies and the outrage
that Reverby’s research touched off show an evolution in medical
ethics. No one much complained when studies related to the
Tuskegee program were published time and again until the 1970s.  The Guatemala project was kept secret, and those behind it
were aware it would be controversial if disclosed, according to
Reverby’s research.  A certain consciousness raising took place in the 1940s
when Nazis went to trial for  war crimes  because of their medical
experiments on Jews. New international law forbade that sort of
thing.  But to whatever degree medical ethics were evolving, it was
happening slowly.  It didn’t stop researchers from infecting mentally retarded
children at a state school on  Staten Island ,  New York , with
hepatitis from 1963 to 1966, as the  Associated Press  reported.  Congressional Hearings  Nor did it prevent scientists from injecting cancer cells
into 19 chronically ill elderly people at a  Brooklyn , New York,
hospital in 1963.  And it didn’t happen quickly enough to cure the Alabamans
of their syphilis.  It was only when the Washington Star and New York Times ran
an AP story about Tuskegee that outrage prompted congressional
hearings and new laws and standards.  The government also paid compensation to Tuskegee subjects
and their family members, which is what the Guatemalans are
seeking.  The  Justice Department  isn’t discussing the suit, but the
case will have some hurdles to jump to succeed, not the least of
which is governmental immunity.  It shouldn’t take a lawsuit for the U.S. to do the right
thing. While the government is apologizing for what it’s done,
it should acknowledge the wrongdoing with compensation for those
who were made sick and for the family members who suffered
because of it.    Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  