-- 
Pegas Rallies From Lowest Since November on Ebitda Guidance

-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-03-17T16:37:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/pegas-had-4th-quarter-net-on-strong-production-currency-1-.html
  Pegas Nonwovens SA (PEGAS)  jumped from its
lowest in 3 1/2 months after the Czech maker of special textiles
used in hygiene products and health care said it expects growth
in earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization.  The Znojmo, Czech Republic-based company rallied as much as
3.2 percent and closed up 0.6 percent at 428.6 koruna by 4:24
p.m. in Prague. The stock fell in the previous four sessions,
closing at its lowest level since Nov. 30 yesterday.  Fourth-quarter profit was 3.5 million euros ($4.8 million),
compared with a loss of 1.3 million euros a year earlier, as
sales rose 29 percent to 38.9 million euros, Pegas said today.
Ebitda may rise between 2 percent and 7 percent this year and
total capital expenditure for building a new production line
will “not exceed” 32 million euros, the company said.  “The reported figures are in line with expectations” and
“the better-than-expected outlook and the lower costs are
positive,” analysts led by Milan Vanicek at Atlantik FT
brokerage wrote in a report today. “We expect a positive market
reaction.”  Prague-based Atlantik had projected the 2011 Ebitda to drop
4.3 percent and expected the costs associated with the new
production line to reach 50 million euros, according to the
research note to clients.  ‘Sold Out’  Pegas, which makes nonwoven fabrics mainly for hygiene
products, construction and medical industries, started 2011 with
a “sold out” production capacity, the company said, adding it
noticed a “pressure on prices” in sales negotiations for 2011.  The company expects to open the new production line in
southeastern  Czech Republic  in the third quarter, according to
the statement. The company now operates two plants with eight
production lines in the Czech Republic, supplying some 70,000
tons of non-woven textiles annually.  Pegas is considering either a new investment outside  Europe 
to boost “organic growth” or potential takeover opportunities,
Chief Executive Officer Frantisek Rezac told reporters in Prague
today. The company plans to announce a decision between the two
options in the second quarter, Rezac said.  Volatility in polymer prices will affect profitability in
2011 individual quarters and price indexes are currently
experiencing “significant” growth compared with the end of
2010, Pegas said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in  Prague  at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  