-- 
Pentagon Sends Boeing Radiation-Detection Plane to Japan on Nuclear Crisis

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-03-17T23:06:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/pentagon-sends-radiation-detection-plane-to-monitor-japan-s-nuclear-crisis.html
The Pentagon is sending a  Boeing
Co. (BA)  plane, equipped to detect radioactive “clouds” from
nuclear tests, to sample air for radiation from the damaged
Fukushima nuclear plant in  Japan .  The WC-135W Constant Phoenix, a modified Boeing C-135, has
equipment designed to collect particulates and whole-air
samples, according to the U.S.  Air Force . The craft, similar in
size to a Boeing 707 airliner, usually is used for monitoring
required by the 1963 Limited Nuclear Test Ban Treaty, which
prohibits above-ground nuclear weapons testing.  “I can confirm the WC-135 has deployed to the Pacific
region,” said Major Chad Steffey, a spokesman for the Air
Force, in an e-mail yesterday.  The deployment steps up the U.S. military’s humanitarian
and technical assistance to Japan after the March 11 earthquake,
tsunami and the worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl. The
Defense Department has deployed more than a dozen ships and
their aircraft for humanitarian relief as well as equipment and
personnel to help with the nuclear crisis.  A  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  Global Hawk drone also flew over
the 40-year-old power station at Fukushima, about 135 miles (220
kilometers) north of Tokyo, to collect data. Air Force Secretary
Michael Donley said after a congressional hearing in  Washington 
yesterday that it won’t be the last mission.  Water Cannons  Water cannons may have had some success in cooling one
reactor at the damaged Fukushima plant, owned by Tokyo Electric
Power Co. The United Nations nuclear agency said the situation
remained “very serious.”  The existence of the WC-135W stems from orders given by
General Dwight D. Eisenhower, who commissioned a program in 1947
for detecting atomic explosions. A WB-29 flying between Alaska
and Japan in September 1949 detected nuclear debris from  Russia ’s first atomic test, according to the Air Force.  WB-50s were first converted in 1950 for air-sampling
missions, and the WC-135W replaced the WB-50 in 1965.  The WC-135W’s cockpit crew is from the 45th Reconnaissance
Squadron at Offutt Air Force Base in Nebraska. The personnel
operating the equipment are from the Air Force Technical
Applications Center at the base.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 