-- 
Penthouse Owner FriendFinder Networks Revives IPO Plan

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-04-27T21:05:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/penthouse-owner-friendfinder-networks-revives-plan-for-u-s-ipo.html
(Corrects name and location of Ladenburg Thalmann in fifth
paragraph of story that originally ran March 17.)  FriendFinder Networks Inc., the
publisher of Penthouse magazine, revived plans for a U.S.
initial public offering after postponing an attempt to raise as
much as $240 million in an IPO last year.  The  Boca Raton , Florida-based operator of websites
including AdultFriendFinder.com and Cams.com didn’t say how much
it intends to raise, in a filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission today.  FriendFinder is one of eight companies to announce plans
for IPOs on U.S. exchanges this week, even as a global selloff
in stocks has damped demand for new equity, prompting companies
from Europe to Japan to push back share sales. A deepening
crisis in Japan following its March 11 earthquake and unrest in
the Middle East have roiled global markets, threatening an
expansion in U.S. IPOs this year that  Barclays Plc (BARC)  has predicted
may reach 35 percent compared with 2010.  FriendFinder, which unsuccessfully bid to take over
Chicago-based Playboy Enterprises Inc. last year, intends to use
proceeds from the IPO to repay debt, it said in its filing.  Imperial Capital Group Inc. of  Los Angeles  and Ladenburg
Thalmann Financial Services Inc. of Miami are named as the lead
underwriters in the filing, replacing Renaissance Capital of
Moscow and Ledgemont Capital Group LLC in  New York , which led
the previous IPO attempt.  FriendFinder’s filing comes after Cornerstone OnDemand Inc.
yesterday raised 18 percent more than it sought in its IPO. The
Santa Monica, California-based provider of training software to
businesses raised $137 million selling 10.5 million shares at
$13 each, above the marketed range.  The volume of U.S. IPOs this year has more than tripled to
$13.4 billion from the year-earlier period, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Lagardere SCA (MMB) , France’s largest publisher, said yesterday
it’s delaying the initial share sale of its Canal Plus  France 
stake because of market volatility after the earthquake, while
TUI AG may push back an offering of its stake in container line
Hapag-Lloyd, three people familiar with the matter said.
Japanese drugmaker RaQualia Pharma Inc. also delayed a share
sale this week, citing market conditions following the disaster.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 