-- 
PetroChina Plans to Add Oil, Gas Assets as Japan Earthquake Boosts Demand

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-18T04:36:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/petrochina-s-profit-rises-on-crude-prices-fuel-demand-beating-estimates.html
PetroChina Co. pledged to
accelerate acquisitions of energy assets and develop the
country’s domestic natural gas resources as demand for the fuel
rises following  Japan ’s nuclear reactor crisis.  “We will accelerate our global expansion,” PetroChina
President Zhou Jiping said at a media briefing in Hong Kong
yesterday, after the company posted a record quarterly profit.
“The nuclear plant closure in Japan will boost its demand for
oil and gas. That will have a pretty big impact as Japan is the
world’s largest liquefied natural gas importer.”    Gas prices  rose to a two-year high in  Europe  after the
March 11 temblor crippled Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant,
triggering the worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl.
PetroChina bought a $5.4 billion stake in Encana Corp.’s Cutbank
Ridge shale-gas assets last month and is intensifying
exploration to supply the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  “What is happening in Japan means China will use more
fossil fuels in coming years than originally planned,” said  Neil Beveridge , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in Hong
Kong. “China will have to speed up the development of its gas
resources at home and look for more resources overseas.”  PetroChina’s gas output rose 5.2 percent in 2010, more than
three times as fast as the 1.7 percent gain in crude production.
The company aims to boost output of gas by 10.4 percent this
year, compared with 3.3 percent for oil, Vice President Sun Longde said at the media briefing. Proven gas reserves climbed
3.6 percent last year, while those for crude rose 0.1 percent.  Shares Rise  The shares increased 18 percent in the past 12 months in  Hong Kong  trading, compared with the 5.3 percent gain in the
benchmark  Hang Seng  index. PetroChina, rated a “buy” by 17 of
31 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, climbed 2.9 percent to
HK$10.76 by the lunchtime trading break. The Hang Seng gained
0.75 percent.  Fourth-quarter profit gained 81 percent to 39.96 billion
yuan ($6.1 billion), according to calculations made by
subtracting nine-month earnings from the 2010 net income. That
beat the previous record of 39.89 billion yuan in the third
quarter of 2008.  The company didn’t give fourth-quarter figures in its
earnings statement. Mao Zefeng, PetroChina’s Beijing-based
spokesman, didn’t reply to two phone calls today seeking
comment.  Full-year profit climbed 35 percent to 140 billion yuan,
surpassing a mean estimate of 135.7 billion yuan in a Bloomberg
survey of 17 analysts. PetroChina gained as the Chinese economy
grew at its fastest pace in three years, boosting fuel demand
and helping drive a 15 percent advance in New York crude prices
in 2010.  Japan Impact    China  suspended approvals for nuclear projects and  Germany 
ordered the closure of seven atomic plants as Japan’s nuclear
crisis escalated and authorities scrambled to contain
radioactive pollution. U.K. natural-gas contracts rose 75 pence
a therm on March 16, the highest since November 2008.  “There will be a continued growth momentum in China’s oil
and gas demand even if we don’t consider the impact of the Japan
earthquake,” Zhou said. “There’s tremendous demand for natural
gas in China, providing a huge potential for PetroChina.”  China, the world’s biggest polluter, is seeking to triple
the use of cleaner-burning gas to about 10 percent of energy
consumption by 2020 and reduce dependence on coal. Gas demand
may rise to 230 billion cubic meters in 2015 from 130 billion
cubic meters this year, PetroChina’s state-controlled parent
China National Petroleum Corp. said in a report on Jan. 20.  Overseas Gas  PetroChina has spent $9.2 billion since the start of last
year on assets. In February 2010, China’s biggest oil and gas
producer paid C$1.9 billion ($1.9 billion) for a 60 percent
stake in Athabasca Oil Sands Corp.’s MacKay River and Dover oil-
sands projects, the Chinese company’s largest overseas deal
until it was surpassed by the Encana transaction.  “We will step up the exploration and development of
natural gas and increase the imports of LNG,” Zhou said. “We
will also tap unconventional gases like tight gas, shale gas and
coal-bed methane.”  The company wants half its oil and gas to come from abroad
by 2020, Chairman Jiang Jiemin said in March last year.
PetroChina currently gets less than a tenth of its production
from overseas.    Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and PetroChina completed the purchase
of Brisbane-based coal-bed gas producer Arrow Energy Ltd. for
A$3.5 billion ($3.4 billion) in August to help the Chinese
company develop China’s reserves of the fuel.  Exploration and production accounted for 68 percent of
PetroChina’s 2009 operating income, which excludes taxes and
interest payments. Refining and chemicals had an 11 percent
share that year.  Overall profit in 2011 may rise to 158 billion yuan, partly
on higher  oil prices , according to a mean estimate of 16
analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  --John Duce, Wang Ying and  Paul Gordon . With assistance from
Chua Baizhen in Beijing and Winnie Zhu in  Shanghai . Editors:
Ryan Woo, Jonas Bergman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Duce in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net ;  Wang Ying  in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Gordon in Hong Kong at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 