-- 
Pfizer Baby Food Unit Gets $6.8 Billion in Mead Model: Real M&A

-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 
2011-03-17T21:27:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/pfizer-baby-food-unit-gets-6-8-billion-in-mead-model-real-m-a.html
  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  investors are pushing
for a spinoff of the drugmaker’s nutrition business that would
command a price tag of $6.8 billion and deliver more than twice
the gains of the U.S. stock market.    Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN) , the baby-formula maker that  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  took public in February 2009, now
trades at 23.1 times adjusted earnings, more than twice the
valuation of its former parent or Pfizer, after a 133 percent
surge through yesterday that beat the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index’s 52 percent rise, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Applying Mead Johnson’s profit margins and valuations
to Pfizer’s own nutrition unit, which had $1.87 billion in sales
last year, would give it a market value of $6.8 billion.  While Bristol-Myers outperformed U.S. drugmakers by 20
percentage points since announcing plans for Mead Johnson’s
initial public offering in April 2008, Pfizer fell in the same
period and has the third-lowest price-to-earnings valuation of
S&P 500 pharmaceutical companies, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Investors are pressing Pfizer’s Chief Executive Officer
Ian Read to slim down the company and focus on new drugs as it
faces the loss of exclusivity for its Lipitor cholesterol pill.  “Who wouldn’t want a repeat of Mead Johnson?” said  Les Funtleyder , a New York-based fund manager at Miller Tabak & Co.,
which owns Pfizer shares. “Investors and shareholders are
pushing for value-creating strategies.”  Today’s Trading  Pfizer shares climbed 58 cents, or 3 percent, to $19.88 on
the New York Stock Exchange today. The gain was the largest
among the 52 companies in the S&P 500 Health Care Index and the
second-biggest in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  Bristol-Myers advanced 46 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $25.43,
while Mead Johnson fell 45 cents, or 0.8 percent, to $55.36.  Joan Campion, a spokeswoman for New York-based Pfizer, said
the company is conducting a strategic review of each of its
units. No decision has been made about the future of the
nutritional business, she said. The unit was acquired by the
world’s largest drugmaker in the $68 billion purchase of Wyeth
in 2009.  Pfizer and Mead Johnson both make infant formula and
nutrition drinks for children and expecting mothers as
burgeoning middle classes in emerging markets drive demand.
Overall sales of baby food in  Asia , Latin America and Eastern
Europe more than doubled from 2005 to 2010, according to
Euromonitor, a London-based research firm.  Mead Johnson, which analysts project will post a 20 percent
increase in net profit this year, has a market capitalization of
$11.4 billion. Its 133 percent rally from Feb. 10, 2009, through
yesterday outstripped the 33 percent advance in the S&P 500’s
gauge of 41 companies that sell consumer staples from foods to
household products, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Positive Development’  The spinoff was “a positive development for the company,”
Chris Perille, a spokesman for Glenview, Illinois-based Mead
Johnson, said in a telephone interview. “We have been better
able to invest for growth in our business than would have been
possible as part of a larger pharmaceutical company.”  The maker of the Enfamil infant formula turned every dollar
of sales into 14.4 cents of profit last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Applying Mead Johnson’s profit margin and
share price valuation of 25.2 times net income to the $1.87
billion of revenue posted last year by Pfizer’s nutritional unit
would produce a market value of $6.8 billion, the data show.  Mead Johnson offers a guide for the valuation that Pfizer’s
unit may command because they offer similar products and compete
in many of the same markets, according to  Linda Bannister , an
analyst at  Edward Jones  & Co. in Des Peres,  Missouri .  Emerging Markets  Selling the nutrition business would be a change of
strategy for Pfizer. The company diversified by buying Wyeth to
add biologic drugs, consumer and animal health products and baby
formula. It also boosted sales in emerging markets such as  China ,  India  and  Brazil  to 18 percent of the company’s revenue
under Jeffery Kindler, who Read replaced in December.  Mead Johnson’s revenue of $3.14 billion last year outpaced
Pfizer’s unit by 68 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “If they spin out nutritionals and get a Mead Johnson-type
price, it would add value to Pfizer shareholders,” Barbara Ryan, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in  New York , said in an
interview. “The question is: what are the business costs in
terms of Pfizer building its emerging-market platform?”  Bristol-Myers climbed 17 percent through yesterday since
saying on April 24, 2008, that it planned an IPO for Mead
Johnson. That compared with a 3.3 percent drop for the S&P 500’s
gauge of 11 pharmaceutical companies and a 2.9 percent decline
for Pfizer, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Bristol-Myers still
trades at 11.4 times profit, less than half of Mead Johnson’s
valuation.  Mead Johnson Stake  The drugmaker said in November 2009 that it would separate
its remaining 83 percent stake in Mead Johnson in a tax-free
transaction that retired 270 million Bristol-Myers shares and
reduced dividend obligations by $335 million a year.  The split off of Mead Johnson “was a key part of our
biopharma strategy,” Jennifer Mauer, a spokeswoman for New
York-based Bristol-Myers, said in a phone interview. “It allows
all of the company efforts and resources to be focused on
developing medicines for serious diseases.”  The move was part of former CEO James Cornelius’ strategy
to shed non-pharmaceutical businesses and build up the pipeline
of experimental drugs through partnerships and acquisitions.  Bristol-Myers will have generic competition next year for
its Plavix blood thinner, which generates about a third of the
company’s revenue.  Lipitor Pill  Pfizer faces the loss of exclusivity of its biggest drug,
the Lipitor cholesterol pill, which accounts for about 16
percent of its sales, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
company forecasts revenue may fall as much as 2.7 percent this
year as the pipeline of experimental drugs fails to offset lower
sales of Lipitor.  Pfizer may sell businesses that account for almost half of
its revenue,  Tim Anderson , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein
& Co. in New York, wrote in a March 14 report. The company may
divest four non-pharmaceutical businesses as well as its
established products group, reducing sales to $35 to $40 billion
from $67 billion, he said.  The nutrition unit would be an easy candidate since its
products don’t match up with the rest of Pfizer’s offerings and
the business was acquired recently, Anderson wrote.    Nestle SA (NESN)  of Vevey,  Switzerland , or Paris-based  Danone (BN)  may
be interested in purchasing Pfizer’s nutrition unit after a
spinoff, according to a note in January from Catherine Arnold,
an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in New York. Any deal may
trigger anti-trust restrictions, she said.  Nestle, Danone  Robin Tickle, a spokesman for Nestle, didn’t return a
request for comment after business hours. Sabrina Schneider, a
spokeswoman for Danone, declined to comment.  If Pfizer were to sell its baby-formula division, it may be
worth more than $7 billion, based on Mead Johnson’s earnings and
previous deals in the pharmaceutical industry, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Mead Johnson generates 24.7 cents of earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for every $1 of
sales. At that level Pfizer’s unit would have posted Ebitda of
about $461.7 million last year. Based on the median multiple of
15.4 times Ebitda for U.S. pharmaceutical takeovers greater than
$1 billion in the last 10 years, the nutrition company may fetch
$7.1 billion, the data show.  Eli Lilly  Pfizer’s shares traded at 8.5 times profit. That was the
third-lowest of any company in the S&P 500 Pharmaceuticals
Index, after  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX)  of New York and
Indianapolis-based  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , which were valued at 7 times
profit, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Bristol shareholders are now also shareholders of Mead
Johnson, and Mead Johnson has performed fabulously well,” said
Edward Jones’ Bannister. “Pfizer unlocking some value, making
the company smaller: I think that is a good idea and those are
welcome moves from a shareholder perspective.”  There have been 4,788 deals announced globally this year,
totaling $467.1 billion, a 12 percent increase from the $416.7
billion in the same period in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 