-- 
Philippine Stocks Fall Most in a Month on Japan, Mideast Concern

-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 
2011-03-17T03:59:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/philippine-stocks-fall-most-in-a-month-on-japan-mideast-concern.html
Philippine stocks fell, with the
benchmark index set to drop the most in a month, on speculation
growth will slow as  Japan  reels from the effects of an
earthquake while Middle East unrest threatens remittances from
overseas workers.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index fell 1.5 percent to
3,819.77 as of 11:49 a.m. local time, on course for the biggest
retreat since Feb. 10.  Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co. (TEL) ,
the nation’s biggest company by market value, fell 3.2 percent
to 2,004 pesos as of 11:23 a.m. Manila time, set for its lowest
close in almost two years.  SM Prime Holdings Inc. (SMPH) , the largest
mall operator, fell 4.1 percent to 10.80 pesos.  An earthquake and tsunami that struck Japan on March 11 may
cause damage of as much as 10 trillion yen ($126 billion), or 2
percent of gross domestic product, close to the damage caused by
the Kobe earthquake in 1995, Citigroup Inc. said in a report
dated yesterday. Japan was the biggest buyer of Philippine goods
last year, accounting for 15 percent of total exports, according
to data from the  National Statistics Office .  “People are staying on the sidelines as far as the
Philippine market is concerned given risks in the global
environment, such as the series of events in Japan and the
tension in the Middle East,” said Jonathan Ravelas, market
strategist at Banco de Oro Unibank Inc.  About half of the  Philippines ’ estimated 4 million overseas
workers are in the Middle East, Labor Secretary Rosalinda Baldoz
said on Feb. 25. The Gulf region accounts for about 30 percent
of overseas remittances, central bank Governor Amando Tetangco
said this month.  Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s warplanes bombed the
Benghazi airport, rebels said, bringing the war to the
opposition capital for the first time since loyalist forces were
driven out of the city last month. In Bahrain, security forces
drove protesters from their rallying point at the Pearl
Roundabout in Manama leaving two demonstrators and two police
officers dead.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at   cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  