-- 
Philippine Peso Slides as Mideast Tensions Threaten Remittances

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-03-17T08:46:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/philippine-peso-slides-as-mideast-tensions-threaten-remittances.html
The Philippine peso dropped to a
six-week low on concern political tensions in the Middle East
will spur an exodus of Filipino workers from the region, hurting
remittances.  Government bonds  advanced.  Security forces clashed with anti-government protesters in
Bahrain yesterday, leaving two demonstrators and two police
officers dead, and  Libya ’s air force bombed rebels. Uprisings
have already led to the ouster of leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt 
this year. The Gulf region accounts for about 30 percent of
overseas remittances, central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said
this month.  “The market is worried about the impact of the Middle East
tension on remittances,” said Marcelo Ayes, a Manila-based
senior vice president at Rizal Commercial Banking Corp. “Things
are getting worse and may affect demand for jobs.”  The peso dropped 0.4 percent to close at 43.912 per dollar
in  Manila , according to Tullett Prebon Plc. It touched 44.01,
the weakest level since Feb. 2, as a worsening radiation leak at
a nuclear power plant in  Japan  prompted investors to favor safer
bets than emerging-market assets.  Remittances from Filipinos living overseas rose 7.6 percent
from a year earlier in January, the smallest gain in eight
months, official figures show. The funds, which totaled a record
$18.76 billion in 2010, account for more than a 10th of the
Philippine economy.  The Philippines’ benchmark three-year bonds climbed to a
six-week high. The yield on the 6.25 percent bond due January
2014 slid three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 5.15
percent, according to Tradition Financial Services. That’s the
lowest rate since Feb. 8.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 