-- 
Pimco Hasn’t Seen Redemptions from Asia After Earthquake, El-Erian Says

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-03-17T18:24:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/pimco-hasn-seen-no-redemptions-from-asia-after-japan-quake-el-erian-says.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
the world’s biggest manager of bond funds, hasn’t seen
redemptions from Asia investors following last week’s earthquake
in  Japan , Chief Executive Officer Mohamed El-Erian said.  “It’s too early,” as the immediate effect is to worry
about the human consequences first, El-Erian said on Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness” in an interview with Margaret Brennan. “There is a period of shock until people fully
understand the enormity of what happened.”  While there is still uncertainty about how Japan will
finance rebuilding, Pimco anticipates the Japanese recovery will
be paid for by “a mix of both borrowing by the government
including monetization and repatriation,” El Erian said.  The yen strengthened for a fifth day on speculation Japan
will delay intervention to limit the currency’s advance to
counter the repatriation of assets by insurers and investors
seeking to pay for damages after the nation’s worst earthquake.  Investors shouldn’t take “shortcuts” and compare the
economic fallout from the disaster in Japan with a 1995
earthquake in the city of Kobe, El-Erian said. The wider
magnitude of this disaster, the increased debt load Japan holds
and uncertainty about how the recovery will be paid for and the
turmoil from the Middle East makes it incomparable, he said.  “This is a much bigger event,” he said in the telephone
interview. “Japan is in a different place.”  ‘Major Development’  Investors should not assume that the economic effects on
global growth from the events in Japan will be temporary and
reversible, he added. Pimco, based in  Newport Beach ,  California ,
oversees more than $1 trillion in assets.  “We should not assume” the disaster “has a transitory
effect on the global economy,” El-Erian said. “This is a major
development that has economic implications in addition to the
human suffering.”  El-Erian, in an opinion article today for Bloomberg, said
he’s skeptical of the  Federal Reserve ’s upgraded outlook for
growth and inflation in the U.S. The Fed may not have commented
on Japan because it lacked the information required for an
informed outlook and the uncertainty that prevails after such
disasters, he wrote.  Economic Outlook  “The economic recovery is on a firmer footing, and overall
conditions in the labor market appear to be improving
gradually,” the  Federal Open Market Committee  said March 15 in a
statement. The inflation effects of increased commodity costs
will be “transitory,” and officials “will pay close attention to
the evolution of inflation and inflation expectations,” the Fed
said.  The yen gained 0.6 percent to 78.09 per dollar at 2:23 p.m.
after touching 76.36, the strongest level since the development
of the current foreign-exchange system following World War II.  There have been more than 450 aftershocks since the
magnitude-9 temblor kills thousands, left hundreds of thousands
stranded without power, with disruptions to food and water
supplies. The Japanese government has dispatched 100,000 troops
to the northeastern region.  Tokyo Electric’s failure to end the threat of radiation
from the six-reactor Fukushima plant has prompted the U.S. to
advise citizens to consider leaving  Tokyo .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  