-- 
Zloty Boost as Polish Output, Producer Price Growth Top February Estimates

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l   a n d   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 
2011-03-17T13:17:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/polish-output-producer-price-growth-top-february-estimates-boost-zloty.html
Polish industrial output growth
accelerated in February on demand from the euro area while
producer prices jumped, boosting the zloty on expectations
domestic borrowing costs may rise.  Industrial output advanced an annual 10.7 percent, compared
with 10.3 percent in January, the  Central Statistical Office 
said today. The result was the fourth month of double-digit
output growth and exceeded the median estimate of 10.3 percent
in a Bloomberg survey of 21 economists. Production rose 3.5
percent on the month.  “Strong growth of the purchasing managers’ index in  Germany  and the  euro zone  is a positive signal for domestic
manufacturing,” economists at Bank Zachodni WBK wrote in an e-
mailed comment before the data release.  European manufacturing growth accelerated to the fastest in
more than 10 years in February, while European confidence in the
economic outlook jumped to the highest in more than three years,
driven by German companies, which are increasing investment and
hiring to meet booming export orders.  Polish companies deliver
components to German manufacturers, their main trading partners.  Poland’s business-confidence index rose in February, the  Central Statistical Office  reported on Feb. 21, boosted by
accelerating car production, which grew 2.3 percent in February
from a year earlier.  Zloty Gains  The Polish zloty extended gains after the output data,
strengthening to 4.0785 against the euro at 2:11 p.m. in Warsaw,
up 0.5 percent on the day.  Producer prices, an early indicator of inflationary trends,
grew 7.3 percent in February from the year before, the highest
rate in at least six years. That compares with the 6.7 percent
median forecast by 19 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Producer
prices rose 1 percent on the month.  Investors had reduced their bets for an interest-rate
increase next month as forward-rate agreements used to lock in
interest costs indicate the benchmark seven-day rate will remain
unchanged, based on the difference between the three-month FRA
and the Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate to which it settles.  The  Narodowy Bank Polski  in January raised borrowing costs
from a record low, the first increase since June 2008. After
policy makers left rates unchanged on March 2, Governor  Marek Belka  said that more rate increases should be expected as
economic growth boosts wage and price pressures, which may keep
inflation expectations at “elevated” levels.  Consumer prices rose an annual 3.6 percent in February,
below the median forecast of a 3.9 percent increase in a
Bloomberg survey of 24 economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at  