-- 
Porsche Sticking to $7 Billion Stock Sale Timetable Amid Market Volatility

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-03-17T13:44:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/porsche-expects-positive-result-for-year-as-stock-sales-lower-debt-level.html
Porsche SE, the sports-car maker
that plans to merge with  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , said a timetable to sell
5 billion euros ($7 billion) in shares still stands amid the
volatile financial markets following the Japanese earthquake.  “One would probably select an environment that’s different
to the current one” to carry out a sale, Chief Financial
Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch said today at a press conference in
Stuttgart, Germany. That said, there’s “no reason to depart
from the original plan.”  Porsche, which plans to complete the sale by May 30, aims
to cut debt to about 1.5 billion euros with the proceeds. Net
debt at Porsche’s holding company increased to 6.34 billion
euros as of Dec. 31 from 6.05 billion euros on July 31 because
of tax repayments.  The two car manufacturers agreed to combine in August 2009
after Porsche racked up more than 10 billion euros of debt in an
unsuccessful attempt to gain control of VW. European stocks
advanced today, halting a six-day slide, amid speculation Group
of Seven nations will move to calm markets after  Japan ’s
earthquake-induced nuclear crisis.  ‘Window of Opportunity’  “It would be premature to say we can’t proceed with the
stock sale only because the market is down,” said Michael Tyndall, a London-based analyst at  Barclays Capital . “They got
a window of opportunity and the message today was fairly clear:
We’ll go ahead with it.”  Porsche preferred shares rose as much as 3.7 percent, or
1.85 euros, to 52.55 euros and were trading at 52.35 euros as of
2:40 p.m. in  Frankfurt , valuing the sports-car maker at 9.2
billion euros. VW’s preferred shares were up 0.8 percent.  Wolfsburg, Germany-based Volkswagen now owns 49.9 percent
of Porsche’s carmaking operations. Proceeds from the share sale
will help pay back a 2.5 billion-euro  bank loan  expiring at the
end of June.  “Porsche intends to use the target issue volume to
significantly improve its net liabilities,” Poetsch said.
Cutting debt “is a prerequisite for the merger.”  Orders at Porsche’s car-making operations are “high” at
the start of 2011 as demand for models such as the Cayenne
sport-utility vehicle and Panamera sedan is “undiminished,”  Matthias Mueller , the unit’s chief executive officer, said.  Earthquake Impact  Porsche has moved its Japanese headquarters from  Tokyo  to
the Nagoya area, Mueller said. The automaker, which buys
transmissions from Aisin Seiki Co., expected to sell more than
last year’s 3,000 vehicles in the country, he said. Even as
supply chains are intact, it’s too soon to gauge the impact of
the earthquake on future deliveries.  “I’m not ruling out that we will run into problems too,”
VW Chief Executive Officer Martin Winterkorn, who also runs
Porsche’s holding company, said. “At the moment, it doesn’t
look like it, at least not in the near-term period.”  Full-year revenue at Porsche’s auto-making division may
exceed last year’s levels, according to Mueller. The carmaker
posted record revenue of 3.87 billion euros for the August to
December period. Porsche’s holding company expects another
profit in 2011, Poetsch said.  The merger, originally scheduled for completion in the
second half of 2011, will probably be delayed into next year
because of German legal obstacles. An investigation into share-
price manipulation allegations will likely push the deal’s
completion into 2012, Porsche said Feb. 24.  Legal Hurdles  Short sellers of VW stock have sued Porsche in the U.S.,
claiming the carmaker secretly piled up VW shares and later
caused the investors to lose more than $1 billion. At the same
time, institutional investors in  Germany  are seeking 2.5 billion
euros in damages over the matter.  “Of course, we have not cleared all hurdles yet,” Poetsch
said. “However, we can underscore that Porsche assumes that it
will be possible to successfully clarify the current
uncertainties and that the merger will be able to go ahead, even
if this is after 2011.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Stuttgart, Germany, via 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  