-- 
Progress Energy Led U.S. Nuclear Near-Misses, Group Says

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 
2011-03-17T17:18:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/progress-energy-led-u-s-nuclear-near-misses-group-says-1-.html
  Progress Energy Inc. (PGN) , which plans
to merge with  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  to create the largest U.S.
utility owner, led a list of 14 near-misses by U.S. nuclear
plant operators last year, the Union of Concerned Scientists, a
watchdog group, said today in a  report .  Progress, based in Raleigh,  North Carolina , suffered four
accidents at three reactors, the group said today in a report
written by its chief of nuclear safety, David Lochbaum, a former
safety instructor for the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission.  “When the NRC tolerates unresolved safety problems, this
lax oversight allows that risk to rise,” wrote Lochbaum in the
report, which he said is based on NRC data. “The more owners
sweep safety problems under the rug and the longer safety
problems remain uncorrected, the higher the risk climbs.”  The release of the report came as helicopters dropped water
on the stricken Fukushima Daiichi nuclear station north of  Tokyo 
to prevent meltdowns of reactor cores and stored fuel after an
earthquake and tsunami knocked out power and backup generators
March 11, the worst nuclear accident since Ukraine’s Chernobyl
reactor burned in 1986.  Progress was responsible for the most costly event, damage
to concrete walls containing the reactor at the Crystal River
plant in  Florida , which has been shut down for more than a year,
the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based group said.  Meeting Canceled  The NRC said today that it canceled a meeting to discuss
the restart of the Crystal River plant following the discovery
of a new gap in the concrete containment structure. The plant
was shut down in 2009 for a planned refueling outage and during
the work, the company found gaps in the structure.  “We have the highest safety standards for our nuclear
plants and our employees, and we work continuously to improve
safety,” Mike Hughes, a spokesman for Progress, said in an e-
mailed response. “We are taking definitive steps to address the
issues raised and return our fleet to the highest performance
standards.”  The most serious U.S. reactor accident last year occurred
when electrical fires at Progress Energy’s H.B. Robinson plant
in  South Carolina  triggered an unplanned reactor shutdown,
followed by an “incredibly long series of mistakes” by plant
operators that “revisited nearly all the problems” that led to
a partial meltdown at  Pennsylvania ’s Three Mile Island plant 31
years earlier, the report said.  ‘Acting Responsibly’  At  Entergy Corp. (ETR) ’s Indian Point power plant in  New York ,
the NRC has been aware of a leak in the liner of refueling
cavity since 1993 and yet allowed the plant to continue
operating, putting people living in the area at “undue risk,”
Lochbaum wrote. The Indian Point reactor is about 24 miles north
of  New York City .  The liner was installed to prevent leaking of radioactive
material during an earthquake and the chances of that equipment
fulfilling its safety function is “nil,” the report said. The
two Indian Point reactors are near the intersection of two
seismic zones, identified in 2008 by scientists at  Columbia
University ’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, who said a
magnitude 7 earthquake in the region is possible.  “Leakage has been captured, understood, analyzed and
determined to pose no safety issue,” said Jim Steets, a
spokesman for Entergy, in a phone interview. “This is not
leakage into the environment that we’re walking away from. We
are acting responsibly.”  While the  Nuclear Regulatory Commission  “often tolerated
known safety problems,” the inspectors responsible for
detecting potential dangers made “outstanding catches” of
safety issues at other plants, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net  