-- 
Psychopathic Cocaine Smuggler Prides Himself on Business Skills

-- B y   A n d r e w   D u n n
-- 
2011-03-17T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/psychopathic-drug-smuggler-prides-himself-on-business-skills-book-review.html
Forget swallowing condoms full of
cocaine. If you really want to move product, hire a priest.
Better yet: Buy yourself a few slabs of granite.  “ I Am the Market: How to Smuggle Cocaine by the Ton, in
Five Easy Lessons”  by Italian journalist Luca Rastello contains
many such instructions. By turns engrossing, disgusting and
bone-chilling, “I Am the Market” takes a cold look at the
blood-soaked and ridiculously lucrative business of drug
trafficking.  “What confers such power on a form of agricultural
production that is in other respects comparable to others?”
Rastello asks. “The answer is as simple as it is embarrassing:
the artificial difficulty of access to the market at the retail
level. In a word, prohibition.”  After a vignette about a priest who carried coke in his
cassock, Rastello presents a short introduction on the politics
and economics of the modern drug trade, followed by a 150-page
monologue about the craft of moving drugs, ostensibly delivered
by a once-successful but now-imprisoned former smuggler. The
unnamed narrator, possibly from Northern Italy, is a self-styled
“service provider,” who doesn’t grow or peddle cocaine. He
just moves it.  “It may be useful, for once, to suspend all moral
judgment, forget all the cliches, and try to see the world
through the eyes of someone who lives and builds his fortune in
the shadowy zone of the drug cartels,” Rastello writes. This is
a book about logistics, quality management and globalization.  In blunt language, our smuggler describes how  Pablo Escobar 
built a tunnel between  Mexico  and  Texas  and explains why the
mule with a bellyful of coke is supposed to get caught and
distract police (and the press) from much larger shipments.  Pro Wrestler  We meet Bonazzi, a former professional wrestler who would
routinely slay his staff to keep them from talking -- and to
avoid the bother of paying them. Renatino is a dapper convict
who practically takes over a Venezuelan prison before simply
walking out.  All these digressions, however, are merely prelude to the
narrator’s description of his great achievement: “moving drugs
by the ton using the legal economy as your carrier.” To him,
false-bottomed suitcases are quaint and inefficient relics; he
doesn’t miss the days when a drug lord had to bribe an endless
chain of crooked cops and bureaucrats to move drugs on coffee
boats.  Hollow Blocks  Rastello’s smuggler went through the front door: hollowing
out blocks of stone, stacks of tiles or coils of rubber-coated
copper cable; stuffing these ordinary items with drugs; and
loading them into shipping containers. Sometimes the container
itself contained the drugs and the cargo was otherwise perfectly
legal. By forging invoices with the names of reputable
companies, he avoided the scrutiny of customs officials.  The cocaine trade is so profitable, according to Rastello,
that its absence would cause the collapse of entire banking
systems. He cites a 1999 report from the Mexican Center for
Investigation and National Security which concluded that “if
drug smuggling were to be eradicated, the economy of the  United
States  would suffer losses of between 19 and 22 percent.”  After all this, however, you have to ask yourself: Is
Rastello telling the truth (“all absolutely true,” he assures
us)? Is his smuggler a composite of many sources, or the
contrivance of a writer’s imagination? After all, the entire
point of the system is to operate unseen and unnoticed.  “You can’t imagine how great it feels to see all those
policemen of every kind with the same expression on their faces:
‘Who the hell is this guy?’” the smuggler says of his arrest.  His story is so rich with detail, peopled with such vividly
drawn sociopaths and schemers, that it may not matter who this
guy is. Unless you’re interested in getting into the same
business. Then you may want a few references.  “I Am the Market” is published by Faber & Faber (178
pages, $22). To buy this book in North America click  here .    Andrew Dunn  writes for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on the story:
Andrew Dunn in New York at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  