-- 
Eni, Repsol Risk Expulsion From Libyan Oil Fields After Qaddafi’s Advance

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-03-18T10:28:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/qaddafi-advance-poses-eni-expulsion-risk-from-libyan-oil-fields.html
Muammar Qaddafi may expel western
energy companies from Libya should he snuff out the month-old
armed rebellion against his regime, draining money from the
economy and hurting exporters such as  Eni SpA (ENI)  and  Repsol YPF SA. (REP)   Qaddafi, 68, took control of Ras Lanuf and Brega oil
facilities and moved near Benghazi, the center of the rebellion,
as the United Nations Security Council voted to establish a no-
fly zone over Libya.  His threat to bring  China  into the energy business that  Italy  has enjoyed for five decades may reshape the economic map
of the country holding  Africa ’s biggest oil reserves.  “If Qaddafi wins, Libya will look to the east for
support,” said  Shadi Hamid , director of research at the
Brookings Institution’s Doha Center in Qatar, in a telephone
interview. “Western companies won’t get back in any time soon
and won’t be able to invest. The Libyan economy will be
devastated for years.”  Even without outright expropriation, a Qaddafi victory may
lead to Western sanctions that would roll back almost 10 years
of European and U.S. investment in Libya. The 2004 reprieve from
two decades of trade restrictions allowed companies such as  BP
Plc (BP/)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  to invest in Libyan fields,
boosting output to about 1.6 million barrels a day, most of
which was sold to  Europe .  Libya’s oil output slumped to a “trickle” by last week,
according to the  International Energy Agency . The conflict,
which has left hundreds dead, has helped push up Brent crude
prices by about 20 percent this year. Libya’s crude exports may
be halted for “many months” because of damage to oil
facilities and international sanctions, the IEA said this week.  Libyan Crude  Qaddafi threatened to replace western oil firms with
companies from India and China in a March 2 speech and more than
10 days later discussed possible investments with the
ambassadors of the two countries and  Russia , state-run
television reported.  Italian Foreign Minister Franco Frattini told Italian
lawmakers on March 16 that “China’s reasoning is an economic
one” when it comes to Libya.  Rome-based Eni, Italy’s largest oil company,  France ’s  Total
SA (FP)  and  Spain ’s Repsol are among foreign companies that have
evacuated their staff and scaled down production in Libya. More
than 20 percent of the oil imported by Austria, Ireland and
Italy is Libyan crude, the IEA said.  “I don’t consider relations with Libya compromised,” Eni
Chief Executive Officer  Paolo Scaroni  told investors in London
on March 16. “We maintain relations with the national oil
company, which is our natural counterpart.”  Local Population  He said he asked U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton ,
European Union Foreign Policy Chief  Catherine Ashton  and
Frattini to ensure that gas production for the local population
be excluded from any ultimate sanctions against Libya.  Libya will retain all contracts with Eni and honor existing
contracts with foreign companies, Shokri Ghanem, chairman of
National Oil Corp., told Italian news agency Ansa yesterday.  “We have an excellent relationship with Eni, a company
that’s been working here since the 1950s and is among the most
important oil producers in Libya,” he was quoted as saying.  Eni’s shares have fallen almost 10 percent since mid-
February, when anti-Qaddafi protests erupted, inspired by
popular revolts that led to the ouster of Tunisian President
Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and Egyptian leader Hosni Mubarak this
year. Repsol shares have declined 7 percent.    Security Council   United Nations Security Council veto-wielding members China
and Russia have been less critical of Qaddafi than France and
the U.S., whose leaders openly called on the Libyan leader to
go. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Jiang Yu told reporters
yesterday that “the sovereignty and territorial integrity of
Libya should be respected.”  “China is far less interested in the strategic argument
and much more concerned with its economic interests in Africa,”
Frattini told a parliamentary committee in  Rome  on March 16.
“Out of this situation, great doors open for China.”  It may not be that simple, said Elizabeth Cheng, Hong Kong-
based editor of China Hand, a publication of the Economist
Intelligence Unit, by telephone.  “It’s a complicated issue,” she said. “I don’t think
Chinese companies would be expected to make a reckless
decision.” Oil companies would have to consider their relations
with western companies and security in  Libya , as well as
Qaddafi’s ability to maintain power, she said.  Risk Management  China already has a presence in Libya. China National
Petroleum Corp., the country’s biggest oil and gas producer, has
evacuated all its 392 staff in Libya, the company said on Feb.
28. Risk management is being strengthened, said Zhou Jiping, who
is president of PetroChina Co., the country’s biggest energy
producer, and vice president of China National Petroleum, the
parent company, at a Hong Kong earnings press conference
yesterday.  “We will strengthen our cooperation with major resource
countries and big international oil companies to share the
risks,” Zhou said.  Present Libya operations are mostly engineering, he said
without specifying which company he meant.  Qaddafi has kicked out foreign companies before. Three
years after he came to power in a 1969 coup, Qaddafi began
seizing oil fields, giving the state-owned National Oil Corp. at
least 51 percent of all concessions, according to the 2010 Arab
Oil and Gas Report.  A decade later, U.S. President Ronald Reagan, who called
Qaddafi “the mad dog of the Middle East,” banned the import of
Libyan oil and a number of exports to Libya. The U.S. bombed
Tripoli in 1986 in retaliation for an attack on a Berlin
discotheque that killed two U.S. servicemen.  Lockerbie Bombing  Libya came under U.S. and UN sanctions in the 1980s and
1990s over accusations of planning terrorist attacks, including
the 1988 bombing of the Pan American World Airways Boeing Co.
747 over Lockerbie that killed 270 people.  The turnaround in relations with the West started in 1999,
when he allowed the extradition of two Libyan suspects in the
Lockerbie bombing. Qaddafi abandoned a nuclear-arms development
effort after 2002 while also pledging to destroy a chemical
weapons stockpile and renouncing terrorism.  The current conflict “sets everything back many years,”
said Jonathan Stern, director of gas research at the Oxford
Institute of Energy Studies. “There’s always a risk of
expropriation. But the key thing is that Libyans struggled for
25 years under sanctions, and the lesson was that they can’t do
much without outside help.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in  London  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  