-- 
Quicksilver Resources Won’t Be Taken Private by the Dardens

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-03-17T20:09:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/quicksilver-resources-won-t-be-taken-private-by-the-dardens-1-.html
  Quicksilver Resources Inc. (KWK) , the
U.S. oil and natural gas producer whose largest shareholder is
the family of Chief Executive Officer Glenn Darden, won’t be
taken private after a six-month search for backers, Darden said.  The current capital structure and governance “is superior
to an alternate private structure for maximizing Quicksilver
Resources’ exploration and development opportunities,” Darden
said in a statement. The decision doesn’t reflect a change in
“commitment or confidence in” the company, according to the
statement.  Quicksilver announced on Oct. 18 that the Dardens were
considering a buyout, without specifying a value for the
purchase. In February, the Dardens said the expected offer would
be more than $16 a share, valuing the company at more than $2.7
billion. The board on Feb. 24 authorized talks between the
family and SPO Partners LP, the second-largest shareholder, in
an effort to arrange a takeover bid.  “We are not surprised by this decision,”  Scott Hanold , a
San Antonio-based analyst for  RBC Capital Markets , wrote today
in a note to clients. The company’s high debt levels, depressed
natural gas prices, and asset quality ruled out the credible
possibility of a limited buyout, he said.  Quicksilver went public 12 years ago after operating for
more than three decades as a closely held company, most recently
known as Mercury Exploration, run by the Darden family.  The Dardens own 25 percent of Quicksilver Resources through
a private partnership, Quicksilver Energy LP, according to
filings. SPO, a  Mill Valley , California-based investment firm,
holds 17 percent.  Quicksilver fell 52 cents, or 3.6 percent, to $14.07 at
4:00 p.m. in composite trading on the  New York  Stock Exchange.
The shares had risen 16 percent since the company announced the
approach by the Dardens.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net  