-- 
Radiation Testing Weighed for Japanese Food Imports After Quake, U.S. Says

-- B y   J e f f r e y   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-03-17T16:32:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/radiation-testing-weighed-for-japanese-food-imports-u-s-regulators-say.html
U.S. regulators are considering
testing Japanese food imports for  radiation exposure  in response
to that country’s nuclear crisis.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration is monitoring
Japanese food for contamination from radiation leaks at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant and weighing steps that “may
include increased and targeted product sampling,” the agency
said in an e-mailed statement.  Seafood, snack foods and processed produce from Japan
represents less than 4 percent of all food imported into the U.S.
and products already in the country are safe because they
shipped prior to the earthquake and tsunami that triggered
radiation leaks, according to the agency. The FDA and  U.S.
Customs and Border Protection  have the authority to police
imports at ports.  “FDA will be examining both food products labeled as
having originated in  Japan  or having passed through Japan in
transit,” the agency said. “The same is true for raw
ingredients.”  The statement echoes a declaration made by the  United
Nations ’ Food and Agriculture Organization today that only food
near the plant is at risk. Countries nearer to Japan, including  South Korea , Indonesia and  Singapore , are already testing
imports.  Damage to Japan’s infrastructure has “severely limited”
exports from the country and seafood is unlikely to be
contaminated because radiation would be “rapidly and
effectively diluted” by the ocean, the FDA said.  Radiation isn’t the only safety consideration that U.S.
authorities will have to consider, said  Benjamin England ,
founder of  FDAImports.com LLC , a Columbia, Maryland-based firm
that consults with companies importing food, drugs and medical
devices. The natural disasters created unsanitary conditions and
damaged refrigeration capacity, which is likely to cause more
damage than radioactive fallout, he said by telephone Monday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Young in  Washington  at 
 jyoung89@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 