-- 
Rajaratnam Prosecutors Show How He Tapped Inside Sources

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s ,   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-03-17T22:50:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/rajaratnam-prosecutors-show-how-fund-manager-tapped-board-sources.html
Prosecutors in Raj Rajaratnam’s
criminal trial called a witness to help show how the Galleon
Group LLC co-founder allegedly used information from an inside
source to get advance notice of the sale of PeopleSupport Inc.  Lance Rosenzweig, a founder and ex-chairman of
PeopleSupport, testified today in  Manhattan  federal court that
Galleon, owner of 25.5 percent of the outsourcing company’s
shares, placed Krish Panu, a managing partner at the hedge fund,
on the PeopleSupport board in April 2008.  Prosecutors played wiretaps of Panu giving Rajaratnam
confidential information about PeopleSupport and of Rajaratnam
passing tips about the company to his friend Rajiv Goel. In one
recording, Rajaratnam tells Goel about an offer for
PeopleSupport by Essar Group, an Indian company controlled by
billionaire brothers Shashi and Ravi Ruia.  “So the Ruias made a firm bid now,” Rajaratnam told Goel
in a July 30, 2008, phone call, days before the Aug. 4 public
announcement of the deal. “In the amount, 12.25.”  “Oh wonderful, wonderful thanks,” Goel replied.  News of the agreement by Essar Group’s Aegis BPO unit to
pay $12.25 a share for PeopleSupport, or 29 percent more than
the previous closing price, sent the company’s stock up 25
percent.  Rajaratnam, 53, is on trial in the largest crackdown on
hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri Lankan-born
money manager is accused of making $45 million from tips leaked
by corporate insiders and hedge fund traders. He says his trades
were based on legitimate research and denies wrongdoing. Panu
didn’t immediately return a phone message left at his home
today.  Closing Date  In October 2008, when Essar asked to extend the closing
date because of liquidity problems in the world financial
markets, PeopleSupport’s stock price “dropped precipitously,”
Rosenzweig, testified.  On Oct. 7, 2008, while PeopleSupport and Essar negotiated a
closing date, Rajaratnam and Goel spoke again. Rajaratnam said
he bought 30,000 shares of PeopleSupport for Goel’s personal
brokerage account, saying “I’m 100 percent sure.”  “We know because one of our guys is on the board,”
Rajaratnam said on the wiretap. “I can’t buy any more because I
own 25 percent of the company. They have a poison pill, right?”  The next day, when PeopleSupport announced the acquisition
would close Oct. 31, 2008, the shares rose 23 percent.  Earlier the government played a wiretapped recording of
Panu briefing Rajaratnam about the company’s performance and
about Rosenzweig’s secret trip to  India  to meet potential
suitors.  ‘The Good News’  “The good news, Raj, is they’re going to generate free
cash flow 30 million this year,” Panu said in a May 2, 2008,
conversation that the government secretly recorded off of
Rajaratnam’s mobile phone.  Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky  asked Rosenzweig
whether news of his trip to India was public.  “No, it was not,” Rosenzweig testified.  On cross-examination, Rosenzweig told defense attorney
Terence Lynam that he didn’t know anything about Rajaratnam’s
trading in PeopleSupport shares. Lynam questioned whether
Rajaratnam’s Oct. 7, 2008, call contained inside information.  “Everything was still in flux, is that correct?” Lynam
asked, referring to the time of the call, at 1:46 p.m.  “Yes,” Rosenzweig answered.  Three Witnesses  Rosenzweig was the fourth witness summoned by prosecutors
to show how Rajaratnam got inside tips. This morning, Alex Lenke, formerly an investor-relations official at  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,
concluded testifying that Goel, then a treasury executive at the
chipmaker, asked him about the company’s performance in early
2007.  Goel has pleaded guilty in the case and is expected to
testify that he disclosed tips about Intel’s performance.
Brodsky has placed photographs of Goel and Panu on a bulletin
board beside the jury box.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 