-- 
Rand Falls to Two-Year Low Versus Yen as Japan Closures Dims Metal Outlook

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-03-17T14:53:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/rand-falls-to-two-year-low-versus-yen-as-japan-closures-dims-metal-outlook.html
The rand slumped to its lowest in
almost two years against the yen as factory closures in  Japan 
damped the outlook for South  Africa ’s metal exports.  South Africa’s currency declined as much as 5.5 percent to
10.6905 yen per rand, the weakest intraday level since April 15,
2009, and traded 1.7 percent lower at 11.1210 at 4:46 p.m. in
Johannesburg, bringing its decline this week to 6.6 percent.
Against the euro, the rand traded down 1 percent at 9.9274, a
fifth day of losses, while it declined 0.3 percent to 7.0995
versus the dollar after a drop of 2.2 percent earlier today.  Carmakers including Daihatsu Motor Co. and Toyota Motor
Corp. have closed plants in Japan as the nuclear crisis disrupts
electricity supplies, reducing demand for platinum-group metals
that are used in car exhaust systems. Platinum, which accounts
for 52 percent of  South Africa ’s exports to Japan, according to
the government, has declined 4.8 percent this week.  “Japan’s motor industry has ground to a halt,”  Michael Keenan , a Johannesburg-based analyst at Standard Bank Group
Ltd., Africa’s largest rand trader, wrote in an e-mailed
research note. “In the short term, global growth and Japan’s
demand for South Africa’s exports are likely to suffer” until
Japan starts rebuilding its economy, he said.  The yen strengthened to a post-World War II high as Group
of Seven officials prepare to meet to discuss the threat to the
world’s third-largest economy from last week’s earthquake and a
worsening nuclear crisis. Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s biggest
brokerage, today cut its economic growth forecast for the
country this year and Morgan Stanley Asia Chairman  Stephen Roach 
said that the aftermath of the earthquake threatens to cause a
relapse in the global recovery.  ‘Bearish’  Japan accounts for 8 percent of South Africa’s exports and
is the country’s third-biggest export destination, according to
 Department of Trade and Industry  data.  “We see scope for further rand weakness in the near
term,” Keenan wrote. “We are especially bearish about the rand
in relation to the yen.”  The rand also weakened on speculation that Japanese
investors may repatriate money invested overseas, including rand
assets, to fund rebuilding at home. Japanese investors own about
$3.9 billion of rand-based Eurobonds, known as uridashi,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The fear of the repatriation of Japanese funds invested
overseas, and particularly those invested in the form of
uridashi, is behind” some of the rand’s decline, analysts led
by  David Bloom , London-based global head of currency strategy at
HSBC Holdings Plc, said in an e-mailed research note. “The
dependence on short-term capital flows makes the rand
particularly vulnerable in the current context.”  South African  government bonds  fell for a second day. The
13.5 percent security due Sept. 2015 dropped 30 cents to
120.753, driving the yield 7 basis points higher to 7.915
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: Gavin Serkin
at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 