-- 
Treasuries Drop on Speculation G-7 Talks on Japan Will Cut Refuge Demand

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-03-17T21:17:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/treasury-10-year-yields-near-year-low-on-japanese-nuclear-plant-concerns.html
Treasuries fell, pushing the 10-
year note yield up from the lowest level this year, on bets
Group of Seven finance chiefs preparing to hold a conference
call on  Japan ’s earthquake will reduce demand for a refuge.  Bonds also dropped as reports showed initial jobless claims
fell, consumer prices climbed more than forecast and
Philadelphia-area manufacturing surged. Government debt pared
losses as the U.S. began pushing for authorization from the  United Nations  to support Libyan rebels.  “I don’t think we’ve ever had a situation where we’ve had
such headline risk,” said  Brian Edmonds , head of  interest rates 
in New York at Cantor Fitzgerald LP, one of 20 primary dealers
that trade directly with the  Federal Reserve . “Pick your
poison, whether it’s Japan, North Africa and the Middle East,
economic fundamentals.”  Yields on 10-year notes increased nine basis points, or
0.09 percentage point, to 3.26 percent at 5:01 p.m. in  New York ,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 3.625
percent security maturing in February 2021 dropped 23/32, or
$7.19 per $1,000 face amount, to 103 3/32.  The 10-year note yield earlier touched 3.14 percent, the
lowest level since Dec. 8, as investors sought refuge in the
safest and most easily traded securities in the aftermath of
Japan’s magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami last week. The yield
later increased as much as 12 basis points, almost erasing
yesterday’s drop of 13 basis points, the most since Feb. 22.  G-7 Conference  The decision of the G-7 to confer prompted speculation that
the  Bank of Japan  may soon start selling the yen, perhaps with
the support of its counterparts, in what would amount to the
first coordinated intervention since September 2000’s united
effort to lift the euro. A rising yen hurts the competitiveness
of Japanese exporters.  Meanwhile, the U.S., reticent over the past week about
backing a no-fly zone over  Libya , was ready to vote for UN
authorization to destroy forces of  Muammar Qaddafi  that attack
civilians or population centers.  Bonds extended their drop earlier today after the Labor
Department reported that initial jobless claims fell to 385,000
last week from 401,000 during the period ended March 5. The
median forecast of 44 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a decrease to 388,000 from a previously reported 397,000.  Accelerating Inflation  Consumer prices increased 0.5 percent in February after a
0.4 percent gain in the previous month, the Labor Department
reported. The median forecast of 77 economists was for a 0.4
percent advance.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt known as the
break-even rate, widened to 2.44 percentage points after
narrowing to 2.33, the least in almost a month.  “Certainly you have to look at the data,” said Richard Volpe, co-head of rates trading in  Stamford ,  Connecticut  at
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc’s RBS Securities Inc., a primary
dealer. “That will compound the downward pressure. The market
still has a core short in it.” A short is a bet an asset will
fall in value.  The Philadelphia Fed’s general economic index indicated
factory production in the region grew for a sixth straight
month. The gauge rose to 43.4 in March from 35.9 in February.
Readings greater than zero signal expansion in the area covering
eastern  Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware .  U.S. Radiation View  Bonds rose earlier after U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Chairman Gregory Jaczko told a congressional panel yesterday
that Japan’s Dai-Ichi plant was releasing radiation that may be
life-threatening.  Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency said today
there was a possibility of no water at the No. 4 reactor spent-
fuel cooling pool.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell 1.4 percent, paring a
decline of as much as 5 percent. The yen appreciated to 76.36
per dollar today, past the previous post-World War II high of
79.75 reached in April 1995, on the prospect of Japanese
insurers and investors redeeming overseas assets.  Japan is unlikely to sell Treasuries, according to James Caron, head of U.S. interest-rate strategy in New York at Morgan
Stanley, a primary dealer.  “We don’t think it’s going to happen,” said Caron in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu, adding that Japan didn’t sell Treasuries after the 1995
earthquake in Kobe. “That is a complete falsehood.”  The Fed  purchased  $6.989 billion of debt maturing from
February 2014 to February 2015 today as part of its effort to
keep borrowing costs low. The central bank reaffirmed this week
its plan to buy $600 billion of Treasuries through June.  The central bank delayed buying Treasuries yesterday after
a plunge in yields at the time of the scheduled close of the
transaction added to volatility.  The U.S. will sell $11 billion in 10-year Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, on March 24, the
Treasury announced today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.ne  