-- 
Republicans Want More Study Before SEC Sets U.S. Fiduciary Rule

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-03-17T21:51:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/republicans-want-more-study-before-sec-sets-u-s-fiduciary-rule.html
Republicans on the House Financial
Services Committee asked the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission to hold off on proposing a rule to require that
brokers adhere to the same fiduciary duty standard as registered
investment advisers.  A study released by the SEC in January recommended the
commissioners adopt a common standard for both. A group of 14
Republican lawmakers, including Representative  Scott Garrett  of  New Jersey  and other senior members of the House committee,
sent SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  a letter today urging her to
conduct “much more rigorous analysis” and provide “proper
analytical justification for action” before considering a rule.  The SEC staff’s fiduciary duty study was mandated by the
Dodd-Frank financial services overhaul law enacted on July 21,
which also authorized the agency to adopt a rule based on its
conclusions. Giving brokers such a standard would require they
put their clients’ best interests first at all times. Currently,
they are required only to assure that their advice is “suitable”
for their clients.  “The Commission has not identified and defined clear
problems that would justify a rulemaking and does not have a
solid basis upon which to move forward,” today’s letter said,
encouraging a “thorough cost-benefit analysis.  The lawmakers said they agree with two Republican SEC
commissioners, Kathleen Casey and  Troy Paredes , who dissented
from the study’s results.    John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said the agency’s staff
hasn’t yet made a recommendation to the commission on whether to
proceed with the rule.  Labor Department Rule  Three House committee chairmen, including Representative  Spencer Bachus  of Alabama, who heads House Financial Services,
sent a March 15 letter to the Department of Labor and the SEC
asking for a delay of a parallel effort by the Labor department.
The department proposed a rule in October expanding the
definition of fiduciary to designate those giving investment
advice about retirement plans as fiduciaries.  If the two agencies don’t coordinate their rules, that
letter said, “the result could be an inconsistent, and possibly
conflicting, approach.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 