-- 
Republican Presidential Hopefuls Channeling Bush in Fundraising

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-03-17T19:02:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/republican-presidential-hopefuls-channeling-bush-in-fundraising.html
Before they announce their
candidacies, plant a yard sign, or rent storefront space in Des
Moines, Republican presidential prospects are building high-
powered fundraising teams.  Former governors Mitt Romney of  Massachusetts  and Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota, and current Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour , are among those enlisting veterans of President  George W. Bush ’s fundraising teams, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in
its March 21 issue.  “It’s one of a number of primaries that occur before a
single vote is cast,” said former U.S. Representative Bill Paxon of  New York , a senior adviser at Akin Gump Strauss Hauer
Feld LLP who raised at least $100,000 for former President
George W. Bush and is now supporting Barbour should he run.
“The most important of those is for the major fundraisers.”  With individual donations capped at $2,500 for the
nomination campaign and candidates increasingly unwilling to
limit their spending in exchange for federal financing, the
importance of “bundlers” who can tap large networks of friends
and associates for money has grown.  Bush called his bundlers Pioneers (those raising at least
$100,000) and Rangers (at least $200,000). In 2008, Democratic
nominee  Barack Obama  listed 47 people as collecting at least
$500,000 apiece for his campaign, and Republican nominee  John McCain  had 65.  “Money is nothing but voice,” said former Republican
National Committee Finance Co-Chairman Mel Sembler, a shopping-
center developer in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida . “You can always
tell how much support a candidate has by how much money he has
raised.”    Iowa  Caucuses  With the Feb. 6, 2012, Iowa caucuses less than 11 months
away, prospective Republican candidates are courting those who
could serve as their Pioneers and Rangers.  “There is a base of hundreds of folks who go back to the
Bush campaigns,” Paxon said. “I hear from folks who are being
asked to go to  Boston  or Minneapolis or Biloxi. They’re not
going to those cities this time of year for nice weather or a
dinner.”  Former Bush Ranger Robert Wood Johnson IV, the New York
Jets owner, is backing Romney. So is lobbyist Wayne Berman,
another past Ranger. Both raised at least $500,000 in 2008 for
McCain, an Arizona U.S. senator. Pawlenty can count on the
support of at least two other former Bush fundraisers: William Strong, a  Morgan Stanley (MS)  managing director, and Warren Staley,
the former Cargill Inc.  chairman and chief executive officer.  Others are staying neutral for now.  ‘Uncomfortable Situation’  “I’m going to keep my powder dry,” said Dirk Van Dongen,
president of the  National Association of Wholesaler-
Distributors . A former Bush Ranger, Van Dongen also raised at
least $500,000 for McCain. “It’s a very uncomfortable situation
to have to choose among friends,” he said.  At least for now, he can continue to wait. No major
Republican candidate has officially declared a presidential
candidacy.  Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich of Georgia said on March
3 he’s exploring a run and has set up a website for donations.
Romney, Pawlenty, Barbour, and former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin are among those who have hinted they’ll run.  By postponing announcements, they are able to build war
chests through so-called leadership political action committees,
which can take in $5,000 per election from individual
contributors, twice what a campaign committee can accept per
election.  Hiring Staff  While leadership accounts can’t be used in an actual
campaign, they allow likely candidates to pay salaries to lock
in staff who might later join their campaigns. The arrangement
also allows candidates-in-waiting to travel to meet prospective
supporters, develop lists of potential donors, and build
goodwill by giving money to fellow Republicans.  Obama declared his candidacy early in 2007 and raised
almost $26 million in the first three months of that year,
instantly transforming him into a front-runner for his party’s
nomination. Obama wound up raising a record $745 million and was
the first major party nominee to shun public funds for the
general election presidential campaign.  In 2012, the president could raise a record-shattering $1
billion, said Sheila Krumholz, executive director of the  Center
for Responsive Politics , a Washington-based research group,
creating a challenge for any Republican foe.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Jonathan D. Salant  in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 