-- 
Ringgit Recovers as Stocks Pare Drop on G-7 Meet; Bonds Gain

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-03-17T09:08:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/ringgit-recovers-as-stocks-pare-drop-on-g-7-meet-bonds-gain.html
Malaysia’s ringgit rebounded from a
two-week low on speculation Group of Seven policy makers will
take measures to stem currency volatility when they meet
tomorrow to address the financial fallout from  Japan ’s March 11
earthquake and tsunami.  Asian stocks recouped some of their losses after a rout as
engineers battled radiation leaks at Japan’s nuclear plants
following damage during last week’s quake. Malaysian bonds
climbed a government report showed Singapore’s exports rose
slower than expected.  “The  currency market  is a bit on edge with the knock-on
effects from the stock sell-off,” said Mohd Zaki Talib, a
foreign-exchange trader at RHB Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur .
“There is concern about radiation leakage but we think the risk
won’t remain for long.”  The ringgit traded at 3.0560 per dollar as of 4:27 p.m.
versus from 3.0585 yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It earlier slid as much as 0.4 percent to 3.0703, the
weakest level since Feb. 24.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of equities fell 0.5 percent,
recovering from an earlier slide of 1.6 percent on concern the
risk of radiation leaks will damage the world’s third-largest
economy and cool demand for Asian exports and from Japanese
investors to repatriate funds.  “It’ll be very helpful if you had some sort of joint
comment about stabilizing the  exchange rate ” from the G-7, said  Richard Jerram , head of Asian economics at Macquarie Securities
Ltd. “Clearly the economy is in a very fragile state and if you
do have a lot of destabilizing exchange rate movements, it’s
going to make things a lot worse.”  Bonds Advance  The yen rose as high as 76.36 versus the dollar, the
strongest since World War II, after Tokyo Electric Power Co.
said a reactor containment vessel may have been breached at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant north of the capital, deepening
the country’s nuclear crisis.  Singapore’s non-oil domestic exports rose 7.8 percent in
February from a year earlier, compared with a 20.7 percent jump
in January, its trade ministry said today. The median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey was for a 10.5 percent gain. Malaysia sent
13.4 percent of its exports to the city-state in 2010, its
single largest overseas market.  Ten-year notes rallied for a sixth day, driving yields to
the lowest level in three months.  The yield on the 4.16 percent note fell 5 basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 3.97 percent, according to Bursa
Malaysia. The price increase 0.4, or 4 ringgit per 1,000 ringgit
face amount, to 101.6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in  Singapore  at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 