-- 
Roach Says Japan Creates ‘Confluence’ of Threats to Recovery

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 
2011-03-17T14:18:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/roach-says-japan-creates-confluence-of-threats-to-recovery.html
The combined shocks of the disaster
in Japan and turmoil in the Middle East while economies are
still fragile from the financial crisis may undermine the global
recovery, said  Stephen Roach , chairman of  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Asia.  “When you hit a weak economy or collection of economies
with a shock or two or three or four, the prospect of a relapse
has to be high,” Roach said at an AXA Investment Managers
symposium in London today. “I worry about this nascent
recovery. Japan is occurring in the context of multiple other
shocks and we can’t dismiss the confluence of these shocks.”  Japanese equities pared declines as Group of Seven finance
ministers agreed to meet to discuss financial markets and the
country’s economy after the earthquake and nuclear accident
triggered steep drops in stocks. The talks come as European
officials prepare to meet later this month to hammer out the
details of their bailout plan for the region after they expanded
its effective lending capacity to 440 billion euros ($616
billion).  “As we’re seeing in  Europe  right now, the financial crisis
is far from over,” Roach said. “The demand side of the global
economy remains hugely unbalanced, and the biggest source of
global demand is the consumer that has as yet failed to adjust,
and that’s the issue.”  Policy makers may be impotent, because they “have no
traditional ammunition left in their arsenal to deal with
downside risks,” he said.  The yen resumed gains against the dollar today amid signs
policy makers may delay intervention in the foreign-exchange
market. The yen traded at 79.27 per dollar as of the close of  stock trading  in  Tokyo  from 79.59 in  New York  yesterday.  “A theory that has intrigued many is that the world is
snapping back this year. I think the snapbacks are going to be
limited,” Roach said. “This is a much broader and more
synchronous global downturn than we’ve ever seen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 