-- 
Rolls-Royce Riding Swazi King’s Pay Rises as Cuts Stoke Rage

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   V u y i s i l e   H l a t s h w a y o
-- 
2011-03-18T12:43:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/rolls-royce-riding-swazi-king-gets-wage-rise-as-spending-cuts-stoke-anger.html
King Mswati III has a Rolls Royce,
13 palaces and 14 wives, and just received a pay increase, even
as a cash crisis forced  Swaziland  to slash spending, feeding
anger against his regime.  With the government freezing state wages and imposing
higher taxes to fight the country’s worst-ever fiscal crisis,
the nation’s five biggest labor groups held a “mass protest”
today in the capital, Mbabane. About 12,000 people marched
through the city’s streets, closely watched by police, according
to Mduduzi Gina, secretary-general of the Swaziland Federation
of Trade Unions, or SFTU, the country’s biggest labor group.  The unions want change in sub-Saharan Africa’s last
absolute monarchy as a 20 percent drop in recurrent state
spending threatens to drive up a 43 percent jobless rate and
push thousands of people in Africa’s third-largest sugar
producer to search for work in neighboring South  Africa . The
king was awarded a 24 percent rise in his budget allocation.  “The anger will help speed up the process of change,”
Vincent Dlamini, deputy secretary-general of the SFTU, said in
an interview in Mbabane. “We’ve seen the people of Tunisia and  Egypt . They are essentially monarchies too. That can happen here
as long as people consistently mobilize.”  The  Congress of South African Trade Unions , the country’s
biggest labor union federation with about two million members,
backed the protests, calling for an end to “the intensified
state of terror enforced by the royal regime and its security
forces,” it said in a March 16 e-mailed statement. Swazi
workers are employed in South African mines and other
industries.  People Leaving    South Africa  must cut trade and economic ties with
Swaziland’s government and companies must disinvest until
democracy is in place, Johannesburg’s National Union of
Metalworkers of South Africa said in an e-mailed statement
today.  Last year the nation of 1.2 million people lost over a
third of its revenue as income from a regional  customs union 
collapsed when the global economic crisis slashed trade,
according to the government. South Africa, under white rule
until 1994, subsidized some of its neighbors by sharing income
from duties and tariffs in return for the right to steer
regional policies. It’s now seeking to renegotiate the accord.  Efforts to raise money through bonds have faltered. In
January, Swaziland sold a fifth of the 750 million emalangeni
($106 million) worth of seven-year bonds it offered. It didn’t
accept any bids for a 182-day Treasury-bill sale on March 16.  Xenophobic Fighting  “It’s never happened in the history of Swaziland,” Zodwa
Mabuza, chief executive officer of the Swaziland Federation of
Employers and Chamber of Commerce, said in a Feb. 14 interview
in Mbabane. “People are leaving, especially skilled people, and
they don’t come back.”  The kingdom will miss out on a $100 million loan from the
Tunis-based  African Development Bank  if it doesn’t curb the
continent’s highest wage bill as a share of spending.  “They have to cut the wage bill significantly,” Donald Kaberuka, the lender’s president, said in an interview in  Pretoria , South Africa on March 13. “However, they are having
some challenges with the unions. This money can only kick in if
that fiscal sustainability plan is satisfactory to us.”  Swaziland is a land-locked nation wedged between  Mozambique 
and South Africa, the continent’s biggest economy, which is
struggling to cut its 24-percent jobless rate. Some  South
Africans  blame refugees for their inability to find work,
sparking anti-immigrant riots three years ago that led to the
death of about 60 people. As many as 1.5 million Zimbabweans
fled an economic and political crisis in their country to South
Africa, according to the Johannesburg-based African Centre for
Migration & Society.  Quashed Protests  “There’s certainly the possibility that an influx of any
kind of migrants will fuel tensions and could even spark future
violence,” Kaajal Ramjathan-Keogh, head of the migrant rights
program for the Johannesburg-based Lawyers for Human Rights,
said in an interview. “The spirit of xenophobic violence hasn’t
stopped.”  Mswati is the nation’s second ruler since independence from
Britain in 1968 and the 42-year-old will celebrate a quarter of
a century in power in April. The king appoints the prime
minister and lawmakers aren’t allowed to belong to a political
party. Security forces have quashed opposition protests during
32 years of emergency rule. In September, they “arbitrarily
detained, assaulted and intimidated” human rights activists,
 Amnesty International  said on its website.  The monarch clings to past rituals, including an annual
reed dance in which bare-breasted virgins vie for his attention,
and to possibly become his new wife.  Marula Wine  At an annual praise-giving at one of the sovereign’s
palaces on Feb. 12, about 2,000 women dressed in colorful
fabrics sang and danced with rattles strapped to their ankles.
With three burgundy feathers sticking in his hair, wearing a
traditional red toga-like garment and flanked by his mother,
Mswati surveyed his subjects while accepting gifts of marula
wine, a homebrew made from a small round fruit.  This, and the other festivities which eulogize Mswati, are
an insult to Swazis, over two-thirds of whom live on less than
$2 a day, according to labor leader Dlamini.  “If your father said he has no money to pay your school
fees and then he throws a massive birthday party for himself
with champagne for everyone, what would you think?” he said.  Highest HIV Rate  Mswati has a personal fortune of $200 million,  New York ’s
 Forbes Magazine  said on its website. The nation’s gross domestic
product was $3 billion in 2009, according to the  International
Monetary Fund . He holds stakes in most major businesses,
including a venture with  Illovo Sugar Ltd. (ILV) , Africa’s biggest
producer of the sweetener, and Swaziland’s only mobile phone
services provider, the local unit of Johannesburg-based  MTN
Group Ltd. (MTN)   Mswati’s allocation of 210 million emalangeni in this
year’s budget is nearly as much as the government spends on
medicines, including anti-AIDS drugs, in a country where one in
four adults has the HIV virus that causes the disease. That’s
the highest infection rate in the world, according to the  United
Nations .  Bheki Dlamini, the chief executive officer of the king’s
office, referred all questions to Finance Minister Majozi Sithole. He declined to comment on governance issues during a
Feb. 14 interview.  The government must now choose between appeasing unions or
meeting lender demands.  “The trigger for a proper crisis is when they run out of
cash totally,”  John Cairns , a strategist for Johannesburg-based  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) ’s Rand Merchant Bank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Vuyisile Hlathswayo in Mbabane at 
 vshlathswayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  