-- 
Rupee Falls as Japan’s Nuclear Crisis Spurs Demand for Safety

-- B y   A n i l   V a r m a
-- 
2011-03-17T12:57:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/rupee-falls-most-in-a-week-as-japan-spurs-demand-for-safety.html
  India ’s rupee dropped for the
second time this week as  Japan ’s escalating nuclear crisis
prompted investors to favor the relative safety of the dollar
over regional assets.  The rupee declined after the Dollar Index, which tracks the
greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, climbed 0.5 percent yesterday. The Bombay Stock
Exchange’s Sensitive Index retreated 1.1 percent. The rupee’s
losses were curbed by speculation crude-oil prices near a three-
week low will reduce the nation’s import costs.  “The weakness in the rupee is a reflection of the loss of
investor appetite across financial markets as nuclear risk runs
high in Japan,” said Priyanka Chakravarty, a Mumbai-based
foreign-exchange strategist at Standard Chartered Plc. “Still,
the rupee remains relatively resilient among Asian currencies,
helped partly by the decline in oil.”  The rupee dropped 0.2 percent to 45.185 per dollar at the 5
p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency will rise to 45.17 by the end of June, according to
the median estimate of 17 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  The Indian currency pared losses after the central bank
raised today its benchmark interest rate for the eighth time in
a year to 6.75 percent, boosting the yield advantage on local
assets.  Overseas investment in Indian debt has increased as yields
rose. Foreign holdings of rupee denominated corporate and  government bonds  rose $3.26 billion this year to an all-time
high $20.9 billion on March 15, according to the  Securities and
Exchange Board of India .  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 45.96 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations of 46
yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a
set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anil Varma in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  