-- 
Rupiah Drops as Worsening Crisis in Japan Cuts Risk Appetite

-- B y   S u r y a n i   O m a r
-- 
2011-03-17T09:28:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/rupiah-drops-as-worsening-crisis-in-japan-cuts-risk-appetite.html
  Indonesia ’s rupiah declined toward
its lowest level in more than two weeks after Asian stocks
slumped amid concern about a radiation leak from a nuclear power
plant in Japan. Benchmark bonds fell.  The rupiah dropped along with other regional currencies as
the MSCI Asia-Pacific Index fell for the third time this week.
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Chairman Gregory Jaczko told
a congressional panel in Washington that all the water has
drained from the spent-fuel pool at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant
north of Tokyo and high levels of radiation have been released.  “Risk aversion has picked up and people are starting to
panic after news that the nuclear crisis seems to have
escalated,” said  Gundy Cahyadi , a Singapore-based economist at
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. “Markets will probably continue
to be jittery.”  The rupiah fell 0.2 percent to 8,793 per dollar as of 4:03
p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency reached 8,831 yesterday, its weakest level since Feb.
28. Overseas investors sold $8.1 million more Indonesian stocks
than they bought in the first three days of this week, exchange
data show.  Japan is in a “serious situation,” Yukiya Amano, head of
the  International Atomic Energy Agency , told reporters in Vienna
before departing for an emergency meeting in Tokyo. “Radiation
levels are extremely high, which could possibly impact the
ability to take corrective measures,” Jaczko told lawmakers.  Emerging-market currencies including  South Korea ’s won, the
rupiah and the  Singapore dollar  will be hurt the most as
Japanese investors repatriate money to fund rebuilding after the
magnitude-9 earthquake, according to analysts at Royal Bank of
Canada.  “Repatriation of Japanese capital from abroad to finance
reconstruction could result in reduced investment exposures in
the emerging markets, hurting their currencies,” analysts led
by Toronto-based  Nick Chamie  wrote in a research note yesterday.  Ten-year  government bonds  was fell. The yield on the 8.25
percent note due July 2021 was little changed at 8.36 percent,
according to closing prices from the Inter-Dealer Market
Association. A basis point is one-percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suryani Omar in Jakarta at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  