-- 
Russian Markets Are Cheap, Says Goldman’s O’Neill; GLG Bets on Ruble Gains

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-03-17T14:34:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/russia-is-cheap-says-goldman-s-o-neill-glg-bets-on-ruble-gains.html
Russian markets are “cheap”
according to Goldman Sachs Asset Management Chairman  Jim O’Neill , while hedge fund GLG Partners LP is betting on gains in
the country’s currency.  The country is the favorite emerging market for both
O’Neill and Bart Turtelboom, GLG’s co-head of emerging markets,
they said at the Bloomberg Link Hedge Fund Conference in  London 
today.  GLG Partners is betting on gains in the ruble, which is
“one of the biggest trades we have on,” because the nation has
abundant natural resources and will see a number of initial
public offerings, he said.  Russia’s currency, whose world-beating rally earlier this
year was fueled by surging  oil prices , has retreated 0.3 percent
versus the dollar since  Japan ’s March 11 earthquake because of
concern the fallout from the catastrophe will slow economic
growth and lessen demand for crude imports. The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  of
stocks trades at 9.5 times the average earnings of its members,
compared with 13.9 times for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  The ruble depreciated for the third day this week against
the central bank’s dollar-euro basket, losing 0.2 percent to
33.7989 as of 4:29 p.m. in Moscow. The Micex Index in the
world’s largest energy exporter increased 1.5 percent.  Russia’s governance issues are “gradually being cured, but
it will take time,” said Turtelboom.  Blackstone    Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s largest private equity
firm, doesn’t have any investments in Russia “that I know of,”
John Studzinski, a senior managing director at the firm, said at
the Bloomberg conference today.  “We know the government is trying to make the environment
more friendly,” he said. Russia’s relative risk is “case by
case, industry by industry.”  The Russian government is setting up a $10 billion fund
aimed at boosting investment by overseas buyout firms in the
country, two people with knowledge of the matter said March 7.  Leveraged buyout firms have led $1.5 billion of takeovers
this year in Russia, about half the $3.6 billion of investments
announced in  China , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Carlyle Group LP, one of the world’s biggest private equity
firms, shut its Moscow office in 2005, a year after opening it,
saying the country was too risky.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  