-- 
Russia Stocks Jump as Oil Gains, Goldman Says Market Is ‘Cheap’

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-03-17T16:20:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/russia-stocks-advance-as-oil-gains-on-growing-middle-east-unrest.html
  Russia ’s Micex advanced by its most
in more than a month after oil rose on concern unrest in the
Middle East may cut exports and after Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
said the country’s shares are “cheap.”  The Micex Index rallied 1.9 percent to 1,737.62 by the 6:45
p.m. close in Moscow, its biggest gain since Feb. 11. OAO Lukoil
Russia’s biggest oil producer, increased 2.7 percent. OAO
Gazprom, the country’s gas export monopoly, added 1.2 percent
and OAO Sberbank, its largest lender, climbed 3.7 percent. The
gauge trades at 9.6 times the average earnings of its members,
compared with 13.9 times for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.
The dollar-denominated RTS Index gained 1.6 percent to 1,945.8.  Oil, Russia’s chief export earner, climbed as much as 2.8
percent to $100.67 a barrel in  New York  after the U.S. signaled
it favored allowing foreign intervention against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s forces. Bahrain’s government yesterday
declared a three-month state of emergency after troops from  Saudi Arabia  and other Gulf states arrived to help quell a month
of protests driven by Shiites calling for democracy.  “‘Portfolio managers see Russia performing well in high-
volatility, risk-averse environment and are allocating
accordingly,” Julian Rimmer, a trader of Russian shares at CF
Global Trading in London, said in e-mailed comments. “Middle
East and North African unrest gives crude a backstop.”  Russian markets are “cheap” Goldman Sachs Asset
Management Chairman  Jim O’Neill  said at the Bloomberg Link Hedge
Fund Conference in London.  Copper on the  London  Metal Exchange advanced as much as 3.3
percent. All of the six main metals on the LME increased. OAO
GMK Norilsk Nickel, Russia’s biggest miner, rose 2.1 percent to
7,159 rubles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  