-- 
San Francisco Bay Area Home Prices Fall for Fifth Month as Cash Deals Rise

-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 
2011-03-17T18:38:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/san-francisco-bay-area-home-prices-fall-for-fifth-month-as-cash-deals-rise.html
San Francisco Bay area  home prices 
slid 4.7 percent in February from a year earlier as buyers
delayed purchases and distressed sales made up half of all
transactions, according to  DataQuick Information Systems Inc.   The median price paid for houses and condominiums in the
nine-county region was $337,599, down 0.2 percent from January,
the San Diego-based data company said today in a statement. It
was the fifth straight year-over-year decline after 12 gains.  Foreclosures and distressed properties, which sell at
discounts, are reducing home prices and holding back some
purchasers as they wait for values to fall further. Buyers who
paid all cash accounted for a record 31 percent of sales in
February as investors represented a greater share of the market,
DataQuick said.  “Sales over the past two months certainly underscore the
market’s reliance on investor and cash purchases at a time many
potential buyers hesitated to act,”  John Walsh , DataQuick’s
president, said in the statement. “Our sense is that we could
see sales jump significantly from today’s subpar levels if the
economic outlook improves, people start feeling more secure in
their jobs and credit terms loosen.”  A total of 4,991 houses and condos sold in the Bay Area
last month, down 0.9 percent from a year earlier, DataQuick
said. Transactions increased 0.5 percent from January.  Foreclosures made up 33 percent of purchases in February
and short sales, where the price is less than the amount owed on
the mortgage, were about 20 percent. Absentee buyers, which
often are investors, purchased 23 percent of all homes sold, the
highest since DataQuick began tracking that data in 2000.  Prices fell from a year earlier in eight of nine counties,
led by a 19 percent drop in Marin to a median $497,500. Napa had
the only increase, with a 1.3 percent advance to $324,000.  Sales declined the most in Alameda, falling 12 percent,
Marin County had a 15 percent rise in transactions for the
biggest gain, said DataQuick, which compiles county records and
supplies data to public agencies, lenders and title companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  