-- 
Scotland Government Approves World’s Largest Tidal Park at Sound of Islay

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-03-17T15:29:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/scotland-government-approves-world-s-largest-tidal-park-at-sound-of-islay.html
ScottishPower Renewables, a unit of  Iberdrola Renovables SA (IBR) , says it will build the world’s largest
tidal energy plant off  Scotland ’s west coast.  The company won approval to build a 10-megawatt
demonstration project that will cost 40 million pounds ($65
million) and will generate enough power for 5,000 homes,
Glasgow-based ScottishPower Renewables said today in a
 statement .  The project will be the first tidal energy plant in
Scotland and would triple the 3.4-megawatt capacity of all
marine-energy projects currently deployed in the U.K., Johanna
Yates, offshore policy manager at the Scottish Renewables
lobbying group, said today by e-mail.  “This represents a major milestone for the marine energy
sector in Scotland, with the largest project consent granted to
date,” she said.  ScottishPower will install 10 tidal turbines, each with
capacity of 1 megawatt, in the Sound of Islay, a channel between
the islands of Jura and Islay known for its strong tidal flows,
according to the statement.  Hammerfest Strom AS , a Norwegian company partially owned by
Iberdrola, will provide its HS1000 tidal turbines for the
project. ScottishPower expects to begin work on the plant next
year and to install the turbines from 2013 to 2015.  A 300-kilowatt prototype of Hammerfest Strom’s  HS1000 model 
has been generating electricity in Norwegian waters for more
than six years. The company will test the systems in waters off
Orkney, Scotland, this year.  Potential Tidal Energy  “With around a quarter of  Europe ’s potential tidal energy
resource and a tenth of the wave capacity, Scotland’s seas have
unrivaled potential to generate green energy,” John Swinney,
Scotland’s cabinet secretary for finance and sustainable growth,
 said  today. The nation is seeking to create a marine power
industry as part of its efforts to derive 80 percent of its
energy from renewable sources by 2020.  About 4 million pounds of contracts to produce the turbines
will go to Scottish businesses, including a 2 million-pound
contract for Burntisland Fabrications Ltd., the government said.  Tidal power is among the most expensive renewable
technologies, at $317 a megawatt-hour, according to Bloomberg
New Energy Finance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  