-- 
LSE Won’t Contest Former Turquoise CEO’s Unfair Dismissal Claim

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-03-17T14:28:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/lse-won-t-contest-former-turquoise-ceo-s-unfair-dismissal-claim.html
  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) 
won’t contest whether Eli Lederman, the former chief executive
officer of  Turquoise , was unfairly dismissed while disputing the
rest of the claims in the employment case.  LSE conceded that Lederman was unfairly dismissed after the
exchange acquired  Turquoise , Lederman and LSE spokesman Jonny
Blostone said today. Lederman, a former managing director at
Morgan Stanley in  London , is suing under laws that protect
employees when one business is transferred to another.  The exchange, led by CEO Xavier Rolet, completed its
purchase of Turquoise in February 2010 to compete with so-called
multilateral trading facilities and merged system with LSE’s
Baikal unit. LSE last month agreed to buy the owner of the
Toronto Stock Exchange for about $3.2 billion in stock.  “After months of costly resistance they have now conceded
major points and admitted unfair dismissal,” Lederman, 47, said
after a hearing in the case. “I vow to stick this out until the
other side show respect for the process and justice is served.”  While the LSE conceded unfair dismissal, it will continue
to contest the rest of the claim, Blostone said today. He
declined to comment further, citing the legal process. LSE in
February 2010 replaced Lederman with David Lester, the director
of information services at the exchange.  The London Employment Tribunal adjourned hearings until
tomorrow morning to give Lederman time to review what he says
are “hundreds of pages of new documents” the exchange provided
“yesterday and last night.”  Turquoise was set up by LSE’s biggest customers including  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Bank of America Corp.,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , and had taken
market share from LSE and other traditional exchanges.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  