-- 
SIG Says Full-Year Loss Widens on Private Building Slump

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-03-17T16:45:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/sig-says-full-year-loss-widens-on-private-construction-slump.html
  SIG Plc (SHI) ,  Europe ’s biggest supplier
of insulation, said its full-year loss widened as private non-
residential construction slumped in sluggish European economies.  The net loss was 77.1 million pounds ($124 million), or 13
pence per share, in 2010, compared with a loss of 45.6 million
pounds, or 9.7 pence per share, the previous year, the
Sheffield, England-based company said in a statement.  While residential construction improved last year, that
wasn’t enough to offset declines in private non-residential
building, SIG said. To cut costs, the company closed half its
interiors factories, leaving it with six. Office, retail and
leisure construction won’t return to growth until the middle of
this year, Chief Executive Officer Chris Davies said.  Non-residential projects, from which SIG gets a little more
than half its sales, “tend to be larger projects that take
longer to get started, longer to complete,” Davies said in a
telephone interview. “Office was particularly badly hit during
this cycle.”  SIG gained 9.4 pence, or 7.8 percent, to 130.5 pence at the
4:30 p.m. close in  London . The shares have risen 1.4 percent
this year, giving the company a market value of 771 million
pounds.  Renovation sales are growing in London and southeast  England , Davies said. Revenue from retrofitted insulation for
alternative energy or heat-conservation projects was 75 million
pounds last year and should grow in 2011, he said.  Trading for the first two months of this year was in line
with forecasts and well ahead of the comparable period last
year, the company said in the statement.  SIG said it will resume paying dividends this year, after
suspending them to reduce debt and conserve cash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  