-- 
SKF’s North America Chief Jeppesen Says Demand Keeps Growing

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-03-17T17:26:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/skf-s-north-america-chief-jeppesen-says-demand-keeps-growing.html
  SKF AB (SKFB) , the world’s largest maker
of ball bearings, is seeing increasing demand in  North America ,
according to the company’s regional chief.  “We see a continuation of the trend from 2010 into the
first quarter,” Poul Jeppesen, the North America chief, said in
a phone interview today. “The positive trend continues.”  Customers buying more bearings in the U.S.,  Canada  and
Mexico include companies in the automotive, construction,
highway, agricultural and medical industries, Jeppesen said from
his headquarters in Lansdale,  Pennsylvania .  SKF’s revenue in North America climbed 9 percent to 10.8
billion kronor ($1.7 billion) last year, generating 18 percent
of total sales, according to the Gothenburg, Sweden-based
company’s  annual report .  Aerospace is another industry that’s showing positive
signs, said Jeppesen, who was promoted to head of North America
last month after having overseen the U.S. business.  “Aerospace is getting up to speed again,” he said. “This
was the last sector getting into the downturn and consequently
is the last one coming out of it.”  While deliveries to wind-energy companies were a
disappointment in 2010, SKF in North America is now getting more
inquiries from these businesses, he said.  “We believe that market will start to move in a positive
direction,” he said.  SKF has about 4,300 workers in North America excluding  Mexico . It’s hiring again in the region and now has more
employees than it did before the financial crisis that started
in 2008, Jeppesen said.  SKF’s shares have fallen 11 percent this year, valuing it
at 77.6 billion kronor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 