-- 
Soaked Midwest Soil Boosts Flood Risk for Wheat, Sandbag Cities

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-03-17T20:28:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/soaked-midwest-soil-boosts-flood-risk-for-wheat-sandbag-cities.html
Excessive snow in the northern
Great Plains and Midwest may spur floods that rival the record-
setting deluge of 2009, threatening U.S. wheat crops and
livestock as cities in the region stockpile sandbags.  Since October,  North Dakota , the largest wheat-growing
state, South Dakota and Minnesota got almost 3 feet (91
centimeters) more snow than usual, National Weather Service data
show. More than 20 inches remain in some areas, about the same
amount that was on the  ground  at this time in  2009 , before
floods along the Red River of the North caused about $223.7
million in damage and killed more than 91,000  cattle .  Planting delays may curb wheat output for a third year in
the U.S., the world’s largest exporter. Global inventories of
the grain already were eroded by floods last year in Australia
and  Canada  and a drought in  Russia  that sent wheat prices to
two-year high last month. World food prices tracked by the  United Nations  reached a record in February.  “There is strong interest in wheat” from traders because
of the potential threat to U.S. production, said Jim Peterson,
the marketing director of the Bismarck-based North Dakota Wheat
Commission, an industry group. If floods delay the start of
spring planting until late April, “you’ll start seeing the
market get quite concerned,” he said.  Saturated Land  Frozen soil can’t absorb water if snow melts too rapidly,
and most ground in the three-state region is saturated after
wetter-than-normal weather since September. Areas around the Red
River, which flows north to Canada and forms the border between
North Dakota and Minnesota, may get the equivalent of 0.25 inch
of rain this weekend, said Bill Barrett, a weather service
meteorologist in Grand Forks, North Dakota.  “We expect in the next 10 days we will be deploying
sandbags” to prevent the overflow of the Red River, said
Michael Redlinger, the city manager of Moorhead,  Minnesota ,
which is spending as much as $200,000 on temporary flood
barriers. “It is definitely getting closer now.”  Almost half the U.S. has an above-average risk of flooding
through April, with areas of North Dakota, South Dakota and
Minnesota among the regions with the highest threat, the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration  said today.
Eastern  South Dakota  may experience “moderate to major
flooding” next week as rising temperatures melt snow, the
government agency said.  Fargo Flood  In 2009, the Red River swelled beyond flood stage in Fargo,
North Dakota’s largest city, for a record 61 days. That caused
$184.7 million of damage on the North Dakota side of the river,
according the state’s Department of  Emergency Services .
Minnesota’s Department of  Homeland Security  and Emergency
Management estimated losses in the state at $39 million.  This year, current snow conditions in many areas
“certainly rival or even exceed” levels from 2009, said Steve
Buan, a service coordination hydrologist with the North Central
River Forecast Center in Chanhassen, Minnesota.  “We’re expecting widespread overland flooding throughout
much of the southern half of the Red River valley,” he said.  When the snow melt is combined with ground that was
saturated by rains five months ago, the potential for flooding
exists along the Minnesota and Mississippi rivers all the way
down to  St. Louis , Buan said.  Acreage Rebound  North Dakota sowed 8.2 million acres with  spring wheat  and
durum last year, rebounding 1.2 percent from 2009, when acreage
was the lowest since 2004, according to the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture . Planting usually starts in April and is completed
in May. If fields dry out in time, farmers may add as much as 5
percent more acres than last year, because prices are up from
2010, the Wheat Commission’s Peterson said.  Wheat futures reached a two-year high of $9.1675 a bushel
on Feb. 15 on the  Chicago  Board of Trade. Since then, prices
have dropped 23 percent to $7.1025, as the earthquake in  Japan 
threatened to cut demand from the second-largest U.S. export
market. The commodity remains 43 percent higher than a year ago.  Extensive flooding may spur farmers in  South Dakota  to
plant soybeans rather than corn, while some wheat fields in
North Dakota may be left unsown, said Nick Kouchoukos, the
president of Lanworth Inc. in Chicago.  Collect Insurance  “If we go back and look at historical data, the years
where you do see heavy rain and lots of flooding and
precipitation, we do see an increase in what’s categorized as
fallow,” Kouchoukos said. “Some of it ultimately is not going
to get planted,” because some farmers will choose to collect on
crop-insurance policies rather than take the risk of a damaged
harvest, he said.  Most spring wheat should be planted before May 10 to ensure
that crops aren’t damaged by frost before the harvest, which
usually occurs in August and September, the Wheat Commission’s
Peterson said.  “In the southern part of our region, they like to get
going in the fields the first part of April, and this year
that’s looking more doubtful,” Peterson said.  For the winter season, Fargo received 74 inches of snow, as
of March 15, or 34.8 inches above normal, according to the  National Weather Service . The Minneapolis-St. Paul area got 80.2
inches, or 33.3 inches above average. Duluth, Minnesota,
recorded 79.4 inches, or 10.7 inches above normal.  September was the wettest on record for Minnesota, with
6.47 inches of rain breaking the old mark of 6.2 inches set in
1900, according to the state’s Climatology Office website.  Cattle Threatened  Extended cold, wet conditions may threaten cattle supplies,
as most calves are born in March and April, said Charles
Stoltenow, an extension veterinarian at North Dakota State
University in Fargo. Cattle futures reached a record $1.18 a
pound on March 9, and U.S. wholesale choice beef costs are up 22
percent from last year.  Young calves “don’t have a lot of energy reserves,”
Stoltenow said. “If we have too much wet and cold, we lose
quite a few to hypothermia as well as flooding conditions.”  The next two weeks will determine the extent of the flood
risk, said Dennis Walaker, the mayor of Fargo, which has 2.5
million sandbags already filled.  “We’re planning for a significant and serious flood, and
we don’t have any choice in doing that,” Walaker said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net . 