-- 
South Africa Constitutional Court Says Hawks Crime Unit Creation ‘Invalid’

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-03-17T14:39:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/south-africa-constitutional-court-says-hawks-crime-unit-creation-invalid-.html
  South Africa ’s Constitutional Court
 ruled  legislation which replaced the Scorpions crime fighting
unit with the Hawks was “constitutionally invalid,” because
the Hawks are “vulnerable to political interference.”  The ruling African National Congress in October 2008
disbanded the Scorpions, which had investigated corruption
charges against  Jacob Zuma , who became party leader the year
before. Prosecutors dropped charges of corruption, racketeering,
fraud, money laundering and  tax evasion  against Zuma in April
2009, the same month he won elections to become the leader of
Africa’s biggest economy.  Changes to the South African Police Services Amendment Act
doesn’t pass “constitutional muster” as the Hawks are
“insufficiently insulated from political influence in its
structure and functioning,” the Johannesburg-based
Constitutional Court said on its website today. This created a
“significant risk of political influence and interference.”  The Scorpions, trained with the help of the  Federal Bureau
of Investigation  and the U.K.’s Scotland Yard, was set up in
1999 to stamp out corruption and organized crime too
sophisticated for regular police. The unit investigated Zuma,
former police chief  Jackie Selebi  and dozens of legislators for
graft. All opposition parties favored retaining the unit.  The main opposition Democratic Alliance said the ruling was
“a vindication of the DA’s deep and longstanding concerns over
the disbandment of the Scorpions,” it said in an e-mailed
statement.  ‘Protecting ANC’  The 2008 legislation brought members of the Scorpions into
the Hawks, which became a new anti-crime unit answering directly
to the police ministry and no longer working with the National
Prosecuting Authority in preparing cases for trial.  Today’s ruling by Judges Dikgang Moseneke and Edwin Cameron
upheld a second appeal by businessman Hugh Glenister to have the
bill scrapped. He lost a previous appeal a day before the act
was approved by the ANC-led parliament.  Plans by the government to disband the unit were aimed at
protecting ANC members and would undermine the fight against
crime, Glenister said in court documents.  The legislation enacted by Parliament was intended to give
the Hawks greater independence and to shield it from possible
interference, the  Department of Justice  said in an e-mailed
statement. “Steps will be taken to give effect to this
judgment.”  The Constitutional Court said it suspended its
“declaration of constitutional invalidity” for 18 months to
allow parliament to “remedy the defect” in the law.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 