-- 
South Africa’s ANC Executive Not Considering Mine Royalties, Mantashe Says

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-03-17T16:29:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/south-africa-s-anc-executive-not-considering-mine-royalties-mantashe-says.html
  South Africa ’s ruling party said it
isn’t studying imposing new fees on mine operators in the nation
after a ministry official reportedly said they were an option.  “There is no option that is on the table now,” African
National Congress Secretary General Gwede Mantashe said by phone
from Johannesburg today. The National Executive Committee, the
party’s policymaking body, “has not made any such decision. The
NEC is looking at nothing with mining now,” Mantashe said.  Deputy Economic Development Minister Enoch Godongwana, on a
visit to  Australia , said he was responding to questions on mine
nationalization in comments reported earlier by  Reuters , rather
than mineral royalties. The ANC is already considering whether
the state should take greater control over the industry.  “This investigation is looking at nationalization and not
mining royalties,” Godongwana said in a phone interview today
from Sydney. “We’re not thinking about that at the moment. The
country is not necessarily getting enough benefits from our
mines. I said there is an investigation under way at party
level, whether and to what extent there should be any
nationalization of mines, but not at government level.”  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mine operator, Anglo
American Plc, AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. and Xstrata Plc are among
companies operating in South Africa. The country has about $2.5
trillion in mineral reserves,  Citibank NA  estimated last year,
saying that’s more than any other nation. It also has the
world’s largest reserves of platinum and manganese.  Watered Down  Australia watered down a planned 40 percent profit tax on
mining companies last year after pressure from the industry,
instead proposing a 30 percent fee on  iron ore  and coal profit.  South Africa’s ANC in September decided to investigate ways
of increasing state involvement in mines. The party last month
appointed three independent analysts to study the options and
inform a decision it plans to make in 2012. South Africa imposed
royalties on mining companies last year after postponing them
for 10 months following the global economic crisis.  Bheki Khumalo, a spokesman for the Mineral Resources
Department, referred questions to the National Treasury, whose
spokesman, Jabulani Sikhakhane, didn’t immediately respond to a
message left on his mobile phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net 
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net 
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 