-- 
South Africa Commits to Nuclear as China Halts Expansion Amid Japan Fears

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-03-17T12:39:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/south-africa-commits-to-nuclear-as-china-halts-expansion-amid-japan-fears.html
  South Africa , the continent’s
largest electricity producer, approved a 20-year plan that will
see an increased reliance on nuclear energy even as  Japan 
battles to prevent a meltdown at one of its plants and China
halts all atomic-power expansion plans.  South Africa needs to “diversify the energy mix” away
from coal, Collins Chabane, a minister in the presidency, told
reporters in Cape Town today. Under the so-called Integrated
Resource Plan, 23 percent of newly generated power should come
from nuclear sources by 2031. That compares with 2.1 percent in
2009, according to BP Plc statistics.  The decision comes amid fears of radiation leaks from a
stricken atomic facility north of  Tokyo , after a magnitude-9
earthquake and 7-meter (23-foot) tsunami hit Japan on March 11.  China , building more nuclear reactors than any other nation,
will stop approving new atomic plants “until safety and
improved long-term development plans are cleared,” it said.  Nuclear power has a role to play meeting those energy
needs,  Brian Dames , chief executive officer of state-owned power
utility Eskom Holdings Ltd., said yesterday. “From a South
African perspective, our geological conditions are distinctly
different” to those in Japan, he said.  “We haven’t chosen a technology” for the nuclear plants,
South Africa’s Nelisiwe Magubane, director-general of the energy
department, told reporters today.  Independent Power Producers  “We’re not in a position to say how many plants are going
to be built,” who will build them or what the cost will be, she
said.  Under South Africa’s latest energy plan, 15 percent of
newly generated power will come from coal, 42 percent from
renewable sources and 6 percent from gas.  In 2009, South Africa got 78.3 percent of its energy from
coal, 19.2 percent from oil and 2.1 percent from nuclear power,
according to BP. Hydroelectric power accounted for less than 1
percent of the nation’s energy supply and natural gas none.  South Africa’s Cabinet also today approved a draft law to
establish an agency that will buy power from independent
electricity producers. Eskom, based in Johannesburg, currently
provides about 95 percent of South Africa’s electricity.  The agency will facilitate “participation by the
independent power producers,” Energy Minister Dipuo Peters told
reporters. “We have a policy in the country that says 30
percent of power in the country must be generated” by
independent companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  