-- 
Southern Sudan’s Military Clashes With Rebel Militias, Army Spokesman Says

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-03-17T14:06:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/southern-sudan-s-military-clashes-with-rebel-militias-army-spokesman-says.html
Southern Sudan ’s military clashed
today with two rebel militias in separate states, leaving an
unknown number of casualties as violence intensifies in the
region which is due to gain independence in July, the army said.  The army fought for the first time with a militia led by
Cul Jang in Unity State, army spokesman Philip Aguer said by
phone today from Juba, the capital of Southern Sudan. The
clashes took place in Tam village in Mayom county, and lasted
for four hours, he said.  The group moved from northern Sudan last month, and said
they would join the southern army, “but they refused to
integrate and started recruiting fighters,” Aguer said. “They
were imposing taxes on the civilian population here,” he said.
“We went to check and they started shooting.”  Fighting in the region has intensified with “at least 16
incidents of violence” since almost 99 percent of Southern
Sudanese voters chose in a Jan. 9 referendum to secede from the
rest of  Sudan , Mohamed Chande Othman, the United Nations  Human
Rights Council ’s independent expert on Sudan, said March 14 in
an e-mailed statement.  At independence, Southern Sudan will assume control of
about three-quarters of Sudan’s current oil production of
490,000 barrels a day, pumped mainly by China National Petroleum
Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and  India ’s Oil &
Natural Gas Corp. Sudan had five billion barrels of proven oil
reserves as of January 2010, according to the  U.S. Energy
Information Administration .  Upper Nile Clashes  The Southern Sudanese army also clashed today in Upper Nile
state with another rebel militia whose leader, a man named
Oliny, used be a follower of Lam Akol, the leader of a splinter
group of  Southern Sudan ’s ruling party, the Sudan People’s
Liberation Movement, Aguer said. Both of Oliny’s arms were
broken in today’s fighting, he said.  The army has been pursuing the group since clashes in
Malakal, Upper Nile’s capital, on March 12, Aguer said. No
information has been received about casualties in the two
battles, he said.  The independence referendum was the centerpiece of a 2005
peace agreement that ended a civil war that raged for all but
11 years since Sudan’s independence from the U.K. in 1956,
between Sudan’s mostly Muslim north and the south, where
Christianity and traditional religions dominate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  barden@bloomberg.net . 