-- 
South Korea’s CPI Bonds Posting Best Quarter Since ’09 as Asian Sales Grow

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 
2011-03-17T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/south-korea-cpi-bonds-posting-best-quarter-since-09-as-asian-sales-grow.html
South Korea’s inflation-linked
bonds are headed for the biggest quarterly gain since June 2009
as rising consumer prices in  Asia  spur increased demand for the
securities.  South Korean debt that provides protection against rising
prices returned 5 percent this year, headed for a sixth
quarterly gain, while conventional notes advanced 0.3 percent,
according to indexes compiled by Barclays Plc. Consumer prices
in Asia’s fourth-largest economy rose 4.5 percent in February
from a year earlier, the most since November 2008.    Thailand  and Hong Kong plan to join South Korea in selling
inflation-linked debt this year as economic growth in Asia, the
fastest in the world, boosts consumer prices. PineBridge
Investments  Japan  Co., Shin Kong Life Insurance Co. and TMB
Asset Management Co. say the securities are attractive as rising
commodity prices lift living costs across the region, eroding
the appeal of fixed-income assets.  “Asian nations have seen growing inflationary pressure
recently while their  interest rates  are still relatively low,
making inflation-linked bonds even more attractive,” said
Kazuya Sugiura, Tokyo-based managing director of the fund-
business development division at PineBridge. “When we increase
our Asian debt positions, inflation-linkers will definitely be
one of the options.”  Thailand’s core inflation rate, which excludes the cost of
fresh food and fuel, reached a 23-month high in February and
Hong Kong’s consumer prices rose by the most in 29 months in
January. Developing economies in Asia will expand 8.4 percent
this year, more than triple the 2.5 percent growth projected for
advanced countries, according to an International Monetary Fund
estimate.  Lower Coupons  Taiwan is also considering a sale of inflation-linked debt,
while  India ’s central bank sought feedback in December on
securities that would offer protection against price increases.  Inflation-linked bonds typically have lower coupons than
conventional debt because the principal increases annually at
the rate of the  consumer price index .  Polish  government bonds  that offer protection against
rising prices delivered a profit of 2.4 percent this year and
notes issued by  South Africa  returned 1.2 percent during the
period, according to Barclays indexes.  Inflation in  Poland  was
unchanged at 3.6 percent in February from a year earlier, while
in South Africa it accelerated to a six-month high of 3.7
percent in January, official data show.  Breakeven Rates  The so-called breakeven rate on  South Korea ’s 2.75 percent
inflation-linked debt maturing March 2017 rose 46 basis points
this year to 3.06 percent on March 16. The rate, which measures
the gap between yields on inflation-linked and conventional
bonds, is 2.28 percent for similar-maturity notes in the U.S.,
2.10 percent in  France  and minus 0.48 percent in Japan. The
gauge is indicative of traders’ expectations for average annual
inflation until the debt matures.  Thailand will sell 40 billion baht ($1.3 billion) of 10-
year inflation-linked notes in May to help investors preserve
capital amid rising prices, Chakkrit Parapuntakul, director-
general of the finance ministry’s Public Debt Management Office,
said this month. Core consumer prices rose 1.45 percent from a
year earlier in February and the headline inflation rate was 2.9
percent, official figures show. The latter may reach 5 percent
this year, the Bank of Thailand said this month.  “Inflation bonds fit our short-term investment needs
pretty well,” said Zeal Yin, who helps oversee the equivalent
of $51.7 billion as a bond investor at Shin Kong Life in Taipei.
“We are interested in Thai and South Korean inflation bonds.”  ‘Very Interesting Product’    Hong Kong  Financial Secretary John Tsang said on Feb. 23
the city plans to sell as much as HK$10 billion ($1.3 billion)
of inflation-protected securities to individual investors within
six months. Consumer prices climbed 3.6 percent in January from
a year earlier, the most since August 2008.  Taiwan forecasts its inflation rate will double to 2
percent this year, from about 1 percent in 2010.  “We are interested in issuing inflation bonds from a
product diversification perspective,” said Chen Hsueh-shiang,
deputy director-general at Taiwan’s National Treasury Agency.  Inflation-linkers are “a very interesting product,” said
Teerasan Dutiyabodhi, a senior  fund manager  at TMB Asset in
Bangkok, which manages around $3.7 billion. “For investors it’s
good because the market will have more options and products for
us to choose from.”  -- With assistance from David Yong in Singapore: Editors: Andrew
Janes, James Regan  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;  Andrea Wong  in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 