-- 
Spain Sells Bonds in First Test of Confidence in Rescue Fund: Euro Credit

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-03-17T10:22:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/spain-s-bond-sale-to-test-investor-confidence-in-rescue-fund-euro-credit.html
Spain sold bonds today in the first
test of whether  Europe ’s efforts to boost the firepower of its
rescue fund are persuading investors to become more
discriminating about which countries will avoid bailouts.  Spain sold 4.1 billion euros ($5.8 billion) of 30-year debt
and 10-year securities, its first auction since European leaders
agreed March 12 to increase the capacity of the fund. Demand
rose versus the last time securities of similar maturity were
offered Feb. 17, though the auction missed the maximum 4.5
billion-euro target. Spanish bonds were steady after the sale.  “It’s a fairly decent auction,” said  Peter Schaffrik ,
head of European fixed-income strategy at  RBC Capital Markets  in
London. “We are quite positive on tier-two countries which
include  Spain  after the European summit. The fact that it didn’t
go wrong is good.”  EU leaders attempting to end the year-long debt crisis that
led Greece and Ireland to seek a bailout agreed to boost the
effective capacity of its temporary rescue fund to the full 440
billion euros, while expanding enforcement of debt and deficit
limits. The move heightened confidence that contagion won’t push
Spain into a bailout, even as Moody’s Investors Service March 15
cut Portugal’s credit rating a second time in a year.  Spanish 10-year yields rose three basis points to 5.20
percent today and were little changed after the auction. The
securities rallied to their highest in more than a month
yesterday, widening the gap in yields with Portugal, Spain’s
neighbor on the periphery.  “I expect a decrease in the contagion effect from small
peripheries to Spain and  Italy ,”  Ioannis Sokos , a fixed-income
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London, said before the auction.
“We know that this is adequate, that there is a backstop for
Spain if needed.”  Bid-to-Cover  The so-called bid-to-cover ratio for the 10-year debt was
1.81, compared with 1.54 last time securities of similar
maturity were sold on Feb. 17.  The 10-year bonds were sold at a yield of 5.162 percent and
the 30-year debt at 5.875 percent. Spain last sold 10-year bonds
on Feb. 17 at a yield of 5.2 percent. The Treasury sold 30-year
debt the same day at a yield of 5.96 percent.  The gap between Portuguese and Spanish 10-year yields
widened yesterday to 233 basis points, the most since November,
after Moody’s cut  Portugal  two levels to A3, four steps from so-
called junk status. Moody’s also said the outlook remained
negative, indicating another downgrade may follow. The spread
shrank to 229 basis points today.  Spain, whose credit rating was cut to Aa2 by Moody’s last
week, four steps above Portugal, is implementing the deepest
austerity measures in at least three decades. It aims to slash
the euro-region’s third-largest budget deficit from 9.2 percent
last year to 6 percent this year, in line with  France .  Portuguese Auction  Portugal faced higher borrowing costs at a sale of 12-month
bills yesterday, selling the paper for a yield of 4.331 percent,
up from 4.057 percent at the previous auction on March 2. Spain
sold similar-maturity securities on March 15 at 2.128 percent,
less than half the Portuguese rate.  Spain’s Treasury has sold almost a quarter of the gross
93.8 billion euros of bonds that it aims to sell this year,
Treasury Director Soledad Nunez said in an interview on March
10. The country faces its first bond redemptions next month when
15.5 billion euros of debt matures.  Contagion Risk  Spain’s banks may prove more of a hazard to its prospects
of avoiding a rescue than spillover from the other peripheral
countries. The nation’s lenders, which have been hard hit by the
collapse of the country’s real-estate market, face maturities of
long-term debt of at least 22 billion euros in the first four
months of the year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The contagion risk from Spanish banks is more threatening
than the one from Portugal,” Sokos said. “The stress tests and
the funding of the savings banks, especially in April when there
is a spike in funding needs, are more of a risk.”  Spain is trying to restore investor confidence in lenders
hit by the collapse of a decade-long housing boom and tightened
capital requirements last month. To meet the new rules, eight
savings banks and four other lenders must raise a combined 15.2
billion euros in new capital by September, the Bank of Spain
said on March 10. Moody’s estimates the lenders will need as
much as 50 billion euros.  Spanish lenders, which also have $86 billion in claims
related to Portugal, have reduced their reliance on the  European
Central Bank  as optimism Spain will avoid a rescue makes it
easier for them to find private funds, central bank data shows.  Banks and savings banks reduced borrowings from the ECB for
a second month in February to 49.2 billion euros from 53.1
billion euros in January. That compares with a peak of 130
billion euros in July, when international markets were closed to
Spanish lenders. Portuguese banks raised their ECB borrowing in
February for a third month, as concern Spain’s neighbor would
need a bailout left its lenders shut off from private financing.  “The banking side remains a source of concern, but Spanish
banks are back on the  bond market  and less and less dependent on
ECB lending,” said  Gilles Moec , an economist at Deutsche Bank
in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 