-- 
U.S. Futures, European Stocks Rise on G-7 Speculation; Yen Touches Record

-- B y   S t e p h e n   V o s s
-- 
2011-03-17T10:49:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/stocks-in-europe-end-six-day-slide-on-g-7-speculation-u-s-futures-climb.html
European stocks advanced, ending a
six-day slide, and U.S. futures climbed on speculation Group of
Seven officials will act to calm markets roiled by  Japan ’s
nuclear disaster. The yen touched a post-World War II record
before retreating.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 0.8 percent at 9:52 a.m.
in London, and futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1
percent. The yen appreciated 0.7 percent to 79.02 per dollar
after strengthening to 76.36, while the euro advanced 0.7
percent to $1.3994. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note
increased five basis points to 3.22 percent, ending three days
of declines. Oil rallied 1.6 percent amid fighting in Libya.  Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told reporters G-7
officials will meet tomorrow and discussions on the impact of
the March 11 earthquake will encompass currencies, fueling
speculation policy makers will delay any intervention to limit
the yen’s advance. More than 300 workers are racing to prevent a
meltdown and a spread of radiation at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
power station, an increase from a core group of 50 engineers
yesterday,  Tokyo Electric  Power Co. said.  “How the Japanese authorities manage the nuclear crisis is
the obvious near term factor but if another surge in yen buying
is triggered the Japanese authorities would not hesitate to stem
gains,”  Derek Halpenny , European head of currency research at
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London, said in a note
today.  Stocks Advance in Europe  Ten stocks advanced for each that fell in the Stoxx Europe
600 after the index’s valuation reached the cheapest since 2008
yesterday on a reported-earnings basis. Allianz SE led gains
among insurers after a gauge of the industry’s shares slid to a
two-month low yesterday. The increase in S&P 500 futures
indicated the benchmark measure for U.S. stocks will snap a
three-day losing streak. Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average lost
1.4 percent, after earlier tumbling 5 percent.  The  VStoxx Index (V2X) , which measures the cost of insuring
against declines in the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, slipped 4 percent,
retreating from the highest level since July. The VIX, as the
Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index is known, jumped
21 percent yesterday.  The cost of debt insurance for  Tokyo  Electric, battling to
prevent a radiation catastrophe at Fukushima, 220 kilometers
(135 miles) north of Tokyo, rose 34 basis points to 388,
according to CMA. Contracts protecting Japanese  government bonds 
were little changed near a record-high of 118 basis points.  Industrial Production  The Treasury 30-year bond yield rose three basis points
before a report that will probably show  industrial production 
increased in February for a third month in the past four. Output
at factories, mines and utilities climbed 0.6 percent after a
0.1 percent decrease in January, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. Other data may show
inflation excluding food and energy was contained, factories in
the Philadelphia region expanded and an index of the economy’s
outlook climbed for the eighth month.  The yen strengthened against all 16 of its most-traded
peers, rising 2.4 percent versus the New Zealand dollar and 1.1
percent against the South Korean won. The Japanese currency
jumped 4.5 percent versus the dollar in 26 minutes as markets
closed in New York and opened in  Asia , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Yen Strengthens  The yen strengthened amid “very illiquid conditions”
after the  New York  close at 5 p.m. as stop-loss orders
overwhelmed bids for the dollar, Carl Forcheski, a director on
the corporate currency sales desk at Societe Generale SA in New
York, wrote in a note.  One-month implied volatility on options for the dollar-yen
surged as much as 42 percent to 20.10, the highest since March
2009. Volatility was at 8.50 on March 10, a day before the
magnitude-9.0 earthquake hit. Implied volatility is a measure of
expected price swings and the key gauge for option prices.  Oil for April delivery increased to $99.55 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , reversing an earlier decline of as
much as 1.4 percent. Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi’s warplanes
bombed Benghazi’s airport, rebels said, bringing the war to the
opposition capital for the first time since loyalist forces were
driven out of the city last month.  Copper for delivery in three months rose 1 percent to
$9,350 a metric ton on the  London  Metal Exchange, leading gains
in industrial metals. Wheat for May delivery advanced 2.1
percent to $6.76 a bushel in Chicago trading. Soybeans and corn
also climbed.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slipped 0.7 percent. The
Shanghai Composite Index slid 1.1 percent, and  India ’s Sensitive
Index retreated 1.3 percent after the  Reserve Bank  of India
raised  interest rates  for the eighth time in a year. Russia’s
Micex Index jumped 0.8 percent as oil rebounded.  “The situation in Japan is getting worse and foreign
governments are evacuating their people from Tokyo,” said  Thomas Harr , Singapore-based head of Asian foreign-exchange
strategy at Standard Chartered Plc. “The developments in Japan
are very negative for emerging Asia, especially for Northeast
Asia due to the growth impact and economic impact.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Voss in London at   sev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  