-- 
Swiss Central Bank Keeps Rate on Hold as Japan Aftermath Strengthens Franc

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-03-17T10:08:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/swiss-national-bank-keeps-rate-on-hold-as-japan-crisis-adds-franc-pressure.html
The Swiss central bank today kept
borrowing costs near zero as policy makers assess increased
global uncertainty that pushed the franc to a record in the
aftermath of  Japan ’s earthquake.  The Zurich-based  Swiss National Bank , led by Philipp Hildebrand, left its three-month Libor target rate at 0.25
percent. That’s in line with the forecasts of all 20 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey. The SNB raised its forecast for
economic growth and inflation in 2011.  The franc appreciated to a record against the dollar today
as Japan’s quake adds to investor concern that the global
economic recovery may fade in the wake of Middle East unrest and
Europe’s fiscal crisis. While the currency’s strength is
undermining Swiss exports, it is also helping counter price
pressures by making imports cheaper and giving policy makers
room to keep  interest rates  on hold.  “Continuing debt problems in  Europe  and the possible
dampening effects of high  oil prices  on economic activity pose
considerable downside risks,” the SNB said in its statement.
“In addition, the consequences of the earthquake catastrophe in
Japan are, at this stage, difficult to assess.”  The franc gained 0.7 percent and traded at 90.13 centimes
versus the dollar at 11:06 a.m. in Zurich. Against the euro, it
was little changed at 1.2649, down from 1.2621 yesterday.  Franc Surge  The Swiss currency, which is considered a haven in times of
turmoil, has appreciated against the euro as European leaders
struggled to contain the region’s debt crisis. It strengthened
to an all-time high 0f 89.11 centimes against the dollar on
concern about an unfolding nuclear disaster in Japan.  The  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s pledge to secure financial stability
and prevent investors from becoming more risk averse has failed
to stem a plunge in global stocks. In  Germany , Europe’s largest
economy, investor confidence unexpectedly dropped in March. The
benchmark  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  has shed 6.3 percent this year.  Group of Seven nations officials will hold talks on
financial markets and Japan’s economy tomorrow, Japanese Finance
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told reporters in  Tokyo  today.  ‘Step Back’  Worsening global growth prospects and retreating oil prices
may prompt central banks to keep borrowing costs on hold for
longer. European Central Bank council member Ewald Nowotny said
on March 14 that policy makers are monitoring developments
“very closely.” President  Jean-Claude Trichet  had signaled
earlier this month that the bank may raise the benchmark rate as
soon as April to fight price pressures.  “In general the movement of central banks has been to
normalize rates,” said Stefan Hofer, a strategist at Julius
Baer Holding AG in an interview with Bloomberg Television from
Zurich today. “At this moment, it makes sense to take a step
back from this process, for now at least.”  Inflation in the 17-member euro area accelerated to 2.4
percent in February, the fastest in more than two years. In  Switzerland , inflation may average 0.8 percent this year and 1.1
percent in 2012, the SNB said. It previously forecast inflation
at 0.4 percent and 1 percent this year and next. In 2013,
consumer prices may rise an annual 2 percent.  ‘No Rush’  “Although inflation seems to be a threat elsewhere in
Europe, the SNB does not seem to worry yet,” said Julien Manceaux, an economist at ING Group in Brussels. “We don’t
expect any rate increase before the September meeting.”  So far, the economy is weathering the franc’s surge.
Investors grew more optimistic this month, leading economic
indicators rose in February, manufacturing growth accelerated
and unemployment declined. The SNB today raised its growth
forecast for this year to about 2 percent from 1.5 percent.  Near-zero borrowing costs and a strengthening economy have
already fueled property prices in cities including Zurich, which
is home to some of the country’s largest companies such as  UBS
AG (UBSN)  and  Zurich Financial Services AG. (ZURN)  The SNB said that real-
estate developments require its “full attention.”  “As expected, the SNB is a bit more optimistic about
economic growth,” said Fabian Heller, an economist at Credit
Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “Still, as long as the franc remains
strong and inflation is no immediate threat, they are in no rush
to raise rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  