-- 
Syria Should Release All Detained Protesters, Human Rights Says

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-03-17T08:31:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/syria-should-release-all-detained-protesters-human-rights-says.html
  Syria  should immediately release
all those arrested yesterday by security officers who
“violently dispersed a peaceful protest calling for the release
of political activists,”  Human Rights Watch  said.  Syrian authorities detained at least 34 people as 150
protesters demonstrated outside the Interior Ministry and urged
the government in Damascus to release their imprisoned or
detained relatives, the New York-based organization said in an
e-mailed statement late yesterday. Human Rights Watch said it
was able to verify independently the detention of 18 people.  “President Bashar al-Assad’s recent calls for reform ring
hollow when his security services still beat and detain anyone
who actually dares to call for reform,” Sarah Leah Whitson,
Middle East director at  Human Rights Watch , said in the
statement. “Instead of beating families of Syria’s political
prisoners, President al-Assad should be reuniting them with
their loved ones.”  Yesterday’s rally came after as many 200 people protested
in Damascus on March 15 against Assad’s government, according to
members of the opposition. An estimated 1,000 security officers
arrested four people in the Hariqa neighborhood of the capital
and confiscated mobile phones, said Ammar Abdulhamid, a Syrian
dissident who lives in  Maryland  and is in touch with people who
took part, and Suhair Atassi, who participated.    Amnesty International  also condemned the arrests. “Like
many of the political prisoners whose release they were calling
for, protesters appear to have been arrested simply for the
peaceful expression of their views,” Philip Luther, the
organization’s deputy director for the Middle East and North
Africa, said in a  statement  yesterday.  Facebook  Those detained include human-rights and political activists
Suhair Atassi, Omar Labwani and Kamal Sheikho, Human Rights
Watch said. Protesters held at the Mantaqa branch of military
security were interrogated separately, the organization said,
citing a detainee who was released and said he was asked for the
password to his Facebook Inc. account.  Atassi said in a March 15 phone interview that it’s unclear
who is organizing the protests, though dissidents have been
using Facebook’s social-networking website to draw support.  “A number of instigators tried to exploit” the situation
and “to call for demonstrations through uttering some
provocative slogans,” Interior Ministry Brigadier General
Mohammad Hassan Ali said in a statement carried by the state-run
 Syrian Arab News Agency .  Information Minister Mohsen Bilal wasn’t available for
comment when contacted at his office yesterday and Tuesday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  