-- 
U.K. Limits on Student Visas Might Harm Economy, Panel of Lawmakers Says

-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-03-17T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/u-k-limits-on-student-visas-might-harm-economy-panel-of-lawmakers-says.html
A panel of lawmakers warned the
U.K. government that its crackdown on student visas to prevent
immigration fraud could damage a business valued at 40 billion
pounds ($64 billion) a year to universities and colleges.  The government will set out later this year how it intends
to tighten the rules for issuing visas to foreign students as
the government looks for ways to meet Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s pledge to bring net annual immigration below 100,000.  Ideas under consideration include cutting the availability
of visas for study below degree level or tightening English-
language requirements -- both likely to hit language colleges --
more inspections of institutions and limiting students’ right to
work when they finish their courses.  The cross-party  Home Affairs Committee  said in a report
published in  London  today that evidence from  Australia  found
that changes to that country’s visa system contributed to a 19
percent decline in student visa applications from 2009 to 2010.
The panel said the future of the U.K.’s knowledge economy is
“reliant on international students.”  “Students are not migrants,” the committee chairman,
opposition  Labour Party  lawmaker Keith Vaz, said in an e-mailed
statement. “They come from all over the world to study here,
contributing to the economy both through payment of fees and
wider spending. Whilst we are right to seek to eliminate bogus
colleges and bogus students, we need to ensure that we continue
to attract the brightest and the best.”  Popular Destination  The U.K. is the second most popular destination for
international students after the U.S., and it has been estimated
that for every 10 international students, the equivalent of
three full-time jobs are created in Britain, the panel said.
International students make up 10 percent of first-degree
students and more than 40 percent of postgraduate students at
British universities.  Government plans to make non-European Union students return
home before they can apply for a new visa are “too onerous,”
the committee said. They are “likely to lead to a decline in
the retention rate for the high-quality students the U.K.’s
research facilities most desire.”  “This government recognizes the important contribution
that international students make to the U.K. economy, but the
old student visa regime neither controlled immigration nor
protected legitimate students from being exploited by poor
quality colleges,” Immigration Minister Damian Green said in an
e-mailed statement. “We want to refocus the student visa system
as a temporary route and one that is not open to abuse.”  Funding Cuts  At the same time as they face possible restrictions on
foreign students, most of  England ’s 130 universities are having
their government funding cut as Cameron’s coalition makes budget
savings.  Oxford University, the oldest in the English-speaking
world, was one of only five universities to see its central
government funding increased for 2011-12 in figures announced
today.  The  London School of Economics  and  University College
London  also gained increases to their grants of less than 2
percent. Total central government funding for higher education
in 2011-12 will be 6.5 billion pounds, down 9.5 percent on the
year before.  According to the University and College Union, which
represents academics, the cuts fall most heavily on institutions
that focus on teaching, not research.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net  or  Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 