-- 
U.K. Sale of Tote Bookmaker May Bring Job Cuts, Chairman Mike Smith Says

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-03-17T12:53:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/u-k-sale-of-tote-bookmaker-may-bring-job-cuts-chairman-mike-smith-says.html
Selling the  Horserace Totalisator
Board , the state-owned bookmaker known as the Tote, to a third-
party bidder may lead to job losses and could hurt British
racing, its chairman said.  The U.K. government is trying to sell the Tote, which
employs 5,000 people, as it goes through its biggest budget
squeeze since World War II.  Bookmakers Betfred Ltd. and Gala Coral Group Ltd.,
billionaire property investors David and Simon Reuben and  Martin Broughton , who oversaw the sale of Liverpool Football Club in
October, are all bidding for the country’s fourth-largest
bookmaker. The Racing Foundation, which is headed by Smith and
fellow Tote executive Trevor Beaumont, has also put forward a
proposal.  “The worst-case scenario for us is that the Foundation
doesn’t win and that someone taking very short-term views does
not feel obligations to staff or the racing industry,” Tote
chairman  Mike Smith  said in an interview with a small group of
reporters in London today.  The Tote contributes close to 4 million pounds a year in
prize money to British racing, or one-third of total winnings,
Smith said.  “There must be a risk - particularly if a bidder has
short-term backing from private equity - that it does not give
such support as the Foundation can give,” said Smith, a former
Chief Executive of U.K. bookmaker Ladbrokes Plc.  A sale of the Tote may raise as much as 200 million pounds,
according to reports last month by media including the Sunday
Times.  The Tote was founded in 1928 as an on-course alternative to
bookmakers at horse race meetings. The company has a monopoly on
pool betting on racing, a form of gambling where the money
wagered is combined and, after a deduction for costs, is divided
up among winning bettors.  Racing bodies including the  Jockey Club , which owns and
operates 14 racecourses in the U.K., have previously called for
the  Tote  to remain independent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the  London  sports desk on   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  