-- 
U.K. Stocks Rebound From Six-Day Selloff; BHP, Heritage Oil Gain

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-03-17T17:08:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/u-k-stocks-advance-xstrata-rio-tinto-bhp-billiton-anglo-american-rise.html
U.K. stocks advanced, rebounding
from a six-day selloff, amid speculation that tomorrow’s Group
of Seven nations meeting will act to calm markets roiled by
Japan’s largest earthquake on record.    BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  rallied more than 3
percent in  London  as copper climbed on optimism that demand from
Japan will increase.  SIG Plc (SHI)  led building-related companies
higher, surging 7.8 percent.  Heritage Oil Plc (HOIL)  jumped 8.2 percent
on a report the explorer rejected a takeover bid from  Abu Dhabi .  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  climbed 1.8 percent to 5,696.11 at the
4:30 p.m. close in London, rebounding from the longest stretch
of losses in more than two years. The  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  also
gained 1.7 percent, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index rose 2.9 percent.  “Buyers have stepped up as recent falls have been seen to
be overdone,” said Jonathan Sudaria, a trader at London Capital
Group. The “emergency G-7 meeting may lead to some form of
global intervention to stabilize markets.”  G-7 finance chiefs will hold talks on financial markets and  Japan ’s economy, the world’s third-largest, when they meet
tomorrow after global equities plunged and the yen surged to a
post-World War II high.  The benchmark FTSE 100 had tumbled 9.4 percent from this
year’s high on Feb. 8 through yesterday as political unrest in
the Middle East and North Africa sent oil prices surging and
Japan battled to stop its Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant
from leaking radiation following the March 11 earthquake and
subsequent tsunami.  Japan’s Nuclear Plant  Stocks extended their gains amid speculation Japan will
contain its nuclear crisis. More than 300 workers battled to
prevent a meltdown and spread of radiation at the crippled power
station today, an increase from 180 yesterday. Efforts to use
water cannons and helicopters to cool the reactor may have had
some success, Tokyo Electric Power Co. said.  BHP, the world’s largest mining company, led a gauge of
mining shares higher, climbing 3.1 percent to 2,281 pence.
Xstrata, the world’s fourth-largest copper producer, advanced
3.7 percent to 1,378 pence, while  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  increased 4.3
percent to 1,347 pence.  Three-month-delivery copper on the London Metal Exchange
climbed as much as 3.3 percent to $9,565 a metric ton. The
rebuilding of damaged infrastructure should lead to greater
consumption of commodities, HSBC Securities’ James Steel wrote
in a March 15 report.  SIG surged 7.8 percent to 130.5 pence after Europe’s
biggest supplier of insulation said trading for the first two
months of this year was in line with its forecasts and exceeded
trading in the year-earlier period. The company also plans to
resume paying dividends after suspending them to reduce debt and
conserve cash.  Travis Perkins Jumps    Travis Perkins Plc (TPK) , the U.K.’s biggest building merchant,
rose 4.3 percent to 974 pence, while  Wolseley Plc (WOS) , the world’s
biggest supplier of heating and plumbing products, gained 4
percent to 2,077 pence.  Both stocks had declined for the previous five days.  Heritage Oil rallied 8.2 percent to 313.5 pence after the
Financial Times reported that the company has rejected an
informal 1.2 billion-pound ($1.9 billion) offer from an
unidentified Abu Dhabi-based company. The newspaper cited a
person familiar with the situation. Heritage’s chief financial
officer and head of investor relations were not available to
comment.    Aegis Group Plc (AGS)  jumped 6.3 percent to 138.6 pence, the
first advance in four days, after the world’s largest
independent buyer of advertising space forecast higher operating
profit in 2011 and a 10 percent increase in its full-year
dividend.    Premier Farnell Plc (PFL)  gained 1.3 percent to 280.2 pence after
the U.K. supplier of electronic components posted a 77 percent
climb in full-year net income to 66.2 million pounds. Revenue
advanced 25 percent.    Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc (HIK)  advanced 4 percent to 723 pence
after Morgan Stanley raised its recommendation on the Jordanian
drugmaker to “overweight” from “equal weight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  