-- 
U.S. Begins Airlift as Japan Battles Nuclear Reactor Leaks

-- B y   A a r o n   S h e l d r i c k ,   T e r j e   L a n g e l a n d   a n d   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 
2011-03-18T05:25:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/u-k-urges-citizens-to-consider-leaving-tokyo-as-foreign-pessimism-climbs.html
The U.S. began  airlifting citizens 
from Japan along with military and diplomatic families as
authorities struggled to contain leaks from the quake-stricken
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant.  The U.S., U.K. and  Australia  raised their alert levels,
telling nationals to keep at least 50 miles (80 kilometers) away
from the Dai-Ichi facility.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  suspended operations
in Tokyo, while British Airways became the latest carrier to
pull crews out of the city, which lies about 135 miles to the
south of the reactors.  Shortages of fuel, water and food assailed Fukushima, a
city of 290,000 in the shadow of an unfolding nuclear crisis.
Helicopters doused 30 metric tons of water on pools used to cool
spent fuel rods yesterday. A bid to spray water onto the No. 3
reactor may have worked, a Tokyo Electric Power Co. official
said at a briefing. The company is also trying to connect a
power cable to the plant.  “New challenges are crashing down on us one after
another,” Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said yesterday in  Tokyo .
“We will overcome these difficulties through extreme effort and
meet the expectations of our people, who are remaining calm.”  The magnitude-9 earthquake that hit March 11 sparked a 7-
meter (23-foot) tsunami that engulfed Japan’s northeast coast
and knocked out cooling systems at the Dai-Ichi plant. There
were 6,406 confirmed dead, with 10,259 missing as of 11 a.m.
Tokyo time, the  National Police Agency  said.  Hong Kong Flights  Hong Kong’s government urged its residents living in Tokyo
to return home or move to southern Japan “due to the evolving
situation.” The city is arranging for additional flights to
leave from Tokyo’s Narita airport, its government said in a
statement posted on its website yesterday evening.  The U.S. government evacuated 97 citizens, including family
members of employees, to  Taiwan  from Japan, according to Sheila
Paskman, a spokeswoman for the American Institute in Taiwan, the
de facto embassy on the island. Another flight of evacuees will
leave later today to Taiwan or  Seoul , Paskman said by telephone
from Taipei today.    Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,  France ’s second-largest bank, said it
was assisting foreign employees and their families to leave
Japan if they wished to do so, while allowing local staff to
work from home or relocate. Blackstone Group LP and BNP Paribas
SA were among companies that shifted operations from Tokyo.  Aftershocks, Blackouts  “There are still aftershocks, we have the rolling
blackouts in our area and concern about the radiation,” Keith
Cash, a preschool teacher at the U.S. Atsugi air base, said as
he prepared to put his wife and four children on a plane back to
the U.S. “All of those things put together have really forced
us to decide that we want to have them go back.”  The Group of Seven agreed to jointly intervene in the
foreign exchange market for the first time in more than a decade
after Japan’s currency soared, according to a joint statement
today following a conference call of the nations’ finance
ministers and central bank chiefs. The quake triggered a drop in
global stocks and drove the yen to a post-World War II high.  Japan’s benchmark Topix index rose 2.1 percent at 2:24 p.m.,
curtailing its loss since the disaster to 10 percent. In the
U.S., investor speculation that Japan will contain the nuclear
crisis contributed to a stock rally that broke a three-day
losing streak for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The  iShares
MSCI Japan Index Fund (EWJ)  tracking 323 securities rose 4.6 percent,
following a 14 percent slump over the previous five days.  Obama Assures U.S.  President  Barack Obama  said he’s “confident” that Japan
will rebuild and recover. At the White House later in the day,
Obama said that the U.S. faces no danger of “harmful levels of
radiation” reaching the country or its Pacific territories and
that he has ordered a “comprehensive review” of safety at
domestic nuclear plants.  Power may be restored to one of the crippled reactors at
Japan’s damaged Fukushima nuclear power plant by this afternoon,
improving the odds that workers can prevent a meltdown and
further radiation leaks.  In Fukushima city, the capital of the prefecture that is
home to the plant, long lines formed at gas stations, most
restaurants and supermarkets were shut and there was no running
water. Radiation levels have declined to safe levels for workers,
Japanese government spokesman  Yukio Edano  said.  May Take Weeks    Japan ’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency said yesterday
there is a possibility of no water at the No. 4 reactor’s spent-
fuel cooling pool. If exposed to air, the fuel rods could decay,
catch fire and spew radioactive materials into the air. The
plant has six reactors, three of which have been damaged by
explosions following the quake.  The situation “will take some time, possibly weeks” to
resolve, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Chairman Gregory Jaczko told reporters in  Washington  yesterday. “There clearly
appears to be a challenge keeping that spent fuel filled with
sufficient water.” Based on the NRC’s advice, the U.S. urged
Americans within a 50-mile radius of the plant to leave.  The U.S. chartered 14 buses that are en route to the Sendai
area for U.S. residents and tourists who wish to leave, Under
Secretary of State Patrick Kennedy said. Those buses will take
U.S. citizens to Tokyo for flights out of Japan.  There are an estimated 350,000 U.S. citizens in Japan,
including about 90,000 in the Tokyo area, Kennedy said.  Consider Departing  U.S. nationals “in Japan should consider departing,” the
State Department said in an e-mailed statement.  The U.S. Customs and Border Protection agency said it has
intensified efforts to detect radiation on flights arriving from
Japan and has found no dangerous levels for passengers or cargo.  The U.K. government is also hiring planes to take its
nationals to  Hong Kong , the Foreign Office said on its website.  Australia recommended that its citizens stay away from the
northern part of Honshu island and Tokyo unless their presence
is essential. France, Germany and  China  were among countries
that urged nationals to leave Japan.  In 2009, the latest data available, there were 66,876 U.S.
and Canadian citizens registered with Japan’s Justice Ministry,
along with 16,597 Britons and 14,179 from Australia and  New
Zealand . China had 680,518 residents and the Philippines 211,716.  Fear that radiation would spread through the region sparked
panic-buying in China. Shoppers cleared shelves of salt, viewed
as a defense against  radiation exposure .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Sheldrick in Tokyo at 
 asheldrick@bloomberg.net ;
Terje Langeland in Osaka at 
 tlangeland1@bloomberg.net ;
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  