-- 
Consumer Comfort in U.S. Drops to Lowest Since August

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-03-17T20:59:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/u-s-consumer-confidence-drops-to-lowest-since-august-in-bloomberg-index.html
Consumer  confidence  plunged last
week to the lowest level since August as rising gasoline prices
made Americans more pessimistic about the economic outlook and
their finances.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index dropped to minus 48.5
in the period to March 13 from minus 44.5 the prior week.
Sentiment fell across most income and age groups and worsened
for all education levels.  Higher gasoline prices persisted for another week, becoming
a bigger concern for Americans already dealing with rising
grocery bills. The report showed confidence among households
with annual incomes exceeding $100,000 fell to the lowest level
since November, posing a risk for  consumer spending , the biggest
part of the economy.  The report “shows further evidence of the mounting
concerns that the U.S. consumer has about the outlook, with  oil
prices  the main factor crimping their optimism,” said  David Semmens , a U.S. economist at Standard Chartered Bank in  New
York . “Any weakness in the U.S. consumer creates significant
concern.”  Other reports today showed that the cost of living climbed
more than forecast last month, driven by prices of food and
fuel, while manufacturing expanded and an index of U.S. leading
economic indicators rose.  Stocks rallied, halting the biggest three-day drop in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since August, as  Japan  moved closer
to restoring power at a nuclear plant and FedEx Corp. boosted
its profit forecast. The  S&P 500  climbed 1.3 percent to close at
1,273.72 in New York.  Began in 1985  The Bloomberg comfort index, which began December 1985,
fell to a record low of minus 54 in November 2008, while the
peak of 38 was reached in January 2000. Readings averaged minus
45.7 last year.  The latest results for the comfort index reflected
worsening results for all three subcomponents.  A gauge of Americans’ views of the economy fell to minus
80.3 last week, the lowest level since November, from minus 76.8
the prior week. The share of households with a positive view of
the economy dropped to 10 percent from 12 percent.  The measure of personal finances swung to minus 7.7 last
week, from minus 3.7, the report showed. Forty-six percent of
those polled held positive views on their financial situation,
down from 48 percent the previous week.  An index of the buying climate fell to minus 57.4, the
lowest since October 2009, from minus 53. Those saying it was a
good time to buy needed items dropped to 21 percent from 24
percent the previous week.  Labor Market  Today’s report showed the improvement in the labor market
is doing little to lift consumers’ moods. The index for
Americans with full-time jobs fell to minus 35.4 last week, the
lowest level since October, while it worsened for those who were
unemployed.  Initial claims for  unemployment benefits  fell for a third
week in the last four, according to a Labor Department report
today. Applications decreased by 16,000 to 385,000 in the week
ended March 12. The four-week average of claims dropped to the
lowest level since July 2008.  The average price of regular gasoline at the pump climbed
another 5 cents to $3.56 a gallon in the week ended March 13,
according to AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring organization.
That followed a gain of 14 cents the prior week and 20 cents a
week before that.  The report is “showing trouble across the board,”  Gary
Langer , president of Langer Research Associates LLC in New York,
which compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in a statement.
“While global disruption from the crisis in Japan to the unrest
in the Middle East can’t help, the most likely proximate cause
is the price of gasoline.”  Looking for Bargains    Gas prices  are going to continue to challenge people,”
William Simon, chief executive officer of U.S. operations for
Bentonville, Arkansas-based  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , said on a
conference call with investors on March 10. “As gas prices go
up, it costs more to fill up your tank, and they’re looking for
bargains.”  Gasoline prices and the comfort index have shown a strong
inverse correlation since 2004, according to calculations by  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in New
York. Additionally, changes in the four-week average of claims
for jobless benefits have been in sync with the comfort gauge
about 72 percent of the time.  Buying Climate  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
aged 18 and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their
views on the economy, personal finances and buying climate; the
percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the share of
positive views and divided by three. The most recent reading is
based on the average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  The responses are broken down by participants’ sex, age,
income level, race, region of residence, political affiliation,
marital and employment status.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  