-- 
U.S. Stocks Advance on FedEx, Japan’s Efforts to Contain Crisis

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-03-17T20:43:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/u-s-stock-index-futures-climb-lockheed-martin-qualcomm-guess-may-move.html
U.S. stocks rallied, breaking a
three-day losing streak for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
amid investor speculation that Japan will contain a nuclear
crisis and as  FedEx Corp. (FDX) ’s profit forecast beat estimates.  The  iShares MSCI Japan Index Fund (EWJ)  tracking 323 securities
rose 4.6 percent, following a 14 percent slump over the previous
five days. FedEx, which runs the biggest cargo airline and is
considered a proxy for economic growth, gained 3.1 percent.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  added at least
1.7 percent as a person familiar with the matter said the
Federal Reserve will tell some of the largest U.S. banks
tomorrow whether they can raise their dividends or buybacks.  The  S&P 500  advanced 1.3 percent to 1,273.72 at 4 p.m. in  New York . The gauge, which had declined 3.6 percent over the
last three days, yesterday traded at 14.7 times reported
earnings, the lowest valuation since November, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  added
161.29 points, or 1.4 percent, to 11,774.59 today.  “The market is oversold,” said  Mike Ryan , the New York-
based head of wealth management research for the Americas at UBS
Financial Services Inc., which oversees $741 billion. “The
major focus is on whether or not  Japan  will be able to get any
kind of containment on the nuclear reactors. The G-7 meeting is
constructive as they are probably going to talk about what type
of aid they may provide. There’s also the unrest in northern  Africa  and the Middle East. The corporate outlook will help, but
it’s still going to be about headline and geopolitical risks.”  G-7 Meeting  The S&P 500 had tumbled 6.4 percent from its 32-month high
in February through yesterday amid concern Japan’s worst
earthquake on record and uprisings in the Middle East and
northern Africa will derail the global economic recovery. The
yen strengthened to a post-World War II high as Group of Seven
officials prepare to meet tomorrow to discuss the threat to the
world’s third-largest economy from a worsening nuclear crisis.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. said efforts to use water cannons
and helicopters to cool its damaged Fukushima nuclear plant may
have had some success as workers try to stop radioactive
pollution spreading. A bid to spray water onto the No. 3 reactor
may have worked, a Tokyo Electric official said at a briefing.
The company is trying to connect a power cable to the plant.  The  International Atomic Energy Agency  said the situation
at three loaded reactor cores in Japan’s Fukushima nuclear
complex has been “relatively stable” in the last 24 hours. All
of the units are damaged and don’t have cooling, IAEA Director
Graham Andrew said today at a press briefing in Vienna. The
situation remains “very serious,” he said.  No Redemptions  Pacific Investment Management Co. , the world’s biggest
manager of bond funds, hasn’t seen redemptions from Asia
investors following last week’s earthquake in Japan, Chief
Executive Officer Mohamed El-Erian said.  “It’s too early,” as the immediate effect is to worry
about the human consequences first, El-Erian said on Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness” in an interview with Margaret Brennan. “There is a period of shock until people fully
understand the enormity of what happened.”  In Japan, the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average slid 1.4 percent
after losing as much as 5 percent. The iShares MSCI Japan Index
Fund gained 4.6 percent to $10.10 in U.S. trading, after
yesterday dropping to the lowest level since September.  The slide in stocks has left both developed and emerging
market equities “mildly oversold,” according to Citigroup Inc.
global strategist  Robert Buckland .  ‘Impetus’  “Perhaps ongoing fears will provide the impetus for global
equities to get even more oversold,” he wrote. “Unless these
events have a meaningful impact upon the economy, then a further
sell-off would offer an opportunity to get more bullish. The
best time to take risk on is when others want to take it off.”  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, which
measures the cost of using options as insurance against declines
in the S&P 500, slumped 10 percent to 26.37. The VIX jumped 21
percent to 29.40 yesterday for its highest close since July.  The VIX benchmark index for U.S. stock options will average
18.50 this year, below its historic average, as the continuing
economic recovery reduces stock-market swings, Susquehanna
Financial Group LLLP said. S&P 500 fluctuations are likely to
decrease as the  Federal Reserve  keeps  interest rates  near record
lows to boost economic growth, according to a report from Trevor Mottl, the firm’s head of derivative strategy.  “Improving U.S. economic conditions, accommodative
monetary policy, and increased real financial activity will act
to collectively stabilize risk-asset prices, supporting our
forecast of lower realized S&P 500 volatility,” Mottl wrote.  Most-Tied  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies most-tied to
economic activity advanced 1.4 percent as 26 of its 30 stocks
gained. The Dow Jones Transportation Average of 20 stocks
rallied 1.4 percent.  FedEx rose 3.1 percent to $87.89. Per-share earnings for
the fiscal fourth quarter ending May 31 will be $1.66 to $1.83 a
share, the company said today. Analysts had projected $1.66, the
average of 22 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  gained 1.4 percent as 23 of its 24
stocks rallied. JPMorgan rose 1.7 percent to $44.56. Bank of
America added 2.1 percent to $13.98.    Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  added 3.6 percent to $52.32. The largest
producer of mobile-phone chips said it expects last week’s
Japanese earthquake and tsunami to have a limited effect on its
supplies.  HP, Apple Climb    Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  rallied 3.2 percent to $41.43, while  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  gained 1.4 percent to $334.64. Credit Suisse rated
the stocks “outperform” and the hardware industry
“overweight,” citing the outlook for growth in demand.  Energy producers had the biggest gain in the S&P 500 within
10 industries, rising 3.1 percent. Crude oil climbed the most in
three weeks on concern that unrest in North Africa and the
Middle East will spread, reducing shipments from the region. Oil
advanced 3.5 percent to $101.42 a barrel.    Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s largest oilfield services
provider, gained 4.8 percent to $87.05. ConocoPhillips added 4
percent to $76.72.  The S&P 500 will fall to 1,232 by March 31, marking the
bottom of a “modest correction,” according to Birinyi
Associates Inc., which cited data measuring average drops of at
least 5 percent since 1945.  The decrease would represent a 2 percent retreat from
yesterday’s close of 1,256.88. When the S&P 500 loses 5 percent
during a rallying period, the decline lasts an average of 41
days and extends to 8.3 percent, according to a report today by
Cleve Rueckert, an analyst at Birinyi Associates.  “History suggests that the current decline will be short-
lived, and most likely presents a buying opportunity,” the
Westport, Connecticut-based research and money-management firm
said in a report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  