-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Thailand May Curb Rubber Exports

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-03-17T12:18:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-thailand-may-curb-rubber-exports.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Soaked Midwest Soil Boosts Flood Risk for Wheat, Sandbag Cities  Excessive snow in the northern Great Plains and Midwest may
spur floods that rival the record- setting deluge of 2009,
threatening U.S. wheat crops and livestock as cities in the
region stockpile sandbags.  Ex-Goldman Oil Trader Saiz’s Fund Said to Gain 8.2% in Feb. (1)  Vector Commodity Management LLP, a hedge fund run by former
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. trader Gilbert Saiz, made 8.2 percent
last month, six times the industry average, said two people with
direct knowledge of the matter.  Thailand,  Indonesia  May Curb Rubber Exports to Stem Drop (1)  Thailand, Indonesia and Malaysia, the world’s biggest
rubber growers, will probably delay exports to counter a price
slump as demand outpaces supply during the low production
period, according to a producers’ group.  EBX to Issue Deals for Three Supertanker Conversions This Year  EBX Group Ltd., headed by Brazilian billionaire  Eike
Batista , plans to award deals for converting three supertankers
into floating oil production and storage vessels this year as it
develops South American oilfields.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Rises as Demand May Climb on Japanese Rebuilding Efforts  Copper rose for a second day in London on speculation that
demand may increase as  Japan  rebuilds after last week’s
earthquake and tsunami.  MINING:    Rio Tinto  Adds Uranium Resources at Rossing Mine in Namibia (1)  Rio Tinto Group said estimates of uranium resources more
than doubled at its Namibian Rossing mine, the world’s third-
biggest producer of the nuclear fuel.  Vale Iron Ore Sales to Japan Unaffected by Quake, Zhu Says (1)  Vale SA, the world’s largest iron- ore producer, said that
shipments to Japan haven’t been affected by the recent
earthquake and that clients are still honoring contracts.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold May Gain as Japan Crisis, Middle East Unrest Spur Demand  Gold may gain for a second day in London as unrest in the
Middle East and North  Africa  and Japan’s nuclear crisis boost
demand for a protection of wealth. Platinum and palladium
touched three-month lows.  Deutsche Bank Hires Mulholland for South Africa Precious Metals  Deutsche Bank AG’s South African unit hired Anna Mulholland
as head of precious metals research.  AGRICULTURE:  Indonesia Rubber Group Says $4 Price Should Be Defended (1)  The Rubber Association of Indonesia wants a price of $4 per
kilogram defended and urged its members not to sell in a panic
after prices plunged.  Coffee Climbs to Three-Year High on  Vietnam  Crop; Sugar Gains  Coffee rose to a three-year high in London on speculation
dry weather in Vietnam, the world’s top grower of the robusta
variety, may hurt production from the next harvest in October.
Sugar advanced.  Rubber in Tokyo Jumps Most in Two Years on Thai Supply Concerns  Rubber jumped the most in more than two years as supply
tightened after the Thai government asked exporters to halt
shipments and as Japanese tire plants resumed production after
last week’s earthquake.  Tocom Says May Suspend After-Hours Trade in Case of Blackouts  The Tokyo Commodity Exchange said after-hours trading for
rubber and other futures may be suspended today in case of power
outages in the area, the bourse said in a faxed statement.  Thailand, Indonesia May Delay Rubber Shipments, Consortium Says  Thailand, Indonesia and  Malaysia , the world’s biggest
rubber producers, will probably delay shipments to counter a
price slump as demand outpaces supply during the low production
period, according to the International Rubber Consortium Ltd.  SHIPPING:    St. Petersburg  Port Says Ships Blocked by Ice Declined to 80  About 80 ships are backed up at the Russian port of St.
Petersburg because of ice, fewer than a week ago, a port
official said.  ECONOMIES:  G-7 to Discuss Japan Tomorrow After Yen Climbs to Postwar High  The yen strengthened to a post- World War II high as Group
of Seven officials prepare to meet to discuss the threat to the
world’s third-largest economy from last week’s earthquake and a
worsening nuclear crisis.    India  Raises Rates for Eighth Time in a Year to Curb Prices (2)  India’s central bank increased  interest rates  for the
eighth time in a year after raising its inflation forecast twice
in three months. Stocks and bonds fell.  Japan May Face ‘Irreversible’ Blow to Power Capacity (1)  Japan may face “irreversible” damage to power-supply
capacity from the March 11 earthquake, limiting business
activity, Citigroup Inc. said.  OTHER MARKETS:  Commodities Gain for Second Day; Oil Rises on Middle East Unrest  Commodities gained for a second consecutive day, led by oil
after fighting in  Libya  intensified, renewing concern that
Middle East supplies may be further threatened in Africa’s
third-largest fuel producer.  European Stocks, U.S. Futures Gain; Yen Slips From Postwar High  European stocks advanced, ending a six-day slide, and U.S.
futures climbed on speculation Group of Seven officials will act
to calm markets roiled by Japan’s nuclear disaster. The yen
touched a post-World War II record before retreating.  U.S. Stock Futures Advance; Lockheed Martin, Qualcomm Climb  U.S. stock-index futures climbed, indicating the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index will rebound from the lowest level since
December, amid speculation Group of Seven nations will move to
calm markets after Japan’s tremor.  European Stocks Gain, Ending Six-Day Slide; U.S. Futures Advance  European stocks advanced, halting a six-day slide, amid
speculation Group of Seven nations will move to calm markets
after Japan’s earthquake-induced nuclear crisis. Japanese shares
pared their losses and U.S. futures gained.  Oil Gains as Libya Fighting Escalates; UBS Raises Brent Forecast  Oil rose for a second day as concerns that political unrest
may cut Middle Eastern exports countered estimates that the
earthquake in Japan will curtail fuel demand.  Emerging Stocks Drop to Three-Week Low on Japan; Micex Advances  Developing-nation stocks fell, sending the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index to a three-week low, as concern deepened that a
nuclear disaster in Japan may curb global economic growth.  SPORTS:  United’s Ferguson ‘Spitting Mad’ About Ban, Sun Says: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in  London  at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  