-- 
U.S. House Passes Measure to Cut Off Funding for National Public Radio

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-03-18T04:00:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/u-s-house-votes-to-bar-federal-funds-for-national-public-radio.html
The U.S. House voted to  end  federal
funding of  National Public Radio , whose chief executive
resigned last week after a video purported to show another
network official criticizing Republicans and Tea Party
activists.  The legislation, approved 228-192 yesterday over objections
from the Obama administration, also would bar more than 700
local public  radio stations  from using federal funds to buy
programming, either from NPR or any other outlet.  The measure is unlikely to get a vote in the Democratic-
dominated Senate.  Democrats opposing the bill accused Republicans of
political interference with NPR because of objections to its
news coverage.  “This legislation does not serve any fiscal purpose but it
does serve an ugly ideological one,” said Representative
Henry Waxman, a California Democrat. “This legislation is not
about reforming NPR, it is about punishing NPR.”  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican,
said the main reason for the bill is “making sure that we are
spending taxpayer dollars the way that the people that earn them
would spend them.”  Still, Cantor and other lawmakers voiced objections to
NPR’s coverage.  “We’ve seen NPR and its programming often veer far from
what Americans would like to see as far as the expenditure of
their taxpayer dollars,” Cantor said in a floor speech.  ‘Unacceptable Bias’  Representative  Tom Price , a Georgia Republican, said in a
statement it was “past time” for government funding of NPR to
end because in recent months the network “has exhibited a
troubling level of inexplicable and unacceptable bias.”  NPR, in an e-mailed statement, called the measure “a
direct effort to weaken public radio that would ultimately choke
local stations’ ability to serve their audiences.”  Representative John Larson, a Connecticut Democrat, said
Republicans object to NPR’s news coverage because “it is not on
the same ideological frequency” as “the extreme right.”  Vivian Schiller, NPR’s chief executive, resigned March 9
after the release of the videotaped comments by an NPR
fundraiser who also questioned whether the network needed to
continue to receive federal funds.  Those comments by fundraiser Ron Schiller, no relation to
the former chief executive, were cited by Republican lawmakers
as a reason for ending federal sponsorship of NPR, which also
receives money from private donors and sponsors.  Firing of Williams  Calls by Republicans to cut off government funds for NPR
began last October after the network fired reporter Juan Williams. He was fired after saying on Fox News, which employed
him as a part-time commentator, that he got nervous on airplanes
whenever he saw passengers dressed in traditional Muslim garb.
Williams later was hired to a full-time job at Fox News.  NPR’s firing of Williams led to the resignation in January
of the radio network’s top news executive, Ellen Weiss.  NPR received $1.9 million from the Corporation for Public
Broadcasting in the 2010 fiscal year, in addition to $731,718
from federal grants it got through competition, said Danielle Deabler, a spokeswoman for the network. She didn’t have an
estimate of federal money it receives indirectly through program
purchases and dues from member stations.  Catherine Mortensen, a spokeswoman for Colorado Republican
Douglas Lamborn, said these stations used federal money to
purchase $64 million in programming and other membership
services from NPR and pay dues to the network in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in  Washington  at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  