-- 
U.S. February Industrial Production and Capacity Report (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-03-17T13:15:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/u-s-february-industrial-production-and-capacity-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.  industrial production  and capacity utilization report for
February released by the Federal Reserve.  Industrial Production and Capacity Utilization  Industrial production declined 0.1 percent in February
after having risen 0.3 percent in January; output in January was
previously estimated to have edged down 0.1 percent.
Manufacturing output increased 0.4 percent in February, and the
gain in January was revised up to 0.9 percent.  Outside of
manufacturing, the output of mines rose 0.8 percent in February,
which more than reversed its decline in January.  However, the
output of utilities fell 4.5 percent--the drop reflected
unseasonably warm weather in February, which reduced the demand
for heating after two months of unseasonably cold temperatures.
At 95.5 percent of its 2007 average, total industrial production
was 5.6 percent above its year-earlier level. The capacity
utilization rate for total industry edged down 0.1 percentage
point to 76.3 percent, a rate 4.2 percentage points below its
average from 1972 to 2010.  Market Groups  The production of  consumer goods  fell 0.5 percent in
February, largely because of weakness in consumer energy
products.  The output of consumer durable goods rose 2.4 percent,
with gains in all of its major categories.  The production of
consumer automotive products advanced 3.5 percent, and the index
for home electronics moved up 1.0 percent.  The index for
appliances, furniture, and carpeting climbed 3.1 percent, which
almost offset its decline over the two previous months, and the
production of miscellaneous  consumer durables  increased 0.6
percent.  The output of non-energy nondurable goods moved down
0.2 percent. Reductions in the production of foods and tobacco,
of chemical products, and of paper products more than offset an
increase in clothing output.  The output of consumer energy
products fell 5.2 percent, largely because of a drop in
residential sales by electric and natural gas utilities.  The output of business equipment rose 0.5 percent in
February; the average monthly gain of nearly 1.2 percent in
January and February was unchanged from the average rate of
increase in the fourth quarter. Within business equipment, the
output of transit equipment moved up 1.2 percent in February,
and the index for information processing equipment increased 0.6
percent.  The production of industrial and other equipment rose
0.2 percent--lower output of farm and construction machinery
partly offset gains elsewhere in this category.  In February, the production index for defense and space
equipment climbed 1.7 percent after posting a small increase in
the previous month.  Over the past 12 months, this index has
risen 4.2 percent.  Among nonindustrial supplies, the output of construction
supplies was unchanged in February and up only slightly since
November.  The production of business supplies fell 0.6 percent
in February, mostly because of a decline in commercial sales by
electric and natural gas utilities.  The index for non-energy
business supplies edged up 0.1 percent--its fourth consecutive
monthly increase.  The output of materials to be processed further in the
industrial sector rose 0.1 percent in February. The index for
non-energy materials increased 0.3 percent; the production of
durable materials moved up 0.5 percent, but the output of
nondurables was unchanged.  The indexes for all of the major
components of durable materials advanced with the largest gain
being a 2.0 percent increase in consumer parts.  Among
nondurable materials, increases in the output of textile
materials and paper materials were offset by a step-down in the
production of chemical materials.  The index for energy
materials declined 0.2 percent, as drops in coal mining,
electricity generation, and natural gas transmission were partly
offset by gains elsewhere.  Industry Groups  In February, manufacturing output rose 0.4 percent, and
over the past 12 months the level of factory production has
climbed almost 7 percent.  Capacity utilization for
manufacturing moved up 0.2 percentage point to 74.3 percent, a
rate 4.8 percentage points below its average from 1972 to 2010
but almost 9 percentage points above its trough in June 2009.  The production of durable goods advanced 0.9 percent in
February, and gains were widespread across its major categories.
The output of motor vehicles and parts rose 4.2 percent
following an increase of 4.5 percent in January; since December
2010, total motor vehicle assemblies have risen about 1 million
units to an annual rate of 8.5 million units.  Sizable gains
also were recorded in February in wood products; nonmetallic
mineral products; computer and electronic products; electrical
equipment, appliances, and components; furniture and related
products; and miscellaneous manufacturing.  Among other
industries, the indexes for fabricated metal products and for
aerospace and miscellaneous transportation equipment recorded
small increases, the index for machinery was unchanged, and the
index for primary metals decreased.  Production in nondurable manufacturing was unchanged in
February.  Declines in the indexes for food, beverage, and
tobacco products; chemicals; and plastic and rubber products
were offset by gains elsewhere. Production in the non-NAICS
manufacturing industries (logging and publishing) was down 0.8
percent.  In February, mining output rose 0.8 percent, and capacity
utilization moved up 0.6 percentage point to 88.4 percent, a
rate 1.0 percentage point above its average for the period 1972
to 2010.  The gain in mining output largely reflected higher  crude oil  and natural gas extraction along with increased
support activity for mining.  The output of utilities dropped
4.5 percent, and the capacity utilization rate fell to 78.0
percent, a rate 8.5 percentage points below its average from
1972 to 2010.  Capacity utilization rates in February at industries
grouped by stage of process were as follows:  At the crude stage,
utilization increased 0.5 percentage point to 88.3 percent, a
rate 1.9 percentage points above its long-run (1972 to 2010)
average; at the primary and semifinished stages, utilization
fell 0.8 percentage point to 73.0 percent, a rate 8.4 percentage
points below its long-run average; and at the finished stage,
utilization rose 0.3 percentage point to 75.6 percent, a rate
1.8 percentage points below its long-run average. Revision of
Industrial Production and Capacity Utilization  The  Federal Reserve  Board plans to issue its annual
revision to the index of industrial production (IP) and the
related measures of capacity utilization on March 25, 2011, at
12:00 noon EDT.  The revised IP indexes will incorporate
detailed data from the 2009 Annual Survey of Manufactures,
conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau.  Data from selected
editions of the Census Bureau’s 2009 Current Industrial Reports
and annual data from the U.S. Geological Survey regarding
metallic and nonmetallic minerals (except fuels) for 2009 will
also be incorporated.  The update will include revisions to the
monthly indicator (either product data or input data) and to
seasonal factors for each industry.  In addition, the estimation
methods for some series may be changed.  Any modifications to
the methods for estimating the output of an industry will affect
the index from 1972 to the present.  Capacity and capacity utilization will be revised to
incorporate additional data from the Census Bureau’s Quarterly
Survey of Plant Capacity, which covers manufacturing, along with
new data on capacity from the  U.S. Geological Survey , the  Department of Energy , and other organizations.  Once the revision is published, it will be available on the
Board’s website at www.federalreserve.gov/releases/G17.  Further
information on the revision can be obtained from the Board’s
Industrial Output Section (telephone number 202-452-3197).
Explanatory Note  The Industrial Production and Capacity Utilization
statistical release, which is published around the middle of the
month, reports measures of output, capacity, and capacity
utilization in manufacturing, mining, and the electric and gas
utilities industries.  More detailed descriptions of industrial
production and capacity utilization are available on the Board’s
website at www.federalreserve.gov/releases/G17. In addition, the
website includes files containing data shown in the release,
more detailed series that are published in a monthly supplement
to the G.17, and historical data.  Instructions on searching for
and downloading specific series are provided as well.  Release Schedule  At 9:15 a.m. on  2011: January 14, February 16, March 17, April 15, May 17, June
15,
July 15, August 16, September 15, October 17, November 16, and
December 15. 