-- 
U.S. Says It’s Intensifying Radiation Checks of Japan Flights

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-03-17T19:26:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/u-s-says-it-s-intensifying-radiation-checks-of-japan-flights.html
U.S. authorities intensified
efforts to detect radiation on flights arriving from  Japan ,
which is struggling to repair a damaged nuclear reactor, and
have found no dangerous levels for passengers or cargo, the
 Customs and Border Protection  agency said today.  CPB officers received guidance on March 15 to pay special
attention to U.S.-bound Japanese planes as part of its policy of
checking all incoming flights for radiation, the agency said.  The agency said it is “is monitoring developments in Japan
carefully and is specifically assessing the potential for
radiological contamination” related to last week’s 9.0
earthquake in Japan and resulting tsunami.  CBP uses handheld and other types of detectors, resolving a
half million radiation alarms annually, the agency said.  U.S. regulators are considering whether to test Japanese
food imports for  radiation exposure  as water cannons helped cool
down one reactor at Japan’s Fukishima nuclear power plant, which
was damaged in the tsunami.  Gregory Jaczko, chairman of the  Nuclear Regulatory
Commission , said today that special inspections of U.S. nuclear
plants aren’t necessary, in response to urging from some
lawmakers for such a move.  “These domestic nuclear reactors must be fully evaluated
to ensure that they are as safe and resilient as possible,”
wrote Senators  Barbara Boxer  and Tom Carper in a letter today to
Jaczko.  Boxer, a California Democrat, is chairwoman of the Senate
 Environment and Public Works Committee , and Carper, a Delaware
Democrat, heads the panel’s  Clean Air and Nuclear Safety
Subcommittee .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  