-- 
U.S. Credit Swaps Fall as Japan Sees Progress at Nuclear Site

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-03-17T21:16:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/u-s-credit-swaps-fall-as-japan-sees-progress-at-nuclear-site.html
The cost to protect U.S. corporate
bonds from default fell from a three-month high as  Japan  made
progress toward restoring power at a nuclear plant.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, declined 2.3 basis points to a
mid-price of 89.4 basis points as of 5:03 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Pioneer
Natural Resources Co. (PXD)  and  Entergy Corp. (ETR)  led a surge in credit
swaps on energy- and nuclear-linked companies.  “We’re just trading the situations in Japan,” said  Mikhail Foux , a New York-based credit strategist at Citigroup
Inc. “Stock market is up, spreads are tighter. It’s effectively
back to the risk-on, risk-off trade.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 1.3 percent to
1,273.72. Engineers are working through the night in Japan to
connect a power cable that may help get the cooling system at
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukishima nuclear plant working
again. Group of Seven officials will meet tomorrow to discuss
the threat from the 9-magnitude earthquake in Japan, a gathering
that raises the prospect of coordinated action to prevent the
disaster from crippling the world’s third-largest economy.  The credit swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, climbed from
79.2 basis points on Feb. 8 to 91.7 yesterday, the highest since
Dec. 2.  Oil Rises  Oil climbed the most in three weeks on concern that unrest
in North Africa and the Middle East will spread, reducing
shipments from the region. Crude advanced 3.8 percent to $101.67
a barrel in New York.  Contracts protecting the debt of Irving, Texas-based
Pioneer Natural Resources climbed 18.5 basis points to 140.7,
and those on New Orleans-based Entergy, which has utility
customers from  Texas  to  Mississippi , added 11.2 basis points to
203.6, according to data provider CMA. Swaps on Houston-based  Parker Drilling Co. (PKD) , which provides offshore and onshore
contract drilling services, climbed 14 basis points to 327.3,
the data show.  Credit-default swaps on Raleigh, North Carolina-based  Progress Energy Inc. (PGN)  also climbed, adding 5.4 basis points to
50.7, as it led a list of 14 near-misses by U.S. nuclear plant
operators last year, according to a  report  today by the Union of
Concerned Scientists, a watchdog group.  The CDX index will roll to a new series on March 21,
followed by Markit’s CDX North America High Yield Index on March
28. New versions of the indexes are created every six months.
Companies are replaced if they no longer have appropriate credit
grades, are no longer among the most actively traded in the $25
trillion credit swaps market, or fail to meet other index
criteria.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  