-- 
U.S. Seasonal Drought Outlook for April to June 2011 (Text)

-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 
2011-03-17T12:44:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/u-s-seasonal-drought-outlook-for-april-to-june-2011-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 Seasonal Drought Outlook  as released by the National Weather
Service in  Camp Springs , Maryland:  Latest Seasonal Assessment - The seasonal drought outlook for
April-June 2011 is based in part on climate anomalies associated
with the final stages of La Nina, stream flows, soil moisture
conditions, observed precipitation anomalies, mountainous snow
water content, and the CPC monthly and seasonal temperature and
precipitation outlooks. Abundant precipitation in parts of the
mid-Atlantic region, the Ohio, Tennessee, and middle Mississippi
Valleys during the past month has erased most of the
drought/dryness in these areas, and resulted in substantial
stream and river flooding. Recent squall line activity has
brought significant rainfall to northern portions of the Gulf
Coast states. Drought and dryness are expected to persist and/or
intensify across the southern Atlantic region, southern portions
of the central Gulf Coast, the southern and south-central Great
Plains, and the Southwest, as late winter gives way to spring.
The spring season in particular is usually the driest time of
year for the Southwest, prior to the climatological onset of the
summer monsoon. Drought relief has occurred in  Hawaii  over the
last few months, which is typically the case during La Nina
winters with increased storm activity (Kona Lows). For April-
June, prospects for significant rainfall across western slopes
of the Islands diminish as the northeasterly trade winds once
again become established.  Recent heavy precipitation has reduced drought across portions
of the mid-Atlantic region. For the past 30 days, surplus
precipitation has been concentrated both near and west of the
Appalachians, with deficit precipitation east of the mountains,
from the tidewater area of southeastern  Virginia  to Florida.
These deficits were greatest (75-100 mm) in the Florida
Panhandle and adjacent parts of southern  Georgia . Most stream
flows in the Appalachians currently range between the 75th and
89th percentiles (which are categorized as above-normal when
compared to the corresponding historical distribution for the
day of the year). Much below normal stream flows (lowest ten
percent of historical distribution) are indicated by USGS stream
flow gauges across the Piedmont region of  North Carolina , most
of  South Carolina , and in north-central  Florida . The CPC 30-day
outlook for April calls for equal chances (EC) of below, near,
and above-normal temperatures across the middle and southern
Atlantic States, and for continued above-median precipitation
from near the spine of the Appalachians westward, and below-
median precipitation across Florida, Georgia, South Carolina,
and southern portions of North Carolina. The official CPC 90-day
temperature outlook depicts low probabilities for abnormal
warmth from Florida to the Virginia-North Carolina border, and
EC north across the mid-Atlantic region. The 90-day
precipitation outlook calls for EC over most of this region,
with the exception of the Florida peninsula where there are
slightly enhanced odds of deficit rainfall. Forecast confidence
for the southern Atlantic States is moderate to high; Forecast
confidence for the middle Atlantic States is low to moderate.  Across the Southeast, April-June La Nina precipitation
composites favor dryness in Florida and most of the  Gulf Coast 
region, with fairly high frequency. ENSO composites for April-
June are generally regarded as the final set of useable
composites for a particular ENSO season. The monthly temperature
outlook indicates equal chances (EC) of below, near, and above-
normal temperatures across the region, though the seasonal
temperature outlook calls for enhanced odds of abnormal warmth.
CPC’s monthly rainfall outlook indicates robust probabilities
for deficit rainfall across Florida and the central Gulf Coast
states, though probabilities diminish rapidly northward, with EC
anticipated over far northern portions of Mississippi,  Alabama 
and Georgia. For the AMJ season, modest chances of below-median
rainfall are indicated near the immediate Gulf Coast. Forecast
confidence for the immediate Gulf Coast States is high; Forecast
confidence for the remainder of the Southeast is moderate.  For about the past 6 weeks, the Arctic Oscillation (AO) and the
North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO) indices have been near zero or
positive. In association with this, above-normal precipitation
returned to the Tennessee and Ohio Valleys, easing prior drought
and even causing some flooding. The AO/NAO pattern is expected
to be less influential in the upcoming spring than it was during
the winter. Across the lower  Mississippi  Valley, conditions
range from abnormally dry (D0) to extreme drought (D3). The
hardest hit areas include western  Louisiana  and southwestern  Arkansas , where CPC’s calculated soil moisture anomalies in
February ranged from 120-140 mm below average. NLDAS soil
moisture anomalies in the top 1 meter of soil during the past
week are in line with the CPC anomalies. In the past week,
squall line activity has brought heavy rain (75-125 mm) to the
central Gulf Coast states, bringing significant relief to that
region, but unfortunately missing the areas in the lower
Mississippi Valley most severely impacted by drought. The 30-day
outlook for April 2011 calls for enhanced chances of above-
normal temperatures and below-normal precipitation across most
of the lower Mississippi Valley, and above-median precipitation
for the Ohio and Tennessee Valleys. For the April-June season,
the precipitation signal is much weaker, with equal chances
indicated for all but Louisiana and southern Mississippi, where
odds modestly favor below-normal rainfall. Forecast confidence
for the Ohio and Tennessee Valleys is high; Forecast confidence
for the lower Mississippi Valley is moderate to high.  In  Texas , drier and warmer weather since early February has led
to deteriorating conditions, with moderate (D1) or worse drought
now enveloping much of the state. Soil moisture is well below
average (120-160 mm) over eastern Texas, with less serious
deficits elsewhere across the state. The Constructed Analog Soil
Moisture Outlook (CAS) for the end of June 2011 anticipates
below average soil moisture across eastern portions of the
southern Plains. La Nina composites for AMJ, climatology, and
CPC’s monthly and seasonal outlooks, all favor the persistence
and intensification of drought for most of Texas, though limited
relief is expected over far northern areas near the Red River
Valley. Forecast confidence for Texas is high.  During the past 3 months, observed precipitation was near-normal
across a large portion of the south-central and central Great
Plains. The exceptions included central  Kansas  and especially  Oklahoma , where the latter reported as much as 90-150 mm
deficits in southern and eastern portions of the state. Recent
(February 2011) calculated soil moisture anomalies in eastern
Oklahoma reveal deficits of 100-120 mm. The unusually large
number of wildfires still in progress over eastern Oklahoma can
be attributed (at least in part) to these factors, and the
recent period of strong, gusty winds. Stream flows in the
southeastern quarter of the state are generally running in the
lowest quartile, when compared to historical stream flow for the
day of the year. The drought/dryness over the south-central and
central Great Plains is unlikely to expand northward into the
Dakotas, given very high (above the 90th percentile) soil
moisture values and deep snow cover in that area. The CPC 30-day
temperature outlook depicts elevated odds of above-normal
temperatures over  Colorado , Oklahoma and much of Kansas, while
the 90-day outlook keeps abnormal warmth only over Colorado. For
precipitation, the south-central and central Great Plains are
expected to receive subnormal precipitation during April, though
this deficit area is trimmed westward to include only the High
Plains for the AMJ seasonal outlook. Forecast confidence for the
south-central and central Plains is moderate to high.  During the past 90-days, drier than normal conditions have
affected much of  Arizona  and  New Mexico , with southern portions
of these states experiencing deficits between 30-90 mm.
Precipitation deficits and depleted soil moisture are typical of
La Nina winters due to the northward displacement of the jet
stream and associated storm track. The March 13th SNOTEL report
indicates basin-averaged snow water content (SWC) ranges between
25-50 percent of average over the southern half of both Arizona
and New Mexico, though SWC values are considerably closer to
average in far northern New Mexico. Drought degradation is most
noticeable in central New Mexico, and this is consistent with
AMJ La Nina precipitation composites. Decreasing precipitation
climatologies for areas already in drought strongly support
CPC’s April and AMJ 2011 outlooks which call for enhanced
chances of above-normal temperatures and below-median
precipitation across New Mexico, Arizona, southeastern  Utah , and
southwestern Colorado. Forecast confidence for the Southwest is
high.  Heavy rainfall this winter has alleviated drought and dryness on
Kauai and Oahu and diminished drought conditions across most of
the rest of the central and western Hawaiian Islands which is
typical for a La Nina winter. For the April-June forecast period,
it is becoming less likely that the western sides of the Islands
will see substantial improvement as trade winds become more
dominant heading toward the warm season. Forecast confidence for
Hawaii is moderate.  SOURCE:  National Weather Service   To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  