-- 
NRC Chief Says U.S. Will Do ‘Systematic Review’ of Policies

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-03-17T19:07:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/u-s-will-conduct-systematic-review-of-reactor-policies-nrc-chief-says.html
The head of the  Nuclear Regulatory
Commission  said there is no immediate need for special
inspections of U.S. nuclear plants in the wake of the breakdown
in a group of reactors in  Japan  following an earthquake and
tsunami.  Gregory Jaczko said U.S. policy is to continually review
plant safety and standards, taking into account incidents and
accidents elsewhere in the world.  “We’re going to take a look at what happened,” he said at
a White House briefing. “We’re going to do a systematic and
methodical review of the information, and if we need to make
changes to our program, we’ll make changes.”  He also said there is no danger of radiation contamination
on U.S. territory from the damaged Japanese nuclear power
facility.  The U.S. has about 23 reactors with similar containment
designs as the Japanese plant at the center of the crisis.
Democratic Senators  Barbara Boxer  of  California  and Tom Carper
of  Delaware  today asked the NRC to conduct a “comprehensive
investigation” of all nuclear power facilities in the U.S. to
assess whether they can withstand a catastrophic disaster,
according to a letter to Jaczko released by Carper’s office.  Assessing Information  Jaczko said it is too early to begin an assessment of U.S.
nuclear plants because it isn’t yet known what “the most
relevant information is” about the accident in Japan.  U.S. reactors and containment facilities have been
upgraded since their construction to “deal with these types of
very severe scenarios,” he said. Once all the data is in, “We
intend to take a very thorough look at what happened and what
changes we could make.”  Japanese authorities are trying to cool quake-damaged
nuclear reactors at a  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. plant 135 miles
(220 kilometers) north of Tokyo following the March 11
earthquake, the country’s worst on record.  Helicopters and water cannons were enlisted to contain
radioactive pollution from the plants after water pumps were
knocked out by the quake and subsequent tsunami.  Jaczko said the situation “will take some time, possibly
weeks” to resolve. “There clearly appears to be a challenge
keeping that spent fuel filled with sufficient water.”  Industry Crisis  The crisis is the nuclear industry’s worst catastrophe
since Chernobyl, and the U.S., U.K.,  France ,  Germany  and  Australia  have advised their citizens to consider leaving Tokyo.
Based on the NRC’s assessments, the U.S. recommended its
citizens evacuate an area within a 50-mile (80-kilometer) radius
of the crippled plants, wider than the 12-mile (20-kilometer)
exclusion zone imposed by Japanese authorities.  Jaczko downplayed fears that radiation from the nuclear
plant could spread to the U.S.  “We don’t see any concern from radiation levels that could
be harmful here,” he said. “Basic physics and basic science
tells us there really can’t be any risk or any harm to anyone in
the  United States .”  Officials from the Group of Seven nations are planning to
discuss the threat to the world’s third-largest economy posed by
the quake and worsening nuclear crisis. The discussions raise
the prospect of coordinated G-7 action to bolster Japan.  Stocks snapped a six-day losing streak in  Europe , amid
speculation the Japanese nuclear crisis will be contained. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.6 percent to 1,276.50, and
the yen touched a post-World War II record against the dollar.  President  Barack Obama  will make a statement on the
situation in Japan at 3:30 p.m. Washington time today. He
stopped earlier at the Japanese embassy in Washington to sign a
condolence book.  “We are doing everything we can to stand by our great
friend and ally Japan in this hour of need,” he said.  Obama spoke by phone with Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
last night to discuss the status of relief efforts and to
receive information on how Japan is working to contain the
nuclear emergency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in  Washington  at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  