-- 
U.S. February Leading Economic Indicators (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-03-17T14:15:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/u-s-february-leading-economic-indicators-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
leading economic indicators from the Conference Board.  The Conference Board Leading Economic Index (LEI) for the
U.S. increased 0.8 percent in February to 113.4 (2004 = 100),
following a 0.1 percent increase in January, and a 1.0 percent
increase in December.  Says Ataman Ozyildirim, economist at The Conference Board:
“With February’s large gain, the U.S. LEI returned to the
strengthening upward trend that began last September. The LEI is
pointing to an economic expansion that should gain more momentum
in the coming months. In February, improvements in labor markets,
financial components, and consumer expectations more than offset
falling housing permits.”  Says  Ken Goldstein , economist at The Conference Board:
“Latest data point to an improving economy, one that will
continue to gain strength through the summer. The economy
continues to encounter strong headwinds. One headwind is the
sharp rise in food and energy prices. Still, the way inflation
will move is unclear, given the degree of slack in the overall
economy, and especially in the labor market.”  The Conference Board Coincident Economic Index (CEI) for
the U.S. increased 0.2 percent in February to 102.5 (2004 = 100),
following a 0.3 percent increase in January, and a 0.3 percent
increase in December. The Conference Board Lagging Economic
Index (LAG) increased 0.2 percent in February to 108.0 (2004 =
100), following a 0.3 percent decline in January, and a 0.2
percent increase in December.  With February’s increase, the U.S. LEI is about 16.0
percent above its most recent trough in March 2009, and remains
at an all-time historical high. However, the U.S. CEI, a measure
of current economic conditions, is only about 3.0 percent above
its most recent trough in June 2009, when the recession ended.  About The Conference Board Leading Economic Index (LEI) for the
U.S.  The composite economic indexes are the key elements in an
analytic system designed to signal peaks and troughs in the
business cycle. The leading, coincident, and lagging economic
indexes are essentially composite averages of several individual
leading, coincident, or lagging indicators. They are constructed
to summarize and reveal common turning point patterns in
economic data in a clearer and more convincing manner than any
individual component - primarily because they smooth out some of
the volatility of individual components.  The ten components of The Conference Board Leading Economic
Index for the U.S. include:  Average weekly hours, manufacturing  Average weekly initial claims for  unemployment insurance   Manufacturers’ new orders,  consumer goods  and materials  Index of supplier deliveries - vendor performance  Manufacturers’ new orders, nondefense capital goods  Building permits, new private housing units  Stock prices, 500 common stocks  Money supply, M2  Interest rate spread, 10-year Treasury bonds less federal
funds  Index of consumer expectations  The next release is scheduled for Thursday, April 21, 2011 at 10
A.M. ET.  SOURCE: The Conference Board 