-- 
Lufthansa CEO ‘Shocked’ by Japan Nuclear Emergency as BA Crews Leave Tokyo

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-03-17T16:20:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/lufthansa-ceo-shocked-by-japan-nuclear-emergency-as-ba-crews-leave-tokyo.html
  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  said today
that the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis in  Japan  have
left the airline industry in shock, as British Airways became
the latest carrier to pull crews out of  Tokyo  and  Cathay Pacific
Airways Ltd. (293)  reported plummeting travel to the country.  “The natural disaster in Japan has left us all in deep
shock,” Lufthansa Chief Executive Officer Christoph Franz said
in a speech in  Frankfurt , its main hub. “We are extremely
worried about the situation and the magnitude of the tragedy.”  Lufthansa was the first major carrier to reroute flights
away from Tokyo amid fears of radioactive fallout from nuclear
plants damaged following last week’s earthquake. The carrier
will divert services south to  Osaka  and Nagoya through the
weekend at least, Franz said. Italy’s Alitalia SpA reiterated
that it’s also flying to Osaka to avoid the Japanese capital.  Hong Kong-based Cathay, Asia’s third-biggest airline, said
in an e-mail that trips to Japan are showing declining levels of
seat occupancy, while travel in the opposite direction is
“persistently high.”  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the
world’s biggest airline, said yesterday it has seen a
“measurable decline” in demand for trips from the U.S. to Japan.  Cathay, Korean Air Lines Co., China Southern Airlines Co.,  Asiana Airlines (020560)  Inc. all say they’ll boost capacity from Tokyo
as Japan pares power usage and tackles radiation leaking from
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant 135 miles to the north. Japan
Airlines Corp. and All Nippon Airways Co., the nation’s two
biggest carriers, declined to comment on demand for flights.  ‘Adjust Supply’  Airlines may begin cutting capacity to Japan if diminishing
demand suggests a structural change, said  Chris Logan , an
analyst at Echelon Research & Advisory in London.  “If Japanese inbound traffic is affected more than just
short term, airlines can adjust supply to mitigate any profit
impact,” Logan said.  British Airways said today that it will swap crews in  Hong
Kong , joining other European carriers in taking steps to avoid
having staff spend the night in Tokyo as the nuclear alert
intensifies. While the U.K. company will continue to serve the
city, customers traveling up to March 21 can cancel and claim a
full refund, and tickets through April 10 can be rebooked for a
later date for free, spokesman Tony Cane said in e-mail.  A380 Delay    Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  also joined the ranks of operators
adding stops on Japan services to avoid having crews overnight
in Tokyo, with staff changing in Osaka, and said it will delay
introducing the Airbus SAS A380 superjumbo on its Los Angeles
route, which has a stop-off in Tokyo, until further notice.    Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  budget unit Jetstar also added a halt
in Osaka, while Air France is continuing to route its twice-
daily Tokyo service via Seoul, spokeswoman Brigitte Barrand
said. Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd., which competes with British
Airways at London Heathrow, is still basing crews in Tokyo,
though the situation is under “constant review,” according to
spokesman Greg Dawson.  “Airlines are all taking a slightly varying approach,”
said  John Strickland , an aviation analyst at JLS Consulting Ltd.
in  London . “It’s operationally difficult to add another stop,
but it’s better than not being able to operate at all.”  ‘Perfect Alignment’  Lufthansa Chief Financial Officer Stephan Gemkow said the
situation regarding Japanese flights is “very complex,” but
that the decision to hub via Seoul to southern Japanese cities
is in line with emerging demand patterns.  “Those are the cities where most of the foreign companies
and also embassies have relocated in the current process,” he
said. “So far we are in perfect alignment with the German
foreign ministry. This morning we got explicit confirmation that
they really praise and applaud us for our decision.”  Lufthansa’s planned alliance with All Nippon, which would
seek to boost market share by coordinating sales strategies and
capacity, may fall victim to the disruption, CEO Franz said.  “Preparations were going according to plan and approval of
the competition authorities in Japan was expected around mid-
year,” he said. “This might change due to current developments.”    Finnair Oyj (FIA1S) , the European carrier most exposed to the
Japanese market, according to analysts at Citigroup Inc., said
flights are “quite full” in both directions, with Tokyo
operating via Nagoya to incorporate a staff changeover.  ‘Traveling Home’  “We have a lot of Japanese customers traveling home from  Europe , and from Japan we have both passengers from Europe and
Japanese passengers as it’s their holiday season there,” said
Maria Mroue, a spokeswoman for Finland’s largest airline.  Stockholm-based SAS Group, the Nordic region’s biggest
carrier, is also carrying many returning Japanese on trips
routed via Beijing, spokeswoman Elisabeth Manzi said by phone.  “To Scandinavia from Japan we’ve had quite full flights
with just some seats left,” she said.  Services operated by  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines are also
“pretty much full in both directions,” International Vice
President Kurt Stache said in an interview in Helsinki.  “As long as there’s demand we will continue to fly, as
long as it’s a safe environment to fly into,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  