-- 
TUI May Push Back Hapag-Lloyd IPO Amid Equity Market Turmoil

-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-03-17T10:51:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/tui-may-push-back-hapag-lloyd-ipo-amid-equity-market-turmoil.html
  TUI AG (TUI1) ,  Europe ’s biggest tour
operator, may push back an initial public offering of its stake
in container line Hapag-Lloyd because of the turmoil in global
equity markets, three people familiar with the matter said.  The IPO may not take place before April 22, though no
decision has been made, the people said. The sale was scheduled
to happen by April 15 and set to raise 1 billion euros ($1.4
billion) to 1.5 billion euros, two other people familiar with
the matter said this month. That could value the business at
2.8 billion euros to 3.5 billion euros, they said.  Lagardere SCA yesterday said it would delay the initial
public offering of its Canal Plus France stake. Stocks fell
across  Asia  today after two nuclear regulators overseas said
fuel rods at  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant may be
exposed and could be leaking radiation. Fallout from the nuclear
crisis, which followed weeks of unrest in the Middle East, may
jeopardize a global recovery in IPOs that started in 2010 after
the worst two years for new stock sales since 2003.  TUI is selling an 11.33 percent stake of its 49.8 percent
holding in Hapag to Albert Ballin GmbH for 315 million euros
($441 million), the company said March 3. TUI also said it may
sell more of its stake through an initial public offering
without giving a deadline for the deal. The Hanover-based
company aims to focus on tourism after divesting the container
business.  Returning to Profit  Hapag-Lloyd spokesman Klaus Heims didn’t immediately return
a call seeking comment. A TUI spokesman declined to comment on
the timing of the transaction.  Hapag-Lloyd returned to profit last year as a rebound in
global trade enabled it to raise container-carrying rates. The
shipping line has returned to a “position of strength,”
Chairman Michael Behrendt said in December.  An IPO would still be subject to the approval of Ballin
shareholders. Albert Ballin, a Hamburg-based investment group
that includes German billionaire Klaus Michael Kuehne, M.M.
Warburg & Co., HSH Nordbank AG and Hamburg’s state government,
bought a majority stake in Hapag-Lloyd in 2009. TUI, which
controls U.K. tour operator  TUI Travel Plc (TT/) , has said it wants to
invest proceeds from the IPO into its tourism business.  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Holger Elfes} in Hamburg at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net 
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net .
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net  