-- 
UN Human Rights Chief Says Bahraini Security Actions Are Illegal

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 
2011-03-17T10:12:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/un-human-rights-chief-says-bahraini-security-actions-are-illegal.html
Arrests and beatings of protesters
and medical personnel by security forces in Bahrain are a
“blatant violation of international law” that must stop
immediately, said United Nations human rights chief Navi Pillay.  “My office has been receiving desperate calls and e-mails
from numerous individuals in Bahrain, terrified about the armed
forces’ intentions,” she said today in an e-mailed  statement 
from Geneva. “There are reports of arbitrary arrests, killings,
beatings of protesters and of medical personnel, and of the
takeover of hospitals and medical centers by various security
forces.”  Pillay said Bahraini police, defense forces and troops from
the Gulf Cooperation Council’s Peninsula Shield Force are
responsible for the “shocking and illegal conduct.” She called
on them to “immediately leave health-care facilities and cease
their harassment and intimidation of health professionals.”  Bahrain has been trying to end more than a month of unrest
led by majority Shiites that has left about a dozen people dead
and parts of the capital, Manama, paralyzed. The government
declared a three-month state of emergency on March 15 after
troops from  Saudi Arabia  and other Gulf states arrived to
support the administration.  King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa has offered a national
dialogue and Crown Prince Salman has said he’s committed to
talks. Opposition groups have dismissed the offers.  Bahrain is a logistical hub and command center for U.S.
naval operations in  Iraq ,  Afghanistan  and the Indian Ocean. It
is home to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet, which protects oil-
supply lines that pass through the  Persian Gulf  and the Strait
of Hormuz.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 