-- 
UN Security Council Authorizes Military Action Against Qaddafi

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-03-18T03:09:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/un-security-council-approves-military-action-against-qaddafi-no-fly-zone.html
The  United Nations  Security Council
voted to ground Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s air force and to
grant military authority to the U.S. and its allies to protect
civilians and population centers threatened by his forces.  The UN’s principal policy-making panel yesterday voted 10-0,
with five abstentions, to adopt a resolution that establishes a
no-fly zone over Libya, demands a cease-fire and allows “all
necessary measures” to protect civilians “excluding a foreign
occupation force of any form on any part of Libyan territory.”    Brazil , China,  Germany ,  India  and  Russia  abstained.  “We have very little time left,” French Foreign Minister
Alain Juppe told the Security Council before the vote. “Every
day, every hour, we see the closing of the clamp on the
civilians and the population of Benghazi. We should not arrive
too late.”  Earlier yesterday, Libyan jets dropped bombs on the
outskirts of Benghazi, and Qaddafi went on state television to
say his forces would move within hours against the coastal city,
the rebel stronghold. It is  Libya ’s second-largest city, with a
population of about 1 million.  The fighting in Libya has left hundreds dead and cut
production in the nation with  Africa ’s largest oil reserves.  Obama, Cameron, Sarkozy  After the vote, U.S. President  Barack Obama  called U.K.
Prime Minister David Cameron and French President Nicolas Sarkozy to begin coordinating their governments’ next steps. The
three leaders said they would work with Arab and other
international partners on enforcing the terms of the resolution,
the White House said in a statement. They also agreed that
violence against civilians in Libya must stop, the White House
said.  On Capitol Hill, U.S. Senators  John McCain , Republican of  Arizona ;  John Kerry , Democrat of  Massachusetts ; and  Joe Lieberman , a Connecticut independent, released a joint statement
calling for action “before it is too late.”  “This was an important step on behalf of the people of
Libya, but it will only be as effective as its implementation,”
they said.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , speaking to reporters
yesterday during a visit to Tunisia, said options being
considered against Qaddafi’s forces include using drones and
arming rebel forces.  “It is important to recognize that military experts across
the world know that a no-fly zone requires certain actions to be
taken to protect the planes and the pilots, including bombing
targets like the air defense systems,” Clinton said.  Arab Participation  Libya’s deputy ambassador to the UN,  Ibrahim Dabbashi , said
that five Arab nations have agreed to contribute to the no-fly
zone. Diplomats said that group would include Jordan, Qatar,  Saudi Arabia  and the United Arab Emirates.  “It is a clear message to the Libyan people that they are
not alone,” said Dabbashi, who has broken with the Qaddafi
regime. “It is also a clear message to Colonel Qaddafi and
those who support him that there is no place for dictatorship,
there is no place for killing the people.”  The resolution was amended March 16 at U.S. urging to
strengthen the authority for international military intervention
to halt attacks by air, land and sea forces loyal to Qaddafi.
The U.S. had been reticent to implement a no-fly zone, strongly
advocated by  France  and the U.K., out of concern over its
potential effectiveness and the possibility of being drawn into
the conflict.  ‘Powerful Response’  “Colonel Qaddafi and those who still stand by him continue
to grossly and systematically abuse the most fundamental human
rights of Libya’s people,” U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice said.
“On March 12, the League of Arab States called on the  Security
Council  to establish a no-fly zone and take other measures to
protect civilians. Yesterday’s resolution is a powerful response
to that call and the urgent needs on the ground.”  “We are talking very serious escalation,” David Hartwell,
Middle East analyst for the London-based IHS Global Insight, a
political and economic forecaster, said in an interview. “If
Qaddafi’s forces are moving as quickly as he says, which there
is reason to doubt, the U.S., NATO and a few others will have to
start acting in the next 48 hours.”  The measure calls on nations to intercept ships or planes
suspected of carrying arms or mercenaries to Libya and freezes
the foreign assets of seven government officials and five
entities. The list includes the Central Bank of Libya, Libyan
National Oil Corp., the nation’s defense minister and three of
Qaddafi’s sons.  Chinese, Russian Concerns  Chinese and Russian envoys said they were concerned that
the resolution could lead to a wider war and that questions
about implementation of the no-fly zone weren’t answered to
their satisfaction.    China  is always against the use of force in international
relations,” said Chinese Ambassador Li Baodong. Russian envoy
Vitaly Churkin said his government abstained because the
resolution has the “potential of opening the door to large-
scale military intervention.” He also said important questions
about the no-fly zone weren’t answered, including who would
enforce it and what the rules of engagement would be.  The outcome of the conflict is “still in doubt,”  Mohammed
El-Katiri , an analyst with the New York-based risk consultant
 Eurasia Group , said in an interview. “We might see a
counterproductive measure, with people coming to the side of
Qaddafi against foreign intervention. And it is very difficult
to predict how Qaddafi will deal with this.”  Oil Exports Halted  Libya’s oil output slumped to a “trickle” by last week,
according to the  International Energy Agency . The conflict,
which has left hundreds dead, has helped push up Brent crude
prices by about 20 percent this year. Libya’s crude exports may
be halted for “many months” because of damage to oil
facilities and international sanctions, the IEA said this week.  Clinton, at the town hall session in  Tunisia , said the U.S.
wants to make clear that any military action has international
support, including from Arab nations.  “We don’t want to get into the position where people
question why we do what we do” Clinton said. “When we act, we
want to act with international partners, we want very much to
have Arab leadership and participation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner in New York at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  