-- 
Chelsea May Bid $49 Million for Real Madrid’s Ramos, Mirror Says: Roundup

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-03-18T12:04:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/united-s-ferguson-spitting-mad-about-ban-sun-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.    Sergio Ramos  Bid  Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich is considering spending 35
million euros ($49 million) to sign Real Madrid defender Sergio
Ramos,  the Mirror said .  The Russian billionaire may struggle to get the right-back
to leave Madrid, where he’s vowed to end his career, the
newspaper said. Chelsea wants Ramos to replace Jose Bosingwa,
the Mirror said.  ‘Unethical’ Wages  Juventus sporting director Giuseppe Marotta criticized
Chelsea for offering to pay Brazilian teenager Lucas Piazon
870,000 pounds ($1.4 million) a year,  the Daily Mail said .  The 17-year-old may move to  London  from Brazil after his
birthday next January in an agreement worth as much as 8 million
pounds, the newspaper said.  The Italian club looked to be the frontrunner in
negotiations for the player but Marotta said it is “actually
proud” of not signing him because it would have be
“unethical” to pay so much, the Mail reported.  Balotelli Blues    Manchester City  forward Mario Balotelli, dismissed in last
night’s home game against  Dynamo Kiev , confronted visiting fans
on his way home,  the Daily Mail said.   The Italian got out of his car and had a confrontation with
supporters, the newspaper said.  Villa Spat  Aston Villa defenders Richard Dunne and James Collins were
fined two weeks’ wages after a “fracas” during a team-bonding
exercise at a health spa,  the Guardian said .  An argument occurred after manager  Gerard Houllier  left,
the newspaper said, adding the players’ union prevented Villa
fining the pair more than a combined 200,000 pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  