-- 
Universal Florida Parks May Cost NBC $1.55 Billion, Analysts Say

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-03-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/universal-florida-parks-may-cost-nbc-universal-1-6-billion-analysts-say.html
  NBC Universal , controlled by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , may need to pay as much as $1.55 billion to buy
the 50 percent stake in two Universal Studios Florida theme
parks that partner  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  is seeking to sell.  Analysts value the property at $2.3 billion to $3.1
billion, including the separate, gated parks, Universal Studios
Florida and Universal’s Islands of Adventure, and the CityWalk
dining, retail and entertainment area.  “Theme parks are very capital intensive and there aren’t
that many buyers out there for them,” said Tuna Amobi, an
analyst for  Standard & Poor’s  in  New York .  Amobi values the Universal  Orlando  complex at $2.3 billion
to $2.5 billion, or 6 to 6.5 times Ebitda, earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. That’s the same
metric he applies to parks owned by the  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , which
has four gated attractions in Orlando.  Private-equity buyers might step up, Amobi said, mostly
because there’s “the lack of a deep field of potential
strategic buyers” beyond NBC Universal. Media companies such as  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA)  and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner
Bros. prefer higher-margin character licensing, he said.  Warner Bros., for example, granted Universal a license for
“The Wizarding World of Harry Potter” attractions, and
DreamWorks Animation licenses “Shrek” for a “4-D”
attraction. Marvel Entertainment, which Disney acquired in 2009,
licenses Spider-Man, Hulk and other characters for rides.  Deadline Looms  Blackstone gave NBC Universal until June 12 to buy its
stake, according to a March 14 regulatory filing by Universal
City Development Partners Ltd., the joint venture that owns the
properties. Christine Anderson, a Blackstone spokeswoman,
declined to comment.  Otherwise, the New York-based private-equity company will
have another 270 days to sell the entire Orlando operation to a
third party for at least 90 percent of what it’s seeking from
its partner.  “We are studying the proposal and considering our
options,” Cindy Gardner, a spokeswoman for New York-based NBC
Universal, said in a statement.  Paul McGuire, a Warner Bros. spokesman, and  Zenia Mucha  of
Disney had no immediate comment. DreamWorks Animation didn’t
respond to an e-mailed request for comment.    Universal Studios  in Orlando generated Ebitda of $391
million in 2010, according to the filing. It has $1.5 billion in
debt and $259 million in cash.  The parks’ use of brand names and popular characters may be
at risk if the company is sold.  If a buyer other than NBC Universal acquires Blackstone’s
stake, “it could impact our continued use of the ‘Universal’
name and certain intellectual property” within 30 months after
a change in control, according to the filing.  ‘Certain Tests’  The agreement with Warner Bros. may terminate if the park
isn’t 50-percent owned by one of the partners or if the new
owner doesn’t meet “certain financial and reputation tests,”
according to the filing.  Under certain conditions, a change of control would allow
NBC Universal to withhold new characters from the park.    Craig Moffett , an analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in
New York, values the theme parks, including one in Los Angeles,
at 8 times Ebitda, based on projected 3 percent to 4 percent
growth in 2011 and 2012. The makes the Florida theme parks worth
$3.1 billion and Blackstone’s stake $1.55 billion.  Philadelphia-based Comcast, the largest U.S. cable TV
provider, gained majority control of NBC Universal in January
from  General Electric Co. (GE)  by paying $6.5 billion in cash and
contributing $7.25 billion in assets to a joint venture that
owns the media company.  It isn’t clear Comcast wants the other half of the Florida
properties, Amobi said.  “I’ve attended Comcast’s presentations and they haven’t
ever made the case that the theme parks are central to their
content vision for the company,” Amobi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ronald Grover in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  