-- 
US Bancorp Sued Over Mortgage-Backed Securities Losses

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-03-17T19:50:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/us-bancorp-is-sued-over-47-million-in-mortgage-backed-securities-losses.html
  US Bancorp (USB) , the fifth-biggest U.S.
commercial bank by deposits, was sued by an insurer over $47
million in losses tied to investments in mortgage-backed
securities.  Woodmen of the World, an Omaha, Nebraska-based insurer,
contends a trust overseen by US Bancorp improperly invested in
asset-backed commercial paper and mortgage-backed securities,
which plummeted in value during the 2008 economic crisis,
according to a lawsuit filed in Delaware Chancery Court.  “The tale of wrongdoing in this action is as simple and
old-fashioned as a frontier stagecoach heist,” the insurer said
in the 42-page complaint filed March 15. “Once these
investments turned bad, defendants took steps to protect
themselves” at the insurer’s expense, the suit contends.  Banks and investment firms, such as  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) , are facing a wave of suits over mortgage-
backed securities in the aftermath of the U.S. housing market’s
decline. Investors allege they bought hundreds of millions of
dollars’ worth of the securities because they were marketed as
conservative, low-risk investments.  As home values fell and an increasing number of borrowers
defaulted on their mortgages, securities based on thousands of
home loans became hard to sell. Investors, who allege they were
duped into buying the securities, are seeking to recoup damages
over their losses.    U.S. Bank  believes strongly that it acted properly in the
management of that portfolio and performed its services in
accordance with our prescribed duties,” Steve Dale, a spokesman
for the bank, said in an e-mailed statement.  Information ‘Withheld’  US Bancorp, based in  Minneapolis , expanded during the
credit crisis with government-assisted purchases of failed banks
and thrifts. The bank posted a 62 percent increase in fourth-
quarter profit, officials said in January.  Woodmen of the World officials allege that a US Bancorp-
controlled trust, based in Delaware, failed to act in the best
interests of investors when its mortgage-backed investments
turned sour.  Trustees, who are also named as defendants in the suit,
failed to alert the insurer that it had invested in “commercial
paper backed by subprime and Alt-A mortgage-backed securities,”
Woodmen of the World said in the suit.  “USB and the trustees withheld that information from
Woodmen until mid-2008, well after the point at which the
Woodmen could have liquidated” its investment portfolio, the
suit said. The insurer “is now stuck in an illiquid,
unredeemable trust which is not expected to terminate for as
many as 30 years.”  The insurer wants a  Delaware  judge to find that US Bancorp
and trust officials violated legal duties owed to investors and
should be held responsible for damages. The bank is facing
similar claims by the Woodmen of the World in federal court in
Omaha.  The Delaware case is Woodmen of the World Life Insurance
Society v. US Bancorp, 6260-CC, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 