-- 
Vale Iron Ore Sales to Japan Unaffected by Quake, Sales Director Zhu Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-17T19:53:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/vale-iron-ore-sales-to-japan-unaffected-by-quake-zhu-says.html
  Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s largest iron-
ore producer, said shipments to Japan haven’t been affected by
the recent earthquake and that clients are still honoring
contracts.  Vale is willing to “help” Japanese customers that are
facing “difficulties,” Michael Zhu, Vale’s global bulk
material sales director, also said today at an  iron ore 
conference in the southwestern Chinese city of Kunming.  Japanese manufacturers including Sony Corp. and Sumitomo
Metal Industries Ltd. suspended some production after the 9-
magnitude temblor struck on March 11, unleashing a tsunami that
engulfed towns on the northern coast. The earthquake will hurt
the global iron ore market as the shutdown of  steel mills  may
cut output, Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. President Ma Guoqiang said.  Sumitomo Metal,  Japan ’s third-largest producer, said it
won’t resume operations at its Kashima plant near  Tokyo , which
produces half of its output, “for a while.” Still, Sumitomo, a
Vale customer, hasn’t declared force majeure, a legal clause
that allows companies to halt contracts because of circumstances
beyond their control, Zhu said.  Japan’s biggest steelmakers, Nippon Steel Corp. and JFE
Inc., have restarted blast furnaces near Tokyo after a halt
triggered by the earthquake.  31 Million Tons  Vale sells about 31 million metric tons of iron ore a year
to Japan, or about 10.5 percent of total output, the company
said today. Japan’s demand for ore is about 100 million tons a
year, Zhu said, adding that Vale can’t currently meet demand
from its global clients.  The Rio de Janeiro-based company also said in a statement
today that its nickel refinery in Matsuzaka, southern Japan,
also continues to operate “normally.” Vale has offered its
Japanese customers “flexibility” in administering their
shipment programs, enabling increases or decreases in volumes
and changes in quality and product types, it said.  “The impact on Japanese steelmakers has been limited,
despite the magnitude of the natural events, and most of them
have resumed operations,” Vale said.  Vale gained 1.24 centavos, or 2.7 percent, to 45.94 reais
in Sao Paulo trading at 3:13 p.m. New York time, after earlier
gaining as much as 2.8 percent, the most since Jan. 3.  Price Fall  The halt in Japanese activity could curb demand and drive
down iron ore prices, Luo Bingsheng, a special adviser to the  China  Iron and Steel Association, said at the conference in
Kunming today.  The price of 62 percent iron ore arriving at China’s
Tianjin port hit $191.90 a ton on Feb. 16, according to the
Steel Index, reaching the highest level since data became
available in November 2008. It traded at $163.60 yesterday, down
from $166.30 on Friday.  The impact of the quake on iron ore could be “more
psychological,” Hu Muzhong, managing director and co-founder of
Hong Kong-based trader Central Minerals Co. and Central Shipping
Co., said March 14. Chinese steelmakers, which are depleting
their inventories, may restart purchases in mid-April when the
stockpiles will have fallen by about half, he said.  --Helen Yuan and Juan Pablo Spinetto. Editors: Alan Soughley,
Dale Crofts, Jessica Brice  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net 
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  