-- 
Vietnam Targets $21 Billion Port-Enlargement Investment: Freight Markets

-- B y   S u n i l   J a g t i a n i
-- 
2011-03-17T20:54:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/vietnam-bets-21-billion-on-ports-to-beat-china-freight-markets.html
  Vietnam  is pouring billions of
dollars into building ports for the world’s largest container
ships in a drive to draw export industries from China.  The investment may propel the port complex near Ho Chi Minh
City into the ranks of the world’s top 15 ports within a decade,
said Malcolm Gregory, chief commercial officer at the $270
million  Cai Mep International Terminal Co.  His optimism
underlines the former Saigon’s transformation less than four
decades after being overrun by Communist forces.  Companies from  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  to  Intel Corp. (INTC)  are shifting
production to Vietnam, lured by cheaper labor compared with
China and deeper ports for container vessels sailing directly to
the U.S.,  Europe  and  Asia . The government aims to boost shipping
volume more than 400 percent this decade in the quest for
economic growth. Exports make up about 75 percent of Vietnam’s
gross domestic product.  “Vietnam is so heavily dependent on external demand that
getting the entire system to work, not just ports, but roads and
railways too, and making customs work faster, is a big part of
the story,” said Jonathan Pincus, the dean of the Harvard
Kennedy School’s Fulbright Economics Teaching Program in Ho Chi
Minh City.  Port manager Vietnam Container Shipping Joint-Stock Co. is
among stocks worth buying, says Cha Kyung Jin, the Seoul-based
head of investment at Golden Bridge Asset Management Co. He
pointed to the untapped potential in a nation that last year
exported less than half as much as  Thailand , whose population is
about a quarter smaller.  Investment Opportunities  “We want to increase our investment in Vietnamese
companies, including Vietnam Container Shipping,” he said.
“Their port industry offers a lot of potential as their
international trade is growing.”  Shares in the Vietnamese company, based in Haiphong, east
of Hanoi, have risen 1.6 percent this year. Another shipping
enterprise, General Forwarding & Agency Joint-Stock Co., is a
“good buy” after sliding since 2009, said Ho Chi Minh City-
based Nguyen Hoai Nam, an analyst at Kim Eng Vietnam Securities.  General Forwarding, also based in the commercial capital
and known as Gemadept, is down 14.2 percent this year, more than
the 5 percent decline in the  Ho Chi Minh City  Stock Exchange’s
VN Index.  “You’ve got all these wonderful exports, but you can’t get
them to the market,” said David Creighton, chief executive
officer of Cordiant Capital Inc. in  Montreal . It invested $27
million in the  Cai Lan International Container Terminal, LLC  in
the northern province of Quang Ninh.  Devaluation Buffer  “The new ports will allow much larger ships to get access
and will earn fees in U.S. dollars, meaning devaluations of the
Vietnamese currency won’t hit their balance sheets,” he said.  The port-investment target is part of Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung’s plan to boost Vietnam’s economic growth. The premier
is also striving to tame inflation, which climbed to a two-year
high of 12.31 percent in February.  The  State Bank  of Vietnam raised borrowing costs for the
third time in as many weeks on March 8, increasing its
refinancing and discount rates to 12 percent each, matching the
level of the repurchase rate. The monetary authority devalued
the dong for the fourth time in 15 months on Feb. 11 as it
strives to narrow the nation’s trade deficit.  Officials have also clamped down on the use of gold and
dollars as they seek to stabilize the currency and steady the
economy after  Fitch Ratings , Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  cut Vietnam’s credit rating in 2010. The
central bank devalued the dong by about 7 percent last month,
the most since at least 1993.  Cargo Surge  The dong was little changed at 20,860 per dollar at the
close yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
yield on Vietnam’s benchmark five-year bonds gained four basis
points to 11.94 percent, the highest since May 2010, on
speculation inflation may accelerate. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Dung’s  goal  is to invest as much as 440 trillion dong this
decade to increase deep-water port capacity for larger vessels,
including container ships and oil tankers. The volume of goods
handled will expand to between 900 million and 1.1 billion
metric tons by 2020 from 172.1 million in 2009 under the plan.  Vietnam has a coastline of about 3,400 kilometers facing
the South  China  Sea, giving access to shipping routes to China
and  Japan , across the  Pacific Ocean  to the U.S. and over the  Indian Ocean  toward Europe.  France  unified the country in 1887,
though Japan engaged in border conflicts during World War II.  Four Times  Cargo volumes at Vietnam’s ports surged more than four
times from  1999  to  2009 , while the number of calls by vessels
increased about 215 percent, according to the Vietnam Seaports
Association.  The complex close to Ho Chi Minh City ranked 29th among the
top 100 container ports in 2009, behind such regional rivals as  Singapore . The city-state took the top spot, according to
London-based  Cargo Systems , a unit of Informa Plc.  Dung’s strategy aims to reduce reliance on transiting goods
through neighboring countries, such as Malaysia and Taiwan,
which can accommodate bigger ships. Cai Mep International
Terminal gives access to vessels with a draught of as much as 16
meters, the company said in a presentation dated February 2011.  “Many manufacturing bases are being moved to Vietnam,”
said Jay Ryu, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Mirae Asset
Securities Co. “With the yuan appreciating and costs,
especially labor expenses, on the rise, it’s becoming less
attractive to do business in China and many are moving out.”  Nokia, Intel  Espoo, Finland-based Nokia, the world’s biggest maker of
mobile phones, said this month it plans to open a plant in
Vietnam to manufacture low-end phones. Last year Santa Clara,
California-based Intel, the world’s largest chipmaker, opened a
$1 billion assembly and testing plant in Ho Chi Minh City.    Gerry Weber International AG (GWI1) ,  Germany ’s second-largest
maker of women’s clothing, is increasingly shifting production
from China to sites with cheaper labor, Chief Executive Officer
Gerhard Weber said in an interview in December. The Halle,
Germany-based company cited Vietnam as one of the new locations.  Average monthly pay in 2009 for Shenzhen in China was $235,
compared with monthly manufacturing wages of $100 in Ho Chi Minh
City and $104 in Hanoi, according to data compiled by the  Japan
External Trade Organization .  Gross domestic product rose by an average of 7.3 percent
annually last decade as the government favored expansion to cut
poverty, a stance that’s fueled bursts of quickening inflation,
contributed to trade deficits by stoking imports and led to a
weaker currency.  Taming Inflation  Dung, who is on course to win another five-year term as
prime minister after being reappointed to the ruling  Communist
Party’s  governing Politburo in January, has shifted the focus to
taming consumer prices as he strives to reassure investors the
economy won’t overheat.  The premier aims to curb credit growth to below 20 percent
this year from an earlier target of 23 percent and narrow the  budget deficit  to less than 5 percent of GDP from a goal of
about 6 percent in 2010. At the same time, the government has
targeted annual economic growth of at least 7 percent over the
next decade.  Fitch cited “inconsistent” economic policy as one reason
for its ratings downgrade last year. Moody’s highlighted the
risk of a balance-of-payments crisis and “debt distress” at
state-owned Vietnam Shipbuilding Industry Group, known as
Vinashin, while Standard & Poor’s said the banking system was
vulnerable to shocks following a jump in lending.  ‘On the Sidelines’  “The foreign direct investment numbers haven’t been that
impressive recently as investors are waiting on the sidelines,”
said Sherman Chan, a Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC Plc. “If
the government continues with fiscal and monetary tightening,
then they will soon return to Vietnam.”  The government’s decision to provide some assistance to
Vinashin without bailing the company out entirely is positive,
as it signals the state-owned sector must take responsibility
for its performance, Chan said.  Vinashin risked bankruptcy after expanding into businesses
from securities to tourism, accumulating about 86 trillion dong
of debt as of June, the government said in August.  HSBC this month cut its estimate for Vietnam’s economic
growth to 7 percent in 2011 from 7.5 percent. The company
predicts the dong will be devalued again by about 4 percent in
the third quarter, with inflation slowing by the yearend.  Crucial Seaports  “Seaports play a crucial role in Vietnam’s economic
growth, as trade is central to the growth of manufacturing and
the export of farmed and natural resources,” said Tony Hsun,
managing director of VinaCapital Investment Management Ltd. in
Ho Chi Minh City. “The government’s plan to develop deep-water
ports is therefore extremely important.”  Major projects worth $10.3 billion dollars are under way or
planned in the sector, many with foreign involvement, data from
London-based researcher  Business Monitor International  shows.
Cai Mep International said the port is a joint venture between
APM Terminals, a unit of Denmark’s biggest company A.P. Moeller-
Maersk A/S, and Vietnam National Shipping Lines and Saigon Port.  Vietnam needs further investment in projects such as roads,
railways and terminals, said Creighton of Cordiant Capital.
“That shows there’s a lot of growth ahead of us,” he said.
“We believe in the country’s long-term prospects.” 