-- 
VimpelCom Wins Shareholder Vote on Wind Telecom Acquisition

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n   a n d   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 
2011-03-17T18:14:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/vimpelcom-shareholders-approve-combination-with-wind-telecom.html
VimpelCom Ltd.,  Russia ’s third-
largest wireless carrier by subscribers, won support from
shareholders to acquire Wind Telecom SpA to create the world’s
sixth-largest mobile-phone operator.  The company’s plan to issue new stock to Wind investors,
diluting current shareholders’ stakes, was approved in a meeting
today in Amsterdam, VimpelCom said in a statement. Shareholders
representing 39.8 percent of the free floating shares supported
the resolution and it passed with 53.3 percent of participating
votes, VimpelCom said in the statement.  VimpelCom’s purchase of assets from Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris  was opposed by  Telenor ASA (TEL) , one of its two main
shareholders. The $6.5 billion deal will double VimpelCom’s
mobile customer base to about 173 million, adding subscribers in  Italy ,  Canada ,  Pakistan , Bangladesh and  Algeria  to its clients
in Russia, Ukraine and other countries. VimpelCom  announced  the
plan Oct. 4.  “It’s a massive step, propelling the company into such a
fast geographic expansion from essentially being a regional
player,” VimpelCom Chief Executive Officer Alexander Izosimov
said in an interview. “We’re going into a completely different
modus operandi and that is a big change.”  Regulatory Approvals  The company expects to complete the transaction before June,
he added. It has all the regulatory approvals for the deal in
countries where they are required, spokeswoman Elena Prokhorova
said by e-mail.  Under the terms of the deal, VimpelCom will own Sawiris’s
Wind Telecom’s 51.7 percent stake in  Egypt ’s  Orascom Telecom
Holding SAE (ORTE)  and all of Italian mobile operator Wind
Telecomunicazioni SpA.  Telenor closed 1.9 percent higher at 88.35 kroner in Oslo
trading. Orascom’s global depository receipts rose 3.2 percent
to close at $3.19. VimpelCom rose as much as 2.1 percent to
$13.95 in  New York , and traded 1.3 percent higher at $13.84 as
of 1:59 p.m., valuing the company at $17.8 billion.  “The combined group will have a significantly diversified
revenue base and potential synergies estimated to be $2.5
billion on a net present value basis,” Izosimov said in the
statement.  The new stock will give Wind Telecom’s investors 20 percent
of VimpelCom’s shares outstanding and about 31 percent of voting
rights. That will lower Telenor’s stake  to 31.7 percent  from
39.6 percent and decrease its voting proportion to 25 percent.
Altimo, the other main shareholder, will have its stake diluted
to 31.4 percent from 39.2 percent. Altimo’s  voting rights  will
be reduced to 31 percent.  Arbitration Procedure  “Now the decision is made, Telenor will work
constructively with VimpelCom to make the acquisition work,”
Telenor spokesman Dag Melgaard said in an interview. The company
will try to maintain its stake through the arbitration process
it has started, he said.  Telenor, the Nordic region’s largest phone company,
initiated an arbitration procedure on Jan. 28 to determine
whether the merger is classified as a related party transaction,
enabling VimpelCom to issue the shares without offering them to
Telenor and Altimo first. Doing so would violate the share
agreement between Telenor, VimpelCom and Altimo, which gives it
the right to keep its proportional stake in VimpelCom in case of
an acquisition, Telenor said.  “We note that almost 60 percent of the unaffiliated
shareholders voted against the proposed resolutions, leading to
a narrow overall margin of victory for the supporters of the
deal,” Melgaard said in a statement from Telenor.  Telenor’s Proposal  Altimo supports the merger. It has 44.7 percent of votes in
VimpelCom to Telenor’s 36 percent. Each has three seats on the
board, which approved the deal in January, with Altimo and
independent directors in favor and Telenor opposed.  Izosimov urged shareholders to approve the Wind acquisition
in a March 7 letter. He argued that the transaction would
position Amsterdam-based VimpelCom in the top tier of wireless
operators and increase potential for growth. Diversifying it
away from the Russian ruble would also help, he said.  Telenor suggested the company should strengthen its
existing operations in the next one to two years before
designing an acquisition strategy and pursuing new assets,
 Torbjoern Wist , the head of mergers and acquisitions at Fornebu,
Norway-based Telenor, said March 10.  “I think we will rebuild the relationship with Telenor and
have them as a dynamic and helpful shareholder going forward,”
VimpelCom Chairman Jo Lunder said in an interview.    VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  was formed after Telenor and  Alfa Group 
agreed in October 2009 to merge their stakes in Russia’s OAO
VimpelCom and Ukraine’s ZAT Kyivstar, ending years of legal
disputes over those holdings. The company, which also has assets
in  Kazakhstan , Uzbekistan,  Georgia  and sub-Saharan Africa,
established trading in American depositary receipts and a
headquarters in Amsterdam.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net ;
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  