-- 
Water May Have Reached Reactor as Workers Battle Radiation

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-03-17T21:53:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/water-cannons-may-have-had-some-success-at-fukishima-reactor-tepco-says.html
Water cannons may have had some
success in cooling one reactor at  Japan ’s damaged Fukushima
nuclear plant, while the United Nations nuclear agency said the
situation remained “very serious.”  Cannons and helicopters were used to douse the plant
yesterday as workers tried to stem radioactive pollution from
the worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl. Some water may have
reached the No. 3 reactor, a Tokyo Electric Power Co. official 
said. Engineers worked during the night to connect a power cable 
that may help get Fukushima’s cooling systems working again.  “Everything depends on the amount of water Tepco can bring
to the site,” Olivier Gupta, a deputy head of the Autorite de
Surete Nucleaire, France’s nuclear regulator, said yesterday in
Paris. “The Japanese operator has said it is trying to bring
power back to the site. It’s clearly a positive move, but the
power must supply something like pumps.”    Tokyo Electric ’s failure to end the threat of radiation
from the six-reactor Fukushima plant has prompted the U.S. to
advise its citizens to consider leaving Japan and start
airlifting some out of the country, while  Australia  has advised
against travel to Tokyo. About 2.3 trillion yen ($29 billion)
has been wiped from Tepco’s market value since the March 11
earthquake, tsunami and a series of explosions devastated the
40-year-old power station that is about 135 miles (220
kilometers) north of Tokyo.  ‘Somewhat Effective’  “We were able to see some steam,” Tsuyoshi Makigami,
chief of nuclear facility management at Tokyo Electric, said at
a briefing broadcast by NHK late yesterday. “It’s fair to say
that the spraying was somewhat effective.”  The company plans to lay 1 kilometer of a new power line
during the night to supply electricity to the stricken plant, a
company official told the press conference. The link is intended
to restore power to the plant’s cooling systems.  Engineers had finished laying the line to Unit 2 at the
plant, the UN’s  International Atomic Energy Agency  said in a
statement on its website. Power will be reconnected to that unit
once the spraying of water on Unit 3 ends, the agency said.  The agency said the situation at the three loaded cores --
reactors No. 1, 2 and 3 -- has been “relatively stable” in the
last 24 hours. All three units are damaged and lack cooling,
Director Graham Andrew said yesterday at a briefing in Vienna.
The situation remains “very serious,” he said.  Fuel Rods  The greatest risks at Fukushima may come from the spent
fuel pools that sit on the top of the six reactors.  Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency said yesterday
there is a possibility of no water at the No. 4 reactor’s spent-
fuel cooling pool. If exposed to air, the fuel rods could decay,
catch fire and spew radioactive materials into the air. The
agency has detected no smoke or steam rising from the reactor,
spokesman Hidehiko Nishiyama said.  Exposure of spent-fuel rods to air “could result in
fracturing of the fuel rod cladding and escape of dangerous
radioactive fission products” such as iodine-131, cesium-137
and strontium-90, said Stephen Lincoln, an environmental chemist
at the University of Adelaide.  All water in the No. 4 reactor’s spent-fuel pond has
drained, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Chairman Gregory Jaczko told a congressional panel in Washington March 15. Fuel
rods stored in three reactors at the  Tokyo  Electric plant are
exposed and releasing radiation, Yukiya Amano, head of the
International Atomic Energy Agency, said in Vienna before
departing for Tokyo.  Helicopters Used  Helicopters are being used to determine radiation readings,
water levels in the pool and damage to the reactors, Tepco
spokesman Kaoru Yoshida told reporters in Tokyo yesterday.
Technicians were unable to inspect the facilities because of
high levels of radiation.  Jaczko has said the situation “will take some time,
possibly weeks” to resolve.  More than 320 workers were at the plant site yesterday.
Tokyo Electric evacuated 750 employees on March 15 when
radiation levels spiked.  The recent increase in employees at the Daiichi plant could
indicate that a work rotation is being implemented to minimize  radiation exposure . Japan’s health ministry raised the
cumulative maximum legal exposure for nuclear workers to 250
millisieverts from 100 millisieverts on March 15 to enable
workers to stay longer on the site to prevent a nuclear
disaster.  Radiation Levels  Radiation levels have reached 10 millisieverts per hour in
some parts of the plant, said John Price, a Melbourne-based
consultant on industrial accidents and former member of the
safety policy unit at the National Nuclear Corporation U.K.  “That means they have an access time of 10 to 25 hours at
the most,” Price said in a telephone interview yesterday. “At
that rate, you are going to go through workers very fast.”  The failure of backup generators used to pump cooling water
caused explosions in at least three of the structures
surrounding the station’s reactors, as well as a fire in a pond
containing spent fuel rods.  The NRC’s Jaczko said radiation at the Japanese site is
fluctuating and at peak levels “would be lethal within a fairly
short period of time.”  His information came from NRC staff who were dispatched to
Japan to help with the response and have been in contact with
industry officials there, he said. Jaczko’s assessment prompted
the U.S. to urge American citizens to consider leaving Japan.   France  and  Germany  have already told their citizens to depart.  There have been more than 450 aftershocks since the
magnitude-9 temblor left hundreds of thousands stranded and
without power, with disruptions to food and water supplies. The
Japanese government has dispatched 100,000 troops to the
northeastern region.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  