-- 
Wesfarmers May Sell Coal Mine After Lanco Buys Griffin

-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-03-17T05:41:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/wesfarmers-may-sell-coal-mine-after-lanco-buys-griffin-1-.html
Wesfarmers Ltd., whose businesses
range from mining to insurance to retail, may sell its Premier
thermal  coal mine  in  Western Australia  after receiving enquiries
from possible buyers.  “We feel that this is the right time to look at all
options for the business, ranging from business as usual to
building an export-based operation to a joint venture with
another party right through to the potential sale of Premier
Coal,” Stewart Butel, managing director of the Perth-based
company’s resources unit, said in an e-mailed statement.  Demand for coal from power and steel producers has spurred
mining companies to seek assets worldwide, with deals worth $40
billion announced in the past year. Interest in the state’s
Collie Coal Basin has risen since  India ’s Lanco Infratech Ltd.
bought Griffin Coal Mining Co., Butel said.  “There have been a number of enquiries regarding the
purchase of the Premier Coal operation,” he said. “We hope to
find out how other parties” value Premier Coal, he said.  Wesfarmers fell 0.3 percent to A$31.07 at the 4:10 p.m.
Sydney time close on the Australian stock exchange.  Coal Prices  Thermal coal prices may rise over the next quarter because
of increased demand from  Japan , where an earthquake and tsunami
has knocked out some nuclear power supplies, Deutsche Bank AG
said in a report on March 14. Prices at  Australia ’s Newcastle
port, an Asian benchmark, rose 0.1 percent in the week ending
March 11, according to the globalCOAL NEWC Index.  Most of the coal produced from Premier is sold to
government-owned power provider Verve Energy, according to
Wesfarmers’ website. Wesfarmers produces about 4 million metric
tons a year at Premier  Buying Griffin gave Lanco access to about 4 million tons of
thermal coal a year, Lanco said Dec. 15. Lanco paid A$730
million ($716 million) for Griffin, the Economic Times said on
March 5, citing Chief Financial Officer Suresh Kumar.  Wesfarmers last month reported a 33 percent surge in first-half net income to A$1.173 billion, on rising earnings from coal
and its retail businesses. The resources division, which
includes Premier, increased earnings before interest and tax to
A$250 million in the half from A$2 million a year earlier on
lower royalty payments and higher prices.  In addition to Premier and its production of thermal coal
for power stations, the company has stakes in two other mines
that produce coking coal for steelmakers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net 
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs@bloomberg.net  