-- 
Wheat Caps Biggest Two-Day Gain Since August as Crop Conditions Worsen

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-03-18T20:13:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/wheat-surges-most-in-three-months-on-signs-demand-will-rebound-after-slump.html
Wheat futures rose, capping the
biggest two-day rally since October, on speculation that dry
weather from  Kansas  to Russia will erode global grain supplies.  Parts of Kansas, the biggest U.S. winter-wheat-growing
state, may be as much as 25 degrees Fahrenheit (14 degrees
Celsius) warmer than normal next week, and dryness will expand
over the next two weeks, QT Weather said in a report. Russian
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said winter crops may lose 5
million hectares (12.4 million acres) because of adverse
weather. Ukraine said its crop conditions have deteriorated.  “You’re not going to get a  bumper crop  out of the western
Kansas crop, but you still have a couple of weeks” for plants
to emerge from winter dormancy, said Louise Gartner, the owner
of Spectrum Commodities in Beavercreek,  Ohio . Russia is also
“a pocket of concern,” she said.  Wheat futures for May delivery rose 12.75 cents, or 1.8
percent, to settle at $7.23 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. That commodity has gained 9.2 percent
in two days, the biggest rally since a similar period ended
Oct. 8.  Dry U.S. conditions suggest “a sharp loss of production
in the 2011 harvest,” Gail Martell, the president of Martell
Crop Projections, said in an e-mailed report. “Typically with
severe drought, a sizeable portion of wheat planted area is
never harvested, instead of being grazed out to cattle or torn
up and planted with another crop in the spring.”  Wheat finished the week up 0.6 percent, after dropping to
a five-month low on March 16 on concern the Japanese earthquake
would cut demand for U.S. exports. Futures are up 48 percent in
the past year as drought spurred  Russia  to ban exports until
July 1, and floods eroded crops from  Canada  to  Australia .  The U.S. is the world’s largest wheat exporter. The grain
was the fourth-biggest U.S. crop in 2010 at $13 billion, behind
corn, soybeans and hay, government data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 