-- 
Starwood Property Gives Loan to Help Windsor Avert Hotel Foreclosure Sale

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-03-17T19:24:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/windsor-averts-auction-of-hotels-with-payments-refinancing-with-starwood.html
  Starwood Property Trust Inc. (STWD) , the
real estate investor founded by  Barry Sternlicht , provided a
$165 million loan to Windsor Capital Group Inc. to help the
hotel company retire debt and avert a foreclosure auction.  The agreement to prevent the sale, scheduled for tomorrow,
was reached today, said Patrick Nesbitt, founder of  Santa
Monica , California-based Windsor. His company is the largest
closely held owner and operator of Embassy Suites hotels.
Windsor also manages Marriott properties.  “It took five months to work out the details,” Nesbitt
said in a telephone interview. “The market kept constantly
changing. I truly appreciate the extended time and effort the
Starwood Property Trust team took to complete this
extraordinarily complex refinancing.”  The Starwood loan runs through March 17, 2016. The
agreement stops the sale of five Embassy Suites and one Marriott
hotel, all in  California , Nesbitt said.  "After months of comprehensive due diligence on this
portfolio of hotels we provided a highly structured financing
solution solving Pat Nesbitt’s debt needs resulting in a high
quality loan for Starwood Property Trust," said Boyd Fellows,
president of the Greenwich, Connecticut-based company.  Windsor also sold an apartment building in Walnut Creek,
California, to help pay down a $72 million mezzanine loan held
by Atrium Hotels Management Co., which asked for the auction,
Nesbitt said.  “They were paid off on the loan that they held,” he said.  Windsor remains in negotiations to refinance two portfolios
with 12 additional hotels. Nesbitt said he expects to reach a
resolution on those properties within two months.  Jonathan Eilian, founder of Atrium Hotels, didn’t return
two telephone messages seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  