-- 
Yemen Protest Crackdown Kills Dozens, Emergency Declared

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-03-18T17:25:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/yemeni-demonstrators-clash-with-police-leaving-80-injured.html
Yemen declared a state of emergency
after government forces attacked protesters in Sana’a in the
most violent crackdown in two months of unrest, and the
opposition urged wider protests.  Forty-six people were killed and hundreds injured as police
and pro-regime gunmen shot at a crowd of tens of thousands of
protesters in the capital’s Taghyeer Square and snipers opened
fire from rooftops, doctors treating the wounded said. U.S.
President  Barack Obama  condemned the violence, and the
opposition called for an international investigation.  Saleh, speaking at a press conference to declare the
nationwide emergency rule, said the dead were “martyrs” of
democracy and victims of an attempt to sabotage a Saudi Arabian
initiative to broker an end to conflict in the country, without
giving details. He said police didn’t fire on the protesters,
without saying who did. Interior minister Mutahar al-Masri said
that 25 were killed and 102 injured.  Demonstrations calling for an end to President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s three-decade rule have been held almost every day for
the past two months in Yemen, and before today at least a dozen
people had been killed. The unrest was inspired by popular
uprisings that overthrew rulers in Tunisia and  Egypt  and has
spread across the region. Yemen borders  Saudi Arabia , which this
week sent troops to help quell protests in another of its
neighbours, Bahrain.  Street Fighting  Fighting spread through the streets of Sana’a after the
shootings. Security forces also deployed in the southern city of
Taiz, where tens of thousands of anti-government protesters have
camped out for weeks, Salah al-Dakak, an opposition activist,
said by telephone today. Tanks and armoured vehicles took
control of one entrance to the square where the opposition is
gathered, and troops were seen in surrounding areas, he said.  The opposition Joint Meeting Parties, a coalition of six
groups, urged Yemenis to respond to the attack by joining
protests throughout the country to break down the emergency
rule. It said in an e-mailed statement that today’s “massacre”
has stripped Saleh of “what legitimacy was left to him.”  Saleh has promised a new constitution, called for the
formation of a unity government and said he won’t seek to extend
his term when it expires in 2013. The opposition movement has
dismissed those offers and insists he must step down.  Obama Condemns Violence  In  Washington , Obama said he “strongly” condemns the
violence and urged Saleh to stick with his promise to permit
peaceful protest. “Those responsible for today’s violence must
be held accountable,” Obama said in a statement.  The U.S. has backed Saleh as an ally against al-Qaeda,
whose unit in Yemen has been linked to attacks including the
attempted bombing of a Detroit-bound plane in December 2009.  At a masjid, or place of worship, at a university building
in central Sana’a, volunteers set up a makeshift clinic to care
for the wounded. At least 40 were dispatched to local hospitals
in serious condition. Most injuries were to the head.  “This is a massacre that has been planned well,” Mohammed
al-Sabri, a leader in the opposition, said in an interview
today. “This crime aims to trap the people into violence but we
will not be trapped into violence, and will continue our
protests peacefully till the departure of this criminal
regime.”  ‘Barbaric Crimes’  The opposition movement, in an e-mailed statement, urged
“all human rights organizations and humanitarian organizations
throughout the world to began an immediate investigation of
these barbaric crimes.”  Qatar, a member of the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council,
condemned Yemen’s government for resorting to force against
protesters, saying it “doesn’t help solving the problems and,
on the contrary, complicates them,” according to the state-run
Qatar News Agency.  Saleh, 68, became leader of North Yemen in 1978 and has
ruled the Republic of Yemen since the north and south merged in
1990. His government is also battling a separatist rebellion in
the south.  The president said the Supreme National Defense Council
will meet later today to determine steps to be taken after the
imposition of emergency rule.  Yemen is the Arabian peninsula’s poorest nation and has one
of the world’s most acute water shortages. It was ranked 15th of
60 countries on the  2010 Failed States Index  created by Foreign
Policy magazine and the Fund for Peace, which said only
Afghanistan, Iraq and  Pakistan  are in worse shape among nations
in  Asia  and the Middle East.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  barden@bloomberg.net . 