-- 
Yen Risk Reversals Climb to a Nine-Month High Amid Options Hedging Demand

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-03-17T14:19:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/yen-risk-reversals-climb-to-a-nine-month-high-amid-options-hedging-demand.html
Demand for options that protect
against gains in the yen versus the  U.S. dollar  surged to a
nine-month high as the Japanese currency climbed to a record on
concern the nation’s nuclear crisis is escalating.  The yen strengthened for a fifth day on speculation Japan
will delay intervention to limit the currency’s advance to
counter the repatriation of assets by insurers and investors
seeking to pay for damages after the nation’s worst earthquake.  The so-called risk reversal rate for one-month options on
the dollar versus the yen surged today to as much as a 2.5
percentage point premium in favor of calls granting the right to
buy Japan’s currency over puts giving the right to sell, the
largest since June. The premium has expanded from as small as
0.21 percentage points on March 11.  “The violent surge in yen really scared the market and
induced demand for options as a hedge of further appreciation,”
said  Neil Jones  , head of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. in  London . “Volatility is much higher as
there is also demand from investors using these options as a
proxy hedge for other long assets, not just exchange rate
positions.”  The yen soared 4.5 percent in 26 minutes as markets closed
in New York and re-opened in  Asia  amid speculation automated
trades to limit losses were taking place. The yen reached 76.36
per dollar before erasing its gains, and traded at 78.72 today.
The currency resumed its rally as Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said Group of Seven officials will meet today to discuss
the aftermath of last week’s earthquake in  Japan .  Implied Volatility  One-month implied volatility on options for the dollar-yen
jumped to as high as 20.1 percent, the most since March 2009.
The rate was 8.50 on March 10, a day before the magnitude-9
earthquake hit. Implied volatility is a measure of expected
price swings and the key gauge for option prices.  The G-7 discussions will begin at 6 p.m. New York time and
encompass currencies, Noda told reporters in the capital. Japan
will brief officials on the damage to the economy, he said. Noda
declined to comment on any possible intervention.  The yen had tumbled from a 15-year high versus the dollar
on Sept. 15, sliding the most in almost two years, after the  Bank of Japan  sold 2 trillion yen ($25 billion) in September in
the nation’s first currency market intervention since 2004.  The dollar-yen risk-reversal rate averaged minus 1.67
percentage points since October 2003, with Japanese exporters
traditionally the buyers of U.S. dollar puts, or equivalently
yen calls. A negative rate shows greater relative demand for yen
calls compared with yen puts as gauged by differences in implied
volatility. The options provide corporations insurance against
dollar depreciation, which cuts into export profit when they are
converted back to yen.  Movements in implied volatility, a gauge of traders’
expectations for future currency swings and used in setting
options prices, is a barometer of option demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  