-- 
Yen Repatriation Risk After Quake Not as Large as Feared, Citigroup Says

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-03-17T15:52:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/yen-repatriation-risk-after-quake-not-as-large-as-feared-citigroup-says.html
The amount of yen repatriated by  Japan ’s investors and companies in the aftermath of the nation’s
worst earthquake on record won’t be as large as some analysts
estimate, according to Citigroup Inc.  Insurers may sell Japanese government bonds instead of
selling overseas assets such as U.S. Treasuries to pay claims,
according to Osamu Takashima, a currency strategist at Citigroup
in  Tokyo . The yen rallied to a post-World War II high versus the
dollar today as the risk of radiation leaks from crippled
nuclear plants spurred speculation insurers and investors will
bring funds home.  “Insurance companies have huge balance sheets,” Takashima
said in a phone interview. “However, their foreign investment
share must be quite small. At first they will sell JGBs to
prepare for payments.”  Any impact from Japanese pension funds on the value of the
yen will be “negligible,” and Japanese banks that sell assets
such as Treasuries for yen will “have little influence” on
foreign-exchange markets because their holdings are hedged,
Takashima said.  The 9-magnitude temblor that struck March 11 affected only
a small share of investment trust assets, said Takashima, who
expects investors to withdraw savings from local banks and sell  government bonds  before liquidating those funds.  “I don’t think Japanese investors repatriated all their
money,” Takashima said. Japanese retail traders also “appear
to be increasing yen shorts,” he wrote today in a research
note, referring to bets a currency may decline.  Record Yen  The yen appreciated 0.9 percent to 78.90 versus the dollar
at 11:47 a.m. in New York after touching 76.25, the postwar
high, partly on speculation Japan will delay intervention to
limit the currency’s advance.  The U.S. 10-year note yield increased for the first time in
four days, rising 0.09 percentage point to 3.26 percent after
touching 3.14 percent, the lowest level since Dec. 8. Yields on
10-year Japanese government bonds dropped 0.02 percentage point
to 1.21 percent.  The yen may appreciate to 75 against the dollar in one or
two months before depreciating to 90 as the country’s
current-account surplus falls, according to Takashima.  Takashima said in the interview he spoke with “six or
seven” institutional investors to gauge expectations. He
declined to provide an estimate for yen repatriation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  