-- 
Default Swaps Exceed Chile as Rates Jump, Protests Increase: China Credit

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-03-18T05:49:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/yield-gap-cut-to-6-month-low-on-japan-crisis-australia-credit.html
Australian bond yields fell to the
lowest relative to the world’s benchmark in six months on
investor concern growth will slow due to the nuclear crisis in
Japan, the nation’s second-largest trading partner.  The yield on two-year government debt dropped for a second
straight week, narrowing the premium over similar U.S. notes to
412 basis points on March 15 as investors scaled back
expectations the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  will raise interest
rates. The gap was the smallest since Sept. 13 and has shrunk 39
basis points since Dec. 31, heading for the biggest quarterly
decline since the final three months of 2008.  The magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami that triggered
radiation leaks at Japan’s Fukushima nuclear plant threaten to
cripple growth in the world’s third-largest economy, which
accounted for about 19 percent of Australian exports last year.
Investor expectations for an RBA rate increase reversed after
the March 11 temblor, sending the Australian dollar to a three-
month low.  “In the unlikely event that something really terrible does
happen then the RBA is the only central bank in the world that
can materially cut rates,” said Matthew Johnson, an interest-
rate strategist at UBS AG in Sydney. “That’s the reason why our
short end is tightening up relative to the rest of the world.”  The yield on 10-year  government bonds  fell 9 basis points
this week to 5.39 percent today, heading for the biggest monthly
decline since August. The spread to similar-dated Treasuries
widened 3 basis points this week to 211.  Cash Rate Bets  Swaps traders are betting there’s a 13 percent chance the
RBA will cut the cash rate next month by 25 basis points for the
first time in two years, up from 4 percent on March 11,
according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index.  The Australian dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, was at 99.39 U.S. cents at 4:22 p.m. in Sydney today
after falling to as low as 97.06 U.S. cents yesterday, the least
since Dec. 2.  Markets were battered as U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Chairman Gregory Jaczko told lawmakers in Washington March 16
that all the water has drained from a spent-fuel pond at the
crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant north of  Tokyo  and high
levels of radiation have been released.  Engineers worked during the night to connect a power cable
as they tried to restore cooling systems at the 40-year-old
power station, about 135 miles (220 kilometers) north of Tokyo.
Some water fired from cannons and dumped from helicopters may
have reached the No. 3 reactor, according to a Tokyo Electric
Power Co. official.  Governments and airlines in the U.S.,  France ,  Russia ,  Belgium ,  Sri Lanka  and  China  made airplanes available for
citizens wishing to evacuate.  Power Cuts  Factory shutdowns, power cuts and the impact on  consumer
confidence  may hurt Japan’s gross domestic product for months,
while contributing to growth later as the country rebuilds
plants, homes and infrastructure.  Japan buys about half of Australia’s thermal coal exports
and a third of coking coal shipments, according to RBC Capital
Markets Ltd. Two-way trade between the nations rose to A$61.7
billion ($61.3 billion) in 2010 from A$54.9 billion the previous
year, compared with a record A$70.1 billion in 2008, according
to government data.  Japan accounts for about 70 percent of Australia’s exports
of liquefied natural gas, the RBA said in a  paper  released
yesterday.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index has dropped 0.4 percent this
week, compared with a 2.7 percent decline for the  MSCI World (MXWO) 
Index of developed nations as of 4:28 p.m. in Sydney today.  Bond Protection  The cost of protecting Australian corporate debt from
default increased. The Markit iTraxx Australia index rose 3.5
basis points during the week to 115 basis points yesterday,
according to CMA.  The index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  No local or overseas companies have started marketing a
debt sale in Australia since the earthquake, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “A major nuclear power incident within the world’s third-
largest economy was always going to put investors on edge,”
said Chris Viol, a Sydney-based credit analyst at UBS. “While
the uncertainty continues, risk assets in Australia and globally
will remain volatile.”  Growth Forecasts  The RBA has raised borrowing costs seven times from October
2009 to November last year to 4.75 percent, the highest in the
developed world. It’s forecasting 4.25 percent economic
expansion in 2011 as the country’s biggest resources boom in a
century spurs growth.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. lowered its estimates for Australian
growth, citing concerns about the impact of the quake and
expectations for a slower U.S. expansion.  Australia’s economy will expand 2.6 percent this year
compared with the 2.8 percent growth it previously estimated,
the bank said yesterday in a statement. The RBA will hold  interest rates  unchanged until August, rather than starting to
increase borrowing costs in May, and then raise them once a
quarter, JPMorgan said.  The government sold three-month bills yesterday at less
than the RBA cash rate for the first time since 2009. The
average yield dropped to 4.67 percent, from 4.78 percent at the
previous sale of such debt on Feb. 24. Demand rose to the most
since August 2009 with the government receiving bids for 9.2
times the A$600 million of debt offered, according to the
Australian Office of Financial Management.  Inflation Expectations  The gap between yields on Australian government bonds and
inflation-indexed notes shows investors expect consumer prices
will rise an annual 2.91 percent for the next five years. While
that’s the fastest among eight developed nations tracked by
Bloomberg, such a rate would be within the RBA’s target for
inflation to average 2 percent to 3 percent.  RBA Governor Glenn Stevens left the cash rate unchanged
this month for a third straight meeting, saying the current
level is “mildly restrictive.”  Investors are betting the central bank will cut 1 basis
point from the cash rate over the next 12 months, the first time
they’ve signaled a reduction since Sept. 3, according to a
Credit Suisse index based on trading in swaps as of 4:37 p.m. in
Sydney today.  “There will be some near-term disruptions for Australia,
but over the medium, we see a greater level of demand coming out
of  Japan ,” according to Jarrod Kerr, director of Australia
rates strategy at Credit Suisse in  Singapore , who said the RBA
is unlikely to cut rates. Australia “stands ready to export
much needed energy and materials used in Japan’s eventual
rebuilding effort.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  