-- 
Tyson, Smithfield May Increase Japanese Meat Exports Following Earthquake

-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 
2011-03-17T19:40:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/tyson-smithfield-may-increase-meat-exports-to-japan-following-earthquake.html
  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , the largest meat
processor in the U.S., and  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD) , the world’s
biggest pork processor, likely will raise shipments to Japan
because of disruption to the country’s output, analysts said.  Japanese demand for imported pork will climb in coming
months, Jeffrey Farmer, a Boston-based analyst for Jefferies &
Co., said in an e-mail today. Supplies of pork and beef in the
U.S. are already tight and higher shipments to Japan may boost
prices, said Tim Ramey, an analyst in  Lake Oswego , Oregon, for
D.A. Davidson & Co.  “Significant inventory replenishment is required near term
given empty supermarket shelves and Japan’s protein production
is disrupted,”  Farha Aslam , a New York-based analyst for
Stephens Inc., said in a report. “Tyson and Smithfield have
indicated that export traders are requesting as much product as
possible be shipped to  Japan .”  Last week’s earthquake and tsunami damaged feed plants and
slaughter houses and caused power outages and fuel shortages,
hindering livestock output in affected areas, said Susumu Harada, a senior director at the Tokyo office of the U.S. Meat
Export Federation. Prefectures with damage include Iwate, Miyagi
and Fukushima, which represent about 9 percent of Japan’s hog
herd and 10 percent of beef cattle, according to the group.  Largest Importer  Japan is the world’s largest pork importer and the biggest
export market for Smithfield, accounting for 43 percent of its
shipments, according to the Smithfield, Virginia-based company’s
 website . International sales made up 11 percent of its fiscal
2010 revenue. The country is also the leading destination for
Springdale, Arkansas-based  Tyson ’s pork exports.  Still, Japanese protein demand may drop,  Ken Goldman , an
analyst for JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York, said in a report
yesterday. That would present a “large” risk for U.S.
producers, he said.  “We are not subscribers to the theory that the Japanese
may be buying a lot of meat to keep in freezers near-term,” he
said.  U.S. retail ground beef prices rose 17 percent to almost
$2.66 a pound in the year through February while pork chops rose
8.5 percent to $3.48 a pound, according to Department of
Agriculture data.  Keira Lombardo, a Smithfield spokeswoman, didn’t respond
immediately to telephone and e-mail messages seeking comment.
Gary Mickelson, a Tyson spokesman, said the company hasn’t
experienced any disruption to shipments to Japan and its Tokyo
sales office is operating and fully staffed.  “Our export business to Japan remains steady,” Mickelson
said in an e-mail. “It remains premature to predict how the
unfortunate situation in Japan will affect our export sales.”  Tyson was 2 cents higher at $18.48 as of 2:50 p.m. in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading. Smithfield rose 22 cents
to $21.52.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in  Chicago  at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 