-- 
Zimmer, Biomet, Nobel Said to Be Among Bidders for AstraZeneca Dental Unit

-- B y   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   [ b n : P R S N = 1 6 8 5 1 3 7 5 ]   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y   [ ]
-- 
2011-03-17T16:20:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/zimmer-biomet-nobel-said-to-be-among-bidders-for-astrazeneca-dental-unit.html
  Zimmer Holdings Inc. (ZMH)  and Biomet
Inc. are among the bidders for  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s Astra Tech, a
Swedish unit that makes dental implants and medical devices,
said two people with direct knowledge of the matter.    Nobel Biocare Holding AG (NOBN) ,  Straumann Holding AG (STMN) ,  Dentsply
International Inc. (XRAY)  and buyout firms Cinven Ltd. and Nordic
Capital also are involved in the sale, along with other
device makers and private-equity firms, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the process is confidential.
 Advent International Corp. , a Boston-based private equity firm,
has pulled out of the race, one of the people said.  Bankers at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  last month sent information
on the unit to prospective buyers, with first-round bids due
this week, said one of the people. The line-up for the second
round of the auction should be clearer by the end of next week,
the people said. Astra Tech may be sold as a whole or in parts,
they said. The unit may fetch between $1.8 billion and $2.1
billion, analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein wrote in a Nov. 17
note.  AstraZeneca decided the business isn’t central to the
company’s strategy of focusing on  prescription drugs , Chief
Financial Officer Simon Lowth said on a Jan. 27 conference call.
The drugmaker said in November it was reviewing “strategic
options” for  Astra Tech  and had hired JPMorgan.  “The strategic review is ongoing,” AstraZeneca said in an
e-mailed statement today. “AstraZeneca continues to evaluate
all alternatives for value maximization from this business and
any final decision will only be made when the results of the
review have concluded.” The company declined to comment
further.  Dental Implants  AstraZeneca, the U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker after
GlaxoSmithKline Plc, is seeking about $2 billion for the unit,
people with knowledge of the matter said in November. Astra Tech
is the third-biggest dental implant maker behind Straumann and
Nobel Biocare.  Spokespeople for Nobel, Zimmer, Biomet and Dentsply didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment. Officials at Cinven
and Advent declined to comment. A spokesman for Nordic Capital
couldn’t immediately be reached. Danaher Corp. also may be
bidding, analysts have said.  Straumann Chief Executive Officer Beat Spalinger said Feb.
15 that the Basel, Switzerland-based company would consider
acquisition opportunities, including Astra Tech. A Straumann
spokesman declined to comment today.  AstraZeneca rose 31.5 pence, or 1.1 percent, to 2,833 pence
at 3:30 p.m. in London trading, giving the company a market
value of 39.3 billion pounds ($63.4 billion).  Astra Tech, which also makes medical devices for urology
and surgery, has 2,200 employees and owns subsidiaries in 16
markets. The Moelndal, Sweden-based company had sales of $535
million in 2010, according to AstraZeneca’s 2010 earnings
announcement. In 2007 AstraZeneca bought Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Atlantis Components Inc. for $71 million,
which gave the U.K. company access to computer-aided design
technology for dental implant abutments. 