-- 
Zloty May Drop on ‘Weak’ Polish Finances, Danske Bank Says

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-03-17T15:36:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/zloty-may-drop-on-weak-polish-finances-danske-bank-says-1-.html
The zloty may depreciate because of  Poland ’s “weak” public finances, “large” current-account
deficit, higher inflation and the prospect of slower economic
growth from next year, according to Danske Bank A/S.  Poland’s currency may weaken to 4.15 per euro in the “near
future” and stay at that  exchange rate  for 12 months, compared
with Danske Bank’s earlier projection of about 4.00, analysts
led by Lars Christensen in Copenhagen wrote in a research report
today. The zloty strengthened 0.6 percent to 4.0703 per euro by
4:17 p.m. in Warsaw.  “The markets have not fully reacted” to the “worsening
of Polish fundamentals, not only weak public finances and the
large current-account deficit, but also higher inflation,” the
Danske Bank analysts wrote. “This should put downward pressure
on the zloty over the longer horizon.”  The largest of the European Union’s eastern economies needs
to cut its  budget deficit  from an estimated 7.9 percent of gross
domestic product last year to 3 percent to comply with the
bloc’s rules. Its current-account deficit almost doubled from a
year earlier in December to 1.57 billion euros ($2.1 billion).
Inflation was 3.6 percent in February, faster than the central
bank’s 2.5 percent target, after the economy expanded at an
annual 4.4 percent in the fourth quarter.  The  Narodowy Bank Polski , or central bank, left borrowing
costs unchanged this month after a quarter-point increase in
January, citing lagging investment growth and high unemployment.
Governor  Marek Belka  said more rate increases should be expected
as stronger economic growth boosts wage and price pressures,
which may keep inflation expectations at “elevated” levels.  “The outlook for the necessary tightening of fiscal and
monetary policy is likely to dampen growth going into 2012,”
Danske Bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  