-- 
France Telecom’s Kenyan Unit Awards 3G Contract to ZTE

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-03-17T08:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-17/zte-of-china-signs-agreement-with-france-telecom-s-kenyan-unit-on-hardware.html
  France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s Kenyan unit
awarded a 4 billion-shilling ($47 million) contract to  ZTE Corp. (000063) 
to build a third-generation mobile-phone network that it expects
to help double customers.  ZTE will install 1,500 so-called 3G base stations across
the East African country over the next two months, focusing on
Nairobi, the capital, the port city of Mombasa and Kisumu in
western  Kenya , Telkom Kenya Ltd. Chief Executive Officer Mickael Ghossein told reporters today.  “We expect to double our subscribers from the current 2.3
million active customers by the end of 2011,” Ghossein said.  Mobile operators in  Kenya  are becoming more reliant on data
for revenue after the industry regulator in August halved the
rates that operators charge each other to connect voice calls
across networks to 2.21 shillings. That triggered a round of
cuts in call costs by companies to less than 2 shillings per
minute and in some cases free calls during off- peak hours.  Telkom competes with  Safaricom Ltd. (SAFCOM) , East  Africa ’s biggest
mobile operator, Airtel Kenya Ltd., a unit of New Delhi-based  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , and Essar Telecom Kenya Ltd., a subsidiary
of Essar Group.  ‘Revenue Earner’  “We expect data services to be the main revenue drivers
going forward and the 3G network will enhance our service
delivery through faster downloads,” Ghossein said.  3G networks enable faster data transmission and allow
mobile-phone users to download music and video to their
handsets. The system being installed by ZTE will provide
download speeds of 21 megabytes per second, Ghossein said.
Safaricom, the only other operator of a 3G network in Kenya,
offers speeds of as much as 7.2 megabytes per second, according
to the company’s  website .  “The 3G network we are installing will allow seamless
upgrades from 2G to 3G and 4G without expensive network overlays
and infrastructural replacement,” said Zhang Renjun, ZTE’s vice
president for Africa.    France Telecom  owns 51 percent of Telkom Kenya, which
trades under the Orange brand name. The remaining shares are
held by the Kenyan government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 