-- 
Sony’s ‘Just Go With It’ Is Top Film With $31 Million

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-02-14T21:55:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/-just-go-with-it-is-top-movie-at-theaters-this-weekend-with-31-million.html
The romantic comedy “Just Go With
It” opened in first place in U.S. and Canadian theaters, taking
in ticket sales of $30.5 million for  Sony Corp .  The 3-D concert film “Justin Bieber: Never Say Never”
took second place in its debut, generating $29.5 million in
sales for  Viacom Inc .’s  Paramount Pictures , researcher
 Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed statement.
Sales fell for a 14th straight weekend, approaching the record
of 19 set in 2005.  New films have failed to match the performance of 2010
releases, even as studios emerge from the shadow of “Avatar,”
the top-grossing movie in history with $2.78 billion worldwide.
The James Cameron film had weekend sales of $23.6 million a year
ago, enough to influence comparisons.  “It was a good weekend, but the product overall this year
just hasn’t been as appealing, and we just don’t have an
‘Avatar’ this year,” said  Paul Dergarabedian , president of
Hollywood.com’s box-office division. “But finally, we are
starting to see films gain momentum.”  “Just Go With It” stars  Adam Sandler  as a plastic surgeon
who is attracted to a younger woman. He enlists his assistant,
played by  Jennifer Aniston , to help cover up the lies he tells.
Brooklyn Decker co-stars as the new love interest.  “Justin Bieber: Never Say Never” features the young
singer in three-dimensional concert footage while examining his
rise from a street performer in his hometown of Stratford,
Ontario.  ‘Gnomeo & Juliet’  “For Justin Bieber to be competing with Sandler in his
first movie is astonishing,” said Dergarabedian. “The teen-
girl audience wields a tremendous amount of clout, and when they
get behind a movie or star, the box-office results can be
amazing.”  Among other new releases, “Gnomeo & Juliet,” opened in
third place with sales of $25.4 million. The  Walt Disney Co .
animated film, about romance among garden gnomes, features the
voices of James McAvoy, Emily Blunt and Maggie Smith. It had the
highest February opening for an animated film in box-office
history, Hollywood.com said.  The action film “The Eagle,” from  Comcast Corp .’s Focus
Features, was fourth with $8.7 million. The film stars Channing Tatum as a Roman soldier who journeys into northern Britain to
uncover the mystery surrounding his father’s death and restore
his reputation.  Sales Down 24 Percent  Last weekend’s top film, the Sony thriller “The
Roommate,” dropped to fifth place with $8.1 million. It stars
Leighton Meester as a college freshman who becomes obsessed with
her new roommate, played by Minka Kelly. The film was made for
about $8 million, according to the Internet Movie Database.  Domestic box-office sales this year total $1.17 billion,
down 24 percent from a year earlier. Attendance is off 25
percent. Revenue for the top 12 films this weekend was $134.8
million, down from $189 million a year earlier, according to
Hollywood.com.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Feb.
11-13.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net .
To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net  