-- 
‘King’s Speech’ Sweeps Britain’s Baftas Before Assault on Oscars

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-02-14T02:55:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/-king-s-speech-wins-best-film-bafta-firth-takes-home-best-actor-trophy.html
“The King’s Speech,” about the
struggle by Queen Elizabeth II’s father to overcome a lifelong
stammer, won seven  British Academy Film Awards , or Baftas, in  London  last night. It’s now vying for 12 Oscars.  The drama took prizes for best film, best British film,
best actor, best supporting actor and actress, best original
screenplay and best music at a ceremony in the  Royal Opera House .
Actor  Colin Firth , in the title role of King George VI, bagged
his second Bafta in a row. Also a Golden Globe winner and an
Oscar nominee, he was asked where he would fit all his trophies.  “The shelf space has been quite empty for half a
century,” the 50-year-old told a roomful of reporters after the
victory. “There’s plenty of space for the things I have picked
up in the last year and a half.”  Started in 1947 and honoring films produced worldwide that
were shown in U.K. cinemas, the Baftas are now held before the
 Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences  awards, or Oscars,
and can be a leading indicator of the Hollywood victors. The
Oscars will be held in Los Angeles  Feb. 27 .  The evening’s other main winner was “The  Social Network ,”
about Facebook founder  Mark Zuckerberg  and his ascension from
geeky college student to global billionaire. Its director  David Fincher  took a Bafta in absentia. The movie also triumphed for
its adapted screenplay (by writer  Aaron Sorkin ) and editing.  “Black Swan,” another multiple Bafta nominee, landed just
one prize: The best-actress award went to  Natalie Portman  as the
tormented ballerina hungry for the limelight.  Wet Carpet  Pregnant Portman was absent from the ceremony, as were many
other nominees. Rainy weather led ushers in dark suits to open
giant, logoed umbrellas over celebrities’ heads while the latter
signed autographs on the clammy red carpet.  One closely watched arrival was Helena Bonham Carter. At
last month’s Golden Globes, presented by the Hollywood Foreign
Press Association, she had worn non-matching shoes: one pink and
one green.  Winner of the best-supporting-actress Bafta last night --
as George VI’s wife in “The King’s Speech” -- Bonham Carter
looked comparatively demure, in a black Vivienne Westwood gown
and bolero, and matching black shoes. She still complained in
her acceptance speech that her underskirt was “hitched up and
snarled at the moment.”  The actress, who starred as the Red Queen in last year’s
“Alice in Wonderland,” said: “I think I should thank the
royal family, frankly, because they have done wonders for my
career.”  Keeping Mum  The movie’s Bafta-winning writer David Seidler recalled how
he had appealed to the king’s widow -- the Queen Mother -- for
permission to draft the script.  On “lovely cream-colored stationery” bearing the emblem
of her official residence, he said, the Queen Mum wrote back
“saying ‘Please, Mr. Seidler, not in my lifetime. The memory of
these events is still too painful.’”  “I didn’t think I’d have to wait that long; she was a very
old lady -- a couple of years, three at the most,” Seidler
joked. “Twenty-five years later, just shy of 102, she left this
mortal world, and I could write the screenplay.”  The runners-up for this year’s best-film Bafta were “The
Social Network;”   Black Swan ;” “True Grit,” about a U.S.
marshal who helps a teenage girl find her dad’s killer; and
“Inception,” a dream-invasion thriller with  Leonardo DiCaprio .  With the 83rd Annual Academy Awards due to be handed out
this month, Firth quipped that it wouldn’t be long before he was
back to his usual routine.  “I know it will be the school run and taking out the
rubbish very soon,” he said.  To contact the writer on the story: Farah Nayeri in London at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at  mbeech@bloomberg.net  or. 