-- 
MALAYSIA DAYBOOK: Pos Malaysia Bids, KrisAssets Announcement

-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 
2011-02-13T22:28:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/malaysia-daybook-pos-malaysia-bids-krisassets-announcement.html
A consortium led by Malaysian
billionaire Syed Mokhtar Al-Bukhary is the favorite to buy a
32.2 percent stake in Pos Malaysia Bhd. (POSM MK), the Edge
reported on Feb. 12, without saying where it got the information.  Khazanah Nasional Bhd., the state-owned  investment company 
which is selling the stake, set a deadline of today for offers,
the Malaysian weekly newspaper said. Sapura Group has teamed up
with Deutsche Post AG to make a bid, while Scomi Marine Bhd.
(SMB MK) is partnering with another European postal group,
according to the report.  WHAT TO WATCH:
KrisAssets Holdings Bhd. (KRIS MK) may buy The Gardens Mall in  Kuala Lumpur  for almost 1 billion ringgit ($328 million), the
Business Times reported, without saying where it got the
information. Shares of KrisAssets and its parent IGB Corp. are
suspended today pending an announcement.  MARKETS:
* Malaysia’s FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index fell 0.6 percent.
* The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 0.6 percent.
* The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  increased 0.4 percent.
* Palm oil April-delivery futures rose 0.7 percent to 3,955
ringgit ($1,294) a metric ton.  EQUITY PREVIEW:
* AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA MK):  Southeast Asia ’s biggest budget
carrier, said it agreed to defer the deliveries of 10 Airbus
A320 aircraft to 2015 from 2012. The airline won’t incur
penalties for the revised delivery schedule, it said in a
statement to the Kuala Lumpur stock exchange.
* Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY MK): Malaysia’s biggest lender by
market value plans to sell a 17 percent stake in PT Bank
Internasional  Indonesia , a deal that could help raise 2.35
billion ringgit ($769.7 million), the Edge reported on Feb. 12,
citing officials it didn’t name. Maybank, as Malaysia’s banking
group is known, has until June to reduce its stake in the
Indonesian bank to 80 percent, according to the report.
* RHB Capital Bhd. (RHBC MK): Group Managing Director Tajuddin
Atan may quit the Malaysian bank to take up the top post at
Bursa  Malaysia  Bhd., the Edge reported on Feb 12, citing people
it didn’t name. Yusli Mohamed Yusoff’s has said he won’t stay on
as Bursa’s chief executive officer when his term expires next
January.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  