-- 
Tiger Woods Fades to 20th in Wind as Quiros Wins Dubai Desert Classic Golf

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-02-14T01:51:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/alvaro-quiros-wins-dubai-desert-classic-tiger-woods-slips-in-final-round.html
  Tiger Woods  said his retooled golf
swing didn’t hold up in windy conditions at the Dubai Desert
Classic, where he fell out of contention in the final round and
finished seven shots behind winner Alvaro Quiros.  Woods, seeking his first victory since November 2009, shot
a 3-over-par 75 yesterday to finish in a tie for 20th. It was
his worst performance in six appearances at a tournament he won
in 2006 and 2008.  Woods, who started reworking his swing in August with new
coach  Sean Foley , was two shots off the lead with seven holes to
play at Emirates Golf Club. He bogeyed the 12th and 14th holes
before closing with a double-bogey at the par-5 18th, where he
hit his third shot into a water hazard.  “All of my old feels are out the window when the wind
blows,” Woods, 35, said during a news conference. “It’s fine
when the wind is not blowing, but when I have to hit shots and
the wind blows, the change of feels and the new swing patterns,
they get exposed.”  Spain’s Quiros finished with an 11-under-par total of 277,
one stroke better than  South Africa ’s James Kingston and  Denmark ’s Anders Hansen. Quiros, 28, eagled the par-4 second
hole and made a hole-in-one at the par-3 11th hole. His ace came
three holes after he’d lost his ball in the branches of a palm
tree and made a triple bogey.  “It’s always difficult to make a hole-in-one, but in a
final round, and being in contention, it’s even more exciting,”
said Quiros, who entered the tournament at No. 36 on the
Official World Golf Ranking.  Quiros collected a check for 301,353 euros ($408,500) after
claiming his fifth European Tour title.  Final-round Fade  Woods, who has fallen to third in the world during his
winless run, was among several players to fade during the final
round.  Spain ’s Sergio Garcia tied Woods at 4-under for the
tournament after also carding a 3-over round yesterday.    Northern Ireland ’s Rory McIlroy dropped to 10th and world
No. 1  Lee Westwood  of England dropped three shots on the last
two holes to finish tied for 15th.  Woods entered the final round one shot off the lead after
rounds of 71, 66 and 72. He said he saw “quite a few
positives” and a couple of “glaring examples” of what he
needs to work on. Following a clean second round, Woods had
eight bogeys and two double bogeys during the weekend.  “I’ve been through this before with my last two
instructors, and it will come around,” said Woods. “I just
need more work and more practice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  