-- 
Mario Lemieux Criticizes NHL for Sanctions on Penguins-Islanders Fights

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-02-13T21:39:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/mario-lemieux-criticizes-nhl-for-sanctions-on-penguins-islanders-fights.html
Pittsburgh Penguins owner Mario Lemieux said the  National Hockey League  didn’t hand out stiff
enough sanctions after a brawl-tarnished game against the  New
York Islanders .  The  league suspended  Pittsburgh’s Eric Godard for 10 games
and  New York ’s Trevor Gillies and Matt Martin for nine and four
games respectively. The NHL also fined the Islanders $100,000.  Lemieux said the punishments were insufficient after
officials handed out 65 penalties totaling 346 minutes and
ejected 10 players during New York’s 9-3 win at the Nassau
Veterans Memorial Coliseum in Uniondale, New York on Feb. 11.  “The NHL had a chance to send a clear and strong message
that those kinds of actions are unacceptable and embarrassing to
the sport,” Lemieux, a Hall of Fame player who spent 17 seasons
with the Penguins, said in a  statement  on the team’s website
today. “It failed.”  Gillies will lose $24,193 in salary, Martin will forsake
$41,585 and Godard will relinquish $40,322, the  league said .  Godard’s penalty was automatic because he left the bench to
take part in a third-period melee, the league said. Gillies was
punished for striking Pittsburgh’s Eric Tangradi with an elbow
and throwing several punches to his head, leading to a
concussion for Tangradi, while Martin was banned for punching
opponent Max Talbot from behind.  “The message should be clear to all players: targeting the
head of an opponent by whatever means will be dealt with by
suspension,” NHL Senior Executive Vice President of Hockey
Operations Colin Campbell said in the league’s statement.  The 45-year-old Lemieux, who bought the Penguins out of
bankruptcy in 1999, said the events were “a travesty” and
reduced the game to a “sideshow.” He said the incidents have
caused him to reflect on whether to continue in the sport.  “We, as a league, must do a better job of protecting the
integrity of the game and the safety of our players,” said
Lemieux, the seventh-leading scorer in NHL history. “If the
events relating to Friday night reflect the state of the league,
I need to rethink whether I want to be a part of it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 