-- 
Australia Agrees to Boost Health Care Spending by $16.4 Billion Under Deal

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 
2011-02-13T13:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/australia-agrees-to-boost-health-care-spending-by-16-4-billion-under-deal.html
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  and
Australian state leaders reached agreement on a formula to fund
health care in the country that will give the states an
additional A$16.4 billion ($16.4 billion) under a new funding
arrangement devised at a meeting in Canberra.  The federal government agreed to pay states 50 percent of
the growth in their hospital costs, Gillard said at a news
conference yesterday, after more than six hours of talks with
the state leaders.  “It’s a very major achievement,” Gillard said.
Australians will begin to see “real change” starting July 1,
she said.  Australia’s population will rise to 36 million by 2050,
from 22 million this year, and one quarter will be aged 65 and
over, Treasury forecasts. Gillard dropped a proposal to claw
back taxes states get from the sale of goods and services, or
the GST, which was opposed, most vehemently, by Western  Australia  Premier  Colin Barnett .  “Surrendering the GST was a show stopper,” Barnett said
at the news conference today. “Taking it off the table opened
the door.”  Without the agreement rising health care costs threatened
to overrun state budgets, Gillard said.  “That’s where we were headed,” she said. “The national
agreement avoids that.”  Needs Support  Gillard’s  Labor Party  formed a minority government after
elections in August with a promise to provide extra health
spending to country areas represented in Parliament by
independent lawmakers. She needs the support of four
legislators, either independents or from the Greens Party, to
hold a majority in Australia’s 150-seat lower house.  Technical details of the agreement will still have to be
worked out by officials at federal and state levels, Gillard
said.  The new deal will provide “unprecedented transparency,
more money, more beds, more local control,” Gillard said.  Health changes are key to Gillard winning voter confidence.
Her popularity fell to 48 percent, the lowest since the
election, according to a Newspoll published in the Australian
newspaper this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net 
Wendy Pugh in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  