-- 
Bahrain Human-Rights Organization Urges King to Free Detainees

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-02-13T17:49:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/bahrain-human-rights-organization-urges-king-to-free-detainees.html
A human-rights organization in
Bahrain, where protests are planned for tomorrow, urged the
Persian Gulf island kingdom’s monarch to release detainees and
open talks with opposition groups.  King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa must “start serious dialogue
with civil society and opposition groups on disputed issues,”
the Manama-based Bahrain Centre for Human Rights said in a
letter to the monarch dated yesterday. Measures must be taken to
avoid use of violence by security forces against peaceful
protests, it said.  Bahrain, home to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet, experienced
violent clashes between Shiite Muslims and police before
parliamentary elections in October. The Shiites, who represent
between 60 and 70 percent of the population, say they face job
and housing discrimination by the government.  “The Revolution of 14th February in Bahrain” group on
Facebook Inc.’s website is backing the protest and has more than
13,400 followers.  North African and Middle East countries were shaken in the
last few weeks by protests and demonstrations that drove
Tunisian President Zine el Abidine Ben Ali from office in
January and forced  Egypt ’s  Hosni Mubarak  to cede his
presidential powers to the country’s armed forces on Feb. 11.  Bahrain’s royal family has close ties with Sunni-ruled
Saudi Arabia, the largest Arab economy. Many among Bahrain’s
populace retain cultural and family links with Shiite-dominated  Iran ,  Saudi Arabia ’s main regional rival.  The release of more than 450 detainees would help “ease
the tension” between Bahrain’s ruling family and the Shiite
majority, Nabeel Rajab, head of the human-rights group, said in
the letter. The king could “avoid the fatal mistake committed”
in Egypt and  Tunisia  by “the dissolving of the security
apparatus” he said.  The monarch ordered the payment of 1,000 dinars ($2,652) to
each Bahraini family to mark the 10th anniversary of the
National Action Charter, the Bahrain News Agency said Feb. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in  Riyadh  at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  