-- 
Boeing 747-8 Passenger Jet Gets Lift Toward Delivery From Freighter Tests

-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 
2011-02-14T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/boeing-expects-passenger-version-of-747-8-to-fly-in-early-spring-in-u-s-.html
  Boeing Co .’s year of flight tests on
the 747-8 freighter may help the planemaker meet a goal of
delivering the passenger version by year-end, removing the
stigma of delays from its newest jumbo jet.  Boeing has targeted the end of March for the first flight
of the aircraft, which it calls the Intercontinental, said Todd
Zarfos, vice president of engineering for the 747-8. Work on the
freighter during the past year is expected to make regulatory
certification for the passenger version easier, he said.  “Those fixes have already been incorporated in the
Intercontinental,” Zarfos said in an interview after Boeing
showed the  new aircraft  to customers, employees and investors
yesterday in Everett,  Washington . “The airplane itself is
largely the same as a 747-8 freighter.”  Meeting benchmarks such as first flight and delivery is
important for Chicago-based Boeing, with the plastic-composite
787 Dreamliner delayed by three years, the 747 freighter about
two years late and the  passenger jet  a year behind schedule,
analysts said.  “I want that Boeing that used to never miss, under-
promise, to show up, and start with the 747,” said  Howard Rubel , a New York-based analyst with Jefferies & Co. The string
of delays has “cost them money, it’s cost them share and it’s
cost them reputation. And they can regain it.”  The fifth variant of the 747, the Intercontinental was
rolled out from the same Everett, Washington, factory that
made the first version of the plane more than 40 years earlier.
The newest version stretches the iconic hump and carries about
467 passengers in a typical three-class configuration, fewer
than the usual 525 in the larger  Airbus SAS A380 .  ‘The Right Size’  The 747-8 will “put heat on the A380,” Elizabeth Lund,
deputy program manager, said yesterday.  “With an A380, you run
the risk of not filling every seat whenever you fly. It’s, we
think, really the right size most of the time in most markets.”  The Intercontinental, with an average list price of $317.5
million, has  33 orders  to date, with 20 of them from  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG  and five from Korean Air Lines Co. Carriers
typically receive discounts for large orders.  Lufthansa’s Nico Buchholz, who expects his company to
receive its first 747-8 in 2012, said he remembered a
meeting with Boeing executives in 2002 to discuss a more
efficient version of the Boeing 747-400. The resulting aircraft
lowers seat-mile costs for carriers by 13 percent and boosts  fuel efficiency  by 16 percent, Boeing said.  ‘Joe Sutter’s Oldsmobile’  “We had during that meeting the famous words, ‘Guys, just
do it,” Buchholz, executive vice president for the airline’s
fleet management, said before the 747-8 was shown to the
audience. “We are pleased because ‘just do it’ is behind the
curtain.”  The aircraft Buchholz saw yesterday was painted red, orange
and white instead of Boeing’s traditional blue, which was
intended to convey vibrancy, said  Pat Shanahan , general manager
of commercial airplane programs.  “This certainly isn’t Boeing blue, but this isn’t Joe
Sutter’s Oldsmobile either,” Shanahan said, referring to the
leader of the engineering team on the first 747, about 40 years
ago. “This is a new airplane, and we wanted a new livery.”  The 747-8’s wingspan stretches more than 224 feet, about 13
feet longer than the earlier model, the 747-400. The aircraft is
propelled by GEnx-2B67 engines, built by  General Electric Co .,
which are made with about 30 percent fewer parts, reducing
maintenance. The cruising speed is about Mach 0.86, or about 86
percent of the speed of sound.  ‘Teething Problems’  Boeing is optimistic about a pickup in sales, Lund said.
Development of previous aircraft shows they sell well at
launch, drop off while in production and flight testing, then
improve once the plane proves itself in the market, Lund said.  Boeing has climbed 6.9 percent to $72.14 on the New York
Stock Exchange since Guggenheim Aviation Partners LLC canceled
orders for two 747-8 freighters in January. That outpaces a 4
percent gain on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index while trailing
an 8 percent gain by the 12-member S&P Aerospace and Defense
Index.  The original 747 had its share of teething problems and yet
went on to become one of the most successful programs in
aerospace history, said Doug Runte, managing director at Piper
Jaffray & Co. in  New York . Runte said he’s looking for a greater
diversity of customers, higher orders and a successful
production rampup.  “Early teething problems can both be forgiven and
forgotten,” Runte said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Daley in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  