-- 
Cameron Defends Big Society as Unions, Charities Attack Cuts

-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 
2011-02-14T11:12:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/cameron-denies-u-k-volunteer-initiative-is-a-cover-for-cuts.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron 
defended his “Big Society” project today, saying that “social
recovery” needs to happen alongside Britain’s economic revival.  “I’m not going to back down from what I believe in just
because of a few bad headlines,” Cameron said in a speech in
central London. “The Big Society is my mission in politics.
It’s what I want us as a country to build together. And I’m
going to fight for it every day because the Big Society is here
to stay.”  The initiative to let local communities and voluntary
organizations operate public services has come under attack from
charity bosses, unions and the opposition  Labour Party . They
argue that the plan is a cover for government spending cuts.  The reductions may decimate the existing volunteer base,
Elisabeth Hoodless, who is standing down as executive director
of the Community Service Volunteers charity, said last week.  Labour leader  Ed Miliband , writing in the Independent on
Sunday newspaper yesterday, said the Big Society program cloaks
an “ideological” desire to shrink the size of the state.  “The most worrying thing about the Big Society is that the
prime minister truly believes that polices of slash, burn and
sack will make all our lives better, and not just for those for
whom he is planning tax cuts,”  Brendan Barber , secretary
general of the 6 million-member  Trades Union Congress , said in a
statement.  ‘Make Me Unpopular’  Cameron’s coalition of Conservatives and Liberal Democrats
is preparing to push through the deepest spending cuts since
World War II to eliminate a budget deficit of 10 percent of
economic output. The premier said he had a “duty” to repair
the public finances. “It will make me unpopular, I recognize
that,” he said.  Cameron recalled a key theme of his 2010 election campaign
by describing Britain as a “broken society” after 13 years of
Labour government under  Tony Blair  and  Gordon Brown .  “I think our broken society comes back to one word:
responsibility,” he said. “Put simply, there’s not enough of
it. Too many people have stopped taking responsibility for their
lives and for the people around them.”  The Big Society program “is all about is giving people
more power and control to improve their lives and communities,”
Cameron said. “It’s not a cover for anything. It’s a good thing
to try and build a bigger and stronger society, whatever is
happening to public spending.”  The government will announce this week details of a
transition fund to help charities compete for state contracts
for the first time, Cameron wrote yesterday in the Observer
newspaper.  It will also set out plans for a “Big Society” bank to
provide working capital for local groups, he wrote. The bank
last week received a pledge of 200 million pounds ($320 million)
from the largest U.K. lenders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in  London  at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 