-- 
McCain Says ‘We Should Have Seen This Coming’ in Egypt

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-02-13T19:41:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/mccain-says-we-should-have-seen-this-coming-in-egypt-update1-.html
Senator  John McCain  said the U.S.
should have foreseen the unrest in Egypt after years of failed
efforts to push the Arab world’s most populous nation toward
democratic reform.  Acknowledging the benefit of hindsight, the senior
Republican on the Senate Armed Services Committee said Egyptian
public anger toward ousted President  Hosni Mubarak  had been
evident since a widely contested 2005 election.  “We should have seen this coming when the Egyptian
government failed to move forward with a process of
democratization,” McCain, of  Arizona , said on the CBS “Face
the Nation’ program. “The last election was particularly
flawed.”  House SpeakerJohn Boehner said the failure of U.S.
intelligence officials to anticipate the Egyptian crisis
requires a “reassessment” to evaluate what might be done
differently.  “I think what happened in Egypt, what happened in  Tunisia ,
has surprised everyone including our intelligence officials,”
Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said on NBC’s “Meet the Press”
program. “And so I think there’s going to be a reassessment of
why, why didn’t we have a better feel for this.”  Both Republican leaders generally endorsed President  Barack Obama ’s handling of the Egyptian crisis. McCain, who lost the
campaign for the White House to Obama in 2008, said the
president “has handled this situation well” since the crisis
erupted more than two weeks ago.  ‘Very Bad Signal’  Even so, he criticized Obama for not speaking out more
forcefully when Iranians protested against their government’s
elections in 2009.  “That sent a very bad signal to all of these
dictatorships,” McCain said.  “We should have spoken up for
them, just as  Ronald Reagan  spoke up for the people behind the
Iron Curtain.”  McCain joined other Republican lawmakers on the Sunday talk
shows in urging Egyptian leaders to take their time building
democratic institutions before holding elections that risk the
rise of the Muslim Brotherhood -- a group that has historically
opposed U.S. interests.  “We don’t want this revolution hijacked by an extremist
organization,” McCain said.  ‘True Will’  Republican  Senator Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina  told
CNN’s “State of the Union” program, “I worry that we’ll rush
to an election where the Muslim Brotherhood, who is the most
organized but doesn’t represent the true will of the Egyptian
people, will have a disproportionate effect.”  Former Minnesota Republican Governor Tim Pawlenty, who is
considering a presidential run next year, criticized Obama for
not explicitly declaring his opposition to the Muslim
Brotherhood during an interview with Fox News Channel’s  Bill O’Reilly  a week ago.  “They asked him two or three times and the president of
the  United States  ducked the question whether he thought it was
a good or a bad idea whether the Muslim Brotherhood should be
running  Egypt ,” Pawlenty said on ABC’s “This Week” program.
“I’m telling you: It’s a bad idea.”  Obama, during the Super Bowl Sunday interview on Fox, said
the Muslim Brotherhood has “strains of their ideology that are
anti-U.S.”  He declined to take a firm stance on the group’s
potential role in a future Egyptian government, saying, “It’s
important for us not to say that our only two options are either
the Muslim Brotherhood or a suppressed Egyptian people.”  Not Dictating Direction  While McCain said he is “concerned” about the Muslim
Brotherhood, he said, “for us to dictate what the role is they
should play may be harmful to us.” Egyptians, he said, “want
us to assist. They don’t want us to dictate.”  Graham said he is worried about whether the Egyptian army
will cede power to a new civilian-led government, particularly
if there are calls to hold Mubarak and other ex-leaders
accountable for past abuses.  “That will create friction among the army because a lot of
the generals in this army have lived pretty well during the
Mubarak era,” Graham said.  “I worry about the army,” he said later. “Will the army
hold together? Will the young officers accept the rule of the
senior people? Will the army really subordinate itself to
civilian control as this new democracy unfolds?”  John Negroponte, a former United Nations ambassador who was
the first U.S. director of national intelligence, said the
Egyptian military needs to show progress in moving the country
toward democracy, though it doesn’t need to hold elections by
September, as originally planned.  “I don’t think they have to feel bound by a strict
deadline,” Negroponte said on  CNN . “I think the important
thing is that they engender enough confidence with the Egyptian
people that the Egyptian people think that the military wants
the same outcome as they do, and that the military just isn’t
acting according to some hidden agenda of its own.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  