-- 
Chile Inflation Is Bank’s Top Task, De Gregorio Says

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-02-13T15:00:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/chile-central-bank-s-top-task-is-controlling-inflation-de-gregorio-says.html
Controlling inflation is the most
important task for  Chile ’s central bank, bank President Jose De Gregorio said today in a speech in  Jerusalem .  De Gregorio announced a $12 billion plan last month to buy
dollars in a bid to weaken the peso and boost reserves. The
program, coming at the same time as a rise in global commodity
prices, has led to an increase in inflation expectations.  The central bank, which has raised its benchmark interest
rate more than any other major institution tracked by Bloomberg
in the past 12 months, held the rate unchanged at 3.25 percent
last month. The median forecast of 13 economists in a Bloomberg
survey is that it will be increased to 3.5 percent on Feb. 17.  The risk of high oil and food prices spreading to other
products “has to be mitigated,”  De Gregorio  said. “This is
most needed in economies like Chile, that are operating close to
full capacity. Controlling inflation is the best contribution
that monetary policy can do to ensure sustained economic
progress.”  Chilean two-year breakeven inflation, a measure of traders’
expectations for the average annual inflation rate during the
next 48 months, reached a two-year high of 4.31 percent on Feb.
7, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The central bank
targets inflation of 3 percent over a two-year horizon.  Emerging Markets  De Gregorio said buying dollars for reserves entails
“significant costs” and measures to control the appreciation
of emerging-market currencies would only work temporarily,
according to slides from his presentation posted on the website
of the Chilean central bank.  Long-term measures are needed to foster economic
competitiveness as currencies rise, increasing the costs of
exporting from emerging-market economies, he said. The peso
capped a third straight weekly gain on Feb. 11 and has already
recovered most of the ground it lost in the week after De
Gregorio announced his dollar-buying plan.  “Although there is the possibility of  capital controls ,
their long-term efficacy must be carefully evaluated,” he said.  The bank should leave its benchmark rate unchanged this
month to avoid an influx of money into Chile, Guillermo Calvo,
an economics professor at  Columbia University  in  New York , told
La Tercera newspaper in an interview published today. To raise
the rate would be to commit hara-kiri, he is quoted telling the
newspaper.  The bank should live with slightly higher inflation due to
an increase in global food prices, he said. Raising rates and
buying dollars to weaken the peso are two incompatible policies,
he said.  Calvo was chief economist of the  Inter-American Development
Bank  for five years until 2006. Former Chilean Finance Minister
Andres Velasco was once his teaching assistant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Harry Maurer at 
 hmaurer@bloomberg.net . 