-- 
Raonic Ends Canada's 16-Year ATP Tour Drought; Clijsters Loses Paris Final

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-02-14T05:20:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/clijsters-defeated-in-straight-sets-by-kvitova-in-paris-soderling-victory.html
Milos Raonic beat top seed  Fernando Verdasco  in the SAP Open final to become the first Canadian in
16 years to win a title on the men’s tennis circuit.  Raonic, 20, saved four set points in the opening set
yesterday before winning his first ATP World Tour final 7-6 (8-
6), 7-6 (7-5) in San Jose, California. Spain’s Verdasco has now
lost nine of his 14 tour finals.  Raonic, who reached the round of 16 at last month’s
Australian Open as a qualifier, is the first Canadian to win on
the ATP Tour since Greg Rusedski in Seoul in 1995. He’s also the
youngest Tour winner since  Marin Cilic  took the 2008 New Haven
title one month shy of his 20th birthday.  “I hope I can keep this going,” Raonic said in comments
posted on the tournament’s  website . “At this level, to go
through a whole week without losing a match is great. I’ll
always remember this.”  Australian Open champion  Kim Clijsters , who will today
reclaim the No. 1 ranking in women’s tennis, lost in straight
sets against Petra Kvitova in yesterday’s GDF Suez Open final.  The 27-year-old Belgian, who won her previous two matches
against the Czech, was beaten 6-4, 6-3 in about an hour in Paris.  Clijsters ensured her return atop the WTA tour rankings,
displacing Denmark’s  Caroline Wozniacki , for the first time
since March 2006 following a quarterfinal victory three days ago.  Elsewhere, Slovakia’s Daniela Hantuchova won her first
title in almost four years with a 6-0, 6-2 victory against Sara Errani of Italy in the Pattaya Open in Thailand.  Robin Soderling retained his Rotterdam title with a 6-3, 3-
6, 6-3 defeat of  France ’s Jo-Wilfried Tsonga. The Swede has now
won all four of his meetings with Tsonga.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net 
James Cone in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 