-- 
Credit Suisse, Kuoni, Sulzer, Zurich, UBS: Swiss Equity Preview

-- B y   T o m   M u l i e r   a n d   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-02-14T07:43:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/credit-suisse-sulzer-zurich-financial-swiss-equity-preview.html
The following is a list of companies
whose shares may have unusual price changes in Zurich. Stock
symbols are in parentheses after company names. Share prices are
from the last close.  The  Swiss Market Index  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies rose 0.8 percent to 6,665.22 in Zurich.  AFG Arbonia-Forster Holding AG (AFGN SW): The maker of
heaters, windows, doors and refrigeration systems will name a
new chief executive officer by March 8, Neue Zuercher Zeitung
reported, citing the company’s chairman and current CEO Edgar
Oehler. The stock rose 1.7 percent to 35.50 Swiss francs.    Credit Suisse Group AG  (CSGN VX): Switzerland’s second-
biggest bank said it was issuing about 6 billion francs ($6.17
billion) of contingent capital to satisfy higher capital
requirements in Switzerland to Qatar Holding LLC and Olayan
Group.  The shares lost 1.2 percent to 41.60 francs.    Kuoni Reisen Holding AG  (KUNN SW): The travel company’s
2010 sales probably rose to about 4 billion Swiss francs, CEO
Peter Rothwell told SonntagsZeitung. The stock fell 0.3 percent
to 445 francs.    Sulzer AG  (SUN SW): The world’s second-largest maker of
pumps is starting negotiations as it considers acquisitions to
expand in pumps and surface treatments, CEO Ton Buechner told Le
Temps. Sulzer would prefer takeovers of companies worth 200
million Swiss francs to 500 million francs to expand in emerging
markets, the newspaper cited the CEO as saying in an interview.
The stock rose 1.8 percent to 136.9 francs.    Swisscom AG  (SCMN VX): Switzerland’s biggest
telecommunications company said it’s discussing the timing of
Anton Scherrer’s departure as chairman and his replacement by
Hansueli Loosli. The move was planned for April 2011. Swisscom
shares added 0.4 percent to 430.90 francs.    UBS AG  (UBSN VX):  Switzerland ’s largest bank said Sally
Bott, the board member who decided not to stand for re-election,
resigned with immediate effect to take a position at another
company. Helmut Panke will act at interim chairman of the human
resources and compensation committee after her departure.  Separately, UBS aims to double the workforce at its China
operations to as many as 1,200 people over the next five years,
said the co-head of the company’s Asia-Pacific unit. The shares
increased 0.1 percent to 18.42 francs.  Zurich Financial Services Ltd. (ZURN VX): The insurer is
confident it could raise funds for an acquisition on the capital
markets should the need arise, Finanz & Wirtschaft reported,
citing Chief Executive Officer Martin Senn. The stock rose 1.3
percent to 267.9 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  David Merritt  at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 