-- 
Points Wins at Pebble Beach, Helps Bill Murray to Golf `Cinderella Story'

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-02-14T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/d-a-points-wins-pga-tour-s-pebble-beach-pro-am-with-comedian-bill-murray.html
D.A. Points collected his first U.S.
PGA Tour win at the  Pebble Beach  National Pro-Am and helped his
amateur partner, actor and comedian  Bill Murray , to a golfing
“Cinderella story” of his own.  Points shot a 5-under-par 67 during yesterday’s final round
at Pebble Beach Golf Links in Pebble Beach,  California , to
finish at 15-under-par 271 for the tournament, two shots better
than  Hunter Mahan .  Points, 34, also teamed with Murray for a two-shot win in
the pro-am portion of the tournament, which was first hosted in
1937 by singer Bing Crosby. Murray -- who reprised his bumbling
greenskeeper character Carl Spackler from the 1980 movie
“Caddyshack” on the 18th green -- won for the first time since
he started playing and entertaining crowds at the 1992 edition.  “I knew that the only chance D.A. had to win was if I
could make it through the entire week without ever asking him
what the initials D.A. stood for,” Murray said. “I didn’t, and
he’s the champion.”  Points, a four-time winner on the second-tier Nationwide
Tour, took the lead for good by holing his approach shot for an
eagle at the par-5 14th hole. He threw his club in the air and
ran over to exchange a chest bump and hug with Murray. Points,
winless in his 127 previous  PGA Tour  starts, receives $1.13
million, a two-year playing exemption on golf’s top tour and an
invitation to the Masters Tournament.  “Pebble Beach may be the most iconic place in America to
play golf and to win here is just a dream come true,” said
Points, whose initials stand for Darren Andrews.  ‘Kept Me Loose’  Murray, 60, has for years been one of the event’s most
visible amateur participants, frequently interacting with fans
and entertaining crowds with his jokes and antics.  After Points hit his tee shot at the par-3 17th hole
yesterday, Murray offered him ice cream from a nearby concession
cart he raided.  “I was expecting him to be more of a distraction than he
was,” Points said in a news conference. “He taught me to go
ahead and have a little more fun and in turn, it distracted me
from trying so hard. It kept me loose.”  Murray is widely known to golfers for his Spackler
character, who used explosives to rid a golf course of a gopher
in “Caddyshack” and whose most famous lines came as he took
swings at flowers outside the clubhouse.  “Cinderella story,” he says. “Outta nowhere. A former
greenskeeper, now, about to become the Masters champion. It
looks like a mirac...It’s in the hole! It’s in the hole!”  Murray, who has a 13 handicap, uttered similar lines
yesterday before his final putt and then joked afterwards about
turning professional. Murray previously won a pro-am event on
the seniors’ tour at Pebble Beach with partner Scott Simpson.  “The whole last two holes were kind of an out of body
experience,” Murray said. “I didn’t know how to be
particularly funny or a particularly good golfer. I just managed
to get sort of like stumble in, and I knew I had to sort of get
out of the way.”  Previous notable amateur winners of the tournament include
Hall of Fame football player  Dan Marino , actor Andy Garcia and
musician Kenny G.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  