-- 
Mideast Shares Rise After Mubarak Departure, Led by Etisalat; Ampal Gains

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 
2011-02-13T12:58:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/dubai-shares-gain-paced-by-emaar-dana-gas-as-egypt-chaos-concern-eases.html
Middle East shares gained, sending
Abu Dhabi’s stock index to the highest in a month, as Egyptian
President Hosni Mubarak’s resignation bolstered investor
optimism. Israeli stocks rose the first time in four days.    Dana Gas PJSC , a fuel producer with operations in the North
African country, jumped 4.5 percent. Emirates Telecommunications
Corp., the telephone-service provider with a unit in Egypt,
climbed to the highest in more than three months as full-year
earnings topped estimates. The  ADX General Index  increased 0.6
percent to 2,727.71, the highest since Jan. 13, at the 2 p.m.
close in Abu Dhabi. Israel’s TA-25 Index advanced 0.6 percent at
2:38 p.m. in  Tel Aviv .  “Investors have now been assured that in the short term
there will not be chaos in Egypt,” said Sebastien Henin, who
helps oversee $110 million at The National Investor in Abu
Dhabi. “Names with exposure to the country are gaining. We
should have a strong week across the region.”  Mubarak on Feb. 11 ceded power to the military after an 18-
day popular revolt that left about 300 people dead, according to
United Nations estimates. Egypt’s military vowed a transition to
democracy “as soon as possible” and indicated the country will
honor its peace treaty with Israel.  The Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, which has said it
won’t be a replacement for a legitimate government, will keep
the current cabinet in office during the transition process, a
military spokesman said yesterday on state television. U.S.
stocks gained Feb. 11, with the Standard & Poors 500 Index
rising 0.6 percent. The  MSCI World  Index increased 0.2 percent.  November High  Dana Gas, a fuel producer with most of its output coming
from Egypt, jumped to 70 fils. Etisalat climbed 0.9 percent to
11.2 dirhams, the highest since Nov. 1. Etisalat reported 2010
net income of 7.63 billion dirhams ($2.1 billion), topping the
median of four analyst estimates for a profit of 7.57 billion
dirhams, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Egypt’s Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, headed by
Field Marshal Mohammed Hussein Tantawi and Chief of Staff
Lieutenant General Sami Hafez Enan, promised in a statement to
honor all international and regional treaties signed by the
North African nation.  Israeli Concerns  “The resignation of Mubarak raises a lot of questions for
Israel in the near and long term,” said Saar Golan, a trader at
Clal Finance Brokerage Ltd. in Tel Aviv. “In the immediate
term, however, the Egyptian military statement that it is
committed to honor international agreements led to a nationwide
sigh of relief.”  Israeli  government bonds  rose for a fourth day, pushing the
yield on the benchmark Mimshal Shiklit note due January 2020
down 1 basis point to 5.03 percent.    Ampal-American Israel  Corp., which owns a 12.5 percent
stake in Egyptian gas supplier East Mediterranean Gas Co.,
gained 2.5 percent to 7.84 shekels.  Demonstrations began in Egypt on Jan. 25, inspired by an
uprising that ousted Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali
on Jan. 14. Egypt’s stock exchange delayed its opening until
Feb. 16 to allow companies to disclose the effects of the
protests on operations. The benchmark  EGX 30 Index  tumbled 16
percent in the week ended Jan. 27.  Dubai’s  DFM General Index  gained 0.4 percent. Qatar’s  QE
Index  increased 0.7 percent, Oman’s  MSM30 Index  rose 0.6 percent
and Bahrain’s BB All Share Index added less than 0.1 percent.
The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index  of Gulf stocks advanced 0.1 percent.
Kuwait’s SE Price Index dropped 0.3 percent and Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index  slipped 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  