-- 
Trevor Bayne Becomes Youngest Daytona 500 Winner, Day After 20th Birthday

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-02-20T23:35:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/earnhardt-jr-takes-daytona-500-pole-on-10th-anniversary-of-father-s-death.html
Trevor Bayne held on for the final
two laps to become the youngest winner of the Daytona 500 in his
second  Nascar  Sprint Cup series start.  It’s the first time a driver has won in his debut at the
stock-car league’s marquee event, dubbed “Great American
Race,” since Lee Petty won the first edition in 1959.  Bayne, whose 20th birthday was yesterday, drove the 208-lap
race in 4 hours, 2 minutes, 59 seconds. Carl Edwards was second
and David Gilliland finished third at the  Daytona Beach ,  Florida ,
track. The previous youngest winner was 25-year-old Jeff Gordon
in 1997.  “I’ve never been to a race track with this many people
here and to win on this kind of platform is incredible,” Bayne
said in a televised interview. “I didn’t know how to get to
Victory Lane.”  Dale Earnhardt Jr., on the 10th anniversary of his father’s
death on the final lap of the race, crashed out six laps from
the end. Earnhardt Jr., who won Nascar’s marquee race in 2004,
had to start from the back of the grid after taking the pole
position a week ago because he wrecked his race car during
practice this week.  Racegoers commemorated the Feb. 18, 2001, death of Dale Earnhardt Sr. by standing in silence while raising three fingers
during the third lap of the race. Earnhardt died from head
injuries following the final-lap crash.  Known as “The Intimidator,” Earnhardt Sr.’s 1998 win at
Daytona was one of 76 in his career. His seven championships are
tied for the all-time record with Richard Petty.  In addition to Bayne’s records, the 53rd Daytona 500 set
new marks for the most cautions and lead changes, at 16 and 74
respectively.  Bump Drafting  The 2.5-mile (4 km) track was repaved for the first time
since 1979. That created the spectacle of pairs of cars hurtling
around nose to tail at speeds approaching 200 mph (322 kph) in a
speed-generating tactic known as bump drafting. Last year, the
race was twice stopped for a total of almost 2 1/2 hours to
repair a pothole in the pavement.  Such drafting maneuvers -- which increase the risk of
engines overheating in the trailing car because of restricted
air intake -- led to a series of crashes.  Kurt Busch led the 43 cars going into the tribute to
Earnhardt Jr. and a lap later his younger brother Kyle Busch
spun off after being pushed from behind by Michael Waltrip.
Busch called Waltrip’s maneuver “stupidly insane” on his in-
car radio before rejoining the race.  15-Car Crash  On lap 30, David Reutimann’s Toyota spun while being pushed
from behind, also by Waltrip. That caused a 15-car collision
that forced defending Sprint Cup champion Jimmie Johnson, who’s
seeking a sixth straight Nascar championship, back to his garage
for repairs to his  Chevrolet . The melee left Johnson 20 laps
behind the leaders, while Waltrip failed to rejoin the race.  Matt Kenseth slammed into an outside wall and out of the
race with 66 laps remaining in another drafting incident, and
seven laps later Greg Biffle’s Ford clipped Juan Pablo Montoya’s
Chevrolet to bring up the 11th caution.  The record-setting 12th caution began with 42 laps to go
after Travis Kvapil’s Ford struck a wall. Racing stopped for a
15th time after another drafting error with four laps to go, as
Kurt Busch slammed into the back of Regan Smith’s car, sending
it spiraling into the outside wall and taking three other cars
with him.  When racing resumed on lap 202, Earnhardt Jr. spun into the
wall after Ryan Newman swerved into Martin Truex Jr. before
striking the wall.  After the safety car left the track for the final time,
Bayne held off Edwards, Gilliland, Bobby Labonte, who was fourth,
and Kurt Busch, who finished fifth, to give the Woods Brothers
Racing team their fifth Daytona 500 win and first since David
Pearson in 1976.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 