-- 
Egypt Bills Yield at Two-Year High on Growth Concern

-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-02-14T09:50:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/egypt-plans-to-auction-1-1-billion-of-bills-first-since-mubarak-resigns.html
Egypt bond yields were at the
highest in two years at the country’s first debt auction since
the ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak  amid investor concern
about the economic effects of 18 days of demonstrations.  The Ministry of Finance sold a combined 6.5 billion pounds
($1.1 billion) in 91-day and 266-day bills at a sale yesterday.
The three-month bills yielded an average 10.95 percent compared
with 10.97 percent at last week’s sale, the highest since
February 2009. Global depository receipts of  Orascom
Construction  Industries, the country’s biggest publicaly traded
builder, surged the most in two weeks in  London  today.  “The yields will stabilize or reverse direction to become
a little lower” in the short- and medium-term, said Walaa Hazem, who helps run about $1 billion in equity and fixed-income
as vice president for asset management at Cairo-based investment
bank HC Security & Investment Co. A widening budget deficit and
the likelihood of a drop in economic growth will prevent yields
from falling “significantly,” he said.    Egypt ’s Minister of Finance Samir Radwan said today the
country’s budget deficit will widen to as much as 8.4 percent
from 7.9 percent as spending increases and economic growth
slows. He said in a Feb. 12 interview economic growth may drop
to 4 percent in the fiscal year through June from 5.1 percent in
the previous 12 months. The  International Monetary Fund 
estimated before the unrest began that the country’s economy
would expand 5.5 percent in 2011, more than twice the 2.5
percent growth rate the IMF forecast for developed countries.  Sawiris  An increase in public spending may push the budget gap to
“double digits” in 2011, compared with 8.1 percent in the
fiscal year that ended in June,  Standard & Poor’s  said Feb. 1
after lowering the country’s credit ratings by one level to two
below investment grade.  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors
Service also cut Egypt’s ratings.  Naguib Sawiris, the chairman of  Orascom Telecom Holding
SAE , said in an interview with Bloomberg television he is
concerned about capital outflows from Egypt. The central bank
intervened to support the Egyptian pound last week. The pound
was little changed at 5.8780 at 11:21 a.m. in Cairo.  ‘High Yields’  Egypt’s dollar bonds due 2020 reversed losses after
Mubarak’s resignation on Feb. 11 sending the yield down 15 basis
points, or 0.15 percentage point, to 6.35 percent on Feb. 11.
That’s still higher than the low for 2011 of 5.16 percent on
Jan. 4. The yield was little changed today at 6.34 percent.  The yield on the 266-day bills in yesterday’s auction rose
to 11.68 percent, the highest in two years, from 11.66 percent.  “Considering the current risk, it’s normal for investors
to continue to demand high yields,” Moustafa Assal, managing
director of Cairo-based Beltone Financial’s fixed income unit,
said yesterday. “I don’t expect yields to shoot up to the 15
percent level unless we see more instability or problems with
liquidity. They should remain relatively high in the short
term.”  Egypt’s Army dissolved the country’s parliament and
suspended the constitution yesterday, saying it will rule for
six months or until general elections are held. The military in
a statement promised to honor all international and regional
treaties signed by the North African nation. Egypt has a peace
accord with  Israel  that dates from 1979.  Egypt Bourse  Egypt’s bourse, closed for more than two weeks, will open
Feb. 16 to allow companies to disclose the effects of protests
on their business. The country’s benchmark stocks index tumbled
16 percent in the week before the suspension.  The stock exchange will give companies a chance to divulge
“all information about their financial and operational
situation, which will give investors the ability to evaluate the
latest developments and take the appropriate investment
decisions,” the Cairo-based exchange said Feb. 12. Feb. 15 is a
public holiday.  GDRs of Orascom Construction advanced 6.5 percent, the most
since Feb. 1, to $39.91. Orascom Telecom, the country’s largest
mobile network operator by subscribers, gained 3.2 percent to
$3.402, the highest intraday level since Feb. 2.    Telecom Egypt , the country’s monopoly fixed-line telephone
service provider, plunged 13 percent, the most since March, to
$13.61. The company said yesterday it approved a 15 percent pay
raise for its workers.  ’Back to Normal’  EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, Egypt’s biggest publicly traded
investment bank, distanced itself from the former president’s
son,  Gamal Mubarak , saying his involvement in the firm is
limited to an 18 percent stake in a subsidiary that contributes
7 percent to its income. EFG’s GDRs were little changed since
Jan. 27 after paring a drop of as much as 5.6 percent on Feb.
11.  “We are starting to get back to normal, but there are
still a few twists and turns along the road,” Wael Ziada, head
of research at EFG-Hermes, said in a telephone interview. “The
entity ruling today has to send a very strong message that Egypt
is committed to reforms, that there will be reforms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net 
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  