-- 
Egypt Army Suspends Constitution, Promises Elections

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-02-14T12:31:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/egypt-constitution-suspended-parliament-dissolved-military-council-says.html
Egypt’s ruling army council said it
aims to hand power to a democratically elected government within
six months, after almost three weeks of popular unrest ended 30
years of autocratic rule by President  Hosni Mubarak .  The Supreme Council of the Armed Forces yesterday dissolved
parliament, suspended the constitution and said it would rule
until general elections take place. The council also formed a
committee to introduce constitutional changes, according to a
statement read on state television yesterday.  Protesters want the amendments to make it easier to run for
president, set  term limits  on the presidency and cancel the
constitutional authority for anti-terrorism measures such as
arbitrary arrest, searches and military tribunals. Mass
demonstrations forced Mubarak to cede power to the army on Feb.
11, throwing into question the future course of a key U.S. ally.  “It’s a positive sign that they canceled the parliament
and suspended the constitution,” Michael Hanna, a fellow at The
Century Foundation in  New York , said. “I think from here there
needs to be one firm timetable set.”  The plan to hand power to a democratically elected
government helped boost global stocks. The MSCI Emerging Markets
Index advanced 1.1 percent at 6:35 a.m. in New York, as the
Shanghai Composite Index climbed 2.5 percent. The Stoxx Europe
600 Index added 0.3 percent, while Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
futures lost 0.1 percent.  Egyptian Companies  Orascom Construction Industries, Egypt’s biggest publicly
traded builder, rose 3.7 percent in London trading. Orascom
Telecom Holding SAE, the Middle East’s biggest mobile network
operator by subscribers, gained 3.2 percent. Commercial
International Bank, the largest lender, jumped 5.5 percent.
Egypt’s dollar bonds due 2020 were little changed with the yield
at 6.35 percent at 12:41 p.m. in Cairo. They fell 15 basis
points, or 0.15 percentage point, on Feb. 11.  Egypt’s stock exchange, shut for more than two weeks,
extended a trading suspension by at least two days to Feb. 20
after the central bank yesterday ordered banks to close today.  Egypt ’s benchmark stocks index tumbled 16 percent in the week
before the suspension.  Capital Outflows  Naguib Sawiris, chairman of Orascom Telecom Holding, said
he is concerned about capital outflows from Egypt as a result of
the unrest, “but it will be temporary until people see real
democratic regime and see a return of normality.” He spoke today
in a phone interview on Bloomberg Television.  Sawiris was a member of an informal committee that
negotiated with Vice President  Omar Suleiman  about a gradual
transfer of power by Mubarak before the leader resigned.  Prime Minister Ahmed Shafik said yesterday he’ll
concentrate on restoring security following more than two weeks
of protests and that further unrest may harm the economy. The
military council said Shafik’s government would continue to run
the affairs of the government until a new one is formed.  “We are focused on the security situation and returning
security to the people who have felt its absence,” Shafik, a
former  air force  general named as premier by Mubarak on Jan. 31,
said at a Cairo press conference.  No Timetable  Sameh Shoukry, Egypt’s ambassador to the U.S., said the
country doesn’t yet have a timetable for lifting emergency law.
Military leaders will end the measure “as conditions
stabilize,” Shoukry said on ABC’s “This Week With Christiane
Amanpour” program.  The army cordoned off the remaining protesters in Cairo’s
Tahrir Square, as it seeks to restore order. The army and
military police were preventing people from joining about 50
protesters still in the square who vowed to stay there until
authorities meet their demands for the immediate lifting of the
state of emergency, the release of political prisoners, a rapid
transfer of power to a civilian presidential council, and a new
government to run the country until elections.  Traffic began to flow again into the square. The army tore
down some of the tents used by demonstrators to camp out there.  The protests left at least 300 people dead, according to
the  United Nations , roiled financial markets worldwide and sent
yields on Egyptian bonds higher. The North African country’s
economy lost $310 million a day during the unrest, Finance
Minister Samir Radwan told reporters in Cairo. The economy may
need a stimulus package to help create jobs, he said Feb. 12.  The economy may grow between 3.5 percent and 4 percent this
fiscal year, Radwan said.  A total of 18 artifacts disappeared from the Egyptian
Museum during the demonstrations and riots, including two
statues of King Tutankhamun,  Zahi Hawass , head of the Supreme
Council of Antiquities, said on his website.  The army and police are looking into the matter with people
in custody, Hawass said. The missing objects include a gilded
wooden statue of Tutankhamun carried by a goddess and a separate
statue of the king, also of gilded wood.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  