-- 
Egypt Sells $1.1 Billion Bills, First Sale Since Mubarak Ouster

-- B y   A h m e d   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-02-13T13:55:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/egypt-sells-1-1-billion-in-bills-in-first-offering-after-mubarak-s-ouster.html
  Egypt  sold 6.5 billion Egyptian
pounds ($1.1 billion) of treasury bills in the North African
country’s first auction after the resignation of  Hosni Mubarak .
The yields held around the highest levels in two years.  The Ministry of Finance auctioned 3 billion pounds of 91-
day bills yielding an average 10.95 percent compared with 10.97
percent at the previous sale, the highest since February 2009.
The yield on the 266-day bills rose to 11.68 percent, also the
highest in two years, from 11.66 percent, according to central
bank data on Bloomberg. Last week’s sale took place amid
demonstrations seeking the president’s ouster.  “Considering the current risk, it’s normal for investors
to continue to demand high yields,” said Moustafa Assal,
managing director of Cairo-based Beltone Financial’s fixed
income unit. “I don’t expect yields to shoot up to the 15
percent level unless we see more instability or problems with
liquidity. They should remain relatively high in the short
term.”  Mubarak ceded power to the military on Feb. 11 as a popular
revolt swept away the leader of the Arab world’s most populous
state. The military vowed a transition to democracy “as soon as
possible.” The government raised 3.5 billion pounds from the
sale of 182-day bills on Feb. 10.  Global stocks gained after Mubarak’s resignation, with the  Standard & Poor’s 500  rising 0.6 percent and the MSCI World
Index increasing 0.2 percent on Feb. 11. Persian Gulf stocks
advanced today, sending  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index  up 0.6
percent to 2,727.71, the highest since Jan. 13 at the 2 p.m.
close in the emirate. Egypt’s bourse, which has been shut since
the end of trading on Jan. 27, will open Feb. 16.  ‘Back to Normal’  “We are starting to get back to normal, but there are
still a few twists and turns along the road,” Wael Ziada, head
of research at Cairo-based investment bank EFG-Hermes Holding
SAE, said in a telephone interview before the auction. “The
entity ruling today has to send a very strong message that Egypt
is committed to reforms, that there will be reforms.”  The yield on Egypt’s 5.75 percent dollar bond due 2020
dropped 15 basis points to 6.35 percent on Feb. 11, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost of insuring government debt
against default fell 16 basis points to 322 at the close in  London , according to CMA prices for credit-default swaps.  Information  The stock exchange will give companies a chance to divulge
“all information about their financial and operational
situation, which will give investors the ability to evaluate the
latest developments and take the appropriate investment
decisions,” the Cairo-based exchange said. The bourse said last
week it planned to resume operations today.  About 50 investors demonstrated in front of the exchange
Feb. 10, asking for the suspension to continue on concern that
political instability may affect their holdings, the bourse
said. The country’s benchmark stock index tumbled 16 percent in
the week ended Jan. 27.  Egypt’s exchange will cut the trading hours by one to three
and suspend the so-called daily discovery session, it said Feb.
8. Feb. 15 is a public holiday in Egypt to mark the birthday of
Islam’s  Prophet Muhammad .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  