-- 
Egypt Government Crafts Stimulus Plan to Jump-Start `Sudden Stop' Economy

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-02-14T12:04:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/egypt-government-crafts-stimulus-plan-to-jump-start-sudden-stop-economy.html
Ashraf Abdel-Wanis had plenty of
reasons to join tens of thousands of fellow Egyptians in their
successful push to oust President  Hosni Mubarak . At 39, he last
worked five years ago in a sugar factory and now gets by mainly
on his wife’s $50 monthly salary and his mother’s pension.  “The Egyptian family’s nutrition consists of beans,
lentils and beans,” he said in an interview in Cairo’s Tahrir
Square, the plaza at the heart of almost three weeks of
protests. “If they’re lucky, they cook vegetables once a
week.”  Now with Mubarak gone, the plight of Abdel-Wanis and the 40
percent of his countrymen near the poverty line is prompting
Finance Minister Samir Radwan to develop a stimulus plan aimed
at creating the jobs needed to avoid further social unrest. His
plan also will need to compensate for domestic and foreign
businesses that shy away from investing until the military
council’s transitional rule ends.  “There’s a need for a stimulus package that’s very closely
related to employment,” Radwan, a former senior economist at
the Geneva-based International Labor Organization, said in a
Feb. 12 telephone interview. “There are at least three sectors
that can do the trick: industry and manufacturing, tourism and
agriculture,” he told Bloomberg Television in a separate
interview aired today.  Wider Deficit  The spending will probably widen  Egypt ’s budget deficit
from last year’s 8.1 percent of gross domestic product and raise
the government’s borrowing costs, according to Alia Moubayed, an
economist at London-based  Barclays Capital , and Mona Mansour, a
research director at investment bank CI Capital in Cairo. The
yield on the government bond maturing in April 2020 jumped to a
record 7.2 percent last month. Policy makers may see these as
acceptable trade-offs to bring down unemployment of about 9
percent, one of the sparks for the uprising.  “It’s critical that once the political process is clearer,
that the economy recovers in order to deliver growth and jobs,”
said Mohamed El-Erian, the son of an Egyptian diplomat and chief
executive officer at  Newport Beach , California-based Pacific
Investment Management Co. “We should not be obsessed just with
the politics,” even though that’s “crucial,” he said.  “We should also be thinking about what it takes to restart
an economy that has been subjected to a dramatic sudden stop,”
El-Erian said.  Lost Revenue  The turmoil has cost the nation about $1.5 billion of
tourism revenue, according to Central Bank Governor Farouk El- Okdah. It has also forced companies to close and sent the
currency skidding to a six-year low. Before Mubarak’s
resignation, the benchmark EGX30 Index tumbled 16 percent in one
week. The bourse has been closed since Jan. 27.  The  Institute of International Finance  in  Washington  has
cut its forecast for Egyptian economic growth in this fiscal
year to 1.5 percent from 6.1 percent, it said Feb. 4. It
predicts the budget gap will rise to 9.5 percent of GDP, rather
than decline to 7.9 percent. Radwan said that the gap may widen
to 8.4 percent of GDP, while economic growth may slow to 4
percent from 5.1 percent in the previous year.  While 9 percent unemployment is the same as the current
U.S. rate, economists at Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in a
Feb. 4 report that it disguises considerable underemployment
because a relatively small part of the working-age population
actually has a job.  Youth Unemployment  The headline rate also masks joblessness for about 50
percent of people under 25, the economists said. Youth
unemployment was a trigger for a revolt in  Tunisia  last month
that removed President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali from office on
Jan. 14 and gave impetus to Egypt’s anti-Mubarak movement.  Radwan said any new fiscal plan should include a “massive
and realistic employment program” that would use “funds and
wealth at the command of the state to attract the private
sector.”  Among Radwan’s first initiatives since taking office last
month was to create a 5 billion ($850 million) Egyptian pound
fund to compensate people who lost property during the unrest
and to pay benefits for those who became unemployed because of
the crisis. He also gave permanent contracts to as many as
600,000 government employees who were classified as temporary
workers and “basically had no rights,” he said. The ministry
financed the steps with “savings from the budget” without
affecting the deficit, he said.  Borrowing Cost  Government stimulus efforts aren’t new to Egypt. The
administration of former Prime Minister  Ahmed Nazif , whom
Mubarak fired in January in a failed attempt to end the
protests, passed two such plans in the last two fiscal years
with a total value of 25 billion Egyptian pounds. They helped
offset a slowdown in private investment, which fell to 48
percent of total investment in the 12 months through June 2009
from 65 percent a year earlier during the global financial
crisis, according to government  data .  Fresh spending will come at a cost for the government, said
Barclays economist Moubayed. The average yield on six-month
Treasury bills surged to 11.78 percent at an auction last week,
the highest level since January 2009. The average yield on 91-
day treasury bills was little changed at 10.95 percent yesterday
at the first auction after Mubarak’s departure.  “Given the turmoil that the Egyptian economy has gone
through, we cannot but expect a bigger deficit as the government
attempts to jump-start” growth, Moubayed said. “We expect
yields on local debt to rise, thus increasing the cost of
domestic borrowing.”  Investment Pause  Foreign investment, a main driver of economic growth in the
past five years, may take a “pause” in the next six months as
investors await the economic policies of the military council,
said Mansour at CI Capital. Greater stability after Mubarak’s
departure may nevertheless boost sentiment, she said.  The military council yesterday suspended the constitution,
dissolved parliament and said it will rule the country for a
“temporary period” of six month or until parliamentary and
presidential elections. The government of Prime Minister Ahmed Shafik will remain in place until a new cabinet is appointed.  The cost of insuring Egyptian government debt fell 13 basis
points to 324 after Mubarak’s resignation on Feb. 11, according
to CMA prices for credit default swaps, tumbling from as high as
379 basis points earlier in the day. The  Market Vectors Egypt
Index ETF , an exchange-traded fund that holds Egyptian shares,
gained 4.5 percent in  New York , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Create Certainty’  The government must make investors “feel comfortable in
order that Egypt may continue to attract the capital it needs to
grow,” said Sven Richter, London-based managing director of
frontier markets at Renaissance Asset Management, an investment-
management company. “It will now be important that the
government create as much certainty as possible.”  More certainty is also important to Abdel-Wanis, the father
of six who celebrated Egypt’s new beginning in Tahrir Square.
“For five years I have been looking for my day’s food, and
finally I found people to stand with,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  