-- 
Emergency Medical Said to Be Near $3.1 Billion Sale to Clayton Dubilier

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   L i s a   R a p a p o r t
-- 
2011-02-14T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/emergency-medical-said-to-be-near-3-1-billion-sale-to-clayton-dubilier.html
  Emergency Medical Services Corp . is
near an agreement to be acquired by private-equity firm Clayton
Dubilier & Rice LLC in a leveraged buyout valued at about $3.1
billion, three people familiar with the matter said.  Directors of the  Greenwood Village , Colorado-based
ambulance company planned to vote on the offer yesterday and
announce it today, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the matter is private. Talks may still break
down.  EMS, the largest U.S. operator of ambulance services and
provider of emergency-room doctors, said Dec. 14 it was looking
at strategic alternatives. Directors had pushed for higher bids
from Clayton Dubilier and runner-up Bain Capital LLC. The Deal
first reported the winning bid yesterday.  Clayton Dubilier may pay about $70 a share, the people
said. That would be less than the company’s $70.66 closing price
on Feb. 11 on the New York Stock Exchange. The final sales price
may be $3 billion to $3.1 billion, one of the people said.  Deborah Hileman, a spokeswoman for EMS, didn’t return calls
seeking comment late yesterday. A spokesperson for Clayton
Dubilier also didn’t respond to calls.    Goldman Sachs Group Inc . and  Bank of America Corp . are
running the sales process, the people said. Clayton Dubilier
isn’t working with another private-equity fund, the people said.  ‘Fair Price’  “This is a very fair price for this company,” said  Arthur Henderson , an analyst with Jeffries & Co. in Nashville, in a
telephone interview yesterday. “There wasn’t a strategic buyer
that was big enough to buy EMS, and for private equity buying
for the  cash flow  this price makes sense.”  The U.S. health-care overhaul passed last year, designed to
give millions of uninsured Americans taxpayer-subsidized medical
coverage, made EMS an attractive takeout target, Henderson said.
The company’s ambulance and emergency staffing and management
units may both profit from the overhaul, he said.  “There’s money to be made in making all of this more
efficient and that would be appealing to any private equity
buyer,” Henderson said. “I expect to see a lot more
consolidation in  health services , nursing homes, and long-term
care. The number of competitors is going to get smaller and the
ones that survive are going to get bigger.”  Private-equity firms had announced 397 pending or completed
acquisitions of U.S. health products and services companies in
the past five years, with an average size of $449.4 million and
a typical premium of 30 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg as of Feb. 10. The biggest was the 2006 leveraged
buyout of hospital operator HCA Inc. for about $33 billion, led
by firms including New York-based KKR & Co. and Bain, which is
based in  Boston .  ‘Deep Pockets’  Private equity firms, which raised at $50 billion to $80
billion in health industry deals from 2006 to 2010, “have very
deep pockets right now and will be looking to do more deals in
this space,” said Dawn Brock, an analyst with Kaufman Bros. in  New York , in a telephone interview yesterday.  “Unless you believe there will be a wholesale repeal of
health reform, which I don’t think anybody does, there will be
some scenario where there are more covered bodies and more
paying customers than you have right now,” Brock said.  EMS’s ambulance unit had 2009 revenue of $1.34 billion and
its emergency physician business reported 2009 sales of $1.23
billion. EMS may report 2010 revenue of $2.86 billion, according
to the average estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  EMS shares fell 3 cents to $70.66 on Feb. 11 and have
gained 29 percent in the past year. The shares rose the most in
five years on Dec. 14 after the company said it was “reviewing
various strategic alternatives.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 Lrapaport1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net 
Jennifer Sondag in New York at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  