-- 
EU, IMF Regret Dispute With Greek Government Over Asset Sales

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-02-13T09:43:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/eu-imf-regret-dispute-with-greek-government-over-asset-sales.html
The European Union,  International
Monetary Fund  and  European Central Bank , overseers of a bailout
of  Greece , expressed regret for a dispute that arose after
officials told the government to increase asset sales.  “Our three institutions have full respect for the
prerogatives and initiatives of the government in all areas of
economic decision-making, and our role is to advise and support
the government,” they said in an e-mailed joint statement
received from the Washington-based IMF. “It is regrettable if a
different impression was perceived at any time.”  Greece’s government yesterday criticized demands from EU
and IMF officials for proceeds of state asset sales to rise to
50 billion euros ($67 billion) from a previous estimate of 7
billion euros, calling them “unacceptable.” The country is the
recipient of a 110 billion-euro bailout, led by the EU, aimed at
averting a debt default.  Prime Minister George Papandreou spoke by phone with  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , managing director of the IMF, and Olli
Rehn, EU commissioner for economic and monetary affairs, to
complain, according to e-mailed statements from the prime
minister’s office.  Poul Thomsen, head of the IMF’s Greece mission, and the
EU’s Servaas Deroose told reporters on Feb. 11 the country’s
fiscal adjustment plan was on track and that emphasis should be
placed on structural changes such as a tax-system overhaul and
asset disposals to pay down debt. They were in Athens to review
Greece’s progress under the bailout.  Approval of the country’s efforts would ensure payment of
the plan’s next installment of 15 billion euros in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen@bloomberg.net  