-- 
Euro Weakens Before Finance Ministers Meeting; Kiwi Slides on Retail Sales

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-02-14T12:43:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/euro-falls-third-day-versus-dollar-before-factory-output-data-kiwi-slides.html
The euro dropped versus most of its
major counterparts on speculation a meeting of European finance
ministers will struggle to bridge differences over conditions
for expanding the region’s bailout fund.    Europe ’s single currency fell for a second day against the
yen as Ireland’s main opposition party said it wants to
renegotiate details of the country’s bailout and  Greece 
criticized demands from the European Union and  International
Monetary Fund  for sales of state assets. New Zealand’s dollar
fell as a report showed retail sales declined.  “Most investors in the euro zone would like to feel that
the Greek and Irish situation has been put behind them, and
obviously that’s not true,” said  Simon Derrick , chief currency
strategist at Bank of New York Mellon Corp. in  London . “The
weakness in the euro is consistent with that.”  The euro fell 0.8 percent to 112.21 yen as of 7:41 a.m. in  New York . The single currency also declined 0.8 percent versus
the dollar, to $1.3443. The yen was little changed at 83.46 per
dollar from 83.43.  The euro extended its declines after Reuters reported that
a rescue plan for WestLB AG, the German state-owned bank bailed
out during the financial crisis, may founder.  “The WestLB situation is something that’s ongoing,” said  Steve Barrow , the London-based head of research for Group-of-10
currencies at Standard Bank Plc. “It’s not a shock, but
nonetheless, in a market that’s turning more bearish on the
euro, the bears are going to use it for all it’s worth.”  Deficit Targets  Enda Kenny, leader of Ireland’s largest opposition party,
Fine Gael, yesterday said senior bank bondholders should share
the cost of bailing out the country’s financial system. He said
a new government would seek to renegotiate details of the
international bailout after Feb. 25 national elections.  Greek government spokesman  George Petalotis  said demands
for asset sales to raise as much as 50 billion euros by 2015 to
pay down debt were “unacceptable.”  The nation last week also joined  Italy  in opposing annual
numerical debt-reduction targets. Greece, which required
financial aid last year to help counter its widening deficit,
said the proposed rule would force it to make unsustainably
large cuts once its support package runs out in 2013, according
to a draft of EU legislation.  European finance ministers will meet to review the rules
today and tomorrow in Brussels.  Disappointed Investors  Greece will probably have to restructure its debt as
interest payments rise, Lars Feld, who is joining  Germany ’s
council of economic advisers next month, told  Sueddeutsche
Zeitung  in an interview published today.  A separate European summit on March 11 aimed at resolving
the region’s debt crisis in peripheral economies will probably
disappoint investors, according to Standard Life Investments,
Scotland’s second-biggest fund manager.  “It would be quite difficult to meet expectations, as they
appear to be high at the moment,” Euan Munro, head of fixed
income, said in an interview on Feb. 10.  The yield on Portugal’s 10-year bond rose six basis points
to 7.37 percent. The rate reached 7.64 percent on Feb. 10, the
highest since the euro’s introduction in 1999.  “The recent surge in Portuguese bond yields is a bad
sign” for the country’s borrowing costs, said  Yuji Saito ,
director for the foreign-exchange department at Credit Agricole
Corporate and Investment Bank in Tokyo. “The euro’s weakness is
likely to persist.”  Pound Gains  The franc rose for the first day in seven versus the euro
as investors sought the safety of Switzerland’s currency,
strengthening 0.8 percent to 1.3084.  The pound appreciated 0.7 percent to 84.08 pence per euro.
Reports this week may show consumer price inflation is gathering
pace, reinforcing expectations that the  Bank of England  will
raise  interest rates . The central bank publishes its quarterly
inflation report on Feb. 16. Sterling was little changed versus
the dollar at $1.6004.  The yen advanced for the first time in almost two weeks
versus the dollar on speculation Japanese companies bought the
currency to bring home overseas earnings before Japan’s fiscal
year ends in March.  “There’s talk of Japanese firms buying the yen, possibly
related to fiscal year-end repatriation,” said  Masanobu Ishikawa , general manager of foreign exchange at Tokyo Forex &
Ueda Harlow Ltd., Japan’s largest currency broker. “The recent
slide in the yen may be attractive to them.”  U.S. Redemptions  Japan’s large manufacturers expect the yen to average 86.47
per dollar this fiscal year through March 31, the highest since
the Bank of Japan’s Tankan business-confidence survey included
the yen-forecast question in 1996. That compares with the 89.66
predicted in September, the survey showed Dec. 15.  Japanese companies may also bring home funds from their
overseas bond holdings. The U.S. will make $45 billion in
redemption and coupon payments for Treasuries tomorrow,
according to estimates by Stone & McCarthy Research Associates
in Princeton, New Jersey.  New Zealand’s currency fell for a fourth day versus the
dollar. Retail sales declined 1.1 percent in December from the
previous month, when they rose a revised 1.2 percent, Statistics  New Zealand  said today in Wellington.  Swaps traders are betting the  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand
will raise its benchmark interest rate by 52 basis points over
the next 12 months, down from 55 basis points last week,
according to a Credit Suisse AG index.  The  New Zealand dollar  declined 0.8 percent to 75.48 U.S.
cents, and dropped 0.7 percent to 63.02 yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 