-- 
FARC to Release Three Colombian Hostages in Effort to Initiate Peace Talks

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-02-13T14:38:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/farc-to-release-three-colombian-hostages-in-effort-to-initiate-peace-talks.html
  Colombia ’s biggest rebel group said
it will today free the final two of five hostages it promised in
December to release from jungle hideouts, plus an additional
hostage announced yesterday.  A Brazilian military helicopter bearing the  International
Red Cross  emblem took off from Ibague airport in central Tolima
province to three secret locations where members of the
Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, known as FARC, will hand
over to an international humanitarian mission Mayor Guillermo
Solorzano, held since 2007, soldier Salin Sanmiguel, seized in
2008, and policeman Carlos Ocampo, kidnapped in Dec. 2010, whose
release was announced yesterday. Two councilmen and a navy
marine were freed earlier this week.  The liberations come as the FARC, whose numbers have been
whittled by eight years of military attacks, called on the
government to seek dialogue. President  Juan Manuel Santos 
earlier this week criticized the FARC’s “double standards”
after the rebel group kidnapped two employees of  Smurfit Kappa
Group Plc ’s Colombia unit on Feb. 8, one day prior to the
release of councilman Marcos Baquero.  “The FARC is sending a clear message it wants to start
moving toward peace talks with the government,” said Juan
Carlos Palou, an analyst at Bogota-based think-tank Fundacion
Ideas Para la Paz. “These releases are viewed not as an act of
generosity but as something the FARC has to do in order for the
possibility of a dialogue to even exist.”  Unilateral Effort  The handovers, brokered by former Senator Piedad Cordoba,
who is banned from holding office because of alleged FARC ties,
will complete a unilateral effort by the FARC announced almost
three months ago. The drug-funded group has said the releases
serve as evidence it’s serious about seeking a political end to
almost five decades of armed conflict.  “To even consider the possibility of dialogue we require
decisive actions,” said Santos  on Feb. 7 . “They must stop
terrorism, kidnapping, drug trafficking, extortion and
intimidation. Colombians call for, demand, the immediate release
of all hostages.”  The FARC hold an additional  16 captives  -- including Jose
Martinez, kidnapped more than 13 years ago -- that it considers
bargaining chips to pressure the government into releasing as
many as 500 jailed FARC fighters. It also kidnaps for ransom and
kills hostages if troops approach their camps or attempt a
rescue.  Santos yesterday said the piecemeal liberations have become
 an “absurd media show.”  His administration will “revise the policy of allowing
these drop-by-drop liberations,” said Santos. “The country
doesn’t want that and neither does the government.”  New Rescue  Colombia’s army yesterday rescued one of the two Smurfit
Kappa Group workers kidnapped earlier this week, Bogota-based El
Tiempo daily said, citing General Edgar Cely, head of the
nation’s armed forces.  The government’s policy of stepped-up attacks on the rebels
and paying informants has been central to the offensive against
the FARC, whose numbers have been reduced by more than half to
about 8,000 since 2002, when former President  Alvaro Uribe  took
office, according to Defense Ministry data.  The FARC’s ability to maintain dozens of captives in jungle
camps has been hindered by the attacks, according to testimony
from former captives like  Ingrid Betancourt , kidnapped while
campaigning for president in 2002 and rescued along with 14
other hostages in 2008.  The FARC, which is considered a terrorist organization by
the U.S. and the European Union, was founded in 1964 as a rural,
peasant, Marxist insurgency. Its founder, Manuel Marulanda, died
in 2008 of a heart attack.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Murphy in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  