-- 
China Snow Fails to Ease Drought as Wheat Advances to Highest Since 2008

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-14T09:42:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/fighting-china-drought-still-arduous-task-even-as-snow-falls-agency-says.html
Snowfalls in  China ’s major wheat-
growing regions failed to ease a drought, a government agency
 said . Wheat prices climbed to the highest level since August
2008 in  Chicago  and to a record in Zhengzhou.  The dry spell is likely to continue to affect crops as the
weather is getting warmer and the winter wheat needs large
amounts of water when turning green, Chen Lei, deputy director
at the State Flood Control and Drought Relief Headquarters, said
in a statement posted on its website on Feb. 12.  The country “faces an arduous task of fighting drought,”
Chen said. “Enhanced efforts of irrigation, recent rain and
snowfalls helped prevent the drought spreading in some winter-
wheat growing areas.”  China, the biggest grains consumer, will spend 12.9 billion
yuan ($2 billion) to fight the dry spell and boost grain output,  China Central Television  said on Feb. 10, citing Premier  Wen Jiabao . Wheat for May delivery advanced as much as 1.8 percent
to $9.15 a bushel today, the highest level for the most active
contract since Aug. 22, 2008, while in Zhengzhou the price rose
as much as 3.7 percent to 3,110 yuan ($471) per metric ton.  “Much more precipitation is needed before the spring
growing season,”  Luke Mathews , a commodity strategist at
Commonwealth Bank of  Australia , said in a report e-mailed today.  Wheat Purchases  About 42 percent of the total area planted with wheat in
China’s eight major producing provinces has been hit by the dry
spell that may last into the Chinese spring, Minister of
Agriculture Han Changfu said last week.  As of Feb. 10, the drought had affected 6.75 million
hectares of crops, leaving 2.8 million people and more than 2.5
million livestock short of drinking water, the state-run Xinhua
News Agency said. Rain on the North China Plain has been
“substantially” below normal since October, the United Nations
Food and Agriculture Organization said on Feb. 8.  Drought could force China, largely self-sufficient in wheat,
to buy more from overseas, according to  Jason Britt , the
president of Central States Commodities Inc., a broker in  Kansas
City , Missouri last week.  Snowfall tomorrow night and on Feb. 16 will bring slight
relief to the parched winter-wheat area, the meteorological
service said. The central and eastern part of the northern China
Plain will receive snow from a weak cold front, it added.  Make or Break  Snow had fallen in drought-hit provinces including Hebei,
Shanxi, Henan, Shandong, Jiangsu and Anhui since Feb. 9, said
the National Meteorological Center. Henan, the top wheat-growing
province, had an average of 5.5 millimeters and some areas got
as much as 23 millimeters, the province’s weather agency said.  Rainfall “can make or break the Chinese wheat crop,” said  Michael Pitts , a commodity sales director at National Australia
Bank Ltd. “If we get rainfall over the next two months, the
problems go away,” he said.  The provinces hit hardest by the drought are Shandong,
Jiangsu, Henan, Hebei and Shanxi. Together, they accounted for
67 percent of Chinese wheat production in 2009, the FAO said on
Feb. 8. China has 14 million hectares planted with winter wheat
in those provinces, of which about 5.2 million hectares may have
been damaged, it said.  China will consume about 17 percent of the world’s wheat in
the year through June, according to data from the London-based
 International Grains Council . The country’s output may have
dropped to 114.5 million tons at the last harvest from 115.1
million tons a year earlier, the U.S. Department of Agriculture
estimates. Macquarie Group Ltd. said it expects output to drop a
further 4 million tons this year.  --Xiao Yu, Feiwen Rong, Luzi Ann Javier. Editors: Andrew Janes,
James Poole  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xiao Yu in Beijing at 
 yxiao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  