-- 
Roland Garros Keeps French Open as Tennis Federation Opts to Stay in Paris

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-02-14T00:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/french-open-tennis-tournament-to-stay-at-roland-garros-organizers-say.html
The French Open will continue to be
played at  Roland Garros  in Paris after the country’s tennis
federation opted to upgrade the existing site rather than move
the tournament outside the city.  Three other projects had been bidding to host the event
from 2016. Paris took 70 percent of the votes over Marne-la-
Vallee in the final round after Gonesse and Versailles were
eliminated, the French Tennis Federation said yesterday. The
upgrade will cost 273 million euros ($370 million), half of what
would have been required to move the clay-court Grand Slam.  By backing Paris City Council’s proposal “to enlarge,
modernize and completely rethink the historic site of Roland
Garros at Porte d’Auteuil, the FFT has chosen a magnificent and
unique project, which will continue to distinguish us from other
major tournaments,” Jean Gachassin, the federation’s president,
said in a statement on the organization’s  website .  The  French Open  has been played on the red clay courts of
Roland Garros, located on the edge of the  Bois de Boulogne  in
the 16th arrondissement of the French capital, since 1928.  Originally covering eight acres of land with five courts,
Roland Garros now has 20 outside courts spread over 21 acres.
Still, it remains the smallest of the four tennis majors, and
players, press and spectators frequently complain about its lack
of space. During multiple rain delays at the 2010 French Open,
thousands of tennis fans found themselves stranded outside,
unable to find cover.  Wimbledon  and Melbourne Park, where the  Australian Open  is
played, each cover close to 50 acres, while the  U.S. Open  has
34.5 acres of land at Flushing Meadows.  Retractable Roof  The upgraded Roland Garros will cover almost 35 acres and
include 35 outside courts, a new 5,000-seat stadium and a new
press center, the federation said. The main Philippe Chatrier
court will be redesigned and feature a retractable roof.  “We are short of space,” French Open tournament director
Gilbert Ysern said in an interview in June. “We strongly
believe that if we do not expand our facilities, we could
endanger the tournament.”  Organizers had been considering alternative venues after
plans announced in the spring of 2009 to build a new 120
million-euro stadium near Roland Garros stalled because of a
lack of consensus among local politicians.  Among the options were: moving the tournament close to the
Palace of Versailles; to a location in Marne-la-Vallee, where
Disneyland Paris is based; or to Gonesse, close to Charles de
Gaulle airport.  Fourth Option  The federation backed a fourth project which was a
variation on the 2009 plan. Under the joint proposal by the FFT
and the mayor of Paris, the existing grounds will be renovated
and a small stadium court built in the neighboring municipal
greenhouses at the Jardin des Serres.  The changes to the plan were approved in November by a
special commission made up of historians, elected officials and
architects. The City of Paris owns the Roland Garros site.  Over the years, the FFT has invested 200 million euros in
the complex. A move away from the current site by 2016 -- when
an agreement with Paris expires -- would have cost about 600
million euros, Ysern said in June. The French Open generates
about 250 million euros annually for the country’s economy,
Ysern said.  Players including top-ranked  Rafael Nadal  of  Spain  had said
they didn’t want the tournament to move.  “Roland Garros should remain here, because here we can
breathe the history of tennis within these walls,” Nadal, a
five-time French Open champion, said during last year’s
tournament. “It’s very important, whereas if we move elsewhere,
maybe the site is going to be bigger, we’re going to lose part
of our soul.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net ;  Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at the London sports desk 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 