-- 
G-20 to Tackle Trade Imbalances With System Employing Economic Indicators

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-02-13T21:40:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/g-20-to-tackle-trade-imbalances-with-system-employing-economic-indicators.html
Group of 20 nations are pursuing a
two-step approach to avoiding a repeat of the economic
imbalances blamed for helping trigger the recent credit crisis
and global recession, according to a European Union document.  Prepared ahead of this week’s meeting of G-20 finance
chiefs in Paris, the report said the EU “strongly supports”
the suggestion made by G-20 officials at a meeting last month to
identify when an imbalance is building using a set of economic
indicators.  The G-20 nations are debating which indicators would be the
best to focus on after having agreed in November to better
monitor if economic imbalances are forming. The next step is to
analyze the causes and perhaps make policy recommendations on
how to deal with them.  “The two-step approach will add structure and focus to the
work of the G-20,” the report said.    France , which is the G-20 president this year, is hoping
this week’s talks will conclude with a list of indicators to
identify and cut trade imbalances, the Financial Times reported,
citing an interview with Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde .
There is still “a combination of political posture and
positioning” taking place, Lagarde said.  Avoiding Credit Crunch  Policy makers are trying to avoid a repeat of the last
expansion when U.S. consumers relied on borrowing from abroad to
finance their purchases, contributing to an export boom from  Asia . As  China  and other Asian nations accumulated dollars from
trade surpluses, they bought U.S. Treasury debt and depressed
global yields. Lower borrowing costs helped stoke the U.S.
housing and credit booms that later turned to bust.  The EU backs the G-20 plan to this week agree on a general
approach and the method for the guidelines, while waiting to
make a fuller assessment when G-20 officials next meet in April
in  Washington , the report said. A draft action plan will be
ready for when finance ministers meet again in October, it said.  The aim of the indicators chosen should be to promote
sustainable current account imbalances, the report said. The EU
will propose monitoring of those gaps as well as government
budget deficits and debt burdens, private debts, savings ratios,
net foreign asset positions, reserve adequacies and real
effective exchange rates. If an indicator starts “flashing”
that an imbalance is emerging then that should be a trigger of
more analysis, it said.  The EU also backed France’s idea for “accountability”
reports to monitor the commitments of G-20 members to promote
growth and the first such study should be delivered by April,
the report said. The  International Monetary Fund  and
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development should be
asked to identify policy steps to healthier expansion, it said.  The EU also is concerned by the increasing use of temporary  capital controls  and wants the IMF to identify the drivers of
capital flows and appropriate responses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  