-- 
IAG Says Insurance Profit Fell, Lowers Margin Forecast

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 
2011-02-14T05:23:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/insurance-australia-s-profit-dented-by-u-k-claims.html
  Insurance Australia Group Ltd . said
first-half insurance profit fell 3.7 percent amid rising claims
for injuries in the U.K. and damage caused by natural disasters,
prompting a cut to its insurance margin forecast.  The preliminary insurance profit for the six months to Dec.
31 dropped to A$470 million ($472 million) from A$488 million a
year earlier, Sydney-based IAG said today. The shares fell the
most in almost seven months after it said the full-year margin
is expected to be between 9 percent and 11 percent, lower than
the 10.5 percent to 12.5 percent range forecast earlier.  While the insurer’s Australian and New Zealand businesses,
which account for more than 90 percent of gross written premiums,
“delivered a strong performance,” profit was affected by a
greater-than-expected loss of A$121 million from its U.K.
operation, Managing Director Mike Wilkins said. Since the
beginning of January, IAG has also incurred claims of around
A$300 million for natural disasters including flooding in
Queensland and this month’s Tropical Cyclone Yasi.  “I’m disappointed to report that bodily injury claim
inflation has continued to affect” the U.K. insurance industry,
Wilkins said in the statement. “This, coupled, with rate
increases taking longer than anticipated to emerge in the non-
private motor classes, has contributed to a greater than
expected loss for this business.”  Shares of IAG slumped 4 percent to A$3.63 at the 4:10 p.m.
close of Sydney trading, taking this year’s decline to 6.4
percent.  The first-half insurance profit represents an insurance
margin of 12.7 percent, down from the 13.4 percent margin in the
year-earlier period, it said today. Gross written premiums are
expected to have climbed 3.2 percent to A$3.94 billion.  IAG will announce its half-year results on Feb. 24 and
plans to provide an update on its businesses and longer-term
strategy June 14, the company said in today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  