-- 
Iraq to Sign Akkas Deal, Review Kurdish Oil Contracts

-- B y   L i n a   I b r a h i m   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-02-13T12:17:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/iraq-says-to-review-kurdish-crude-contracts-sign-delayed-akkas-gas-deal.html
  Iraq , seeking to rebuild its  energy
industry  after years of conflict and scarce investment, will
soon sign a delayed deal for the Akkas natural-gas field and
review production-sharing contracts signed separately by the
semi-autonomous Kurdish region, the country’s oil minister said.  Iraq originally planned to sign the Akkas agreement on Nov.
14 with  Korea Gas Corp ., known as Kogas, and KazMunaiGaz
National Co.,  Kazakhstan ’s state fuel producer. The deal stalled
on concerns by local authorities, who feared the gas from Akkas
would be exported without benefitting nearby communities.  “We will sign the initial agreement with the group of
companies within the coming days,” Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi told
reporters in Damascus today. The contract will then be sent to
the  Council of Ministers  for approval, he said.  Iraq, holder of the world’s fifth-biggest crude reserves,
needs foreign investment and expertise to help ramp up its
energy exports and finance the rebuilding of the economy and
infrastructure. The government has signed 15 licenses for oil
and gas exploration since the 2003 U.S.-led invasion that ousted
former President  Saddam Hussein .  One of the most contentious issues has been oil production
in the Kurdish region, where local authorities angered the
central government by signing their own production agreements
with foreign companies such as  DNO International ASA  of Norway
and  Turkey ’s  Genel Enerji AS . The Oil Ministry refused to
recognize these contracts, and exports of Kurdish oil that began
in June 2009 ended a few months later amid a payments dispute.  ‘Need’ for Review  The ministry plans to review these contracts signed by the
 Kurdistan Regional Government , Luaibi said. “The ministry
maintains the same stand: We have many concerns regarding these
contracts, and they need to be reviewed.”  The Iraqi government and the Kurdistan authorities reached
an agreement on Jan. 22 that led to the resumption of oil
exports on Feb. 3. They pledged to make payments to foreign
producers in the Kurdish area, and Luaibi said they agreed that
the central government’s State Oil Marketing Organization would
handle the oil and gas produced there.  “We also agreed that all revenue should go to the central
Treasury,” he said.  Luaibi and his Syrian counterpart Sufian Alao said they
promised to cooperate on various energy-related projects,
including refineries and the production of phosphate, a
fertilizer ingredient.  Syrian experts will visit Iraq to help survey a defunct
pipeline that once ran from Iraq’s southern oil hub of Basra to  Syria ’s coastal terminal at Banias, Alao said at the news
conference.  “We have an excess production of oil in Iraq which we
could export through Syria,” Luaibi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lina Ibrahim in Dubai at 
 librahim4@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  