-- 
Iraq Names Officials, Leaves Security Appointments Unfilled

-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-02-13T14:52:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/iraq-names-officials-leaves-security-appointments-unfilled.html
  Iraq ’s parliament appointed three
vice-presidents and eight government ministers, while leaving
key security posts vacant because of political disagreements, a
legislator said.  Adel Abdel Mahdi, Tariq al-Hashemi and Khudeir al-Khuzai
were approved today as vice presidents, parliament member
Shulair Aziz said in an interview. The other appointments
included those of Electricity Minister Raad Shalal, Trade
Minister Khairallah Hassan and Municipality and Public Works
minister Adel Mhoder, she said.  The defense, interior and national-security ministerial
slots have remained vacant since Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki
formed his government on Dec. 21. Appointments will be made
“within days,” he told parliament today. The Planning
Ministry’s top job also remains unfilled.  Ibtihal Al-Zaidy became the second female cabinet member
when she was named state minister for women’s affairs, Aziz
said. Dakheel Kassem was named minister for civil society, Amer
Al-Khuzai became minister for national interests, and Abdel
Saheb Kahraman and Jamal al-Bateekh accepted appointments
without portfolios, she said.  More time is needed to reach agreement on the security and
planning appointments, Aziz said, declining to give further
details.  35 Nominees  When the government was formed, Maliki said the portfolios
that remain vacant were awaiting agreement among the nation’s
political groups. Lawmakers then approved a slate of 35
nominees, including a new oil minister and three deputy prime
ministers, representing the country’s main communities of
majority Shiite Muslims,  Sunni Muslims  and Kurds.  The government must contend with security breaches, a
struggling economy and long-standing disputes over internal
boundaries and rights to the country’s reserves of oil, the
world’s fifth-largest, and natural gas.  Iraq wants foreign investors to help boost oil and gas
production. Output has suffered from attacks by insurgents and a
lack of investment since a U.S.-led invasion ousted the regime
of President  Saddam Hussein  in 2003. The U.S. has pledged to
withdraw all troops from Iraq at the end of 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Kadhim Ajrash in Baghdad at 
 kadhimajrash@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at   mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net  