-- 
Italy Women, Enraged by Berlusconi Scandals, Protest

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-02-13T12:10:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/italian-women-enraged-by-berlusconi-sex-scandals-protest.html
Italian women took to the streets
across the country bearing banners that read “Italy is not a
brothel” following the disclosure of details of Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s private life.  The nationwide  female-led protest  takes place after
prosecutors filed a formal request for Berlusconi to stand trial
for alleged abuse of power and for paying a minor for sex.
Supported by the opposition, the event was organized by a non-
partisan women’s group whose members describe themselves on
their Facebook page as “neither desperate, nor housewives.”  “Women in this country are denigrated by the repeated,
indecent and ostentatious representation of women as a naked
sexual object on offer in newspapers, televisions and
advertising,” said protest organizer Ida Poletto, a married
hotel manager who has two sons. “It’s intolerable.”  Thousands of women gathered in Naples, Bari and Palermo,
daily  la Repubblica  reported on its website. Demonstrators are
gathering in about 230 cities across Italy including Rome’s
Piazza del Popolo as well as London, Brussels, Tokyo, Boston and  Athens .  In an opinion poll last week prepared by Ipsos, 61 percent
of respondents said Berlusconi should resign, with 33 percent
saying he should remain in office. The same survey showed that
Berlusconi’s coalition maintained about a 3 percentage point
lead over the biggest opposition bloc, a similar margin to that
of an IPR poll released Feb. 2.  Ruby Heart Stealer  A Milan court is investigating Berlusconi’s relationship
with Karima El Mahroug, a Moroccan national and part-time
nightclub performer nicknamed Ruby Heart Stealer who attended at
least one party at his Milan mansion in February 2010, when she
was 17. The allegations of abuse of power stem from his role in
helping secure her release from police custody in Milan after
she was detained in May on unrelated theft charges.  Berlusconi, who says he has never paid for sex, has said he
didn’t know that El Mahroug was a minor and denied pressuring
police to release her. He said he had only phoned to help a
young woman in a “tragic situation.”  The scandal, referred to by the Italian press as Ruby-Gate,
has  revived calls  by Berlusconi’s political opponents for him to
step down after his conservative government survived a no-
confidence motion in parliament on Dec. 14 by three votes. The
case threatens to erode his support among Catholics and women,
and a student-led protest in December turned violent.  Feminism Forgotten    Italy ,  dubbed  by British writer Tobias Jones as “the land
that feminism forgot,” ranked 74th out of 134 countries in a
World Economic Forum  Gender Gap  Index, lagging behind Malawi and  Kazakhstan . With the exception of  Malta , Italy has the  lowest
ratio  of working women in the European Union, 46 percent.  Few women hold positions of power in Italy. In politics,
while a woman served once as foreign minister, not one has ever
held a higher ministerial portfolio than health or education. In
business, women fill about 7 percent of Italy’s corporate-
management positions, compared with an average of 30 percent to
35 percent in other developed nations, a 2010 study by research
firm Gea-Consulenti Associati showed.  Fininvest SpA Chairwoman Marina Berlusconi, the prime
minister’s oldest daughter, is ranked 33rd on Forbes Magazine’s
list of the world’s 100 most powerful women. She’s the only
Italian featured on the list.  Berlusconi this month gave Daniela Santanche and Michela Vittoria Brambilla, two female members of his government, the
task of pulling together a campaign to counter attacks against
him from the media and the prosecutors.  Santanche said in a Feb. 9 interview with Il Giornale,
which is controlled by Berlusconi’s brother Paolo, that the
prime minister “loved women” and his companies have employed
thousands of women, including mothers and graduates.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  Rome  at  fjackson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 