-- 
Nokia's Ice Castle Melts as `Boring' Phones Force R&D Cuts

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n   a n d   M e h u l   S r i v a s t a v a
-- 
2011-02-14T12:02:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/nokia-s-ice-castle-melts-as-boring-phones-force-r-d-cuts.html
Last November,  Nokia Oyj  researchers
north of Helsinki  chain-sawed  a one-ton block of ice into 50-
centimeter slabs and mounted them with infrared cameras to trace
heat trails left by hands. Their goal: to study touch screens.  The “whimsical experiment,” inspired by  Finland ’s
tradition of ice sculptures, was conducted by the Nokia Research
Center’s Tampere branch, its  website  says. Together with
projects such as building an  electronic nose , stretchable
electronic skin and sending anthropologists to Indian villages
to  observe  rural mobile-phone use, it gave Nokia what analysts
say is a bloated devices research and development budget.  At $4 billion a year, it is more than twice Apple Inc.’s
entire $1.78 billion R&D budget. At least a third of it goes to
Symbian and MeeGo platforms that Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop said last week Nokia is retreating from in favor of  Microsoft Corp .’s Windows Phone 7. Elop plans “substantial”
R&D spending cuts as he struggles to claw back ground lost to
Apple’s iPhone and  Google Inc .’s Android-based devices.  “There’s a lot of fat in that research and development
budget,” said Adnaan Ahmad, a London-based analyst at Berenberg
Bank. “They’ve plowed a hell of a lot of R&D money into
competing with the iPhone and Google, but they’ve plowed it into
a technology like Symbian that’s from the 1990s.”  With Nokia using Microsoft’s operating system, software is
one of the ripest fields for the Espoo, Finland-based company to
cut costs and improve productivity. About four-fifths of Nokia’s
18,000 to 19,000 R&D employees are in software, according to
Credit Suisse estimates.  Painful Transition  On Feb. 11, within hours of Elop announcing the switch to
Windows, hundreds of employees walked out in Tampere, where
about half the 3,000 workers are Symbian developers.  “There’s a long and painful transition period ahead,”
said Sami Sarkamies, a Helsinki-based analyst with Nordea Bank.
“Development resources for Symbian and MeeGo will be clearly
reduced and Nokia will be quickly building competencies related
to Windows Phone 7 products.” Based on Nokia’s presentation, it
may be planning to cut R&D costs by about a third, he said.  Symbian-related research costs for Nokia reached about $1.4
billion last year, with more than a third of its 17,200 R&D
workforce assigned to the operating system, according to Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. Apple spent $772 million on the iPhone in
2010, when it introduced the iPhone 4, according to the broker.
Apple’s R&D was 2.7 percent of sales for the year ended
September, while Nokia’s 2010 devices R&D was 10 percent of the
division’s sales.  ‘Visibly Disappointing’  Nokia’s R&D budget for handsets is a third higher than
Samsung Electronics Co.’s, almost double BlackBerry-maker  Research In Motion Ltd .’s and more than twice Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc.’s, Sanford Bernstein estimates. With Nokia Siemens
Networks, Nokia’s total R&D budget was $7.8 billion in 2010,
more than Google’s or International Business Machines Corp’s.  Nokia’s output for that R&D spending is “visibly
disappointing,” Sanford Bernstein analysts  Robin Bienenstock 
and  Pierre Ferragu  wrote in a report this month.  Investors punished Nokia after Elop unveiled his new plan,
with shares dropping 14 percent on Feb. 11, the most in almost
19 months. They fell as much as 4.4 percent today. Since Apple
unveiled the iPhone in June 2007, they have tumbled more than 67
percent. Cutting R&D spending “is seen as a major area of
potential upside for the company,” the analysts wrote.  Nokia will get “billions” in benefits from its
partnership with Microsoft, Elop said in Barcelona yesterday.  “The value transferred to Nokia is measured in the B’s,
not the M’s,” he said, without elaborating.  Not an Experience  Nokia’s R&D budget may have been justified if it were
gaining ground and commanding higher prices. On both fronts it’s
failing. It cut prices, pulling down margins. Fourth-quarter
profit fell 21 percent to 745 million euros ($1 billion).  Since Elop became the first non-Finn to head Nokia on Sept.
21, Google’s Android software has become the biggest smartphone
operating system by shipments, passing Nokia’s Symbian,
according to researcher IDC. Nokia’s share of the fast-growing
smartphone market plummeted to 27.1 percent from 50.8 percent
when Apple shipped its iPhone in 2007, according to Gartner Inc.  Nokia’s R&D was always about a checklist of features, not
an experience the way Apple’s is, says a former Nokia Research
Center developer who didn’t want to be identified because he
still works in the mobile-phone industry. Nokia, which worked
with touch screens and accelerometers years ahead of the iPhone,
couldn’t get them into products, he said.  Nokia’s  research labs  working on leading-edge technology in
far-flung countries were fragmented and not tied to any
particular product group, leaving developers working on
prototypes they knew weren’t going anywhere, he said.  ‘Boring’ Nokia  Nokia’s haphazard efforts resulted in clunky products that
drove customers to easier-to-use devices. Phones running on
Symbian require users to input more keystrokes to perform tasks
such as updating a contact than iPhone and Android phones.  “It’s not a question of the amount of money, it’s how much
you can productize,” says Howard Anderson, who founded Boston
technology consultants The  Yankee Group  and now teaches at MIT’s
Sloan School of Management. “It ought to be called development
and research, because these days it’s more short-term tactical
stuff rather than long term.”  Take  India ’s Micromax Informatics Ltd, which is challenging
Nokia’s leadership in the world’s second-largest mobile-phone
market. Employing 12 people in R&D and using off-the-shelf
technology from Taiwan and  China , it makes cheap phones with
features sought by Indians including slots to insert multiple
SIM cards to carry multiple phone number. One such customer, 28-
year old software engineer Pradip Bakshi, checked out Nokia
phones in New Delhi last week, called them “boring” before
taking off with a $130 Micromax device.  ‘Ahead of the Duck’  Nokia will have to come up with better innovations to
fulfil Elop’s strategy of standing out in the Windows Phone 7
market against Samsung and  LG Electronics Inc ., the world’s
second- and third-largest handset makers. Longer term, he wants
to leapfrog Apple and Android, although can’t say how.  “We have significant investments in the next disruption,
the next wave of mobile innovation,” he said in an interview.
“It’s impossible to say what that disruption will be but we
want to shoot ahead of the duck, to use the Finnish phrase.”  Elop plans to ship one product this year based on MeeGo, a
platform it’s developing with  Intel Corp ., as “an opportunity
to learn” before redeploying MeeGo team members and product
elements to Windows Phone 7 and future platforms. He says the
company needs to explore the frontiers of engineering --“future
materials, future chemicals, all sorts of things that are way in
the future” -- if it is to leapfrog competitors.  Keep Control  “Something like an ice touch screen quickly turns into an
examination of some of the most advanced mechanisms for sensor
detection,” he said. “Sometimes it may seem a bit playful but
in the end it has a direct impact on our long-term plans.”  At the investor meeting in  London , he enthused about adding
better cameras and imaging, “advanced sensors, GPS
accelerometer, gyroscopes” and other hardware to Nokia’s
Windows phones to differentiate them from others.  Some investors say Nokia should stay with a few such
projects and not throw the baby away with the bathwater.  “The danger for Nokia will be if they let Microsoft take
complete control,” said Mario Bellusci, a Milan-based
technology fund manager for Eurizon Capital, which holds Nokia
shares. “If Nokia goes down the Hewlett-Packard route and
starts to drastically cut R&D for short-term profitability, in
the long term they will suffer a lot.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mehul Srivastava in  New Delhi  at 
 msrivastava6@bloomberg.net ;
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Bret Okeson at   bokeson@bloomberg.net  