-- 
Brent Oil Rises on Ongoing Mideast Tension, China Crude Imports

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-02-14T11:49:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/oil-trades-near-10-week-low-after-mubarak-hands-power-to-egypt-s-military.html
Oil extended gains in  London  and
erased earlier losses in New York as protesters planned
demonstrations in Middle Eastern oil-producing nations and after
a report showed that  China  imported more crude.  Brent crude advanced as much as 0.9 percent as China, the
world’s biggest energy consumer, increased net crude-oil imports
to the highest in four months in January as demand for diesel to
operate irrigation equipment in drought-stricken regions rose.
Protestors plan a demonstration today in Iran, OPEC’s second-
largest member, while Algerian opposition parties prepared a
protest on Feb. 19 following a weekend clash with police.  “Support is coming today from China’s import data,” said
Commerzbank AG analyst  Carsten Fritsch  wrote in a note today.
“The resignation of  Egypt ’s president Mubarak has removed one
uncertainly factor from the oil market. That said, there is
still a risk that the wave of protests could spread to other
countries of the region, so the risk premium on  oil prices 
should remain, at least in part.”  Brent crude for April settlement climbed as much as 95
cents to $101.89 a barrel and was at $101.72 at 11:35 a.m. on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London. The contract rose 0.7
percent last week. March futures expired on Feb. 11, up 0.6
percent at $101.43.  West Texas Intermediate for March delivery on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  was at $85.60 a barrel, up 2 cents. The
contract closed at $85.58 on Feb. 11, the lowest since Nov. 30.  North Sea Output  Brent has outpaced  New York  futures, widening the
difference between the prices to a record of more than $16 a
barrel, as unplanned outages cut European supplies. Production
from the North Sea has been reduced by 2 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There have been output issues in the North Sea that have
continued to linger,” said  Victor Shum , a senior principal at
consultants Purvin & Gertz Inc. in Singapore. “Certainly the
concerns about supply disruptions in Egypt have eased. The fear
of contagion to other countries will keep crude supported.”  Chinese net imports reached 21.5 million metric tons, or
5.1 million barrels a day, data from the Beijing-based General
Administration of Customs showed today. Imports were 27 percent
higher than last year and the third-highest monthly level,
according to Commerzbank.  WTI Weakness  WTI had fallen near its lowest in more than 10 weeks after
Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  stepped down on Feb. 11,
reducing concern that civil unrest will disrupt crude shipments
from the Middle East. Last week’s 3.9 percent slide sent the
contract below its 100-day moving average, said  Olivier Jakob ,
an analyst at Petromatrix GmbH in Zug,  Switzerland .  “If WTI cannot regain a close above the 100-day moving
average, then the next significant level of support will move to
the 200-day moving average at $80.75 a barrel,” Jakob wrote in
a note today.  U.S. crude stockpiles rose for a fourth week in the seven
days ending Feb. 4, an Energy Department report last week
showed. Gasoline supplies advanced to the highest level since
March 1990, according to the data. Stockpiles at the
distribution point for West Texas Intermediate in Cushing,  Oklahoma , swelled to a record last month.  “The situation of oversupply at Cushing is increasing the
spread between WTI and Brent,” said Gerrit Zambo, a trader at
Bayerische Landesbank in Munich.  Concerns about the buildup of New York-traded WTI oil
supplies led hedge funds and other money managers to leave the
amount of bullish bets little changed for crude last week.  Net-long positions in oil increased by 442 futures and
options combined, or 0.2 percent, to 202,383 in the seven days
ended Feb. 8, according to data from the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s Commitment of Traders report.  Long, or bullish, bets on gasoline fell 8.3 percent to
59,913 futures and options combined, the CFTC data showed. Net-
long bets on heating oil declined by 2.4 percent to 36,443.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Schmollinger in  Singapore  at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  