-- 
Top Stories: Worldwide

-- B y  
-- 
2011-02-13T00:35:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/top-stories-worldwide.html
The following are the day's top                    
general news stories:                                                            1. Egypt's Ruling Military Vows Move to Democracy, Backs All Peace Treaties    
2. Egyptian Military Pledges Transition to Democracy Under Protesters' Watch   
3. Erdogan, Military Chief Meet After Court Jails 163 Officers for Conspiracy  
4. Obama Says Budget Will Make U.S. `Live Within Its Means,' Invest in Future  
5.  Cleveland Cavaliers  End 26-Game Losing Streak Against Los Angeles Clippers    1. Egypt's Ruling Military Vows Move to Democracy, Backs All Peace Treaties      Egypt´s military vowed a transition to democracy "as soon                 
 as possible" and indicated the country will honor its peace                   
 treaty with  Israel  following the resignation of President Hosni               
 Mubarak. U.S. President  Barack Obama , in talks with foreign                   
 leaders, raised the possibility of international efforts to                   
 provide financial aid to Egypt, whose economy has been hurt by                
 the work disruptions and the loss of tourists during the                      
 pro-democracy turmoil. The Supreme Council of the Armed Forces,               
 which has said it won´t be a replacement for a legitimate                     
 government, decided to keep the current cabinet in office                     
 during the transition process, a military spokesman said                      
 yesterday on state television. The council is headed by Field                 
 Marshal Mohammed Hussein Tantawi, who has been defense                        
 minister. "The Supreme Council of the Armed Forces is confident               
 in the ability of  Egypt ´s people and institutions to get                      
 through these current critical circumstances," the council said               
 in a statement.                                                                 2. Egyptian Military Pledges Transition to Democracy Under Protesters' Watch     Egypt´s military says its control over the country will end               
 with a transition to democratic elections. Protesters in                      
 Cairo´s Tahrir Square say they´ll keep close watch to make sure               
 the promise is kept. The resignation on Feb. 11 of President                  
  Hosni Mubarak  put Egypt in the hands of the Arab world´s                      
 largest armed force, with its Boeing Co. CH-47 Chinook                        
 transport helicopters, Sikorsky Aircraft Black Hawks from                     
 United Technologies Corp. and F-15 fighter jets from Lockheed                 
 Martin Corp. As well as almost 1 million fighting men and                     
 reservists. While the departure of Mubarak was made possible by               
 the army´s refusal to act against hundreds of thousands of                    
 demonstrators over 18 days, bringing the military to power                    
 wasn´t the protesters´ goal. Not since the 1952 revolution that               
 overthrew Egypt´s monarchy has the military intervened directly               
 in politics, raising questions about its ability to oversee                   
 Egypt´s 80 million residents amid political transition. "We                   
 need to hear confirmations that the army will turn power over                 
 to civilians and that there will be a timeline for the required               
 reforms," said Ahmed Maher, a member of an alliance of groups                 
 that called for the protests, in an interview Feb. 12 from the                
 square.                                                                         3. Erdogan, Military Chief Meet After Court Jails 163 Officers for Conspiracy    Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  has met with the head                 
 of Turkey´s armed forces after a court ordered the arrest of                  
 163 military officers, including the former chiefs of the air                 
 force and navy, state-run media said. Erdogan and General Isik                
 Kosaner met today at the prime minister´s office in Dolmabahce                
 Palace in Istanbul, the Anatolia news agency reported. The                    
 talks lasted about 45 minutes, NTV television said. Neither                   
 Erdogan nor Kosaner made a statement afterward. A Turkish court               
 ordered 163 officers jailed yesterday over an alleged military                
 conspiracy to overthrow Erdogan´s government in 2003, Anatolia                
 said. The court sent 134 active-service and retired officers                  
 directly to prison and issued arrest warrants for the others,                 
 Anatolia said. The officers deny the allegations. The                         
 prosecution claims the officers were part of a plot to create                 
 chaos in  Turkey  in order to justify a move against Erdogan´s                  
 government. The plot allegedly included plans to bomb mosques                 
 and assassinate prominent ethnic minorities and religious                     
 leaders.                                                                        4. Obama Says Budget Will Make U.S. `Live Within Its Means,' Invest in Future    President Barack Obama said the 2012 budget he will submit                
 to the  U.S. Congress  in two days will help the U.S. live within               
 its means while making important investments for the future. In               
 his weekly address on the radio and Internet, Obama touted                    
 steps his administration is proposing to help reduce the                      
 federal  budget deficit , which is projected to reach a record                  
 $1.5 trillion this year. "After a decade of rising deficits,                  
 this budget asks  Washington  to live within its means, while at                
 the same time investing in our future," he said. Obama has                    
 already proposed freezing some domestic spending, including the               
 salaries of some federal employees, to save $400 billion over                 
 the next 10 years. He also pledged to eliminate waste in the                  
 budget by vetoing any bill that contains earmarks - - spending                
 projects inserted into legislation by members of Congress.                      5.  Cleveland  Cavaliers End 26-Game Losing Streak Against  Los Angeles Clippers     The Cleveland Cavaliers avoided setting the longest losing                
 streak in U.S. professional sports last night with a 126-119                  
 overtime win against the Los Angeles Clippers in a National                   
 Basketball Association game. The Cavaliers lost 26 consecutive                
 games to set an NBA record, and tie the longest losing streak                 
 held by the  National Football League ´s Tampa Bay Buccaneers in                
 1976 and 1977. Daniel Gibson´s second free throw with one                     
 minute, seven seconds left in overtime gave the Cavaliers                     
 (9-45) a 120-114 lead. Eric Bledsoe´s layup and Randy Foye´s                  
 3-pointer brought the Clippers within one point with 44 seconds               
 left at Quicken Loans Arena in Cleveland. The Cavaliers sealed                
 the victory in the final 22 seconds on a 3-pointer by Antawn                  
 Jamison and free throws by Mo Williams and Gibson. Cleveland                  
 outscored  Los Angeles  16-9 in overtime.                                         -0- Feb/13/2011 00:35 GMT
 