-- 
Top Stories: Business and Finance

-- B y  
-- 
2011-02-13T00:35:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/top-stories-business-and-finance.html
The following are the day's top                    
business stories:                                                                1. U.S. Stocks Rise After Mubarak's Resignation, Gain in  Consumer Confidence    
2. China Says Panel Will Begin Scrutinizing Acquisitions by Foreign Companies  
3. Barclays Said to Reduce Bonuses at Its Investment Banking Division by 15%   
4. U.S. Mortgage Overhaul Plan May Pit Wall Street Against Real Estate Groups  
5. Dollar Advances as Egyptian Turmoil, European Debt Stoke Demand for Safety  
6. Bundesbank's Weber Says Lack of `Acceptance' for Views Led to Resignation   
7. Saudi Arabian Shares Climb as Mubarak Resignation Eases Egyptian Tensions   
8. Pandora Media Seeks to Raise $100 Million in IPO of Internet-Radio Company  
9. Toyota Said to Cut Board by Half in Biggest Management Shake Up in 8 Years  
10.Canadian Currency Strengthens as  Trade Surplus  Buoys Interest-Rate Outlook  
11.Asian Currencies Fall as Global Funds Reduce Holdings on Growth Concerns    
12.Most Read on Bloomberg: Insider-Trading Arrest, Dollar, Sexless Couples       1. U.S. Stocks Rise After Mubarak's Resignation, Gain in Consumer Confidence     U.S. stocks rose for a second week, sending benchmark                     
 indexes to 32-month highs, as takeovers, a rebound in retail                  
 sales and Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak´s resignation                      
 bolstered investors´ optimism. American Express Co. advanced                  
 6.7 percent to lead gains in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .                
 Walt Disney Co. surged 6.6 percent as the world´s biggest                     
 theme-park operator posted higher-than-estimated quarterly                    
 profit. Standard & Poor´s 500 Index consumer companies reliant                
 on Americans´ discretionary spending climbed 3.5 percent as                   
 confidence rose. NYSE Euronext soared 17 percent after saying                 
 it was in talks to be purchased by Germany´s Deutsche Boerse                  
 AG. The  S&P 500  rose 1.4 percent to 1,329.15. The Dow added                   
 181.11 points, or 1.5 percent, to 12,273.26. Both have advanced               
 to the highest levels since June 2008. "While the economy is                  
 doing well and CEOs are becoming more optimistic, the highlight               
 of the week for us was the geopolitical events in Egypt, which                
 couldn´t have worked out much better," said  Philip Orlando , New               
 York-based chief equity market strategist at Federated                        
 Investors Inc., which manages $358.2 billion. "M&A continues to               
 be a positive for the market."                                                  2.  China  Says Panel Will Begin Scrutinizing Acquisitions by Foreign Companies    China plans to create a ministerial panel to review                       
 takeovers of local companies by foreign investors. The panel                  
 will be led by the National Development and Reform Commission                 
 and the Ministry of Commerce and will be overseen by the State                
 Council, according to a statement published today on the                      
 council´s website. Coming under scrutiny will be acquisitions                 
 involving military industrial companies and others relating to                
 national defense, the statement said. It also will look at                    
 takeovers involving producers of agricultural goods, energy and               
 natural resources, as well as companies in some parts of the                  
 infrastructure and transportation-services industries. "Now                   
 foreign-funded M&A in China would be subject to review by a                   
 state-level investment-review authority and can be blocked on                 
 the ground of endangering national security, which may not be                 
 received favorably by international investors," said Hubert                   
 Tse, a Shanghai-based partner at law firm Boss & Young.                         3. Barclays Said to Reduce Bonuses at Its Investment Banking Division by 15%     Barclays Plc, Britain´s third- largest bank, reduced                      
 bonuses for employees of its investment- banking unit, Barclays               
 Capital, by about 15 percent on average, according to three                   
 people with knowledge of the matter. Investment bankers,                      
 traders and analysts at the London- based company were informed               
 of their 2010 awards yesterday, said the people, who declined                 
 to be identified because the information hasn´t been made                     
 public. The firm allocated 2.7 billion pounds ($4.32 billion)                 
 for the payouts last year. Compensation for managing directors                
 will be paid 50 percent in cash and 50 percent in stock that                  
 vests over three years, one of the people said. At the end of                 
 the third quarter, Barclays allocated 2.2 billion pounds ($3.5                
 billion) for bonuses. Earlier this week, Chancellor of the                    
 Exchequer George Osborne announced an agreement with Britain´s                
 biggest banks, including Barclays, Lloyds Banking Group Plc,                  
 HSBC Holdings Plc and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, that                  
 they would pay lower bonuses and boost lending. RBS, the U.K.´s               
 biggest taxpayer-owned lender, cut the amount it set aside for                
 bonuses at its investment banking unit by 27 percent to less                  
 than 950 million pounds, the Edinburgh- based lender said on                  
 Feb. 9.                                                                         4. U.S. Mortgage Overhaul Plan May Pit  Wall Street  Against Real Estate Groups    The Obama administration´s proposal for reducing the                      
 government´s role in housing finance may pit Wall Street                      
 against real estate groups as it restructures the $11 trillion                
 mortgage market. The report released yesterday by Treasury                    
 Secretary Timothy F. Geithner offers three options for                        
 attracting private capital back into housing finance while                    
 shrinking the role played by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the                  
 government-sponsored enterprises that have been sustained by                  
 U.S. aid since September 2008. The debate over the options may                
 create new sets of winners and losers, according to                           
 stakeholders on both sides of the issue. Banking-industry                     
 groups praised the proposals for laying out steps that could                  
 increase their share of a market long dominated by the two                    
 GSEs. At the same time, community banks, real estate agents,                  
 builders and consumer groups that have benefited from the                     
 government support rallied to fight changes that would shift                  
 power to big banks. "The basic thrust of it is that we´ve got                 
 to reduce the federal government´s role in the mortgage                       
 market," said Bert Ely, a banking consultant based in                         
 Alexandria, Virginia. "The challenge is how far can you go in                 
 that direction, how fast can you go, and what should be the                   
 residual government role?"                                                      5. Dollar Advances as Egyptian Turmoil, European Debt Stoke Demand for Safety    The dollar rose against most of its major counterparts as                 
 turmoil in Egypt and concern that Europe´s debt crisis may                    
 worsen fueled investor appetite for safety of U.S. assets. The                
 greenback gained for a third week against the euro amid                       
 speculation Portugal´s funding costs are becoming unsustainable               
 and as Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  stepped down yesterday                
 and handed power to the military. Job data in the U.S. helped                 
 boost appetite for the currency. U.S. retail sales increased                  
 for a seventh month in January, a report next week may show.                  
 "The dollar´s rally was built on safe-haven flows amid unrest                 
 in Egypt and renewed concern about  Europe ´s sovereign debt                    
 crisis," said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in  Washington  at                  
 Travelex Global Business Payments, a currency-exchange network.               
 "The other factor that really supported the dollar was positive               
 U.S. data." The dollar appreciated 0.2 percent to $1.3554 per                 
 euro in  New York , from $1.3581 on Feb. 4. It touched $1.3497,                 
 the strongest level since Jan. 21. The U.S. currency advanced                 
 1.5 percent, the most in five weeks, to 83.43 yen, from 82.18.                
 The euro rose 1.3 percent to 113.06 yen, from 111.62 yen.                       6. Bundesbank's Weber Says Lack of `Acceptance' for Views Led to Resignation     Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  said a lack of "acceptance"               
 among euro-area leaders for his views on monetary policy caused               
 him to give up on becoming the next chief of the European                     
 Central Bank, Der Spiegel reported. Weber, who resigned                       
 yesterday, said his decision not to aim to replace Jean-Claude                
 Trichet as ECB president started forming last May, fueled by                  
 misgivings from "several governments" over his opposition to                  
 the ECB´s program of buying  government bonds . "The president is               
 in an exceptional position," Weber said in an interview with                  
 the German magazine published today. "But if he represents a                  
 minority opinion on important matters, then the credibility of                
 his office suffers." Bundesbank spokesman Benedikt Fehr                       
 confirmed Weber´s remarks by telephone. The loss of the                       
 front-runner for the ECB´s top job leaves European leaders                    
 balancing whether to reward policy experience or protect                      
 national interest in picking Europe´s main monetary official.                 
 Weber said "it´s not so important" what nationality the next                  
 ECB chief has, though he called for Trichet´s successor to be                 
 "credible" and embody a "stability culture."                                    7. Saudi Arabian Shares Climb as Mubarak Resignation Eases Egyptian Tensions     Saudi Arabia´s benchmark stock index advanced to the                      
 highest in two weeks, led by Saudi Arabian Fertilizer Co., as                 
 Egypt´s President Hosni Mubarak stepped down and OPEC raised                  
 its oil demand forecast. Safco, a unit of Saudi Basic                         
 Industries Corp., soared to the highest in more than two years.               
 Mobile Telecommunications Co. of Saudi Arabia climbed after                   
 Bahrain Telecommunications Co. submitted an offer to acquire a                
 stake in the company also known as Zain  Saudi Arabia . The                     
 Tadawul All Share Index gained 0.4 percent to 6,635.86, the                   
 highest level since Jan. 26, at the 3:30 p.m. close in Riyadh.                
 Yesterday, Egypt´s default risk dropped and the North African                 
 country´s bonds rallied. "The de-escalation in Egypt is                       
 improving investor sentiment," said Asim Bukhtiar, an equity                  
 analyst at Riyad Capital in  Riyadh . "Gains in North American                  
 and European markets" are helping Saudi stocks, as well as                    
 signs that OPEC won´t increase oil production in the near term,               
 which should support prices, he said.                                           8. Pandora Media Seeks to Raise $100 Million in IPO of Internet-Radio Company    Pandora Media Inc., the biggest Internet-radio company,                   
 plans to raise as much as $100 million in an initial public                   
 offering, aiming to capitalize on its growing audience and                    
 renewed demand for dot-com investments. Morgan Stanley,                       
 JPMorgan Chase & Co., William Blair & Co. and Stifel Nicolaus                 
 Weisel will handle the IPO, Pandora said yesterday in a filing                
 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The Oakland,                
 California-based company didn´t say how many shares it would                  
 offer or at what price. Founded in 2000 by Tim Westergren under               
 the name Savage Beast, Pandora´s ad revenue surged over the                   
 past two years as its music application became one of the most                
 popular on Apple Inc.´s iPhone and Google Inc.´s Android                      
 devices. Sales more than doubled to $55.2 million in the year                 
 ended January 2010 and then jumped to $90.1 million in the                    
 first three quarters of the following year. The service has                   
 more than 80 million users. "They are almost a household name                 
 at this point," said Brian Zisk, co-founder of the Future of                  
 Music Coalition, a Washington-based nonprofit that advocates                  
 for artists. "The whole concept that you can go out and have an               
 IPO as an Internet music company is a great thing."                             9. Toyota Said to Cut Board by Half in Biggest Management Shake Up in 8 Years    Toyota Motor Corp., the world`s largest automaker, plans to               
 cut its board to at least 17 members from the current 27 to                   
 improve decision-making after a series of product recalls in                  
 its biggest management reorganization in eight years, two                     
 people familiar with the company`s plan said. Toyota currently                
 has 27 directors, including the chairman, president, six                      
 executive vice presidents and 15 senior managing directors. The               
 reduction in the number of board members will include cutting                 
 the number of executive vice presidents, the people said. The                 
 changes are likely to take place as early as April, before the                
 shareholders´ meeting in June, they said. The move, to be                     
 announced by President Akio Toyoda, will be the first since                   
 Toyota more than halved the number of board members to 27 from                
 58 eight years ago to help it speed up decision-making, the                   
 people said. Even as a U.S. economic recovery and rising demand               
 in emerging markets boost demand for Toyota vehicles, the                     
 company said it expects to earn less than a third of the record               
 1.7 trillion yen ($20.4 billion) it made in the year ended                    
 March 2008. Toyota will announce its "2020 vision" in April,                  
 including a medium-term business-reform plan, Toyoda said last                
 month.                                                                          10.Canadian Currency Strengthens as Trade Surplus Buoys Interest-Rate Outlook    The Canadian dollar rose against most of its major                        
 counterparts as an unexpected trade surplus in December                       
 encouraged speculation the Bank of Canada will raise borrowing                
 costs sooner than other central banks. The loonie advanced for                
 a second week versus the yen in the longest stretch of gains                  
 since November as the Egyptian political turmoil that led                     
 President Hosni Mubarak to resign spurred demand for North                    
 American assets. Canada´s currency erased its weekly drop                     
 versus the greenback before next week´s report on inflation as                
 the nation posted its first trade surplus in 10 months while                  
 the U.S. trade deficit widened. "One of the reasons the Bank of               
  Canada  was cautious on raising rates was the trade deficit, but               
 that doesn´t appear to be the case anymore with a huge surge in               
 December," said Blake Jespersen, director of institutional                    
 foreign-exchange sales at Bank of Montreal in Toronto. "You                   
 take away that deficit and you look at the Canadian dollar                    
 fairly stable at par and you have the market starting to price                
 in a hike a little sooner." The Canadian currency advanced 1.5                
 percent to 84.49 yen yesterday, from 83.24 on Feb. 4. The                     
 loonie was little changed at 98.74 cents against the U.S.                     
 dollar, compared with 98.73 cents. The Canadian dollar has                    
 traded stronger than parity with the greenback since Feb. 1.                    11.Asian Currencies Fall as Global Funds Reduce Holdings on Growth Concerns      Asian currencies dropped this week, led by South Korea´s                  
 won, as global funds trimmed holdings of regional shares on                   
 concern economic growth and corporate earnings will be hurt by                
 interest-rate increases. Overseas investors pulled $3.8 billion               
 from stock markets in South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand during                 
 the week, exchange data show. China´s central bank raised                     
 interest rates for the third time in four months, joining                     
  India , Indonesia,  South Korea  and Thailand in having boosted                  
 borrowing costs this year to tame inflation. Vietnam devalued                 
 the dong by about 7 percent yesterday, the most since at least                
 1993, to help rein in the nation´s trade deficit. "What´s been                
 driving currencies lower in Asia is a bit of a sell-off in                    
 equity markets, reflecting concerns of tightening policy and                  
 rising inflation," said Brian Jackson, a Hong Kong- based                     
 senior strategist at Royal Bank of Canada. "People are focusing               
 on higher  interest rates  making it difficult for some companies               
 to borrow and this leads to lower equities and a weaker                       
 currency." The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which                    
 tracks the region´s 10 most-traded currencies excluding the                   
 yen, fell 0.3 percent during the week. The won slumped 2.2                    
 percent to 1,128.47 per dollar and the Singapore dollar slid                  
 0.9 percent to S$1.2851, according to data compiled by                        
 Bloomberg. Malaysia´s ringgit slipped 0.9 percent to 3.0575.                    -0- Feb/13/2011 00:35 GMT
 