-- 
Loving Your Boss on Valentine's Day Lifts Japan's Candy Makers

-- B y   T a k a k o   I w a t a n i   a n d   K a z u y o   S a w a
-- 
2011-02-14T11:29:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/loving-your-boss-on-valentine-s-day-lifts-japan-s-candy-makers.html
For 25-year-old Tokyo office worker
Ryoko Ejiri, Valentine’s Day is about boxes of heart-shaped
chocolates. She’s not getting them from admirers, she has to buy
them for her bosses.  “I’m spending more on chocolates this year than I’ve ever
done in my life,” said Ejiri, who stood in line for an hour at
Isetan department store to buy the confectionery for her four
managers. “I’m offering them gifts to show thanks.”  On Valentine’s Day in Japan, women buy chocolates for male
coworkers rather than husbands and lovers, a tradition called
“giri choco,” or “obligation chocolate.” With Feb. 14
falling on a weekday for the first time in three years, analysts
say that’s a boon for candy makers like Meiji Holdings Ltd.,
Morinaga & Co., and  Morozoff Ltd .  Valentine’s Day-related revenue will rise to a three-year
high of about 40 billion yen ($485 million), according to
Toshihiro Nagahama, chief economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research
Institute in Tokyo.  “Demand varies greatly depending on whether Valentine’s
Day is a day off from work or not,” Nagahama said in an
interview.  In Tokyo’s Shinjuku district at the Isetan department store,
a unit of Tokyo-based  Isetan Mitsukoshi Holdings Ltd .,
Valentine’s Day demand accounts for about 20 percent of annual
revenue from chocolates, said Nao Ueno, who handles food and
drinks purchasing for the Shinjuku branch and five others.  “Valentine’s Day being on a weekday is having a positive
influence,” Ueno said. “We expect this year’s sales will be
higher than in the past.”  Cocoa Prices  The office gift-giving may help chocolate makers temper the
effect of soaring cocoa prices. Political unrest disrupted
supplies of the chocolate ingredient from  Ivory Coast , the
world’s largest producer, and may drive prices of cocoa to as
high as $3,720 a metric ton, a Bloomberg survey of six analysts
showed last month. That would be the highest since January 1979.  “We expect chocolate sales to increase,” said Yuta
Fukasawa, a spokeswoman in Japan for Vevey, Switzerland-based  Nestle SA , the maker of Kit Kat candy bars. “We haven’t decided
to raise the price of chocolates. It seems difficult to increase
the price while Japan faces deflation.”  Wages in Japan fell for the first time in 10 months in
December, when retail sales unexpectedly slumped 2 percent. A
declining willingness to buy durable goods dragged down  consumer
confidence  to a 10-month low in December and household spending
fell 3.3 percent, the biggest slide since February 2009.  Still, Mars Inc., maker of M&Ms and Snickers bars, may
follow if major chocolate makers raise their prices, said Takako
Watanabe, a spokeswoman in Japan for the Mclean, Virginia-based
company.  Valentine’s Chart  Investors who make decisions based on historical patterns
may also take heart from Valentine’s Day this year, since
Japan’s Topix stocks index has risen in 11 of the past 14 years
that the celebration has fallen on a weekday. The Topix gained
1.3 percent today, the highest since April 30.  “If the custom influences people’s minds, it may also
influence stock moves,” said Takaaki Yoshino at Daiwa
Securities Capital Markets Co. Yoshino has been ranked Japan’s
No. 1 quantitative analyst for the past five years by
Institutional Investor magazine.  Meiji Holdings has risen 4 percent this year on the Tokyo
stock exchange, compared with a gain of 6.7 percent for the
Topix. Morinaga has climbed 5.2 percent and Morozoff has slid
1.8 percent.  Higher Consumption  Japanese Valentine’s Day sales of chocolates have jumped
from about 27 billion yen in 2000 to 37 billion yen in 2010,
according to Nagahama. The country ranks outside the top-20
worldwide in terms of  consumption per person , according to the
latest available statistics from industry group Caobisco.  “Many office workers have stopped by to buy chocolates for
colleagues,” Chika Takada, an employee at Godiva Japan Inc.’s
shop in central Tokyo, said today. “They usually spend about
3,000 yen for a box of chocolates for their bosses.”  Chocolate arrived in Japan in 1797 and became popular
around 1925, according to the Chocolate & Cocoa Association of
Japan, an industry lobby. The practice of women buying
chocolates for men began around 1950, according to the group.  Giving out of duty under “giri choco” has expanded to
“sewa choco,” where women give chocolates to men they respect,
and to “tomo choco,” where they give chocolates to women
friends. Men traditionally offer gifts to women on March 14,
known as White Day, which this year also falls on a weekday.  “On Valentine’s Day, I expect many people to start giving
chocolates to colleagues,” said Akemi Hayashibara, 26, another
Tokyo office worker. “I made and gave chocolates to 15 male
colleagues. It took me three hours to make them. The reaction
from them was really good. I enjoyed Valentine’s Day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takako Iwatani in Tokyo at 
 tiwatani@bloomberg.net ;
Kazuyo Sawa in Tokyo at 
 ksawa3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 