-- 
Palestinians Plan Vote Hamas Opposes by September

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n
-- 
2011-02-13T09:50:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/palestinians-plan-vote-hamas-opposes-by-september-update1-.html
The  Palestinian Authority  plans to
hold parliamentary and presidential elections by September, the
first polling in more than five years, a decision rejected by
the Islamic militant group Hamas, which controls the Gaza Strip.  “The aim of holding the elections by September this year
is to try to get out of the current impasse and let the people
say their word,” Palestine Liberation Organization executive
committee member Hanan Ashrawi told journalists in Ramallah
yesterday.  Peace talks with  Israel  that  Egypt  was trying to mediate
have been complicated by a four-year split between Hamas and
Fatah, the political party of Palestinian Authority President
Mahmoud Abbas. The term of the existing parliament and president
ended more than a year ago.  Hamas spokesman Fawzi Barhoom said the group wouldn’t
participate in any elections, meaning no polling would take
place in the Gaza Strip. Hamas members in the  West Bank , ruled
by the Palestinian Authority, would probably boycott the
elections if held there, said Mkhaimar Abusada, a political
scientist at Gaza’s Al-Azhar University.  Holding elections may also be an attempt to prevent
protests such as those seen in Tunisia and Egypt from spreading,
Abusada said.  “The Palestinian Authority is trying, in a pre-emptive
decision, to contain any future protest in the West Bank,” he
said.  ‘Won’t Cooperate’  “It is trying to say, we welcome any elections, we want
elections, and it is Hamas that will not cooperate,” Abusada
said. Without Hamas participation, the vote isn’t likely to take
place, he said, noting the announcement didn’t set a date for
the polling.  Hamas seized control of the  Gaza Strip  in 2007, ending a
partnership government with Fatah after winning parliamentary
elections. People in Gaza, on the border of Egypt, have
celebrated with rallies the resignation of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  that followed 18 days of protests, while reaction
in the West Bank has been muted.  The split in the two Palestinian factions, which has left
Abbas in control of the West Bank only, has been cited by Israel
as an obstacle in reaching any peace agreement that would
establish an independent state.  The most recent peace negotiations between Israel and the
Palestinians broke down in September after Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu wouldn’t extend a 10-month partial
construction freeze in West Bank settlements. Abbas has refused
to negotiate as long as the building continues.  Negotiator Quits  Palestinian chief negotiator Saeb Erakat said he resigned
yesterday. In an interview today with Army Radio, Erakat said he
was stepping down to take responsibility for a leak of
confidential documents relating to peace talks with Israel.  Last month,  Al Jazeera  released memos and e-mails from
 private meetings  that, if authentic, show Palestinian
negotiators were prepared to give up claims to parts of East
Jerusalem and swap some Jewish settlements in the West Bank for
territory within Israel in 2008 talks. Al Jazeera didn’t say how
it obtained the  documents .  “Erakat was the top negotiator for 17 years,” said
Abusada. “There is a stalemate with the Israelis, and I believe
the Palestinians, even in the West Bank, would like to see
someone else in charge, someone who is not ready to make the
compromises made by Erakat.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saud Abu Ramadan in Gaza City at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  