-- 
Public Praise, Private Calls Keep Pentagon Connected to Egypt's Military

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-02-13T22:34:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/public-praise-private-calls-keep-pentagon-connected-to-egypt-s-military.html
Pentagon officials are using public
praise and private phone calls to help the Obama administration
maintain connections and influence with the Egyptian military,
which took control of the country Feb. 11 and promised a
transition to democracy.  U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  and Admiral Mike Mullen, President  Barack Obama ’s top military adviser, have made
regular telephone calls to their counterparts, according to
Pentagon spokesmen Geoff Morrell and Navy Captain John Kirby,
who provided few details on the substance of the conversations.  The calls aren’t intended to pressure the Egyptian military
to do anything specific, a U.S. military official said on
condition of anonymity. Decades of ties, including training of
Egyptian officers at elite U.S. military schools, has
established relationships between the two forces and made
pressure unnecessary so far, said the official, who wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly on the calls.  The connections may be critical in the coming weeks and
months as  Egypt ’s Supreme Council of the Armed Forces directs a
process toward elections and democratic rule, after President  Hosni Mubarak  ceded his powers to it Feb. 11.  Showing Results  “The military, for its part, is going to have to show some
results right away,” said Daniel Kurtzer, a former ambassador
to Egypt who is a lecturer at  Princeton University . Lifting the
state of emergency that’s been in effect for 30 years and given
power to security forces would “send a powerful signal
throughout the society,” he said.  As Gates and Mullen have tried to keep on top of events in
Egypt, they’ve also sought to reassure allies and partners in
the region of U.S. backing. Gates and other top U.S. officials
met with Israeli Defense Minister Ehud Barak at the White House
this week, and Mullen headed to Jordan and  Israel  to meet with
senior civilian and military leaders there yesterday and today.  Mullen will attend a ceremony marking the end of Israeli
Lieutenant General Gabi Ashkenazi’s term as chief of staff. “In
both countries, he will discuss security issues of mutual
concern and reassure both these key partners of the U.S.
military’s commitment to that partnership,” Kirby said.  Obama’s Appeal  Obama appealed to the Egyptian army’s restraint and
professionalism again Feb. 11, as have Gates and Mullen, the
chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, in their few public
statements since the demonstrations began. Gates has spoken five
times during the crisis with his counterpart, Defense Minister
Field Marshal Mohammed Hussein Tantawi, who is head of the
council that has taken charge, according to Morrell.  “The military has served patriotically and responsibly as
a caretaker to the state, and will now have to ensure a
transition that is credible in the eyes of the Egyptian
people,” Obama said, before laying out a list of expectations.
They include lifting the 30-year state of emergency, revising
the constitution and guaranteeing free and fair elections.  “I urge the Egyptian military to follow through on its
commitment to lift emergency rule and schedule free and fair
elections,” said Nita Lowey of  New York , the top Democrat on
the House Appropriations subcommittee overseeing the State
Department, which negotiates foreign aid agreements and weapons
sales.  John Negroponte, the first U.S. director of national
intelligence under President  George W. Bush , said on CNN’s
“State of the Union” yesterday that the U.S government will
“play a role of holding the military’s feet to the fire” to
ensure it makes democratic reforms, such as revising the
constitution and enabling multiple political parties.  Weapons Sales  Egypt receives about $1.3 billion a year in military aid.
The Pentagon has about 625 personnel in Egypt, helping keep the
peace along the border with Israel and coordinating aid and
weapons sales from such companies as  General Dynamics Corp  .,  Lockheed Martin Corp .,  Boeing Co . and  United Technologies Corp  .  Egypt assembles U.S.-designed Abrams tanks under contract
with  Falls Church , Virginia-based General Dynamics and the U.S.
Army. The Egyptian Air Force flies F-16s from Bethesda,
Maryland-based Lockheed Martin, CH-47 Chinook transport
helicopters from Chicago-based Boeing and Black Hawk helicopters
made by Sikorsky Aircraft Corp., a division of United
Technologies of Hartford,  Connecticut .  Congressional View  Congress could cut back the aid if Egypt moves in a
direction contrary to U.S. policy, including peace with Israel.  “The Egyptian people are demanding a meaningful and
irreversible transition to democracy,” said Arizona Senator  John McCain , the top Republican on the Senate Armed Services
Committee. “I urge the Egyptian military to faithfully support
and secure the coming process of political change in Egypt.”  Other U.S. lawmakers have raised concerns that the Muslim
Brotherhood, an opposition group accused of terrorist ties,
might seize control of the country.  “I don’t think the military are going to let the Muslim
Brotherhood take over and the Muslim Brotherhood know that and
they’re keeping their heads down, and saying basically they
don’t want to take over,” Martin Indyk, a former ambassador to
Israel who is vice president for foreign policy at the nonprofit  Brookings Institution  in  Washington , D.C., said on NBC’s “Meet
the Press” yesterday.  Two-Way Bargain  The Egyptian military can afford to exercise its
independence from foreign interference, even after more than 30
years and billions of dollars of U.S. assistance, because of its
relative professionalism and its view of U.S. assistance as part
of a two-way bargain, officials and analysts say.  “The fact that we have a good relationship means that
they’re going to listen to you, not that they’re going to follow
you,” said Graeme Bannerman, a former U.S. lobbyist for Egypt
who’s now a scholar for the Middle East Institute in Washington.
“In the end, they’ll make the decision based on what is best in
the Egyptians’ national interest.”  The Egyptian military may also have acquired some of its
professional standards and ethics while studying at U.S.
military educational institutions such as the service war
colleges and the National Defense University. More than 500 a
year come to the U.S. for advanced training, in addition to the
contacts they have in Egypt with U.S. personnel, who help them
adapt to the American weapons and equipment they receive.  Civilian Influence  The standards taught “include a role for civilian
influence over decision-making,” said Robert Springborg, a
professor of political economy of the Middle East at the Naval
Postgraduate School in Monterey,  California .  Springborg said he doesn’t think the U.S. has had much
influence over the decisions of the Egyptian military during the
turmoil in Cairo and other major cities.  “I think the military has looked after its own interests
as the high command sees them,” he said.  The Egyptian military isn’t likely to get too involved in
details of constitutional changes or get so comfortable that
they would want to hang on to power, Bannerman and others said.  “They are just not the types to want to do that,” said  Paul Sullivan , a professor of economics at the  National Defense
University  in Washington. “Also the people of Egypt would
likely not accept it.”  1979 Peace Agreement  The Egyptian military sees the aid it receives every year
from the U.S. as recompense for its 1979 peace agreement with
Israel and for basing and access that the U.S. receives,
analysts said.  “They see the aid as a partnership,” Bannerman said. As a
result, Gates and Mullen aren’t likely to press too hard, he
said. “They’re smart enough to know that’s not how to get them
to do it.”  Still, the Arab world lacks examples of a military
successfully shepherding a society toward democracy, said David
Ottaway, an analyst at the Woodrow Wilson International Center
for Scholars in Washington. The military in Algeria and  Sudan 
allowed multiparty democracy for short periods before returning
to power, he said.  “This military has stayed out of politics for 30 years and
now it’s getting back in,” said Ottaway, a retired Washington
Post journalist who served as Cairo bureau chief in the 1980s.
“I don’t think we know how it’s going to play out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  