-- 
Reagan Gets Many Returns for His 100th Birthday: Albert R. Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-02-13T16:01:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/reagan-gets-many-returns-for-100th-birthday-commentary-by-albert-r-hunt.html
It’s a week late to be writing about
 Ronald Reagan , except controversy continues to swirl around the
late president after the commemoration of his 100th birthday.  Political conservatives accuse liberals and Democrats of
trying to hijack his legacy; some resent President  Barack Obama 
for citing him as a leadership model. The other side says
today’s political right is anathema to the pragmatic moderation
that was Reaganism’s hallmark.  The Gipper would be bemused.  Some of those same liberals who today talk of Reagan’s
virtues were contemptuous a quarter-century ago. The
presidential adviser Clark Clifford’s characterization of him as
an “amiable dunce” was widely accepted in Democratic circles.  It’s remembered that Reagan and House Speaker Tip O’Neill,
a liberal Democrat, had a social relationship of sorts. That was
after they fought, at times bitterly, over issues.  Anyone who doubts the 40th president’s  devotion to
conservative principles, after his early days as New Deal
Democrat, should read his 1964 endorsement of the Republican
presidential candidate Barry Goldwater, a text that in Reagan
circles is still referred to as “The Speech.” He railed
against Medicare, called for a voluntary Social Security system
and accused the Democrats of “appeasement” in dealing with
Communists.  He genuinely believed taxes should be lower, government
should spend and regulate less and the  Soviet Union  was an
“evil empire” that should be defeated. Reagan loved to read
and clip the periodical Human Events, a bible of the far right.  ‘The Speech’  Yet conservatives today romanticize Reagan’s fervor. As
governor and president he was a pragmatist. The critics of
Obama’s citations today should remember Reagan often invoked the
first president he voted for:  Franklin D. Roosevelt . In “ The
Speech ,” Reagan even borrowed a phrase from his Democratic
predecessor, saying “you and I have a rendezvous with
destiny.”  He thought tax rates were too high. He also increased taxes
as governor of  California  and three times as president after his
initial big tax cuts. He helped pass a sweeping overhaul of the
 tax code  in 1986 that lowered rates and was paid for with a huge
increase in corporate levies.  In Berlin, he demanded that Soviet President  Mikhail Gorbachev  “tear down this wall,” and engaged in massive
defense spending to counter the Russians. In his second term,
brushing aside conservative objections, he established a close
relationship with Gorbachev.  Pragmatic Aides  Always a big delegator, he usually sided with pragmatists
in selecting top advisers. To run his White House, he shunned a
staunch conservative aide, Ed Meese, and relied instead on Jim Baker and Mike Deaver. Baker, the most effective chief of staff
in the modern presidency, had been the campaign chairman for
 George H.W. Bush , Reagan’s main rival in 1980. On foreign policy
he sided with Secretary of State  George Shultz  over his longtime
California confidant, William Clark, a hardliner. After the 1986
Iran-Contra scandal, he turned to Howard Baker, the moderate
former Senate Republican leader, to lead the White House out of
its worst crisis.  There were some sad chapters in the Reagan era. Some of his
policies were insensitive toward minorities, especially African
Americans.  In an interview on Feb. 2, 1984, the president assailed Tip
O’Neill’s call for a withdrawal of beleaguered U.S. Marines in
Lebanon. The speaker “may be ready for surrender, but I’m
not,” Reagan bragged. Five days later, he began withdrawing the
Marines, who were gone by the end of the month.  ‘Economic Miracle’  Reaganites revel in the “economic miracle” they say his
tax cuts produced. Actually, the economy under a successor,
President  Bill Clinton , who initiated a tax increase, grew a
little faster and created more jobs. Federal spending as a
percentage of the economy didn’t go down in the Reagan years.  Reagan certainly hastened the demise of the Soviet Union
with his military buildup and tough posture. Yet conservatives
are loath to credit  Harry Truman , who devised the original
policy of containment, or Dwight Eisenhower, or  John F. Kennedy ,
who avoided a nuclear war during the Cuban Missile Crisis.  There were impressive Reagan achievements, none greater
than his success in inspiring a dispirited public with his can-
do optimism, proving anew that government can work. When he
assumed office, the U.S. political system was considered
dysfunctional.  Model for Obama  He also showed the strength of a politician who is
personally secure -- witness his choice of the Bakers. As Obama
studies the Reagan leadership model, reading Lou Cannon’s
marvelous biography, he should consider his own willingness to
reach outside familiar circles.  I interviewed Reagan more than a dozen times. During the
1980 campaign, when I worked for the Wall Street Journal, the
 Washington  bureau and editorial page, deeply suspicious of each
other, landed a joint interview with the president. When the
campaign scheduled it for early April we had to decline; I was
getting married that weekend.  It was rescheduled. The night before, working on questions
with the editorial-page writer, who didn’t know Reagan, I
explained how he was different than most candidates who had a
view on every traveling reporter; by contrast, Reagan really
only knew Cannon and a few TV network correspondents. To my
colleague’s surprise, I said Reagan had no idea who I was.  ‘Just Got Married’  On a flight to  Tennessee  the next day, we were ushered up
to the front section. “I’m not going to do this interview,”
Reagan exclaimed. “Why?” I asked, incredulously. “Nancy and I
were talking last night and looked at my schedule and saw an
interview with  Al Hunt . I said, ‘he just got married and he
shouldn’t be out here running around; he should be home with
Judy.’”  Everyone laughed, we did the interview and it ran as a long
Q&A on the editorial page. A little later I was back covering
Reagan and he approached some of us milling around an airport
tarmac. I greeted him warmly. He thanked me for my support,
assuming I was a local politician.  Bruised feelings aside, I initially thought this incident
reflected negatively on the Gipper. Later, I realized it was
just the opposite; he knew what he had to know, when he had to
know it.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for Washington at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley in Washington at 
 mberley@bloomberg.net . 