-- 
Trichet Urges Euro-Area States to Enforce Policy Coordination

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-02-13T18:32:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/trichet-urges-euro-area-states-to-enforce-policy-coordination.html
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  called on euro-area governments to enforce
better coordination of economic policies to underpin the single
currency.  Asked in an interview with German regional newspaper  Weser-
Kurier  whether he backs a call by Germany and France for an
economic government, Trichet said, “If this proposal means that
there is a strong political will to coordinate and monitor
economic policies in the euro area, I will firmly support it.”  Trichet said the Frankfurt-based ECB “will continue to do
everything in our own power to avoid second-round effects,”
adding that the bank is responsible for guaranteeing price
stability “even if some governments don’t behave” according to
rules. ECB spokeswoman Regina Schueller confirmed the remarks by
telephone today.  Germany and  France , the euro zone’s two top economic
powers, met resistance to calls for closer coordination of tax,
wage and pension policies at a summit of European Union leaders
on Feb. 4. The two countries were forced to scale back a
proposed “pact for competitiveness” designed to help end the
region’s debt crisis.  “We need what we call a quantum leap, a decisive step
forward,” Trichet said. “I expect this new initiative to lead
to a strengthening of the legislation on economic governance
which is now being examined by the European Parliament. We’re
calling for a major improvement compared with the governments’
previous position, which the ECB’s governing council regarded as
unsatisfactory.”  “This is no time for complacency,” he said. “The dangers
and risks are permanent. To continue as before would be a great
folly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 