-- 
Rio Tinto’s Albanese Forecasts Continuing ‘Strong’ Copper Price

-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 
2011-02-13T01:31:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/rio-tinto-s-albanese-forecasts-strong-copper-price-amid-supply-deficit.html
  Rio Tinto  Group, the world’s third-
largest mining company, forecast high copper prices will
continue before supplies from new projects damp the market.  “We will see a continued period of strong copper pricing,
largely because many of the large mines, including our own, are
seeing declining grades, deepening pits,” Tom Albanese, chief
executive officer of London-based Rio Tinto, told Australian
Broadcasting Corp.’s Inside Business television program.  Copper in London surged to a record last week and gained 52
percent in the past year as the global economic recovery
gathered pace. The global supply deficit will reach 822,000
metric tons in 2011, more than double last year’s shortfall,  Barclays Capital  said on Jan. 20.  “We’re working on several new projects around the world
and I know, certainly our competitors are working on their own
projects,” Albanese said in a transcript of the program, which
was broadcast today. The longer that copper prices stayed at
high levels, the more new supply would be induced, he said.  Three-month copper on the London Metal Exchange gained 0.2
percent to close at $9,961 a ton on Feb. 11 after rallying to an
all-time high of $10,160 on Feb. 7. Rio Tinto rose 1.6 percent
to 4,623.5 pence at the 4:30 p.m. close of trade in  London .  Rio Tinto’s expansion plans include the Oyu Tolgoi copper
project in Mongolia, while the company also had “additional
opportunities” in  South America  and  North America  and at its
Northparkes mine in  Australia ’s New South Wales state, he said.  Record Profit  Rio Tinto posted record 2010 net income of $14.3 billion on
Feb. 10, boosted by iron ore and copper prices. The company
raised its dividend and announced a $5 billion share buyback.  The 2010 global refined copper deficit is expected to
increase through 2011 and 2012, leading to more talk about
substitution with other materials, Rio Tinto Chief Economist
Vivek Tulpule said in a report released with the earnings.  “The prospects of rapid and significant material switches
are expected to be limited in the near term given the
substitution that has already taken place,” he said. The
introduction of exchange-traded funds in copper could also have
a “significant impact” on copper prices in the coming year by
adding to investment demand, Tulpule said.  Consumption trends over the next 15 to 20 years would lead
to a doubling in demand for  iron ore , copper, aluminum and other
commodities, Albanese said in a results briefing on Feb. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Pugh in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  