-- 
Roubini’s Next Crisis Is Scary Food for Thought: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-02-13T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/roubini-s-next-crisis-makes-food-for-thought-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
Forget  Egypt  for a moment. Skip the
water crisis in China. Look past angst on the streets of  Bangladesh . If you want to see how extreme the effects of
surging food prices are becoming, look to wealthy Japan.  So big are the increases that economists are buzzing about
them pushing deflationary Japan toward inflation. Yes, rising
costs for commodities such as wheat, corn and coffee might do
what trillions of dollars of central-bank liquidity couldn’t.  Yet the economic consequences of food prices pale in
comparison with the social ones. Nowhere could the fallout be
greater than Asia, where a critical mass of those living on less
than $2 a day reside. It might have major implications for
Asia’s debt outlook. It may have even bigger ones for leaders
hoping to keep the peace and avoid mass protests.  What a difference a few months can make. Back in, say,
October, the chatter was about Asia’s invulnerability to Wall
Street’s woes. Now, governments in Jakarta, Manila and  New Delhi 
are grappling with their own subprime crisis of sorts. This one
reflects a toxic mix of suboptimal food stocks, exploding
demand, wacky weather and zero  interest rates  around the globe.  It’s not hyperbole when  Nouriel Roubini , the New York
University economist who predicted the U.S. financial crisis,
says surging food and energy costs are stoking emerging-market
inflation that’s serious enough to topple governments.  Hosni Mubarak  over in Egypt can attest to that.  Side Effects  It’s important to begin considering the side effects. The  United Nations  reckons countries spent at least $1 trillion on
food imports in 2010, with the poorest paying as much as 20
percent more than in 2009. These increases are just getting
started. In January, world food prices rose to another record on
higher dairy, sugar and grain costs.  This crisis might lead to another: debt. Expect Asian
leaders to increase subsidies sharply and cut  import taxes . The
fiscal implications of these steps aren’t getting the attention
they deserve. The same is true of social-instability risks.
Events in Egypt are a graphic example of how people living close
to the edge can get motivated in a hurry to demand change.
Keeping that rage bottled in the age of Twitter, YouTube and
Facebook won’t be easy. Hence Roubini’s concerns about
geopolitical crises.  There’s an extreme irony in the timing of all this. It’s
coming as the world is becoming a heavier place. Obesity rates
have almost doubled since 1980 and almost 10 percent of humanity
was seriously overweight in 2008, according to the medical
journal  The Lancet . People have never been fatter at the same
time when food prices have never been so high.  Fat World  The Westernization of  Asia ’s diet is partly behind the rise
in food costs. Rapid growth, rising incomes, growing populations
and urbanization are conspiring to shift eating habits away from
the staples of old toward livestock and dairy products.  The growing pains inherent in shifting consumption patterns
will be especially acute in this region. Unlike the food-price
spike of 2008, this one may be more secular than cyclical. Asia
alone, for example, will have another 140 million mouths to feed
over the next four years. Add that to almost 3 billion people in
the fast-growing region and you have a recipe for booming
demand.  China’s size and scope means it will be buying up ever-
growing chunks of the world’s food supply. As the yuan rises, so
will  China ’s ability to outbid everyone else. Increased trade
tensions are inevitable and it will show the futility of food
subsidies. Prices will rise as long as consumption does, so it’s
really a matter of pouring money down the drain.  Weather’s Wrath  China also shows how changing weather will bump up against
rising living standards. Severe droughts are imperiling wheat
crops in the world’s largest producer. It’s creating shortages
of drinking water both for China’s 1.3 billion people and
livestock. It’s a reminder that water is the next oil.
Governments will be scouring the globe for it before long.  Rising food prices will complicate things for China’s
central bank. That goes, too, for  India ,  Indonesia , the  Philippines  and even less developed economies from  Pakistan  to  Vietnam .  This will be an inconvenient reality check for Asia bulls.
Take Indonesia, the fourth-most populous nation and home to the
biggest Muslim population. Food prices make it harder to deliver
higher  living standards  and narrow the gap between rich and
poor. The same goes for other countries in which  population
growth  often outpaces gross domestic product, like the
Philippines.  What’s killing households surviving on a few dollars a day
is price volatility. If you spend almost half of your income to
fill bellies, a 10 percent surge in cooking oil, wheat or chili
peppers is devastating. It’s hard enough to pay rent and handle
health-care costs today, never mind investing in education.  Governments  need to get busy softening the blow, even at
the expense of rattling the folks at  Standard & Poor’s  and
Moody’s Investors Service. Otherwise, they will have a bigger
crisis on their hands than voters or investors alike can
stomach.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  