-- 
Samsung Unveils New Smartphone, Tablet in Apple-Killer Hunt

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-02-13T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/samsung-unveils-new-smartphone-tablet-in-apple-killer-hunt.html
Samsung Electronics Co. rolled out a
new, larger tablet computer and an update to its Galaxy S
smartphone, its latest salvo in the battle with  Apple Inc . for
dominance of the high-end mobile devices market.  The world’s second-largest maker of mobile phones unveiled
the phone and tablet, both running  Google Inc .’s Android
operating system, at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona
today. Samsung said it will also introduce a series of
“integrated mobile applications” for downloading music, books,
and games, similar to Apple’s iTunes entertainment portal.  Samsung and rivals like HTC Corp. are jostling for
leadership in the surging market for smartphones, tablets and
their associated applications, with the South Korean company
focusing on its Galaxy line of Android devices. Apple’s iPhone
and devices running Android together accounted for about 53
percent of smartphone sales worldwide last year, according to
Gartner Inc., crowding out competing offerings from companies
including  Nokia Oyj  and BlackBerry-maker Research In Motion Ltd.  The 10-inch tablet unveiled by Samsung today, the Galaxy
Tab 10.1, will compete more directly with Apple’s similarly
sized iPad than the 7-inch existing Galaxy Tab. Tablets running
Android software boosted their share of the global market almost
10-fold in the fourth quarter, researcher  Strategy Analytics 
said on Jan. 31.  Seoul-based Samsung has become the manufacturer of choice
for Google, building the search-engine owner’s flagship Nexus S
Android phone. That device, along with the updated Galaxy S
introduced today, is equipped with near-field communication
payment technology that will eventually allow mobile users to
pay for retail transactions with a wave of their phones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Barcelona via we3w or
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  