-- 
Mubarak Family Holdings Under Investigation by U.K.'s Serious Fraud Office

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-02-13T15:51:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/mubarak-family-holdings-under-investigation-by-u-k-s-serious-fraud-office.html
The U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office is
investigating if any assets of former Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  and his family are held in Britain, SFO spokesman Sam Jaffa said.  The SFO has not had any requests from  Egypt  or elsewhere
for assets in the U.K., if they exist, to be frozen, Jaffa said
in London today by telephone. The agency wants to locate any
funds so it can “move quickly” if a request is made, he said.
The Egyptian cabinet may request a freeze on Mubarak’s assets,
Al Arabiya television reported today.  The fraud office is investigating a Belgravia, London-based
private equity firm with links to Mubarak’s sons Gamal and Alaa,
the Sunday Times reported today, without saying where it got the
information. Jaffa declined to say whether any assets have been
identified.  Mubarak’s family may have more than 1.5 billion pounds
($2.4 billion) in British and Swiss bank accounts and in
property in London,  New York  and  Los Angeles , the Sunday Times
reported, without saying where it got the information.  Mubarak resigned Feb. 11 after a 30-year reign as Egypt’s
president as a popular revolt forced his ouster. Egypt’s army
dissolved the country’s parliament today and suspended the
constitution.  Switzerland froze funds belonging to Mubarak and his
immediate circle on Feb. 11 to prevent their
“misappropriation,” the Bern-based Foreign Ministry said in a
statement. It didn’t specify the value of Mubarak’s assets that
are in  Switzerland .  U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable said any action to
freeze assets needs to be coordinated with other countries.  “We need to look at it,” Cable told BBC television’s
“Andrew Marr” program today. “It depends whether his funds
were illegally or improperly obtained. I would be concerned if
banks had been engaged in anything improper. We would act if
anything improper occurred.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mike Harrison at 
 mharrison5@bloomberg.net  