-- 
Zambia Says Glencore-Owned Mine May Have Erred on Taxes

-- B y   A n t h o n y   M u k w i t a
-- 
2011-02-13T15:48:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-13/zambia-says-glencore-owned-mopani-mine-may-have-tax-irregularities-.html
Zambian authorities say there may
have been “irregularities” in tax submissions by Glencore
International AG’s Mopani Copper Mines Plc, the director general
of the country’s revenue authority said.  “If we establish that there is a shortfall in what Mopani
submitted, they may have to settle the difference and if the
audit exonerates them then there will be no case against them
and this matter will be put to rest amicably,” Zambia Revenue
Authority Director General Wisdom Nekairo said today in a
telephone interview in Lusaka, the Zambian capital.  Zambia,  Africa ’s largest copper producer, hired  Grant
Thornton Zambia  and Econ Pöyry, a Norwegian global consulting
and engineering company, in February 2009 to audit mining
companies operating in the country, Nekairo said. They produced
their preliminary report in November, he said.  Mopani today called the report “incomplete” and “factually
incorrect.”  “From the outset the analysis does not take into account
that the company is partially a custom smelting facility and as
a result a lot of the analysis throws up inconsistent results,”
Mopani said in an e-mailed statement.  The company is discussing the issue with the Zambian
authorities, it said.  “The preliminary report points in the direction of
possible irregularities,” Nekairo said. “We are still in
discussion with the company and we shall have a comprehensive
final position soon.”  The revenue authority informed Finance and National
Planning Minister  Situmbeko Musokotwane  about the matter,
Nekairo said. Musokotwane didn’t respond to calls today seeking
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Mukwita at 
 amukwita1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 