-- 3i Defends its Strategy After Activist Bramson Boosts Stake
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-03-01T14:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/3i-defends-its-strategy-after-activist-bramson-boosts-stake.html
3i Group Plc (III)  defended its strategy
for turning around the company after activist investor  Edward Bramson  announced he boosted his stake in Britain’s oldest
private-equity firm.  3i’s efforts to reduce costs by cutting jobs and closing
offices outside the U.K. has created “a compelling value
proposition for shareholders,” the London-based company said in
a statement today. The defense followed an earlier disclosure
from Bramson’s Sherborne Investors that it now owns 4.2 percent
of 3i, making it the firm’s third-biggest shareholder.  “We have wasted no time in implementing the significant
organizational and cultural changes that were needed,” 3i Chief
Executive Officer Simon Borrows said in the statement. “We are
confident that we can drive improved performance and deliver
 shareholder value  over the coming years.”  Bramson, 61, has been targeting 3i after orchestrating a
management shake-up at London-based F&C Asset Management Plc. He
became the London-based fund manager’s chairman in February 2011
after criticizing its business strategy.  3i shares  fell 5.1 pence, or 1.6 percent, to 315.3 pence as
of 1:49 p.m. in London, valuing the company at 3 billion pounds
($4.5 billion). The stock has surged 60 percent since Borrows
announced a strategy overhaul in June. Borrows had replaced
Michael Queen as CEO one-month earlier.  Billy Clegg, a spokesman for Sherborne, didn’t immediately
return a phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  Sherborne raised 207 million pounds in a share sale last
year and said it planned to “realize capital growth from
investment in a target company,” according to a Nov. 15
statement. Sherborne said it would only invest in one company at
a time, and would focus on a publicly traded U.K. firm that “it
considers to be undervalued as a result of operational
deficiencies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in  London  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  