-- Taco Bell in U.K. Discovers Horse Meat in Ground Beef Products
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-03-01T15:58:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/taco-bell-in-u-k-discovers-horse-meat-in-ground-beef-products.html
Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) ’s Taco Bell
Mexican-food chain is the latest company to have found horse
meat in its beef products, the U.K. Food Standards Agency said.  Taco Bell withdrew ground beef from its three U.K.
restaurants, the company said in a statement on its website. The
adulteration was discovered in “some batches of ground beef
supplied to us from one supplier in  Europe ,” according to the
statement. Taco Bell has restaurants at West Thurrock and
Basildon, east of London, and at a food court in Manchester,
England, according to its website.  In a third batch of test results from the  food industry ,
four more products have been found to contain horse DNA at or
above the 1 percent threshold,  the FSA said  today. Birds Eye
withdrew spaghetti bolognese and beef lasagne after positive
tests for equine matter.  The scandal that started in Ireland in mid-January has
spread around the world. The companies affected include Ikea,
the largest furniture retailer, which removed its signature
Swedish meatballs from its restaurants. The European Union has
ordered testing across the region, while  South Africa , spurred
by European discoveries, is investigating how unlabeled donkey,
goat and water buffalo got into supermarket products.  Tesco Tests  “Over 99 percent of tests continue to show no horse DNA at
or above the level of 1 percent,” the FSA said in today’s
statement. So far, the FSA has received 5,430 test results. On
Feb. 8, the FSA ordered supermarkets and food makers to test all
their beef products.  The U.K.’s largest supermarkets have now examined all their
processed minced-beef products and have found no new positive
results for horse DNA in the past week, the British Retail
consortium said today.  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s biggest grocer, has pledged to source
more meat domestically and carry out DNA tests on all of its
meat. This will cost the company about 2 million pounds ($3
million) a year, it said.  Sales of frozen beef burgers in the U.K. dropped by 43
percent in the four weeks ended Feb. 17, while sales of frozen
ready meals declined by 13 percent, according to researcher
 Kantar Worldpanel .  Yum! Brands Inc. also owns  Pizza Hut  and KFC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  