-- Hagel Says Pentagon Will Do What’s Needed to Manage Cuts
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-03-02T20:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/hagel-says-pentagon-will-do-what-s-needed-to-manage-cuts.html
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said
the U.S. military will find ways to cope with across-the-board
budget cuts that began yesterday and that will have “far-
reaching effects” over time.  “Effective immediately,  Air Force  flying hours will be cut
back,” Hagel said yesterday at a Pentagon news conference.
“The Army will curtail training for all units except those
deploying to  Afghanistan .”  While Hagel, who was sworn into office this week after a
partisan confirmation fight, warned of consequences from the
cuts known as sequestration, he stopped short of the dire
language used by his predecessor,  Leon Panetta , who had talked
of an approaching fiscal “doomsday.”  “We will manage these issues,” Hagel said. “These are
adjustments. We anticipated these kinds of realities, and we
will do what we need to do to ensure the capabilities of our
forces.”  The Pentagon faces about $46 billion in budget cuts during
the remaining months of this fiscal year and $500 billion over
nine years unless Congress and President  Barack Obama  agree on
an alternative plan to reduce the federal deficit.  Hagel expressed confidence that Obama and lawmakers will
reach consensus “at some point to avert tremendous damage” to
the U.S. military. When asked, Hagel and Deputy Secretary  Ashton Carter  could cite few immediate effects from sequestration.  April Effects  While Hagel said four Navy air wings will “gradually stand
down,” the first such limiting of operations won’t happen until
April.  “Later this month, we intend to issue preliminary
notifications to thousands of civilian employees who will be
furloughed,” Hagel said. Pentagon officials have said the
unpaid leave for as many as 750,000 workers, averaging one day a
week, wouldn’t begin until April 25.  Defense analysts such as  Todd Harrison  of the Center for
Strategic and Budgetary Assessments say the Pentagon has
exaggerated the effect of the cuts.  “This is relatively mild compared to some previous
drawdowns in  defense spending ,” Harrison said yesterday on a
conference call with reporters. “This is bad policy, this is
not a way to run your government, but this is not going to make
us a second-rate power by any means.”  Lawrence Korb, a former assistant secretary of defense and
a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress in
Washington, said of sequestration: “You can do it without
really impacting our readiness to deal with the threats that we
face.”  ‘Abrupt, Serious’  At the Pentagon, Carter responded to such criticism,
saying, “All this is going to be abundantly obvious, starting
tomorrow and building through the year.”  “This is not subtle,” he said. “This is an abrupt,
serious curbing of activity in each and every one of our key
categories.”  Defense contractors will be “affected very directly,”
Carter said, because the cuts may result in “fewer weapons
systems in a contract than we anticipated were going to be put
in a contract,” he said.  Republicans on the House Armed Services Committee held a
news conference yesterday to demand that defense programs be
spared from cuts in any compromise aimed at reversing
sequestration.  “Don’t plan on cutting our national defense one more
cent,” said Howard “Buck” McKeon of  California , the committee
chairman.  Cuts Detailed  Pentagon accounts will be cut by 7.8 percent across-the-
board from full-year levels, the White House’s Office of
Management and Budget said in a report to Congress last night.
The defense cuts are effectively 13 percent because they are
being squeezed into the seven months remaining in the fiscal
year, according to the budget office  The cuts apply to funds from this fiscal year that aren’t
yet obligated under a contract as well as unspent money from
previous years.  Among specifics in the report relevant to defense
contractors, the Navy’s aircraft account has $20.8 billion,
including $2.91 billion in unobligated funds from prior years. A
7.8 percent reduction equals $1.62 billion from the account that
pays for aircraft made by  Boeing Co. (BA) ,  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  and
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)   Ships, Jets  Similarly, the Navy’s $22.5 billion shipbuilding and
conversion account, including $7.5 billion in unobligated
dollars, would be reduced by $1.75 billion. The dollars go to
programs built by  Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc. (HII) ,  General
Dynamics Corp. (GD) , Lockheed,  Austal Ltd (ASB)  and  Raytheon Co. (RTN)   The Air Force’s aircraft procurement fund holds $22.8
billion, including $9.75 billion from prior years. The account
bankrolls Lockheed and Boeing jets and drones built by General
Atomics and Northrop Grumman. This account will take a $1.78
billion reduction.  The Air Force’s $6.6 billion missile account, which pays
for Raytheon air-to-air missiles, as well as Boeing satellite-
guidance kits for bombs and Lockheed Martin cruise missiles, is
reduced by $514 million.  The Army’s $7.4 billion aircraft account, which primarily
pays for helicopters built by Boeing and  United Technologies
Corp. (UTX) ’s Sikorsky Aircraft unit, is reduced by $576 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  