-- Thai February Inflation Slows a Second Month as Food Prices Fell
-- B y   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   [ b n : P R S N = 1 8 3 1 2 0 2 ]   M i c h a e l   M u n o z   [ ]
-- 2013-03-01T04:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/thai-february-inflation-slows-a-second-month-as-food-prices-fell.html
Thailand ’s inflation slowed for a
second straight month in February, helped by state subsidies and
a stronger baht, and as food prices fell.  Consumer prices  rose 3.23 percent from a year earlier, the
Ministry of Commerce said in Nonthaburi province outside Bangkok
today, from a previously reported 3.39 percent increase in
January. The median estimate of 17 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was 3.3 percent.  The Bank of Thailand last month held  interest rates  for a
third straight meeting after the economy grew faster than
estimated last quarter. The monetary authority has resisted the
government’s calls for lower borrowing costs to curb capital
inflows that boosted the baht to a 17-month high in January.  “Inflation is not worrisome, as the government continues
to extend subsidies,” Phacharaphot Nuntramas, an economist at
Siam Commercial Bank Pcl in Bangkok, said before the data
release. “We expect the central bank to hold the rate
throughout the year as risks to growth have receded.”  The baht rose 0.1 percent to 29.74 against the dollar at
11:08 a.m. in Bangkok. It is the biggest gainer this year among
11 widely-traded Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra said last month the
price of cooking gas for household users will remain fixed till
end-March, and also extended a  tax cut  on diesel. A new round of
minimum-wage increases this year is unlikely to raise price
pressure, the central bank has said.  “Inflation is at an appropriate level and it’s quite
stable,”  Permanent Secretary  for Commerce Vatchari Vimooktayon
said at a briefing today. “Price pressure is not high because
of the government’s policy to control product prices and
energy.”  Prices gained 0.21 percent in February from a month earlier,
today’s report showed.  Core inflation , which excludes fresh food
and fuel costs, was 1.57 percent last month. The central bank
uses the measure to guide policy and expects price gains will
stay below its target of 3 percent this year. 