-- Taiwan Bonds Have First Weekly Gain in a Month on Safety Demand
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-03-01T08:56:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/taiwan-government-bonds-set-for-first-weekly-advance-in-a-month.html
Taiwan ’s government bonds completed
the first weekly gain in more than a month as concern Europe’s
economic outlook remains weak boosted demand for safer assets.
The local dollar was little changed.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  signaled on
Feb. 27 the bank has no intention of tightening monetary policy
anytime soon. Taiwan sold NT$40 billion ($1.4 billion) of 10-
year bonds today at 1.215 percent, matching the median estimate
of fixed-income traders surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Risk-averse sentiment dominated the market in the past
week,” said  James Wang , a fixed-income trader at Yuanta
Securities Co. in Taipei. “The result of the bond sale will be
indicative of the direction of Taiwan’s bonds.”  The yield on the 1.125 percent bonds due March 2023 fell
one basis point this week to 1.214 percent, according to Gretai
Securities Market. It was little changed today.  The  Taiwan dollar  was little changed from a week ago and
gained 0.1 percent today to NT$29.666 against its U.S.
counterpart, based on prices from Taipei Forex Inc. One-month
non-deliverable forwards were steady this week and today at
NT$29.620, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, dropped five basis
points, 0.05 percentage point, this week and eight basis points
today to 4.9 percent.  China PMI  The central bank has sold the local currency near the close
on most days in the past 11 months, according to traders who
asked not to be identified.  China’s official  Purchasing Managers ’ Index fell to a five-
month low of 50.1, a report showed today. That was less than the
median estimate of 50.5 in a Bloomberg survey of economists,
though above the 50 level that is the dividing line between
expansion and contraction. A separate gauge by HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics suggested manufacturing expanded the least
in four months.  The  overnight interbank lending rate  was steady at 0.39
percent, according to Taiwan Interbank Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  