-- Allianz Gained $5.8 Billion From Italian Government Bonds
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   D u n b a r
-- 2013-03-01T16:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/allianz-gained-5-8-billion-from-italian-government-bonds.html
Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Europe ’s biggest
insurer, booked a 4.5 billion-euro ($5.8 billion) unrealized
gain on Italian government bonds after adding to its holdings at
the height of Europe’s debt crisis, company filings showed.  After purchasing 3.8 billion euros of the debt in the first
quarter, Allianz reduced its exposure by 3.3 billion euros in
the second half, leaving total holdings of 31.1 billion euros on
Dec. 31, it said in an analyst presentation last week.  European insurers such as Allianz,  Axa SA (CS)  and  Prudential
Plc (PRU)  benefited from a recovery in financial markets last year,
which helped them increase investment income and offset the
impact of lower interest rates. Net income at Allianz almost
doubled to 5.49 billion euros last year from 2.8 billion euros
in 2011, it said last week.  The buying and selling of Italian bonds was unusual in part
because Allianz is an insurer, not a hedge fund, and Italian
markets were being roiled by Europe’s debt crisis at the time,
according to Rotger Franz, an analyst at  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  in
London.  “While it isn’t acting like a hedge fund, Allianz is more
opportunistic than its peers,” Franz said. “We haven’t seen
any other insurer adding cross-border exposure of Italian
government bonds in 2012.”  ‘Long Term’  The buying and selling was done by separate units of the
company and wasn’t intended as a short-term trading strategy,
Allianz said.  “Allianz is an investor looking for long-term returns that
fit well with its long-term investment strategy,” Stephanie Rupp-Menedetter, spokeswoman for the firm, said in an e-mail.
“Our investments are intended to be held for a very long period
- in accordance with our business model.”  Italian 10-year benchmark bond yields fell from a euro-era
record high of 7.244 percent in November 2011 to 4.388 percent
in December. The average yield volatility during the year was 28
percent. Yields on the bonds rose 2 basis points to 3.51 percent
at 4:51 p.m. today.  An investor that purchased an equally-weighted portfolio of
Italian  government bonds  at the end of January 2012 would have
booked a gain of more than 15 percent by December, according to
Bloomberg total return estimates.  Low Prices  Allianz said it decided to boost its holdings of Italian
 government securities  in the first quarter in part because
prices were low and also because the firm wanted to increase the
amount of bonds with longer maturities in its portfolio to
better align with guaranteed life policies it sold.  “In  Italy , in the first half of the year we increased it,
our overall exposure, due to the very nice spreads and also due
to the duration extension program,” Maximilian Zimmerer, board
member in charge of finance and life insurance at Allianz, said
in a Feb. 22 earnings call with analysts. “And in the second
half we used also the tighter spreads to reduce the position.”  When Allianz first announced on Nov. 9 that it was taking
profits by selling Italian bonds, board member Oliver Baete told
analysts that it was “one of the smartest things I ever did.”  Allianz said it hoped the move would help match long-dated
guaranteed insurance liabilities with assets of similar
duration, thereby reducing sensitivity to interest-rate swings.
The company has faced criticism from analysts over the size of
its interest rate exposure, which is concentrated in  Germany 
where it is a leading provider of guaranteed life savings
products, which offer a minimum interest rate on savings that
become more valuable when rates fall.  Ultra-Long  At the end of 2012, Allianz reported that the market-
consistent embedded value of its German life business, a measure
of the value of life insurance policies, would fall by 1.87
billion euros if  interest rates  fell by 100 basis points.  “We had to sell 9 billion euros of shorter-dated bonds and
then went into the very long-dated and the mix you can see here,
it was a mixture mainly of  France , Italy,  Austria  and supra-
nationals,” Zimmerer said. “These are the countries usually
that provide you with the very ultra-long bonds which you really
need for that overall business.”  Of the 4.9 billion euros of Italian bonds bought in the
first quarter, 2.3 billion euros were bought for the German life
business, according to the Feb. 22 analyst presentation. Those
bonds had an average maturity of 26 years and an average yield
of 6.4 percent, indicating that they were purchased at the end
of January. Allianz also added 3.3 billion euros of French
government bonds and 1.5 billion euros of Austrian bonds, both
with average maturities of 43 years.  Of Allianz’s remaining Italian government bond holdings, 21
billion euros is held by the insurer’s Italian subsidiaries to
back life policies sold domestically, according to the
presentation.  The 3.3 billion euros of bonds sold in the second half of
the year were short-dated securities owned by the insurer’s
Italian subsidiaries, Rupp-Menedetter said. They were sold at
close to purchase price and there was no significant impact in
terms of profit or loss, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Dunbar in  London  at 
 ndunbar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Ted Merz at 
 tmerz@bloomberg.net  