-- Hammerson Profit Beats Estimates on Better-Than-Expected Rents
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-03-01T08:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/hammerson-profit-beats-estimates-on-better-than-expected-rents.html
Hammerson Plc (HMSO) , Britain’s third-
largest real estate investment trust, reported full-year profit
that beat estimates after rents grew more than expected.  Earnings before changes in asset values and one-time items
rose to 20.9 pence a share from 19.3 pence a year earlier, the
London-based company said today in a statement. That beat 19.9
pence, the average estimate of 20 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. Tenants signed new leases at an average of 4 percent
more than expected rents, the company said. Net asset value rose
2.3 percent to 5.42 pounds a share.  Hammerson turned itself into a specialist retail-property
investor last year as it sold its London office buildings. The
company is looking for more retail projects in  France  and the
U.K. after forming a venture with  Westfield Group (WDC)  to rebuild
part of the English town of Croydon in January in a project
valued at about 1 billion pounds.  “High-quality retail assets combined with active
management can deliver good income growth even in a challenging
environment,” Chief Executive Officer David Atkins said in the
statement. “We continue to seek opportunities to enhance the
scale and efficiency of our business through further
acquisitions.”  The value of Hammerson’s 22 percent stake in outlet village
developer and operator Value Retail Plc rose 18.3 percent last
year, according to the statement. Value Retail’s nine outlet
villages in  Europe  are now worth 2.8 billion euros ($3.7
billion), Hammerson said.  Net income fell to 138.4 million pounds from 335.7 million
pounds after the company sold assets. Gross rental income
declined to 295.7 million pounds from 303.9 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 