-- Lance Armstrong, FRS Accused in Suit of False Advertising
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-03-01T18:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/lance-armstrong-frs-accused-in-suit-of-false-advertising.html
Lance Armstrong , the seven-time Tour
de France cycling race champion later stripped of those titles
for cheating, was sued for false advertising and fraud in
separate lawsuits.  Armstrong and his management company, Tailwind Sports
Corp., owe Acceptance Insurance Co. $3 million for bonuses paid
to him after he won Tour de France races in 1999, 2000, 2001
according to a complaint filed yesterday at a  Texas  state court
in Austin.  “Armstrong was never entitled to receive any of the
payments because he cheated in each race and violated the rules
and regulations of the events,” Acceptance alleged. A Tailwind
predecessor had purchased the insurance to cover the cyclist’s
contract bonuses.  The cyclist set a record by winning the French cross-
country race each year from 1999 to 2005. He was stripped of the
titles in August. Armstrong admitted in a January television
interview with  Oprah Winfrey  that he’d used a “cocktail” of
testosterone, erythropoietin and blood transfusions throughout
his career.  ‘False’ Advertising  The Nebraska-based insurer accused Armstrong and Tailwind
of fraud and breach of contract. It also claimed the defendants
had been unjustly enriched.  The cyclist was also sued yesterday with FRS Co., a
nutritional products maker for which he served as spokesman, in
Los Angeles federal court by consumers claiming Armstrong and
the company engaged in false advertising by linking his Tour de
France victories to FRS products.  “Lance’s lawyers have not reviewed the lawsuits yet and so
we don’t have anything to say,”  Mark Fabiani , a spokesman for
the cyclist, said today in a telephone interview.  In television advertisements, Armstrong had claimed FRS’s
energy and health supplements were his “secret weapon,”
according to the consumers’ case, which seeks class status on
behalf of all people who bought FRS products “based in whole or
in part” on the Armstrong marketing campaign from 2007 to 2012.  Consumers wouldn’t have bought FRS products, or would have
paid less for them, if not for the misleading ads, according to
the complaint.  Powerful Antioxidant  According to FRS’s website, its products were originally
developed to provide energy for chemotherapy patients. The
company’s products contain quercetin, “a powerful all-natural
antioxidant,” according to the website.  Carli LaForgia, a spokeswoman for the California-based
company, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail yesterday after
regular business hours seeking comment on the lawsuit.  Tailwind and Armstrong last month were sued by SCA
Promotions Inc., which seeks to recoup $12 million in prize
money paid the rider after he won the 2002, 2003 and 2004 Tour
races.  Fabiani said then that a 2006 settlement agreement barred
SCA from raising the issue. That case was filed at the U.S.
court in  Dallas .  The class action case is Martin v. FRS, 13-01456, U.S.
District Court, Central District of  California  ( Los Angeles ).
The insurance case is Acceptance Insurance Co. v. Armstrong, D-
1-GN-13-000761, Travis County, Texas, District Court (Austin).  The other bonus case is SCA Promotions Inc. v. Armstrong,
DC13-01564, District Court of Dallas County, Texas, 116th
Judicial District.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  