-- Apple Seeks Approval of Child App-Purchase Settlement
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-03-02T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/apple-seeks-approval-of-child-app-purchase-settlement.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  asked a federal judge to
approve a settlement resolving claims that the company induced
children to make game-related purchases on iPhones and iPads
without their parents’ knowledge or permission.  The agreement concerns “In-App Purchases,” for what the
complaint in the case describes as virtual supplies, ammunition,
fruits and vegetables, cash and other so-called currency used to
play games on mobile devices.  Lawyers representing Apple appeared before U.S. District
Judge Edward J. Davila in San Jose, California, yesterday to
seek preliminary approval of the agreement, which would require
Apple to send notice of its terms to more than 23 million iTunes
account holders, according to a court filing. That notice will
also provide instructions for parental controls that can disable
the purchases.  Davila congratulated the lawyers for arriving at a
settlement early in the litigation, and said he will consider
refinements to the agreement that the lawyers agreed to submit
to him March 4.  “I think this subtly suggests to you where I’m going with
this,” Davila said.  Class Credit  Under the agreement, class members may choose a $5 credit
for Cupertino, California-based Apple’s iTunes store.
Alternatively, they can get an iTunes store credit -- or a cash
refund for those who don’t have an iTunes account -- totaling
all of their minor child’s purchases within a 45-day period.
Class members claiming they were charged $30 or more without
their consent can choose a cash refund instead of the iTunes
credits, according to court filings.  Addressing Davila’s concerns, Ashlie Beringer, a lawyer
representing Apple, said the company will mail the notice for
those who can’t be reached by e-mail, and that Apple will also
offer a version of the notice online in Spanish.  The plaintiffs’ motion for approval of the agreement is
unopposed, according to the filings.  The games that triggered the litigation are “highly
addictive, designed deliberately so, and tend to compel children
playing them to purchase large quantities of game currency,
amounting to as much as $100 per purchase or more,” according
to the complaint in the case. The original complaint was filed
in 2011.  ‘Extensive Negotiations’  The settlement was arrived at after “extensive
negotiations” with mediators Daniel Weinstein and Catherine
Yanni, according to a filing. Apple will pay attorneys’ fees of
$1.3 million, according to the agreement.  Apple spokesman Tom Neumayr and Simon Paris, a lawyer
representing the class members, declined to comment on the
hearing.  The case is In re Apple In-App Purchase Litigation, 11-
cv-01758, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  