-- Apple Award Cut With New Trial for Some Samsung Products
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-03-02T08:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/apple-patent-judge-orders-new-trial-on-some-samsung-products.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s $1.05 billion victory
against  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  in a patent-infringement case
was cut about 45 percent by a judge who ordered a new trial on
damages for some Samsung products after finding the jury erred.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in  San Jose ,  California ,
yesterday reduced the jury’s damages award by $450.5 million.
The jury based its award for 14 Samsung products on an incorrect
legal theory, Koh ruled, saying the companies should consider
appealing her ruling before any trial begins.  A witness for Apple whose testimony the jury relied on
“presented a theory that the court had ruled legally
impermissible,” Koh said in her ruling. The judge said that
despite her explicit instruction that the theory couldn’t be
used, “the amount of the award made plain that the jury had
applied the impermissible theory anyway.”  Koh, who had previously rejected Apple’s bid to ban U.S.
sales on 26 of the Galaxy maker’s devices, also denied the
iPhone maker’s request to increase the jury’s award, saying the
amount Samsung owed was heavily disputed and the jury wasn’t
bound to accept either side’s damages estimate. The jury’s award
for 14 other products stands at $598.9 million, she said.  “This is an extremely careful and thorough opinion on a
very difficult and interrelated set of issues,” Stanford Law
School professor Mark A. Lemley said in an e-mail. “Samsung
will get some reduction in the award, but almost certainly less
than $450 million -- we’ll need a new trial to figure that
out.”  ‘Delayed’ Trial  The two companies have shown “no sign of giving an inch,
and I’m not sure that will change now,” Lemley added. “My
guess is that you’ll see appeals that will clarify some things,
but that just means the trial will be delayed for a while.”  Samsung and Apple, the world’s two biggest smartphone
makers, have each scored victories in patent disputes fought
over four continents since Apple accused  Asia ’s biggest
electronics maker of “slavishly copying” its devices. The
companies, competing for dominance of a global mobile-device
market estimated by researcher  Yankee Group  at $346 billion in
2012, are fighting over patents even as Apple remains one of
Samsung’s biggest customers.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, is entitled to
additional damages for sales of infringing products that weren’t
considered by the jury, Koh ruled, saying she intends to
calculate the amount beginning on Aug. 25, the day after the
jury reached its verdict. As the case has been appealed, Koh
said she would delay considering evidence of actual post-verdict
sales and pre-judgment interest until the appeals are completed.  Jury Erred  The jury appears to have erred by awarding damages on
Samsung profit for products that infringed only utility patents,
which isn’t legally permitted, Koh said. In addition, portions
of the damages awarded for patent infringement were excessive
because they may have included compensation for infringement
before Samsung was on notice that Apple owned the intellectual
property, Koh said.  The 14 products requiring a new damages trial are: the
Galaxy Prevail, Gem, Indulge, Infuse 4G, Galaxy SII AT&T,
Captivate, Continuum, Droid Charge, Epic 4G, Exhibit 4G, Galaxy
Tab, Nexus S 4G, Replenish and Transform, according to the
ruling.  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, said the company had
no comment on the ruling.  Adam Yates , a spokesman for Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail yesterday
seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  