-- Argentina Told by Court to Provide Bond Payment Formula
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-03-02T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/argentina-asked-by-u-s-court-to-provide-bondholder-pay-formula.html
Argentina  was directed by a U.S.
appeals court to provide a suggested formula for paying the
holders of defaulted bonds that are the subject of a $1.3
billion lawsuit before the court.  The New York-based appeals court said in an order yesterday
that Argentina’s lawyer, in an oral argument on Feb. 27,
“appeared to propose” an alternative to the payment formula
devised by a lower-court judge in the case.  In November, U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa said
Argentina must pay the entire $1.3 billion claimed by a group of
creditors led by Elliott Management Corp.’s NML Capital Ltd.,
whenever it makes any payment on its restructured debt.  The South American nation defaulted on a record $95 billion
of sovereign debt in 2001, resulting in lawsuits by many of its
creditors that are pending in Griesa’s court.  The appeals court said today that Argentina must tell it by
March 29 how and when it proposes to make current its payments
on the defaulted bonds, the rate it proposes to pay on the
defaulted bonds and any assurances it can give that Argentina’s
government will take the necessary actions to make the payments.  Lock Law  Argentina’s legislature in 2005 passed a so-called lock law
barring payment on the defaulted bonds. The March 29 deadline
for Argentina to respond may signal the earliest date by which
the court could decide the appeal.  Jonathan Blackman, a lawyer representing Argentina in the
case, didn’t immediately respond to a voice-mail message seeking
comment on yesterday’s order.  The newspaper El Cronista reported that Argentina may
accelerate debt payments to bondholders this year to avoid the
possibility the court will allow Griesa to block payments to
holders of Argentina’s restructured debt. El Cronista didn’t say
how it obtained the information.  Yields on notes sold under U.S. law due 2017 dropped 232
basis points, or 2.32 percentage points, to 17.66 percent at
1:01 p.m. in  New York . The extra yield that investors demand to
hold Argentine government dollar bonds instead of U.S.
Treasuries plunged 83 basis points to 1,203 basis points,
according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s EMBI Global index.  The lower court case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of
Argentina, 08-06978, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York ( Manhattan ). The appeal is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic
of Argentina, 12-00105,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second
Circuit (New York).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in the U.S. Court of Appeals in New York at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  