-- Harris Turns Red in ‘Phantom’; ‘Jack’; ‘Stoker’: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-03-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/harris-turns-red-in-phantom-jack-stoker-movies.html
  The villain of the Cold War
thriller “ Phantom ” is an ideological maniac (David Duchovny)
who takes his orders “from the most zealous elements of the
KGB,” and thinks touching off a nuclear war will be good for
the  Soviet Union .  The year is 1968, the setting a Soviet submarine. The man
who must stop him is the sub’s broken-down, epileptic captain
( Ed Harris ), a political moderate who kind of likes Americans.  Distress over governmental dysfunction must be seeping into
the popular culture: Duchovny’s hard-liner resembles no one so
much as the Congressional ideologues who are ready to accept a
sequester that will blow up the economy.  The writer-director, Todd Robinson, is eager to take on
large themes. But he doesn’t have the basic technique to make
the story or the action (when there is some) comprehensible.  He shoots in deep murk and writes dialogue to match. The
actors bark out opaque nautical jargon, occasionally pausing to
ponder (“Do you think we can be redeemed for the things we’ve
done?”).  As sailors chased each other around the sub, some desperate
to neutralize its warhead, others to foil them, I couldn’t tell
who was where or which side they were on or even whether the
missile had been disarmed. It’s possible I nodded off.  “Phantom,” from RCR Media Group, is playing across the
U.S. Rating: * (Seligman)  Bean There  Another bedtime story gets supersized with digital effects
and a prestige budget in “ Jack the Giant Slayer ,” director
Bryan Singer’s likeable if overinflated take on magic beans and
the trouble they cause.  More fun than either “ The Hobbit ” or “ Snow White and the
Huntsman ” (what isn’t?), “Jack” comes close to justifying
adult-level investment in kid-brained fancy.  Embellishing -- if not improving -- the familiar folk tale,
the movie’s outline follows tradition. Farm boy trades horse for
beans, climbs stalk, battles big bullies.  But Singer and his team of screenwriters don’t shy from
raiding more modern entertainments.  A headstrong princess (Eleanor Tomlinson), her kindhearted
father ( Ian McShane ) and blackhearted betrothed (Stanley Tucci)
are pure latter-day Disney, and Ewan McGregor’s dashing knight
could probably handle a light saber.  Warty Skin  Adopting a more-is-better approach, Singer multiplies the
traditional tale’s solo villain into a race of humongous
“Hobbit”-like trolls with earthen, warty skin and belching,
nose-picking bad manners.  With one or two exceptions, though, the giants lack
distinct, compelling personalities. The best quirk is a visual
one: the ogre’s leader ( Bill Nighy , given the motion-capture
treatment) has a second smaller (and dumber) head sprouting
grotesquely from his shoulder.  As Jack, “ Warm Bodies ” actor Nicholas Hoult, in
distressed leather and a hipster hoodie, gives his second
winning performance in as many months, skipping smirks for
sincerity.  Would that Singer had given his heroine more appeal.
Despite her initial pluck, Tomlinson’s Isabelle turns trophy
princess just when some heroic revisionism might make “Jack”
more than a gigantic near-miss.  “Jack the Giant Slayer,” from  Warner Bros. Pictures , is
playing across the U.S. Rating: *** (Evans)  Hitchcock Homage  No vampires were harmed (or portrayed) in “ Stoker ,” South
Korean director Park Chan-wook’s mannered Hitchcock homage with
a misleading title and a studied air.  Written by actor Wentworth Miller (“ Prison Break ”) and
having nothing to do with “Dracula” or its author, “Stoker”
takes inspiration from  Alfred Hitchcock ’s 1943 “ Shadow of a
Doubt ,” even name-checking that film’s all-smiles killer Uncle
Charlie.  This Charlie is played by swoony Matthew Goode. Upon the
mysterious death of his long-estranged brother (Dermot Mulroney), the debonair bachelor comes calling on his grieving,
sex-starved sister-in-law Evelyn Stoker ( Nicole Kidman ) and
morbid, pouty niece  India  (Mia Wasikowska).  At once resentful of their familial intruder and attracted
to him, the grim India calls up her hunter’s training: watch,
wait, go in for the kill.  Miller’s big contribution to the cat-and-mouse genre is the
fangs he gives his mouse -- little compensation, though, for a
script that has more holes than the Stokers’ body-filled garden.  The director, making his English-language debut, seems to
take the pedestrian script as a both a challenge and a
permission slip. He stuffs any 10 minutes of “Stoker” with
more artificial dread than the whole of “ Black Swan .” The
result will likely be as polarizing.  “Stoker,” from  Fox Searchlight Pictures , is playing in
select theaters. Rating: ** (Evans)  ‘Table,’ ‘Witch’  Two movies reviewed earlier at their film festival
premieres also open this week: “A Place at the Table”
(***1/2), a cri de coeur against hunger in America and
governmental indifference, has only grown in relevance since its
2012 debut at Sundance.  Kim Nguyen’s “War Witch” (***), seen at the Tribeca Film
Festival, is a lyrical film highlighted by the lovely,
understated performance of Rachel Mwanza. As a 12-year-old
African village girl kidnapped by rebels and forced into
brutality, Mwanza guides the audience through a nightmare beyond
most comprehension. (Evans)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  New
York   Weekend .  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . and Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 