-- Marubeni Plans First Dollar Bonds Since 2006, Debt Risk Rises
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r   a n d   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 2013-03-01T07:04:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/marubeni-plans-first-dollar-bonds-since-2006-debt-risk-rises.html
Marubeni Corp. (8002) , Japan’s biggest
trader of agricultural commodities, is planning its first
dollar-denominated bonds since 2006 as issuance in the Asia-
Pacific region approaches a three-week high. Debt risk rose.  The company hired Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to arrange fixed-income meetings from
March 5, said a person familiar with the matter. Marubeni’s unit
Mirant JPSCO Finance Ltd. last sold U.S. currency notes in June
2006. The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan rose 1 basis point to 108.5 basis points
as of 8:26 a.m. in  Hong Kong , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
prices show.  Dollar bond offerings in the Asia-Pacific region reached
$4.35 billion this week, nearing the highest since the five-day
period to Feb. 1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Marubeni, rated two levels above junk by Moody’s Investors
Service Inc. and  Standard & Poor’s , is buying the U.S grain
trader Gavilon Group LLC for $5.6 billion as incoming Chief
Executive Officer Fumiya Kokubu targets a 50 percent increase in
annual profit.  “The climate in the market for investment-grade issuers is
getting very good, even for BBB ones like Marubeni,” Toshiyasu Ohashi, chief credit analyst for Daiwa Securities Co., said in a
telephone interview from  Tokyo  today. “It would have been
difficult for companies with Marubeni’s credit ratings to issue
bonds overseas until recently.”  Marubeni’s Swaps  The cost to insure Marubeni’s debt against non-payment
dropped 23 basis points this year to 121 basis points yesterday,
reaching the lowest since May 2011 on Feb. 6, according to data-
provider CMA. The decline is less than the 34 basis point drop
for the benchmark Markit iTraxx  Japan  index during the same
period.  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601) , Japan’s second-biggest
brokerage, was the last similarly-rated Japanese borrower to
issue dollar debt, with a sale of $67 million of notes on Nov.
15, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The bond matures in
December 2017 and pays a coupon of 1.4 percent.  Moody’s rates Marubeni at Baa2 and S&P’s ranks it BBB,
Bloomberg data show.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index, which has ranged from 102.8
to 120.3 since Dec. 31, is poised to decline for a fourth-
consecutive week, according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index added 0.5 basis point to
115 as of 10:38 a.m. in Sydney,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  prices
show. The benchmark is set to increase for the first time in
three days, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private market.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index also rose 0.5 basis point to
125 as of 9:13 a.m. in Tokyo, according to Deutsche Bank AG
prices. The measure, which started the year at 148.1, dropped
for a fifth straight month in February, CMA prices show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net ;
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  