-- Australian Towns Awarded A$20 Million in S&P Ratings Case
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-03-01T08:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/australian-towns-awarded-21-million-in-s-p-ratings-case.html
Standard & Poor’s and two other
defendants were ordered to pay about A$20 million ($20 million)
to Australian towns for losses on top-rated securities whose
value plunged during the global financial crisis.  Australia Federal Court Justice Jayne Jagot, who in
November found S&P, ABN Amro Bank NV and Local Government
Financial Services Pty. liable for misleading the towns, today
 ordered  them to pay the sum plus costs, according to a
regulatory filing from IMF (Australia) Ltd., which funded the
action. S&P said it would appeal.  Twelve Australian councils lost more than 90 percent of the
A$16 million they invested in notes rated AAA by S&P. The
ratings company unit of  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP)  was accused by the U.S.
last month in a separate lawsuit of inflating grades on
mortgage-backed securities to win business, helping trigger the
worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  “The ruling is at odds with a number of well-established
legal principles,” Richard Noonan, an S&P spokesman, said in an
e-mailed statement on the Australian case. “These ratings were
based on the good faith judgment of analysts.”  The U.S. is seeking as much as $5 billion in damages in its
lawsuit filed Feb. 4 in Los Angeles. S&P rated more than $2.8
trillion of residential mortgage-backed securities and about
$1.2 trillion of collateralized-debt obligations from September
2004 through October 2007, according to the U.S. complaint.  Ratings Downgrade  The “egregious” conduct of S&P and McGraw-Hill “goes to
the very heart of the recent financial crisis,” U.S. Attorney
General Eric Holder said in a news conference Feb. 5. More than
a dozen U.S. states have followed with their own lawsuits, and
Moody’s Investors Service downgraded McGraw-Hill’s ratings last
month after taking into account the U.S. federal suit.  The company bent rating models to suit its business needs
to the extent that one CDO analyst commented that loosening the
measure of default risk for a certain security in 2006
“resulted in a loophole in S&P’s rating model big enough to
drive a Mack truck through,” the U.S. said.  In  Australia , the so-called Rembrandt notes were arranged
by ABN Amro Bank NV, now part of Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, rated by S&P, and sold to the Australian councils by
municipal adviser Local Government Financial Services.  Sebastian Venus, who had prepared an internal model for the
notes at S&P, accused the analyst responsible for rating them of
being a “wuss” who gave in to pressure from ABN Amro Bank NV
in giving the highest grade.  “You rate something AAA, when it’s really A-?,” Venus
said in an e-mail submitted during the trial.  The securities were unwound less than two years after the
towns bought them because credit spreads kept increasing and
their cash value was exhausted, according to a court filing.  Shares of  IMF (IMF)  rose 3 percent to A$1.73 today.  The Australian case is: Bathurst Regional Council v. Local
Government Financial Services Pty. NSD1268/2010. Federal Court
of Australia (Sydney). The U.S. case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill,
13-00779, U.S. District Court, Central District of  California 
(Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  