-- Baht Leads Weekly Advance in Asian Currencies on Growth Optimism
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-03-01T09:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/baht-leads-weekly-advance-in-asian-currencies-on-growth-optimism.html
Asian currencies gained this week,
led by the  Thai baht  and  Indonesia ’s rupiah, on optimism the
region’s economies are improving.  Thailand’s  overseas sales  climbed 16.1 percent in January
from a year earlier, exceeding the 13.4 percent median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey and the 13.5 percent gain in December,
official data showed on Feb. 27.  Malaysia ’s improving exports
and domestic demand will help the economy expand 5 percent this
year, according to an International Monetary Fund staff
forecast. Currency gains were limited on concern Europe’s debt
crisis and U.S. spending cuts will deter risk-taking.  “The growth differentials between  Asia  and the developed
world will attract flows of portfolio investment,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Credit Agricole CIB strategist in  Hong Kong .
“There are concerns related to  Italy ,  China  and the U.S. that
may delay the further influx of funds in the near term. But we
believe they may give good buying opportunities.”  The baht strengthened 0.3 percent this week to 29.75 per
dollar as of 3:25 p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The rupiah climbed 0.3 percent to 9,675, the ringgit
advanced 0.2 percent to 3.0967 and the Chinese  yuan  appreciated
0.2 percent to 6.2237. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index,
which tracks the 10 most-active Asian currencies excluding the
yen, rose 0.1 percent.  The  U.S. Senate  rejected a pair of partisan proposals
yesterday to replace $85 billion in automatic spending cuts set
to begin today, which the  International Monetary Fund  says will
hurt global growth. Italy had inconclusive election results this
week, spurring concern Europe’s debt crisis will worsen.  China Manufacturing  China’s manufacturing slowed for a second month, with the
 Purchasing Managers ’ Index at 50.1 in February, the National
Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said today in Beijing. That compares with the 50.5
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 31 analysts and
50.4 in January. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  The baht had a second weekly advance as data showed
overseas funds increased holdings of the nation’s debt.
International investors bought $2.7 billion more sovereign notes
than they sold in February, according to figures from the Thai
Bond Market Association.  “The central bank has quite a bullish growth outlook and
that is positive for further fund inflows,” said Tohru
Nishihama, an economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc.
in  Tokyo . “A surge in imports also shows domestic demand is
strong, and that fits in with the growth story.”  Indonesian Rupiah  The rupiah had the first week of gains since the five days
ended Feb. 8. Foreign funds bought $255 million more local
stocks than they sold this week through yesterday, driving the
 Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  of shares to an all-time high today. The
economy may expand 6.3 percent this year, compared with 6.2
percent in 2012, according to a Bloomberg survey.  “The rupiah’s strengthening has been driven by demand from
foreign funds for local assets,” said Mika Martumpal, a
currency analyst at PT Bank CIMB Niaga in Jakarta. “Investors
are still seeking higher returns where they can find it, and
they see strong growth potential in Indonesia.”  The ringgit touched the highest level in almost two weeks
yesterday. Malaysia’s gross domestic product may expand faster
in 2013 than last year’s 5.6 percent pace, driven by investment
and domestic consumption, Nor Mohamed Yakcop, a minister in
Prime Minister Najib Razak’s department, was quoted as saying in
a Feb. 23 Business Times report. Najib, who must dissolve
parliament by April 28 to call for polls, has embarked on a 10-
year, $444 billion infrastructure spending plan.  Election Risk  “A lot of the Economic Transformation Program projects are
going to kick in in a bigger way this year, so that will help
sustain investment,” said Choong Yin Pheng, senior manager for
fixed income and economic research at Hong Leong Bank Bhd. in
 Kuala Lumpur . “In the short term, people will still be focused
on the event risk, which is the elections.”  Malaysia will tighten rules on the daily setting of a key
dollar-ringgit  reference rate  from today in an effort to boost
transparency and shield the domestic market against
manipulation, according to a draft statement from the Financial
Markets Association of Malaysia obtained by Bloomberg yesterday.  India’s rupee weakened 1 percent from a week ago to 54.75
per dollar after the government announced yesterday an increase
in annual spending. Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram
boosted his expenditure target for the year starting April 1 by
16 percent to 16.7 trillion rupees ($306 billion), fueling
concern public finances will worsen.  Elsewhere in Asia, Taiwan’s dollar was little changed from
last week at NT$29.666 against the greenback, according to
prices from Taipei Forex Inc. The Philippine peso was at 40.688,
versus 40.685 on Feb. 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  