-- Bair Says Regulators Lack Spine to Name Systemic Firms
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-03-01T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/bair-says-regulators-lack-spine-to-name-systemic-firms.html
Sheila Bair , former chairman of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., said U.S. regulators lack the
nerve to designate non-bank financial companies systemically
important and aren’t doing their job.  “It’s lack of will, it’s lack of courage, it’s lack of
spine,” Bair said in a telephone interview yesterday. “You can
quote me on that and they’ll be angry with me, but I don’t care.
This is outrageous.”  The Financial Stability Oversight Council, led by new
 Treasury Secretary  Jacob J. Lew, met yesterday in Washington and
discussed companies it is considering designating for Federal
Reserve oversight.  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , Prudential
Financial Inc. and General Electric Co.’s finance unit are in
the final stage of review by the council, a group of regulators
created by the Dodd-Frank law to prevent another financial
crisis.  “What’s frustrating is the ones that we said were systemic
during the crisis, like AIG and  GE Capital , they can’t even say
that they’re systemic,” said Bair, who led the FDIC during the
2008 financial crisis. “We seem to be able to decide in a
nanosecond if it involves shoveling taxpayer money out the door
to keep these guys afloat.”  Anthony Coley , a Treasury spokesman, referred to testimony
by  Mary Miller , the Treasury’s undersecretary for domestic
finance. On Feb. 14, Miller told the Senate Banking Committee
that the council has taken “significant steps to designate and
increase oversight of financial companies whose failure or
distress” could hurt financial stability.  Target Missed  Lew, sworn in yesterday as Treasury secretary, heads the
council, which also includes the chairmen of the Fed, FDIC and
Securities and Exchange Commission. The panel missed former
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ’s target of designating
some non-bank financial companies as systemically important by
the end of 2012.  In addition to reviewing firms in the final stage of the
process, the FSOC last year designated eight so-called financial
market utilities as systemically important. The companies, which
are involved in clearing, payment and settlement systems, are
now subject to higher risk-management standards and Fed
oversight, Miller told the committee.  The council should have been able to make systemic-risk
designations six months after Dodd-Frank was enacted in July
2010, said Bair, who is now a senior adviser to the Pew
Charitable Trusts and heads the Systemic Risk Council, a private
watchdog group focused on regulatory issues. Regulators have the
authority to act and aren’t “doing their job.”  “I don’t like to criticize my former colleagues, but
unless people start holding them more accountable to do this,
it’s not going to get done,” Bair said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  