-- Banks Get Calls Seeking BoC Candidate Better Than Macklem
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-03-01T16:54:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/banks-get-calls-seeking-boc-candidate-better-than-macklem.html
The company hired to find a
replacement for departing  Bank of Canada  Governor Mark Carney is
looking for a star external candidate, even as consensus builds
around Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem as the front-runner
for the job.  Odgers Berndtson LLC, the search firm overseeing the hiring
process, has called chief economists from some of the country’s
largest banks, asking for names of possible candidates.  “They want to be able to go back to Canadians and say we
looked under every nook and cranny,” said  Craig Alexander ,
chief economist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , who said he was called
two weeks ago. While “Tiff appears to be the most likely
candidate to succeed Governor Carney, at the same time, the
government is evaluating all the potential candidates.”  Carney, 47, will step down on June 1, 20 months before his
seven-year term expires, to take over the Bank of England a
month later, leaving his successor to manage an economy growing
at the slowest pace since the global financial crisis.  Jacqueline Foley, a spokeswoman for Odgers Berndtson, said
her company doesn’t comment on searches because of
confidentiality agreements.  “They were looking for suggestions,”  Carlos Leitao , chief
economist at Laurentian Bank Securities Inc., said about the
call he received, declining to comment further.  While Macklem, 51, has been the near-unanimous choice of
economists and analysts asked about the appointment, the
previous two selections passed over the senior deputies who had
been seen as favorites.  Job Advertisement  The 12 outside directors on the bank’s board started the
job search last month, placing an  advertisement  in newspapers.
In a Jan. 17 statement, Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said he
will be directly involved in the selection of Carney’s
replacement. The directors and government are looking at a broad
pool of candidates beyond internal choices, a person with
knowledge of the process told  Bloomberg News  in January.  Choosing Macklem would represent an endorsement of existing
Bank of  Canada  policy, said  Shaun Osborne , chief foreign
exchange strategist at TD Securities Inc., which has been to
maintain a tightening bias in the face of deteriorating economic
conditions, even as central bank policy makers in other Group of
Seven countries add stimulus.  “If it is an external candidate, it would, even at the
margin, perhaps increase market speculation that the next move
is not going to be up,” Osborne said.  Benchmark Rate  The Bank of Canada is the only G-7 central bank to have a
bias to raise  interest rates . Still, the country’s benchmark
rate is the lowest in the Group of 20 nations outside Europe,
Japan and the U.S.  Carney “has certainly been pragmatic and quite flexible
with his approach to monetary policy,” Osborne said by
telephone. “All else being equal, the bank probably would have
preferred to have had  interest rates  a little bit higher than
they are right now.”  Canada’s dollar was little changed in the days following
Carney’s announcement on Nov. 26 that he would be leaving to
take the  Bank of England  posting. The currency has fallen 3.6
percent against the U.S. since Jan. 23, when Carney said rate
increases were “less imminent.”  ‘No Radical Changes’  “We don’t expect any radical changes, as in extremely
dovish or extremely bearish,” said Aubrey Basdeo, head of
Canadian fixed income at BlackRock Canada, a unit of BlackRock
Inc., the world’s biggest asset manager. “The market is not
sensing that anyone will come in with a very strong bias one way
or the other.”  Other potential candidates include Stephen Poloz, chief
executive officer at  Export Development Canada , Bank of Canada
deputy governors Timothy Lane and Agathe Cote, and Jean Boivin,
who left the central bank last year to become Flaherty’s adviser
on G-20 matters.  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  Vice Chairman Kevin Lynch,
Chris Ragan of  McGill University  in  Montreal  and Andrew Spence
of the Ontario Municipal Employees Retirement System may also be
considered.  “From the set of people I would consider candidates, I
think Tiff is the ideal candidate,” said  Craig Wright , chief
economist at Royal Bank of Canada, referring to Macklem.  Limited Pool  The pool of potential candidates is limited because the job
requires a unique set of skills, said TD’s Alexander. The ideal
candidate would have a background in monetary policy economics,
experience at the Bank of Canada or finance department and know
“how Ottawa works,” he said.  “One of their challenges is that there is a very finite
number of names that are out there as potential candidates,”
Alexander says. “The recruitment groups have their work cut out
for them.”  Macklem, a Montreal native, was hired by the central bank
as an economist in 1984, later getting a doctorate in economics
from Western University in  London , Ontario. He first joined the
rate-setting panel in December 2004 and has been senior deputy
since July 2010. Macklem also leads a policy committee at the
Financial Stability Board, the Basel, Switzerland-based body led
by Carney and charged by the Group of 20 nations with
strengthening global financial rules.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  