-- Banker Pay, Monte Paschi Bailout, Auto-ABS: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-03-01T13:25:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/banker-pay-monte-paschi-bailout-auto-abs-compliance.html
European plans to levy the world’s
toughest bonus restrictions on bankers drew condemnation in
London as the industry warned it may backfire as firms raise
fixed pay instead.  The agreement of European Parliament lawmakers and
government officials in Brussels yesterday to ban bonuses that
are more than twice bankers’ fixed pay starting Jan. 1, if
ratified by European Union countries and the full Parliament,
will be a blow to banks in the 27 member states, pay consultants
and the U.K. government said.  The City, as the London district is known, is the world’s
 No. 1 financial center , according to consulting firm Z/Yen Group
Ltd., and is the European securities operations hub of firms
including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , UBS AG and  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN) 
It’s also home to a financial-services industry where employment
may fall to a 20-year low in 2013 and that has been plagued by
scandals including  interest-rate  rigging and government bailouts
of U.K. banks.  About half of European investment-banking activity is
conducted through London and the U.K.’s financial firms
generated almost 12 percent of the country’s tax revenue from
2011 to 2012, according to TheCityUK, a bank lobbying group.  U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron’s spokesman, Jean-
Christophe Gray, told reporters in London yesterday that the
impact on competitiveness should be considered. He said that
smaller bonuses would mean larger basic pay, which isn’t subject
to any delay or clawback.  Banks have already increased base salaries as a proportion
of total compensation after European regulators, including those
in the U.K. and France, restricted when and in what form bankers
can be paid after the financial crisis.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Car Loans Help Drive Poland Regulator Toward ABS Market  Poland’s financial watchdog is seeking to help banks fund
lending more cheaply by developing the asset-backed  securities
market  as the nation faces its worst economic slowdown in more
than a decade.  The Financial Services Authority is studying the ABS market
and will propose regulatory changes, Wojciech Kwasniak, the
FSA’s deputy chairman, said in an e-mail Feb. 27.  Getin Noble
Bank SA (GNB) , Poland’s second-largest mortgage provider, sold 518.7
million zloty ($163 million) of debt backed by  car loans  in
December, the nation’s first such sale since before the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  For a country opening the ABS market, sales can reach
between 5 percent and 10 percent of banks’ mortgage loans,
according to  Bank of America Merrill Lynch . The Polish regulator
is trying to spur lending growth as the economy will expand this
year at the slowest pace since 2001 amid a slump in consumption
and investment, the European Commission said on Feb 22.  Poland needs to bring legal and tax rules governing asset
backed securities more in line with western Europe, Pawel
Lopuszynski, Warsaw-based head of Treasury at BRE Bank
Hipoteczny SA, said by phone Feb. 27.  For more, click here.  Malaysia Said to Tighten Onshore Dollar-Ringgit Fixing Rules  Malaysia is said to tighten its onshore dollar-ringgit
fixing rules beginning today.  The new rules will narrow the spread to 10 pips from 20
pips.  The stricter guidelines “are an apparent response to
heightened global scrutiny of other benchmark global interest
rates,” the Wall Street Journal reported earlier this week.  The guidelines are expected to improve the transparency of
the daily reference price “for the onshore U.S. dollar-
Malaysian rinngit  exchange rate , known as fixing,” the Journal
reported, citing a notice provided to banks by the Financial
Markets Association Malaysia.  Compliance Action  Monte Paschi Receives $5.3 Billion Bailout From Italy  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA , Italy’s third-largest
bank, received a 4.07 billion-euro ($5.3 billion) bailout from
the Italian state to help it reach a capital requirement set by
European regulators.  The funds include 171 million euros to cover interest
payments on existing aid as Monte Paschi will probably incur a
loss for 2012, the bank said in a statement yesterday. Monte
Paschi received 1.9 billion euros in state aid in 2009 through
the issue of so-called Tremonti bonds, which have been converted
into new securities and form part of the amount requested.  The bank will likely need more help going forward, as bad
loans continue to rise and its operating profits struggle,
analysts at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London said.  Italy approved a law last year allowing Monte Paschi to
raise funds by selling securities to the government, labeled
“Monti” bonds after Prime Minister  Mario Monti . The securities
have a 9 percent coupon that may rise to as much as 15 percent.
In case of losses, Monte Paschi may pay the annual interest on
aid by giving shares to the government.  Google Called Before EU Data Watchdogs Over Privacy Concerns  Google Inc. (GOOG)  will have to appear before a group of European
Union data-privacy watchdogs as part of a probe that may lead to
what the regulators called coordinated “repressive action”
after it failed to fix flaws in its privacy policy.  Google will be called to appear “in the coming weeks” as
regulators prepare for “repressive action, which should start
before the summer,” France’s National Commission for Computing
and Civil Liberties, or CNIL, said in an online  statement 
yesterday.  “Our privacy policy respects European law and allows us to
create simpler, more effective services,” Google spokesman Al
Verney said by phone. “We have engaged fully with the CNIL
throughout this process and will continue to do so going
forward.”  The  Article 29 Data Protection Working Party , which
comprises national privacy authorities in the EU, decided to
pursue Google after a two-day meeting in Brussels, after which
it sent a letter with a list of recommendations.  CNIL Chairwoman Isabelle Falque-Pierrotin  said  last year
the French authority may fine  Mountain View , California-based
Google for not complying, calling it “probable” that other
European agencies would pursue Google if it didn’t.  Google may face repressive action because it failed to give
“any precise and effective” responses to the EU group’s
recommendations, CNIL said last week. Google said then that it
had answered on Jan. 8, listing changes it’s made to improve the
protections and asking to meet to discuss the case.  U.S. Regulators Lay Out Compensation Plan for Foreclosure Accord  About 4.2 million borrowers who went through foreclosures
will hear from Rust Consulting Inc. within 31 days to outline
their compensation under a settlement with 13 mortgage
servicers, according to U.S. bank regulators.  The final details of an agreement with the largest U.S.
mortgage servicers were released yesterday by the Federal
Reserve and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, who said
that Rust was hired as the agent tasked with giving out $3.6
billion in cash payments to those  foreclosed  on in 2009 and
2010. Individual borrowers will receive as much as $125,000,
depending on how their harm is categorized by the servicers.  The regulators reached the settlement in January for
foreclosure faults after a U.S. housing-market collapse
contributed to the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression. Another $5.7 billion is set to be spent by the firms
on preventing future foreclosures and keeping borrowers in their
homes.  Mortgage servicers were accused of engaging in improper
foreclosure methods in 2009 and 2010, including so-called robo-
signing of documents. Regulators initially ordered servicers to
obtain independent reviews. That process was ended at those
firms signing this latest settlement.  Courts  Convicted Ex-UBS Trader Adoboli Seeks to Overturn Jail Sentence  Convicted  UBS AG (UBSN)  trader Kweku Adoboli asked a British
appeals court to overturn his seven-year prison sentence for
causing a $2.3 billion loss through unauthorized trades.  Adoboli, 32, was convicted in November of two counts of
fraud for causing the loss at the bank’s London unit. He filed
the request to have his case reviewed with the U.K. Court of
Appeal in London in December, according to court records made
available this week. The appeals court must decide whether to
hear the case.  Adoboli pleaded not guilty and argued at trial that
managers at the Swiss bank pushed him to take too many risks and
that rule-breaking at the bank was rampant. While he admitted
causing the loss, he said it wasn’t done dishonestly. Adoboli
was ordered to serve at least half of the seven-year term. He is
serving his sentence at  Verne Prison  on the Isle of Portland, a
jail on a small island off the south coast of Dorset, England,
that was once a military barracks. He has joined the choir and
taken on a volunteer role at the prison.  While the 10-member jury was unanimous in finding Adoboli
guilty of one count of fraud during the period in which the loss
was caused, jurors didn’t reach unanimous decisions on the
remaining fraud count and on four counts of false accounting. He
was convicted 9-1 on the second fraud charge, which dated back
to 2008, and acquitted on the false accounting charges.  His lawyer,  Tim Harris , didn’t immediately respond to a
request for comment. UBS spokesman  Richard Morton  declined to
comment.  Interviews  RBS Chairman Hampton Says Bank Targeting Government Sale in 2014  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc Chairman  Philip Hampton 
said it would be “very good” if the bank was positioned for
the government to start selling its 81 percent stake in 2014.  Hampton made the remarks to reporters yesterday in London,
adding that the bank hit a number of milestones during 2012.  Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester , who succeeded  Fred
Goodwin  in 2008, has cut 907 billion pounds ($1.4 billion) of
assets, eliminated more than 36,000 jobs and scaled back the
securities unit following a 45.5 billion-pound bailout during
the banking crisis. 2013 will be the last “really big” year of
restructuring for Britain’s biggest government-owned lender,
Hester, 52, told reporters yesterday.  It will be for the government to decide when to start
selling its holding and when the bank can resume dividend
payments, Hester said. The Edinburgh-based bank would
“ideally” start paying dividends at the earliest opportunity,
he said.  The government hasn’t set a timetable for the disposal of
its stake in RBS, Jean-Christophe Gray, Prime Minister  David
Cameron ’s spokesman, told reporters yesterday in London.  Efforts to reduce the U.K.’s holding are being hampered by
regulatory fines for manipulating Libor and the payment of
compensation to customers who were wrongly sold loan insurance
and interest rate hedging products.  Aso Says Japan Post May Not Have Expertise to Approve Mortgages  Japanese Financial Services Minister Taro Aso signaled
concern about Japan Post Holdings Co.’s plan to start
residential and corporate lending, saying the state-run company
doesn’t have the necessary expertise.  Aso made the remarks during a meeting with heads of
financial lobby groups at the agency Feb. 28.  The state-owned parent of the bank and insurance units
applied for government approval in September to start offering
mortgages and corporate loans from April.  The Japanese Bankers Association is among groups that have
opposed Japan Post’s entry to loan market, saying the move would
distort fair competition.  Comings and Goings  Skills Shortage Boosts Courses, Scholars Sit on Shariah Boards  Islamic finance institutions are adding new courses as
global demand for skilled staff outstrips the supply of new
graduates by 10 times, threatening to slow the industry’s 19
percent annual growth.  Some 5,000 students are graduating each year, compared with
a worldwide shortage of 50,000 professionals, Muhammad Zubair
Mughal, chief executive officer of the AlHuda Center of Islamic
Banking and Economics in Lahore, Pakistan, said in a Feb. 23 e-
mail. Sales of bonds that comply with the religion’s ban on
interest rose 26 percent to a record in 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, while countries such as  Egypt , Morocco
and Russia are looking to sell sukuk for the first time.  Islamic banking assets at commercial lenders increased 24
percent to $1.3 trillion in 2011, taking annual average growth
over the four years through 2011 to 19 percent, according to an
Ernst & Young  report  released in December. That’s 50 percent
faster than the overall banking sector, the company said.  The expansion has helped drive Shariah-compliant bond sales
to $46.4 billion last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Offers have reached $5.9 billion this year, 26
percent less than the same period in 2012.  The skill shortage has stifled innovation as many Shariah-
compliant lenders simply come up with Islamic versions of
existing financial products, rather than developing original
offerings, according to Kuala Lumpur-based law firm  Lee
Hishammuddin Allen & Gledhill .  In most countries there’s no limit to the number of boards
on which a scholar can advise on Shariah compliance, with one
Syrian expert advising 101 financial institutions, standard-
setting bodies and other entities, according to a 2011 report by
 Funds@Work AG , an investment research company based near
Frankfurt.  For more, click here.  FTC’s Edith Ramirez Said to Be Obama’s Choice as Agency Chairman  Edith Ramirez, a campaign official for President  Barack
Obama  and one of his law school classmates, will be named as
head of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, where she has been a
commissioner for almost three years, according to a White House
official.  Ramirez, 44, an intellectual property lawyer, served as an
editor of the Harvard Law Review in 1990 and 1991 when Obama was
its president. In 2008, Ramirez, who is Mexican-American and
bilingual, was the Obama campaign’s Latino outreach director in
California. She has been on the commission since April 2010.  The official asked for anonymity to discuss the appointment
because the decision hasn’t been announced.  Ramirez’s public remarks in 2012, apart from official FTC
statements, included discussions of children’s online privacy
and intellectual property issues in technology and antitrust.  In an  interview  last year, Ramirez explained why she voted
in favor of withdrawing an appeal of a court order that denied
the FTC’s request to block Laboratory Corp. of America Holdings
from buying Westcliff Medical Laboratories Inc. It was because
the merger process had already begun, she said in the spring
2012 newsletter of the American Bar Association’s mergers and
acquisitions committee.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New York  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  