-- Belgacom Drops on Profit, Spending Forecast: Brussels Mover
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2013-03-01T17:48:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/belgacom-forecast-trails-estimates-as-investment-seen-rising.html
Belgacom SA (BELG) , the largest telephone
company in  Belgium , fell to a record low in Brussels after
forecasting earnings that trailed analyst estimates and saying
it will spend more to get higher speeds out of its copper wires.  The stock declined 5.6 percent to 20.21 euros on Euronext
Brussels, the lowest closing  value  since Belgacom’s initial
public offering in 2004. Adjusted earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization will drop to between 1.69 billion
euros ($2.2 billion) and 1.73 billion euros this year, the
Brussels-based company said today in a statement. Analysts
projected Ebitda of 1.75 billion euros, the average of 24
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Belgacom also said it will increase capital spending by as
much as 140 million euros, reducing cash available for payouts,
as it starts deploying Alcatel-Lucent SA’s vectoring technique
that lets carriers speed up signals by cutting interference in
copper wires. The guidance excludes spending of at least 120
million euros for wireless spectrum in an auction that’s planned
for later this year.  “Belgacom’s guidance disappoints on Ebitda and capex,”
Emmanuel Carlier, an analyst at ING Groep NV in Brussels, wrote
today in an investor note. “The dividend is at risk.”  Belgacom said its board of directors wouldn’t commit to a
 stable dividend  over 2013 earnings at this stage. It plans to
pay out an unchanged regular interim dividend of 50 cents a
share in December, on condition that results in the first nine
months match management’s guidance.  Mobile Competition  A decline in mobile revenue accelerated in the fourth
quarter as Belgacom lost 88,000 customers, more than double the
39,000 client defections in the preceding quarter, and growth in
mobile-data revenue evaporated due to regulatory caps on text-
message and data roaming introduced in July.  The number of clients that switched operators decreased
gradually during the fourth quarter after peaking in October,
Dominique Leroy, head of Belgacom’s consumer-business unit, told
reporters in Brussels.  While a slight increase in subsidized device offerings and
efforts to retain clients by switching them to cheaper plans may
help reduce so-called churn, customer defections will probably
not return to the lower levels seen before October, she said.  The Belgian incumbent reacted to  Telenet Group Holding (TNET)  NV’s
 King and Kong  mobile rate plans by adding more data and calling
minutes as of Dec. 12 to its new rate plans that were introduced
in October.  Mobistar SA (MOBB)  signaled last month that a similar move
helped to halt postpaid customer defections in December.  Faster Download  Additional caps on roaming as of July 1 and a final cut in
the rate Belgacom charges other operators to handle calls on its
network will reduce Ebitda by an estimated 53 million euros this
year and erase 93 million euros of revenue, Belgacom said.  The vectoring technology, meant to increase Belgacom lines’
download speeds to about 50 megabits per second, will cost 150
million euros in three years, said Geert Standaert, who heads
the company’s network and wholesale business. Asked how much of
that will be spent this year, Standaert said the vectoring
investments are “mid-loaded,” meaning most of that budget will
be spent in 2014.  Standaert declined to say how much the state-controlled
phone company plans to spend this year on the rollout of its
faster 4G wireless network beyond the eight cities covered since
Nov. 5, saying only that deployment will be “substantial.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  