-- Berne Scraps Structured Products Challenge to SIX Group’s Scoach
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-03-01T10:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/berne-scraps-structured-products-challenge-to-six-group-s-scoach.html
BX Berne Exchange, a Swiss bourse
for small- and medium-sized companies, has abandoned plans to
offer trading of structured products and challenge its bigger
rival SIX Group.  “The main thing we were trying to do was to create a good
alternative for trading derivative products, such as warrants,”
said BX Chief Executive Luca Schenk in an interview. “At this
moment market and competition conditions do not justify this
offering.”  Banks pay more to list structured products in  Switzerland 
than in  Germany , where two exchanges compete, with lenders
paying $392.6 for each Frankfurt listing while in Zurich its
$1,057.9. Investors traded $34 billion of structured products in
Switzerland in 2012, according to the Swiss Structured Products
Association.  BX, which counts  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  among
its members, started work on an initiative in the third quarter
of last year to allow trading of structured products. SIX
Group’s Scoach is the only exchange in Switzerland regulated by
the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority to offer
trading of warrants and certificates.  Pricing Discussions  Scoach was set up the in 2007 by SIX and Deutsche Boerse
AG, which last week said they will dissolve their joint venture.
The Swiss Exchange will run the Zurich part of the business
called Scoach Swiss from June 30 and the Frankfurt unit will be
run separately, executives from both companies said.  “We want more entrepreneurial freedom to shape the
market,” Christian Katz, chief executive officer of the Swiss
Stock Exchange said. This could include a review of prices, said
Andre Buck, Scoach’s Zurich-based head of sales and marketing.  Structured product issuers in Switzerland are currently
discussing the the costs involved in selling the securities,
said Daniel Sandmeier, who is president of the Swiss Structured
Products Association and the Zurich-based head of structured
products marketing and distribution at Credit Suisse. The
discussions will continue “with or without the Berne project,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  