-- Bersani Rejects Deal With Berlusconi in Repubblica Interview
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-03-01T10:22:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/bersani-rejects-deal-with-berlusconi-in-repubblica-interview.html
Italian  Democratic Party  leader Pier Luigi Bersani ruled out an alliance with rival  Silvio Berlusconi 
and said he plans a program of reforms to attract votes from all
political parties, in an interview with la Repubblica.  A broad coalition government including Berlusconi’s People
of Liberty party “would be the death” of the Democratic Party,
Bersani said in the Repubblica interview, adding that he will
ask other parties to support his program in parliament. “The
hypothesis of a broad coalition doesn’t exist and will never
exist,” he said.  This week’s vote produced a hung parliament, with former
comedian Beppe Grillo’s anti-austerity movement winning more
than 25 percent of the popular vote and creating the risk of
another election later this year. Bersani’s bloc won a majority
in the Chamber of Deputies, while three-time premier Berlusconi
won a blocking minority in the Senate and is pushing his rivals
to cooperate on a common agenda.  Bersani said he will present a political program at a party
meeting March 6 and he will propose himself as a candidate to
lead the new government, Repubblica reported.  “Austerity alone leads to disaster,” Bersani told the
daily, adding that  Europe  should relax fiscal policies and focus
on jobs. “The debt and deficit consolidation is something that
needs to be pushed back to the medium term.”  Bersani said his proposals will include cutting by half the
size of parliament, strengthening anti-corruption and conflict
of interest laws and boosting the green economy. Changing the
election law is “certainly a priority”, he said.  Grillo, whose Five Star Movement won 54 Senate seats, has
said his movement will weigh legislation vote by vote. The party
“won’t give any vote of confidence to the PD or others,” Grillo
wrote on his blog Feb. 27.  That “is not sufficient, since governments are born from a
confidence vote,” Bersani told the newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  