-- Bertelsmann to Buy Full Ownership of BMG Rights From KKR
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-03-01T15:55:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/bertelsmann-to-buy-full-ownership-of-bmg-rights-from-kkr.html
Bertelsmann SE,  Europe ’s largest
media company, agreed to acquire full ownership of BMG Rights
from partner  KKR & Co. (KKR)  as it seeks to boost income from music
and other non-print assets.  The takeover of New York-based KKR’s 51 percent stake in
BMG Rights will probably be completed in the first half pending
antitrust approval, Guetersloh, Germany-based Bertelsmann said
in a statement today. Bertelsmann is paying an amount of low- to
mid-three-digit million euros and will take on some BMG debt,
spokesman Christian Steinhof said by telephone.  “Bertelsmann has managed to basically get themselves back
into the music business in a very major way,” said  Mark Mulligan , founder of U.K.-based Midia Consulting. “We talk
about a very substantial share of the market, but they still
need to be doing a lot more growing.”  Thomas Rabe, Bertelsmann’s chief executive officer, has
been looking for acquisitions to reduce the company’s dependence
on Europe and the shrinking advertising market for newspapers
and magazines. In an interview today, the CEO forecast BMG
Rights’s revenue will grow to 500 million euros ($649 million)
in the next four to five years, compared with about 300 million
euros in 2012.  “The new shareholder structure shows artists that BMG
isn’t just a fleeting phenomenon,” Rabe said. “We’re now
seeing eye to eye with the three big players.”  Full Circle  BMG holds the rights to more than one million songs,
including works by Duran Duran and  Johnny Cash . It ranks behind
Vivendi SA’s Universal Music Group,  Sony Music Entertainment  and
Warner Music Group Corp.  Bertelsmann’s buyout of Berlin-based BMG Rights shows the
German media giant coming full circle into the music business,
after initially selling its recorded music unit to  Sony Corp. (6758) 
for $900 million in 2008. Shortly after BMG Rights was formed
with the KKR partnership, the venture made its first purchase in
July 2009 of the Los Angeles-based Crosstown song catalog.  KKR continues to be interested in in all content-right
categories in Europe after exiting BMG, the firm’s only
investment in this area, Philipp Freise, partner and head of
European media investments of KKR, said by phone.  “It’s a theme that KKR is actively pursuing to invest in
content, in rights and digital media, and do it in partnership
with large corporates or entrepreneurs,” he said. “On
traditional media, we believe opportunities lies in market
consolidation.”  RTL Stake  Separately, Bertelsmann is selling a stake in the  RTL Group
SA (RTL)  broadcasting unit, with a market value of 1.9 billion euros,
to help fund acquisitions.  Hartwig Masuch, who will receive a five-year contract
extension as BMG Rights’ CEO, has been shopping for cheaper
publishing assets that traditional music companies didn’t have
the expendable cash to pay for.  BMG Rights emerged as a key bidder in the past years for
Warner Music assets and in the breakup of EMI Group Ltd. In
recent months BMG won bids for former EMI labels Sanctuary and
Mute, home to Black Sabbath, Iron Maiden and Depeche Mode.  “We will operate this business for the long term to
actively expand it,” Thomas Hesse, the Bertelsmann executive
who oversees the business, said in the statement.  Bertelsmann is taking on mid-three-digit million euros in
debt in addition to the purchase price, Steinhof said. The
acquisition will result in a book gain exceeding 100 million
euros as Bertelsmann consolidates BMG’s equity, he added.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is advising Bertelsmann on the deal,
while  Citigroup Inc. (C)  is KKR’s adviser.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  