-- Best Buy Says It Got No Offer From Founder Schulze
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2013-03-01T13:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/best-buy-talks-with-founder-richard-schulze-said-to-have-ended.html
Best Buy Co. (BBY)  said it received no
offer from founder Richard Schulze by the deadline yesterday and
will continue to focus on its turnaround.  The deadline expired and Schulze didn’t make a bid, the
Richfield, Minnesota-based retailer said in a statement today.
The talks ended after Schulze and private-equity investors
sought three board seats in exchange for acquiring a minority
stake in the world’s largest consumer electronics retailer, two
people familiar with the matter said yesterday.  Schulze, who had proposed acquiring Best Buy for $24 to $26
a share in August, wasn’t able to line up debt and equity
financing, said the people who spoke on the condition of
anonymity because the talks are private. Efforts by Schulze to
negotiate a smaller deal with Cerberus Capital Management LP,
TPG Capital and Leonard Green & Partners ended, the people said.  Schulze, Best Buy’s largest  shareholder  with a stake of
about 20 percent, had sought to take over the company he founded
more than 40 years ago. He resigned as chairman in June and new
Chief Executive Officer Hubert Joly has since stabilized sales
while closing big-box stores, expanding smaller outlets and
improving e-commerce operations.  Schulze “took his ego out of his pocket and put it on his
sleeve and said, ‘I can run this company better,’”  Michael Pachter , an analyst at Wedbush Securities in  Los Angeles , said
by telephone. “He couldn’t get other people to back him.” He
recommends selling Best Buy shares.  Last Ditch  Schulze may come back with a last-ditch proposal, although
it’s unlikely, said one of the people.  In September, Schulze began studying the retailer’s
confidential financial data. He worked with private-equity firms
Cerberus Capital, TPG Capital and Leonard Green & Partners to
arrange financing, people familiar with the matter have said.  “This is how the deal ends. Not with a bang, but with a
whimper,”  Erik Gordon , a business and law professor at the
 University of Michigan  in  Ann Arbor , said in an e-mail.
“Schulze never made a compelling case for going private.”  Schulze has sought to take over Best Buy since late August,
about two months after a probe found he failed to inform the
board about allegations the CEO at the time was having an
inappropriate relationship with an employee.  Share Gain  As part of their standstill agreement allowing Schulze to
conduct due diligence, Best Buy committed to offer Schulze two
board seats if he refrained from going directly to shareholders
with a proposal or if he didn’t violate standstill provisions
between the two parties.  Best Buy has climbed 38 percent this year after a 49
percent drop in 2012.  The shares sank as low as $11.20 in December and then
recovered after Joly stabilized holiday sales with discounts and
a policy of matching rivals’ prices.  Best Buy said earlier this week it eliminated 400 jobs at
its headquarters as part of a reduction of about $150 million in
selling, general and administrative expenses. The company said
it plans additional cuts this year.  “Best Buy is taking the necessary steps to improve
operations by cutting costs out and driving efficiencies,” Alan Rifkin, an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in  New York , wrote in a
note Feb. 19. He rates the shares to overweight, the equivalent
of a buy.  Joly said in an interview in November that he’s also
planning to boost Best Buy’s share of U.S. online sales from 7
percent to 18 percent, the market share of its stores.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  