-- MBIA’s Municipal Bond Insurer Cut Three Steps to Junk by S&P
-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-03-01T13:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/mbia-municipal-bond-insurer-unit-cut-three-steps-to-junk-by-s-p.html
The  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  bond insurance unit
created in 2009 to jumpstart the company’s municipal-debt
guarantee business was cut three levels to junk by  Standard &
Poor’s .  National Public Finance Guarantee Corp. was lowered to BB
from BBB with a “developing” outlook, the New York-based
ratings company said yesterday in a statement. The MBIA parent
company’s B- rating, four steps lower than the insurance
subsidiary, was affirmed with a negative outlook.  The downgrade came a day after MBIA, shut out of the bond-
guarantee business after backing mortgage securities that soured
during the financial crisis, said there is “substantial doubt”
about the ability of its MBIA Insurance Corp. unit that insured
the debt to continue as a going concern.  While National Public Finance was created to split off its
main muni-bond business from those losses, S&P said yesterday
that the new unit may not be able to recover about a $1.6
billion intercompany loan to the distressed unit if regulators
seize that subsidiary as loss claims erode its capital.  The National unit’s ability to claim its security interest
in the loan, “is uncertain,” S&P analysts led by David Veno in
New York said in the statement. “We have, therefore, included a
100 percent charge for the intercompany loan in our analysis of
National’s capital adequacy.”  Loan Collateral  The loan, arranged in 2011 to help the MBIA Insurance unit
pay settlements on mortgage-backed debt and approved by the New
York State Department of Financial Services, is secured by
collateral with an estimated value “substantially” exceeding
the debt balance,  Kevin Brown , a spokesman for Armonk,  New York- 
based MBIA, said in an e-mailed statement.  “Despite S&P’s rating action, National’s capitalization
remains consistent with an investment-grade rating even under a
highly speculative scenario where its secured loan to MBIA Corp.
is not repaid due to regulatory intervention,” Brown said.
“National will continue to meet all of its obligations to
policyholders.”  MBIA is locked in negotiations to settle lawsuits between
it and  Bank of America Corp.  The MBIA Insurance unit, from which
National was split off, guaranteed contracts protecting Bank of
America and its subsidiaries from losses on commercial-mortgage
debt. At the same time, MBIA is seeking to force the bank to buy
back faulty loans that were included in residential-mortgage
securities that MBIA insured.  Requests Denied  If the companies can’t reach an agreement, Bank of America
could make claims on the commercial-mortgage debt that may leave
the MBIA Insurance unit without sufficient funds, MBIA has said.  The  New York  regulator denied requests in the fourth
quarter to draw on the intercompany loan or alternate financing
to fund a settlement with a credit-default swap counterparty,
the insurer said in its annual report filed Feb. 27 with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The company is limited by its liquidity to end
transactions, “all of which could be subject to regulatory
approval,” MBIA said in the filing. “There can be no assurance
that MBIA will be able to fund further commutations by borrowing
from National or otherwise.”  MBIA  shares  fell 3.1 percent yesterday to $9.67 and are
down 12 percent the past two weeks.  Credit Swaps  The cost to protect against losses on the parent company’s
debt for five years with credit-default swaps climbed 2.1
percentage points during the same period to 16.5 percent upfront
yesterday, according to data provider CMA. That’s in addition to
5 percent a year, meaning it would cost $1.65 million initially
and $500,000 annually to protect $10 million of debt from
default.  In a move to prevent the parent company from being dragged
into bankruptcy by the insurance unit, MBIA last year asked
bondholders to alter the terms of its bonds. After Bank of
America bid to buy some of the debt to block the amendment, the
insurer purchased about 52 percent of the securities in order to
ensure it had sufficient support.  Bank of America sued the debt insurer in December, saying
it interfered with the tender offer for the securities involved
in the consent solicitation. It’s also claiming the insurer
defaulted on the debt.  “We strongly believe the consent was successfully
accomplished and the change was made,” MBIA Chief Executive
Officer  Jay Brown  said yesterday in a conference call with
investors and analysts. “It’s not going to be drawn out for a
long period of time. Answers will happen in the next few
months.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  