-- Boehner Heads for Obama Talks as No Sign of Averting Cuts
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2013-03-01T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/boehner-heads-for-obama-talks-as-no-sign-of-averting-cuts.html
The same cast of political leaders
who agreed to a package of spending cuts designed to be
intolerable to either political party gathers again this morning
at the White House ready to let them begin.  The automatic cuts that threaten to eventually send poor
children home from pre-school, prolong airport security wait
times, reduce unemployment benefits and furlough defense workers
were the way out of a standoff almost two years ago that put the
nation on the edge of a debt default.  President  Barack Obama  is scheduled to meet at 10:05 a.m.
with Republican House Speaker John Boehner and other legislative
leaders after first a congressional supercommittee and then a
new election failed to settle political differences over how to
reduce the federal budget  deficit .  The threat of spending cuts hasn’t done any more to
overcome Washington’s gridlock, and the two sides instead have
concentrated on blaming each other for the austerity measures on
the horizon. Rather than negotiate, Republicans have pointed
fingers at the White House for coming up with the idea and
Democrats have accused their opponents of relishing the result.  “The Republicans want the sequester to go forward,”
Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said at a news
conference yesterday, using  Washington  shorthand for the
spending cuts. “They’ve said so, and any efforts at a
reasonable approach to this, they won’t let us do it.”  Morning Meeting  Reid also will be in today’s White House meeting, as will
Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell and House Democratic
leader Nancy Pelosi. All were parties to the budget deal that
created the automatic spending reductions, which are set to
begin by the end of today.  Boehner on the eve of the session reiterated his opposition
to including any new tax revenue, a central demand of Obama and
Democrats.  “How much more money do we want to steal from the American
people to fund more government?” Boehner said. “I’m for no
more.”  White House spokesman Jay Carney said the president
anticipates a “constructive conversation” with congressional
leaders, though not a deal to avert the cuts. Obama remains
unwilling to consider a proposal that doesn’t combine cuts with
more revenue from taxes, Carney said.  Market Reaction  The prospect of the cuts hasn’t deterred investors. The
Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  is up 6.2 percent since the start of
the year and yields on 10-year Treasuries have been little
changed over the past month. The dollar led gains in world
markets last month, climbing 3.5 percent, according to
Intercontinental Exchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks the
currency against those of six major U.S. trading partners.  The nation’s political leaders turned to sequestration in
desperation in July 2011 as negotiations between Obama and
Boehner on deficit reduction disintegrated and congressional
Republicans refused to raise the legal debt limit, bringing the
U.S. to the brink of default.  After Republicans gained control of the House in the 2010
midterm elections, they pressed for lower deficits through
spending cuts alone, especially targeting the Medicare health
program for the elderly. The Obama administration and Democrats
demanded  tax  increases on high-earners and elimination of
corporate tax breaks.  Debt Limit  The conflict came to a head when it came time to raise the
government’s borrowing authority.  As a debt deadline approached, Jacob Lew, then the White
House budget director, proposed sequestration to break the
logjam. The legislative tactic of automatic across-the-board
spending cuts was used to force compromises during the budget
battles of the 1980s, when Lew, who is now Treasury secretary,
was a congressional aide.  The White House team originally proposed that any shortfall
in deficit targets be made up with an even split of automatic
tax increases and spending cuts.  When Republicans refused, the two sides agreed to automatic
spending cuts divided evenly between  defense spending , a
Republican priority, and domestic programs, a Democratic demand.
Veterans’ benefits and entitlement programs such as Social
Security and Medicare were mostly spared and the president was
given authority to exempt the pay of uniformed military
personnel.  Earlier Threats  The federal government worked under an annual threat of
sequestration if Congress didn’t meet deficit reduction targets
following a 1985 budget law sponsored by then-Senators Ernest Hollings, Warren Rudman and Phil Gramm. In three subsequent
years, spending was at least temporarily sequestered, according
to a Congressional Research Service  report .  Scott Lilly, a former Democratic staff director for the
House Appropriations Committee, said those automatic cuts
weren’t as large the ones that will start kicking in today.  “We’ve never had anything that even begins to approach
that,” said Lilly, now a fellow at the Center for American
Progress, a Washington policy research organization. “The
experience we’ve had with sequestration is in no way a precedent
for what we are about to face.”  In 1986, $11.7 billion in spending was sequestered, about
1.2 percent of the overall  federal budget , according to the CRS.
A $20 billion year-long sequestration that began Oct. 20, 1987
was ended with a budget summit agreement reached a month later
and a $16.1 billion sequestration for the 1990 federal budget
was reduced through a deal to $4.55 billion, according to the
CRS report.  Stable Economy  The spending cuts were “very minimal” said William Hoagland, a former Republican Senate Budget Committee aide.
“The economy remained relatively stable.”  In 1986, for example, the economy grew at an average 2.8
percent pace and the benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index
climbed 14.6 percent.  A much larger potential sequestration that the law
threatened for 1991 was the impetus for the budget agreement
President George H.W. Bush reached with congressional Democrats
in 1990. That deal included tax increases opposed by many
Republican members of Congress.  The federal government now faces $1.2 trillion in automatic
spending cuts over nine years, including $85 billion this year.
Because this year’s cutbacks would be squeezed into seven months
remaining in the federal fiscal year, the result would be a 13
percent cut in most defense programs and a 9 percent cut in most
non-defense programs, Danny Werfel, controller at the Office of
Management and Budget said in a Feb. 8 briefing.  Spreading Argument  The blame trading included a public argument between the
White House and Washington Post reporter Bob Woodward. Woodward
wrote an opinion column published by the Post Feb. 22 accusing
the administration of “moving the goal posts” with their terms
for a deal. Republicans have been citing the article in arguing
for their position in the debate.  Woodward, who gained fame for his reporting on the
Watergate scandal that led to President Richard Nixon’s
resignation, said on CNN Feb. 27 that a “very senior person”
at the White House, whom he did not name, had warned him “you
will regret doing this.” He said it made him “uncomfortable”
that the White House was taking the approach.  An e-mail exchange between Woodward and National Economic
Council Director Gene Sperling was published yesterday by
Politico and confirmed by White House press secretary Jay Carney
as authentic. It begins with Sperling apologizing “for raising
my voice in our conversation today.”  In his e-mail, which Woodward replied to with a friendly
response, Sperling writes “I know you may not believe this, but
as a friend, I think you will regret staking out that claim.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 