-- Boeing Holders Vote on CEO-Chairman Split Amid 787 Woes
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-03-01T21:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/boeing-holders-vote-on-ceo-chairman-split-amid-787-woes.html
Boeing Co. (BA) , struggling to fix the
grounded 787 Dreamliner, must let investors vote on splitting
the roles of chief executive officer and chairman to strengthen
oversight, the Securities and Exchange Commission said.  The change would let Jim McNerney, who holds the titles
now, concentrate on challenges such as production delays that
stalled the 787’s debut, according to the proposal. Boeing
sought to block a vote, messages to the SEC show.  “This proposal is important to focus our CEO on Boeing,”
Ray Chevedden, the shareholder who submitted the plan, wrote in
an Oct. 18  letter  to the Chicago-based company. “When our CEO
serves as our board chairman, this arrangement can hinder our
board’s ability to monitor our CEO’s performance.”  Boeing’s SEC correspondence on the measure provides an
early look at the planemaker’s annual-meeting agenda before
proxy materials are sent to investors. The 787’s troubles have
only deepened since Chevedden’s letter, with all 49 of the jets
in service grounded by regulators in January after two battery
faults. Regulators are now considering Boeing’s proposed fixes.  The SEC said on Jan. 29 that Boeing couldn’t exclude
Chevedden’s proposal from its proxy.  Chevedden didn’t return a phone message seeking comment. He
and his son John were behind a similar proposal last year at
Sempra Energy, which shareholders approved. John Chevedden
advanced a plan to allow shareholder action outside of annual
meetings that Boeing stock owners rejected in 2011.  Independent Director  The planemaker historically files its proxy with the SEC in
mid-to-late March, the agency’s website shows.  Chevedden’s plan would require that an independent director
lead Boeing’s board instead of the CEO, according to SEC
documents. The proposal gives the company the option to put off
separating the roles until McNerney, 63, leaves.  Shareholders rejected a similar initiative in 2011, with 35
percent of votes cast for the proposal versus 64.2 percent
against and less than 1 percent abstaining, according to an  SEC
filing .  John Dern, a Boeing spokesman, pointed to the company’s
argument against the failed proposal in its 2011 proxy. Boeing’s
board “believes it is in the best interest of shareholders for
the board to have flexibility to determine the appropriate
leadership structure,” the company said then.  56 Companies  Florence Harmon, an SEC spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the agency’s correspondence with Boeing and Chevedden.  While Boeing’s proxy didn’t include such a measure last
year, 56 other companies held votes on independent chairmen,
according to  Patrick McGurn , special counsel at Institutional
Shareholders Services. In addition to Sempra, shareholders at
KeyCorp, Kindred Healthcare Inc. and McKesson Corp. approved the
initiatives while the rest failed, he said.  Boeing rose 0.5 percent to $77.28 at the market close in
New York trading. The shares have climbed 2.5 percent this year,
 trailing  the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index’s 6.5 percent gain as
the Dreamliner’s woes mounted. Through yesterday, the stock
advanced 16.5 percent since McNerney took over as CEO in July
2005, compared with 27.1 percent for the  S&P 500 .  The Dreamliner entered service in 2011 after a three-year
delay caused by supply chain disruptions, assembly problems and
a strike by its machinists’ union. Airlines including Qantas
Airways Ltd. and Air India Ltd. sought compensation after
delivery of their planes was pushed back.  CEO Performance  “When you’re concerned about the power and performance of
the CEO, you should get oversight,”  Charles Elson , director of
the University of  Delaware ’s John L. Weinberg Center for
 Corporate Governance , said in a telephone interview. “The
person being monitored shouldn’t be the chair of the group doing
the monitoring.”  The proposal cites McNerney’s service as  Procter & Gamble
Co. (PG) ’s  lead director  and as a member of International Business
Machines Corp.’s board as potential distractions from his work
at Boeing. His participation on board committees at both
companies have left him “further overextended,” Chevedden
wrote.  Chevedden reiterated his concerns in a letter to the SEC on
Jan. 16, when the Dreamliner was grounded, saying that “with
the crisis news on Boeing today” the company should withdraw
its opposition.  ‘Materially Misleading’  The planemaker had sought SEC approval to omit the proposal
because the references to McNerney’s P&G and IBM roles rendered
it “materially misleading,” according to a Dec. 19 letter from
Michael Lohr, the planemaker’s assistant general counsel, to the
SEC.  Shareholders voting on the proposal would likely be
confused whether they were being asked to separate the chairman
and CEO duties or prohibit the company’s chief executive from
serving on outside boards, Lohr wrote.  Tonya Aldave, an attorney for the SEC, rejected Boeing’s
argument in a Jan. 29 letter. The correspondence between the
company and regulators is posted on the agency’s website.  “We do not believe that Boeing may omit the proposal or
portions of the supporting statement from its proxy materials,”
Aldave wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 