-- BofA Settlement Process ‘Seriously Flawed,’ Report Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-03-01T22:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/bofa-settlement-process-seriously-flawed-report-says.html
Bank of America Corp. ’s $8.5 billion
mortgage-bond settlement was reached through a “seriously
flawed” process, said an expert for  American International
Group Inc. (AIG) , which has challenged the deal.  The  New York  state judge considering the settlement should
conduct a ”full and detailed inquiry” before approving it,
Boston University law professor Tamar Frankel said in a court
filing yesterday in  Manhattan .  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. ,
the trustee for investors in the securities, is seeking approval
for the agreement.  “The process in which the settlement was negotiated and
reached is seriously flawed, as the trustee acted in conflict of
interest and failed to exercise due care,” Frankel said.  The settlement, which would resolve claims over Countrywide
Financial mortgage bonds, was reached in 2011 and is scheduled
to be considered for approval at a hearing beginning May 30 in
New York State Supreme Court.  The settlement has the support of a group of institutional
investors, including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Pacific Investment
Management Co. It has drawn criticism from AIG. The insurance
company has said in court papers that Bank of America is
“drastically underpaying” and that the settlement was the
result of a “highly conflicted process.”  Violated Law  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman in 2011 accused
 BNY Mellon  of violating state law in its role as trustee. The
bank acted with a conflict of interest in reaching the agreement
and engaged in “repeated fraud and illegality.” New York and
Delaware have intervened in the case.  Kevin Heine, a spokesman for BNY Mellon, declined to
comment on Frankel’s filing. The bank has previously said that
it fulfilled its responsibilities as trustee and that the
proposed settlement is reasonable. Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman
for Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to
comment.  Frankel argued Justice Barbara Kapnick, who is overseeing
the case, shouldn’t grant deference to BNY Mellon in considering
the settlement. Much of Frankel’s filing is redacted.  The case is In the matter of the application of the Bank of
New York Mellon, 651786-2011, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  