-- BP Wins Bid for Access to Transocean Oil-Spill Insurance
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2013-03-02T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/bp-wins-bid-for-access-to-transocean-oil-spill-insurance.html
BP Plc (BP/)  won an appeals court ruling
giving it access to $750 million in  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) ’s insurance
to pay costs from the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in New Orleans yesterday reversed
a decision by U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  barring BP from
using the policies. Barbier had ruled that the drilling contract
between the companies for the Macondo well precluded BP
from seeking coverage under the Transocean policies for
pollution-related liabilities.  The London-based  oil company  contended it should be
considered an additional insured, with access to Transocean’s
policies. BP also argued that the drilling contract didn’t limit
access to coverage. Transocean, the owner and operator of the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig that exploded and sank, and its
insurers asked the appeals court to uphold Barbier’s decision.  “BP is entitled to coverage under each of Transocean’s
policies as an additional insured as a matter of law,” the
three-member appeals court panel said in its unanimous decision.  BP filed claims with Transocean’s carriers in 2010, seeking
access to a $50 million primary policy issued by Ranger
Insurance and to $700 million in excess coverage from Lloyd’s of
 London  and other underwriters.  ‘Additional Insured’  Barbier had ruled that BP can be considered an “additional
insured” under certain circumstances.  The judge and the insurance companies agreed, however, that
BP can be an additional insured only if the policies and the
drilling contract are construed together. Excess coverage would
be used after the primary policy limits are surpassed by the
costs of the event.  Brian Kennedy, a spokesman for Vernier, Switzerland-based
Transocean, said he couldn’t comment on yesterday’s decision
before it was reviewed by the company’s lawyers. Scott Dean, a
BP spokesman, declined to comment on it.  The Macondo blowout and the explosion that followed killed
11 workers and set off the worst offshore oil spill in U.S.
history. The accident and spill led to hundreds of lawsuits
against BP and its partners and contractors. The lawsuits over
economic losses and personal injuries have been combined before
Barbier.  The lawsuits also name as defendants Transocean and
Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided cementing services
for the Macondo well.  Liability Trial  BP settled with most non-government plaintiffs in March,
agreeing to pay an estimated $7.8 billion. That accord postponed
the first trial to determine liability for the disaster.
Barbier, who approved the settlement in two parts in December
and January, began a nonjury trial on Feb. 25 to apportion fault
and decide whether BP is liable for gross negligence.  Barbier found in the insurance dispute that the carriers
owed no duty to pay claims or defense costs for BP.  “The court finds that BP, under the drilling contract,
assumed responsibility for Macondo well oil release pollution
liabilities,” Barbier said in his November 2011 ruling.
“Because Transocean did not assume these liabilities, there is
no additional insurance obligation in favor of BP for these
liabilities.”  Drilling Contract  The drilling contract “allocates to Transocean liabilities
for pollution originating on or above the surface of the
water,” Barbier said. “The Deepwater Horizon Incident entailed
a subsurface release; thus, Transocean did not assume pollution
liabilities arising from the incident.”  The drilling contract doesn’t control whether BP can tap
into the insurance policies, the company said in its appeal of
Barbier’s decision.  “Under Texas law, the court may not graft onto the
policies purported limitations from the drilling contract that
do not appear in, or are not expressly and unambiguously
incorporated into, the policies themselves,” BP said in an Aug.
13 filing.  The policies “contain no language limiting the scope of
BP’s coverage to the scope of Transocean’s indemnity obligations
in the drilling contract,” BP told the appeals court. “The
insurers are bound by the terms of the policies they issued and,
having agreed to provide specific coverage to an ‘insured,’ they
must provide BP that coverage.”  BP ‘Unprepared’  The insurance companies opposed BP’s attempt to access
Transocean’s coverage. “BP is mentioned nowhere in any of the
policies,” lawyers for Lloyd’s and the other excess carriers
said in a July filing with the appeals court.  BP asked for “an expansive and unreasonable interpretation
of the policies now because it was unprepared for and did not
intend to insure against such extraordinary losses,” the
lawyers said.  The insurance disputes by Lloyd’s and Ranger are combined
with other spill-related lawsuits in In Re Oil Spill by the Oil
Rig Deepwater Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010,
2:10-md-02179, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
 Louisiana  (New Orleans); the appeal is In re Deepwater Horizon,
12-30230, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  