-- Brazil Growth Short of Forecast for Fourth Straight Quarter
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-03-01T16:13:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/brazil-s-economy-grows-less-than-forecast-in-fourth-quarter-1-.html
Brazil ’s  economy  expanded less than
analysts forecast for the fourth straight quarter, as the
government struggles to rebuild investor confidence in the
world’s second-biggest emerging market.  Gross domestic product grew 0.6 percent in the fourth
quarter, slowing annual growth to 0.9 percent in 2012, less than
any major emerging market, the national statistics agency said
today in  Rio de Janeiro . The quarterly gain compares with the
median estimate of a 0.8 percent expansion from 37 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. GDP rose in the fourth quarter 1.4
percent from a year earlier.  Brazil’s economic expansion slowed for a second straight
year in 2012, even as President Dilma Rousseff’s government
extended tax cuts, reduced the benchmark rate to a record,
pressured banks to lower lending costs, courted private
investment and weakened the currency. The extent of the measures
has undermined investor confidence in economic policy and
regulation, said Enestor dos Santos, senior economist for Brazil
at  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA. (BBVA)   “There’s no clarity or confidence in economic policy,
there’s an exaggerated interventionism,” dos Santos said by
telephone from  Madrid . “What’s becoming evident is that it’s
not  interest rates , tax cuts or cheap credit that will revive
growth but a recovery in confidence.”  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2015 fell
six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 8.30 percent at
1:10 p.m. local time. The real weakened 0.2 percent to 1.9818
per  U.S. dollar .  Trimmed Bets  Traders trimmed bets the central bank will increase
interest rates this year even as inflation accelerated in the
past five months to 6.18 percent in mid-February. Price
increases have exceeded the 4.5 percent midpoint of the bank’s
target for more than two years.  “It is difficult to imagine the monetary authority
justifying a hiking cycle with such disappointing growth
performance,” Italo Lombardi, an economist at Standard
Chartered Plc, wrote in a note to clients today.  The central bank has maintained the Selic rate at 7.25
percent since October to avoid jeopardizing an incipient
recovery without further fueling inflation. Policy makers, who
meet next week to decide on interest rates, said in January they
planned to keep the rate on hold for a prolonged period.  Show Effect  The measures the government took in 2011 and 2012 are
starting to show effect and the economy will grow 3 percent to 4
percent in 2013, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said to
reporters today in Brasilia.  Investments, which grew 0.5 percent in the fourth quarter,
contracted 4 percent in 2012. Expansion in 2012 was led by a 3.1
percent jump in household consumption.  “It’s important to highlight the recovery of investments
in the fourth quarter,” Tombini said in an e-mailed statement.
“Domestic demand continues to be the main support of the
economy.”  A 5.2 percent drop in agriculture output conceals the fact
that fourth-quarter GDP was “not as bad as the number
appears,” Marcelo Fonseca, economist at M. Safra & Co DTVM SA,
said.  “In 2013, we will probably see the opposite effect:
agricultural GDP raising overall GDP,” Fonseca said by phone
from  Sao Paulo .  Important Choice  Still, the government faces an important choice in order to
regain business confidence, said Gustavo Franco, founder of
asset manager Rio Bravo Investimentos.  “Something will have to change, and change is something
nobody likes,” Franco, a former central bank president, said in
Rio de Janeiro before today’s report. “One change could be
higher interest rates, another change could be tighter fiscal
policy. It’s always better to do one of those things than do
nothing.”  Mantega flew to  New York  this week to drum up interest in
the government’s $235 billion program for companies to build and
operate 7,500 kilometers (4,660 miles) of highways, 10,000
kilometers of railways, and 159 ports, among other projects.
Mantega said profitability on the projects  will be “high” and
of at least 10 percent.  “There has been some debate regarding rates of return that
the government is willing to live with,” said Pablo Fajnzylber,
the  World Bank ’s lead Brazil economist, in an interview from
Brasilia before today’s report. “Mantega said they’re willing
to be more flexible, so the prospect is for those concessions
and public-private partnerships to start being implemented. That
could start in 2013.”  Natural Boost  Infrastructure investment in preparation for hosting the
2014  World Cup  should also provide a natural boost to economic
activity, said Paulo Nogueira, who represents Brazil and 10
other Latin American nations at the  International Monetary Fund .  “When the World Cup was first announced, there was concern
from the more conservative side of the government that this
might lead to overheating,” Nogueira, who was not speaking on
behalf of the IMF, said by telephone from New York. “At this
stage, we would welcome some heat.”  Accelerating consumption this year along with higher
investment, particularly in capital goods, will help guide the
economy to 3 percent growth, Fajnzylber said. Economists in the
latest central bank survey forecast expansion of 3.1 percent.  Retail Sales  Still, that would be below Brazil’s 3.6 percent annual
average over the past decade and less than forecasted growth for
every major economy in the region except  Venezuela .  Retail sales  rose 7.5 percent in the fourth quarter and 8.6
percent in the year, up from 5.9 percent and 7.2 percent,
respectively, in 2011. Consumption has been boosted by a strong
job market, higher real wages and  consumer credit  that rose 10.5
percent last year.  Brazil last year worked to weaken its currency to aid
struggling manufacturers. After the currency hit a low of 2.1360
per dollar on Nov. 30, the government reversed course, and since
then, the real has appreciated 7.8 percent, the most among major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The central bank has acted in
the markets repeatedly to keep the rate around 2 per dollar.  Capital Controls  Before the government enacted  capital controls  to weaken
the currency, “it was impossible for the industrial sector to
grow,” Mantega said in an interview in New York on Feb. 27.
“With the  exchange rate  around 2, Brazilian industry can
survive.”  Industrial production last year fell 2.7 percent from the
prior year, the worst performance among the BRIC group of major
 emerging markets  that includes Russia, India and  China , and down
from a 0.5 percent increase in 2011.  “The pace of growth is very sluggish and is particularly
disappointing in view of huge stimulus the economy had,”  Neil Shearing , chief emerging-markets economist at Capital Economics
Ltd., said by phone from  London .  “This is yet more evidence of
the need to rebalance away from consumption and toward
investment. Until that happens we’re going to end up with
disappointing growth data and relatively high inflation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Biller in Rio De Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  