-- Brazil Stocks Less Alluring Than Mexico, Henderson’s Cowley Says
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-03-01T20:45:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/brazil-stocks-less-alluring-than-mexico-henderson-s-cowley-says.html
Brazil ’s sluggish economy and the
government’s interventionist policies have made the country less
attractive to stock investors than  Mexico , according to
Henderson Global Investors Ltd.’s Nicholas Cowley.  The Bovespa has dropped 6.7 percent this year, the third-
worst performance among 94 indexes, as policies intended to spur
growth eroded  profits  for some of country’s biggest industries
including energy and utilities. Mexico’s IPC gauge of equities
has risen 0.5 percent.  “Brazil is tough to get excited about in the short term,”
Cowley, an investment manager at Henderson, which oversees about
$100 billion, said in a phone interview from London. “What’s
concerning people is the lack of a coherent message from the
government and the central bank with respect to how they’re
tackling inflation, growth and the  exchange rate .”  As the economy grew at the slowest pace since a contraction
in 2009 and inflation remained above the midpoint of the central
bank’s target range, the government forced state-controlled
Petroleo Brasileiro SA to charge below-market gasoline prices,
pushed banks to reduce profits to “civil levels,” changed
utility contracts to lower electricity rates and pushed down the
real to help exporters.  The government has made it difficult for investors and
companies to make long-term decisions, Cowley said. Mexico is
the preferred market in  Latin America  because of its “robust
outlook” and more predictability than Brazil, he said.  Cheap Banks  While Henderson views Brazil’s stocks with caution, the
nation’s banks are cheap compared with Latin American peers,
Cowley said. He has added positions in BR Malls Participacoes
SA, the country’s biggest owner of shopping centers.  Since the beginning of the year, President  Dilma Rousseff 
has reached out to investors, meeting with business executives
including the billionaire  Eike Batista  and dispatching Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  this week to New York to seek financing
for $235 billion in infrastructure projects.  “She recognized she needs to be more open to investment,
to promote it more,” Cowley said. The infrastructure plan is
“very coherent, good overall,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  