-- U.K. Factory Contraction Revives Triple-Dip Concerns: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-03-01T12:25:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/british-manufacturing-index-unexpectedly-contracts-in-february.html
U.K. manufacturing  unexpectedly
shrank in February as new orders plunged, reviving concerns that
the economy may slip into a triple-dip recession.  A gauge of factory activity plunged to 47.9, compared with
a revised 50.5 in January, Markit Economics and the Chartered
Institute of Purchasing and Supply said today in London. A
reading below 50 indicates contraction. Separate reports today
showed euro-area manufacturing shrank last month, while Chinese
factory growth weakened.  The U.K.  economy  contracted in the fourth quarter and the
Bank of England has forecast that growth will remain “weak” in
the near term. ING Bank NV and BNP Paribas SA said today’s
surprise slump will push policy makers to increase their  bond-
purchase program  next week after Governor Mervyn King and two
other officials were defeated in a push for more stimulus last
month.  “A return to positive gross domestic product growth in the
first quarter is not guaranteed,” ING economist James Knightley
in London said in an e-mailed note. “The Bank of England has
more work to do.”  Knightley forecasts that the Monetary Policy Committee will
increase its 375 billion-pound ($564 billion) bond-purchase plan
by 25 billion pounds on March 7. David Tinsley at BNP Paribas
sees a similar increase, saying the latest data have “tipped
the balance on what was a very fine decision.”  Pound Declines  Economists had forecast a factory index reading of 51 in
February, according to the median of 31 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey.  The pound weakened against the euro and the dollar after
the factory report, falling to the lowest since July 2010 versus
the U.S. currency. Sterling was trading at $1.5031 as of 11:50
a.m. in London, down 0.9 percent from yesterday. Government
bonds rose, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year gilt falling
7 basis points to 1.9 percent.  The Markit report showed that factory payrolls declined at
the fastest pace in more than three years in February. Orders
fell the most since July and export orders dropped for the 14th
month. Markit said that “poor weather” and the Chinese New
Year holidays hurt demand last month.  “Bad weather may have had some effect, but there is no
getting away from the fact that this is a discouraging report,”
said Simon Hayes, an economist at Barclays Plc in London. “The
outlook for manufacturing remains shaky.”  Markit Chief Economist Chris Williamson said the report is
a “major setback to hopes that the U.K. economy can return to
growth in the first quarter.” Data so far this year point to
manufacturing output falling as much as 0.5 percent, meaning a
“strong rebound” is needed in March to prevent the industry
acting as a drag on the economy this quarter, he said.  U.K. Property  A report from the Bank of England showed that  mortgage
approvals  unexpectedly declined to 54,719 in January from a
revised 55,632 in December. Net mortgage lending rose by 147
million pounds ($221 million), the least since August.
Nationwide Building Society, which reported a 0.2 percent
increase in home values in February, said today that the
recovery in the property market is “likely to be gradual.”  In the euro region, a  factory gauge  was unchanged in
February at 47.9, marking a 19th month of contraction, according
to a separate Markit report today. That’s above an  initial
estimate  of 47.8 on Feb. 21. While the index for Germany, the
region’s largest economy, climbed to 50.3 from 49.8 in January,
Italy’s dropped to 45.8 from 47.8.  ‘Patchy’ Recovery  Also in the currency bloc today, the jobless rate rose to a
record 11.9 percent in January from 11.8 percent in December.
That’s the highest since the series started in 1995 and exceeded
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Separate data showed
that  euro-region inflation  slowed more than forecast to 1.8
percent last month.  Hayes at Barclays said that while he expects the euro area
to strengthen gradually this year, “signs of an improvement
remain patchy.”  The Purchasing Managers’ Index for China fell to 50.1, the
lowest in five months, from 50.4, the National Bureau of
Statistics said. A separate gauge from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit dropped to a four-month low of 50.4 from 52.3.  U.S. manufacturing also probably weakened last month,
economists said before a report today. The Institute for Supply
Management’s February  factory index  will fall to 52.5 from a
nine-month high of 53.1 the prior month, according to the median
estimate in a survey.  Before that, the Commerce Department will publish its
monthly consumer spending report. It is forecast to show that
expenditure rose 0.2 percent in February, the same pace as in
January, even as incomes probably fell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  