-- BSkyB Buys Telefonica U.K. Broadband Unit for $303 Million
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-03-01T09:49:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/bskyb-buys-telefonica-u-k-broadband-unit-for-about-303-million.html
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ,
the U.K.’s biggest pay-television company, agreed to buy
 Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s broadband and fixed-line phone division in the
country for as much as 200 million pounds ($303 million).  The deal will make BSkyB the second-biggest provider of
broadband Internet connections in the U.K., according to a
statement today from the Isleworth, England-based company. BSkyB
will pay 180 million pounds and potentially a further 20 million
pounds, depending on successful customer migration.  BSkyB, which is about 40 percent owned by Rupert Murdoch’s
 News Corp. (NWSA) , is seeking to extend its business ahead of a
possible expansion into the U.K. by billionaire  John Malone ’s
cable giant  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA)  Malone’s company agreed to buy
U.K. cable-television provider  Virgin Media Inc. (VMED)  for about $16
billion last month.  “Sky has been the U.K.’s fastest-growing broadband and
telephony provider since we entered the market six years ago,”
Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Darroch said in the statement.
“The acquisition of Telefonica U.K.’s consumer broadband and
fixed-line telephony business will help us accelerate this
growth.”  BSkyB rose 0.8 percent to 857 pence at 9:47 a.m. in London.
Telefonica advanced 1.2 percent to 10.12 euros in Madrid.  Triple Play  Telefonica’s 560,000 U.K. broadband customers could
represent an opportunity for BSkyB to sell its phone and TV
products and may precede a larger expansion of Sky’s Internet
assets, Thomas Singlehurst, a Citigroup Inc. analyst, said in a
note to investors today. BSkyB has more than 4.2 million
broadband customers.  Triple-play packages of T.V., Internet and phone services
are “a key leg to the story at BSkyB and this will
significantly increase its standalone communication base,”
Singlehurst said.  Telefonica, Spain’s biggest phone carrier, is selling
assets to reduce a debt pile that exceeds 50 billion euros ($65
billion). The company also owns the O2 mobile-phone operator in
the U.K.  BT Group Plc is the U.K.’s biggest broadband provider.
 Virgin Media  had 4.27 million broadband customers at the end of
December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ville Heiskanen in Helsinki at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  