-- Cameron Left Wondering Where Votes Are After Eastleigh
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-03-01T15:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/cameron-left-wondering-where-votes-are-after-eastleigh.html
The U.K. Conservatives’ third-place
showing yesterday in a special election left their leader, Prime
Minister  David Cameron , with the question of how his party can
regain enough support to keep power in 2015.  Cameron failed to take it from his coalition partners, the
Liberal Democrats, who held the southern English district of
Eastleigh yesterday in the face of a collapse in their national
poll rating. And even though he pledged a referendum on European
Union membership less than two months ago, Cameron’s party fell
behind the anti-EU U.K. Independence Party, which attacked the
premier for adopting traditionally non-Tory positions, including
support for same-sex marriage.  Nor can he look for comfort in the economy. Manufacturing
unexpectedly shrank in February, fueling renewed concerns of a
triple-dip recession, according to a report today. That caused
sterling to weaken below $1.50 for the first time since July
2010. The Cabinet discussed the lack of growth this week after 
Moody’s Investors Service stripped the U.K. of its top debt 
rating. Those may heighten a rebellious mood among Tory lawmakers
that’s already hurt Cameron’s re-election chances.  “His critics will be rubbing their hands, falling over
themselves to tell him ‘I told you so’ over gay marriage and all
his other offenses against what they see as traditional
Toryism,” said Tim Bale, professor of politics at Queen Mary,
University of  London . “Cameron’s main problem, however, is
strategic. He’s tried shifting right and that’s done him no
good. But where else does he go now?  Once again, he’s simply
left hoping that the economy comes right.”  Cameron’s Confidence  Cameron dismissed calls to change course. “People want to
register a protest, but I’m confident we can win those people
back by demonstrating that we are delivering,” he said today.
“I don’t think we should tack this way, tack that way.”  UKIP scored its best-ever  parliamentary election result 
yesterday, with 28 percent of the vote, up from 4 percent in
Eastleigh at the 2010 general election. That left UKIP just 4
percentage points behind the Liberal Democrats and more than 2
points in front of the Tories. UKIP’s leader, Nigel Farage,
attributed his party’s success to the prime minister.  “The Conservatives failed here because traditional Tory
voters look at Cameron and they ask themselves, ‘is he a
Conservative?’ and they conclude, no he is not,” he told the
BBC. “He talks about gay marriage,  wind turbines , unlimited
immigration from  India . He wants  Turkey  to join the EU. The
Conservatives’ problems are not because of UKIP, it’s because of
their leader.”  Protest Party  Even so, Tim Farron, the president of the Liberal
Democrats, echoed Cameron’s sentiment in his analysis of the
reasons for UKIP’s success.  “They’ve become the ‘none-of-the-above’ party,” he told
the BBC. “We used to be that -- the difference is that we used
to win.”  A telephone poll of 760 voters in Eastleigh yesterday found
that three quarters of those backing UKIP said their vote was
“a general protest to show I’m unhappy with all the main
parties.” The survey was conducted for Michael Ashcroft, a Tory
upper-house lawmaker who commissioned two polls in the district
during the campaign.  Tory member of Parliament Douglas Carswell was one of the
first after the result to call for a new direction for his
party.  ‘Profound Change’  “I would like to focus on the bread-and-butter issues --
cost of living,” he told the  BBC . “It’s not just a mid-term
blip, it’s a profound change in the way politics is done. We
need to change where we stand, so we’re the party people who are
fed up with politics should come to.”  Cameron already has difficulty keeping his lawmakers in
line. In the past year, they’ve defied him in parliamentary
votes ranging from gay marriage to the EU.  “Unless things are demonstrably different in terms of
public perception by the early summer he will have great
difficulty in persuading the electorate that we can win a
general election,” London’s Evening Standard newspaper cited
one Tory, Stewart Jackson, as saying. “Too much emphasis is
going to the Liberal metropolitan elite and not enough to the
blue-collar working vote that  Margaret Thatcher  had the support
of.”  Boundaries Imbalance  As well as creating a picture of internal divisions, some
Conservative rebellions have had a more tangible effect. One
last year, to block plans to introduce elections to the upper
chamber of Parliament, led the Liberal Democrats to vote against
a proposal to redraw electoral boundaries to benefit the Tories.  To win a majority in 2015 will require the Conservatives to
take seats off both Labour and Liberal Democrats. With Labour
ahead in the polls for the past year, Cameron needed to show in
Eastleigh that he could instead win districts from his coalition
partners, whose poll ratings have plumbed record lows since
going into coalition with the Tories in 2010.  “This is a terrible result for Cameron; coming third in a
by-election you hope to win is colossally bad,”  Justin Fisher ,
who teaches politics at London’s Brunel University, said in a
telephone interview. “He’s in an unenviable position. He’ll be
under pressure to change course but he’s damned if he does and
damned if he doesn’t.”  Bookmaker  William Hill Plc (WMH)  cut its odds of Cameron being
replaced as Tory leader before the next election, offering a
profit of seven pounds for a two-pound winning bet.  Still, Bale said the Eastleigh result alone “isn’t likely
to draw enough blood to see the sharks really begin to circle.”
He said the “moment of maximum danger” will be after the 2014
elections to the European Parliament, when Farage said he
expects UKIP to take first place.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  