-- Canada Economic Growth Stagnates as Firms Cut Stockpiles
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-03-01T21:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/canada-economic-growth-stagnates-as-firms-cut-stockpiles.html
Canada ’s economic growth stagnated
in the fourth quarter as gains in investment and consumer
spending were blunted by companies scaling back inventories,
suggesting there’s little momentum early this year.  Gross domestic product grew at a 0.6 percent annualized
pace from October to December, the slowest since the second
quarter of 2011, Statistics Canada said today from Ottawa. The
quarter ended with a 0.2 percent decline in output in December,
led by manufacturers and retailers.  The last major report before the Bank of Canada’s March 6
policy announcement fell short of Governor Mark Carney’s Jan. 23
projection of a 1 percent expansion rate. Signs that the world’s
11th largest economy is struggling to reach full output led
Carney to say that an increase in his  benchmark  interest rate is
“less imminent.”  “There really isn’t much driving Canadian economic growth
right now,” said  Robert Kavcic , a senior economist at the Bank
of Montreal in Toronto. “We are still looking for pretty
sluggish growth, sub 2 percent for the first quarter.”  The Canadian dollar erased an earlier loss after the
report, trading for 1.0269 per U.S. dollar at 4:21 p.m. in
Toronto. Earlier it touched C$1.0342, its weakest since June.
Canadian government bond yields declined, with the 10-year
security falling as far as 1.79 percent -- its lowest this year
-- from 1.84 percent yesterday.  Household consumption led economic growth in the fourth
quarter with a 2.7 percent annualized gain. That spending has
benefited  Cineplex Inc. (CGX) , Canada’s largest movie theater
operator, whose shares have surged to all-time highs after
posting record sales and attendance in 2012.  Demand Rotation  Investment and exports both rebounded in the fourth quarter
after dragging down growth in the prior three months. Capital
spending by companies rose 2.4 percent at annual rates to
reverse a decline of 0.8 percent in the third quarter, while
exports rose 1.2 percent following a 7.3 percent drop. Imports
fell 1 percent, the first decline in more than a year.  “There is a lot of transitory weakness” said Ian Pollick,
senior rates strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto. The
Bank of Canada next week will cut its growth forecast and may
further dilute its signals about raising interest rates, he
said.  Carney said Feb. 25 the “rotation” of demand from the
country’s indebted households to businesses “is the fundamental
challenge” for Canada’s economy.  Output Figures  Business spending on inventories was the only major
category to show a decline in the fourth quarter, falling by
C$10.3 billion ($10.0 billion) at annual rates, Statistics
Canada said.  The fourth quarter and December output figures both matched
the median estimates in Bloomberg surveys.  Carney, who leaves June 1 to head the Bank of England a
month later, will probably keep his policy rate at 1 percent
next week and through the rest of his tenure, according to an
economist survey. The benchmark rate has been unchanged since
September 2010, the longest period since the 1950s.  “In the very near term, more of the elements of the
downside risks have materialized,” Carney said at a Feb. 25
press conference following a speech at the Richard Ivey Business
School at Western University. “Inflation is pretty much
tracking in line with expectations at this stage so I don’t want
to overemphasize shorter-term data.”  Budget Goals  Canada’s consumer-price index rose 0.5 percent in January
from a year earlier, the slowest pace since October 2009,
Statistics Canada said Feb. 22. The central bank sets interest
rates to meet a 2 percent inflation target.  Finance Minister Jim Flaherty said today’s report means he
may have to cut spending further to reach a goal of eliminating
a budget deficit before the next federal election due in 2015.  “We start from the premise that we’d like to balance the
budget in 2015, and it may need some more sacrifice in budgeting
among the various ministries of the government,” Flaherty told
reporters. “We will stay on track for a balanced budget in the
medium term, which is the current parliamentary term, which
means 2015.”  The pace of growth in December from 12 months earlier, 0.8
percent, was the least in three years. The full-year growth rate
of 1.6 percent slowed from 2.6 percent in 2011.  “Today’s report caps a disappointing year for the Canadian
economy,” said Mazen Issa, Canada macro strategist at TD
Securities in Toronto. “Business investment and net exports
need to be in the driver’s seat” this year, he said. “This is
largely contingent on how events abroad unfold. Unfortunately
the global backdrop appears to be struggling.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  