-- Canada Bank Regulator Said to Probe Risk at Farm Lender
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-03-01T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/canada-bank-regulator-said-to-probe-risk-at-farm-lender.html
The Canadian government has asked
banking regulators to review whether the nation’s biggest
agricultural lender is taking on too much risk, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  The finance and agriculture ministries requested the review
of Farm Credit Canada by the Office of the Superintendent of
Financial Institutions, which regulates the country’s banks,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
information isn’t public.  Farm Credit Canada, which is owned by the federal
government, makes loans to individuals and farming businesses to
buy land, inputs, livestock and equipment. Its loan portfolio
has  grown  more than 400 percent since 1997 to C$24.9 billion
($24.2 billion), accounting for nearly 30 percent of the farm
debt in the world’s 11th-largest economy. Canada is the world’s
largest exporter of wheat after the U.S.  The review follows moves by Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty 
to give OSFI power to  monitor risks  being taken by another
government agency -- Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp. -- the
organization that insures residential mortgages.  “FCC is a prudent and responsible lender that is committed
to its customers and the long-term viability of the agriculture
and agri-food industry,” Farm Credit Canada spokesman Trevor
Sutter said by e-mail. “Our risk models indicate the level of
risk on new loans, and the strength of the overall portfolio has
never been better.”  OSFI spokesman Rod Giles referred questions to the
agriculture ministry. Joel Taguchi, a spokesman for Agriculture
Minister Gerry Ritz, said by telephone the government routinely
reviews entities such as FCC. He said he couldn’t confirm that
FCC is being reviewed.  ‘Proper Oversight’  “Government entities are routinely examined as part of
proper oversight,” Bram Sepers, a spokesman for Minister of
State for Finance Ted Menzies, said in an e-mail. “That is
responsible, prudent and routine action by a government.”  FCC’s activities may be taking business from  private
lenders  and undermining the stability of the Canadian financial
system by encouraging farmers to take on risky loans, according
to a Feb. 6  report  by the C.D. Howe Institute, an independent
Toronto-based research organization.  Some products offered by FCC, such as loans that do not
require repayment of the principal, are similar to subprime
 mortgage loans , said the report, written by Philippe Bergevin
and  Finn Poschmann .  “Given the risks involved for FCC, farmers and for the
economy at large, it would be prudent for Canadian regulators to
monitor the situation more closely,” Bergevin and Poschmann
said.  Farm Debt  Outstanding farm debt  rose  6.4 percent in 2011 to C$69.7
billion, continuing a steady increase since 1993, according to
Statistics Canada data. Federal government agencies accounted
for 29 percent of lending, while chartered banks such as  Royal
Bank of Canada  accounted for 36 percent.  Credit unions  held a 16
percent share.  The largest single share of farm debt by a single bank was
about 8 percent, Maura Drew-Lytle, a spokeswoman for the
Canadian Bankers Association, which represents banks including
 Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , Toronto-Dominion Bank and Bank of  Nova
Scotia  said in an e-mail.  The OSFI review will hopefully clarify whether FCC has been
gaining market share through risky lending, said Marion Wrobel,
the CBA’s vice president of policy. “The government and
taxpayers, who are ultimately on the hook, should know that,”
he said by phone from Toronto.  Greater Risk  It would be ironic if the government, while attempting to
support rural communities, actually exposes farmers to greater
risk, Wrobel said. “We saw that in the residential  housing
market  in the  United States . It wasn’t just financial
institutions that suffered because of bad lending practices. It
was homeowners.”  FCC’s lending may also be inflating asset values in the
industry, Bergevin and Poschmann said. The average value of
Canadian farmland increased 8.6 percent in the first half of
last year, a record pace, according to Farm Credit  Canada 
 figures .  FCC is “financially strong,” with equity and loan-loss
reserves of C$3.73 billion, the agency said in its  annual report 
for the year ended March 31, 2012.  The agency has a portfolio and credit risk division that
monitors the potential for financial losses, and the board of
directors is responsible for approving its credit-risk
tolerance, according to its annual report.  FCC had C$588 million in bonds outstanding at the end of
last year that were backed by the government, according to its
 website . Since 2008, it has financed itself by borrowing
directly from the government.  Expanded Authority  FCC, based in Regina, Saskatchewan, was founded in 1959.
The agency’s lending authority was expanded in 1993 and again in
2001, according to its annual report. The most recent changes
enabled it to lend to businesses that aren’t owned by farmers
and offer venture-capital financing.  In addition to farmers, the agency lends to suppliers and
processors who “support primary producers,” including
equipment manufacturers and marketing firms, the report said.  The changes to CMHC’s oversight made last year require that
OSFI check the housing agency’s finances at least once a year.
Flaherty also added two government deputy ministers to the
agency’s board of directors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  