-- Carlyle Avoids Mowing Lawns in Housing Rebound: Mortgages
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-03-01T19:58:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/carlyle-avoids-mowing-lawns-in-housing-rebound-mortgages.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the second-largest
private equity firm by assets, has spent about $2.5 billion
betting on the U.S. housing recovery since late 2008. Only $10
million has been for single-family homes.  The firm is buying and building apartment properties after
investing in about 50 multifamily projects over the past two
years, said Robert Stuckey, Carlyle’s head of U.S. real-estate
investing. Washington-based Carlyle also is wagering on mortgage
bonds that it started to acquire in October 2008 when prices
tumbled during the credit crisis.  While other buyout firms also are capitalizing on
distressed home-loan securities, Carlyle’s focus on apartments,
an established industry for institutional investors, separates
it from rivals including  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the largest
private-equity firm, and Colony Capital that are rushing to
purchase foreclosed single-family homes to rent, planning to
manage thousands of properties that increase in value as the
residential  real-estate  market recovers.  “Our posture is there are better ways to play the housing
recovery” than buying single-family houses, said Stuckey. With
the bond investments, “our approach enabled us to buy at about
30 percent of replacement cost, marketable securities, and we
don’t have to mow the lawn.”  Carlyle has used about half of its current $2.34 billion
Carlyle Realty Partners VI fund for multifamily after first
investing in the sector in 2000. The firm has deployed capital
from Seattle to Dallas to  New York  after demand for rental
housing soared when millions of people lost homes to  foreclosure 
and lenders tightened standards for residential mortgages.  Las Vegas  In January, Carlyle acquired a parcel in Las Vegas to
develop a 255-unit complex of rental townhomes called Elysian
Southern Highlands. It also bought a newly renovated 45-unit
apartment building and adjacent land parcels in  Chicago ’s West
Loop where it plans to develop more than 100 additional units.  “Carlyle saw the opportunity in the multifamily space
earlier than some other opportunity funds,” said David Hodes,
co-founder of Hodes Weill & Associates, a real estate advisory
firm, in New York. “At the time they were gearing up, there
wasn’t a lot of capital for multifamily development but there
was a lot of demand for finished product.”  Apartment construction in the U.S. has been rebounding from
a 50-year low in 2009 as developers race to meet rental demand.
The two-county region including  Seattle  is seeing the most
apartment construction in 25 years, while development is surging
in the Washington area, Miami and  Boston .  Rent Growth  “Apartments are one of the only property types where
development can make sense right now based on the level of rent
growth you are getting,” said Ray Huang, a multifamily analyst
at Green Street Advisors Inc. in  Newport Beach ,  California . “We
are still positive on the multifamily space.”  Demand is so strong that some new projects are pre-leasing
large numbers of units before construction is complete, said
Stuckey, who has run U.S. property investing for Carlyle for
more than 14 years. “It feels unusual” to sign leases before
the project is done, he said.  The Southwestern, located in a medical district of  Dallas ,
leased more than 20 percent of its 359 units before the building
was complete. Eleven North in the Gulch neighborhood of
Nashville, Tennessee, pre-leased 60 percent of its 300 units and
was sold in November for a profit of 2.6 times Carlyle’s
invested capital.  People Clamoring  “We’ve had instances where people are clamoring to get
in,” Stuckey said. “It’s indicative of where we are in the
cycle.”  The recovery in the single-family home market, by contrast,
is just beginning, he said.  Given the size of the housing market and the amount of
distress, Carlyle isn’t ignoring it. The firm made a limited
investment, spending $10 million of equity to buy houses in the
Atlanta area, Stuckey said. Carlyle’s investments have been made
through Sylvan Road Capital LLC, an Atlanta-based company
started last year by Oliver Chang, former head of U.S housing
strategy at Morgan Stanley.  “It’s a big investment concept and that’s why we’re taking
it seriously,” Stuckey said. “We’ve got a toe in the water.”  That’s dwarfed by Blackstone’s $3 billion investment, which
has bought it more than 17,000 homes across the country. Colony,
a  Santa Monica , California-based firm headed by Thomas Barrack,
has bought more than 8,000 homes, and American Homes 4 Rent, led
by B. Wayne Hughes, has about 10,000 properties and said this
week it plans to sell shares to the public.  Housing Strategy  “It’s hard to find a private-equity firm on the planet
that doesn’t have a strategy in this space,” Gary Beasley,
chief executive officer at Waypoint Homes, said in January at
the American Securitization Forum’s annual conference in  Las
Vegas .  Single-family homes to rent is a relatively new strategy
for institutional investors, suggesting that returns ought to be
higher than for multifamily because of the greater risk, said
Green Street’s Huang.  The kind of apartments sought by institutional investors,
usually properties with 50 units or more, are priced to deliver
internal rates of return, a measure of investment yield used by
private equity firms, of almost 7 percent, according to Huang.  Return expectations for single-family rentals ought to be
more like 7.5 percent to 8 percent to compensate for greater
risk, he said.  Buying Low  A central part of the investment premise in single-family
rentals -- buying low -- has been eroded by the rally in  home
prices  during the past eight months in markets such as Phoenix,
Las Vegas, parts of California and south  Florida , Huang said.  Single-family rentals also are likely to require more
capital and labor to maintain than multifamily rentals, Huang
said. “Everyone has their own roof and each home has different
infrastructure,” he said. And the software for setting rents to
maximize revenue isn’t as advanced as for apartments, Huang
said.  Still, the multifamily sector isn’t without its challenges,
including a rush to build, according to Hodes.  “The challenge is if every proposed new building gets in
the ground at the same time, there are going to be too many
apartments arriving at once,” he said. “Long term, there’s no
issue the U.S. can absorb a lot of new apartments. Multifamily
development is not a contrarian strategy anymore.”  Buying Bonds  That’s also being echoed in the mortgage bond market, where
Stuckey and his team made money for Carlyle clients by buying
mortgage securities on the cheap from October 2008 to April
2009, paying about 39 cents on the dollar for home loan bonds
without government backing, he said. In all, since 2008, the
firm invested about $1.5 billion in such bonds.  As the housing recovery gained momentum, non-agency debt
returned more than 20 percent annually in three of the past four
years. The debt is now yielding 4 percent to 6 percent,
according to Barclays Plc.  While Carlyle has returned some money to investors, it
retains “substantial” positions that continue to benefit from
the housing rebound, Stuckey said.  The rebound has showed signs of strengthening. The median
home price in January rose 12 percent from a year earlier, the
biggest gain since 2005, according to the National Association
of Realtors. Home sales increased to a 4.92 million annual rate,
43 percent above a record low two years ago.  Diversifying Investments  Carlyle raised about $150 million last year for a fund to
invest in the debt, according to people familiar with the firm
who asked not to be named because the information is private.
The firm, which has $170 billion under management, has sought to
diversify into real estate, credit and other areas to reduce its
reliance on traditional leveraged buyouts. The company fell 0.8
percent to $31.43 at 2:54 p.m. in New York trading, trimming its
gain in the past year to 43 percent.  Besides apartments and RMBS, Carlyle also is investing in
senior-living facilities, from those that cater to independent
living and assisted living to residences that provide care for
Alzheimer’s patients.  “As the population ages, demand for senior living is
growing faster than for any other” type of housing, Stuckey
said. “There’s a void in the market” as construction hasn’t
kept up with demand from the aging population, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  