-- Caro, Andrew Solomon, Ben Fountain Win Critics Awards
-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 2013-03-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/caro-andrew-solomon-ben-fountain-win-critics-awards.html
The National Book Critics Circle
gave its award for general nonfiction to Andrew Solomon for
“Far From the Tree: Parents, Children and the Search for
Identity” (Scribner).  The book is based on 10 years spent interviewing hundreds
of parents who have children very different from themselves.  Ben Fountain won the fiction award for “Billy Lynn’s Long
Halftime Walk” (Ecco), a novel about U.S. soldiers being feted
at a Dallas Cowboys game after a victorious battle in  Iraq . The
Bloomberg review called it “a broadly entertaining satire that
takes aim at celebrity, sports, Hollywood, corporations, the
media and more.”  “You don’t get many strokes in this business,” Fountain
said in accepting the award at a ceremony in  New York  Thursday
night. “So I really appreciate this one.”  Solomon and Fountain were the only ones among the book-
award winners present, prompting Solomon to joke: “It’s
obviously unfashionable actually to show up for your own award,
so I hope you won’t think less of me for doing so.”  Leanne Shapton, who won in the autobiography category for
“Swimming Studies” (Blue Rider Press), “has left the pool and
has entered motherhood as of about three days ago,” said her
publisher,  David Rosenthal , explaining the author’s absence.  Shapton’s book is a kind of meditation on swimming’s
competitive and recreational sides from a writer who once
trained for the Olympic trials.  Robert Caro  The award for biography went to “The Passage of Power: The
Years of  Lyndon Johnson ” (Knopf), the fourth volume of Robert A. Caro’s acclaimed life of Lyndon Johnson. Two of the earlier
volumes also won the award.  D.A. Powell won in the poetry category for “Useless
Landscape, or A Guide for Boys” (Graywolf). It was third time
lucky for Powell, a professor at the University of  San
Francisco , who was a finalist for the NBCC poetry prize in 2004
for “Cocktails” and in 2009 for “Chronic.”  Marina Warner won in criticism for “Stranger Magic:
Charmed States and the Arabian Nights” (Belknap/Harvard). A
professor at the University of Essex in  England , Warner was
awarded the CBE in the Queen’s Birthday Honors List for Services
to Literature in 2008.  The Ivan Sandrof Lifetime Achievement Award went to Sandra
Gilbert and Susan Gubar. The NBCC, in announcing the award in
January, noted their “pioneering work in feminist thought,
which revolutionized criticism.” They are the authors of “The
Madwoman in the Attic” and the editors of “The Norton
Anthology of Literature by Women,” among many other works.  No Ironing  In separate videotaped acceptance speeches, the two
scholars noted that they had met in an elevator in the early
1970s at  Indiana University  and went on to sustain a 40-year
collaboration.  Gilbert noted with comic understatement that even when
feminism had gained a foothold in academia, “many of our male
colleagues weren’t always altogether positive.”  Gubar fulfilled a promise made to colleagues and friends
after she received word of the award and confessed that she had
never done “ironing or vacuum cleaning.”  The Nona Balakian Citation for Excellence in Reviewing went
to William Deresiewicz, the author of “A Jane Austen
Education,” a contributing writer for the Nation and a
contributing editor for the New Republic and the American
Scholar. The award for the first time came with $1,000.  Deresiewicz joked: “Since I’m a freelancer, I’ll expect
the check in three to six months.”  The  National Book Critics Circle  is an organization of
almost 600 book reviewers and editors. Founded in 1974, the
group gave out its first awards the following year.  Nominees and winners are chosen by the group’s 24-member
board of directors, which includes Bloomberg book editor Laurie Muchnick, staffers from the Los Angeles Times, the  Chicago
Tribune  and other newspapers, and a number of freelance critics.  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  on
 movies ,  Jeremy Gerard  on theater.  To contact the writer on this story:
Jeffrey Burke in New York at 
 Jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 