-- Chile Ruled Out Rate Change on Weak CPI and Growing Demand
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2013-03-01T12:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/chile-ruled-out-rate-change-on-weak-cpi-and-growing-demand-1-.html
Chilean policy makers were unanimous
in their decision to keep the  benchmark interest rate  unchanged
last month after internal demand showed few signs of slowing and
inflation remained below target.  The central bank board, which kept borrowing costs at 5
percent, last changed the rate in January 2012, when it made a
quarter-point reduction that surprised economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Policy makers didn’t discuss changing rates in the
Feb. 14 meeting, according to the minutes posted on the bank
website today.  The central bank board previously considered raising
borrowing costs in its May 2012 meeting. It has opted against
rate changes for 13 straight months and will continue to do so
through December after  inflation eased  and the economy grew
faster than expected last year, according to economists polled
by the bank on Feb. 11.  “One board member noted that the balance of risks remained
generally unbiased and, therefore, it was difficult to propose
any option other than keeping the policy rate flat,” according
to the minutes. “However, the relative weight of risks had
changed somewhat: local risks had gained importance, at least in
the short term.”  Economic growth as measured by the Imacec index, a proxy
for gross domestic product, grew 5.6 percent in 2012 from the
previous year.  Inflation eased from 4.2 percent at the start of 2012 to
1.5 percent in December, the slowest pace in 2 1/2 years. Policy
makers target 3 percent inflation, plus or minus 1 percentage
point over 24 months.  Two-year  interest-rate swaps , which reflect traders’ views
of average borrowing costs, fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, last month to 5.18 percent. That implies
interest rates will remain unchanged this year and rise a
quarter-point by March 2014, according to Banco de Chile.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  