-- China Overnight Rate Completes Biggest Weekly Increase in a Year
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-03-01T08:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/china-overnight-rate-heads-for-biggest-weekly-increase-in-a-year.html
China ’s overnight money-market rate
completed its biggest weekly jump in a year on speculation the
central bank will take steps to restrain property prices and
inflation.  Monetary policy  may be tightened because of excessive
market liquidity and rising real-estate prices, according to a
front-page commentary in China Securities Journal this week. The
People’s Bank of China refrained from offering reverse-
 repurchase agreements  yesterday after gauging demand on Feb. 27
for auctions of seven- and 14-day contracts that inject cash
into the financial system.  “While there have been no reverse repos done this week,
liquidity should not have been that tight,” said  Frances Cheung , a Hong Kong-based strategist at Credit Agricole CIB.
“The upward move in front-end rates may be overdone.”  The one-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, climbed 190 basis points this week to 4.10
percent in Shanghai, according to a weighted average rate
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. That is the
biggest weekly increase since February 2012. The rate rose five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, today, increasing for a
ninth straight day.  The monetary authority drained a net 5 billion  yuan  ($804
million) of capital from the financial system this week after
withdrawing 910 billion yuan last week, the most since Bloomberg
started compiling the  data  in 2008. The PBOC sold repurchase
contracts for the first time since June on Feb. 19, taking out
funds from banks after they lent the most money in two years in
January.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, rose eight basis
points this week to 3.28 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The rate rose two basis points today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  