-- China’s New Home Prices Advance for Ninth Month, SouFun Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-01T07:52:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/china-s-new-home-prices-increase-for-ninth-month-soufun-reports.html
China ’s new  home prices  rose for a
ninth month in February, adding to concerns that the government
may issue new property tightening policies.  Prices climbed 0.8 percent to 9,893 yuan ($1,590) per
square meter (10.76 square feet) from January,  SouFun Holdings
Ltd. (SFUN) , the country’s biggest real estate website owner, said in a
statement today after a survey of 100 cities.  “The risks for the government to add on more tightening
measures are increasing,” said Johnson Hu, a Hong Kong-based
property analyst at CIMB-GK Securities Research. “But the
policy tightening will be a gradual process and home prices will
continue to rise in the coming months.”  Uncertainties over the government’s property policies
lingered as the country is poised to complete a once-in-a-decade
leadership handover in the next two weeks. Premier  Wen Jiabao 
last week said cities that had “excessively fast” price gains
should impose home-purchase restrictions promptly, according to
a statement after the last State Council meeting he headed.  Li Keqiang is set to replace Wen as premier at the end of
the annual gathering of the National People’s Congress, China’s
parliament, which begins March 5.  Home prices rose 2.5 percent last month from a year ago,
according to the SouFun statement.  “It is very likely for the government to intensify
property curbs and keep them for a long time,” said Yu Liang,
president of China Vanke Co., the country’s biggest developer,
at a press conference in  Hong Kong  this week after the earnings.  Vanke said Feb. 27 that full-year profit rose 30 percent as
it sold more small and medium-sized homes that are less affected
by government curbs. The developer sold homes worth 141.2
billion  yuan , an industry record, it said.  Detailed Rules  The eastern city of Changshu in Jiangsu province had the
biggest gain last month, with prices increasing 4.1 percent,
SouFun said. Home values in the capital Beijing added 1 percent,
while those in  Shanghai , the country’s financial center, jumped
1.3 percent from January.  The country may announce detailed rules to control  property
market  “soon” at the local or ministry level, China Securities
Journal reported on Feb. 25, citing an unidentified person.  The government has raised down-payment and mortgage
requirements in its almost three-year effort to curb the
property market. It also imposed a property tax for the first
time in Shanghai and Chongqing, increased construction of low-
cost social housing and enacted home-purchase restrictions in
about 40 cities.  A  gauge  tracking property shares in Shanghai fell 1.3
percent at the close of trading, the worst performer among the
five industry groups in the  Shanghai Composite Index. (SHCOMP)  The
benchmark slipped 0.3 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  