-- Emerging Stocks Erase Weekly Gain on China, Commodities
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-03-01T22:36:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/china-stocks-fall-with-russia-on-manufacturing-data-oil-prices.html
Emerging-market stocks erased this
week’s gains, led by commodity producers, after Chinese
manufacturing data trailed estimates and as $85 billion of
spending cuts were set to be triggered in the U.S.  Vale  SA, the world’s biggest iron-ore producer, was the
biggest drag in a measure of developing-nation shares. OAO
Gazprom, Russia’s largest natural-gas company, fell the most in
two weeks.  Bank of China Ltd.  sank 2.5 percent in Hong Kong.
 Energy Development  Corp. tumbled 11 percent as five people were
killed and six are missing after a landslide in the Philippines.
Stocks pared losses after a report showed American factories
expanded at the fastest pace in almost two years.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slid 0.1 percent to
1,053.13 in New York, dropping less than 0.1 percent for the
week. China’s official  Purchasing Managers ’ Index fell to the
weakest level in five months in February. The  U.S. Senate 
rejected a pair of partisan proposals to replace spending
reductions. The euro-area unemployment rose to a record.  “The softer data out of China reflects the recession we’re
seeing in the  euro zone , which is being intensified by the
increase in taxes and the sequester due to start today,”  Alan Gayle , senior strategist at RidgeWorth Capital Management, said
in a phone interview from Atlanta. His firm oversees about $48
billion, including developing-nation shares. “The sluggishness
is weighing on demand in emerging markets.”  Monthly Drop  Today’s decline in equities added to a 1.4 percent slump
last month, the biggest decline since May. The emerging-markets
gauge has declined 0.2 percent this year, compared with a gain
of 4.7 percent of the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed-country
stocks. The measure of developing nations trades at 10.6 times
estimated 12-month earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s 13.8
times, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund  rose 0.2 percent to $43.31. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a gauge of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
rose 1.6 percent to 18.72.  Measures of raw material and energy producers had the
 biggest declines  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, dropping at
least 0.6 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI measure of raw materials
declined a fourth straight day. Oil fell to the lowest level
this year in New York. Vale slid 3.6 percent. Gazprom slumped
2.1 percent.  Russian Stocks  Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  slipped 0.8 percent, dropping a second
day. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies
listed in Hong Kong slid 0.8 percent.  “Weaker commodity prices are undermining a large
percentage of the market capitalization,” Julian Rimmer, who
trades developing-nations’ stocks at CF Global Trading in
London, wrote in e-mail. “Chinese data confirmed sluggish
growth” while fund outflows make for a “less-than-constructive
backdrop,” he said.  Asia funds lost $185 million, snapping a 24-week inflow
streak, Markus Rosgen and Yue Hin Pong, analysts at Citigroup
Inc., wrote in a report today, citing EPFR figures.  The Bovespa index slid 0.9 percent in Sao Paulo. Brazil’s
economy expanded less than analysts forecast for the fourth
straight quarter, as the government struggles to rebuild
investor confidence in the second-biggest emerging market.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese dropped for a fourth week. Youku Tudou Inc., China’s
biggest web video operator, slid 1.7 percent to an almost two-
month low in U.S. hours as sales came below estimates.  China Mobile  Bank of China  fell 2.5 percent in  Hong Kong . China Mobile
Ltd. dropped 1.1 percent.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , a state-owned Chinese
offshore energy explorer, sank 2.4 percent after Nomura Holdings
Inc. cut its recommendation to reduce from neutral.  Energy Development tumbled 11 percent. Two weeks of
intermittent rain triggered the landslide this morning at Energy
Development’s Upper Mahiao geothermal project, the company said
today. A search is on for the missing workers, who were employed
by contractor First Balfour Inc., it said.  India’s S&P BSE Sensex Index rose 0.3 percent as data
yesterday showed slower-than-estimated economic growth, giving
the central bank more scope to cut  interest rates . Indonesia’s
PT Bank Central Asia slumped 2.7 percent after the nation’s
consumer prices accelerated to a 20-month high in February.  Merida Industry Co. (9914) , a Taiwanese bicycle maker, increased
6.9 percent to an all-time high after  Apple Daily  reported that
more than 6,000 overseas buyers, a record number, are expected
at the Taipei Cycle Show that starts on March 20.  Old Mutual Plc (OML) , Africa’s biggest insurer, jumped 3.8
percent to the highest in more than five years in Johannesburg.
The company set aside 5 billion rand ($550 million) for
acquisitions in fast-growing countries on the continent after
full-year profit beat analysts’ estimates. South Africa’s
FTSE/JSE Africa All-Share Index climbed 1.1 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to hold emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 290, according to the JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  