-- China Tightens Mortgage Rules as Home Prices Keep Rising
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-02T11:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/china-tightens-mortgage-rules-as-home-price-increases-continue.html
China  called for higher down
payments and  interest rates  for second-home mortgages in cities
with “excessively fast” price gains and ordered stricter
enforcement of taxes on sales as authorities step up a three-
year campaign to cool the  property market .  The People’s Bank of China’s regional branches may
implement the measures in accordance with the price-control
targets of local governments, the State Council, or Cabinet,
said in a  statement  on its website yesterday. Cities facing
“relatively large” pressure from rising house prices must
further tighten home-purchase limits, according to the statement.  China’s new-home prices rose for a ninth straight month in
February,  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)  said yesterday, 10 days after
outgoing Premier  Wen Jiabao  told local authorities to
“decisively” curb property speculation and ordered cities with
rapid price gains to limit home purchases.  Li Keqiang , No.2 in
the Communist Party hierarchy, is set to replace Wen during
legislative meetings that start March 5.  “This is a final effort by Premier Wen to put a stamp on
the direction of policy before he leaves office and the message
is clear: there should be no relaxation of property market
controls,”  Mark Williams , an economist at Capital Economics Ltd.
in  London , said by e-mail. “This is a sensible policy. Even
allowing for the construction slowdown of last year, the real
estate sector remains on an unsustainable path.”  Property controls “are still in a crucial period and
expectations of further gains in housing prices are
increasing,” the State Council said.  Property Tax  The government will study the experiences of cities that
have piloted the property tax and will accelerate and widen the
trials to “guide reasonable” housing consumption, according to
yesterday’s statement which was dated Feb. 26. Currently,
 Shanghai  and Chongqing are the only two cities that have the
housing tax.  Real estate companies  found hoarding land or collaborating
to push up  home prices  will be barred from getting new
development loans or raising funds in  capital markets , according
to the government statement. Local authorities must release
price-control targets in the first quarter, it said.  Individuals selling properties should “strictly” pay a 20
percent tax on profits from sales when the original purchase
price is available, according to the statement. Many sellers now
say they can’t provide the data and instead pay a tax of 1
percent of the total sale value, a lower burden in cities where
prices have soared, according to analysts.  Purchase Costs  Taxes are typically added to selling prices, Qu Anxin, a
Shanghai-based analyst at Centaline Property Agency Ltd.,
China’s biggest real estate brokerage, said in a telephone
interview. Stricter implementation will “noticeably” push up
purchase costs of existing homes, particularly in first-tier
cities and those with rapid price gains, according to Shi Qi, a
Shanghai-based analyst at CEBM Group, an advisory company.  New-home prices climbed 0.8 percent to 9,893  yuan  ($1,590)
a square meter (10.76 square feet) from January, SouFun, owner
of the country’s biggest real estate website, said in a
statement, citing a survey of 100 cities. Home values in Beijing
added 1 percent from January, and those in Shanghai jumped 1.3
percent, according to SouFun.  Prices of existing homes jumped at least 10 percent last
year in Beijing and Shanghai, Centaline’s Qu said.  Raise Rates  The government in 2011 raised the down payment on second
mortgages to 60 percent from 50 percent, and required the
interest rate to be at least 10 percent higher than the central
bank’s benchmark. PBOC branches will probably raise borrowing
costs by a further 10 percent, Shi said. Yesterday’s statement
didn’t specify by how much the down payments and mortgage rates
should be increased.  “The accommodative cycle for the real estate sector has
ended and is entering a tightening cycle,” Shi said. “Demand
would shrink obviously in the second half and prices may start
falling next year.”  A gauge tracking property shares in Shanghai has fallen 1.9
percent this year, compared with a 4 percent gain in the
benchmark Shanghai Composite Index.  Chinese regulators “know well the damage a real estate
bubble can cause to a nation’s growth and treasury,”  David Loevinger , former senior coordinator for China affairs at the
U.S. Treasury Department, said by e-mail. “With the middle
class being priced out of city centers, China can ill afford to
again let real estate prices run far ahead of  household
income ,” said Loevinger, now an analyst in  Los Angeles  at TCW
Group Inc., which oversees about $138 billion.  Too Late  The property tightening measures were announced too late to
affect first-quarter economic growth, Song Guoqing, an adviser
to the central bank, told reporters at a forum in Beijing today.  Gross domestic product may expand 8.3 percent in the first
three months of 2013 from a year earlier, said Song, one of
three academic advisers who sit on the central bank’s monetary
policy committee. Growth was 7.9 percent in the fourth quarter,
the first acceleration in two years.  Property investment, which includes real-estate development,
property management and intermediary services, accounted for 18
percent of China’s gross domestic product last year, according
to Bloomberg calculations based on National Bureau of Statistics
data.  Fundamental Demand  China’s property prices will continue to rise in a gradual
manner,  Ha Jiming , vice chairman for China at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.’s investment management division, said at the same
forum. On the one hand fundamental demand in cities is strong
while on the other, the government is trying to avoid excessive
home-price increases, he said.  Premier Wen’s three-year effort to curb property prices has
included raising down-payment and mortgage requirements,
increasing construction of low-cost social housing and
restricting home purchases in about 40 cities. Authorities also
imposed a property tax for the first time in Shanghai and
Chongqing.  The surge in housing prices in major cities “left the
Chinese government no choice but to tighten, mainly to dampen
price rise expectations,” Shen Jianguang, chief Asia economist
at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. in  Hong Kong , said in an e-mail.
“The new measures will definitely dampen property investment
and sales.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  