-- McIlroy, Woods Trail Leader Villegas by Six at Honda Classic
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-03-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/mcilroy-woods-trail-leader-villegas-by-six-at-honda-classic.html
Rory McIlroy and  Tiger Woods , the
world’s top-ranked golfers, trail leader Camilo Villegas by six
shots entering the second round of golf’s Honda Classic.  Defending champion McIlroy and Woods finished yesterday’s
opening day at level par. Villegas had an eagle on the final
hole at the PGA National Champion Course at Palm Beach Gardens,
 Florida , to finish at 6-under par, one shot ahead of a group of
four players that includes  Rickie Fowler .  Lee Westwood ,  Dustin Johnson  and Boo Weekley are among 10 players at 4-under.  Villegas has slumped to No. 279 in the  Official World Golf
Ranking  and is relying on invitations from tournament sponsors
after losing his place on the U.S.  PGA Tour  last year. The 31-
year-old Colombian missed out on weekend play in 11 of his 28
tournaments since the start of 2012 and hasn’t won since
collecting his third PGA Tour title at the 2010 Honda Classic.  “This game is great when you’re playing good,” Villegas
told reporters. “When you’re out here missing cut after cut --
I don’t care what people say, yes, we’re blessed to have this
job, but it’s not that much fun.”  While Woods expressed his satisfaction at escaping with a
par at the sixth hole after playing a shot from a water hazard
instead of taking a penalty drop, McIlroy was displeased at
dropping a shot at the par-5 18th after his third shot, from 105
yards (96 meters), sailed over the green.  McIlroy said after his round that he’s still adjusting
after switching to  Nike Inc. (NKE)  equipment from Titleist clubs and
balls in January.  “It would have been nice to finish off the round a bit
better,” McIlroy told reporters. “I felt like I hit the ball
OK; not as good as I can, but it’s getting there.”  McIlroy, 23, became world No. 1 a year ago after winning
the Honda Classic by two shots from Woods, who ended the
tournament with an 8-under-par 62, the lowest final-round score
of his PGA Tour career.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 