-- McIlroy Says Wisdom Tooth Forced Honda Classic Withdrawal
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-03-01T19:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/mcilroy-withdraws-from-honda-classic-midway-through-second-round.html
Top-ranked Rory McIlroy blamed pain
from a wisdom tooth for withdrawing from the U.S. PGA Tour’s
Honda Classic midway through today’s second round.  He said he couldn’t concentrate and planned to have the
tooth pulled. Conor Ridge, the golfer’s agent, said McIlroy
still plans to play in next week’s World Golf Championship event
in Miami.  “He is getting a dentist’s assessment on the tooth to see
if it needs to be taken out,” Ridge said in an e-mail. “At
present, he still plans to play next week, but it depends on the
medical advice he receives.”  The 23-year-old McIlroy, a two-time major tournament winner
and the defending Honda champion from  Northern Ireland , walked
off the PGA National course at  Palm Beach Gardens ,  Florida ,
after hitting a shot on No. 18, his ninth hole of the day. He
was 7-over par, with a triple bogey on the par-4 16th hole, and
trailed co-leaders  Geoff Ogilvy  and Doug LaBelle II by 14 shots
after starting the day at even par.  “I sincerely apologize to The Honda Classic and PGA Tour
for my sudden withdrawal,” McIlroy said in a statement released
by the tour. “I was simply unable to concentrate. It was really
bothering me and had begun to affect my playing partners. This
is one of my favorite tournaments of the year and I regret
having to make the decision to withdraw, but it was one I had to
make.”  The Augusta Chronicle reported earlier on Twitter that
McIlroy said he was in a “bad place mentally” as he left the
course.  Medical Rules  According to tour rules, a player may withdraw because of
injury or other disability that requires medical attention, or
serious personal emergency. McIlroy has 14 days to submit
written evidence supporting his reason for withdrawing.  After yesterday’s round, McIlroy said that he’s still
adjusting after switching to  Nike Inc. (NKE)  equipment from Titleist
clubs and balls in January.  “It would have been nice to finish off the round a bit
better,” McIlroy told reporters yesterday. “I felt like I hit
the ball OK; not as good as I can, but it’s getting there.”  Beth Gast, a spokeswoman for Nike’s golf unit, said in an
e-mailed statement that the company “wish Rory a speedy
recovery and look forward to seeing his return.” She cited
McIlroy’s reference to the wisdom tooth as the reason for his
withdrawal.  McIlroy became No. 1 in the Official World Golf Ranking a
year ago after winning the Honda Classic by two shots ahead of
 Tiger Woods , who also shot even-par in yesterday’s opening
round.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  