-- Citigroup Says Dodd-Frank Drives Off Overseas Clients
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-03-01T16:54:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/citigroup-says-dodd-frank-drives-off-overseas-clients.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  said it could lose
overseas customers and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  may have to
limit transfers of capital among its units because of new
regulations designed to make the financial system safer.  New derivatives rules set by the Dodd-Frank Act may force
foreign clients at overseas branches to comply with U.S.
standards, a prospect some don’t find appealing, New York-based
Citigroup said today in its annual securities filing.  Customers “have expressed an unwillingness to continue to
deal with overseas branches of U.S. banks if the rules would
subject them to these requirements,” Citigroup said. “Citi
could lose clients to non-U.S. financial institutions that are
not subject to the same compliance regime.”  Bankers have said that new domestic and international
regulations are crimping revenue and hurting growth. The
companies provide shareholders with an updated list of risks to
their business in their annual filings, and Citigroup put
regulatory pitfalls first on its tally.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the
biggest U.S. bank, added almost a full page to its discussion.  Goldman Sachs said efforts by nations to “ring fence” the
New York-based firm’s local subsidiaries against a crisis will
probably compel it to hold more  capital . Ring-fencing involves
an attempt by regulators to protect their citizens if the local
subsidiary of a foreign-controlled bank is enmeshed in a
failure. The goal is to ensure the unit keeps enough assets on
hand that can be seized to protect local clients and creditors.  Capital Curbs  “The result has been and may continue to be additional
limitations on our ability to efficiently move capital and
liquidity among our affiliated entities, thereby increasing the
overall level of capital and liquidity required by the firm on a
consolidated basis,” Goldman Sachs said.  U.S. banks aren’t alone in their concern about cross-border
regulations. Deutsche Bank AG fell the most in more than five
months after Goldman Sachs cut the company to sell from hold,
saying it may have to transfer $13 billion to its U.S. unit
under new capital proposals.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  said this week it may have to sell or make
changes to some of its real-estate fund businesses by September
to comply with the Bank Holding Company Act after receiving a
third one-year extension. The firm also cut its investments in
 hedge funds  as the Volcker rule, which limits such holdings, is
set to go into effect.  Since March 2012, Goldman Sachs has taken back as much as
10 percent of redeemable interests in certain hedge funds each
quarter, executing a plan laid out in last year’s filing. The
firm also limited new investments in hedge funds and private-
equity funds to 3 percent to comply with the rule, it said.  While  Bank of America Corp.  said new rules from the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau could have a significant
negative effect on its results, it couldn’t estimate the impact
because CFPB rules may be invalidated by a recent court decision
over presidential appointments that may be applied to the CFPB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  