-- Citigroup Says Credit-Card Abuse Probes Fuel $266 Million Cost
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-03-01T17:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/citigroup-says-credit-card-abuse-probes-fuel-266-million-cost.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the world’s biggest
credit-card lender, is facing rising costs from the misselling
of so-called add-on card products in the U.K. and U.S.  Citigroup boosted reserves by $266 million last year to
compensate U.K. customers wrongly sold payment protection
insurance, or PPI, according to a regulatory filing today by the
New York-based lender. The bank may also face penalties from
U.S. regulators amid an industrywide probe into the sale of
payment protection and identity monitoring products, according
to the filing.  Lenders including  Discover Financial Services (DFS)  and Lloyds
Banking Group Plc are dealing with the costs from the improper
selling of products such as PPI, which is used to cover payments
on credits cards if customers get sick or lose their jobs.
Britain’s biggest banks have reserved more than 13 billion
pounds ($19.5 billion) for PPI compensation, while U.S. firms
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based  Bank of America Corp.  are retreating from the market for
add-on card products amid scrutiny from regulators.  “While the number of customer complaints regarding the
sale of PPI significantly increased in 2012, and the number
could continue to increase, the potential losses and impact on
Citi remain volatile and are subject to significant
uncertainty,” Citigroup said in the filing.  The boost brought the amount set aside for PPI claims in
the U.K. to $376 million at Dec. 31, Citigroup said. Rising U.K.
customer complaints triggered by “continued regulatory focus”
prompted the increase, according to the filing.  Possible Restitution  The complaints stem primarily from two Citigroup consumer-
finance entities, CitiFinancial Europe Plc and Canada Square
Operations Ltd., formerly known as Egg Banking Plc, the lender
said. While Citigroup has sold or is winding down these
businesses, it retains potential liability for the PPI sales,
the bank said.  Customers who bought PPI rarely compared prices and terms
or switched providers, and usually weren’t aware they could
purchase the insurance from other companies, the U.K.’s
Competition Commission has said.  Lloyds (LLOY) , Britain’s biggest mortgage lender, set aside 1.5
billion pounds in the fourth quarter of 2012 to compensate
customers wrongly sold PPI, taking its total charge to about 6.8
billion pounds.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  yesterday made
an additional PPI provision of 450 million pounds.  In the U.S., a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau probe
into deceptive marketing practices has already led to fines for
Discover Financial and  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  New York-
based JPMorgan, Bank of America and Citigroup said last year
that they’ve halted certain add-on practices.  “In light of the current regulatory focus on add-on
products and the actions regulators have taken in relation to
other credit card issuers, one or more regulators may order that
Citi pay restitution to customers,” Citigroup said in the
filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  