-- Coca-Cola Must Face Lawsuit Over Orange Juice Labeling
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-03-01T23:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/coca-cola-must-face-lawsuit-over-orange-juice-labeling.html
Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world’s largest
soft-drink maker, must face a consumer lawsuit challenging the
labeling of its Simply Orange, Minute Maid Premium and Minute
Maid Pure Squeezed orange juice brands, a judge said.  The consumers allege in court filings that Coca-Cola has
marketed Simply Orange as “100 percent pure squeeze” and “not
from concentrate” since 2006, when in truth the juice is
“chemically flavored, heavily processed, designed and modified
and is not “100% pure squeezed,” “simply orange,” “pure”
or “natural.”  Such labeling is deceptive and violates state consumer-
protection laws, according to the consumers. The Atlanta-based
company has made misleading representations about Minute Maid
products too, for which it’s liable for breaches of contract,
according to the complaint, which combines 13 different cases.  U.S. District Judge Fernando J. Gaitan Jr. in Kansas City,
Missouri, today said the allegations were sufficient to overcome
defense arguments that the company’s claims were so-called
puffery or that the case was barred by federal law. Gaitan also
rejected Coca-Cola’s claim the consumers failed to show they had
been injured.  “Plaintiffs have asserted false advertising,
misrepresentation and deceptive practices claims,” he said in a
nine-page ruling.  Coca-Cola’s media relations department didn’t immediately
respond to voice-mail and e-mail messages seeking comment on the
ruling.  Combined Complaint  The combined complaint, filed with the Kansas City court in
August, included plaintiffs from New York, New Jersey,
California, Florida, Illinois, Missouri and Alabama.  Coca-Cola asked Gaitan in September to throw the case out.  “Plaintiffs’ claims must be dismissed insofar as they are
premised on promotional statements, such as the Simply Orange
and Minute Maid Pure Squeezed product names,” the company said
in a filing.  Those names, it said, are “indisputably true, not capable
of misleading reasonable consumers as a matter of law or
constitute non-actionable puffery.”  The case is In re Simply Orange Juice Marketing & Sales
Practices Litigation, 4:12-md-2361, U.S. District Court, Western
District of Missouri (Kansas City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  