-- CoCos Draft Bond Cops to Stop Banks Kneading Assets: Euro Credit
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-03-01T09:37:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/cocos-draft-bond-cops-to-stop-banks-kneading-assets-euro-credit.html
Regulators have a new ally in their
campaign to prevent banks from disguising their capital needs by
massaging down asset holdings: bondholders.  Assigning lower asset values allows lenders to report higher
returns by reducing the amount of capital they have to set
aside. Holders of contingent capital notes, a type of debt banks
have started selling to bolster their  balance sheets , have a
growing incentive to scrutinize how many loans banks are loading
onto their equity bases.  The bonds, known as CoCos, convert to equity or are written
off once an issuer’s capital ratios fall below a preset level.
Investors who bought $3 billion of the securities that  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  issued in November, for example, will be wiped out if the
London-based bank’s  core Tier 1 ratio , a measure of its ability
to absorb losses, slips below 7 percent.  “They’ll be watching like hawks,” said Georg Grodzki, who
helps run the equivalent of about $585 billion as head of credit
research at Legal & General Investment Management in  London .
“They have to be pretty mesmerized by capital ratios if they’re
holding something with capital triggers.”  Banks set aside varying amounts of capital for different
assets based on the likelihood and extent of a loss. A bond from
Siemens AG, which has an Aa3 rating three levels down from the
top grade from Moody’s Investors Service, carries a lower
capital charge for the bank holding it as an asset than does a
loan to Athens-based glassmaker Yioula Glassworks SA, which
Moody’s rates eight levels below investment grade.  Transparent Assumptions  “With the banks, there’s a lack of transparency on how a
risk weighting is arrived at,” said Roel Jansen, who is
responsible for $8.4 billion as head of European investment
grade credit at ING Investment Management in  The Hague . “We
don’t know what assumptions are made. If there is transparency
and a bank is aggressive, it will come under market pressure.
We’re at the beginning of a process that will be led not only by
regulators but by investors.”  Regulators have signaled concern that large banks using
their own models are generating different assessments of the
same assets when assigning risk weights. The Basel Committee of
international bank supervisors and the European Banking
Authority have both set up working groups to study the issue.  Bad Incentives  “There’s a move to get away from the internal-model-based
approach,” said Scott Bugie, former managing director of
financial institution ratings at  Standard & Poor’s  in Paris and
now a consultant. “That’s hugely complicated, it got regulators
into a heavy-duty relationship and incentivized the institutions
to reduce their risk-weighted assets.”  Bank supervisors in individual nations have a growing
interest in how lenders decide how risky their various assets
are, in some cases driving down  capital ratios . Swedish
authorities have imposed minimum risk weights, or floors, on
 mortgage loans . The Swedish regulator estimates Swedbank AB may
need an additional 1.5 percent in core Tier 1 equity capital,
and Svenska Handelsbanken AB an extra 1.1 percent.  In the U.K., regulators began reviewing banks’ capital in
November, focusing on the effects of over-optimistic asset
valuations, potential fines for misconduct such as rate rigging
and mis-selling insurance and swaps, and risk weightings.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  cited “model changes”
for an increase in its risk-weighted assets by about 44 billion
pounds ($67 billion), or about 9.5 percent of its 460 billion-
pound total, the Edinburgh-based lender said yesterday. Barclays
added almost 40 billion pounds after supervisors hardened their
view of the risks in banks’ commercial property loans and
sovereign bond holdings.  Note Structures  Barclays expects to issue “loss absorbing capital
instruments” equivalent to 2 percent of risk-weighted assets,
Chief Executive Officer  Antony Jenkins  said in the bank’s
strategic review published Feb 12. These won’t necessarily have
the same structure as the 7.625 percent notes due 2022 it sold
in November, he said.  Barclays issued the bonds at 100 cents on the dollar to
yield 604 basis points more than government debt. After widening
to as much as 625 basis points on Nov. 15 as the bond lost
value, the spread is currently 585 basis points.  The bank had a core Tier 1 ratio of 10.9 percent “as
defined by prevailing regulation at the time of ratio
calculation,” according to its  website .  “You really need a big cushion between the trigger and
current ratios, especially if regulators are going to start
changing their minds,” said  Simon Adamson , an analyst at
CreditSights Inc. in London. “If the calculation base changes,
you might suddenly find you have a much smaller cushion.”  ‘Aggressive User’  Deutsche Bank AG,  Germany ’s biggest bank, is “an
aggressive user” of internal models, according to Andrew Lim,
an analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank in London. He
estimates its ratio of risk-weighted assets to total assets is
18 percent, the lowest of  Europe ’s biggest lenders, and reckons
standardization of internal modeling for credit portfolios might
inflate its risk-weighted assets by 49 percent.  The arrival of the  European Central Bank  as Europe-wide
banking regulator, scheduled for next year, will “provide extra
teeth to make sure the German bank complies,” Lim said in a
report.  While Deutsche Bank has yet to issue CoCo-style bonds, UBS
AG has done so. The Zurich-based company’s risk-weighted assets
amount to 19 percent of total assets, a tally that may rise to
25 percent by 2014, or 34 percent if adjusted to exclude cash
and certain other assets, according to Lim.  Christian Streckert, a Deutsche Bank spokesman in
 Frankfurt , and Hana Dunn, a UBS spokeswoman in London, declined
to comment.  ‘Believable Number’  UBS issued $2 billion of 7.625 percent, 10-year contingent
bonds in August to add to the $2 billion 7.25 percent notes
callable in five years that it sold in February. Both bonds will
be written off if the bank’s Tier 1 ratio falls below 5 percent.  UBS cut group risk-weighted assets by 43 billion Swiss
francs ($46 billion) in the fourth quarter as it seeks to reduce
the total by about 100 billion francs by the end of 2017, the
lender said Feb. 5. Of that, a reduction of 6 billion francs at
the investment bank and 2 billion francs of so-called legacy
assets was obtained by fine-tuning models.  “The key things are, what is a believable number for risk
assets and how did they get to it?” said Steve Hussey, a
London-based credit analyst at AllianceBernstein Ltd., which
manages $430 billion. “We have to know what the number is that
the banks are using and be sure it’s comparable across banks. At
the moment, it definitely isn’t.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  