-- Colorado Theater Suspect Holmes May Plead Insanity, Lawyers Say
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-03-01T23:19:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/colorado-theater-suspect-holmes-may-plead-insanity-lawyers-say.html
James Holmes, charged in a shooting
rampage in a  Colorado  movie theater that left 12 people dead, is
considering pleading not guilty by reason of insanity, his
lawyers said in court filings.  Before he can enter a plea, the lawyers want a state judge
to strike down portions of Colorado’s criminal statutes
governing insanity defenses, according to the filings today in
state court in Centennial. The judge in the case would have to
order a mental examination of the defendant if he pleads
insanity, and under state law prosecutors may be allowed to use
what Holmes says during the exam to seek the death penalty,
which is unconstitutional, they said.  “Mr. Holmes asserts that the above-specified statutory
provisions, as well as the statutory scheme in general, are
unconstitutional,” Tamara Brady, a lawyer for Holmes, wrote.
“Defense counsel cannot intelligently or effectively advise Mr.
Holmes of the consequences of entering a plea” regarding
insanity “at trial and/or sentencing until this motion is ruled
upon and the court advises the defense of the consequences of
these decisions.”  Holmes, who studied neuroscience at the  University of
Colorado , Denver, is charged with 166 counts, including murder
and attempted murder. He might face the death penalty if
convicted of first-degree murder. He is scheduled to be
arraigned March 12. Prosecutors haven’t yet been required to
disclose whether they intend to seek the death penalty,
according to a defense filing today.  ‘Mental Condition’  In separate motions today, defense lawyers asked the judge
to define certain terms, such as “cooperate” and “mental
condition,” in the state’s insanity defense statutes or strike
down those parts of the statute.  Brady and Daniel King, chief trial deputy at the state
public defender’s office, didn’t return a voice-mail message
seeking comment on the filings.  The case is People v. Holmes, 12-cr-01522, 18th Judicial
District Court, Colorado (Centennial).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  