-- CommonWealth Investor Asks REIT to Explore Alternatives
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-03-02T00:13:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/commonwealth-investor-asks-reit-to-explore-alternatives.html
Luxor Capital Group LP, the owner of
an 8 percent stake in  CommonWealth REIT (CWH) , asked the company’s
board to form an independent committee to explore “strategic
alternatives” after the landlord planned a stock sale over the
objections of investors interested in buying the company.  “We find it unconscionable that the board of trustees
would vote to issue shares significantly below market in light
of the offer on the table from a credible buyer at a significant
premium,” Luxor, a New York-based investment manager, said
today in a letter to the board.  CommonWealth priced 30 million shares on Feb. 27 at $19
each, with the offering settlement scheduled for March 5.
Investors Corvex Management LP and Related Cos., who together
own 9.8 percent of the Newton, Massachusetts-based real estate
investment trust, had an offer to acquire CommonWealth for $27 a
share before the pricing.  Luxor, in today’s letter, asked CommonWealth to stop
purchases and sales of properties and equity sales until a
strategic review of the company is complete.  Keith Meister’s Corvex and Related, led by Chief Executive
Officer Jeff Blau, project that CommonWealth’s real estate
assets are worth about $40 a share, according to a Feb. 26
regulatory filing, and assert that poor management has driven
down the value of the stock.  Shares Fall  The Luxor letter was distributed after the close of regular
U.S. trading. CommonWealth fell 5.9 percent to $23.77 at the
close today in New York. The shares rose 54 percent on Feb. 26,
when Related and Corvex said they were prepared to bid for the
company.  Tim Bonang, director of investor relations at CommonWealth,
didn’t return a telephone call seeking comment today.  Delaware County Employees Retirement Fund, a Pennsylvania
pension, asked a federal court to halt completion of the equity
offering, according to the fund’s complaint. The pension is a
CommonWealth shareholder, according to its lawsuit filed
yesterday in federal court in  Boston .  CommonWealth owns downtown and suburban office buildings
and industrial properties in U.S. cities including Chicago,
Denver and Philadelphia.  The case is Delaware County Employees Retirement Fund v.
Portnoy, 13-cv-10405, U.S. District Court, District of
 Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  