-- Commerzbank Sees ECB Revising Up Growth and Inflation Forecasts
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-03-01T09:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/commerzbank-sees-ecb-revising-up-growth-and-inflation-forecasts.html
The  European Central Bank  will
revise up its growth and inflation forecasts next week and keep
interest rates unchanged as confidence among entrepreneurs and
investors improves, Commerzbank AG predicts.  “The ECB repeatedly pointed out that financial-market
confidence has risen sharply, which is one of the reasons why
economic indicators have on average outperformed consensus
expectations since the December projections,” Frankfurt-based
economist  Michael Schubert  wrote in a research note published
today. “Against this backdrop, we expect that the ECB experts
will raise their forecasts slightly, despite the euro’s
appreciation.”  The ECB will lift its growth forecast for 2013 to minus 0.1
percent from minus 0.3 percent and predict inflation of 1.8
percent, up from a December projection of 1.6 percent,
Commerzbank said. Policy makers will leave 2014 forecasts for
growth and inflation unchanged at 1.2 percent and 1.4 percent
respectively, according to the note. ECB President  Mario Draghi 
will unveil the new projections on March 7.  The euro gained 11 percent against major trading partners
in the six months through January, sparking a debate about
deflation risks and the possibility of lower  interest rates . The
single currency has dropped 3 percent since Draghi said last
month that the appreciation poses a downside risk for  price
stability .  Although the euro’s recent decline “should have no impact
on the projections, as only data through to mid-February are
taken into account, the ECB’s decision ought to be influenced by
the weakening euro,” Schubert said. That makes it “even more
likely that the ECB will leave key rates unchanged at the
upcoming meeting,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  