-- Commodity Fund Outflows Reach Weekly Record of $4.23 Billion
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-03-01T22:23:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/commodity-fund-outflows-jump-to-record-4-23-billion-epfr-says.html
Money managers removed a record
$4.23 billion from commodity funds in the week ended Feb. 27,
led by declines in precious-metal holdings, as raw materials
capped the biggest monthly loss since October.  Investors pulled an all-time high of $4.03 billion from
gold and precious-metals funds, said  Cameron Brandt , the
director of research for EPFR Global, which started tracking the
flows in 2000. The Cambridge, Massachusetts-based researcher
said last week that total commodity outflows for the period
ended Feb. 20 reached $828 million.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
fell 4 percent last month, the most since October, amid concern
that the  Federal Reserve  will ease stimulus measures, and as the
dollar posted its biggest monthly gain since May. Money managers
are holding the smallest commodity net-long  position , or bets on
a rally, since March 2009, government data show.  “You’ve had a series of things that have been negative for
commodities, like a stronger dollar and concerns that stimulus
would end,” said Adrian Day, who manages about $160 million of
assets as the president of Adrian Day Asset Management in
Annapolis,  Maryland . “At the same time, the stock market is
doing well, so a lot of people are saying let’s jump on a train
that’s moving in the right direction.”  Commodity Slump  The S&P GSCI dropped 2.4 percent this week in  New York , the
fourth straight decline and the the longest losing streak since
June. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities was little
changed, while the dollar rose 1 percent against a basket of six
trading partners. Treasuries returned 0.4 percent, a Bank of
America Corp. index shows.  Wheat, nickel and silver tumbled more than 8 percent in
February. All but two of the 24 raw materials tracked by the S&P
GSCI declined on prospects for increased supply and concern that
growth will slow in  China , the world’s biggest consumer of
everything from copper to cotton.  The official Chinese  Purchasing Managers ’ Index was 50.1 in
February, the weakest in five months and down from 50.4 in
January, a report from the National Bureau of Statistics and
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing showed today in
Beijing. A separate gauge from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics dropped to a four-month low of 50.4 from 52.3.
Readings above 50 indicate expansion.  China Outlook  “Some of the numbers out of China, they’re kind of a bit
spotty,”  John Kinsey , who helps manage about C$1 billion
($973.5 million) at Caldwell Investment Management Ltd. in
Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “People tend to be
nervous there. You look at the commodity prices, and they tend
to react to the Chinese economic numbers.”  Wheat fell below $7 a bushel on Feb. 26 for the first time
since June as snowstorms promised relief to drought-stricken
U.S. winter crops. Futures for May delivery on the Chicago Board
of Trade rose 0.2 percent this week to close at $7.205, after
declining 8.3 percent in February.  Oil dropped 2.6 percent to $90.68 a barrel this week on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange . U.S.  crude production  rose to 7.12
million barrels a day in the week ended Feb. 15, the highest
since August 1992, a Feb. 21 Energy Information Administration
report showed.  Gold futures fell to $1,572.30 an ounce on the Comex in New
York, the lowest settlement since July 18. The metal, down less
than 0.1 percent this week, has dropped 6.2 percent in 2013. It
was the fourth straight weekly decline.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the cycle for bullion has
probably turned after rallying for its 12th straight year in
2012. The bank cut its three-month target to $1,615 from $1,825
in a Feb. 25 report.  “We see a general situation where people are cutting some
of their losses in commodities,”  Michael Strauss , who helps
oversee about $25 billion of assets as chief investment
strategist at Commonfund Group in Wilton,  Connecticut , said in a
telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  