-- Cone-Sucking U.S. Invader Shrinks Mediterranean Pine-Nut Crop
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-03-01T06:50:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/cone-sucking-u-s-invader-shrinks-mediterranean-pine-nut-crop.html
The Mediterranean region’s pine-nut
harvest fell 63 percent last year after an invasive insect pest
from the U.S. damaged cones from  Turkey  to Portugal, pushing up
prices for the tree seeds used to make pesto.  Gathering of pine nuts across the region declined to 905
metric tons from 2,445 tons in 2011, based on estimates from the
International Nut & Dried Fruit Council, or INC. The Reus,
Spain-based council had previously forecast a pine-nut crop of
2,700 tons around the Mediterranean.  “Pine-nut production in the  entire  Mediterranean basin has
experienced a strong reduction, in both the number of pine cones
and in the yield,” said Irene Girones, project coordinator at
the council. “Estimates have been reduced dramatically.”  The damage was caused by the  western conifer seed bug ,
according to Girones. The 2-centimeter (0.8-inch) bug, a native
of the western U.S., feeds on pine cones and has spread across
the region since it was first found in  Italy  in 1999, appearing
in Turkey in 2009 and Portugal in 2010.  Spain ’s harvest of nuts of the stone pine fell to 280 tons
last year from 845 tons in 2011, whereas the INC had initially
expected the crop to total 700 tons, according to Girones.  Turkey’s output fell to 350 tons from 650 tons, less than a
third of the INC’s earlier forecast for a 2012 harvest of 1,100
tons. The country is the largest grower of Mediterranean stone
pines outside the European Union.  Turkish Producers  “We spoke to Turkish producers who say they have only very
limited quantities of pine nuts,” said Jochen Voecks, who
trades the tree seeds at German dried-fruit company Michael
Priestoph GmbH in Hamburg.  Portugal ’s crop slipped to 125 tons from 650 tons, a
quarter of what had been initially predicted, the INC estimates.
Italy gathered 150 tons of pine nuts from 300 tons in 2011,
according to the council.  Italian import prices for pine nuts from Turkey, the
country’s main supplier, rose to 34.99 euros ($46.12) a kilogram
(2.2 pounds) in December, climbing 34 percent from 26.03 euros a
year earlier, Eurostat trade data show.  “This price level is not sustainable,” and users will
look for cheaper alternatives if supply of the Mediterranean
variety doesn’t recover, said Sven Mutke, a researcher at
Madrid-based forest research center INIA-Cifor. Walnuts and
cashews can be substitutes for pine nuts in pesto.  Pompeii Ruins  Pine-nut remains have been found in the ruins of Pompeii.
Large stone-pine forests were planted in Italy after Papal
decrees, including one in 1666 near Fregene, north of  Rome ,
which still exists,  according  to the  United Nations ’ Food &
Agriculture Organization.  The western conifer seed bug feeds on pine nuts by piercing
cones and digesting the developing seeds. The bug’s feeding on
 stone pines  causes deterioration for 50 percent of first-year
pine cones and 65 percent for second-year cones, according to
data collected as part of Tuscany’s forest-health monitoring
project  META .  “The actual impact of its damage to stone-pine cones is
still under study,” Mutke said. “Where it appeared, many
unripe cones abort and dry, and those cones that ripen have a
very low seed output.”  Italy’s harvest of pine cones fell to 13,000 tons in 2005
from 80,000 tons in 1995, without any recovery in intermediate
years,  according  to the country’s Pedology and Agrobiology
Research Centre in Florence. Pine nuts typically make up about 4
percent of cone weight, which can drop to 2 percent due to
damage by the seed bug, according to Mutke.  Cone Weevil  Endemic pests of  Europe ’s conifers include the cone weevil
and the pine-cone moth. Global warming is also making stone
pines more  susceptible  to a fungus called diplodia pinea, which
can be spread by the western conifer seed bug, according to
researchers at the University of Florence.  Mutke said there’s still uncertainty to what extent the
cone losses are caused by the western conifer seed bug or other
factors, particularly the Mediterranean’s increasing droughts in
recent years. Spain had its second-driest summer in 60 years in
2012, according to the Agriculture Ministry weather service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  