-- Convicted UBS Trader Adoboli Appeals Rogue-Trade Sentence
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-03-01T09:26:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/convicted-ubs-trader-adoboli-appeals-rogue-trade-sentence.html
Convicted  UBS AG (UBSN)  trader Kweku Adoboli asked a British appeals court to overturn his seven-year
prison sentence for causing a $2.3 billion loss through
unauthorized trades.  Adoboli, 32, was convicted in November of two counts of
fraud for causing the loss at the bank’s  London  unit. He filed
the request to have his case reviewed with the U.K. Court of
Appeal in London in December, according to court records made
available this week. The appeals court must decide whether to
hear the case.  Adoboli pleaded not guilty and argued at trial that
managers at the Swiss bank pushed him to take too many risks and
that rule-breaking at the bank was rampant. While he admitted
causing the loss, he said it wasn’t done dishonestly. Adoboli
was ordered to serve at least half of the seven-year term. He’s
already been in custody for more than a year, including his time
in jail before trial.  He is serving his sentence at  Verne Prison  on the Isle of
 Portland , a jail on a small island off the south coast of
Dorset,  England , that was once a military barracks. He has
joined the choir and taken on a volunteer role at the prison.  While the 10-member jury was unanimous in finding Adoboli
guilty of one count of fraud during the period in which the loss
was caused, jurors didn’t reach unanimous decisions on the
remaining fraud count and on four counts of false accounting. He
was convicted 9-1 on the second fraud charge, which dated back
to 2008, and acquitted on the false accounting charges.  Adoboli, who worked for UBS since leaving college, was
accused of hiding the risk of his trades by booking fake hedges
and storing profits in a secret account to cover the costs of
running the bank’s exchange-traded-funds desk.  His lawyer,  Tim Harris , didn’t immediately respond to a
request for comment. UBS spokesman  Richard Morton  declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  