-- Cory Booker, Laurie Tisch, Buscemi for Jersey: NYC Scene
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-03-01T16:57:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/cory-booker-laurie-tisch-buscemi-for-jersey-nyc-scene.html
New Jersey  pulled off a fundraising
hat trick in Manhattan last night, and then some.  Newark mayor Cory A. Booker courted donations for his 2014
senate campaign at the Fifth Avenue apartment of Laurie Tisch,
whose almost second home, as an owner of the  New York Giants , is
the MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey.  Guests included the Giants’ Victor Cruz and Jane Hartley,
chief executive officer of Observatory Group LLC.  Caesars Atlantic City  was lead sponsor of “Adults in
Toyland -- Casino Night Gaming for a Cause.” The event at the
Plaza Hotel raised more than $700,000 for the  Stephen D.
Hassenfeld Children’s Center  for Cancer & Blood Disorders at NYU
Langone Medical Center.  At the cocktail party for  New Jersey Needs You , which is
based in Jersey City and mentors first-generation college
students, guests could actually see the Garden State. The event
took place at Jack Studios in the Starrett-Lehigh Building,
whose windows face west to the Hudson River.  Two days earlier the Children’s Brain Tumor Foundation’s
Texas Hold ’Em Poker Tournament brought Atlantic City gaming to
the pub Stout on West 33rd Street.  Fighting Hunger  Chef  Tom Colicchio , born in Elizabeth, New Jersey, helped
raise awareness of hunger in the U.S. with the Feb. 27 screening
of “A Place at the Table.” Colicchio is executive producer of
the documentary, which his wife, Lori Silverbush, co-directed.  Guests included actors  Jeff Bridges  and  Matt Dillon ,  Lou Reed  and  Jon Stewart  of “The Daily Show.”  “I really liked the film,” said actor Steve Buscemi, star
of  HBO ’s “Boardwalk Empire.” “I hope it really gets exposure
because this is an important issue. I hope Congress gets to see
it.”  The New Jersey Needs You gathering probably had the biggest
number of Garden State cheerleaders, among them Mark Savino, who
works at Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co. and grew up in
Lawrenceville, New Jersey, and Joseph Gasparro, associate
director at  UBS AG (UBSN)  in the financial-institutions group, who has
an MBA from  Rutgers University , New Brunswick, New Jersey.  “My goal is to open up all the secrets to getting a job
and building a career after college,” Gasparro, a co-chairman
of the Young Leadership Board said. “How to interview, what to
wear -- we also buy them a suit.” A favored brand is  Charles
Tyrwhitt .  The program is modeled after New York Needs You, founded by
Robert Reffkin, who recently left Goldman Sachs to start a
hyperlocal search company called Urban Compass.  Labor Market  The major difference between the New Jersey and New York
programs is the labor market.  “The students in  New York  are interested in finance and
consulting,” Pauly Rodney, executive director of New Jersey
Needs You, said. “In New Jersey they’re interested in
engineering, STEM and pharma.”  The program has launched with 25 students and plans to add
another 25 in June. The cost for mentoring each student is
$2,300 a year, Rodney said.  The gaming nights ended with great prizes. At Adults in
Toyland, Gabe Kellermeyer, project manager of Corcoran Sunshine
Marketing Group, won a trip to Atlantic City.  “There are a lot of women around Gabe who want to be his
best friend right now,” said the event’s emcee, Jeff Rossen,
investigative correspondent for NBC.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 