-- U.S. Corporate Credit Swaps Fall; Bond Sales Reach Six-Week High
-- B y   M a d h u r a   K a r n i k
-- 2013-03-01T22:04:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/credit-swaps-in-u-s-advance-as-automatic-spending-cuts-approach.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk fell to the lowest level in about a week as manufacturing
and  consumer confidence  data eased concern that automatic
spending cuts set to begin today will curb economic growth.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 1.7
basis points to a mid-price of 86.3 basis points at 4:38 p.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
lowest level since 85.4 on Feb. 19.  A report from the  Institute for Supply Management  showed
that manufacturing activity in the country expanded to the
highest level since June 2011. The ISM factory index increased
to 54.2 in February from 53.1 the previous month, reducing
concern that companies will struggle to repay debts in a
faltering economy.  “The economic data provides confirmation that there is
underlying strength and resilience in the economy and suggests
we can absorb the effects of sequestration without suffering
another recession,” Edward Marrinan, a macro credit strategist
at RBS Securities, said in a telephone interview from  Stamford ,
 Connecticut .  Consumer sentiment among American households rose more than
projected in February, the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan final index showed today. The index, which climbed to
77.6 from 73.8 in January, was projected to match the
preliminary reading of 76.3, according to the median estimate of
58 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Spending Cuts  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Democrats and Republicans are in a standoff over how to
avert the cuts totaling $1.2 trillion over nine years, $85
billion of which would occur in the remaining seven months of
this fiscal year. The cuts, also known as sequestration, are set
to come into effect before midnight today.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index fell 8.7 basis points to 432.7 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  Sales of company bonds in the U.S. rose to the highest
level in six weeks, as relative yields on the debt widened.  Defaults Rise  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) , the world’s largest
publicly traded copper producer, and Purchase, New York-based
 PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  led offerings of at least $32.7 billion this week,
up from $26.4 billion last week and the most since $53.3 billion
in the five days ended Jan. 18, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The global default rate for high-yield bonds graded by
Moody’s Investors Service rose to 2.6 percent at the end of 2012
from 1.9 percent a year earlier, according to a report from the
ratings company. Defaults were concentrated in  North America ,
with 44 issuers defaulting on $29 billion of debt.  The ratings firm forecasts defaults will end this year at
2.7 percent. “The monetary environment will remain
accommodative in the near future,” Albert Metz, managing
director of credit policy research at Moody’s, wrote in the
report.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-
rated, debt rose 1.8 basis points to 508.6 basis points, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s and less than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madhura Karnik in New York at 
 mkarnik@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  