-- Cuomo Asked by Judge About Need for Speed in Gun Suit
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c   a n d   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-03-04T18:50:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/cuomo-asked-by-judge-about-need-for-speed-in-ny-gun-suit.html
(Corrects to show Schulz’s role in case is lead plaintiff
in 13th paragraph of story originally published March 1.)  New York  Governor  Andrew Cuomo  and
leaders of the legislature were ordered by a judge to justify by
March 11 why they expedited passage of the state’s new gun-
control law.  State Supreme Court Justice Judge Gerald Connolly asked for
the explanation in a lawsuit claiming Cuomo and legislators
abused their discretion in waiving the usual three-day period
between the time a bill is introduced and when it’s voted on.
The measure was presented to the Senate and passed on Jan. 14.
It cleared the Assembly on Jan. 15, the day Cuomo signed it.  Connolly told the governor and lawmakers to file papers
showing why he shouldn’t issue a temporary injunction blocking
the new law from taking effect.  We The People of New York Inc. , a Queensbury,  New York- 
based group that says its goal is to hold elected officials
accountable to the state and federal constitutions, filed the
complaint Jan. 25, arguing the gun measure is unconstitutional
and was enacted improperly.  In addition to Cuomo, Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, and
Dean Skelos and Jeff Klein, who share leadership of the state
Senate were also named as defendants in the lawsuit.  New York became the first state to pass legislation
tightening gun regulations in response to the Dec. 14 Newtown,
Connecticut, school massacre.  Loopholes Closed  The measure closes loopholes in a state 2000 assault
weapons ban, bars magazines that hold more than seven rounds of
ammunition and makes it easier to keep firearms away from the
mentally ill.  “We believe the law is, and the process was, valid and
constitutional,” Rich Azzopardi, a Cuomo spokesman, said in an
e-mailed statement  Cuomo has said speedy enactment was necessary to prevent a
run on banned assault-style rifles while the bill was pending.  Expedited passage, through a so-called message of
necessity, enabled lawmakers to eliminate the three-day waiting
period.  Cuomo used messages of necessity five times last year and
29 times in 2011, according to an analysis by  New York Public
Interest Research Group , a nonprofit watchdog group.  The 55-year-old Democrat used the messages to get lawmakers
to quickly act in legalizing same-sex marriage in June 2011 and
approving a pension overhaul last year that raised the
 retirement age  for public employees to 63 from 62.  Robert Schulz , the lead plaintiff in the case, said the
message of necessity for the gun legislation was a sham.  “There was no legitimate need for speed,” Schulz said in
a statement today. “The people of New York should be very
concerned about a governor and acquiescent legislature with a
king-like approach to governing.”  The new law is known as the New York Secure Ammunition and
Firearms Enforcement Act, or NY SAFE ACT.  The case is Schulz v. Cuomo, 1232-13, New York State
Supreme Court, Albany County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net ;
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  