-- Czech Economy Signals Worse May Be Over in Recession
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-03-01T10:04:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/czech-economy-signals-worse-may-be-over-in-recession.html
Czech manufacturing data improved in
February, another signal the country’s longest recession on
record may be bottoming out.  The HSBC Czech Manufacturing PMI rose to an 11-month high
of 49.9 points, from 48.3 points in January, the bank said today
in a report compiled by financial-information company Markit. A
result above 50 signals an improved performance in
manufacturing, while a figure below signals deterioration. The
February composite  economic-sentiment  indicator showed the best
reading in eight months, the Statistics Office said Feb. 25.  The  economy  has contracted for four quarters as austerity
measures curbed spending by households and companies while the
euro-area crisis damped demand for exports. Policy makers in
 Prague  are debating whether the recession, which is taming
inflation, warrants more policy easing through koruna sales
after cutting borrowing costs to effectively  zero  in 2012.  “It seems that the worst is indeed over for Czech
manufacturing and the economy in general but this still must be
confirmed by improving confidence in the months to come and
particularly by hard data on industrial output, exports or
retail sales,” Radomir Jac, chief analyst at Generali PPF Asset
management in Prague, said in an e-mail today.  The Czech koruna gained 0.1 percent to 25.636 to the euro
as of 10:29 a.m. in Prague. The  yield  on the 5-year government
bond fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.02
percent today, according to generic data compiled by Bloomberg.  New Orders  New orders increased for the first time since March 2012,
although marginally, while output was flat, the HSBC said in the
PMI report today. Manufacturers continued to cut workforces and
purchases of new inputs, however, and cost pressures remained
strong, it said.  The  Czech Republic  is “at the start of a gradual return to
normal economic conditions” providing the euro-area crisis
doesn’t escalate further, central bank Governor Miroslav Singer
said in a Feb. 28 presentation posted on the bank’s website.  “Czech GDP may stabilize in the first quarter of 2013,
that means it may remain flat on the quarter-to-quarter basis
and start to gradually recover since the second quarter of the
year,” Jac said.  The Ceska Narodni Banka, which targets  inflation , cut its
economic forecasts for 2013 as the government’s austerity
measures continue to damp demand. The bank sees the 2013 gross
domestic product contracting 0.3 percent, compared with a
previous estimate of 0.2 percent growth.  GDP shrank 0.2 percent in the final three months of last
year, marking the fourth consecutive quarterly decline,
according to preliminary data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  