-- Deutsche Bank Cut to Sell at Goldman on U.S. Capital
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-03-01T17:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/deutsche-bank-cut-to-sell-at-goldman-on-u-s-capital.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  fell the most in
more than five months after  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc. cut the
company to sell from hold, saying it may have to transfer $13
billion to its U.S. unit because of new capital rules.  Deutsche Bank slid as much as 6.2 percent, the biggest
intraday drop since Sept. 26, and declined 4.3 percent to 33.57
euros at the 5:45 p.m. close in Frankfurt. The stricter
requirements may hurt profit at  Europe ’s biggest bank by assets
and require it to ask shareholders for more money, Goldman Sachs
analysts including Jernej Omahen said in an e-mailed report from
 London  today.  “Such an intragroup transfer would cause a sharp reduction
in Deutsche Bank’s non-U.S. capitalization, which could increase
pressure for an external recapitalization,” the analysts wrote.
“The proposal is also stringent on funding, as it calls for a
liquidity stress test. The impact on Deutsche Bank’s profit
could be substantial.”  The  Federal Reserve  proposed in November ordering 23
foreign banks to adhere to stricter  capital requirements  to
reduce risks to the financial system. Deutsche Bank co-Chief
Executive Officer Anshu Jain said in January he wants his firm
to be “very focused on the U.S.” because of its economic
prospects and the presence the bank has built there.  ‘Step Backward’  Elke Koenig, chief of German regulator Bafin, criticized
the U.S. plan yesterday. It was a “unilateral decision” and a
“step backward” for international coordination on regulation,
she said on the sidelines of a banking conference in Frankfurt.  Deutsche Bank, the least capitalized of Europe’s four
biggest investment banks, has narrowed the gap with peers by
building reserves without diluting the holdings of its owners
with a share sale. Jain told reporters in January that he can’t
rule out such a sale should regulation tighten.  Separately,  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA , the
world’s oldest bank which yesterday received a 4.1 billion-euro
($5.3 billion) government bailout, said today that it sued
Deutsche Bank and  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  over two derivatives that
soured.  Kathryn Hanes, a spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank in London,
said the company had no immediate comment on the case, as did
 Rob Davies , a spokesman for Nomura.  Goldman’s 12-month price estimate for Deutsche Bank is 37.3
euros, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  