-- Dodd-Frank Swap Oversight Goal Stymied as Firms Fight Over Data
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-03-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/dodd-frank-swap-oversight-goal-stymied-as-firms-fight-over-data.html
More than two years after Congress
voted to bring swap transactions out of the shadows so they
could be tallied and monitored, U.S. regulators are still
struggling to build a system that works.  Officials at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission have
found inconsistencies and gaps in the trading data the
Depository Trust and Clearing Corp. began to supply late last
year, according to three people familiar with the matter.  The agency is also threatened with litigation by DTCC and
competitor  CME Group (CME)  Inc., which are at odds over how
information about the market should be routed and stored. The
CFTC is preparing to approve CME’s view on the issue by March 6,
according to one of the people.  As a result, two months after the agency said it had opened
an “important new window” into the $639 trillion swaps market,
the regulator is falling short of a key goal of the 2010 Dodd-
Frank Act and the trades are still taking place without clear
government oversight.  Gary DeWaal of consulting firm Gary DeWaal and Associates
and former general counsel at Newedge USA LLC, said the agency
encountered problems by seeking to build a new type of data
collection system from scratch.  “When you create something new, all the vested interests
get interested and create debates and litigation,” DeWaal said
in a telephone interview. “People are asking if we made it any
better.”  President  Barack Obama  enacted Dodd-Frank in part to
regulate the over-the-counter swaps market, which was blamed for
exacerbating the 2008 financial crisis triggered by the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Bankruptcy Impact  “Regulators did not know nearly enough about the over-the-
counter derivatives activities at Lehman and other investment
banks, which were major OTC derivatives dealers,” the Financial
Crisis Inquiry Commission concluded  in a report  in 2011. “There
was no way to know who would be owed how much and when payments
would have to be made -- information that would be critically
important to analyze the possible impact of a Lehman bankruptcy
on derivatives counterparties and the financial markets.”  Congress granted authority to the CFTC and Securities and
Exchange Commission to write rules requiring data to be reported
to regulators and the public. The law set up so-called swap data
repositories as central recordkeepers of information about
buyers and sellers, volume and prices.  Hundreds of pages of rules governing the databases were
among the first regulations completed by the five-member
commission and began to take effect at the end of 2012. Swap
dealers including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  had to begin reporting price and other data on  interest
rate  and credit swaps by the end of last year.  Key Goal  In a Jan. 2 news release, the agency said the reporting was
helping oversight of the swaps market.  “This week’s implementation of transparency and oversight
reforms begins to fulfill key goals of the Dodd-Frank Act,”
CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in the statement.  Steven Adamske , a CFTC spokesman, said yesterday that he
could not comment on the matter.  Larry Thompson, general counsel at DTCC, said the agency
has been in touch with the company and officials “have raised
with us questions about how timely the information is and things
of that sort.”  The CFTC has also raised questions about the formatting of
data, Thompson said, in a telephone interview. “I believe we’ve
responded to all of that and have dealt with it,” he said.  Data Capture  The recordkeeping process for the repositories including
DTCC, CME Group’s database and one run by Intercontinental
Exchange Inc. is also raising questions about how the data is
captured for cleared trades. Dodd-Frank seeks to have most swaps
guaranteed at clearinghouses as a way to limit risk in the
market. Clearinghouses collect collateral from buyers and
sellers to protect one side from a counterparty’s default.  A clearinghouse replaces a trade between a buyer and a
seller by standing between the parties and guaranteeing the
transaction. How the trade terminations are accounted for in the
process is also at issue in the recordkeeping rules.  “Our participants have given very explicit instructions to
both ICE and CME that they control whether or not their
transactions are terminated and not the clearinghouse,” DTCC’s
Thompson said. The company accepts requests to terminate the
trade from parties to the original trade, he said.  CME Data  The CFTC is planning by March 6 to decide whether to
approve a rule request from CME that would require its
clearinghouse to route data to its own swap data repository
instead of allowing buyers or sellers to decide.  The CFTC is planning to support CME’s argument over the
objections of DTCC and banks including JPMorgan,  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and  Deutsche Bank AG. (DB) , according to the people briefed on the
matter.  The approval would come after CME filed a lawsuit in
December that sought to block the agency’s cleared-swaps
reporting regulations. A day after the agency amended one of its
policies and sought comment on the CME proposed rule filing, CME
withdrew the lawsuit.  DTCC faulted the CFTC in a Nov. 29  statement  for amending
its policies after spending more than a year crafting rules for
data reporting. The change was “an abrupt reversal of course,”
the DTCC said in the statement.  If the CFTC approves the CME rule filing, DTCC would
consider all options including litigation, Thompson said in the
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  