-- Ford to GM See Demand Unfazed If U.S. Reduces Spending
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-03-02T18:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/dodge-drives-chrysler-u-s-auto-sales-to-tie-90s-streak.html
Automakers led by  General Motors Co. (GM) 
and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  predict demand for cars and trucks, on pace
for the best year since 2007, will remain resilient even as the
U.S. was unable to avert government spending cuts that took
effect yesterday.  Vehicles on U.S. roads are the oldest on average in
history, and Americans will continue to look to replace them
with more fuel-efficient models also equipped with better
technology features, the automakers’ sales executives said
yesterday. Ford reported its best February sales in six years.  “It’s inevitable there might be a slight, slight offset,
but I think the positive factors” boosting auto demand “will
overcome,”  Ken Czubay , Ford’s vice president of U.S. marketing,
sales and service, said yesterday on a conference call.  U.S. light-vehicle sales in February rose 3.7 percent to
1.19 million, matching the average estimate of 10 analysts. The
annualized sales  rate , which is adjusted for seasonal trends,
rose to 15.4 million from 14.5 million a year earlier. The
average sales pace projected by 15 analysts was 15.3 million.  Ford’s deliveries of cars and light trucks last month
climbed 9.3 percent, GM’s jumped 7.2 percent,  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ’s increased 4.3 percent and Chrysler Group LLC’s rose 4.1
percent, according to company statements.  The average estimates of 11 analysts were for gains of 9.8
percent by Ford, 4.9 percent for GM and 4.4 percent for
Chrysler. GM and Chrysler, majority owned by  Fiat SpA (F) , said
separately their February sales were the best in five years.
Toyota was projected to report an 8.5 percent increase, the
average of eight analysts’ estimates.  U.S. Cuts  With Democrats and Republicans deadlocked over how to
replace across-the-board cuts, known as sequestration, totaling
$1.2 trillion over nine years, President  Barack Obama  issued an
order last night putting the reductions into effect -- $85
billion worth for the remaining seven months of the current
fiscal year.  “There’s a lot of discussion about Washington right now,
but we still feel that the fundamentals are strong and are going
to continue,” Kurt McNeil, vice president of U.S. sales
operations, said yesterday on the company’s conference call.  GM rose 0.2 percent to $27.21 at the close in  New York 
yesterday, while Ford was unchanged at $12.61. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.2 percent.  Sales dropped 2 percent for Honda Motor Co. and 6.6 percent
for Nissan Motor Co. in February. The averages of eight
analysts’ estimates was for a 0.7 percent increase for Honda and
a 3.3 percent decline for Nissan.  Credit Environment  New-car buyers, shunned by lenders just four years ago, are
now benefiting from historically low  interest rates  and better
availability of financing. Auto sales rebounded from the U.S.
recession that ended in 2009 more quickly than housing did,
boosting the economy as volumes approach pre-recession levels.  Banks reported the most common rate for a 48-month new-car
loan was  4.82 percent  in November, the most-recent reporting
period. The rates have dropped from more than 7 percent before
the Fed lowered its target interest rate to zero in December
2008 and began large-scale asset purchases to boost growth.  “People quite frankly have become completely numb to that
whole budget issue,”  Al Castignetti , Nissan’s vice president of
U.S. sales, said in an interview, adding that consumers will
“absolutely not” pull back in March if the spending cuts go
into effect. “ Consumer confidence  is on the rise. People are
taking advantage of the low interest rates.”  Growth ‘Drag’  Ford’s has said its outlook is for about 2 percent to 2.5
percent growth for the  U.S. economy  this year. Full
implementation of the sequester may represent a “drag” on
gross domestic product of about half a percentage point, Ellen Hughes-Cromwick, Ford’s chief economist, said yesterday on the
company’s call.  In spite of the potential headwind, Ford plans to boost
second-quarter production to 800,000 vehicles in  North America ,
from 737,000 a year earlier. Chrysler said Feb. 28 it will
invest $374 million to increase output of transmissions.  “I think people will keep on buying,”  Sergio Marchionne ,
Chrysler’s chief executive officer, told reporters Feb. 28 at
one of the company’s factories in central  Indiana . He declined
to comment about the government’s negotiations, telling
reporters “I’m not part of it, nor do I think it’s going to
have a negative impact” on industry sales.  GM’s Pickups  GM, which has been targeting lower full-size pickup
inventory ahead of the release of new trucks this year, reduced
its stock of those models to 97 days supply from 117 at the end
of January. Sales of Chevrolet Silverado pickups rose 29 percent
in February, while GMC Sierra surged 25 percent, the Detroit-
based company said in a statement.  Large pickups make up one of the main sources of profit for
GM, Ford and Chrysler. Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford’s F-Series
pickups recorded a 15 percent sales gain last month while
Chrysler’s Ram deliveries rose 3.1 percent.  Chrysler’s Dodge brand sales surged 30 percent as the Dart
compact, introduced in June, set a monthly record of 7,720
deliveries. Chrysler’s sales have increased 35 consecutive
months, matching the longest streak for the Auburn Hills,
Michigan-based company since one that ended December 1994.  Combined sales for  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) 
declined 2.5 percent last month to 93,816, the first monthly
drop for the affiliates’ total deliveries since August 2010. The
average estimate of six analysts was for a 5.1 percent decrease.
Hyundai’s sales grew 2.3 percent and Kia’s slipped 7.8 percent,
the Seoul-based companies said in separate statements.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  posted an 8.2 percent increase in combined
sales for its VW and Audi brands, trailing the 9.2 percent
average of four analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net . 