-- Drummond to Restart 80,000 Tons a Day of Colombian Coal Exports
-- B y   A n a t o l y   K u r m a n a e v   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   E m e r y
-- 2013-03-01T17:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/drummond-to-restart-80-000-tons-a-day-of-colombian-coal-exports.html
Drummond Co. , Colombia’s second-
biggest thermal coal producer, will restart exports after the
government ended a three-week ban on loading operations.  Authorities will continue an estimated four-month
investigation into a Jan. 12-13 incident in which Drummond
dumped material to prevent a barge from sinking, said Luz Helena
Sarmiento, director of environmental licensing agency ANLA.
Sarmiento, who suspended Drummond’s license Feb. 6 until it
improved contingency measures, said barges won’t be permitted
next year.  “The new contingency plan meets with technical
conditions,” Sarmiento told reporters today in Bogota. “The
restart of exports doesn’t mean the end of investigation, to
determine if it was an accident or negligence.”  Colombia, South America’s largest supplier of coal, is
losing 6 billion pesos ($3.3 million) of public revenue per day
after operations were suspended at three coal complexes, Javier
Garcia, head of corporate mining at the Mining and Energy
Ministry, said in an interview Feb. 27. Workers began a strike
Feb. 7 at the Cerrejon mine owned by  BHP Billiton Plc (BLT) ,  Xstrata
Plc (XTA)  and  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , while the operating contract at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s La Francia mine was terminated,
Garcia said.  Birmingham, Alabama-based Drummond has reserves for more
than two billion tons and shipped about 29 million tons of coal
in 2011, according to the company’s website. Paulo Gonzalez, a
Drummond spokesman in Birmingham, didn’t immediately respond to
telephone calls and an e-mail seeking comment.  Thermal coal for delivery to Amsterdam, Rotterdam or
Antwerp in 2014 fell 1.1 percent to $97.10 a ton, the biggest
intraday decline since Jan. 31, according to broker data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anatoly Kurmanaev in Bogota at 
 akurmanaev1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  