-- EasyJet to Join FTSE 100 as Founder Stelios’s Ire Falls F
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-03-01T17:05:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/easyjet-to-join-ftse-100-as-founder-stelios-s-ire-falls-f.html
EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  is set to ascend to the
FTSE 100 Index next week, joining British Airways on the U.K.
benchmark and confounding senior shareholder Stelios Haji- Ioannou’s opposition to its expansion strategy.  Europe’s second-biggest low-cost carrier has doubled its
value to 4.03 billion pounds ($6.1 billion) in the past 12
months, making the company the 84th-largest listed in  London  as
of the close of trade today, according to data compiled by
 Bloomberg News . Businesses can join the FTSE 100 only when they
rank among the top 90 to avoid yo-yoing between indexes.  From two planes in 1995, EasyJet has grown to 214 Airbus
SAS aircraft carrying more than 59 million people annually, 20
million fewer than rival  Ryanair Holdings Plc. (RYA)  Led by Chief
Executive Officer Carolyn McCall, the company has refined its
no-frills model, using allocated seating, flexible tickets and
corporate agents to grab a bigger slice of the business market.  “There’s been a huge cost focus and they’ve been very
clever at targeting high-fee paying business traffic at primary
airports and taking that market share from the legacy carriers,
who have been cutting,” said Donal O’Neill, an analyst with
 Goodbody Stockbrokers  in Dublin. “The market value reflects the
underlying performance and the performance has been phenomenal.”  Cutoff Date  FTSE Group  will announce its next quarterly assessment of
changes to the benchmark’s membership on March 6, basing its
decision on closing prices from the previous day. The changes
will take effect from the start of trading on March 15.  Shares of the Luton, England-based carrier reached a record
high on Feb. 20. The stock advanced 2 percent today, closing at
1,017 pence in London.  CEO McCall, who stepped down as head of Guardian Media
Group Plc to join EasyJet in July 2010, targeted the airline’s
on-time performance,  load factor  and profit-per-seat. Her
oversight has seen on-time arrivals jump to 88 percent from 60
percent and the load factor, a measure of occupancy, grow to
88.9 percent in 2012 from 87.2 percent two years earlier.  “Carolyn McCall at EasyJet was one of the standout
performers of 2012,”  Willie Walsh , CEO of British Airways-
parent  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) , said Feb.
28 when he presented earnings. When IAG set cost targets to
overhaul its Spanish domestic and short-haul service, it
benchmarked against EasyJet, he told analysts.  Prudent  McCall held talks with investor Stelios, who goes by his
first name, resolving a branding dispute over the use of the
“easy” name. The relationship with the airline’s founder, who
still controls 37 percent of its shares, remains contentious:
Stelios cut his holding in January for the first time since 2004
and has threatened to sell more stock if EasyJet buys more jets.  “If the board places another order for aircraft it will
destroy  shareholder value  into the future,” Stelios said in
January. “Instead of ordering new aircraft, EasyJet should aim
for a 10 percent profit margin.”  EasyJet says it’s planning “prudent” capacity increases of
3 percent to 5 percent as it develops a proposal to present to
shareholders on fleet management from 2015 and plane deliveries
after 2017. McCall also initiated payment of a maiden dividend,
boosting payments to one-third of profit after tax last year.  The airline lured 10 million corporate travelers in 2012
and boosted capacity to destinations including Switzerland and
France in the last three months of the year. It will add
lucrative business connections between Moscow and London, as
well as from Milan to Rome’s Fiumicino airport, in March.
Competitors flying on the low-cost carrier’s routes trimmed
capacity by 800,000 seats in the last quarter of 2012.  Other companies that may join the index include  London
Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) , ranked 90, while  Serco Group Plc (SRP)  and
 John Wood Group Plc (WG/)  may both be removed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  