-- Five People Dead, Six Missing in Landslide at Philippine Project
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2013-03-01T10:44:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/energy-development-halts-bacman-plant-after-restart-stock-slips.html
Five people were killed and six are
missing following a landslide at the site of a power project in
the central Leyte province of the Philippines.  Two weeks of intermittent rain triggered the landslide this
morning at  Energy Development Corp. (EDC) ’s Upper Mahiao geothermal
project, the company said today in an e-mailed statement. A
search is on for the missing workers, who were employed by
contractor First Balfour Inc., it said.  Upper Mahiao is part of the Leyte geothermal production
field, the largest wet steamfield in the world, according to
 Energy Development ’s website. It has 29 production and 10
reinjection wells.  Separately, Energy Development suspended its 110-megawatt
Bacman power plant in Albay province, weeks after it was
restarted following more than a year of repairs, it said in a
stock-exchange filing earlier today. It first shut a 55-megawatt
unit of the Bacman plant after it started to vibrate. A turbine
blade was found to have sheared off and the second unit was also
suspended for inspection, it said.  The Bacman plant located in the  Philippines ’ Luzon island
was expected to contribute as much as 4.3 billion pesos in
revenue this year, President Richard Tantoco told shareholders
in a meeting in May.  “More than the impact on revenue, I’m worried about the
reputational issues these developments may have,” Bernard Avinante, analyst at Manila-based Wealth Securities Inc, said by
phone.  Bond Sale  Energy Development plans to sell as much as 7 billion pesos
($172 million) of 10-year bonds and sign a $100 million loan by
end of this month to fund a wind-farm project in Ilocos Norte
province, Chief Financial Officer Nestor Vasay told reporters
today in Manila. Energy Development signed a deal with  Vestas
Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  today for the supply of 29  wind turbines  for
the $300 million, 87-megawatt project, scheduled to be completed
next year, he said.  Shares of Energy Development, the nation’s largest
geothermal generator, fell 11.4 percent to 6.72 pesos at the
close in Manila, its biggest decline since April 13, 2009.  First
Gen Corp. (FGEN) , parent of Energy Development, dropped 8 percent.
 First Philippine Holdings Corp. (FPH) , majority owner of First Gen,
declined 7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  