-- EPF Wants More for MISC Stake Following $2.8 Billion Buyout Bid
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2013-03-01T10:17:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/epf-wants-more-for-misc-stake-following-2-8-billion-buyout-bid.html
Petroliam Nasional Bhd. should
increase its 8.8 billion-ringgit ($2.8 billion) buyout offer for
Malaysian shipping group  MISC Bhd. (MISC) , its biggest minority
shareholder said.  “We are looking at a higher price for the shares than what
Petronas is offering now,” said Azlan Zainol, chief executive
officer of the Employees Provident Fund, which owns 9.6 percent
of the world’s second-largest liquefied natural gas shipping
company. “It has not been finalized yet. We will see how it
goes,” he said in an interview in Kuala Lumpur today.  Petroliam Nasional, the Malaysian state energy company
known as Petronas, offered 5.30 ringgit per share in January for
the remaining stake it doesn’t already own. Minority
shareholders Penang Development Corp. and Pacific Mutual Fund
Bhd. earlier told Bloomberg News that the offer is too low.  MISC, based in Kuala Lumpur, completed a rights issue at 7
ringgit per share in February 2010. The stock tumbled 44 percent
from the rights price until Petronas announced its buyout offer
on Jan. 31, as the company booked losses and exited the liner
industry. It’s since rebounded 19 percent to 5.28 ringgit,
closer to the offer price.  MISC shuttered its container-ship business last year to
focus on LNG tankers after the cargo-box unit made $789 million
of losses over three years due to global overcapacity and
falling rates. Last week, it reported fourth-quarter net income
of  $231.9 million , recovering from a $571.6 million loss during
the same period a year earlier.  Petronas already owns almost 63 percent of MISC shares,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A buyout would provide
it with greater flexibility in deciding MISC’s strategic
direction, the group said when making the offer.  Malaysia’s Employees Provident Fund is the second-biggest
state-run pension fund in the Asia-Pacific. MISC operates the
world’s second biggest fleet of LNG ships after Qatar Gas
Transport Co., according to Clarkson Plc, the world’s largest
shipbroker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers in Singapore at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  