-- Herbalife Nomionates Two Icahn Associates as Directors
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-03-01T23:13:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/herbalife-to-add-two-board-members-chosen-by-carl-icahn.html
Herbalife Ltd. (HLF)  nominated Jonathan Christodoro and Keith Cozza, two members of  Carl Icahn ’s inner
circle, to the board after the company allowed him to boost his
stake to as much as 25 percent.  Christodoro, 36, is managing director at Icahn Capital LP
and Cozza, 34, is the chief financial officer at Icahn
Associates Holding LLC. They will stand for election at the
April 25 annual shareholders meeting, according to a company
filing today. Icahn’s actions escalate the billionaire
investor’s feud with rival hedge fund manager  Bill Ackman .  The board will expand to 11 from nine members, the Cayman
Islands-based company said yesterday in a statement. Herbalife
said Icahn had a 13.6 percent stake in the company, up from the
13 percent he reported last month.  Icahn said when he disclosed his investment on Feb. 14 that
he would seek talks with the company about strategic
alternatives, including taking it private. His stake pits him
against Ackman, who has sold short 20 million shares of the
company and argued that its multi-level marketing structure is a
pyramid scheme that regulators should shut down.  “Ackman has given us an opportunity to buy a company
cheaply at a discounted price,” Icahn, 77, said yesterday in an
interview with  Trish Regan  on Bloomberg Television. “They are
in 87 countries and it is an opportunity for unemployed people
in these countries to make money. I think it’s a really good
product.”  No Micromanaging  Icahn said he doesn’t yet know whether he’ll buy more
shares at their current price and that he doesn’t plan to
micromanage the company.  Herbalife rose 0.3 percent to $40.10 at the close in New
York. The  shares  have gained 22 percent this year, while the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 6.5 percent.  Herbalife President Des Walsh said on Feb. 27 that the
company would “certainly” consider going private in a buyout
“in the right circumstance.”  “There are many people who believe that obviously the
value of the company is not represented by where the stock price
is today,” Walsh said in an interview. “So some people have
actually said that this is a company that actually would thrive
in a private situation.”  Ackman, founder of New York hedge fund Pershing Square
Capital Management LP first disclosed his bet against Herbalife
on Dec. 19 and a day later appeared at a Sohn Investment
Conference in New York, accusing Herbalife of using inflated
pricing, misleading sales information and a complicated
incentive structure to hide a pyramid scheme.  Short Sale  In a short sale, an investor borrows stock and then sells
the shares in anticipation of returning them at a lower price in
the future.  Ackman didn’t return messages seeking comment on Icahn’s
announcement.  Herbalife executives and consultants hit back at Ackman on
Jan. 10, arguing that all of Herbalife’s payments to
distributors are tied to product sales and the company’s
accounting practices are legal.  U.S. regulators at the Federal Trade Commission and the
Securities and Exchange Commission have declined to say whether
they are investigating Herbalife or intend to do so.  “With every percentage point step forward in Icahn’s march
to 25 percent ownership, the vice tightens around Ackman’s
position,” said hedge fund manager Robert Chapman of Chapman
Capital LLC, which holds a long position in Herbalife. “Between
Herbalife’s excellent operating performance and its shrinking
float of shares, it’s gonna get gory.”  While yesterday’s announcement suggests Icahn will hold
greater sway at Herbalife, a full acquisition may not be in the
cards, Thomas Graves, New York-based equity analyst at S&P
Capital IQ, said in a telephone interview.  “It’s gotten people’s hopes up that there’s going to be a
recapitalization or an accelerated stock-repurchase plan,”
Graves said. “At this point, I’m not looking for Mr. Icahn to
launch a full acquisition of Herbalife.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  