-- Hering Disappoints as Brazilian Consumers Pare Spending
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e   a n d   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2013-03-01T16:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/hering-disappoints-as-brazilian-consumers-pare-spending.html
Brazilian retailers from Cia.
Brasileira Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar to  Natura Cosmeticos
SA (NATU3)  are reporting the most disappointing profits in three years
as rising debt and inflation hinder  consumer spending .  Fourth-quarter earnings at  Pao de Acucar , Natura, Lojas
Renner SA and  Cia. Hering (HGTX3)  trailed  analysts ’ per-share estimates,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The last time that many
retailers on the benchmark Bovespa index fell short was in the
first quarter of 2010.  Shoppers who helped prop up the economy in recent years are
starting to pull back, with retail sales surprising analysts by
falling in December from a month earlier. Retailers trading at a
46 percent premium to the Bovespa reflect optimism that growth
will accelerate and unemployment remain near a record low, said
Jorge Simino, chief investment officer at pension fund Funcesp.  “Managing these stocks is like handling uranium without
gloves,” Simino said in an interview at Bloomberg’s  Sao Paulo 
office. With the shares “priced to perfection,” any bad news
can send them plunging, said Simino, who helps oversee 23.6
billion reais ($11.9 billion) in assets.  That was the case with Blumenau, Brazil-based Hering, which
tumbled 12 percent to a five-month low on Jan. 10 after saying
same-store sales slid 0.2 percent. Then, last month, the
clothing chain known for jeans and T-shirts reported fourth-
quarter sales that missed estimates as the country struggles
with inflation running at 6.15 percent, the highest in a year.  Margin Drop  Hering’s gross margin in 2012 fell almost 3 percentage
points to 46 percent, while earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization slid 2 percentage points to
27 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Hering’s
18-fold rally since 2009 led its peers and  beat  the Bovespa’s
50 percent jump. The company’s shares rose 0.8 percent to
38.71 reais at 1:04 p.m. in Sao Paulo.  “To be at this level, the stock should have high
profitability, which the company is unable to achieve,” said
Renato Prado, an analyst at Fator Corretora who covers retail.  Officials at Hering, Natura, Pao de Acucar and Renner all
declined to comment on why earnings are trailing analysts’
estimates.  Lojas Americanas SA (LAME4)  and  B2W Cia. Global do Varejo ,
the other two retailers in the Bovespa, have yet to release
results.  Brazilians are beginning to feel the strain of accelerating
inflation, rising debt burdens and a stagnant economy.  Dwindling Confidence  Consumer confidence  fell in February for a fifth straight
month, the longest  decline  since records began in 2005. The drop
in December retail sales from November surprised all 28
economists in a Bloomberg survey, and the 5 percent gain on a
year-over-year basis trailed the inflation rate and marked the
slowest holiday-season expansion since 2008. Average  household
debt  is up, too, rising to 43.42 percent of annual incomes at
the end of 2012 from 32.15 percent at the start of 2009.  Interest-rate futures show traders are betting the central
bank will raise borrowing costs by the end of June from a record
low of 7.25 percent. Inflation has exceeded the 4.5 percent
midpoint of the central bank’s target range for more than two
years.  “Brazilian consumers are quite sensitive to  interest
rates , so an increase in the interest rate will impact consumer
spending power and take some of the heat out of inflation,”
said Daniel Snowden, an Informa Global Markets economist who
covers  Brazil , in a phone interview from  London . “Consumers are
still the key pillar of Brazilian growth.”  Stock Rally  Consumer-discretionary stocks rallied last year, posting
the best gain among 10 industry groups in 2012’s second half,
even as economic expansion slowed to 0.9 percent from 2.7
percent in 2011. Consumer-default  rates  for payments more than
90 days late reached a record high of 8.2 percent in September,
the central bank said.  “Default rates are not falling,” said Funcesp’s Simino,
who is based in Sao Paulo. Companies may increase write-offs to
reflect delinquencies, while credit may begin to shrink as
lenders start seeing more customers failing to make payments,
Simino said.  Retailers will have to adjust to consumers’ rising cost
consciousness, said Fator’s Prado. Supermarket operator Pao de
Acucar is expanding smaller-format stores that are more
profitable, while women’s fashion retailer  Marisa Lojas SA (AMAR3) 
reduced its workforce and started selling shoes.  2013 Rebound?  Consumers probably will bounce back in 2013, said Carlos Thadeu de Freitas Gomes, chief economist at the National
Commerce Confederation and a former central bank director. The
group forecasts 2013 economic growth of 3 percent and a 6
percent expansion in retail sales.  “The consumer sector will still help boost GDP this year,
less so than last year because credit is scarce and families are
in debt,” Freitas Gomes said in a phone interview from  Rio de
Janeiro . High employment will be “an anchor” for consumers’
purchases, he said. “There is still room for families to
increase spending.”  Average families’ basic needs in the past five years have
grown to include amenities such as wireless phones and cable
television, Funcesp’s Simino said. That creates
“inflexibility” in household budgets and makes hanging onto
work all the more important, he said.  “Consumers today are much more in debt than before,”
Simino said. “The chances of future job loss become more
dangerous.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net ;
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  