-- Merkel’s Government Urges German States to Drop Fiscal-Bill Veto
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-03-01T14:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/merkel-s-government-urges-german-states-to-drop-fiscal-bill-veto.html
German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
government called on the country’s opposition-controlled states
to drop their veto of a fiscal-compact bill after it was blocked
in the upper house in an election-year squabble over costs.  The legislation was voted down for a second time in three
months today, as the opposition Social Democrats and Green Party
exercised their majority in the upper chamber in Berlin, the
 Bundesrat , to inflict a defeat on Merkel. The bill will now go
to a committee of mediation.  “It’s incomprehensible,” Martin Kotthaus, chief Finance
Ministry spokesman, told reporters in Berlin. “This is what
Germany has fought for over the past few years in Europe.” He
appealed to the states to demonstrate their sense of “European
responsibility” and agree to the bill’s measures.  The blocking of the legislation anchoring the fiscal
compact in German law is an embarrassment for Merkel, who pushed
for the stricter budget rules at European level, winning
agreement from 25 of the European Union’s 27 members in late
2011. Twelve countries have so far enacted the measure. Finance
Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble has advocated a form of fiscal
compact for the Group of 20 nations.  German “dithering” in approving the bill sends a “bad
signal to  Europe ,” Saxony’s prime minister, Stanislaw Tillich,
a member of Merkel’s Christian Democrats, said in the Bundesrat.
The move can only be ascribed to “other issues,” Kotthaus
said, citing the stand-off between the government and the
Bundesrat over a treaty with Switzerland to clamp down on tax
evasion.  State Friction  With federal elections due on Sept. 22, the opposition-led
states have raised the stakes for approving bills on topics such
as consumer finance for cutting housing energy bills and
legislation to lower income tax. The mediation committee will
tackle four areas of contention on the fiscal compact, including
sanctions for infringing budget targets and the sale of federal-
state bonds.  The fiscal compact was agreed on by Merkel’s Cabinet last
year and obliges  Germany ’s 16 states to adjust their spending
programs to help the nation balance its budget in perpetuity
from 2015. Merkel’s coalition amended the implementation bill
after it was initially vetoed by the states in December.  In an eight-page summary posted on the  Bundesrat website ,
the states said they called for mediation to secure additional
finance for infrastructure spending as they seek to meet deficit
targets. The states also want legal clarification on respective
federal and state fiscal responsibilities and on sanctions
should they fail to meet targets.  In wooing German states to back the treaty before it was
signed last year, Schaeuble promised to sell joint federal-state
bonds to help cut debt costs for the regions, according to the
Bundesrat website. The states want Schaeuble to agree to the
federal government sharing joint liability for the bonds, a step
he has so far rejected.  No date has been set for the mediation committee to discuss
the bill, a Bundesrat spokeswoman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  