-- Ernst & Young to Pay $123 Million to End Tax-Fraud Probe
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-03-02T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/ernst-young-to-pay-123-million-to-end-tax-fraud-probe.html
Ernst & Young LLP will pay $123
million to resolve a U.S. tax-fraud probe as part of a non-
prosecution agreement, according to a statement by the  Manhattan 
U.S. Attorney’s Office.  The accounting firm “admitted wrongful conduct” by its
partners and employees in connection with four tax shelters from
1999 to 2004, according to yesterday’s statement. About 200
Ernst & Young clients used the shelters to try to avoid more
than $2 billion in taxes, prosecutors said.  In addition to the money and the admissions, Ernst & Young
agreed to a series of permanent restrictions on its tax practice
and will continue to cooperate with the government’s tax-shelter
investigation. The firm’s cooperation began in 2003, according
to the statement.  In exchange, prosecutors agreed not to charge the firm in
connection with the case. The non-prosecution agreement doesn’t
cover individual Ernst & Young partners and employees, according
to the statement.  “Ernst & Young is pleased to put this matter from a decade
ago behind us,” spokeswoman Amy Call Well said in an e-mailed
statement. “As the settlement with the U.S. Attorney’s office
recognizes, these activities represent an isolated period in the
firm’s long history of providing ethical and professional tax
services.”  Earlier Settlement  Ernst & Young settled an IRS examination in 2003, paying
$15 million and agreeing to improve its internal quality
monitoring system, according to the firm.  Last year, BDO Seidman LLP agreed to pay $50 million in a
deferred prosecution deal. In 2010, Deutsche Bank AG reached a
$553.6 million non-prosecution agreement with the U.S. KPMG LLP
settled a tax shelter investigation for $456 million in 2005.  Donna Guerin, a former partner with the law firm Jenkens &
Gilchrist, pleaded guilty in September to one count of
conspiracy and one count of  tax evasion  for her part in what
prosecutors have called the biggest tax-fraud prosecution in
history.  Prosecutors claimed Guerin helped run a 10-year tax shelter
scheme that cost the U.S. $92 million in lost taxes. She was
sentenced yesterday to eight years in prison and ordered to pay
$190 million in restitution by U.S. District Judge William Pauley in Manhattan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  