-- Merrill Sued by Private Equity Banker for $14 Million Bonus
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-03-01T11:41:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/merrill-sued-by-private-equity-banker-seeking-14-million-bonus.html
Matthew Turner, a former private
equity executive at  Bank of America Corp. ’s Merrill Lynch unit,
sued the company for about $14 million in bonuses he says were
promised and never paid.  Turner, who was head of private equity for Europe, the
Middle East and Africa before leaving the bank in June 2011,
claimed its Merrill Lynch International subsidiary breached the
terms of his contract, according to documents from his London
lawsuit filed in December.  The $14 million includes a share of profits from two
Merrill Lynch funds and some of the proceeds from deals he
worked on, including the bank’s sale of Foxtons Ltd. loans to
Haymarket Financial LLP in 2010.  Turner’s lawsuit is one of the largest individual bonus
claims filed in London, where Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s
former risk chief, an ex-BlueBay Asset Management salesman and a
 Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  trader fired for drinking have all
sued their former employers in recent months to recoup
compensation.  Bank of America spokeswoman Victoria Garrod declined to
comment. Turner’s lawyer Joanna Blackburn didn’t immediately
respond to a phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  Turner gave up “valuable compensation” including bonuses
and carried interest, or a share of a fund’s profits, from his
former employer Palamon Capital Partners to join Merrill in
2007, he said in court documents.  Foxtons Bonus  Merrill Lynch denied breach of contract, in court documents
setting out its defense. Turner didn’t ask for an interest in
one of the funds until he was put on notice he’d be losing his
job, while the Foxtons bonus was “unprecedented” and was never
finalized, the bank said.  European lawmakers said yesterday they would curb banker
pay by imposing strict limits on the size of bonuses in relation
to salaries. British Prime Minister David Cameron, who has
previously opposed the changes, said he would seek a compromise
ahead of a meeting of EU finance ministers next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  