-- EU Parliament May Avoid More Delays on Carbon, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-03-01T14:45:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/eu-parliament-may-avoid-more-delays-on-carbon-fix-lawmaker-says.html
The European Parliament may avoid
further delays on a carbon-permit glut fix and reach a first-
reading agreement on the plan should its supporters muster a
majority in April, according to a member of the assembly.  The 754-seat Parliament may opt to authorize talks on the
proposal with European Union member states before it formally
adopts a position on the measure, saving time on legislative
procedures, Jo Leinen, a German member of the EU Parliament,
said today by telephone.  “We want a first reading, otherwise if we go for a second
reading it will postpone things by many months,” said Leinen, a
member of the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists
and Democrats in the EU Parliament.  EU carbon allowances slumped more than 90 percent in the
past seven years to an all-time low of 2.81 euros a metric ton
last month as the economic crisis curbed demand for pollution
rights, leading to a record oversupply in the world’s biggest
cap-and-trade market. The EU proposal to temporarily reduce the
glut by delaying auctions of some permits, known as backloading,
has divided lawmakers and industry.  A first-reading process allows a faster EU agreement on
draft legislation by giving the full Parliament one vote on a
negotiated deal. A second reading takes place when a formal
Parliament position is adopted in a first vote that serves as a
basis for negotiating over differences with national governments
before a second vote. This takes more time and requires a bigger
majority for the final decision by the full assembly.  Commission Proposal  EU permits for delivery in December fell 2 percent to 4.80
euros a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange as of 2:33
p.m. in  London .  It is “essential” that discussions about the proposal
drafted by the European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, are
not delayed further, according to the International Emissions
Trading Association. Should members of the plenary support the
draft change to the EU emissions law that would enable
backloading, talks with governments can start “shortly” and an
agreement may be reached “rapidly,” said Sarah Deblock, EU
policy director at IETA in Brussels.  “It is both unlikely and unhelpful to assume that a
second-reading agreement will be reached rather than a first-
reading agreement,” she said.  Carbon-Fix Plan  The Parliament’s environment committee earlier this week
supported a compromise version of the carbon-fix plan while
scrapping a separate vote on the mandate for its chairman,
Matthias Groote, to start talks with EU member states. Such
negotiations with the EU’s Council of Ministers are needed to
reconcile the final wording of the proposal, which requires
support from both the Parliament and governments to be enacted.  The transfer of the draft change to the EU law from the
committee to the plenary session in April triggered speculation
that a first-reading deal, which requires only one parliamentary
vote on the assembly’s final position, was ruled out.  “What we will do in the plenary is we will vote on our
environment committee amendments and postpone the final vote, as
we do sometimes, and we’ll go for negotiations with the
Council,” Leinen said. “It means postponing by two months but
it doesn’t exclude the possibility of first-reading agreement.”  Energy Prices  The Parliament is split on the need to intervene in the
carbon market. A majority of members of the European  People’s
Party  oppose backloading because it undermines predictability
for investors and leads to higher energy prices, threatening the
competitiveness of European business, Eija-Riitta Korhola, the
group’s lead lawmaker on the measure, said this week. EPP is the
biggest group in the EU assembly.  The commission’s rescue plan for the carbon market has also
caused a rift among EU governments, whose qualified-majority
support is needed for backloading to be enacted.  “If the plenary rejects the commission’s proposal, then
negotiations with Council are unlikely, and future reform of the
EU emissions trading system is put into question,” IETA’s
Deblock said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  