-- EU’s Record Carbon Glut Poses Risk for Auctions: Energy Markets
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-03-01T15:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/eu-s-record-carbon-glut-poses-risk-for-auctions-energy-markets.html
Europe ’s carbon prices may sink to a
new low as political wrangling over a plan to cut a record glut
of permits in the world’s biggest cap-and-trade market risks
deterring investors from national auctions.  Germany, Europe’s biggest emitter, sold 5.03 million
permits today via the European Energy Exchange AG with the
lowest bid ratio in four weeks after canceling a Feb. 22
auction, the Leipzig-based bourse said.  Prices may slide more
than 30 percent to below 3 euros ($3.91) a metric ton unless
European Union policy makers can convince traders the surplus
can be fixed, according to Jefferies Group Inc.  Carbon has plunged more than 85 percent in the past five
years as the euro area’s second recession since 2008 cut
industrial demand for permits. Nations from Germany to  Greece 
began this year selling more than 40 percent of their allowances
in auctions instead of giving them away for free. Failed
auctions may push the cost of emitting one ton of carbon dioxide
into the atmosphere even lower as unsold credits in EEX auctions
are held over for the next four sales .  “The problem with failed auctions is it creates a vicious
cycle,”  Matthew Gray , an analyst at Jefferies in London who
correctly forecast in June 2012 that prices would average 7
euros last year, said by e-mail. “Either Brussels sends a
meaningful signal to the market that the fix is on the way, or
prices will fall below 3 euros again.”  Price Fall  European allowances for delivery in December fell to a
record 2.81 euros a ton on Jan. 24 and traded at 4.79 euros at
2:58 p.m. on ICE Futures Europe exchange in London. The contract
exceeded 36 euros in 2008.  Carbon rose as much as 13 percent yesterday after a German
lawmaker said  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s view on the EU
emissions trading system, also known as ETS, “is the same as”
Environment Minister Peter Altmaier’s. He advocates
strengthening of the program and supports a proposal by the
European Commission plan to temporarily cut supplies of new
allowances in the 54 billion-euro market.  The surplus almost doubled to 887 million tons last year,
Bloomberg  New Energy  Finance in London estimated on Feb. 4. That
compares with 1.96 billion tons emitted by the 12,000
installations owned by factories and power plants included in
ETS, according to estimates by New Energy. Preliminary data for
2012 will be published in April.  The commission’s plan, called backloading, involves
withholding 900 million tons of allowances over the next three
years and then distributing them in 2019-2020. The proposal
needs consent by national governments and the European
Parliament.  Climate Protection  Europe is set to auction 819 million allowances this year,
more than 40 percent of all the permits allocated, according to
commission estimates. The share of auctioned permits will
increase in coming years, with some of the revenue going to
 member states  to help fund climate-protection efforts.  “The EEX and their sellers have to decide whether these
auctions should continue while the future of the ETS remains so
uncertain,” said Mark Owen-Lloyd, co-founder of Leap Trading
Ltd., a London-based proprietary investment firm. “This is the
market sending Brussels a little reminder, as they did at 2.80
euros, that this phase is massively oversupplied and the price
without backloading is probably 1 euro.”  Feb. 22 Failure  The German auction today included a portion of the 4.02
million tons the nation failed to sell on Feb. 22. That was the
second failure this year, after bids didn’t meet the secret
reserve level. The ratio of total volume of bids to the number
of permits in today’s sale dropped to 2.18, the lowest since
Jan. 23 and 24 percent less than yesterday’s EU sale. A higher
bid ratio reflects greater demand for permits.  The price was 4.64 euros, according to EEX. The auction
took this week’s EU total emission sales to a record 21.5
million allowances, EEX and ICE Futures data show.  Auctions can be canceled when the clearing price is
“significantly” below the prevailing market rate as bids are
submitted, after accounting for “short-term volatility” in
prices over a “defined period preceding the auction,”
according to  EU rules , which don’t specify the time frame. The
way the reserve price is set is secret and is the seller’s
responsibility, the commission said Feb. 27 in a response to
Bloomberg questions.  ‘Different Methods’  “Different methodologies are possible” for setting the
reference price for German auctions and common sales by other EU
governments, Katrin Berken, a spokeswoman for EEX based in
Leipzig, said in a Feb. 27 e-mail. She declined to comment on
specific rules. Officials at  Germany ’s environment ministry
weren’t available to comment.  Two of Germany’s six auctions this year were the only ones
to fail, while all 24 of the EU’s sales succeeded, as did four
offerings from the U.K.  The debate over backloading has reached “over
proportionate dimensions,” said Tuomas Rautanen, head of
regulatory affairs and consulting at First Climate in Zurich.  “Backloading is fine-tuning and it’s a pity that this
fine-tuning is distracting attention from the much more
important and fundamental discussion about the 2030 target-
setting, which has already started within the commission,” he
said by e-mail.  Fast-Track  The parliament, which is debating the backloading measure,
decided on Feb. 25 to scrap a fast-track approval procedure.
Prices slid the most in a month, or 12 percent, that day.
Lawmakers are next scheduled to vote on the proposal at a
plenary meeting on April 15.  Failed auctions are “another clear message” that
lawmakers need to take action to strengthen the ETS, according
to Isaac Valero-Ladron, a climate spokesman for the commission
in Brussels.  “There are too many allowances in the system,” he said
Feb. 27 by e-mail. “The market seems not to be able to digest
this big surplus. The ball is now in the European Parliament’s
court to approve our backloading proposal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandro Vitelli in  London  at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  