-- Eurotunnel’s Ferry Strategy at Risk as Rivals Cry Foul
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2013-03-01T14:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/eurotunnel-heads-back-to-future-with-ferry-acquisition.html
Channel Tunnel operator  Groupe
Eurotunnel SA (GET) ’s plan to boost cargo revenue by running ferries
alongside the 30-mile subsea rail route risks unraveling amid
opposition from antitrust regulators and shipping companies.  Eurotunnel must decide next week whether to bid for the
French ports of Calais and Boulogne to complement its ferry
unit. Creating that business has been hampered by opposition
from the U.K. Competition Commission, while Britain’s  P&O
Ferries  says the harbor purchase would hurt competition in one
of the world’s busiest cross-border freight markets.  Eurotunnel spent 65 million euros ($82 million) in 2012
buying three roll-on roll-off ferries from state railway SNCF’s
defunct SeaFrance arm in a bid to lift its 43 percent share of
the 3.36 million trucks that cross between Britain and France at
their closest point each year. The takeover of the French ports,
mooted last month, would lay foundations for a wider business
tapping all forms of surface transport across the Channel.  “If this were to develop into a full bid to operate the
ports I’d imagine Eurotunnel would not have many friends at the
Competition Commission, given what they had to say about the
ferry business, because it does bring up some issues,” said
Andrew Jones, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in  London  who
rates the stock “outperform.”  Five-Decade Deal  The Nord Pas-de-Calais Regional Council, which is
auctioning a 50-year concession to run the harbors, located 20
miles apart on the Dover Strait, wants binding bids by March 9.
It didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment today.  P&O wrote to Britain’s  Office of Fair Trading  on Jan. 8,
saying a sale to Eurotunnel would result in a “substantial
lessening of competition” by giving the tunnel owner control of
two of the three French ports serving the so-called short-sea
market with the U.K., leaving Dunkirk as the sole independent.  Eurotunnel Chief Executive Officer Jacques Gounon said last
week he’d contest the U.K.  Competition Commission ’s findings
regarding the June purchase of SeaFrance vessels Berlioz, Rodin
and Nord-Pas-de-Calais, which operate under the MyFerryLink
brand. The deal was approval by French regulators last year.  A shipping arm would complement Eurotunnel’s rail shuttle,
with trucks using ferries in the event of the tunnel being
restricted, and vice versa, Gounon said when he bought the
ships. That would avoid diverting customers to companies such as
P&O, which controls 35 percent of the Dover-Calais market.  Bigger Trucks  MyFerryLink aims to win 9 percent of cross-Channel truck
and car traffic, Gounon has said, allowing Eurotunnel to tap a
trend toward “mega trucks” that are becoming too large for its
trains. That’s after the company boosted truck numbers 16
percent last year to a record 1.46 million.  The  Commission  said Feb. 19 in preliminary findings that
Eurotunnel had bought the ships to stop Danish ferry operator
 DFDS A/S  securing them at a knock-down rate. The purchase will
significantly increase the company’s “already high” share of
the cross-Channel market and allow it to hike prices, it said.  Alasdair Smith, who led the inquiry, said excess capacity
on the Dover-Calais route will most likely force one operator to
exit. Customers would be better served by the retention of P&O
and DFDS, which began services in a venture with Louis Dreyfus
Armateurs after failing to buy the SeaFrance assets, rather than
a company linked with the  Channel Tunnel , he said.  Disposal Sought  The Commission, which proposed as a possible  remedy  only
the full divestiture of MyFerryLink, saying price caps and
firewalls won’t work, will publish a full report on April 14.
The unit employs 500 people in  France  and about 100 in  England .  “The acquisition of the ex-SeaFrance ships, nine months
after that company ceased all operations, and the creation of a
new competitor in the cross-Channel marketplace, constitutes an
increase in competition and brings additional choice for
customers,” Eurotunnel said last week, adding that ferry
companies were using regulators to protect their own interests.  RBC’s Jones suggested Gounon’s main aim in bidding for the
SeaFrance ships was to establish a fair market value for them
and reduce the risk of a new entrant penetrating the market at a
cost low enough to price aggressively and still make a return.  The analyst said he would not have been overly disappointed
had Eurotunnel then parked the ships or exported them instead of
actually operating them.  The unit of  Dubai World (DPW) , which offers 23 90-minute return
sailings a day between Dover and Calais with six vessels, said
the best outcome would be for Calais and Boulogne to remain in
the hands of the other likely bidder -- and incumbent concession
holder -- the Côte d’Opale Chamber of Commerce. P&O also opposed
Eurotunnel’s takeover of SeaFrance.  Port Player  John Keefe, a Eurotunnel spokesman, said this week that the
company is already a diversified infrastructure operator and
should be viewed as such as it seeks to expand its business. He
declined to say if a decision had been reached on a ports bid.  Eurotunnel runs port assets via its Europorte rail-freight
arm, which has contracts to manage, operate and maintain track
to docks in cities including Paris, Bordeaux, Strasbourg, Nantes
Saint-Nazaire, La Rochelle, Dunkirk and  Le Havre . The unit was
the company’s fastest-growing in 2012, lifting sales 28 percent.  Jean-Baptiste Roussille, an analyst at  Societe Generale (GLE)  in
Paris with a “buy” rating on Eurotunnel, said that while
adding ports might make sense, he’d prefer to see growth in  cash
flow  from the Channel Tunnel before any investment.  CEO Gounon also bought GB Railfreight in 2010 to help boost
cargo-train flows that had dropped by two-thirds since a 1998
peak, while reducing reliance on business from train operators
such as SNCF. The tonnage moved through the tunnel on dedicated
freight services fell 7 percent last year and train numbers slid
3 percent to 2,325, the company said Jan. 23.  Eurotunnel is also working with EuroCarex, which groups
French, Belgian and Dutch airports, on a project to run mail
trains through the tunnel at night.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  