-- European Stocks Little Changed This Week; Thales Gains
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-03-02T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/european-stocks-little-changed-this-week-thales-gains.html
European stocks  were little changed
this week as  Italy ’s inconclusive elections sparked concern the
euro-area debt crisis will worsen, offsetting U.S. economic data
that beat forecasts.  Thales SA (HO)  jumped 12 percent after posting better-than-
estimated earnings and boosting its dividend. Mediobanca SpA and
Intesa Sanpaolo led a drop in Italian shares. Royal Imtech NV
plunged 12 percent after writing down assets and saying it will
use the proceeds of a share sale to cut debt.  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  tumbled 9 percent after reporting a wider
loss than analysts had estimated.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 0.2 percent to
289.02 this week. The measure has gained 3.3 percent so far this
year, also completing its ninth monthly increase, as U.S.
lawmakers agreed on a compromise budget.  “Italian election result in one word: fiasco,” said
Oliver Wallin, who helps oversee $4.4 billion as investment
director at Octopus Investments Ltd. in London. “The
politicians still have the potential to create problems. Having
gotten ahead of themselves in the last two months, equity
markets are still looking a little frothy, but the backdrop
remains favorable for equities and risk assets generally.”  National benchmark indexes fell in 11 of the 18 western
European markets this week. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 rose 0.7
percent,  France ’s CAC 40 slipped 0.2 percent and  Germany ’s  DAX
Index (DAX)  climbed 0.6 percent.  Italian Deadlock  Election results in  Rome  on Feb. 25 showed pre-election
favorite Pier Luigi Bersani won the lower house by less than
half a point. Former premier Silvio Berlusconi, who has vowed to
reverse austerity measures, won a blocking majority in the
Senate. An Italian government needs a majority in both houses.  The result may lead President Giorgio Napolitano to install
an interim government to write a new election law as the prelude
to another vote. Still, Italy sold 6.5 billion euros of debt at
an auction on Feb. 27, meeting its maximum target.  In the U.S.,  orders  for non-transport durable goods climbed
in January by the most in 13 months, a Commerce Department
report on Feb. 27 showed. Bookings climbed 1.9 percent,
exceeding the 0.2 percent median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  The Institute for Supply Management’s factory index rose
more in February than analysts had estimated, a release on March
1 showed.  Sequester Deadline  Faced with automatic federal spending cuts from March 1,
U.S. Democrats and Republicans disagreed over how to replace the
reductions totaling $1.2 trillion over nine years, $85 billion
of which would occur in the remaining seven months of this
fiscal year.  The European Central Bank won’t tighten monetary policy any
time soon, President Mario Draghi indicated. While the ECB’s
balance sheet may shrink as confidence returns to financial
markets and banks repay emergency loans, policy makers are far
from considering an exit from stimulus, Draghi said at an event
in Munich Feb. 27.  The same day, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
discussed the possibility of altering the central bank’s exit
strategy by delaying asset sales. The Fed can hold bonds on its
$3.1 trillion balance sheet until maturity, he said in response
to questions from members of the House Financial Services
Committee in  Washington .  China , U.K.  In China, the country’s official purchasing managers’ index
fell to 50.1 in February from 50.4 a month earlier, the National
Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said. That compared with the 50.5 median estimate in
a Bloomberg News survey.  In the U.K.,  manufacturing PMI  dropped to 47.9 in February,
from a revised 50.5 a month earlier, Markit Economics and the
Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply said.  Thales SA surged 12 percent after saying it will pay a
dividend of 88 euro cents a share this year, a 13 percent
increase from a year earlier. The French defense-electronics
company  reported  full-year adjusted earnings of 2.89 euros a
share, beating the average analyst estimate of 2.67 euros.  Bwin.Party Digital Entertainment Plc jumped 9.8 percent and
888 Holdings Plc gained 7.1 percent. The British betting
companies rallied as New Jersey Governor Chris Christie signed
legislation on Feb. 27 authorizing online gambling in his state,
in a bid to boost revenue at Atlantic City casinos.  Italy’s  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB)  dropped 3.4 percent this week, the
worst performing of the 24 developed markets tracked by
Bloomberg. Mediobanca tumbled 14 percent and Intesa Sanpaolo
slipped 7.7 percent. Telecom Italia SpA, the country’s biggest
phone company, slid 7.8 percent.  Royal Imtech dropped 12 percent after saying it will use
proceeds from a 500 million-euro rights offer to reduce debt.
The Dutch provider of stadium infrastructure for the 2012 London
Olympics also wrote down about 300 million euros on Polish and
German projects.  RBS retreated 9 percent as Britain’s largest taxpayer-owned
lender  said  2012 loss swelled to 5.97 billion pounds from 2
billion pounds a year earlier. That was wider than the average
analyst projection calling for a loss of 5.1 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  