-- Euro-Area Unemployment Climbs to Record on Recession
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2013-03-01T12:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/euro-area-inflation-slowed-more-than-estimated-in-february-1-.html
The euro-area inflation rate fell
below the European Central Bank’s 2 percent ceiling for the
 first time in more than two years  and unemployment climbed to a
record as the currency bloc remained mired in recession  Annual  inflation  slowed to 1.8 percent in February from 2
percent a month earlier, the European Union’s  statistics office 
in Luxembourg said today. That’s below the 1.9 percent median of
35 economists’ estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey .
Unemployment rose to a record 11.9 percent in January.  “Inflation is diverging more and more from the ECB’s
target and the balance of risks is shifting to the downside,”
Christophe Duval-Kieffer, BNP Paribas SA’s London-based global
head of inflation strategy, said by telephone. “Inflation being
the needle in the ECB’s compass, these numbers increase the
likelihood of a rate cut in the near term and we can certainly
expect President  Mario Draghi  to take a more dovish stance.”  The ECB will maintain its benchmark  interest rate  at 0.75
percent next week, according to the median of 43 economists’
estimates in a  separate Bloomberg survey . The ECB will update
its economic forecasts after concerns about political
instability in  Italy  roiled markets. In December, the ECB saw
inflation at 1.6 percent this year and 1.4 percent in 2014.  Worst Performance  The euro-area economy recorded its worst performance in
four years in the fourth quarter with a contraction of 0.6
percent. Gross domestic product will decline again in the first
three months before returning to growth in the second quarter,
according to the median of 21 economists’ estimates in another
Bloomberg survey.  The 17-nation euro slid against all but one of its 16 major
peers in February, losing 3.8 percent against the greenback and
3 percent against the yen. Draghi said the ECB is far from
exiting stimulus measures. Cooling inflation may open the door
for more monetary easing.  Today’s data “suggest that the  euro zone  is going to
remain a very weak spot on the global stage,” said  Julian Callow , chief international economist at Barclays Plc in  London .
“What the ECB should do if it really is concerned about this is
undertake really radical measures, such as buying  government
bonds  and cutting rates. But I don’t expect that.”  While a deposit rate cut is also unlikely, the probability
of a refinancing rate reduction has risen after the inconclusive
election outcome in Italy, Credit Suisse Group AG strategists
led by Helen Haworth wrote in a note this week.  Youth Unemployment  Unemployment in the 17-nation euro area rose from a revised
11.8 percent in December, Eurostat said today. The European
Commission forecasts unemployment rates of 12.2 percent and 12.1
percent for this year and next.  Today’s report showed that 18.998 million people were
unemployed in the euro area in January, up 201,000 from the
previous month. The data also showed that youth unemployment is
at 24.2 percent, with Spain’s rate more than double that, at
55.5 percent.  “The situation is very serious,” said  Alexander Krueger ,
chief economist at Bankhaus Lampe KG in Dusseldorf. “There’s no
support any more from  Germany . It’s more or less a sideways
movement which I expect to continue. Other economies like Italy,
Spain and Portugal are very bad at the moment, so in the end the
 unemployment rate  can only climb.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  