-- Evans Says Fed Must Sustain Stimulus Amid Fragile Rebound
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-03-01T01:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/evans-says-fed-must-sustain-stimulus-amid-fragile-rebound.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago
President Charles Evans said the Fed must avoid stifling the
U.S. economic expansion by halting record stimulus too soon.  “We need to be careful not to undermine our own policies
and remove  accommodation  prematurely, as the Japanese did,”
Evans said today in the text of remarks prepared for a speech in
Des Moines,  Iowa . “Mindful of this danger, we must guard
against complacency and not deviate in our approach.”  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke this week signaled the Fed is
prepared to keep buying $85 billion in bonds per month while
dismissing concerns record accommodation risks speeding up
inflation or creating asset price bubbles. Several participants
at a Jan. 29-30 gathering of the Federal Open Market Committee
said the Fed should be ready to vary the pace of purchases as
the economic outlook changes, according to meeting minutes.  “There remain plenty of headwinds and downside risks that
can impede our progress,” said Evans, 55, who votes on monetary
policy this year.  The economy will probably grow between 2.5 and 3 percent
this year and between 3.5 percent and 4 percent in 2014,
bringing down the  unemployment rate  “close or maybe even a
little below” 7 percent by the end of next year, he said. Risks
to growth include government budget cuts and an unresolved debt
crisis in  Europe , he said.  “I am optimistic that we have appropriate policies in
place to help the economy achieve escape velocity by 2014,” he
said.  The Fed reiterated in January it will keep its benchmark
interest rate near zero as long as the unemployment rate is
above 6.5 percent and inflation is projected to be no more than
2.5 percent. Evans said today he expects the jobless rate to
fall to that level in mid-2015.  Stimulus Costs  A number of Fed officials at last month’s meeting said the
costs of stimulus may warrant reducing or ending the bond-buying
program before the  labor market  substantially improves,
according to FOMC minutes. “Several others” noted the risks of
pulling back the stimulus too soon, the record said.  Bernanke in congressional testimony yesterday defended the
stimulus, citing rising demand for autos and a strengthening
housing market.  “We do not see the potential costs of the increased risk-
taking in some financial markets as outweighing the benefits of
promoting a stronger economic recovery and more-rapid job
creation,” he said.  Evans said he sees few signs of any “froth” in financial
markets that may destabilize the economy, adding that the Fed is
watching for any threats to stability.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.1 percent to
1,514.68 in New York, while the yield on the U.S. 10-year
Treasury note fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
points, to 1.88 percent. The stock index is up 6.2 percent this
year.  Evans has been among the most vocal proponents of stimulus
within the Fed, having dissented twice in favor of more
accommodation in 2011. He was the first FOMC participant to
propose that the Fed link its  zero-rate  policy to economic
indicators, a suggestion that was adopted by the FOMC in
December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  