-- Ex-Halcyon Executive to Open European Distressed Debt Fund
-- B y   C h r i s   L a r s o n
-- 2013-03-01T13:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/ex-halcyon-executive-oei-to-open-european-distressed-debt-fund.html
A former managing principal at
 Halcyon Asset Management LLC  expects to begin trading a new
distressed debt fund next month as investors in  Europe  and the
U.S. look to take advantage of mispriced European securities.  Eyck Capital Management LLP , based in  London , intends to
start its first fund, Eyck European Tactical Distressed
Opportunities, on April 1, founder and managing partner Khing Oei said in an interview, targeting returns of 12 percent to 15
percent a year.  “I think the opportunities for the next five years will be
massive in our space,” he said.  The average distressed hedge fund climbed 10.1 percent in
2012 and 2.3 percent in January, according to data from Chicago-
based Hedge Fund Research Inc. Another London-based hedge fund
manager, Warwick Capital Partners LLP, started a European
distressed debt fund with $200 million from a single European
institutional investor in October. Oei said that in the
“European-dedicated distressed space, there are not that many
players,” estimating there are fewer than 10 similar funds.  Oei, 37, said the “sweet spot” for his fund’s assets
under management will be $500 million to $1 billion, and Eyck
won’t accept any investments once it reaches $1 billion.  Oei was a London-based managing principal at Halcyon, the
$10 billion multi-strategy hedge fund manager, from 2006 until
2011. He previously worked at New York-based  Fortress Investment
Group LLC (FIG)  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Special Situations  The new fund will take both long and short positions in
bonds, convertible bonds, equities and bank loans from across
Europe. Eyck’s early focus will be on stressed debt such as
bonds whose prices have been depressed due to events such as
missed earnings or a ratings downgrade, and so-called special
situations, which often include companies involved in mergers,
acquisitions or bankruptcy.  Oei said he expects the fund to invest in more distressed
debt -- securities issued by companies that are near a
restructuring or default -- as such situations arise and market
conditions change.  The fund will “play the liquid end of the distressed
spectrum,” he said, meaning any security Eyck buys “has to be
able to be sold within three months.”  Commitments have come from a fund of  hedge funds , family
offices and a university endowment, with a “good mix” of money
from Europe and the U.S., Oei said. Oei and other Eyck
executives, some current and former Halcyon executives have also
invested, he said. Eyck isn’t taking  seed capital .  Eyck, which means “oak” in old Dutch, remains “pretty
negative” on the European economy, Oei said. That should create
opportunities for Eyck and other distressed debt investors, on
both the long and short sides. “Ultimately, what drives a whole
distressed cycle is lack of growth,” he said.  Eyck Capital has eight employees, including five investment
professionals. Two are, like Oei, former Halcyon employees: head
of research Luca Moro and senior research analyst Jochem Floor.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Larson in London at 
 clarson22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  