-- Ex-Jenkens & Gilchrist Lawyer Gets 8 Years in Tax Case
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-03-02T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/ex-lawyer-donna-guerin-gets-8-year-sentence-in-tax-shelter-case.html
Former Jenkens & Gilchrist lawyer
Donna Guerin was sentenced to eight years in prison and ordered
to pay $190 million for her role in what the U.S. called the
largest criminal tax fraud in history.  Guerin, 52, pleaded guilty in September 2012 just as she
was set to be retried with three other defendants for running a
10-year scheme that created $7 billion in fraudulent  tax
deductions , more than $1.5 billion in phony losses and $92
million in actual losses to the  U.S. Treasury .  U.S. District Judge William Pauley in New York, who
presided over the case, said that as both a lawyer and a
certified public accountant, Guerin had violated her oaths to
uphold the law by helping her clients avoid paying their taxes
through shelters.  “It’s the modern-day equivalent of Hawthorne’s story of
Midas,” Pauley said yesterday. “Everything she touched turned
to gold with tragic consequences. Her fall has been Faustian.”
Guerin was “the embodiment of the American dream, but then her
lust for money turned her dream into a nightmare,” he said.  Pauley ordered Guerin to report to prison on May 14. The
judge also directed her to pay $200,000 before she surrenders to
U.S. prison authorities and said she must turn over 20 percent
of her gross income after she’s released from prison. Guerin and
her lawyer declined to comment after the hearing.  ‘Breathtaking’ Conspiracy  “When an attorney violates her oath to uphold the law, she
undermines our entire system of justice,” Pauley said. “This
tax shelter fraud conspiracy was breathtaking in its scope and
in the damage it caused our nation.”  Mark Rotert, Guerin’s lawyer, argued that his client’s
culpability in the conspiracy was “relatively minor” and said
she had merely followed others at her firm who were willing to
“push the envelope” on an aggressive tax shelter strategy.  Her lawyers had sought something shorter than the 10-year
term calculated by U.S. probation officials and said their
client was merely a “junior” law partner when it came to
implementing the tax shelters.  Pauley rejected his argument, saying Guerin hadn’t been
satisfied earning hundreds of thousands of dollars as a partner
and instead had earned millions that were generated through the
tax-shelter scheme. Pauley said Guerin had been a “leader” and
had even instructed young associates at her now-defunct  law firm 
how to conduct a “hide the ball tax strategy.”  ‘Willing Tools’  “Lawyers and accountants became willing tools for their
ultra-wealthy clients to avoid their fair share of taxes. These
professionals violated their oaths to line their pockets. Ms.
Guerin played a central role, she was not a mindless
automaton,” the judge said. “She became a criminal for two
reasons: the lure of the money and because she believed that she
was never going to be brought to justice.”  Guerin told the judge said her crimes had caused her to
abandon efforts to adopt a child. She said she regretted relying
on her superiors and not asking more questions or challenging
the  tax-fraud  scheme.  “I am here as a defeated person,” she said. “I never
wanted to be a famous attorney, nor an infamous one.”  Guerin was initially convicted by a federal jury in
 Manhattan  in May 2011 with her three co-defendants. Those
convictions were overturned after Pauley found that a juror had
lied about her past, including that she was an alcoholic and a
suspended attorney.  ‘Significant’ Term  Assistant U.S. Attorneys Stanley Okula and Nanette Davis
said in court papers that Guerin deserved a “significant”
prison term of at least 10 years.  “This was a species or a subset of activity that was so
flagrant and knowingly wrong, any first-year law student would
know was wrong,” Okula told Pauley yesterday. He argued that
Guerin had given tutorials to young associates at the firm,
teaching them how to evade taxes.  Okula disputed Rotert’s claim that Guerin’s co-defendants
had merely followed others at the firm.  “This was a truly unprecedented fraud scheme, which
generated $7.3 billion in fraudulent tax losses,” Okula said.
“The IRS is out more than $200 million. The mammoth losses were
as a result of sustained activity for years and years.”  Okula told the judge, “She didn’t just ‘edge over the
line,’ as Mr. Rotert suggests. It’s Accounting 101.”  10 Years  Guerin pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy and one
count of  tax evasion . She had faced a maximum of 10 years in
prison on both counts and agreed to pay $1.6 million in
penalties. She made the payment yesterday, her lawyer told the
judge.  During her guilty plea Guerin said she worked on tax
shelters with Paul Daugerdas, also a defendant in the case,
while the two were lawyers at former Chicago-based firm
Altheimer & Gray. The two joined Dallas-based Jenkens &
Gilchrist in 1998, she said, and continued their work in helping
clients shelter income.  Guerin admitted she advised clients on how to conduct
complex transactions that allowed them to wipe out financial
gains. Guerin said she also provided opinion letters to her
clients helping them assert that the deals were legitimate.  Pauley yesterday said Guerin earned $11.5 million in 2000
and closely questioned Rotert on what happened to the money
she’d earned, after the lawyer said his client had “a negative
net worth of $122,000.”  Jewelry, Art  The lawyer said Guerin sold her jewelry and emeralds for
$65,000, as well as a large home, and has lived in a “modest”
four-bedroom home in Scottsdale,  Arizona . Rotert said Guerin
spent money on her defense, fertility treatments, an art
collection and home improvements. Guerin was unable to sell any
of the art collection, he said.  Pauley rejected Rotert’s argument that Guerin couldn’t pay
restitution. He said prosecutors had issued a grand jury
subpoena upon Guerin’s husband to determine whether the funds
had been funneled to a trust she established in his name. The
judge said he reviewed evidence showing that Guerin’s husband
transferred millions of dollars into the trust from the couple’s
joint bank account in 2004.  “I get paid to be skeptical, that’s the nature of the job
is to be skeptical,” Pauley told the defense lawyer. “So when
I am presented with a case that involves extraordinary fraud,
I’m extremely skeptical.”  Guilty Verdicts  A jury returned guilty verdicts on May 24, 2011, against
Guerin and Daugerdas; Denis Field, the former chief executive
officer at accounting firm BDO Seidman LLP; and David Parse, who
worked for  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  unit Alex. Brown. Craig Brubaker, a
second former Alex. Brown accountant, was found not guilty.  Pauley dismissed the convictions of Guerin, Daugerdas and
Field after finding that a juror, Catherine Conrad, Juror No. 1
in the trial, had lied repeatedly about her background in an
effort to make herself “more marketable” as a juror.  Guerin’s co-defendants have filed motions of acquittal or
in the alternative, have asked for separate trials. Those
requests are pending.  The restitution that Guerin must pay is more than the $123
million Ernst & Young LLP will pay to settle a U.S. tax-fraud
probe as part of a non-prosecution agreement. The accounting
firm “admitted wrongful conduct” by its partners and employees
in connection with four tax shelters, from 1999 to 2004,
according to yesterday’s statement. About 200 Ernst & Young
clients used the shelters to try to avoid more than $2 billion
in taxes, Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s office said in
a statement.  The case is U.S. v. Daugerdas, 09-cr-00581, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in federal court in Manhattan at
   pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  