-- Ex-Massachusetts Treasurer Won’t Be Re-Tried for Fraud
-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-03-01T21:28:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/ex-massachusetts-treasurer-won-t-be-re-tried-for-fraud.html
Ex- Massachusetts  Treasurer Timothy Cahill, whose trial on charges of fraud ended in December when
the jury failed to reach a unanimous verdict, won’t be re-tried.  Cahill, 54, was indicted in April 2012 for planning to use
$1.5 million of state lottery advertising funds to promote his
unsuccessful run for governor in 2010. A state attorney said at
a court hearing in  Boston  today that it won’t seek another trial
and that Cahill will pay a $100,000 fine.  “We have jointly filed a disposition agreement that will
resolve the prosecution of the Cahill case with a civil
disposition, a civil acknowledgment of an ethics violation,”
 James O’Brien , a Massachusetts assistant attorney general, told
the judge.  The jury of seven women and five men, after about a week of
deliberations, told Suffolk Superior Judge Christine Roach on
Dec. 12 that they were deadlocked. Roach accepted the agreement
today.  “I find this proposed agreement to be balanced, reasonable
and very much reflective of the trial we had in this
courtroom,” Roach said. “I find the proposal to be in the
interest of justice.”  Unwarranted Privileges  Cahill, as state treasurer, gave the go-ahead to use 75
percent of the lottery’s advertising budget for TV and radio ads
that promoted his flagging campaign, Massachusetts Attorney
General  Martha Coakley  said last year. He was charged with two
counts of conspiracy and one count each of procurement fraud and
using his office for unwarranted privileges. He faced as long as
five years in prison if convicted.  “The fact there will be no criminal admission is something
both sides worked on and worked out,” Brad Bailey, one of
Cahill’s lawyers, told the judge. “We have talked to the ethics
commission as well. The fact that they are involved too saves
this court and other bodies great resources and shows a meeting
of the minds of what we feel to be a fair settlement.”  Cahill will be on probation for 18 months to four years,
under the terms of the agreement. He must make a payment of
$25,000 a year. If he pays off the entire fine in 18 months, the
probation will end.  ‘Well-Managed’  Documents showed there was coordination between Cahill’s
independent campaign for governor and the lottery, Coakley said.
Although the ads didn’t name Cahill, they said that the lottery
was “consistently well-managed.” His effectiveness in managing
the lottery and allocating ticket revenue to municipalities was
one of his key campaign points, she said.  In closing arguments Dec. 4, Cahill’s lawyer Jeffrey Denner
said the ads were aired to defend the lottery against political
advertising placed by the  Republican Governors Association  that
maligned its management. He said the RGA launched the ads out of
fear that its candidate, Charlie Baker, was falling behind
Cahill with voters.  Cahill lost the race to incumbent Democrat  Deval Patrick .  The jury acquitted  Scott Campbell , Cahill’s former campaign
manager, of charges of conspiracy and procurement fraud.  Alfred Grazioso, the former chief of staff of the lottery,
is awaiting trial on charges of obstructing justice during the
attorney general’s probe.  This was the first time criminal charges were brought under
state ethics laws that were made tougher in 2009.  The case is Commonwealth v. Cahill, SUCR2012-10348, Suffolk
County, Massachusetts, Superior Court (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
Janelle Lawrence in Boston at  jmlawrence@me.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 