-- Execution Broadcast to Show China Won’t Be Bullied
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-03-01T18:20:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/execution-broadcast-to-show-china-won-t-be-bullied.html
This morning in  China , the state-owned television network had  an unusual announcement : At 1:30
p.m. it would air a two-hour special culminating in the
televised execution of  four Burmese drug runners  convicted of
murdering 13 Chinese sailors in 2011.  This sort of spectacle is not without precedent in Chinese
history. During the imperial era, emperors held leisurely
executions at court. During the Cultural Revolution, the Red
Guards held them wherever was convenient. In both cases, the
purpose was clear: impress upon the Chinese audience the
consequences of defying the state and the Communist Party.  Yet today’s spectacle, focused on the public killing of
foreigners, was something quite different: an execution designed
to reassure a restive Chinese public that its leaders are not
soft.  It’s a critical message. Over the last two years the
Chinese government has found itself embroiled in increasingly
dangerous sovereignty disputes with its  Southeast Asian  and
 Japanese neighbors . So far, diplomacy has been the preferred
course of action. Yet on China’s decidedly nationalistic and
highly influential microblogging platforms, diplomacy --
especially on sovereignty issues -- is unpopular and  viewed as a
sign of weakness .  In response, the Chinese government and its official media
tribunals have carefully ratcheted up the aggressive rhetoric,
especially toward  Japan , since the fall of 2012, reminding
Chinese that they will not be bullied by outside forces. Rather,
if there will be any bullying, China will be doing it.  Today’s two-hour execution special was a much more graphic
extension of this overall strategy -- and one with a willing
audience. On Sina Weibo, China’s leading social networking
platform, it was not hard to find microbloggers repeating
variations of “ China will not be bullied ” as the four condemned
Burmese were paraded before the cameras, their faces pale and
frightened. That said, a large number of viewers also found the
 whole spectacle tasteless .  Nationalistic Chinese may have been the primary audience
for this programming, but they were not the only viewers.
Tellingly, the show was simulcast on CCTV-9, the state-run
network’s English-language channel carried both in China and on
cable systems around the world, with English-language commentary
over the Chinese. Whether or not anyone in the English-speaking
world was actually listening matters less than the simple fact
that Chinese broadcasters felt compelled (or were compelled) to
share images of foreigners being executed.  In the end, there was no payoff. Shortly before 3:30 p.m.,
and the scheduled execution, somebody at CCTV either lost nerve
or developed some sudden taste, and the broadcast cut to a
talking head announcing that the executions had taken place
(much to the disappointment of many microbloggers).  And so, there is no footage of the poison overtaking the
foreign killers: just a  press release  and a message clearly
sent.  (Adam Minter is the Shanghai correspondent for the World
View blog and a contributor to the Ticker.)
 