-- Mexico’s Peso Posts Weekly Drop as U.S. Damps Export Outlook
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-03-01T22:35:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/mexico-peso-set-for-biggest-weekly-drop-since-december-on-u-s-.html
Mexico ’s peso posted its second
consecutive weekly drop as $85 billion of spending cuts were set
to be triggered in the U.S., the Latin American nation’s biggest
export market.  The currency fell 0.4 percent this week. It increased 0.2
percent at 12.7584 per dollar at 4 p.m. in Mexico City today
after dropping as much as 0.7 percent in intraday trading. The
peso has rallied 0.7 percent in 2013.  Democrats and Republicans in the U.S. are wrangling over
how to to replace the cuts worth $1.2 trillion over nine years,
including $85 billion that would occur this fiscal year. Mexico
sends about 80 percent of its exports to the U.S.  “If this isn’t resolved quickly we’re going to see prices
very close to 13” pesos per dollar, Roberto Galvan, a currency
trader at Intercam Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City, said in a
telephone interview today. “We’re watching this closely.”  In a speech today at the White House, President  Barack Obama  called on Congress to halt the “slow grind” on the
economy caused by the automatic spending cuts. Obama is
scheduled to order federal departments and agencies today to
begin cutting their budgets.  House Speaker  John Boehner , a Republican, said the U.S.’s
lower chamber will vote next week on legislation to fund the
government for the rest of the fiscal year so Congress won’t
have to deal with the risk of a government shutdown while
negotiating on cutting the deficit.  The peso  pared its earlier losses and heading for gains
after a report showed that manufacturing in the U.S. expanded at
a faster pace than forecast in February.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index
advanced to 54.2, from 53.1 in January, the Tempe, Arizona-based
group said today. The figures exceeded the most optimistic
forecast in a Bloomberg survey in which the median projection
was 52.5. A reading greater than 50 signals expansion.  Yields on peso bonds due in 2024 declined three basis
points to 5.08 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The price rose 0.26 centavo to 143.56 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  