-- Facebook to Detail Updates to News Feed at Press Event
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-03-01T21:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/facebook-to-detail-updates-to-news-feed-at-press-event.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  is updating its News
Feed, the main stream of updates from friends, companies and
media sources on the world’s largest social network, as it seeks
more ways to draw revenue from more than 1 billion users.  The company will hold a press event on March 7 at its
headquarters in  Menlo Park , California, according to a press
invitation sent today.  News Feed, which now includes advertising spots, has become
a key part of Facebook’s monetization efforts, including on
handheld devices where users increasingly access the service. In
the fourth quarter,  revenue  from wireless devices made up 23
percent of total ad sales as the number of users on smartphones
and tablets outpaced desktop users. The press event may focus on
mobile devices and include updates to make pictures and other
elements larger,  Greg Sterling , an analyst at Opus Research in
San Francisco, said in an interview.  “They’re going to need to squeeze more money out of
mobile,” Sterling said. “They really want to show they can
deliver on these devices.”  Facebook advanced 1.9 percent to $27.78 at the close in  New
York . The stock has declined 27 percent from its initial public
offering price of $38 in May.  At its last press event, Facebook in January unveiled Graph
Search, designed to make it easier for users to find friends,
restaurants, locations and interests based on their social
connections. Facebook also is developing a smartphone
application that will track the location of users, two people
with knowledge of the matter said last month. The app is
scheduled for release by mid-March, the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  