-- New Jersey Sports Gambling Law Blocked in Win for Leagues
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d ,   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-03-04T12:52:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/federal-judge-rules-against-new-jersey-sports-betting-bid.html
(Corrects spelling of name of NCAA counsel Donald Remy in
13th paragraph of story published March 1.)  A federal judge in  New Jersey  threw
out a law to legalize sports gambling in the state, siding with
groups including the National Collegiate Athletic Association
and the  National Football League  that sued to block the
legislation from taking effect.  The state law, signed by Republican New Jersey Governor
 Chris Christie  in January 2012, permits wagering on professional
and college sports at racetracks and Atlantic City casinos.  The NCAA, NFL,  National Basketball Association ,  National
Hockey League  and  Major League Baseball , along with the U.S.
government, argued that the measure would undermine the
integrity of professional sports, and should be barred under a
1992 federal law requiring states to restrict sports betting.
New Jersey argued that the federal law was unconstitutional.  “After careful consideration, the Court has determined
that Congress acted within its powers and the statute in
question does not violate the United States Constitution,” U.S.
District Judge Michael Shipp said in a ruling yesterday.  New Jersey lawyers argued that the federal law violated the
state’s sovereign rights. The U.S. Professional and Amateur
Sports Protection Act of 1992 bans sports betting in all but
four states:  Nevada ,  Delaware , Montana and  Oregon .  ‘Inequitable’ Ban  “We believe firmly in the principles of our position on
sports betting and that the federal ban is inequitable, violates
New Jersey’s rights as a state and is unconstitutional,”
 Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Even the trial judge has noted that he was not
likely the final arbiter in the matter. We are confident that
the federal court of appeals will conclude that New Jersey
should be treated equally with other states.”  The judge issued an injunction prohibiting New Jersey from
“sponsoring, operating, advertising, promoting, licensing, or
authorizing a lottery, sweepstakes or other betting, gambling,
or wagering scheme” based on amateur or professional
competitive games.  Legalized sports gambling could generate $1 billion in bets
and as much as $100 million in new annual revenue for the state
in its first year, William J. Pascrell III, a lead lobbyist for
the measure, said in an earlier interview.  Super Bowl  “We wanted this in place by the  Super Bowl ,” Pascrell
said today by phone. Pascrell, an attorney who is a partner in
Trenton-based Princeton Public Affairs Group, said he didn’t
expect an appeals court to resolve the matter before the
February 2014 game at MetLife Stadium in  East Rutherford , a 15-
minute drive from  Manhattan .  The sports leagues earlier challenged Delaware’s betting
rights and, in 2009, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Philadelphia
ruled that the state could only offer “parlay” bets on at
least three NFL games, not single games.  As Atlantic City’s dozen casinos have suffered due to
increased competition in neighboring states including
 Pennsylvania , backers of the sports betting plan saw it as a way
to lure new customers and reverse the declines.  Representative Tim Frank of the NBA said in an e-mailed
message that he had no comment. Bernadette Mansur of the NHL and
Pat Courtney of MLB didn’t immediately reply to e-mails seeking
comment on the judge’s ruling.  Greg Aiello , a spokesman for the
NFL, declined to comment.  Right Direction  Donald Remy, chief legal officer for the NCAA, said in an
e-mailed statement that the group is pleased with the ruling.  “The NCAA maintains that the spread of legalized sports
wagering is a threat to the integrity of athletic competition
and student-athlete well-being,” he said. “We hope the
decision in this case is a step in the direction of preventing
that from happening.”  Last October, the NCAA said it would move five
championships from New Jersey because of the state’s bid for
sports gambling.  Senator Ray Lesniak, a Democrat from Elizabeth who
sponsored the referendum legislation, said the injunction delays
Atlantic City’s plans for as long as one year. Lesniak said an
FBI analysis estimated illegal sports betting is a $500 million-
a-year industry.  “Obviously, we’ll take an appeal but that delays any
opportunity to have sports betting for at least a year,”
Lesniak said today in a telephone interview. “Meanwhile, Nevada
and  Las Vegas  will keep raking in those dollars from sports
betting and the tourism that goes with it.”  Boost Fortunes  Lesniak was also a sponsor of legislation signed by
Christie this week that would legalize  Internet gambling  as well
in an attempt to boost Atlantic City’s fortunes. The city is
foundering after six consecutive years of declining gambling
revenue.  The city’s 12 casinos generated $3.05 billion in revenue
last year, down from a peak of $5.2 billion in 2006.  “For Atlantic City to become the type of resort Las Vegas
is we need to have the type of sports betting that Las Vegas
has,” Lesniak said. “Atlantic City will do OK, but it will
always be a shadow of what it could be” without sports
gambling.  He said sports betting in New Jersey would be a
multibillion-dollar industry. People love the excitement of
sports betting, including the social atmosphere and watching
games on television with friends in casino lounges, Lesniak
said.  “I can’t understand how Congress can allow this to
continue,” he said. “I also can’t understand why other states
don’t stand up to fight for this.”  The case is  National Collegiate Athletic Association  v.
Christie, 12-4947, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey
(Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  