-- Feeding Naked Chef’s Chickens Killing Biggest Bond Rally
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2013-03-01T19:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/feeding-naked-chef-s-chickens-killing-biggest-bond-rally.html
Higher costs to feed chickens and
pigs at  Brazil ’s  Marfrig Alimentos SA (MRFG3)  are imperiling the biggest
bond rally among Latin American food companies this year.  Yields on the Sao Paulo-based food maker’s $734 million of
notes due 2018 have edged up 0.12 percentage point since
reaching a 1 1/2-year low of 8.84 percent on Feb. 20. The
securities had returned 17 percent this year before reversing
course, more than double the advance for all comparable bonds
issued by food companies in  Latin America .  Marfrig, which produces ready-to-eat chicken meals in the
U.K. endorsed by celebrity chef Jamie Oliver and  supplies 
hamburger patties to  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , became the most-indebted
meatpacker in the Americas after $3 billion of acquisitions over
the past five years and a $600 million bond sale in January to
pay bank loans. After deducting capital expenses, Marfrig had a
$321 million shortfall from its operations in the first nine
months of last year and faces rising costs for corn and soybeans
used to feed its livestock, meaning its bond advance was
unsustainable, according to BCP Securities LLC.  “Corn and soybeans remain expensive,” Jansen Moura, a
fixed-income analyst at BCP, said in a telephone interview from
 Rio de Janeiro . “The company bought some time by issuing bonds.
The scenario is still challenging.”  An official at Marfrig, who asked not to be identified
because of company policy, declined to comment on the
performance of its bonds.  Global Expansion  Marfrig was  created in 1986  in Brazil as a distributor of
pork, beef, chicken, fish and vegetables, according to its
website. It has since expanded into 15 other countries and sells
products ranging from premium-quality packaged beef cuts to pork
sausages for hot dogs. In 2011 it signed an agreement to start
selling products under the brand of celebrity chef Jamie Oliver,
who is the star of the British Broadcasting Corp. television
show “The Naked Chef” and the ABC network’s “ Jamie Oliver ’s
Food Revolution.”  Marfrig’s  net debt  at the end of the third quarter jumped
to 4.7 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, from 2.84 three years earlier.  That’s higher than the leverage ratio of 4.42 at  JBS SA (JBSS3) ,
the world’s top beef producer, and 3.93 for Minerva SA, Brazil’s
third-largest meatpacker.  Swelling Debt  Marfrig’s debt swelled as  it spent  $1.26 billion to buy
McDonald’s supplier Keystone Food LLC in 2010 and $705 million
for Cargill Inc.’s Seara processed food unit the same year.  The latest debt figures don’t reflect January’s $600
million bond sale or the $508 million that the company raised by
selling stock in December.  The record amounts of soybeans and corn that Brazilian
farmers started harvesting last month have done little to help
cut costs for Marfrig. Soybean futures, which jumped 18 percent
in 2012 after reaching a record $17.835 a bushel in  Chicago  on
Sept. 4, are up 2.4 percent this year. Corn futures rose 8
percent last year and have climbed 0.8 percent this year.  Feedstock accounts for about 73 percent of the company’s
costs of products sold. Marfrig’s expenses for  animal feed 
jumped 22 percent in the third quarter, compressing profit
margins. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization were 8.7 percent in the period, down from 12
percent a year earlier.  ‘Incrementally Improving’  “High feedstock prices will have a lasting effect on their
margins,” Viktoria Krane, a director at  Fitch Ratings , said in
a telephone interview. Fitch rates the company’s dollar debt B+,
four levels below investment grade.  As costs increase to feed livestock, Marfrig won’t be able
to raise prices for the pizzas, sausages and margarine it
produces because of competition from BRF - Brasil Foods SA, the
largest Brazilian food-maker, Krane said. While Marfrig
increased its food making capacity with the acquisition of
several food-processing plants from BRF last year, it is still
fighting to gain significant market share from its rival.  Both the December share sale and November’s appointment of
former Cargill Chief Financial Officer Sergio Rial to head the
Seara unit will help the company improve its financial profile,
according to  Ian McCall , an emerging-markets asset manager at
Quesnell Capital SA.  “Their game plan going forward is to really work at
incrementally improving their margins,” Quesnell, who bought
bonds from Marfrig’s January sale, said in a telephone
interview. “It’s worth being willing to give them a shot.”  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of Treasuries climbed three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 181 basis points at
2:13 p.m. in  New York , according to data from JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  The cost to protect Brazilian bonds against default for
five years rose four basis points to 135 basis points. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a borrower fails
to adhere to its debt agreements.  The real weakened 0.1 percent to 1.9799 per dollar. Yields
on interest-rate futures contracts due in January 2014 fell
eight basis points to 7.61 percent.  Demand for high-yielding debt has been bolstered by
investors’ reactions to the  Federal Reserve ’s so-called
quantitative easing measures, Marco Aurelio de Sa, the head of
fixed-income trading at Credit Agricole SA, said in a telephone
interview from Miami. With the outlook for the world’s largest
economy improving, the Fed may ease the measures, which in turn
could lower demand for high-yield debt such as Marfrig, de Sa
said.  “The bonds from Marfrig probably have reached their
peak,” de Sa said. “Among the Brazilian high yields, they are
among the riskiest in terms of credit and should suffer when the
U.S. phases out its bond-buying program.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Lucia Kassai in  Sao Paulo  at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ; 