-- Fitch Says Croatia EU Entry Benefits Limited Without Reforms
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-03-01T12:56:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/fitch-says-croatia-s-eu-entry-benefits-limited-without-reforms.html
Croatia , the next  European Union 
member, will reap limited benefits from the entry to the world’s
largest trading bloc unless it improves its labor market and
removes obstacles to investments,  Fitch Ratings  said.  “While accession to the EU in July should be positive for
the growth outlook, benefits will be limited in the absence of a
credible medium-term fiscal consolidation program and convincing
movement on the structural reforms agenda,” Michele Napolitano,
director of global sovereigns and supranational at Fitch, said
in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg questions.  Fitch, the only major  credit rating  company that judges
Croatia’s debt at investment level, in November changed its
outlook for Croatia to negative from stable, while maintaining
the lowest investment grade of BBB-.  The Adriatic nation’s economy is in its second recession in
two years after contracting for five consecutive quarters. The
 government  on Feb. 20 reduced its 2013 forecast to a 0.7 percent
growth, from an earlier estimate of 1.8 percent growth, citing
investment drought. The  International Monetary Fund  said Jan. 21
that Croatia’s economy will stagnate this year.  The yield on Croatia’s dollar-denominated bond climbed to
4.921 percent at 1:50 p.m. in Zagreb, the highest since Sept. 6.
The cost of insuring the debt with five-year credit-default
swaps, which rise as perceptions of creditworthiness worsen,
dropped to 287.5 from 292.6.  The country’s credit rating was cut to junk by  Standard &
Poor’s  in December, followed by a similar cut by  Moody’s
Investors Services  in February. Both credit rating companies
cited a stalled recovery, lack of budget discipline and
vulnerability to external shocks as reason for downgrade.  EU Grants  Croatia stands to receive about 10 billion euros ($13
billion) in EU grants through 2020, and the Social-Democrat-led
government of Prime Minister  Zoran Milanovic  wants to attract
investors by channeling these funds into infrastructure and
energy projects.  Milanovic last month announced a 3 percent wage cut for
government employees, after repeated calls by the IMF and the
 World Bank  to reform the bloated public sector in the country of
4.2 million.  “Despite the recent cut in public wages, the government
appears to lack the appetite for bolder structural reforms,
particularly in the labor market,” Napolitano said. “Timely
implementation of structural reforms would support Croatia’s
economy and underpin its credit rating,” he said.  The government forecast in November the  budget deficit  to
widen this year to 3.5 percent of gross domestic product as the
country repays debt and begins contributing to EU coffers. The
IMF said on Feb. 27 the budget gap will widen to 4.25 percent of
GDP in 2013, before widening further to 4.5 percent in the
medium term.  Vulnerability  The government’s fiscal financing needs for this year seem
“manageable,” while public and external debt ratios remain
high and increase the country’s vulnerability to external
shocks, Napolitano said.  Croatia’s public debt is expected to exceed 60 percent of
economic output by late 2014, according to the IMF’s report on
Feb. 27.  “A fundamental advantage of EU accession is access to
structural funds, but in the absence of structural reforms,
Croatia will likely fall amongst the countries that have the
lowest absorption of EU funds,” Abbas Ameli-Renani,  emerging
markets  strategist at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  in
 London , said in an e-mailed response to questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  