-- Florence Mayor Renzi Resists Calls to Fill Italy Leadership Void
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-03-01T12:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/florence-mayor-renzi-resists-calls-to-fill-italy-leadership-void.html
Matteo Renzi,  Italy ’s most popular
politician not to run in this week’s election, resisted calls to
step forward and fill a leadership void after an inconclusive
result brought no clear path to forming a government.  “I said what I wanted for Italy in the primaries,” Renzi,
the mayor of Florence, said on Twitter today, referring to his
failed campaign in December to lead a democratic party-led
coalition of parties. “I lost. Now I’m working as mayor. We
can’t allow ourselves any regret.”  Renzi, 38, was pushed to the sidelines by Pier Luigi Bersani, the ex-communist whose labor-union ties propelled him
to victory three months ago in the primary. Renzi may consider
taking a leadership role if President Giorgio Napolitano asked
him to form a government,  Corriere della Sera , Italy’s best-
selling newspaper, reported today.  The speculation prompted commentary from rival politicians,
while Renzi said in a Facebook posting that he was reading
“incredible interpretations” about him, without specifying
what he was referring to.  “Renzi, whose only credential is being a career politician
with nothing worthwhile to show for it, is now a candidate for
premier,” Beppe Grillo, the ex-comic whose party became the
third largest force in Italy’s lower house of parliament after
the Feb. 24-25 elections, said in a posting on his blog. “But
didn’t he lose the primaries?”  Policy Clash  Renzi was identified by pollster EMG in November as the
most popular candidate among the electorate at large, yet his
policies clashed with those of Bersani, 61. Renzi pushed for a
generational change in Italian politics and stressed budget
rigor, while Bersani said he planned to ease the reforms imposed
by outgoing Prime Minister  Mario Monti .  Bersani, who led in opinion polls throughout the two-month
campaign, failed to gain control of parliament as former Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  and Grillo won blocking minorities in
the Senate. Bersani, in an interview with La Repubblica today,
said he would present himself as a premier candidate and ruled
out a broad coalition with Berlusconi’s forces.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  