-- Ford’s Lincoln Sales Sputter Even After Super Bowl Commercials
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-03-02T05:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/ford-s-lincoln-luxury-sales-sputter-even-after-super-bowl-ads.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Lincoln brand,
which aired two ads during the  Super Bowl  in February, posted a
29 percent U.S. sales slide for the month as dealers continued
to run short of the MKZ sedan featured in the commercials.  Lincoln sold just 945 MKZs, down 62 percent from a year
earlier, as the luxury brand yesterday reported that total
monthly sales fell to 4,883. That was the second-fewest in
almost 32 years, according to researcher Ward’s Auto. Lincoln’s
lineup was outsold by all but four Ford-brand models.  The rollout of the revamped MKZ, which Ford expects to lead
Lincoln’s revival, has been hamstrung by the Mexican-built cars
requiring rigorous quality inspections at a Michigan plant, the
company has said. The MKZ, with an expansive chrome grille
inspired by an eagle’s wings, is the first of four new models
Lincoln has coming over four years as Dearborn, Michigan-based
Ford spends $1 billion to turn the brand around.  “These sales numbers are disturbing, especially since
they’ve been relaunching the brand,” said  Rebecca Lindland , an
automotive consultant with Rebel Three Media & Consultants in
Cos Cob,  Connecticut . “How many people have been turned away
because of no inventory of MKZs?”  Ford said dealers will be fully stocked with MKZ models by
next month. Lincoln began selling the restyled MKZ in January,
with a starting price of $35,925.  April Target  “We have started delivering approximately 100 MKZs per
day, even as we continue running every MKZ through its quality
validation process,”  Ken Czubay , Ford’s U.S. sales chief, told
analysts yesterday on a conference call. “We are targeting
dealers to be at normal MKZ stock positions at the beginning of
April.”  Lincoln’s ads during the Feb. 3 NFL championship game were
part of the third-most-watched TV broadcast in U.S. history,
viewed by more than 108 million people. The ads highlighted the
MKZ’s design, which bears little resemblance to the Ford Fusion
midsize car upon which it’s based. The MKZ also offers a 15-
square-foot (1.4-square-meter) retractable glass roof.  Cadillac,  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s luxury line, is rising as
Lincoln falls. Cadillac’s February sales jumped 20 percent to
13,845 vehicles. The Lincoln MKZ is among the top trade-ins for
the new Cadillac ATS sedan, said  Jim Cain , a GM spokesman.  “The ATS had its strongest sales month since launch and it
was Cadillac’s best-selling car,” Cain said in an e-mail
yesterday. “More than three-quarters of ATS buyers are new to
Cadillac.”  Advertising Push  Lincoln’s sales have fallen 25 percent this year after Ford
initiated an advertising push in December to reintroduce the
“Lincoln Motor Co.” with commercials featuring vintage models
and an actor playing  Abraham Lincoln .  The brand’s February performance followed a January total
of 4,191 that was the lowest since July 1981, when Lincoln had
sales of 3,506 models during a recession, according to
Southfield, Michigan-based Ward’s Auto.  Lincoln’s decline last month also included a 13 percent
drop to 1,883 for the MKX sport-utility vehicle, the brand’s top
seller. Deliveries of the Lincoln Navigator large SUV tumbled 25
percent to 622.  “Is this really an inventory issue or is this a demand
issue?” Lindland said. “They’re going to spin it as an
inventory issue, but they can’t use that reason again. The March
sales have to show numbers in the thousands from all this pent-
up demand that they say will be unleashed.”  ‘Blip Upward’  After Lincoln’s Super Bowl ads, online shopping activity
for the brand increased, said Michelle Krebs, an analyst for
 Santa Monica , California-based auto researcher Edmunds.com.  “We actually saw a tiny blip upward in shopping
consideration, which is an indication of marketing
effectiveness,” Krebs said. “Then they didn’t deliver on the
product.”  Ford was unchanged at $12.60 at the close in  New York 
yesterday. The  shares  have dropped 2.6 percent this year, as the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has gained 6.5 percent.  Ford Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  is trying to
revive Lincoln to get a larger slice of the market for  luxury
vehicles , which produce higher profits. Lincoln’s annual U.S.
sales have fallen 65 percent since peaking in 1990 at 231,660.  Last year, Lincoln sold 82,150 vehicles.  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW was the top-selling luxury-auto brand in the U.S.
in 2012, at 281,460.  Image Issue  Ford is addressing the Lincoln inventory shortfall, while
the bigger issue of the brand’s image remains, said Jesse Toprak, vice president of market intelligence at Santa Monica-
based TrueCar Inc.  Lincoln isn’t held in the same regard as BMW,  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s
Mercedes-Benz or  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Lexus, the top-selling
luxury brands in the U.S., he said.  Aside from Lincoln’s Town Cars, which have served as
airport shuttles for generations of business travelers,
sightings of the brand’s models are pretty rare in Miami, New
York,  San Francisco  and  Los Angeles , the markets where about 40
percent of luxury vehicles are sold in the U.S., Toprak said.
Lincoln no longer makes the Town Car.  “I live in an upper-middle-class L.A. suburb, the
demographic that buys most of the luxury cars in the country,”
Toprak said. “When my neighbors see someone in a Lincoln,
people ask, ‘Why’d you buy that?’ With any German or Japanese
luxury brand, it’s a safe purchase.”  Lincoln’s newer vehicles are the best it has ever made, he
said. “The problem is, in luxury you sell image, not metal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  