-- Forint Strengthens, Yields Fall on Matolcsy Central Bank Pick
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-03-01T15:53:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/forint-gains-after-orban-picks-matolcsy-for-central-bank-chief.html
The forint strengthened and
government bond yields fell after Hungarian Prime Minister
Viktor Orban picked Economy Minister Gyorgy Matolcsy to become
central bank chief.  Hungary’s currency plunged the most among emerging-market
peers in February as media including Nepszabadsag newspaper and
Index, a news website, reported Matolcsy is set to lead the
Magyar Nemzeti Bank through 2019. Orban confirmed the
appointment today on state-run MR1 radio. Monetary Council
members appointed by Orban’s Fidesz party have cut the benchmark
rate to a record 5.25 percent in February.  “Matolcsy’s name had been widely cited in the last few
weeks, so this isn’t much of a surprise to the market,”
Siddharth Kapoor, a London-based strategist at Deutsche Bank AG,
wrote in e-mailed comments. “Ultimately, I think the government
wants to ease policy and at the same time let the forint
deteriorate in a controlled manner.”  The currency appreciated 0.3 percent to 294.44 per euro by
4:15 p.m. in Budapest, after initially depreciating as much as
0.3 percent on Orban’s announcement. Yields on the government’s
10-year bonds fell eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point,
to 6.246 percent.  The appointment of Matolcsy, who in December called for
unconventional monetary policy to help emerge from recession,
was approved by a parliamentary committee today before President
Janos Ader makes a formal appointment.  Rates Policy  Matolcsy, who is due to take over from March 3, said in a
Jan. 30 interview with the Wall Street Journal that the central
bank should pursue a “conservative” policy course. Those
comments helped ease concern that his appointment will hurt
Hungarian assets, Kapoor said.  The central bank will support the government’s efforts to
boost growth if that doesn’t threaten price and financial
stability, Matolcsy said at the parliamentary hearing today.  The bank may choose from methods already used by monetary
authorities including the Bank of  England , the European Central
Bank or peers in eastern  Europe , Matolcsy said.  Markets will remain “volatile and vulnerable” until it
becomes clear which tools Matolcsy chooses,  Zoltan Torok , a
Budapest-based economist at  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) ,
wrote in an e-mailed report.  “Whether to achieve it with market compatible and
successful measures or with futile ones depends on the new
central bank leadership,” Torok said.  Mihaly Varga, minister in charge of negotiations with the
International Monetary Fund, will take over Matolcsy’s role at
the  Economy Ministry , Orban said.  Test Market  While Matolcsy isn’t a market-friendly choice, the
government has already “tested the market” with press leaks,
which helped the forint recover, said Robert Csajbok, a
Budapest-based currency trader at ING Groep NV.  “This scenario tells me there will be volatility but not
clear-cut weakening” in the forint, Csajbok said in e-mailed
comments to Bloomberg.  Outgoing central bank President Andras Simor has opposed
lowering rates, saying that the easing won’t help Hungary emerge
from recession.  Hungary’s  purchasing managers’ index  declined in February,
indicating that the expansion in manufacturing slowed as the
country struggled to recover. The PMI fell to 54 points from
55.9 in January, MLBKT, the company which compiles the data,
said in a report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  