-- French Open Upgrade In Jeopardy Following Paris Ruling
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-03-01T16:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/french-open-upgrade-in-jeopardy-following-paris-ruling.html
Roland Garros ’s proposed expansion
may be in jeopardy after a Parisian administrative tribunal
called for an agreement between the city and the French tennis
federation to be terminated, Agence-France Presse said.  The Paris City Council gave permission for a 273 million
euros ($354 million) upgrade of the existing site, home to the
world’s only clay-court tennis major, in 2011.  The tribunal today ruled that to be illegal because
information given was “insufficient” at the time of voting and
that the fee paid by the French Tennis Federation was too little
given the amount of cash it would make from the upgrade, AFP
said.  The French Tennis Federation will issue a statement later
in the day or tomorrow, a spokeswoman said today when asked to
comment on the situation.  The  French Open  has been played on the red clay courts of
Roland Garros, located on the edge of the  Bois de Boulogne  in
the 16th arrondissement of the French capital, since 1928.  Originally covering eight acres of land with five courts,
Roland Garros now has 20 outside courts spread over 21 acres.
Still, it remains the smallest of the four tennis majors, and
players, press and spectators frequently complain about its lack
of space.  Under the 2011 plans, the expanded site would cover almost
35 acres and include 35 outside courts, a new 5,000-seat stadium
and a new press center. The main Philippe Chatrier court would
be redesigned and feature a retractable roof.  Organizers had been considering alternative venues after
plans announced in the spring of 2009 to build a new 120
million-euro stadium near  Roland Garros  stalled because of a
lack of consensus among local politicians.  Among the options were: moving the tournament close to the
Palace of Versailles; to a location in Marne-la-Vallee, where
Disneyland Paris is based; or to Gonesse, close to Charles de
Gaulle airport.  In 2011, the French federation backed a fourth possibility
that was a variation on the 2009 plan. Under a joint proposal by
the FFT and the mayor of Paris, the existing grounds were to be
renovated and a small stadium court built in the neighboring
municipal greenhouses at the Jardin des Serres.  The City of Paris owns the Roland Garros site.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at the London sports desk 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 