-- Futures Show Traders Reverse Bets on Euro to Drop Versus Dollar
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-03-01T22:15:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/futures-show-traders-reverse-bets-on-euro-to-drop-versus-dollar.html
Futures traders are betting on a
decline in the euro versus the dollar for the first time in
seven weeks on concern growth in the euro region may slow and
Italian elections will lead to a renewal of turmoil.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with
those on a gain, the so-called net shorts, was 9,394 contracts
in the week ended Feb. 26, Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data show. There were 19,103 net-long contracts a week earlier.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s comments on
Feb. 7 that the euro’s recent strength may cause a slowdown in
inflation were a turning point for the shared currency,
according to Brian Kim, a foreign-exchange strategist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . Draghi said in January the European economy should
gradually recover. Wagers on a euro gain declined in the weeks
ended Feb. 15 and Feb. 22.  Pier Luigi Bersani, the pre-Italian election favorite and
Democratic Party leader, won Italy’s lower house by less than a
half a percentage point this week, while ex-Premier  Silvio
Berlusconi  gained a blocking minority in the Senate after the
Feb. 24-25 vote.  “Draghi probably got the market a little too excited in
January and had to temper enthusiasm in February,” Kim said in
a telephone interview. “The net-short position also captures
concern around the Italian election.”  The 17-nation currency weakened 0.3 percent to $1.3022 at 5
p.m. in  New York  after earlier falling to $1.2967, its lowest
level since Dec. 11.  The euro fell 1.8 percent over the past month, the second-
worst performer after Norway’s krone among 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar rose 3.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  