-- Genting Net Triples on One-Time Gain After Power Plant Sale
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-03-01T01:52:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/genting-net-triples-on-one-time-gain-after-power-plant-sale-1-.html
Genting Bhd. (GENT) ,  Southeast Asia ’s
biggest casinos group by sales, said fourth-quarter profit more
than tripled after booking gains from the sale of a power plant.  Net income  surged to 2.48 billion ringgit ($802 million) in
the three months ended Dec. 31, or 67.01 sen per share, from
772.9 million ringgit, or 20.94 sen, a year earlier, the company
said in a filing to the Kuala Lumpur stock exchange yesterday.
Revenue dropped 7 percent to 4.49 billion ringgit.  Genting, which has businesses as diversified as plantations
and energy, booked a gain of 1.89 billion ringgit after selling
a 720-megawatt plant at Kuala Langat in  Malaysia ’s Selangor
state. The higher profit came after three previous quarters of
earnings decline on reduced contributions from its core gaming
business and lower palm oil prices.  “The global economic outlook appears more positive this
year,” Genting said in its exchange filing.  Genting jumped as much as 1.7 percent to 9.65 ringgit in
 Kuala Lumpur , the biggest intraday gain since Jan. 7, before
paring gains to 9.63 ringgit as of 9.47 a.m. The stock has
fallen 7.8 percent over the past 12 months, underperforming a
4.1 percent gain in the FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index.  Profit at its Singapore operations  halved  last quarter
after the industry’s regulator stifled efforts by casino
operators to lure gamblers with discounts and giveaways
including free concert tickets.  Genting Singapore Plc (GENS) , which
runs one of the island-state’s two gaming resorts, plans to open
new attractions to boost sales after opening a marine park.  ‘Value Play’  The Singapore subsidiary will achieve a “more steady-state
profit margin” as major capital expenditure for the resort
tails off in the second half this year, Genting said.  The group also reported lower pretax profits at its
Malaysian and U.K. casino operations.  Genting “remains a value play,” Lucius Chong, an analyst
at  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) , wrote in a report today. “We see
Genting as a cheaper proxy to all the key listed units of the
group because it currently only factors in the value of its
listed units.”  CIMB maintained an outperform rating on the stock, an
equivalent of buy, with price target of 10.90 ringgit.  Genting’s  plantation division  saw profit contributions drop
22 percent to 96.2 million ringgit, the filing showed. Palm oil
prices fell 23 percent last year after  stockpiles  reached record
levels in Malaysia as the  European debt crisis  and slower growth
in  China  curbed demand.  Pretax profit from power generation gained 77 percent to 92
million ringgit, Genting said.  Full-year earnings climbed 39 percent 3.98 billion ringgit,
beating a  mean estimate  of 2.78 billion ringgit of 24 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  