-- German States Oppose Privatization of Municipal Water Supplies
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-03-01T16:29:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/german-states-oppose-privatization-of-municipal-water-supplies.html
Germany ’s upper house of parliament,
where the 16 states are represented, today opposed a European
Commission proposal to allow the privatization of communal water
supplies, saying it’s not a good like any other.  The upper house was “critical” of a European Union draft
directive on the awarding of certain government contracts,
published in December 2011, that would establish standards for
awarding concession contracts for services including utilities,
the chamber said on its Internet site.  “The Bundesrat attaches great importance to the
preservation of the existing structures of municipal
responsibility for the drinking water supply,” the chamber said
in a statement adopted today. “The need to ensure a safe, high-
quality and health-safe water supply precludes making water a
free merchandise.”  The Bundesrat’s view that the commission’s proposal will
lead to a “stealthy opening of the water supply for a purely
competitive market” contrasts with the commission’s stance that
it has a “neutral position on the public or private ownership
of water resources.”  A citizens’ initiative that wants to  prevent  the
privatization of water in the EU and keep water services in the
public sector has collected more than 1.2 million signatures.  Petitioners must collect at least 1 million signatures from
seven of the EU’s 27 member states in order to oblige the
commission to propose relevant legislation. Most of the
signatures in January came from Germany and  Austria , the group
said.  The commission’s draft directive is under discussion at the
European Parliament and the EU Council, which represents the
governments of EU member states. The European Parliament is
scheduled to finalize its position on the directive in a vote in
September and legislation may be finalized by the end of the
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  