-- German Regulator Slams Tarullo’s Banking Plan for U.S.
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-03-01T10:39:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/german-regulator-slams-tarullo-s-banking-plan-for-u-s-.html
Germany’s financial markets
regulator said a U.S. plan requiring local units of foreign banks
to be separately capitalized hampers global regulators in their
efforts to coordinate policy.  “It’s a step backward,” Elke Koenig, Bafin’s president,
said yesterday on the sidelines of a conference in  Frankfurt .
“Basel III is a consolidated system and such a unilateral
decision goes in the wrong direction,” she said referring to
capital rules from the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .  In November, Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo 
proposed ordering 23 foreign banks to adhere to stricter  capital
requirements  to reduce risks to the financial system. Germany’s
biggest bank may need to transfer more than $13 billion to meet
the planned rules, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said today, cutting
the company to sell from hold.  Koenig also said that the U.S. calling on banks to prepare
for a lack of coordination between regulators in the event of
defaults under so-called living wills “went in the wrong
direction.” Bafin and global peers should cooperate on making
the finance industry more stable, she said.  Co-Chief Executive Officer Anshu Jain said in January that
he wants to be “very focused on the U.S.” because of its
economic prospects and the presence that Deutsche Bank has built
there.  Deutsche Bank, the least capitalized of  Europe ’s four
biggest investment banks, has narrowed the gap to its peers by
building reserves without diluting the holdings of owners with a
share sale. Jain said he can’t rule out such a sale should
regulation tighten.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  