-- German Bunds Rise as Unemployment Climbs; Italian Bonds Fall
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-03-01T15:50:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/german-bunds-head-for-weekly-gain-before-inflation-output-data.html
Germany ’s bonds rose, pushing 10-
year yields to the lowest in eight weeks, as euro-area reports
showing unemployment climbed to a record and manufacturing
shrank boosted demand for the region’s safest securities.  Benchmark bunds extended a second weekly gain as the data
added to evidence the recession in the 17-nation area is
deepening.  Italy ’s bonds declined for the first time in three
days as the nation’s jobless level climbed to the highest since
at least 1992 and  Democratic Party  leader Pier Luigi Bersani
ruled out an alliance with rival  Silvio Berlusconi  following
inconclusive elections this week.  “German 10-year yields holding near 1.5 percent reflects
the fact that the  euro zone  is still in a difficult
environment,” said  Padhraic Garvey , head of developed-market
debt strategy at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “The economic
outlook remains poor and there is room for  interest rates  to
fall further. There’s still systemic risk in Spain, Italy and
Greece, supporting demand for safety.”  The German 10-year yield dropped three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 1.42 percent at 3:46 p.m.  London  time
after falling to 1.40 percent, the lowest since Jan. 2. The 1.5
percent bond due in February 2023 rose 0.275, or 2.75 euros per
1,000-euro ($1,301) face amount, to 100.695. The yield has
declined 15 basis points this week.  Unemployment in the region climbed to 11.9 percent in
January, the highest since the data series started in 1995, the
European Union statistics office said. A gauge of manufacturing
in the euro area based on a survey of  purchasing managers  held
at 47.9 last month, below the level of 50 that divides growth
from contraction, Markit Economics said.  Bund Returns  German  government securities  returned 1.3 percent in
February, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Italian
securities dropped 1.9 percent and Spain’s rose 0.8 percent.  Italy’s 10-year bonds extended a second week of losses as
Rome-based national statistics office said the jobless rate rose
to 11.7 percent in January from 11.3 percent in December.  Bersani told la Repubblica that he ruled out an alliance
with Berlusconi and he plans a program of reforms to attract
votes from all political parties.  A broad coalition government including Berlusconi’s People
of Liberty party “would be the death” of the Democratic Party,
Bersani said. “The hypothesis of a broad coalition doesn’t
exist and will never exist,” he said.  Own Currency  Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said the stalemate in
Italy risks unraveling years of crisis-fighting work and German
lawmaker Klaus-Peter Willsch said if a majority of Italians
can’t be convinced to stand by European Monetary Union rules,
the country must be allowed to return to its own currency.  “The Italian election is a wake-up call,” said Marchel Alexandrovich, a senior European economist at Jefferies
International Ltd. in London. “The political uncertainty there
just reminds the market of implementation and systemic risks
still facing the euro area.”  Italy’s  10-year yield  climbed six basis points to 4.79
percent, having risen 34 basis points this week.  The additional yield investors demand to hold Italian 10-
year bonds instead of similar-maturity German bunds widened nine
basis points to 337 basis points. The spread expanded to 351
basis points on Feb. 27, the most since Dec. 11.  Spanish bonds also declined, with the 10-year yield
climbing one basis point to 5.11 percent.  Finnish bonds were the most volatile in euro-area markets,
followed by those of the Netherlands and Austria, according to
measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between two- and 10-
year securities, and credit-default swaps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  