-- German Stocks Fall Amid U.S. Cuts; Deutsche Bank Drops
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-03-01T17:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/german-stocks-are-little-changed-amid-u-s-budget-talks.html
German stocks  declined, with the
benchmark index paring its weekly gain, amid investor concern
U.S. spending cuts may slow the world’s largest economy.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  fell to its lowest level since December as
Goldman Sachs Inc. downgraded the stock.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  dropped 1.9 percent and 2.1 percent,
respectively, as a gauge of carmakers was among the biggest
decliners in the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)   RWE AG (RWE)  added the most
in more than a month as Citigroup Inc. upgraded the shares.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  fell 0.4 percent to 7,708.16 at the close of
trading in  Frankfurt , after earlier losing as much as 1.5
percent. The gauge has still risen 0.6 percent this week, and
added 1.3 percent so far this year as U.S. lawmakers agreed on a
budget avoiding automatic fiscal changes that had threatened to
push the world’s biggest economy into a recession. The broader
HDAX Index also retreated 0.4 percent today.  “I think the concerns in the short term are overblown,”
Peter Garnry, an equity strategist at Saxo Bank A/S in
Copenhagen, wrote in a message. “The  U.S. economy  will not fall
apart because of one month’s sequester.”  In the U.S., Democrats and Republicans are in a standoff
over how to replace the so-called sequester, totaling $1.2
trillion over nine years, $85 billion of which would occur in
the remaining seven months of this fiscal year. Republicans
rejected Democrats’ call for higher taxes on top earners to
replace part of the spending reductions.  U.S. Output  Stocks pared losses after a report showed manufacturing in
the U.S. expanded at a faster pace than forecast in February,
reaching the highest level since June 2011 as factories boosted
production.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory  index 
advanced to 54.2, from 53.1 in January, the Tempe, Arizona-based
group said today. The figures exceeded the most optimistic
forecast in a Bloomberg survey in which the median projection
was 52.5. A reading greater than 50 signals expansion.  In  China ,  manufacturing  growth unexpectedly slowed last
month. The official purchasing managers’ index slipped to 50.1
in February from 50.4 in January, the National Bureau of
Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said
today in Beijing. The reading compared with the 50.5 median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 31 economists. A number
above 50 means that activity increased.  Deutsche Bank fell 4.3 percent to 33.57 euros. Goldman
Sachs downgraded the shares to sell from neutral.  Germany ’s
biggest lender may have to transfer $13 billion to a unit in the
U.S. to meet capital rules for foreign banks proposed by the
 Federal Reserve , according to a note by the investment bank.  Financial Stocks  “There is a cluster of bad news about Deutsche Bank
today,” Andreas Lipkow, a senior market strategist at Kliegel &
Hafner AG in Berlin, said. “As well as the Goldman Sachs note,
there is the political situation in  Europe . It is better if you
stand on the sidelines of the market and avoid financial stocks
in the short-term.”  Volkswagen, Europe’s biggest automaker, declined 3.15 euros
to 164.10 euros. BMW, the largest manufacturer of luxury cars,
lost 1.50 euros to 69.20 euros.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  retreated 1.3 percent to 8.12 euros.
Paulson & Co. will vote to block MetroPCS Communications Inc.’s
merger with Deutsche Telekom’s T-Mobile USA, saying the combined
company would hold too much debt.  RWE, Germany’s largest utility, gained 1.8 percent to 28.64
euros. Citigroup upgraded its recommendation on the shares to
neutral from sell, saying that recent management changes and
comments from the company indicated RWE will pursue a fiscally
prudent strategy.  The volume of shares changing hands on the DAX was 0.3
percent less than the average over the past 30 days, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  