-- MGIC Joins Radian Rally on Bets Insurers Survive
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-03-01T22:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/mgic-joins-radian-rally-on-bets-insurers-survive.html
MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG)  and  Radian
Group Inc. (RDN)  extended rallies as investors bet the mortgage
insurers can take on an expanded role as the U.S. scales back
its role in the housing market.  MGIC  gained  27 percent to $3.79 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York ,
extending its five-day advance to 39 percent, the biggest weekly
rally since 2009. Radian is up about 15 percent since trading
closed on Feb. 22.  Radian raised $689 million this week selling stock and
notes, and MGIC said yesterday it may also bolster capital.
Additional funds make investors more confident the insurers can
take on added housing risk as the  Federal Housing Administration 
works to cut its role in the market, said Doug Harter, an
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG.  “You have less risk of a bankruptcy,” Harter said by
phone. “If they’re around, you feel pretty good about the
growth prospects, given that the FHA is pulling back.”  MGIC Chief Executive Officer Curt Culver said yesterday
that the Milwaukee-based insurer may raise funds to cut its
risk-to-capital ratio, which breached regulatory limits. The
measure was 44.7 to 1 as of Dec. 31, compared with a maximum of
25 to 1 set by some overseers.  “There is a significant amount of capital interested in
our industry,” Chief Financial Officer Michael Lauer said on a
conference call with analysts yesterday. “We’ve got new
competitors coming in, they have attracted capital. We had the
offering this week that was well received.”  Mounting Losses  MGIC reported a  loss  of $927.1 million in 2012, and neither
MGIC nor Radian has had a yearly profit since 2006. Costs from
backing mortgage investors against losses have drained capital
at guarantors, forcing companies including Triad Guaranty Inc.
and PMI Group Inc. to stop selling new policies.  Investors may view the mortgage guarantors as a new way of
betting on a housing market recovery after other companies tied
to real estate rallied, Harter said. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Homebuilding Index (S5HOME)  jumped 79 percent in the past 12 months,
while MGIC has dropped 15 percent. Radian has more than doubled
over the period.  Lawmakers may push the FHA to increase the premium it
charges for backing mortgages, Ed Mills, an analyst at FBR
Capital Markets, said in a note today after a Senate committee
hearing.  Private Capital  “An underlying theme of yesterday’s Senate hearing was the
quest for private capital to reenter the mortgage market,”
Mills said in the note. “There was support for recent market
share gains by private mortgage insurers.”  Private insurers had 32 percent of the market last year,
according to data from Inside Mortgage Finance. That compares
with 23 percent in 2011 and 77 percent in 2006, before the
housing slump  Radian, based in Philadelphia, was the top private seller
of  mortgage insurance  last year, with a 26 percent market share.
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s United Guaranty Corp. had 24
percent and MGIC had 20 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  