-- GN Store Nord Gets Wireless-Speaker Boost as Apple Changes Port
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-03-01T12:36:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/gn-store-nord-gets-wireless-speaker-boost-as-apple-changes-port.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  changing the iPhone’s
charging port is a boon to  GN Store Nord A/S (GN) ’s mobile unit,
which predicts that a push into portable music speakers will
lead to sales rising as much as 20 percent this year.  “Apple’s change has led to many users leaving their
docking stations and going mobile,” said Anne Raaen Rasmussen,
head of mobile at GN Store Nord, in an interview at the  Mobile
World Congress  in Barcelona. “Smartphones and tablets are being
used for music and it’s your primary music device. People are
tired of using docking stations.”  Apple’s decision to equip the iPhone 5 with its Lightning
connector instead of the port used in earlier models left many
music lovers with outdated docking stations. GN Store Nord’s
Solemate portable speaker, which connects to the iPhone
wirelessly using Bluetooth technology, is doing “fantastic”
and will help drive sales this year, Rasmussen said.  The market for wireless portable speakers is booming, led
by the colorful, blackboard-eraser size Jambox made by San
Francisco-based Jawbone. The market for such portable Bluetooth
speakers grew by more than 500 percent last year in the U.S. and
800 percent in  Europe , Rasmussen said.  The Mobile unit of Ballerup, Denmark-based GN Store Nord,
saw so-called organic sales jump 11 percent to 825 million
kroner ($144 million) last year. Now it expects revenue to climb
15 percent to 20 percent in 2013, supported by a push into
music, Rasmussen said. The mobile unit accounts for about 13
percent of the company’s sales.  Music Push  The mobile market for devices integrating voice
communication and music is expected to soar 60 percent to 8
billion kroner in 2015 from 5 billion kroner last year, GN Store
Nord said Jan. 21.  GN Store Nord shares have soared 26 percent so far this
year and were up 0.9 percent at 103.1 kroner at 1:30 p.m. in
Copenhagen.  The company, which makes wireless headsets as well as
hearing aids, unveiled the  Solemate  in the third quarter to
challenge the Jambox.  “People are starting to use hands free in different ways
now, not just in the car, but in the office or with a tablet,”
Rasmussen said. “I wouldn’t say Bluetooth is cool yet, but it’s
beginning to change its reputation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  