-- Gold Outlook Splits Traders Weighing Stimulus Gains: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-03-01T17:33:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/gold-outlook-splits-traders-weighing-stimulus-gains-commodities.html
Gold traders are divided on the
outlook for prices, balancing central bank concern that more
economic stimulus is needed against signs of recovering growth
that spurred the longest run of monthly losses since 1997.  Fifteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect prices to
gain next week, while 14 were bearish and three were neutral.
They were mostly negative the previous two weeks and evenly
split the week before that. Bullion fell for a fifth straight
month in February as investors sold the most metal ever from
exchange-traded products, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Gold rose about 78 percent since the  Federal Reserve  began
asset purchases in 2008. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  defended
the $85 billion in monthly buying this week as a support for the
economy and European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
signaled stimulus will continue. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said
Feb. 25 bullion’s cycle has probably turned as the U.S. economy
gathers momentum. Hedge funds are the least bullish on gold
since 2008 and world equities set a four-year high last month.  “Confidence in a recovering U.S. economy as well as a
strong global stock market has reduced the perceived need for
gold,” said Adrian Day, who manages about $170 million of
assets as the president of Adrian Day Asset Management in
Annapolis,  Maryland . “We see this as a good level to be buying.
There is no expectation of serious tightening in any major
economy anytime soon.”  Gold Price  The metal fell 6.1 percent to $1,573.27 an ounce in  London 
this year, after 12 straight annual gains, the best run in at
least nine decades. It’s up 1.1 percent from a seven-month low
of $1,555.55 set Feb. 21. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24
commodities slid 0.5 percent this year and the MSCI All-Country
World Index of equities gained 4.1 percent. Treasuries lost 0.4
percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Investors sold 109.5 metric tons from ETPs last month, the
most ever, according to Bloomberg data going back to 2003. While
the 2,502.7 tons now held is the least in five months, it’s
valued at $126.6 billion and is 4.9 percent below the Dec. 20
record. Billionaire investor  George Soros  cut his stake in the
 SPDR Gold Trust (GLD)  by 55 percent in the fourth quarter as  John
Paulson , the largest investor in the biggest gold ETP, kept his
holding unchanged, government filings showed last month.  Hedge Funds  Hedge funds  cut their net-long position, or bets on higher
prices, by 79 percent since October to 42,318 contracts in the
week to Feb. 19, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data
show. An unwind in the bull run has begun, Credit Suisse Group
AG said in a Feb. 21 report. Goldman cut its three-month
forecast to $1,615 from $1,825 and expects $1,550 in a year’s
time. While gold should offer diversification, the “gold rush
is over,” Societe Generale SA said yesterday.  U.S. purchases of new homes surged by the most in two
decades in January and  consumer confidence  jumped last month,
Feb. 26 data show. China’s economic growth accelerated for the
first time in two years in the fourth quarter. The  International
Monetary Fund  predicts global expansion will climb to 3.5
percent this year from 3.2 percent in 2012, even as it sees a
second year of contraction in the euro area.  Gold generally earns returns only through price gains and
some investors buy it as a hedge against inflation and currency
declines. Minutes released Feb. 20 of the Fed’s latest meeting
showed some policy makers said the central bank should be ready
to vary the pace of its monthly bond purchases. The bond buying
poses little risk of asset-price bubbles or inflation, Bernanke
said Feb. 26 in  Washington .  Stimulus Measures  Draghi signaled in Munich two days ago that the ECB has no
intention of tightening monetary policy anytime soon. Bank of
England Deputy Governor  Charles Bean  said Feb. 27 that policy
makers were ready to add more monetary stimulus. Japanese Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe has nominated a new central bank governor,
raising the likelihood of further monetary stimulus this year.  Gold will still average a record $1,740 in the fourth
quarter as quantitative easing weighs on the dollar and raises
the outlook for faster inflation, according to BNP Paribas SA,
which yesterday cut its 2013 outlook by 6.7 percent to $1,670.
Inflation expectations measured by the break-even rate for five-
year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities rose 11 percent
this year and  reached  a four-month high on Feb. 6.  The metal is trading 18 percent below the record $1,921.15
set in September 2011 and this year’s drop took it below the
200-day moving average. Bullion’s 14-day relative strength  index (MXWD) 
fell to 19.3 on Feb. 20, below the level of 30 that indicates to
some analysts who study technical charts that a rebound may be
imminent. That was the lowest since 1999, the year when gold
fell to a 20-year low. The RSI was at 33.3 today.  Gold ‘Oversold’  “Sentiment is the worst we have seen it in recent years
and therefore is due a bounce,” said Mark O’Byrne, the
executive director of Dublin-based GoldCore Ltd., a brokerage
that sells and stores bullion coins and bars. “Gold is oversold
on a host of benchmarks.”  There are signs demand is improving. Physical buying from
 India , the biggest gold consumer, has been above-average
“lately,” UBS AG said on Feb. 27. Average volumes this year on
the Shanghai Gold Exchange’s benchmark contract have been more
than double last year’s levels, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Indian and Chinese demand will rise at least 11 percent this
year, the London-based World Gold Council said Feb. 14.  The  U.S. Mint  sold 80,500 ounces of American Eagle gold
coins in February, data on its website show. While that’s less
than the 150,000-ounce total in January, it’s 28 percent more
than last year’s monthly average. Central banks added 534.6 tons
to reserves last year, 17 percent more than in 2011, and will be
“strong” buyers this year, the World Gold Council estimates.  Copper Survey  In other commodities, 18 of 27 traders and analysts
surveyed expect copper to rise next week, seven were bearish and
two were neutral. The metal for delivery in three months, the
London Metal Exchange’s benchmark contract, fell 2.7 percent to
$7,713.50 a ton this year.  Twelve of 15 people surveyed expect raw sugar to gain next
week and two predict a drop. The commodity slid 7.5 percent to
18.04 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  this year.  Nineteen of 29 of those surveyed anticipate a rise in corn
prices next week and eight said the grain will drop, while 15
said soybeans will advance and nine expect lower prices. Fifteen
of 25 traders predicted higher wheat and seven were bearish.
Corn added 1.4 percent to $7.08 a bushel this year in  Chicago  as
soybeans rose 1.9 percent to $14.365 a bushel. Wheat is down 7.1
percent at $7.23 a bushel.  Commodity Prices  The S&P GSCI gauge of raw materials slipped 6.1 percent
since reaching a four-month high on Feb. 13. Cotton, gasoline
and natural gas are this year’s best performers in the index and
wheat, sugar, cocoa and gold are the worst. Commodities will
probably return about 6 percent in the next 12 months, Credit
Suisse’s private banking unit said in a Feb. 27 report.  “The February sell-off in commodities seems to have been
driven by markets running ahead of fundamentals,” said Ole Hansen, the head of commodity strategy at Saxo Bank A/S in
Copenhagen. “Stimulus is having a smaller impact on commodities
than previously. The real key is whether it will succeed in
creating growth, which is ultimately what drives the physical
demand for commodities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  