-- Goldman Tops M&A List as Berkshire-Heinz Signals Rebound
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   M a t t h e w   M o n k s
-- 2013-03-01T18:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/goldman-sachs-tops-m-a-list-as-berkshire-heinz-signals-rebound.html
When Hormel Foods Corp.  announced in
January  that it had signed a $700 million deal to acquire the
Skippy brand from Unilever NV, analysts joked about putting
peanut butter on Spam. Investors liked the combination of
foodmakers: Hormel’s stock rose 7 percent by the end of the next
day.  Since the start of 2012, investors have applauded companies
that braved a weak global economy to grow their core business
through acquisitions. It was a bright spot in a dismal year for
mergers, Bloomberg Markets magazine will report in its April
issue.  “The stock price for the buyer has gone up after making
smart acquisitions,” says Steven Baronoff, chairman of global
mergers and acquisitions at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “A
lot of companies will need to enhance growth through
acquisition.”  Global M&A volume shrank 8.7 percent to $2.2 trillion last
year, according to Bloomberg data. Chief executive officers were
skittish about tie-ups because of the European recession and
concerns that fiscal changes could slow the U.S. economy.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  led the 2012 Bloomberg Markets
ranking of M&A advisers, earning $1.77 billion in fees. The
firm’s work on four of the largest mergers of 2012 helped it
retain its No. 1 position for the 10th straight year. Goldman
advised copper producer Xstrata Plc in its  announced sale  to
 Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  for $47 billion -- the biggest hookup
of last year.  Asian Deals  Energy companies were the most active dealmakers as firms
bought assets in advance of an expected rise in natural gas
prices. Oil exploration and production companies were the top
takeover targets by value, with $144 billion in deals. M&A by
consumer goods firms also rose last year, while industrial and
financial companies cut fewer agreements.  Asian companies bought more firms in the U.S. -- a trend
that’s likely to continue, says John Studzinski, head of
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s advisory unit in New York. U.S.
acquisitions by Japanese firms totaled $74 billion, up from $44
billion in 2011. In the biggest such merger of the year,
Softbank Corp. of Tokyo agreed to pay $37.8 billion in October
for Overland Park, Kansas-based  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)   “I see Asian companies wanting to acquire brands,
technology and other expertise in open markets,” Studzinski
says.  The big deals announced on Feb. 14 have given bankers hope
that 2013 will be a better year for M&A.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) 
and 3G Capital Inc. agreed to buy H.J. Heinz Co. for about $23
billion, and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  will merge with  American
Airlines  in an $11 billion deal. Some CEOs, concerned that low
interest rates may start to rise later this year, may make
acquisitions before cheap financing disappears.  Big Oil Firepower  “You have the most attractive  debt market  in a
generation,” says Osmar Abib, co-head of Credit Suisse Group
AG’s energy investment-banking practice. He expects big oil to
forge hookups. “They have plenty of firepower,” Houston-based
Abib says.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ; Matthew Monks in
New York at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  