-- Google Defeats Publishers Over Web Copyright in German Vote
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-03-01T10:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/google-defeats-publishers-over-copyright-in-german-parliament.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  and other news
aggregators may continue to show short news items on their
Internet sites without being required to pay, German lawmakers
decided in a parliamentary vote today in a blow to publishers
including  Axel Springer AG (SPR)  and Bertelsmann SE.  A majority of lawmakers from Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
coalition allowed companies such as Google to display “single
words or very small text excerpts” referring to publishers’
websites at no cost. For content exceeding these limits,
publishers retain the exclusive right of use, according to the
bill.  Publishers, pressed by falling revenue from newspapers and
magazines, argued search engines and aggregators like Google
News should pay for displaying short excerpts from news stories.
Google, which doesn’t display ads on its news aggregator pages
in  Europe , argued its so-called “snippets” are actually
helping publishers by driving traffic to their sites.  The bill by Germany’s Justice Ministry gives publishers one
year during which they have the sole rights to commercially use
their journalistic content. Google’s director of public policy
in Europe, Simon Hampton, in November called this a “complete
reversal of the legal situation today” and a reversal of
current Web practices.  French Settlement  “As a result of today’s vote, ancillary copyright in its
most damaging form has been stopped,” Google said in a
statement. “However, the best outcome for Germany would be no
new legislation because it threatens innovation, particularly
for start-ups. It’s also not necessary because publishers and
Internet companies can innovate together, just as Google has
done in many other countries.”  Google Chairman  Eric Schmidt  and French President  Francois Hollande  earlier this year signed an agreement to settle
disputes with French news sites. Under the accord,  Mountain
View , California-based Google will help publishers lift Web
advertising sales and set up a 60 million-euro ($78 million)
fund to boost their digital publishing efforts.  The search-engine operator in 2011 removed some Belgian
newspaper content from its search engine after an appeals court
upheld a 2007 ruling granted in favor of newspaper association
Copiepresse, forcing Google to remove links and snippets of
articles from Google.com and Google.be.  Google later agreed to restore French- and German-language
newspapers in  Belgium  to search results without displaying the
papers’ full articles.  The  bill  was passed in the Bundestag with 293 votes in
favor, 243 against and three abstentions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  