-- Google May Not Have to Give Ex-Workers Many Documents
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-03-01T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/google-must-show-ex-workers-some-documents-only.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  may not have to turn
over many of the documents sought by former workers of
technology companies suing over claims the employers agreed to
not recruit from each other.  U.S. District Judge Paul S. Grewal in San Jose, California,
ruled yesterday that 17 of the 166 documents he reviewed, and
which the former employees seek, are protected by attorney-
client privilege. The documents are e-mails involving Bill Campbell, who has ties to Google and two other defendants,
 Intuit Inc. (INTU)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   The employees, by March 4, can ask the judge to determine
whether the remaining documents at issue are privileged,
according to the ruling.  The dispute is the latest over information sharing, or
discovery, in a lawsuit filed in 2011 against seven technology
companies. The other defendants are  Intel Corp. (INTC)   Adobe Systems
Inc. (ADBE) ,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Pixar animation unit and Lucasfilm Ltd.  Plaintiffs said in court filings that their discovery has
confirmed that senior officers at the companies personally
entered into non-solicitation agreements to eliminate
competition for each other’s employees, kept the pacts hidden
from the workers, supervised the implementation of the plans,
and policed each other.  Campbell, the former chief executive officer of Intuit is
now chairman of the company. He serves on Apple’s board and has
been an adviser to Google.  Employees claim Campbell was a “co-conspirator of Google”
and “primary actor and central participant in the defendants’
illegal activity,” according to a court filing.  Both sides are waiting for U.S. District Judge Lucy H. Koh
in San Jose to rule whether the case will proceed as a group
lawsuit, with a proposed class of employees including engineers,
sous chefs, administrative assistants and others.  Dean Harvey, a lawyer representing the employees, didn’t
immediately return a call or e-mail yesterday after regular
business hours seeking comment on the ruling.  The San Jose case is In Re High-Tech Employee Antitrust
Litigation, 11-2509, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 California  (San Jose). The previous case is U.S. v. Adobe
Systems, 10-cv-1629, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  