-- Liberal Democrats Hold Eastleigh Seat in Blow to Cameron
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-03-01T09:40:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/liberal-democrats-hold-eastleigh-seat-in-blow-to-cameron.html
The U.K. Liberal Democrat party held
the seat of Eastleigh in a special election, adding to the woes
of Prime Minister  David Cameron , whose  Conservative Party  was
pushed into third place behind the U.K. Independence Party.  Liberal Democrat  Mike Thornton won 32.1 percent of the vote
in yesterday’s election to the House of Commons. UKIP, which
campaigns to take Britain out of the European Union, came in
second with 27.8 percent, ahead of the Conservative candidate
with 25.4 percent. The main opposition  Labour Party  was fourth
with 9.82 percent. The result was announced in the southern
English town early today.  The battle for Eastleigh, caused by the resignation of
Liberal Democrat lawmaker  Chris Huhne  after he pleaded guilty to
perverting the course of justice, started by pitching the two
parties of Britain’s ruling coalition against each other. It
ended with a reminder of the difficulties confronting Cameron,
who’ll face questions from his own side about how he plans to
see off the threat from UKIP.  “This is a terrible result for Cameron; coming third in a
by-election you hope to win is colossally bad,”  Justin Fisher ,
who teaches politics at London’s Brunel University, said in a
telephone interview. “He’s in an unenviable position. He’ll be
under pressure to change course but he’s damned if he does and
damned if he doesn’t.”  Swing District  Both Cameron and his coalition partner, the deputy prime
minister and Liberal Democrat leader  Nick Clegg , needed to show
their supporters they could win in this type of swing district
as politicians on all sides look to the next general election,
due in 2015.  “If the Conservatives can’t win Eastleigh, it seems
unlikely they could win a majority” in 2015,  John Curtice ,
professor of politics at Strathclyde University in Glasgow, told
the  BBC . He said UKIP’s showing is “a reminder that the
message, ‘we’re unhappy about austerity, we’re unhappy about
immigration,’ has resonance.”  The prime minister’s defeat comes on top of Moody’s
Investors Service downgrading the U.K.’s top debt rating last
week as the economy struggles to grow. His party has been behind
Labour in national opinion polls for almost a year and his
lawmakers have rebelled against him on issues ranging from
relations with the EU to the legalization of gay marriage.  ‘Getting Results’  Education Secretary Michael Gove said Cameron should
emulate  Margaret Thatcher , who refused to be swayed by defeats
in special elections in the 1980s, and ignore calls from rank-
and-file lawmakers to ditch policies aimed at winning over
voters in the political center ground.  “There will be certain commentators who will say the
Conservative Party needs to move to the right. They are wrong,”
Gove told BBC Radio 4’s “Today” show. “What we need to
demonstrate is that the course that we have set is getting
results.”  In January, the prime minister pledged a referendum on
Britain’s membership of the EU, partly as a result of Tory
lawmakers calling for him to address the threat that growing
support for UKIP and its anti-EU policy will cost them seats.
That didn’t stop UKIP registering its best ever result in
Eastleigh, with 28 percent of the vote.  UKIP said a third of its vote in the town come from the
Conservatives and reflected protests against gay marriage,  wind
turbines  and “unhindered immigration” from  India . Nigel Farage, the party’s leader, said Cameron is a “con man” and
voters didn’t believe he was a real conservative.  ‘Increasing Revulsion’  “The Conservatives’ problems are not because of UKIP,
they’re because of its leader,” Farage told “Today” after the
result was declared. “There’s an increasing revulsion at three
political parties that look the same, sound the same and don’t
offer any policy differences.”  The party took votes from all three other main parties,
Farage said, and is attracting people back who have not voted
for 30 years.  “If the  Conservative Party  thought that the rise of UKIP
in recent months was due to euro-skepticism, they should now be
disabused of that notion,” Curtice said.  For Clegg, the victory demonstrates that his Liberal
Democrats can hold on to Commons seats even though their
nationwide poll ratings have fallen by more than half since they
entered coalition with Cameron after the 2010 election.  Harassment Allegations  It also shows the party has so far survived damage from
accusations that a former Liberal Democrat chief executive
officer abused his position to molest women. Clegg spent much of
the week defending his handling of the allegations that Chris Rennard tried to grope female activists at party events. Rennard
denies wrongdoing.  Clegg told supporters in Eastleigh today that the party had
overcome the attacks of opponents to win “a stunning victory.”  “My message is very simple: we can be a party of
government and still win,” he said. The  Liberal Democrats  are
becoming “a winning party of government.”  Speaking alongside Clegg, Thornton said the result bode
well for the Liberal Democrats at the next general election.
“We know we can win here and win right across the country
because we know our policies are right,” he said.  Huhne, who was energy secretary in the coalition Cabinet
until last year, quit Parliament last month after pleading
guilty to perverting the course of justice by asking his wife to
say she was driving his car when it was caught speeding in 2003.
He faces jail.  In the 2010 election, Huhne took 47 percent of the vote in
Eastleigh for the Liberal Democrats, while the Conservatives
took 39 percent and Labour 10 percent. Yesterday, UKIP increased
its share of the vote by 24 percentage points at the expense of
both the Liberal Democrats and the Tories. Each saw their share
of the vote fall by 14 points, while Labour was little changed.  Clegg opted for the shortest possible campaign, in order to
capitalize on his party’s organization in the district, where it
dominates the local government. Ministers and lawmakers from
both governing parties paid frequent visits to the seat in
recent weeks in a bid to persuade wavering voters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  