-- Hibu Gets Default Rating After Missing Interest Payment on Loans
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2013-03-01T17:40:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/hibu-gets-default-rating-after-missing-interest-payment-on-loans.html
Hibu Plc, (HIBU)  the U.K. yellow pages
publisher, has been downgraded to default status after the
company failed to make a payment on more than 2 billion pounds
($3 billion) of loans.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the Reading, England-based
company’s rating to D from CC after it failed to pay interest
due yesterday on loans from 2009, S&P said today in a statement.
Its 630 million-pound Term Loan A1 is quoted at about 18 percent
of face value, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  “We do not believe that the group will make the interest
payments within the following five business days because it is
contemplating a financial restructuring,” S&P said. “Recent
adverse macroeconomic and market developments make the group’s
existing capital structure unsustainable.”  Hibu, formerly known as Yell, joins other European
directories companies in renegotiating loans as paper-directory
businesses suffer from Internet competition and large debt
burdens. Italy’s Seat Pagine Gialles SpA last month  said  it
wouldn’t pay interest on debt and sought protection from its
creditors.  Hibu said last month it didn’t expect to make the payment
of about 49 million pounds and would also miss a further 25
million-pound payment on March 28. Hibu obtained temporary
approval from lenders allowing it to hold debt restructuring
talks, and had sought an extension to March 29, it said.  S&P said Hibu has sufficient liquidity to make upcoming
interest payments and debt amortization requirements because it
had about 135 million pounds of cash at the end of 2012.  Andrew Dowler , a London-based spokesman for Hibu, declined
to comment on the loan payments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  