-- High-Risk Compounding Pharmacies Targeted for FDA Review
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-03-01T21:23:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/high-risk-compounding-pharmacies-targeted-for-fda-review.html
About 30 “high risk” compounding
pharmacies are being targeted by U.S. regulators for inspections
over the next two months as part of intensified enforcement
efforts after last year’s deadly meningitis outbreak.  The companies primarily make sterile drugs and distribute
products to health-care providers nationwide, Erica Jefferson, a
spokeswoman for the Food and Drug Administration, said today in
a phone interview. The visits, which began Feb. 19 and will
continue about two months, are the first proactive inspections
the agency has conducted of compounding pharmacies, she said.  Facilities in  Florida ,  Chicago ,  Arkansas  and  Mississippi 
were found with conditions that put their drugs at risk of
microbiological contamination, the FDA said in four  inspection
reports   today on its website. Drug compounders were thrust into
the spotlight when New England Compounding Pharmacy Inc. shut
down in October after its contaminated steroid shots were linked
to a fungal meningitis outbreak that has killed 48 people.  “The recent tragic fungal meningitis outbreak has shed a
harsh and important light on this area for us,” Jefferson said.  Compounding pharmacies traditionally prepare personalized
prescriptions and are regulated by state health authorities. The
meningitis outbreak revealed some companies go beyond that task
by producing larger amounts of medicines, acting more like a
drug manufacturer overseen by the FDA.  Typically the FDA waits for complaints against these
pharmacies before doing inspections. Jefferson wouldn’t say how
many of the businesses targeted have been inspected as of today.  Pharmacy Selection  The agency chose the pharmacies to inspect based on a
potential for risk using adverse event reports turned in to the
FDA, historical inspection data, reports of quality problems and
public information. The FDA is working with state regulators to
conduct the inspections.  Republican lawmakers on the House Energy and Commerce
Committee said at a November hearing that the FDA should have
shut down Framingham, Massachusetts-based New England
Compounding years before the outbreak when evidence of
contamination first emerged. FDA Commissioner Margaret Hamburg
said a patchwork of regulations restrained the agency from
acting.  The FDA now plans to test drugs at compounding pharmacies
where initial inspections raise flags, Jefferson said.  The agency may not be able to shut down certain pharmacies
that are operating within traditional compounding law, which
requires firms to make drugs only in response to patient
prescriptions. Those cases will be referred to state regulators
and the FDA plans to continue to publicly post the inspection
observations, Jefferson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  