-- Hikma Weighs Unsolicited Approaches for Injectable-Drug Unit
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-03-01T17:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/hikma-weighs-unsolicited-approaches-for-injectable-drug-unit-1-.html
Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc (HIK)  said it’s
considering a possible sale of its injectable-medicines
business, the second-biggest by volume in the U.S., after
receiving unsolicited expressions of interest.  Hikma “will consider the best option for shareholders,”
Chief Executive Officer Said Darwazah said today in a statement.
The London-based company said it will make a further
announcement “if appropriate.” The stock rose 8.1 percent, the
biggest gain since March 18, 2009.  The business, which Hikma expanded in 2010 with a $112
million purchase from  Baxter International Inc. (BAX) , could be sold
for as much as $1.5 billion, said Savvas Neophytou, an analyst
at Panmure Gordon & Co., while Jefferies International Ltd.
analyst James Vane-Tempest said the unit could fetch as much as
$2.2 billion. Mylan Inc. agreed this week to buy  Strides Arcolab
Ltd. (STR) ’s injectable-medicine unit for $1.6 billion.  “We are making a positive read-across from M&A activity,
which demonstrates attractiveness of the company’s injectables
business,” Neophytou said in a note to investors.  The shares closed at 936.50 pence in London, giving the
company a market value of 1.85 billion pounds ($2.8 billion).
It’s the stock’s highest price since the company’s initial
public offering in 2005. Trading volume was almost eight times
the three-month daily average.  Exceeding Expectations  Hikma in November said the unit has been performing ahead
of expectations and that full-year sales could reach about $460
million, exceeding an earlier estimate. Bank of America Corp.
and Centerview Partners are advising Hikma, which reports full-
year earnings March 13.  A sale price may be bumped higher if  Hospira Inc. (HSP) , the
biggest U.S. injectable-drug maker, is unable to clear
inspection of a North Carolina plant by the Food and Drug
Administration, Neophytou said. Potential bidders could include
generic-drug makers  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
 Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Sandoz unit and  Actavis Inc. (ACT) , formerly known as
Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc., he said.  Novartis spokesman  Eric Althoff , Actavis spokesman Charlie
Mayr and Teva spokeswoman Denise Bradley declined to comment.  Mylan had looked at other injectable-drug companies and
assets before buying the Strides unit and was disappointed
because “a lot of the facilities out there are really old,”
CEO Heather Bresch said in an interview yesterday.  Pricing Concerns  It’s unclear whether the approaches have been for Hikma’s
global or U.S. injectable-drug business, Jefferies’ Vane-Tempest
said. Some investors have been concerned about the pricing of
injectables, especially in the U.S., he said.  “If Hikma was to sell its injectables business, given
Hikma’s  acquisitive past , we would expect the company to
reinvest potential proceeds in its legacy Middle East North
Africa business and continue its acquisition strategy across
sub-Saharan Africa and Turkey, markets previously cited that are
of interest,” Vane-Tempest wrote in a note to clients.  Separately, Hikma is considering options for its U.S. oral
generic-drug business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  London  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  