-- India to Lengthen Maturity of Debt Portfolio to Cut Repayments
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h a   S i n g h
-- 2013-03-01T10:43:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/india-to-lengthen-maturity-of-debt-portfolio-to-cut-repayments.html
India  will lengthen the maturity of
its rupee debt portfolio by replacing some notes due in the
three years to March 2017 with 15-year securities.  The so-called bond switch is aimed at reducing “bunched-
up” redemption pressure in the next two to three years, said
Rajat Bhargava, joint secretary in charge of budget in the
Ministry of Finance. Notes worth 1.68 trillion rupees ($31
billion) are maturing in the fiscal year ending March 31, 2015,
budget documents show, 77 percent more than in the year starting
April 1.  “The timing of the bond switch announcement will be
important,” said Arvind Chari, a senior  fund manager  at Quantum
Asset Management Co. in Mumbai. “The government needs to gauge
the appetite for longer-dated securities, particularly in the
backdrop of large debt supplies next year.”  The bond switch announcement follows Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram’s proposal yesterday to buyback
government notes worth 500 billion rupees in the 12 months
through March 2014, also aimed at reducing redemption pressure.
The switch program, which is estimated to cost 30 billion rupees,
will work in tandem with repurchases, said Bhargava and is part
of a strategy to effect “medium-term”  fiscal  correction, said
Bhargava.  He didn’t say when the exercise will begin.  Accounting Issues  Bhargava said the gross borrowing target of 6.29 trillion
rupees for the next fiscal year announced in the budget
yesterday includes additional bond issuance of 500 billion for
buybacks.  The government will need to redeem a combined 770 billion
rupees of securities in April and May of 2014, according to
budget documents.  Indian lenders, the largest  holders  of  government bonds ,
are allowed to hold as much as 25 percent of their deposits to
maturity without valuing them at the latest market prices. The
hold-to-maturity accounting rule protects banks from losses and
helps keep government borrowing costs low by encouraging them to
buy debt.  Accounting issues may prevent banks from selling debt back
to the government, according to Prasanna Ananthasubramanian, an
analyst at ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Ltd. in Mumbai.  “Whether the buyback program will be successful is a
little uncertain,” he said.  Apart from held-to-maturity, Indian lenders also hold debt
in the held-for-trading category, where the assets have to be
valued at current prices at least every month. Such securities
must be sold within three months after they were bought.  Investments in the so-called available-for-sale grouping
need to be valued every quarter. There is no compulsion to sell
the securities marked under this category.  The government last bought back bonds through an auction in
October 2010, central bank data show. While the  finance ministry 
offered to repurchase 120 billion rupees of bonds, investors
sold 21.48 billion rupees of notes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddhartha Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 ssingh283@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  