-- India Bonds Gain on Optimism Slowing Growth May Spur Rate Cut
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2013-03-01T04:51:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/india-bonds-gain-on-optimism-slowing-growth-may-spur-rate-cut.html
India’s  benchmark bonds  advanced the
most in two weeks on optimism slowing economic growth and the
government’s success in fiscal consolidation will prompt the
central bank to reduce interest rates.  Asia’s third-largest economy grew 4.5 percent in the three
months ended Dec. 31 from a year earlier, the weakest pace in
almost four years, a government statement showed yesterday.
Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram, in his budget speech
the same day, said the fiscal deficit will be reduced to 4.8
percent of gross domestic product in the 12 months starting
April 1. The shortfall will be contained at 5.2 percent this
year, compared with a target of 5.3 percent, he said.  “The government’s adherence to the deficit ratio and a
weakening economy is likely to result in an interest-rate cut,”
said Shubhada Rao, the Mumbai-based chief economist at  Yes Bank
Ltd. (YES)  in Mumbai. “There is serious effort by the finance
minister at fiscal consolidation, and one has to go with the
intent at the moment.”  The yield on the 8.15 percent notes due June 2022 fell two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.85 percent as of
9:40 a.m. in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system. The rate rose five basis points this week.  The yield jumped the most in seven months yesterday as
Chidambaram projected gross market borrowing for the fiscal year
through March 2014 at a record 6.29 trillion rupees ($115
billion), compared with 5.8 trillion estimated in a Bloomberg
survey.  ‘Knee-Jerk Reaction’  “Yesterday’s price movement was probably a knee-jerk
reaction and the gross borrowing target factors in a buyback of
500 billion rupees of bonds as well,” Yes Bank’s Rao said. She
predicts the benchmark yield may drop to 7.75 percent if the
central bank cuts rates this month.  The Reserve Bank of  India  last cut the repurchase rate by
25 basis points to 7.75 percent on Jan. 29, the first reduction
in nine months. Monetary policy will be reviewed on March 19.  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivative contract used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, fell two basis
point to 7.61 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  