-- Indian Oil Increases Gasoline Prices After Rupee Declines
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-03-01T13:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/indian-oil-increases-gasoline-prices-after-rupee-declines.html
Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL) , the nation’s
biggest refiner, increased gasoline prices for the second time
in two weeks as a depreciating rupee raised the cost of
importing crude oil.  Gasoline will cost 1.4 rupees more a liter, excluding local
taxes, starting midnight, the New Delhi-based state-owned
company said in an e-mailed statement today. The price will
increase 2.4 percent to 70.74 rupees ($1.3) a liter in New
Delhi, according to the refiner’s website.  Bharat Petroleum
Corp. (BPCL) , the second-biggest state refiner, and  Hindustan Petroleum
Corp. (HPCL)  typically follow Indian Oil.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government, seeking to cut
the  budget deficit  to the lowest in four years, allowed state-
run refiners to revise fuel prices more frequently to help them
reduce losses from sales and increase cash flows. Price of
diesel, which is sold below cost, can be increased every month
until the shortfall is wiped out.  Indian Oil loses 11.26 rupees on every liter of diesel it
sells, according to the statement. The deficit on kerosene is
33.43 rupees a liter and on liquefied petroleum gas used for
cooking is 439 rupees on every 14.2-kilogram bottle.  The rupee declined 1.2 percent against the U.S. dollar
since Feb. 16, when gasoline prices were previously raised,
making it the second-worst performer among major currencies in
Asia Pacific. A decline in the rupee’s value means the refiners
pay more to import crude oil.  Indian Oil shares  gained  2.1 percent to 298.85 rupees at
the close in Mumbai, compared with a 0.3 percent increase in the
benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  index. Bharat Petroleum rose 3.6
percent and Hindustan Petroleum 4.4 percent.  Brent crude, a benchmark for more than half of the world’s
oil, including  India , has declined 0.8 percent this year. The
April contract traded 1 percent lower at $110.23 a barrel as of
12.46 p.m. on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  