-- Indonesia Inflation Quickens to 20-Month High on Food, Power
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-03-01T03:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/indonesia-inflation-accelerates-to-20-month-high-on-food-power.html
Indonesia ’s inflation accelerated to
a 20-month high in February on higher food prices and power
tariffs, reducing scope for the central bank to cut  interest
rates  as exports falter.  Consumer prices  climbed 5.31 percent from a year earlier,
after a previously reported 4.57 percent gain in January, the
Statistics Bureau said in Jakarta today. The  median  estimate in
a Bloomberg News survey of 18 economists was 4.81 percent.  Bank Indonesia  has held  borrowing costs  at a record-low
5.75 percent for a year as the inflation rate stayed above 4
percent for most of that period and a trade deficit exacerbated
the currency’s weakness. Higher power tariffs and minimum wages
may increase price pressures in coming months, with food prices
also still elevated after floods in January.  “The pressure from some raw food prices is still there,
and the other factor that has contributed to inflation is the
hike in power tariffs, that has started to have an impact,”
 Anton Gunawan , chief economist at PT Bank Danamon Indonesia,
said before the data. “Inflation may accelerate to close to the
upper limit of the central bank’s target.”  The rupiah was little changed at 9,675 per dollar as of
10:00 a.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency is among the worst
performers in the past year among 11 most-active Asian
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Rupiah Intervention  The central bank has stepped up intervention to support the
rupiah and narrow the gap between local and overseas prices,
Hendar,  executive director  for monetary policy, said in a Jan.
28 interview. The monetary authority may take action on its
benchmark rate if the currency’s depreciation causes inflation
to accelerate, Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono has said.  Consumer prices rose 0.75 percent last  month  from January,
today’s report showed.  Core inflation  was 4.29 percent, compared
with a previously reported 4.32 percent pace the month before.  Exports fell 1.2 percent in January from a year earlier, a
separate report showed today. Imports increased 6.8 percent in
the same period, leading to a deficit of $171 million.  “Lackluster commodity prices and the softness across the
globe weigh on receipts,” said  Fred Gibson , a Sydney-based
economist at Moody’s Analytics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  