-- Minnesota Counties Sue MERS, JPMorgan Over Filing Fees
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-03-01T00:50:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/minnesota-counties-sue-mers-jpmorgan-over-filing-fees.html
Minnesota ’s Ramsey and Hennepin
counties sued Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems Inc. and
a dozen financial institutions, claiming the use of MERS to
avoid paying mortgage-assignment filing fees violates state law.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp . and  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  are among the co-defendants. The counties, which include
Minnesota’s capital of  St. Paul  and its most-populous city,
 Minneapolis , filed the lawsuit in state court this month on
behalf of all of the state’s counties. The case was moved
yesterday to federal court in St. Paul.  MERS, a unit of co-defendant Merscorp Holdings Inc., files
mortgages as the lenders’ assignees or nominees to eliminate the
need to record assignments of the notes securing those loans
when they’re sold.  The banks’ use of MERS “hid the many assignments
defendants made electronically and simply failed to create or
record in the proper Minnesota county recorders’ offices,”
violating state law, the counties alleged.  “In other instances, defendants simply failed to record
any mortgage assignments at all -- regardless of how many times
each mortgage loan had actually been assigned,” according to
the complaint, circumventing other state laws by avoiding the
payment of filing fees of about $46 per assignment.  Member-Based  MERS, a closely held company based in Reston,  Virginia ,
describes itself on its website as a member-based organization
comprising about 3,000 lenders, loan servicers, investors and
government institutions.  The counties, accusing the defendants of creating a public
nuisance by obscuring note holders’ identities and of unjust
enrichment, seek a court order recognizing their right to sue as
a class. They also want every mortgage and assignment in the
state be recorded in the county where the underlying property is
located, plus restitution.  “Use of the MERS system is legal in all 50 states and MERS
complies with Minnesota property recording statutes,” Merscorp
said in a statement this month upon the filing of the case,
which it said lacked merit.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for New York-based
JPMorgan, and Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for New
York-based Citigroup, each declined to comment on the
allegations. Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, also declined to comment.  The case is County of Ramsey v. Merscorp Holdings Inc., 13-
cv-474, U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota (St. Paul).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in federal court in Chicago at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  