-- Factory Expansion Spurs Growth as Budget Cuts Loom: Economy
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-03-01T21:21:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/ism-index-of-u-s-manufacturing-increased-to-54-2-in-february.html
American factories expanded in
February at the fastest pace in almost two years, spurred by a
jump in orders that is helping propel an economy about to be
tested by federal government cutbacks.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  factory index  rose to
54.2, the highest reading since June 2011, the Tempe, Arizona-
based group said today. Other data showed  consumer spending  rose
in January even as incomes plunged, and household confidence
climbed last month.  Companies such as  Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT)  are benefiting
from growing demand as businesses boost  spending  and economies
in  emerging markets  pick up. Combined with a rebound in housing
and sustained gains in household purchases, the factory gains
will help lift growth, after the economy stagnated in the fourth
quarter, even as across-the-board budget cuts set in.  “The data continue to be consistent with a moderate
recovery,” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist in New York for
Barclays Plc. “Production is picking up and that is a key
reason why we think growth will be stronger in the first
quarter. Underlying all this is a pretty steady pace of consumer
spending. Auto sales and housing are quite solid right now. The
economy can withstand some fiscal tightening without going into
recession.”  Personal spending rose in January even as incomes dropped
by the most in 20 years, a report from the Commerce Department
showed. Household purchases, which account for about 70 percent
of the economy, climbed 0.2 percent after a 0.1 percent gain the
prior month. Incomes slumped 3.6 percent, sending the saving
rate down to the lowest level since November 2007.  Consumer Sentiment  Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan said today its final
index of  consumer sentiment  climbed in February to a three-month
high of 77.6 from 73.8 a month earlier. The gauge was projected
to match the preliminary reading of 76.3, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Stocks rose, reversing early losses, after the reports. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.2 percent to 1,518.2 at
the close in  New York , after declining as much as 0.9 percent
earlier.  The pickup at U.S. factories comes as the rest of world’s
producers struggle to rebound. Two Chinese manufacturing indexes
showed a slower-than-estimated pace of expansion in February. In
the U.K.,  manufacturing  unexpectedly shrank last month as orders
plunged. Factories in the euro region contracted for a 19th
straight month.  The median projection in the Bloomberg survey for the U.S.
ISM manufacturing gauge was 52.5, and estimates ranged from 50.5
to 54. Readings above 50 signal expansion.  Production, Orders  The group’s measure of  production  increased to the highest
level since April 2012, while the  new orders  gauge was the
strongest since April 2011. The index of export demand improved
to a nine-month high.  Investment in new equipment is at the root of the recent
pickup in increased activity on factory floors. Orders for
capital goods, excluding military gear and aircraft, have
climbed 9.5 percent since October, the biggest three-month gain
since 1993, according to Commerce Department figures released
earlier this week.  Applied Materials, the largest producer of chipmaking
equipment, forecast fiscal second-quarter sales that beat most
estimates, indicating that some customers are expanding output
on brisk demand for mobile devices.  “The momentum in the business is strong,” Michael
Splinter, chief executive officer at the  Santa Clara ,
California-based company, said at a conference the following
day. “Our display business is starting to come back. Orders are
picking up there as well.”  Auto Sales  Consumer demand for motor vehicles has bolstered business
for U.S. producers as well. Cars and light trucks  sold  at a 15.2
million annual rate in January after 15.3 million a month
earlier, according to Ward’s Automotive Group. November through
January were the strongest three months of the  auto industry  in
five years.  February sales, being reported today, show General Motors
Co., Ford Motor Co. Chrysler Group LLC and Toyota Motor Corp.
posted gains as low  interest rates  and more-available credit
draws buyers to dealerships.  At the same time, the expiration of the  payroll tax  cut in
January, coupled with climbing gasoline prices, is trimming
discretionary income and may limit the gains in household
purchases in the first quarter.  “It’s going to be touch and go for the consumer for the
next few months,” said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at
Moody’s Analytics in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania , who correctly
projected the 3.6 percent drop in income. “The consumer is
going to be able to support the recovery, but they’re not going
to be able to take it” to a higher level, he said.  Payroll Tax  Congress and President  Barack Obama  allowed the payroll tax
to return to its 2010 level of 6.2 percent from 4.2 percent at
the start of the year, which means an American who earns $50,000
is taking home about $83 less a month.  Democrats and Republicans are in a standoff over how to
replace $1.2 trillion in  federal budget  cuts over the next nine
years that begin today. Of that total, $85 billion would occur
in the remaining seven months of this fiscal year.  For all the concern about the cuts, investors are signaling
the economy is strong enough to weather any reductions in
spending, with home sales,  consumer confidence  and employment
all rebounding.  The  S&P 500  climbed 6.3 percent this year through last
week, better than the 4.1 percent gain for the MSCI All Country
World Index. Treasuries were becalmed, with yields on 10-year
notes ending last week at 1.96 percent, little changed over the
last month. The U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the currency
against six of America’s biggest trading partners, was at a
five-month high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  