-- Italy’s Post-Election Chaos Isn’t What You Think
-- B y   C a r l o   B a s t a s i n
-- 2013-03-01T17:39:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/italy-s-post-election-chaos-isn-t-what-you-think.html
No parliament, no government, no
president of the republic. And now not even a pope. The
situation in Italy resembles a house of cards in a perfect
storm.  It’s not just a matter of politicians, scenarios and
furniture flying all over the place until the storm subsides.
The problem is deeper than that. The new Italian Parliament has
three minorities that are unable to form a majority. It is a
 power game  in which Pier Luigi Bersani, the electoral winner, is
the political loser, and the electoral losers, former Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  and ex-comic Beppe Grillo, are the
political winners.  Consider this. Almost half of those Italians who cast their
ballots for one of the traditional parties switched their vote
this time. You think Americans are fed up with Congress? In
Italy, trust in the government stands at 5 percent, and trust in
Parliament at 8 percent. The rate of abstentions is high. The
party holding the majority of seats in the Chamber of Deputies
-- 54 percent, as required by law -- won the support of just 20
percent of the electorate.  On top of all this, the timeline to form a new government
is tight. The Parliament convenes for the first time March 15.
Amid all the confusion, the parties must agree within 10 days on
the leaders of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. Then they
have to nominate a prime minister, who must form a government
and take an oath in front of the president of the republic. All
this before April 15, when the Parliament meets to elect a new
president of the republic.  Against Everything  So I can sympathize with those who despair and say  Italy 
has chosen nihilism, or who say, in effect, that Italians voted
against everything -- including  Europe  and austerity, which they
had come to believe in before the debt crisis. I understand why
people are saying Italy could bring down the whole euro project.
But I disagree with them.  Italians remain pro-European, and fewer people than you
would suppose are seriously thinking of relinquishing either the
euro or the economic-policy commitments that come with it.  Discontent is focused, above all, on taxes. They are among
the highest in the euro area.  Taxes on business  are the highest
of any euro member, and they are severely hurting a weakened
economy. Italians see excessive taxes mainly as the consequence
of bad political management. It’s not that they object to Europe
and austerity. Rather, they are angry about the tax increases
introduced under the banner of Europe and austerity.  If austerity means fiscal discipline, Italians actually
want more of it. This is why  New York  Times columnist  Paul Krugman  is wrong to say Italians shunned an intelligent and
credible man such as Prime Minister  Mario Monti  because he was
“the proconsul installed by  Germany  to enforce fiscal austerity
on an already ailing economy.”  In Italy’s case, however, the argument about fiscal
stimulus just misses the point. A bigger  budget deficit  wouldn’t
do much to stimulate demand, because the real problem is the
breakdown in Italy’s supply of credit. From the beginning of the
euro crisis three years ago, Italy has seen a faster shrinkage
in total credit supply than most euro-area countries, as foreign
banks have repatriated their loans. This widespread lack of
credit has crushed the  private economy . Businesses and
households can’t get loans and are cutting investments and
consumption at an unprecedented rate.  Effective Answers  Reviving the market for credit is the first job. This would
be far more effective than delivering a new fiscal stimulus. In
fact, continued budget discipline is vital in ending the credit
crunch. The new government must negotiate a deal with the
European Union and with the  European Central Bank , so that the
ECB can support the Italian banks. But this can’t happen unless
the ECB is sure that it has a reliable partner in the Italian
state and that Italy will remain as fiscally stable as possible.  Italians understand this, and so the political crisis may
be a little easier to resolve than many think. Under the
pressure of markets, Italian parties are likely to close ranks
behind another technical prime minister, just as they did in
November 2011 behind Monti. They will nominate someone familiar
with financial issues -- some high official at the  Bank of
Italy , or maybe even Monti himself. They will call it an
“institutional government” and ask it to make the political
system more honest and functional, reining in the anger and
recrimination of the citizens.  It’s a strange way to run a country -- but don’t write off
Italy.  (Carlo Bastasin, an Italian economist, is a visiting fellow
in global economy and development and foreign policy at the
 Brookings Institution . The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writers of this article:
Carlo Bastasin at  http://www.brookings.edu/experts/bastasinc .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 