-- Ithaca Energy Buys Valiant for $308 Million in Cash, Shares
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-03-01T16:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/ithaca-energy-buys-valiant-for-308-million-in-cash-shares-1-.html
Ithaca Energy Inc. (IAE)  offered to buy
 Valiant Petroleum Plc (VPP)  for 203 million pounds ($308 million) in
cash and shares to double the North Sea oil explorer’s
production.  Valiant owners will receive 307 pence in cash and 1.33
shares in Calgary-based Ithaca for each Valiant share, the
companies said in a statement in London today. The total
represents a 37 percent premium to Woking, U.K.-based Valiant’s
142 million-pound market value yesterday.  The deal marks a consolidation of North Sea explorers as
they focus on expanding the search for oil and extending the
life of fields after Exxon Mobil Corp. and BP Plc sold assets in
the region. The deal will create an operator with 74 million
barrels of reserves and will more than double Ithaca’s current
production to 27,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day.  “The combined assets of the two groups have a strong
strategic fit, with the acquisition materially increasing and
broadening Ithaca’s producing asset base and reserves
portfolio,” said Jack Lee, Ithaca’s non-executive chairman, in
the statement.  Ithaca fell 8.8 percent to 117 pence in  London . Valiant
surged 31 percent to 455 pence.  The cash portion of the acquisition will be funded with a
loan provided by  Bank of America  Corp.,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and  Bank
of Nova Scotia (BNS) , as well as existing cash, Ithaca said.  Valiant said in September it was reviewing whether to sell
or break up the company to boost returns for shareholders.
Ithaca itself broke off talks with potential buyers in May.  The boards of both companies recommend the merger. While
Ithaca shareholders don’t need to vote on the deal, the board
said it has received letters of support from owners.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is a financial adviser to Valiant on the
deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  