-- Liverpool’s Rodgers Expects Luis Suarez to Stay: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-03-01T06:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/liverpool-s-rodgers-expects-luis-suarez-to-stay-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet links.  Suarez to Stay  Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  said he expects  Luis Suarez  to stay at the club even if the Reds fail to qualify for
next season’s  Champions League  after receiving assurances from
the Uruguay forward’s agent, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  “I had a great conversation with his agent a couple of
weeks ago,” the Telegraph cited Rodgers as saying. “He came in
and rolled it out that he was so happy here and he was keen over
the next couple of years for the club to progress.”  Sanchez Swoop?  Manchester City revived its interest in signing Barcelona
winger  Alexis Sanchez , who’s no longer a regular starter for the
Catalan club, the  Daily Mirror reported .  City tried to buy the Chile international, who also has
been linked with a move to Liverpool, in 2011, the Mirror added.  City Wants Mangala  City added Porto defender Eliaquim Mangala, who would cost
17.5 million pounds ($26.5 million), to its list of offseason
transfer targets, the  Daily Mail reported .  The Premier League champion wants five new players as it
seeks to overhaul its squad with Edin Dzeko and Samir Nasri
among those likely to leave, the Mail said. Mangala, 22, also
has been watched by  Manchester United , Bayern Munich and AC
Milan in recent months, the newspaper added.  Tottenham Targets  Tottenham will listen to offers for Emmanuel Adebayor at
the end of the season after manager Andre Villas-Boas placed
Brazil forward Leandro Damiao and Portugal’s Eder at the top of
his list of striker targets, the  Independent reported .  Spurs have tried three times to sign Damiao from Brazilian
club Internacional, while Villas-Boas previously worked with
Eder when he was was in charge of Portuguese team Academica
during the 2009-10 season, the newspaper added.  Director’s Role  Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  wants to become a
director at the club when he eventually retires from management,
the  Sun reported .  “There’s no getting rid of me,” the newspaper cited
Ferguson, 71, as telling twentyfour7 Football magazine. “I will
probably become a director.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  