-- J.C. Penney Cash Drain Imperils Makeover Plan: Corporate Finance
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2013-03-01T16:25:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/j-c-penney-cash-drain-imperils-makeover-plan-corporate-finance.html
J.C. Penney Co. ’s plan to fund its
turnaround with  cash from operations  is in jeopardy as the
department store chain’s biggest quarterly loss since 2004
boosts the chances it will need alternative sources of capital.  While Chief Financial Officer  Ken Hannah  said this week
that the  retailer  was committed to financing its plan to make
its stores more attractive with operating cash, a 32 percent
decline in the fourth quarter from a year earlier helped drag
its balance below a $1 billion target. That may lead Plano,
Texas-based J.C. Penney to tap a $1.85 billion credit facility
or issue debt or preferred shares, according to bond-research
firm CreditSights Inc.  Creditors are fleeing J.C. Penney, whose debt rating
Standard & Poor’s cut yesterday to a grade that indicates
vulnerability to nonpayment, as Chief Executive Officer  Ron Johnson  struggles to shift course after reporting the lowest
annual sales in more than two decades. Deteriorating operations
have left the retailer with credit-default swaps that have
converged with those linked to Sears Holdings Corp. and about a
year before it runs out of cash at its current burn rate.  “It’s not profitable, and there’s not much in the way of
near-term impetus that’s going to turn that around,”  James Goldstein , a senior analyst at CreditSights in New York who
rates J.C. Penney bonds “underperform,” said in a telephone
interview. “That means they’ll likely plug the hole with some
sort of financing.”  ‘Interim Borrowing’  The company, which spent $810 million on capital
expenditures in the fiscal year ended Feb. 2, has adjusted cash
of about $850 million, Hannah said on a Feb. 27 conference call
to discuss fourth-quarter earnings. That means it can operate
without financing for about 12 months, based on a free  cash flow 
deficit of $822 million for the past year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Daphne Avila , a J.C. Penney spokeswoman, said the company
doesn’t comment on analyst speculation.  “There might need to be some interim borrowing under the
credit facility as cash should not really be allowed to go too
much lower than it is now,” said  Carol Levenson , director of
research at Chicago-based Gimme Credit LLC. Gimme Credit rates
J.C. Penney’s debt “deteriorating.”  Bonds Fall  J.C. Penney’s $400 million of 5.65 percent, senior
unsecured bonds due June 2020, which traded as high as 102 cents
on the dollar a year ago, dropped to a record-low 80.75 at 10:44
a.m. in New York, giving it a yield of 9.37 percent, according
to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  Credit-default swaps linked to the retailer’s debt have
surged 93 basis points since it reported earnings to 1,005 basis
points at 11:03 a.m. The contracts, which pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt, were as low as 308 a year ago and
compare with 932 basis points for swaps linked to Sears, the
only other U.S. department-store chain burning cash. A basis
point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Johnson, the former Apple Inc. retail chief who joined as
CEO in November 2011, has reversed his everyday low pricing
strategy in recent months by adding sales, promotions and new
price displays. Johnson has said his transformation of the firm,
presented to investors in January 2012, would take four years.  Joe Fresh  J.C. Penney seeks to attract more fashion-conscious
consumers by partnering with Canadian retailer Joe Fresh and
making shop-in-shops with designers such as Nanette Lepore and
Marchesa’s  Georgina Chapman .  Investor confidence is waning after the company lost $4.3
billion in sales last year, bringing revenue to $13 billion, the
lowest since at least 1987. Its  net loss  in the quarter ended
Feb. 2 widened to $552 million from $87 million a year earlier.  S&P responded by lowering J.C. Penney’s ratings to CCC+
with a negative outlook, calling the company’s liquidity
position “less than adequate” based on the view that it “will
need to draw substantially on its revolver to fund operations,
or seek additional financing to continue its transformation.”  The company is graded B3 by Moody’s Investors Service, one
level higher than S&P. Sears has the same ratings.  J.C. Penney’s market value has declined almost $3 billion
since Johnson, recruited by its largest shareholder  Bill Ackman ,
took the helm.  Lender Permission  “We’ve never seen retailing results as bad as those
presented by J.C. Penney,” Levenson wrote in a report Feb. 27.
“Penney cannot go through another year like the last one
without raising cash and/or drawing down its facility, which
would structurally subordinate existing bondholders.”  The company reported its results after receiving clearance
from lenders to sell billions of dollars in stock and debt if
needed. Bank lenders also increased a credit line to $1.85
billion and gave the company permission to expand it to as much
as $2.25 billion, according to a Feb. 12 regulatory filing.  “Our intentions are to fund this transformation out of our
cash from operations,” said Hannah, who had forecast in
November that the company would have $1 billion of cash at year-
end. “We are committed to this strategy.”  Analysts from Barclays Plc to JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Morningstar Inc. said they were skeptical the company would
refrain from tapping alternative sources of funds. J.C. Penney’s
access to short-term capital, which includes the revolver and
cash, is about $3 billion, Hannah said.  ‘Bleeds Cash’  “Maybe increasing the availability on their revolver is
meant to allay investors’ concerns on their liquidity position,
but personally, it’s just exacerbated mine,”  Joscelyn MacKay , a
credit analyst at Chicago-based Morningstar, said in a telephone
interview. “They’re reaching out for more credit on an undrawn
credit facility -- that tells me that they’re padding their
pillows for what could be a really hard landing.”  The retailer may burn through as much as $500 million of
cash in the first quarter,  Matthew Boss , an analyst at JPMorgan
in New York with a neutral rating on the shares, wrote in a Feb.
27 note. “Despite a continued intention to ‘self-fund’ the
transformation, a draw-down of the revolver appears increasingly
likely,” he said.  J.C. Penney may use its credit facility by the second
quarter, which may be a catalyst for boosting the cost of
insuring the company’s debts against default, according to  Hale Holden , a credit analyst at Barclays. Holden rated J.C. Penney
“underweight” in a Feb. 27 report.  “There’s quite a bit of capacity on the revolver,” said
CreditSights’s Goldstein, who estimated the cost to issue
second-lien bonds would probably exceed 8 percent. “The concern
over the longer term is that if your business bleeds cash, you
get into a cycle where you’re living off the revolver, and
that’s certainly not a long-term viable solution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Mead  in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  