-- J.C. Penney CEO Sought to ‘Pull Off Martha,’ E-Mail Shows
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-03-02T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/j-c-penney-ceo-testifies-in-macy-s-suit-over-martha-stewart.html
 Ron Johnson,  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) ’s
chief executive officer, said he wanted to sell Martha Stewart-
branded goods to help transform the retailer’s business, and he
needed Stewart to change her agreement with Macy’s Inc.  “I need to pull off Martha,” Johnson wrote in an August
2011 e-mail to a J.C. Penney executive shown by lawyers
yesterday at a nonjury trial in  New York  State Supreme Court in
 Manhattan . “She wants to do it. I need to propose a deal so she
can go to” Macy’s Chairman  Terry Lundgren  “and break their
agreement. That is the only thing in the way of success at this
point.”  The e-mail was shown as Johnson testified at the trial over
Macy’s lawsuits against  Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc. (MSO)  and
J.C. Penney.  Macy’s sued New York-based Martha Stewart Living in January
2012 to stop it from going ahead with a sales agreement with
J.C. Penney, claiming it had the exclusive right to sell
Stewart-branded items in categories including bedding and
cookware. Macy’s sued Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney about three
months later.  Johnson is set to return to the stand March 4. Stewart, her
company’s chief creative officer and non-executive chairman, is
scheduled to testify March 5 at the trial presided over by
Justice Jeffrey K. Oing. Lundgren testified earlier in the week.  ‘Do Better’  Johnson testified yesterday that while J.C. Penney was
doing “fine” when he was hired in June 2011, he believed it
“could do better” and that he had a “mandate to transform”
the company with a new strategy.  A centerpiece of his plan was to overhaul Penney’s home
department with brands like  Martha Stewart , he said. The
department had comprised about 20 percent of Penney’s sales over
the last decade yet had fallen to about 15 percent when he was
hired and continued to drop over the past year, he said.  “Martha Stewart’s influence on home was greater than any
one designer in the apparel industry,” Johnson said. “I
thought our middle class customers would be very responsive to
Martha Stewart.”  J.C. Penney in December 2011  acquired  a 17 percent stake in
Martha Stewart Living for $38.5 million as the department-store
chain sought to revive sales with new mini-stores.  Sales Drop  Sales for J.C. Penney, the fourth-biggest U.S. department-
store chain, dropped by more than $4 billion in its latest
fiscal year, marking its  lowest annual revenue  since at least
1987.  Lawyers for Cincinnati-based Macy’s have argued that J.C.
Penney is trying to “reap the rewards” of its work with the
Martha Stewart Living brand, which it says it rebuilt after
Stewart’s release from prison in 2005, when her products were
being sold at Kmart.  Martha Stewart Living has defended its agreement with J.C.
Penney, accusing Macy’s of breach of contract and saying the
retailer stocked and priced Martha Stewart products in a manner
that favors private-label brands. Martha Stewart Living also
said Macy’s couldn’t have exercised a five-year renewal option
in January 2012 because of the breach.  Martha Stewart Living has argued that its original 2006
contract with Macy’s allows it to design and sell products
within the exclusive categories as long as they are sold through
the Internet, television or at any retail store branded with the
Martha Stewart Living name that’s operated by the company or its
affiliates or “prominently” features the brand, according to
court filings in the case.  ‘An Opportunity’  Johnson testified that he first considered a partnership
with Stewart when he read that her company had hired  Blackstone
Group LP (BX)  in May 2011 to explore strategic alternatives.  “I thought, ‘Martha must not be performing well and there
might be an opportunity to do something together,’” Johnson
said. He was the first person from J.C. Penney to meet with
Stewart, and he talked to her in person two to three times
before the companies became formally engaged, he said.  Johnson said J.C. Penney analyzed the possibility of
acquiring all of Martha Stewart Living after Blackstone asked
the company to come up with multiple proposals before deciding
on the offer that was made.  Johnson said that while he didn’t read Macy’s contract with
Martha Stewart Living, he knew there would have to be a
“change” in that relationship for J.C. Penney to sell certain
types of goods, such as bedding and kitchenware.  Home Department  In other e-mails from August 2011 shown by Macy’s lawyers,
Johnson wrote to a J.C. Penney board member that Stewart “could
be the foundation of a reinvented” home department.  “Macy’s deal is key,” Johnson wrote in the e-mail. “We
need to find a way to break renewal right in spring 2012.”  In another e-mail shown by Macy’s lawyers from January
2012, Johnson told former J.C. Penney President  Michael Francis 
that “the best way to stop Macy’s from renewing is to make our
offensive so strong that they simply pick up their toys and go
home.”  Yet when asked whether he wanted Martha Stewart Living to
breach its contract, Johnson replied “absolutely not,” and
added that he hoped Stewart and Macy’s could “work something
out.”  “Our dream was to open our own store but the first
priority was to amend the agreement with Macy’s,” Johnson said.  Johnson said he recommended that Stewart herself talk to
Lundgren before signing the agreement but that she ultimately
decided to tell him the night before the pact was announced.  Lundgren testified that he was “shocked and blown away”
when Stewart called him to inform him. He said he hung up on her
and hasn’t spoken to her since.  The cases are  Macy’s Inc. (M)  v. Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc., 650197/2012, and Macy’s Inc. v. J.C. Penney
Corp., 652861/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  