-- Senators Call Justice Department Response on HSBC Fine ‘Evasive’
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-03-02T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/justice-department-defends-prosecution-record-against-big-banks.html
Two U.S. senators said a  Department
of Justice  response to their criticism that it didn’t criminally
prosecute  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  for  money laundering  was
“aggressively evasive.”  Senators  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat, and Chuck Grassley, a Republican from  Iowa , sent the Justice Department a
letter on Jan. 29 asking whether the federal government avoids
prosecuting banks that they described as “too big to jail.”  Judith C. Appelbaum, principal deputy assistant attorney
general, defended what she called the department’s “vigorous
enforcement against wrongdoing” in a letter to Brown dated Feb.
27. Federal prosecutors have to follow internal rules to assess
whether to pursue a criminal case, and they are willing to do so
against a corporation of any size, she wrote.  The Justice Department’s response was “aggressively
evasive,” Brown and Grassley said in a statement yesterday.
“We’ve conveyed our dissatisfaction, so the  Justice Department 
is aware that it still owes us a complete response.”  The Justice Department can get concessions from a
settlement that a trial couldn’t achieve, including a
requirement that a company cooperate with a continuing criminal
investigation, according to the letter.  In deciding whether to take a case to trial, prosecutors
also have to weigh fallout on “others who were not personally
culpable,” including impact on the public.  None ‘Immune’  “No corporate entity, no matter how large, is immune from
prosecution,” Appelbaum said in the letter to Brown. She also
said the Justice Department “has not hesitated to criminally
prosecute major corporations and top executives when we have the
evidence, no matter what the crime.”  London-based HSBC,  Europe ’s biggest bank, settled a probe
led by the Justice Department and banking regulators by paying a
$1.9 billion fine and agreeing to fix flaws in their money-
laundering controls. The company’s 2012 pretax profit will be
$23.5 billion when it reports earnings on March 4, according to
the median estimate of 26 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Functionally, HSBC has quite literally purchased a get-
out-of-jail-free card for its employees for the price of $1.92
billion,” Grassley said in a Dec. 13 letter to Attorney General
Eric Holder.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  