-- King Closer to Winning BOE Stimulus Debate After Factory Slump
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-03-02T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/king-closer-to-winning-boe-stimulus-debate-after-factory-slump.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
may be closer to getting his way on stimulus after an unexpected
slump in manufacturing raised the prospect of more bond
purchases next week.  Citigroup Inc., ING Bank NV and BNP Paribas SA are among
banks predicting a 25 billion-pound ($37.6 billion) increase in
 quantitative easing  on March 7. The median of 39 economists is
for the target to remain at 375 billion pounds, with 11
forecasting an increase, according to a Bloomberg News  survey .
That’s the biggest split among economists since July.  King and two other policy makers were defeated in a push
for more bond purchases last month as the Monetary Policy
Committee discussed measures including  interest-rate cuts  and
policies to boost credit. Their cautious outlook for the economy
was borne out yesterday by  Markit Economics ’  factory index ,
which fell to a four-month low as demand plunged.  “Most of the activity indicators point to an economy which
is, at best, flat-lining,” said  Andrew Goodwin , an economist at
the Ernst and Young Item Club in  London . “Having indicated
their readiness to act, it is time for the MPC to deliver.”  All 52 economists in a separate survey say the MPC will
leave its  key interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent. The
MPC will begin its meeting on March 6 and announce its decisions
at noon the following day. It comes amid a continuing debate
sparked by incoming BOE Governor  Mark Carney  about tools such as
forward guidance and the flexibility of inflation targeting.  Fisher’s Proposal  Paul Fisher , one of the MPC members who voted for more QE
in February, proposed this week a more prolonged period of asset
purchases at a slower pace. His program, guided by the economic
outlook, has echoes of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s policy of
linking stimulus to thresholds. Fisher also said the BOE’s remit
is flexible enough to allow officials to continue to provide
stimulus even with inflation above their target.  Markit’s manufacturing index dropped to 47.9 in February
from 50.5 in January, where a reading below 50 indicates
contraction. A services index next Tuesday may fall to 51 from
51.5, economists said in a survey.  The pound fell against the dollar after the factory data,
weakening through $1.50 for the first time since July 13, 2010.  “The MPC will vote to restart QE at the March meeting --
or if not then, soon after -- unless the upcoming services PMI
rises surprisingly sharply,” said  Michael Saunders , an
economist at Citigroup in London. “QE’s effectiveness would be
enhanced if the MPC also indicate that they intend to expand QE
further unless the economy improves markedly.”  Still, some economists are skeptical that the BOE will
expand the bond-purchase program next week.  “The MPC seems to be divided whether the stimulus should
come from more gilt purchases or measures aimed at a specific
target,” said Joost Beaumont, an economist at  ABN Amro  in
Amsterdam. “We think a majority of the MPC is in favor of the
latter, given doubts about the effectiveness of more gilt
purchases.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  