-- Kings to Get Rival Bid, Stay in Sacramento, City’s Mayor Says
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-03-01T05:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/kings-to-get-rival-bid-stay-in-sacramento-city-s-mayor-says.html
Mark Mastrov, the founder of 24 Hour
Fitness Worldwide Inc., will submit a bid to the  National
Basketball Association  today to buy the Kings and keep the
franchise in Sacramento, the city’s Mayor  Kevin Johnson  said.  Ronald Burkle, managing party of Yucaipa Cos LLC, will lead
an effort to develop a new entertainment and sports complex at
the Downtown Plaza Mall in the California capital, Johnson said
in his State of the City speech last night.  “We’re playing to win when it comes to keeping the Kings,
creating jobs and transforming our downtown,” Johnson said.  A group headed by Valiant Capital Management founder Chris Hansen that includes Microsoft Corp. Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Ballmer  has filed to relocate the Kings to Seattle.
Hansen’s group reached an agreement on Jan. 21 with the Maloof
family, which has owned the Kings since 1999, that puts the
team’s value at $525 million.  Approval from the NBA board of governors is required to
complete any sale or relocation of a franchise. The board will
meet April 18 in  New York , where Johnson will make a
presentation.  The Seattle group’s offer would be the highest sale price
for an NBA team, surpassing the $450 million paid for the  Golden
State Warriors  in 2010. Terms of the Mastrov group’s bid weren’t
disclosed last night.  The sports complex in downtown Sacramento would anchor an
economic development and revitalization effort, Johnson said.
Burkle, co-owner of the National Hockey League’s Pittsburgh
Penguins, aided in the development of Pittsburgh’s Consol Energy
Center.  “We have an opportunity to transform downtown into a
vibrant hub of economic and cultural activity that will create
jobs and generate a positive economic impact for years to
come,” Burkle said in a statement. “ Sacramento  has proven time
and time again to be a great NBA market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  