-- Komatsu Bets on Abe Stimulus to Lift Construction Gear Demand
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2013-03-01T06:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/komatsu-bets-on-abe-stimulus-to-lift-construction-gear-demand.html
Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , the world’s second-
biggest construction equipment maker, expects Japanese Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s economic spending policy will spur local
demand, Chief Executive Officer designate Tetsuji Ohashi said.  “Abenomics, combined with Japan’s effort to rebuild the
earthquake-hit areas, will fuel domestic demand,” Ohashi, who
assumes charge on April 1, said in an interview at Komatsu’s
Tokyo headquarters. “This places our industry in a strong
position.”  Abe, who took office in December, plans to spend 10.3
trillion yen ($111 billion), including about 3.8 trillion yen
for disaster prevention and reconstruction, to stimulate an
economy where construction spending has almost halved in the
past 20 years. The extra budget spending is aimed at boosting
gross domestic product by 2 percentage points and creating about
600,000 jobs, the government said Jan. 11.  Japan , Komatsu’s biggest market, is rebuilding areas that
were wrecked by the earthquake and tsunami two years ago. Demand
for construction equipment in Japan will probably increase about
10 percent in the financial year starting April 1, Ohashi said.  Komatsu fell as much as 1.4 percent to 2,306 yen and traded
at 2,315 yen as of 2:26 p.m. in Tokyo, paring its gain this year
to 6 percent. Peoria, Illinois-based Caterpillar Inc., Komatsu’s
bigger rival, gained 3.1 percent this year.  Bulldozers, Dump Trucks  Bulldozers and dump trucks will be needed to prepare homes
for those moving inland from coastal areas to avoid any future
tsunami, Ohashi said. Excavators have been mostly used to the
clear the debris, he said.  Komatsu, which gets 17 percent of its sales in Japan,
intends to defend its home market and focus on faster growing
economies in Asia to challenge  Caterpillar (CAT) , Ohashi said.
Caterpillar’s revenue is about triple that of Komatsu because of
its domination in the west.  “In North America, Caterpillar is a big fish as it’s their
home turf,” Ohashi said. “We should take the lead in Asia
instead.”  Kunio Noji, the current CEO, will become chairman from
April. Komatsu named Ohashi, 58, as his successor, expecting his
international experience will help Komatsu’s global expansion,
Noji said. Ohashi, who joined the company in 1977, spent about
eight years in the U.K., where he helped build a plant. He was
appointed head of Komatsu America Corp. in 2004.  The yen’s slide to almost a three-year low against the
dollar is benefiting Komatsu. The company’s operating profit may
increase by about 60 billion yen in the year starting April 1
should the yen stay at 88, budgeted for the current quarter,
Ohashi said. The yen weakened to as low as 94.46 on Feb. 11, the
lowest since May 2010, and traded at 92.57 as of 10:52 p.m. in
 Tokyo .  Komatsu has no plan to cut product prices because of the
weak yen to protect margins, Ohashi said. A decline of 1 yen
against the dollar will boost operating profit by 1.4 billion
yen for the current quarter, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
Ichiro Suzuki in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  