-- N.Y.-N.J. Sandy Aid May Drop in Sequester, Menendez Says
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-03-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/n-y-n-j-sandy-aid-may-drop-in-sequester-menendez-says.html
Across-the-board federal spending
cuts that began yesterday may block as much as $2.5 billion in
 Hurricane Sandy  relief for New York and  New Jersey , according to
the Garden State’s junior U.S. senator.  About $1 billion may be taken from Federal Emergency
Management Agency disaster-relief funds, the main source for
FEMA help for individuals and communities, said Paul Brubaker, a
spokesman for Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat.
Another $1.5 billion may be held out of block grants and
transportation funding, Brubaker said.  “The effects of sequestration will be seen in various ways
where the federal government has a role,” Brubaker said by
telephone yesterday. “This is going to be a snowball effect.”  President  Barack Obama  late yesterday ordered the start of
$85 billion in government spending reductions through Sept. 30,
when the federal fiscal year ends, the first cuts that will
reach $1.2 trillion over nine years. About $60 billion in Sandy
aid was passed by Congress this year, mainly to help the October
storm’s victims in New York, New Jersey and  Connecticut .  As recently as this week, Menendez had told reporters that
Sandy aid appeared to be safe from the sequestration process
that mandates the cuts because it was contained in an emergency
appropriations package.  “I believe -- I believe -- that what we did in Sandy, as
an emergency package, will be separated from sequester,” he
said Feb. 24 at a church in Trenton.  White House  The White House projected that $2.5 billion may be in
jeopardy from sequestration, while it wasn’t immediately clear
whether the effects would kick in right away or over time,
Brubaker said. About $9 billion in flood insurance awards are
protected, he said.  U.S. Representative Bill Pascrell Jr., a New Jersey
Democrat, told Sandy-affected homeowners in Moonachie on Feb. 25
to expect a “fiscal hurricane” should sequestration begin. He
said as much as $3 billion in Sandy relief would be suspended.  “This manufactured fiscal disaster will add insult to
injury to the many families and businesses that are still
hurting across the region,” Pascrell said.  The $3 billion estimate came from testimony before the
Senate Appropriations Committee Feb. 14 by  Shaun Donovan ,
secretary of Housing and Urban Development, according to a
statement from Thomas Pietrykoski, a Pascrell spokesman.  The Star Ledger of New Jersey was first to report the
latest estimate of sequestration cuts.  Jeff Sagnip Hollendonner, a spokesman for U.S.
Representative  Chris Smith , a Republican, didn’t respond to a
message left at his office for comment on aid cuts after regular
hours. Maria Comella,  Michael Drewniak  and  Kevin Roberts , press
aides for Republican New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , didn’t
respond to e-mailed requests for comment.  Representatives in the governor’s office in Albany and at
New York City Hall didn’t respond to messages left seeking
comment on the cuts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton  at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  