-- Natural Gas May Climb as Cold Weather Spurs Demand, Survey Shows
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-03-01T12:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/natural-gas-may-climb-as-cold-weather-spurs-demand-survey-shows.html
Natural gas futures may advance next
week as below-normal eastern U.S. temperatures spur demand for
the heating fuel, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Six of 11 analysts, or 55 percent, forecast that gas
futures will rise on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  through
March 8. Four, or 36 percent, said futures will fall and one
predicted that prices will stay the same. Last week, 58 percent
of participants said gas prices would decline.  Below-normal temperatures in the eastern half of the U.S.
next week will shift to the central states over the next 11 to
15 days, according to MDA Weather Services. The Gaithersburg,
Maryland-based forecaster said while the outlook has moderated
there is still a cold pattern in the middle of the continent.  “We are going to see some areas that are going to be very
cold,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at Price Futures
Group in  Chicago . “My feeling is demand is still going to be
strong even with the lower weather forecast. The market is
acting like it wants to hold up.”  Natural gas futures jumped 19.5 cents, or 5.9 percent, to
$3.486 per million British thermal units during the first four
days of this week in New York, reaching the highest settlement
price since Jan. 23. The futures, headed for their biggest
weekly gain since Jan. 18, are up 38 percent from a year ago.  Gas futures pushed higher even as  weather forecasts 
moderated this week, creating a “pretty good technical bottom”
to advance further next week, Flynn said.  Below Normal  The low temperature in Chicago on March 13 will be 19
degrees Fahrenheit (minus 7 Celsius), 11 below normal, and
 Dallas  may be 5 lower than the usual reading at 42 degrees,
according to AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,  Pennsylvania .  About 50 percent of U.S. households use gas for heating,
according to data from the Energy Information Administration,
the Energy Department’s statistical division.  Gas stockpiles  fell by 171 billion cubic feet to 2.229
trillion in the week ended Feb. 22, above the five-year average
drop of 118 billion for the period, an EIA report yesterday
showed.  Analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg showed a decline
of 170 billion.  A  supply surplus  to the five-year average for last week
narrowed to 16 percent from 17.7 percent the previous week. A
 deficit  versus year-earlier levels widened to 12.1 percent from
9.2 percent.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 50 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex natural-gas futures will
probably rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This
week’s results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  6       4     1  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  