-- News Corp., Disney Said Discussing Control of Hulu Site
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-03-02T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/news-corp-disney-said-discussing-control-of-hulu-site.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  are
in talks that may lead to one of the partners in the  Hulu .com
video website buying out the other, two people with knowledge of
the situation said.  In that scenario, an agreement would hand control of Hulu
to either News Corp. or Disney, said the people, who sought
anonymity because the talks are private. The companies, which
each own about a one-third stake, are also discussing selling
Hulu or changing the business model, they said.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
NBC would remain a minority investor.  Disney prefers an advertising-focused business model, while
News Corp. would like Hulu to rely on subscriptions, they said.
Hulu offers both a limited free service and an expanded $8 a
month offering called Hulu Plus. Both the free and subscription
offerings include commercials.  The talks are in their early stages and a deal isn’t
guaranteed, the people said. The Wall Street Journal reported
the talks yesterday.  Comcast is barred from an operational or board role due to
an agreement with federal regulators related to approval of its
NBC Universal acquisition in January 2011. The company, based in
Philadelphia, added 0.6 percent to $40.03 yesterday in New York.
Disney, based in Burbank, California,  gained  1.4 percent to
$55.33 and New York-based News Corp. rose 1.2 percent to $29.14.  CEO Departs  The discussions follow a decision by Hulu’s co-founder and
chief executive officer,  Jason Kilar , to step down by the end of
March. Kilar received about $40 million from the sale of Hulu
stock back to the company in October, people told Bloomberg at
the time. Hulu repurchased a 10 percent stake held by Providence
Equity Partners Inc. for $200 million.  Formed by NBC and Fox, Hulu allowed viewers to watch shows
online with fewer commercials. Disney became an investor in
April 2009. Hulu Plus, started in 2010, provides access to a
bigger library of shows and the ability to watch programs on
mobile devices, Web-connected TV sets and video-game consoles.  Hulu said in December that 2012 revenue climbed 65 percent
to about $695 million as subscribers more than doubled to 3
million. The company lags behind  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ’s more than 30
million worldwide subscribers, and faces emerging competition
from  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and the new Redbox Instant service offered
by  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR)   The U.S. advertising market for online video grew 47
percent to $2.93 billion in 2012, according to New York-based
eMarketer. This year marketers are expected to spend $4.14
billion, the researcher said.  Online viewing in the U.S. continues to grow. More than 30
percent of the U.S. watched TV online in 2012, up from 27
percent a year ago and 22 percent in 2010, eMarketer said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  