-- Norway Businesses Bemoan Push to Tighten Bank Capital Rules
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2013-03-01T16:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/norway-businesses-bemoans-push-to-tighten-bank-capital-rules.html
Norwegian businesses will be hurt by
the government’s plans to introduce stricter bank capital rules
and tighten risks for mortgage lending, the country’s biggest
employers’ group says.  Norway’s government wants to set stricter mortgage lending
standards than those enforced elsewhere to fend off a property
bubble as  house prices  and private debt surge to record levels.
The country is also planning other measures to tighten capital
standards and curb covered bond lending, reducing the capital
available for banks to lend.  “It seems like this government wants to introduce new
banking regulation before everybody else and we fear that that
will lead to a lowering of banks’ ability to lend in terms of
volumes,” Dag Aarnes, a director at the Confederation of
Norwegian Enterprise, or NHO, said today in an interview in
Oslo. “It’s relatively naive to think that this would not
affect the corporate lending sector.”  Western Europe’s largest crude exporter has withstood a
euro area recession as a boom in its petroleum sector has
boosted labor demand and pushes up wages. Near record-low
 borrowing costs  have encouraged private borrowing with  household
debt  estimated to grow to more than 200 percent of disposable
income this year. House prices, which rose an annual 8.5 percent
last month, have surged almost 30 percent since 2008 and almost
doubled in the past decade.  The krone was little changed at 7.4918 per euro as of 5:07
p.m. in Oslo.  Norges Bank  The government will do everything in its power to prevent
another bank crisis, Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen said
last month at a seminar in Oslo. His administration will present
proposals for higher  capital requirements , including tougher
rules on mortgage risk weights, to parliament in the first half
with a view to getting the bill passed after July, he said.  Norway’s central bank said today in a letter to the  Finance
Ministry  that it backs a proposal to limit covered bond issuance
to promote financial stability.  “Norges Bank endorses the Financial Supervisory Authority
and Finance Ministry’s view that rules to limit the use of
covered bonds as a means of financing mortgages should be
considered,” central bank Governor Oeystein Olsen said in a
letter dated Feb. 28 and published on the bank’s website.  The ministry has asked the country’s financial regulator to
consider almost tripling risk weights on  mortgage loans  to 35
percent. Risk weights determine how much capital a bank must set
aside to guard against potential losses. Authorities have also
commissioned a review into whether to curb covered bond issuance
after it surged eight-fold since 2007.  The Fear  “We have had some good growth in the Norwegian economy
over the past two to three years so normally we would have
expected to see investments in the mainland economic sector to
have growth,” Aarnes said. “That’s not happening and we fear
that the banks’ reduced ability to lend is an important
factor.”  Norwegian companies “are very bank-dependent unlike
American and other European businesses who are more inclined to
borrow straight in the market,” Aarnes said. “The danger is
that these financial issues increase our dependency on big
companies and the oil sector.”   Growth in the mainland economy , which excludes oil, gas
and shipping, is estimated to slow to 3 percent in 2013 from
3.75 percent last year, according to central bank forecasts.  Norway ’s manufacturing industry unexpectedly shrank last
month to the lowest level since June as orders slumped, a survey
by  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  showed today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  