-- NYC Midtown Air-Rights Sales May Raise Funds for Transit
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-03-01T21:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/nyc-midtown-air-rights-sales-may-raise-funds-for-transit.html
(Corrects meter conversion in third paragraph.)  New York  City’s plan to encourage
taller skyscrapers around Grand Central Terminal may raise about
$750 million to improve access to mass transit in the
neighborhood through the sale of air rights to developers.  The city would sell so-called district improvement bonuses
for $250 per square foot of floor space to developers who would
then be allowed to exceed building-height limits, according to a
proposal by the  Department of City Planning . The money would go
to the  Metropolitan Transportation Authority  to fund staircases,
escalators and other improvements to subway stations in the area
near the East 42nd Street rail hub.  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  is pushing for zoning changes to
the east midtown neighborhood, which has some of the most
expensive real estate in the city. The plan would allow for
towers taller than the 1,046-foot (319-meter)  Chrysler Building ,
which is a block east of Grand Central. New skyscrapers are
needed to keep New York competitive with London, Shanghai and
other cities that have built more modern high-rises in recent
years, according to the mayor, who is founder and majority owner
of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  “What we hope this will do is lead to Midtown staying
Midtown, as the strong commercial core of the region,” Frank
Ruchala, a project manager for the city planning department,
said last night after a presentation to three affected community
boards. “The overall area will be maintained as a commercial
district, there will be a handful of new buildings in the area,
and through those new buildings there will be improvements to
the public realm.”  Pedestrian Plaza  The $750 million is based on estimates by the department of
how much could be generated over 20 years. The value of the air
rights was determined for the city by Landauer Valuation &
Advisory, a unit of commercial property brokerage Newmark Knight
Grubb Frank.  The funding is intended to help the neighborhood compensate
for the additional congestion bigger buildings would bring,
according to the plan. Along with transit improvements, some of
the money would go toward making Vanderbilt Avenue, a side
street just west of Grand Central and the adjacent MetLife
Building, into a pedestrian plaza.  Potential Landmarks  The planning department also released a list of 32 east
 midtown  buildings that are “potentially eligible” for landmark
protection. They include  SL Green Realty Corp. (SLG) ’s 125 Park Ave.,
also known as the Pershing Square Building, and the Graybar
Building;  Boston Properties Inc. (BXP) ’s 601 Lexington Ave., formerly
known as Citigroup Center; and Tishman Speyer Properties LP’s
MetLife Building.  In his  State of the City  message last month, Bloomberg said
the rezoning would allow for a “select” number of new
buildings, while preserving the district’s historic character.
Noting that Grand Central Terminal is a century old this year,
the mayor said, “It’s up to us to ensure that the area around
it remains a vital part of our city’s growth for the next 100
years.”  The city plans to start a six-month review process for the
rezoning next month, with the intent of having the changes in
place by the end of the year. At the same time, the Landmarks
Preservation Commission is expected to determine which buildings
should be protected.  Under the rezoning proposal, properties close to Grand
Central, between Madison and Lexington avenues, would be
entitled to acquire air rights to build towers as tall as about
900 feet -- about the size of 1  Bryant Park  without its spire.  Outside that main area, and including the west side of
Madison and the east side of Lexington between East 39th and
49th streets, towers of about 700 feet would be allowed. That’s
about the size of the former Bear Stearns building at 383
Madison Ave.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  