-- Obama Makes Cuts Personal in Strategy to Bend Congress
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-03-02T17:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/obama-appeals-to-public-to-pressure-republicans-to-bow-on-budget.html
President  Barack Obama  is putting
the emphasis on the personal consequences of U.S. spending cuts
that took effect yesterday as he counts on pressure from voters
to force Republicans into a compromise.  While acknowledging that most people won’t feel an
immediate impact from the across-the-board spending reductions
in government operations from airports to military bases, the
president warned yesterday of long-term damage to the economy.  “All of this will cause a ripple effect throughout our
economy,” Obama said at a news conference called a half-hour
after meeting with the top four leaders of Congress. “Layoffs
and pay cuts means that people have less money in their pockets,
and that means that they have less money to spend at local
businesses.”  Congress mandated $1.2 trillion in across-the-board
spending cuts spread over nine years as part of a 2011 deal to
increase the U.S. debt limit. They were designed to be so
onerous that Congress and the president wouldn’t let them occur.
During his 2012 presidential campaign, Obama promised that the
cuts, which he has described as a “meat cleaver approach,”
wouldn’t happen.  Last night, with the deadline at hand and no agreement on
an alternative, Obama issued the order putting the reductions
into effect -- $85 billion worth for the remaining seven months
of the current fiscal year.  Placing Blame  He also is escalating his campaign-style strategy to cast
blame on Republicans for the budget standoff, counting on public
pressure to sway his opponents.  “Unemployment will not go down as quickly as it would
have. And there are lives behind that,” Obama said. The
sequestration is “just dumb. And it’s going to hurt individual
people and it’s going to hurt the economy overall.”  As he spoke, Congress had already adjourned for weekend,
and he urged citizens to demand that Republicans accept what he
called a balanced budget package. He said that means one that
includes revisions to entitlement programs such as Medicare, as
well as more tax revenue without raising rates.  He said he believed “common sense” would prevail once
“members of Congress start hearing from constituents who are
being negatively impacted” by the sequestration.  Republicans placed ownership of the sequestration on the
president and his party for failing to come up with an
alternative proposal.  No Plan  “Even today there’s no plan from Senate Democrats or the
White House to replace the sequester,” House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said in an interview on NBC News’s
“Meet the Press” scheduled to air tomorrow, according to
excerpts released by NBC.  “Over the last 10 months, House Republicans have acted
twice to replace the sequester,” Boehner said in the interview,
referring measures passed by the chamber last year that expired
when the new Congress took office early this year.  Obama spoke shortly after a final meeting at the White
House with congressional leaders took place yesterday and hours
before he issued the order for federal departments and agencies
to begin cutting their budgets. The meeting, which lasted less
than an hour, was largely a formality, with little expectation
it would resolve the disagreements over how to replace the total
of $1.2 trillion in cuts that sequestration would implement over
nine years.  Tax Issue  The meeting’s principal participants -- which aside from
Boehner included Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, a
Kentucky Republican, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada
Democrat, and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, a California
Democrat -- emerged from the session with dueling statements
that didn’t deviate from the positions both sides have staked
out in recent weeks.  Boehner left the White House without giving any indication
that his party’s lawmakers would budge from their rejection of
raising tax revenue. Obama has called for replacing
sequestration with a combination of reduced spending and higher
revenue from closing loopholes in the tax code for the
wealthiest Americans.  “The president got his tax hikes on Jan. 1,” Boehner said
yesterday, referring to the deal at the end of last year that
let income-tax rates rise for top earners.  He said the House will vote next week on legislation to
fund the government for the rest of the fiscal year so Congress
won’t have to deal with the risk of a government shutdown while
negotiating an agreement on cutting the  deficit .  ‘Preventable’ Crisis  Obama, too, said he wanted to avoid a shutdown, describing
the other budget conflict as “preventable.”  “There’s no reason why we should have another crisis by
shutting the government down in addition to these arbitrary
spending cuts,” the president said.  The Democratic and Republican exchanges continued into the
weekend, with Obama saying in his weekly radio address that
“the longer these cuts remain in place, the greater the
damage.” Cathy McMorris Rodgers, the fourth-ranked Republican
in the House, said in her party’s response that “the American
people know full well that if they give this White House more
tax revenue, it will be spent.”  With no formal negotiations taking place between Obama and
  congressional leaders to avert sequestration, lawmakers have
  been telegraphing for weeks that they expected the automatic  spending cuts to go into effect, at least temporarily.  Obama’s Frustration  Obama, in expressing his frustration with Republicans
yesterday, made light of what he said was their inability to
work with him. He said he has asked himself what he could do to
make House lawmakers “not paint horns on my head.”  The showdown is occurring amid signs the world’s largest
economy is on stronger footing. And while private and government
economists have said the cuts may trim growth if they stay in
place, investors have signaled they aren’t concerned.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which rose 0.2 percent to
1,518.20 in New York yesterday, is up 6.4 percent this year.
Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded at a faster pace than
forecast in February, reaching the highest level since June
2011, the Institute for Supply Management’s factory index showed
yesterday. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final
index of  consumer sentiment  climbed to 77.6 last month from 73.8
in January, which may indicate a boost in consumer spending.  Administration Warning  The administration has warned that the spending cuts, split
between defense and domestic programs, threaten to eventually
send poor children home from pre-school, prolong airport
security wait times, reduce unemployment benefits and furlough
defense workers.  Obama, while saying the automatic cuts wouldn’t lead to a
“huge financial crisis,” also cautioned yesterday that
“people are going to be hurt.”  The president, who has been criticized by Republicans for
hyping the consequences, offered a montage of those lives --
Border Patrol agents “in the hot sun” getting a 10 percent pay
cut, troops deployed to  Afghanistan  worrying about their
children’s education on an Army base being disrupted, and
janitors who clean the Capitol building managing with less pay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  