-- Lockheed F-35 Flights Permitted to Resume, Pentagon Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-03-01T02:47:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/lockheed-f-35-flights-permitted-to-resume-pentagon-says.html
Flights of  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s
F-35 will be allowed to resume, the U.S. Defense Department
said, ending a suspension that grounded the fleet after the
discovery of a cracked engine blade in one of the stealth jets.  The affected engine had been subjected to “prolonged
exposure to high levels of heat and other operational stresses”
in testing, the Pentagon F-35 office said today in a statement.  Inspections of other F-35 fighter jets didn’t find any
other “cracks or signs of similar engine stress,” and no
redesign will be needed for the engines built by  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Pratt & Whitney unit, according to the
statement.  The F-35, the Pentagon’s most expensive weapons program,
has been plagued by a costly redesign, bulkhead cracks,
excessive weight and delays in software that have helped put it
seven years behind schedule. The cost of the program’s 2,443
aircraft is now estimated at $395.7 billion, a 70 percent
increase since 2001.  The flight suspension was ordered Feb. 22 after a routine
engine inspection revealed a crack in a turbine blade on a test
aircraft at Edwards Air Force Base in  California . The grounding
was undertaken as a “precautionary measure,” the Pentagon’s F-
35 office said that day in a statement.  The decision to end the suspension came after  Pratt &
Whitney  recommended that flight operations be restored.  Eighth Batch  Lockheed Martin, the world’s largest defense contractor,
earlier today received a $333.7 million down payment to buy
initial parts, components and materials for an eighth batch of
F-35s, as the Pentagon locked in the funds hours before
automatic U.S. budget cuts were set to take effect.  The action exempts the funds from the across-the-board
spending reductions known as sequestration that begin tomorrow,
because Pentagon officials have said contracts with obligated
dollars won’t be cut or terminated. The eighth contract calls
for 35 jets, including four aircraft for the U.K. and two for
 Norway , according to a Pentagon statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  