-- Old Mutual Plans Africa Acquisitions as Profit Beats Estimates
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-03-01T09:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/old-mutual-2012-profit-beats-estimates-on-sub-saharan-africa.html
Old Mutual Plc (OML) ,  Africa ’s biggest
insurer, set aside 5 billion rand ($550 million) for
acquisitions in fast-growing countries on the continent after
full-year profit beat analysts’ estimates.  The insurer, based in London, will spend the money on
majority and minority stakes in firms selling insurance and
savings products to Africa’s growing middle class over the next
three to five years, Chief Executive Officer Julian Roberts said
today on a call with reporters.  “We’re very committed to growing in Africa, growing
organically, growing by acquisitions, and it won’t necessarily
be by buying 100 percent of businesses,” he said.  Old Mutual paid 1 billion pounds ($1.5 billion) as a
special dividend last year after reducing debt and selling its
U.S. life-insurance arm, which caused the firm to lose money
during the financial crisis and forced out previous management
including former CEO Jim Sutcliffe. Old Mutual is now focusing
on selling life insurance in faster-growing countries such as
 Kenya  and Namibia in Sub-Saharan Africa as well as  fund
management  in the U.K.  The shares  increased  as much as 3.2 percent, trading at
206.20 pence at 9:08 a.m. in London, up 1.8 percent. They have
gained 15.7 percent this year.  Profit Surge  Operating profit, adjusted for goodwill, long-term
investments and currency swings, climbed 18 percent to 1.61
billion pounds in 2012, beating the 1.57 billion-pound  estimate 
of seven analysts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
firm increased its full-year dividend to 7 pence a share,
beating the analysts’ estimate of 6.5 pence.  The results show “how the company wants to position
itself, as the emerging-market dividend play,” said  Alan Devlin , a London-based analyst at Barclays Plc with a hold
rating on the stock. “They’re starting to push the dividend up,
albeit from a low base compared with the rest of the sector.”  Old Mutual’s net income for 2012 jumped 76 percent to 1.17
billion pounds. Operating profit for  emerging markets  rose 19
percent to 605 million pounds as life insurance sales increased
in Kenya and among South Africa’s growing middle class, the
company said. The firm also said it is exploring ways to cut
costs in  Europe .  Old Mutual has “no timetable set” for a planned initial
public offering of its U.S. asset-management unit, Roberts said.  “We’re pleased with progress of that business but it
hasn’t yet got to the stage where we think it would be value
enhancing to do an IPO,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in  London  at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg  at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  