-- Monte Paschi Sues Nomura, Deutsche Bank Over Derivative Bets
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-03-01T17:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/monte-paschi-begins-legal-action-against-nomura-deutsche-bank.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA ,
which yesterday received a 4.1 billion-euro ($5.3 billion)
government bailout, sued  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Nomura (8604)  Holdings
Inc. over two derivatives that soured.  Monti Paschi filed separate suits in Florence seeking
damages over two contracts from 2008 and 2009 dubbed Santorini
and Alexandria, the Siena, Italy-based lender said in a
statement today. The bank also sued former executives Antonio Vigni and Giuseppe Mussari for colluding with the banks in the
transactions. The lender didn’t specify how much it’s seeking.  Kathryn Hanes, a spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank in  London ,
and  Rob Davies , a spokesman for Nomura, declined to comment.
Lawyers for Vigni and Mussari didn’t return calls.  Monte Paschi, the world’s oldest bank, is being probed by
regulators and prosecutors over allegations the lender used the
derivatives to hide losses, adding to the cost of its rescue. In
case of the Santorini trade, never fully disclosed to investors,
the bank made a money-losing bet on the country’s government
bonds,  Bloomberg News  reported on Jan. 17.  Prosecutors are probing ex-executives for alleged market
manipulation, false accounting and obstruction of regulatory
activity during the 2007 takeover of Banca Antonveneta SpA as
well as for fraud linked to derivatives, according to people
with knowledge of the situation who asked not to be identified.  Shares Fall  Monte Paschi fell 2.3 percent to 20.62 euro cents in Milan
trading, valuing the bank at 2.4 billion euros. Funds including
Egerton Capital Ltd. and Marshall Wace LLP had short positions
on the stock as of yesterday, a regulatory filing showed today.
Short-sellers sell borrowed shares with plans to buy them back
later at a lower price for a profit.  Chief Executive Officer Fabrizio Viola and Chairman
Alessandro Profumo are seeking to restore investors’ confidence
and revive profitability after the bailout. The lender has said
the two trades masked earlier losses and the fair value of a
third trade, Nota Italia, wasn’t reflected accurately during the
life of the deal, erasing 730 million euros of assets in 2012.  The Alexandria and Santorini transactions are losing money
for Monte Paschi after the bets soured, adding to the damages
sought, the bank said today. The Italian lender said it paid 139
million euros to restructure Nota Italia on Jan. 23, reducing
its exposure to potential losses on Italian  government bonds .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  