-- Oppenheimer Wins Dismissal of Pension Plan Suit Over Fund
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-03-01T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/oppenheimer-wins-dismissal-of-pension-plan-lawsuit-over-fund-1-.html
Oppenheimer & Co. won dismissal of a
lawsuit brought by two  Massachusetts  pension plans that claimed
Oppenheimer misled investors by inflating the value of a fund’s
holdings.  U.S. District Judge Rya Zobel in Boston dismissed the
complaint yesterday, saying federal securities-law claims can’t
proceed because the investments were made through private
transactions rather than a public offering.  The retirement boards of Brockton and Quincy had sued over
Oppenheimer Global Resource Private Equity Fund I and its
investment in a fund called Cartesian Investor-A, according to
the complaint. Cartesian’s assets were shares in S.C.  Fondul
Proprietatea SA (FP) , which Romania created to compensate citizens
whose property was seized under the former Communist regime.  The pension plans claimed that in an “aggressive marketing
campaign,” Oppenheimer changed the valuation method for the
Cartesian holdings, which caused the stated return of the
Oppenheimer fund to be “vastly overstated.”  Representatives for the retirement boards and New York-
based Oppenheimer couldn’t immediately be reached yesterday
after regular business hours for comment on the judge’s ruling.  Oppenheimer Holdings Inc. (OPY)  said in a regulatory filing last
year that the company had responded to information requests from
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the
Massachusetts Attorney General’s office about an “alleged
overvaluation in the fall of 2009 of a single portfolio
holding” in the Oppenheimer global resource fund, as well as
certain marketing practices.  Oppenheimer also received a notice from the U.S. Attorney’s
Office in Boston that the office intended to seek information
about the matter, according to the filing.  The case is Brockton Retirement Board v Oppenheimer Global
Resource Private Equity Fund I LP., 12-cv-10552, U.S. District
Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  