-- Morgan Stanley Joins Kommunalbanken in Digital Coupon Notes Rise
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-03-01T10:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/morgan-stanley-joins-kommunalbanken-in-digital-coupon-notes-rise.html
Norway’s Kommunalbanken AS,  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  are helping fuel a surge in sales
of so-called digital coupon structured notes linked to
currencies, stocks or interest rates.  Banks sold $1 billion of the notes this year, up from
$209.2 million in the same period of 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Kommunalbanken, a state-owned Norwegian
municipal lender, was the biggest issuer of the securities,
raising $184.5 million.  Digital coupons, also known as all-or-nothing interest
payments because they’re payable only if certain conditions are
met, are popular with investors because they can boost returns.
That’s because when market volatility is low, options embedded
in certain structured notes are cheaper. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange Volatility Index, or  VIX (VIX) , fell to its lowest
intra-day level since April 2007 last month at 12.08.  Digital coupons offer “a simple way to enhance yield,”
said Kevin Woodruff, global product head of structured notes at
Morgan Stanley in London. The sixth-largest U.S. bank by assets
is the second-biggest issuer of the securities this year with
sales of $71.7 million, Bloomberg data show.  Credit Agricole comes third with $43.8 million of sales,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Paris-based bank
raised $18.5 million from selling 10-year securities on Feb. 15
that pay 6 percent so long as one dollar costs 6.45 Chinese  yuan 
or less and 79 Japanese yen or more, Bloomberg data show. If
either criterion isn’t met, no coupon will be paid.  Charline Coue, a Paris-based spokeswoman at Credit
Agricole, declined to comment on the notes.  Structured notes package debt with derivatives to offer
customized bets to investors while earning fees and raising
money.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in  London  at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  