-- Morgan Stanley Sees China Stealth Spending: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-03-01T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/morgan-stanley-sees-china-stealth-spending-cutting-research.html
China’s transition toward consumer-
led growth and away from exports may be occurring faster than
the government realizes.  Official data may have understated household consumption
and incomes by $1.6 trillion last year, according to estimates
by Morgan Stanley.  The reason: China’s statisticians haven’t kept pace with
structural changes in household spending such as on housing and
health care, which have grown rapidly, Hong Kong-based
strategists  Jonathan Garner  and Helen Qiao wrote in a Feb. 28
report.  The finding suggests that such spending amounts to about 46
percent of GDP, higher than the 35 percent generally estimated
and well below that of other large economies during periods of
rapid growth, the report said.  That means the shift to consumption-driven  growth  and away
from exports has been under way for some time, Garner and Qiao
said. And it implies that household spending as a share of GDP
has risen 2.4 percentage points since 2008, while the official
data suggests a 0.5 percentage point decline.  The estimates suggest “China has not been such an outlier
versus other countries in its investment trajectory,” they said
in their report.  * * *  The global financial crisis may have upended the
conventional wisdom that no strong link exists between economic
growth and equity returns, says  Schroders Plc. (SDR)   In a Feb. 22 report, economist Keith Wade and analyst Anja May reviewed the post-crisis relevance of a 2005 academic study
of 53 nations that had found no clear relationship between
shifts in stocks and in gross domestic product.  While the U.K’s recession and an eight percent gain in the
 FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  over the last year backs that view, the London-
based Schroders team found a “stable and significant”
correlation between the performance of an economy and equities.
Economic growth and inflation appeared to have an equal effect
on equities in the decade before the financial crisis. Then,
after 2007, equities performed positively when GDP was growing
and negatively when it was falling, regardless of inflation.  That may be because monetary policy has widened its focus,
said Wade and May. The health of the economy rather than the
rate of price increases now tends to drive monetary policy and
markets are more attuned to the actions of central banks.  The Schroders team found over the past six decades that
there has often been a link between the economy and equities
during the recovery, expansion and slowdown phases, only for it
to break down in recession.  Greater correlation between economic growth and equities
may not necessarily be bad for investors in the current low
expansion environment, as proved by the U.K., said Wade and May.
Markets may reflect anticipated rather than current growth.  “If expectations are key, a poor economic outlook will
already be priced in and investors’ returns will depend instead
upon whether market expectations are overly optimistic or
pessimistic with regards to future GDP growth,” they said.  * * *  The shakeup in leadership at the  Bank of Japan  will leave
it with the third-oldest executive among Group of Seven central
banks.  The nominations of Haruhiko Kuroda as Governor and Kikuo Iwata and Hiroshi Nakaso as his deputies would boost the average
age of the Bank of  Japan ’s top officials to 65.7 from 61,
according to Yasunari Ueno, chief market economist at Mizuho
Securities Co. in  Tokyo .  He focused on the ages of each central bank’s chief and his
immediate deputies. The  European Central Bank ’s leadership has
the oldest top tier at 67, while the Bundesbank’s average age of
46 is the youngest. The Federal Reserve Board’s average age is
62.5 for executives, and the Bank of England’s main officials
average 59 in age.  “Is it right to favor the knowledge and experience that
comes with age or to trust in the fresh ideas and energy of a
younger generation,” Ueno asked in the Feb. 27 report.  * * *  Latin American economies need to look at themselves rather
than at richer nations when trying to explain economic
imbalances.  A study by Capital Economics Ltd. economist Neil Shearing
based on the 1950s work of Australian academic Trevor Swan
suggests that excess domestic demand may have been the principal
cause of inflationary pressures and potential asset bubbles in
Brazil and its neighbors, rather than strong currencies brought
about by stimulus in the U.S.  By contrast, eastern European nations do require lower
exchange rates even though the countries have been quieter in
criticizing industrial economies for pursuing stimulus.  Shearing used a “Swan Diagram,” which shows economies in
balance have low inflation and high employment alongside a
current account in equilibrium. There are various combinations
of real exchange rates and domestic demand at which this success
can be achieved.  Shearing finds  Egypt  and  South Africa  are among those
needing their currencies to decline while China,  Russia  and
 South Korea  require theirs to rise. Brazil and  Peru  would
benefit from weaker domestic demand, yet Hungary and Slovakia
need it to strengthen. Mexico and  Thailand  are closest to
balance and thus set for strong economic performance, he said.  * * *  Worldwide economic growth has been “neither strong nor
balanced” in the past five years, despite a vow by Group of 20
nations to make it so.  That’s the conclusion of a  report  released last week by
Bank of Canada economists Robert Lavigne and Subrata Sarker. It
suggested any decline in global current account imbalances has
been the result of cyclical forces rather than from permanent
shifts in how economies work.  While they have shown signs of achieving fiscal
consolidation goals, G-20 members, whose leaders began meeting
in 2008, have had only limited success in their pursuit of more
flexible exchange rates, the economists said in the study.  China 
is among members that manage their currencies.  * * *  Money isn’t what it used to be in the U.K.  Its value has fallen 67 percent over the past three
decades, a study by Lloyds TSB Private Banking found. That means
someone today would have to spend 299 pounds ($454) to have the
equivalent purchasing power of 100 pounds in 1982.  Inflation has eroded the purchasing power of cash at an
average rate of 3.7 percent over the past three decades. The
price of bread, for example, has jumped from 37 pence to 1.24
pounds. In the future, if retail prices rose 2.8 percent
annually the value of money would fall another 56 percent over
the next 30 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  