-- Mori Targets Global Tenants for Tokyo’s Toranomon Hills Tower
-- B y   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o   a n d   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 2013-03-01T06:37:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/mori-targets-global-tenants-for-tokyo-s-toranomon-hills-tower.html
Mori Building Co., Japan’s biggest
closely held developer, said it plans to attract global
companies to its new building set to open in 2014, its biggest
project since Roppongi Hills opened a decade ago.  The 52-story tower, a joint development with the  Tokyo 
Metropolitan Government, has a total gross floor area of 244,360
square meters (2.6 million square feet), according to materials
distributed by Mori, which declined to disclose the cost of the
project. The high rise, in one of Tokyo’s central business
districts called Toranomon, will have shops, offices, apartments,
a hotel and conference halls, according to Tokyo-based Mori.  Toranomon Hills is part of the Tokyo government’s 268
billion yen ($2.9 billion) project to revitalize the capital’s
business districts where rents have fallen to record lows. The
government is designating special neighborhoods to attract
companies with global operations to set up their Asian
headquarters by offering incentives including some on taxes.  “This is a special district designed to strengthen  Japan ’s
international competitiveness and this new building will become
the symbol of that strategy,” said President Shingo Tsuji at a
press conference in Tokyo today. “Our purpose is to bring in
more global companies to make it a hub.”  Rents for offices in Tokyo’s five central wards -- the
heart of Tokyo’s shopping, entertainment and business districts
-- have been dropping since the global financial crisis in 2008,
according to Miki Shoji Co., an office brokerage company. They
fell to a record low in January.  Roppongi Hills  The tower, the second-largest project for Mori in Japan in
terms of size, is located on top of the government-planned Loop
Road No. 2, an expressway shaped like a half circle connecting
the south of the city to the west and north that makes it faster
to get around by car, according to Mori.  The $2.2 billion Roppongi Hills, with a gross floor area of
379,408 square meters, opened in April 2003 and was billed as
Japan’s biggest office tower at the time. It has attracted
tenants including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Apple Inc. plans to
moves its Tokyo headquarters there as early as April, two people
familiar with the plan said in January.  Mori, the landlord of 107 buildings in Tokyo, said it
obtained the rights to develop the land in Toranomon in 2009 and
owns part of the new building. Office area with about 99,800
square meters of space will be located from the sixth to 35th
floors, while the rest will be shops and conference halls with
parking spaces located in the three basement floors, it said.  Andaz , a boutique-style brand owned by  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H) ,
will occupy the top floors, while apartments will be located
right below the hotel, according to Mori.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  