-- Osborne Said to Recover RBS Bailout at 19% Below Rescue Cost
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-03-01T18:20:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/osborne-said-to-recover-rbs-bailout-at-19-below-rescue-cost.html
The U.K. would recover the cost of
rescuing  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  at a share price 19
percent below what the government paid to bail out the lender in
2008, said three officials familiar with the matter.  The government would break even on its investment at 407
pence a share compared with the average 502 pence paid during
its rescue, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly. That’s
because the price takes into account fees paid by RBS to the
Treasury for the bailout and other programs during the crisis,
the people said.  Royal Bank of Scotland Chief Executive Officer Stephen Hester yesterday said the lender, which received the biggest
banking bailout in the world, may be ready to be returned to
private hands before the 2015 vote. A Treasury official said the
government hasn’t set out a target price or a timetable for the
sale.  RBS fe11 3 percent to 314 pence  in London trading today.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  could
potentially use the proceeds of a sale to fund tax cuts or more
spending before a general election in two years that polls say
his  Conservative Party  may lose. The government is constrained
by the biggest austerity program since World War II and earlier
today came third in a special election in southern  England .  Prime Minister  David Cameron  has kept open the option of
giving away RBS shares to the public. The bank said yesterday
its net loss tripled to 5.97 billion pounds ($9 billion) after
it set aside an additional 1.1 billion pounds to compensate
clients missold insurance and interest-rate hedging products.  Third Place  Cameron’s Conservatives lost a special election in
Eastleigh today, showing he is struggling to win over voters in
the face of the U.K.’s recession. The Cabinet discussed the lack
of growth this week after Moody’s Investors Service stripped the
U.K. of its top debt rating on Feb. 22 and the pound today
dropped below $1.50 for the first time since July.  Osborne is also seeking to sell the government’s stake in
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , which it rescued in 2008. For the
London-based lender, the equivalent price for the government is
61 pence, it said today. One of the conditions attached to CEO
Antonio Horta Osorio’s 1.49 million-pound bonus is that the
government sells at least a third of its holding for more than
that price.  Lloyds declined 2.2 percent to 53.25 pence today. Lloyds
and RBS are the worst-performing U.K. bank stocks this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  