-- Lloyds Posts Loss on Loan Insurance, Swaps Compensation
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-03-01T17:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/lloyds-posts-loss-on-loan-insurance-swaps-compensation.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s
biggest mortgage lender, posted its third straight full-year net
loss and indicated profit margins will be narrower than analyst
estimates amid a faltering economic recovery.  The loss narrowed to 1.43 billion pounds ($2.2 billion)
from 2.8 billion pounds in the year-earlier period, the London-
based lender said in a statement today. Lloyds forecast a net
interest margin, the difference between earnings on loans and
the cost of funding, of 1.98 percent for 2013, less than the 2
percent estimate of Ian Gordon, an analyst at  Investec Plc (INVP)  in
London.  Margins are being pressured by higher wholesale funding
costs and increased competition for deposits as Chief Executive
Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio struggles to turn around the 39
percent government-owned lender. His efforts to return the bank
to profit are also being stymied by past regulatory missteps
such as the improper selling of loan insurance and interest rate
hedging products that will cost an additional 1.81 billion
pounds in compensation payments, Lloyds said today.  “In terms of forward-looking guidance and margins, there’s
going to be bit of disappointment there,” said Gordon, who
rates Lloyds a sell. “The market will focus on that.”  Shares Fall  The  shares  declined 2.2 percent to 53.25 pence in  London .
The government paid the equivalent of about 61 pence a share
when it bailed out the lender following its acquisition of HBOS
Plc in 2008, according to Lloyds.  “The government’s strategy remains to see Lloyds continue
the progress it has made in reforming itself into a strong and
sustainable bank,” a spokesman for the Treasury said in a
statement today. “There is still work to be done as it
continues to deal with the legacy of the past.”  Lloyds earmarked 1.5 billion pounds in the fourth quarter
to compensate customers wrongly sold payment protection
insurance, taking its total charge for the products to about 6.8
billion pounds, more than any other U.K. lender. The bank also
increased its provision for wrongly sold interest rate swaps by
310 million pounds. The lender didn’t provide an estimate for
how much it may have to set aside to settle allegations of
Libor-rigging.  Total Bill  Britain’s biggest banks have reserved more than 13 billion
pounds for PPI compensation.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
yesterday made an additional PPI provision of 450 million pounds
and 650 million pounds for clients wrongly sold  interest-rate
swaps .  Horta-Osorio is reducing expenses to strengthen the bank’s
balance sheet and forecast a reduction in total costs to about
9.8 billion pounds in 2013 from about 10 billion pounds, the
company said. The bank has cut more than 40,000 jobs and closed
overseas units to focus on the U.K. since it acquired HBOS.  “He’s achieved a lot but there is nothing Horta-Osorio can
do about the state of the U.K. economy, on which Lloyds is
dependent,” said  Simon Maughan , a financial strategist at
Olivetree Securities Ltd. in London. “Where are the comments
about rising revenue, where is the talk about future growth?
There’s not much on that in here.”  Lloyds didn’t give any update on its plans for resuming
dividend payments, which haven’t been made since it was rescued.  Reduced Risk  “We are now ahead of plan in creating a competitive
advantage through a reduced risk premium and best-in-class
efficiency,” said Horta-Osorio, 49. “We expect this to enable
us to return to profitability.”  Even after posting a third straight yearly loss, Horta-
Osorio will receive a bonus for 2012. He won’t receive the 1.49
million-pound award until the shares rise above 73.6 pence or
the government has sold a third of its stake for more than the
price it paid. Horta-Osorio didn’t take a bonus for 2011.  Lloyds has said it is assisting regulators in their
investigations into Libor wrongdoing and has been named as a
defendant in U.S. class-action lawsuits linked to allegations
various banks manipulated the benchmark interest rate for more
than $350 trillion of securities from derivatives to student
loans.  Lloyds’s loss narrowed as provisions for souring loans fell
42 percent to 5.7 billion pounds last year as impairments slowed
at its Irish unit. The firm said it expected to see a
“substantial reduction” in the charge for this year. The net
interest margin fell to 1.93 percent in 2012 from 2.07 percent.  Branch Sale  The bank said it expects to complete the sale of 632
branches to Co-Operative Bank Plc to comply with European Union
state-aid rules by the end of November.  The 750 million-pound sale, agreed in July, has stalled
after the Financial Services Authority questioned whether the
company’s managers have enough banking experience to run the
enlarged business.  Concern was heightened by the departure last month of Chief
Financial Officer James Mack, the latest senior executive to
quit the firm. Lloyds has planned for an initial public offering
of the branches as a “fall back option,” the company said
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  