-- Patton Boggs Fires 22 Associates Among 65 Cut at Law Firm
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-03-01T23:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/patton-boggs-fires-22-associates-among-65-cut-at-law-firm.html
Washington law firm Patton Boggs LLP
fired 65 staff members yesterday, including 22 associates,
managing partner Edward J. Newberry, said, citing increasing
economic pressures in the legal services business.  “We are one of the only large firms in the U.S. that made
no reductions during any point during the recession,” Newberry,
50, said today in an interview. “What we’re doing is exactly
what a prudent firm would do in aligning revenues and
headcount.”  The reductions came as a result of several large litigation
matters, which Newberry declined to identify, that are winding
down.  Patton Boggs financial performance in 2012 wasn’t
particularly strong, Newberry said. Revenue fell 6.5 percent
from the $339.7 million posted in 2011.  Firings may reflect weaknesses at a firm or can be a sign
of good management, said Ward Bower, a principal at law firm
consultant Altman Weil Inc.  “Anybody would be smart if they have an opportunity to
trade up to do so,” he said. “There’s a lot of talent out
there in the job market.”  The 550-lawyer firm had 209 associates before the layoffs.
The cuts included three in Denver, three in New York, three in
Dallas, four in Washington and the rest in the firm’s Newark,
New Jersey, office, Newberry said.  No Partners  The firm also let go eight staff attorneys, 15 staff
managers and eight paralegals. No partners were included in the
moves, Newberry said, adding that in the past two and a half
years the firm has trimmed partners from its ranks. In recent
months about 20 partners were asked to find other employment, he
said. Those cuts aren’t tied to a declining volume of work, he
said.  “It’s a response to a generally competitive environment.
Partner productivity becomes particularly important to the
success of a law firm,” Newberry said. “Recognizing that, over
time, we’re reducing the number of less productive partners.”  Newberry said the firm has made some significant hires
since the start of the year, highlighting James T. Jacks, a
former U.S. attorney for the Northern District of Texas in the
Dallas office and Elizabeth Ames Jones, former chairwoman of the
Texas Railroad Commission, who joined the firm in Dallas and
Washington.  The firm, which has six U.S. offices and three in the
Middle East, is investing in overseas expansion. Patton Boggs
last year acquired the Saudi Arabia office of the liquidating
Dewey & LeBouef LLP and the partners voted to open an office in
Dubai this year.  Newberry also said Patton Boggs had its biggest January
revenue in five years this year, a 35 percent jump from a year
earlier.  “Assuming we don’t have general additional revenue, we
will have a good year,” Newberry said. “If we have general
additional revenue we will have an excellent year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 