-- Pena Nieto Pushes Mexico’s Ruling Party to End Pemex Monopoly
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-03-01T21:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/pena-nieto-pushes-mexico-s-ruling-party-to-end-pemex-monopoly.html
Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto
is poised this weekend to gain support from his party to end a
75-year-old state monopoly in the oil industry, marking a
breakthrough for his growth plan.  The ruling  Institutional Revolutionary Party  will decide at
its national assembly whether to drop its opposition to
constitutional changes that would ease state-owned  Petroleos
Mexicanos ’s grip on the oil industry. Pena Nieto, who hasn’t yet
presented a bill proposing the changes, would still have to win
the votes in Congress, where his party has a plurality in both
houses.  Oil production in the world’s ninth-largest producer of
crude has fallen for eight years as Pemex finances a third of
the government’s public budget. Opening the industry to foreign
investors would boost output while lifting economic growth by as
much as 2 percentage points each year, Energy Minister Pedro Joaquin Coldwell said Feb. 14. For Pena Nieto, whose coalition
controls 241 of 500 seats in the lower house, gaining his
party’s support is the first step to making the changes.  “The PRI will align itself with its natural leader,” said
 Enrique Krauze , a historian and author of Mexico: A Biography of
Power. “They’ve shown that they’re serious, that they really
mean business” about overhauling the economy.  Changing the PRI’s bylaws would give Pena Nieto, 46, the
option, not the obligation, of presenting bills to expand the
items covered by the nation’s value-added tax to include food
and medicine and to amend Mexico’s Constitution to let foreign
companies sign joint ventures with Pemex, Javier Trevino, a
congressman on the PRI assembly’s organizing committee, said in
a Feb. 21 interview.  Pena Nieto hasn’t disclosed details of his planned
legislation.  ‘Credit Positive’  Pena Nieto’s party, known as the PRI, scuttled energy and
tax overhauls under former presidents  Felipe Calderon  and
Vicente Fox, most recently thwarting a 2009 bid by Calderon to
expand taxes to food and medicine which are currently exempt.
Both Calderon and Fox belonged to the  National Action Party , or
PAN.  Parts of the PRI in 1999 resisted an attempt by President
 Ernesto Zedillo , who belonged to the party, to open the
electricity sector to private investment, fueling speculation
that opposition within the PRI would prove to be the biggest
obstacle to Pena Nieto’s energy overhaul this time around.  That’s no longer the case, said  Mauro Leos , a senior credit
officer at Moody’s Investors Service.  After PRI leaders including national head Cesar Camacho
publicly backed the bylaw changes last week, there is a “high
likelihood” that the rest of its members will fall in line this
weekend, Leos said in a Feb. 26 interview, calling the decision
by the party leadership “credit positive” for  Mexico ’s Baa1
rating.  `Different PRI'  “This might be a different PRI,” Leos said. “It’s
significant that they were able to overcome the first obstacle,
and the first obstacle was the PRI itself.”  The PRI is changing its documents to “adjust” to a new
reality of being the ruling party, and to support Pena Nieto’s
pledges, Martin Takagui, a PRI deputy secretary for state
relations, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  “What we need to do is make the investment schemes
flexible so that we don’t continue to over-exploit Pemex,”Camacho, the PRI’s leader, told reporters Feb. 26. Pemex needs
to become “a world-class company,” he said.  Opposition Remains  The rule changes may still face opposition from union
leaders within the party who have opposed taxing food. Senator
Joel Ayala, who heads the government workers’ union, said he
would never back such taxes as they would foster hunger in
Mexico, according to an  interview  published in Reforma newspaper
Feb. 14.  Some blocs in Congress, including supporters of the runner-
up in last year’s presidential election,  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , can be expected to mount opposition, said Jeffrey
Weldon, a political scientist at the Mexico Autonomous
Technological Institute.  A constitutional change requires approval by two-thirds of
Congress and a majority of legislatures from 31 Mexican states
and the capital.  Before taking office Dec. 1 , Pena Nieto was debating
whether to promote a constitutional amendment on Pemex or to
rely on smaller legal changes, Luis Videgaray, his then
transition team leader and now finance minister, said in an Oct.
26 interview  Since then, Pena Nieto reached an agreement with all major
parties to promote both oil and tax legislation this year, even
though the proposals lack specifics.  The so-called “Pact for Mexico,” along with the PRI’s
likely passage of rule changes this weekend, give Pena Nieto the
momentum needed to push for sweeping reforms, said Duncan Wood
of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.  “It looks like Pena Nieto is going to be given the freedom
of action by the party to negotiate broader rather than more
restricted reforms,” Wood, director of the center’s Mexico
Institute, said in a phone interview from  Washington . “The fact
they’ve gone through this preliminary stage is a very, very
important signal for what they’re hoping to achieve.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  