-- Pentagon Official Urges Contractors’ Patience on Cuts
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-03-01T19:37:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/pentagon-official-urges-contractors-patience-on-cuts.html
Pentagon Comptroller Robert Hale
urged defense contractors to “stay with us” as the military
starts to impose across-the-board cuts to squeeze $46 billion
from this year’s budget.  “We need you, and we recognize you’re a valued part of”
national security, Hale said in a plea for defense industry
patience during an interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Peter
Cook  for “Capitol Gains” airing March 3.  Democrats and Republicans are in a standoff over how and
whether to replace the cuts totaling $1.2 trillion over nine
years that were triggered today. With half of the so-called
sequestration coming from defense programs, the Pentagon says it
will have to reduce planned funding by about $46 billion in the
remaining seven months of this fiscal year.  The Pentagon and military services also face the financial
constraints of a stopgap fiscal 2013 spending measure that
expires March 27 and may be extended for the year. The measure,
which continued fiscal 2012 funding, concentrates money in
weapons accounts and is less than what the Pentagon says is
needed to pay for troop training, maintenance and readiness.  “I can’t sit here and tell you you will be unaffected,”
Hale said of defense contractors. “You will. We will try to
communicate with you as best we can.”  Hale said signed contracts would be affected only in rare
cases “because we would experience heavy cancellation
charges.”  “If there are options in the contract, they may not get
picked up” or would be extended at lower levels, he said.
“Certainly, new contracts would have to be reconsidered.”  The Pentagon plans to buy 29 of  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s
F-35 jets, the costliest U.S. weapons system. “Under the
current circumstances, we would probably end up reducing the buy
size by several,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Cook in Washington at 
 pcook6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  