-- Peru’s Sol Falls to Three-Month Low as Banks Buy Dollar Reserves
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-03-01T21:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/peru-s-sol-falls-to-three-month-low-as-banks-buy-dollar-reserves.html
Peru ’s sol fell to its lowest level
in three months as banks boosted dollar purchases to meet
increased  reserve requirements .  The sol slid 0.3 percent to 2.5960 per dollar at today’s
close, the weakest since Nov. 20, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency posted a 0.6 percent weekly decline.  Peru’s central bank raised dollar reserve requirements on
Feb. 27 for a third time this year to slow credit expansion and
weaken the sol. The increases, combined with the monetary
authority’s $3.4 billion of U.S. currency purchases this year,
are making lenders reluctant to bet against the greenback,
according to Antonio Diaz, a trader at Banco Internacional del
Peru.  “We know the central bank is there with measures, that
it’s in the market when it has to be,” Diaz said in a telephone
interview from Lima. “The ‘sell, sell, sell’ strategy has
changed. Things are more balanced.”  The  Finance Ministry  has pledged to buy at least $4 billion
this year to curb gains in the sol, which appreciated 5.7
percent in 2012, the fastest pace since 2009. Today’s drop
extended the local currency’s slide in 2013 to 1.7 percent.  Copper, Peru’s top export, fell after a report indicated
that manufacturing growth slowed in  China , the world’s biggest
industrial-metals user.  Celfin Outlook  The central bank, which hasn’t bought dollars since Feb.
25, will probably stay out of the foreign-exchange market next
week because of global market “jitters,” according to Hedmond Rios, an economist at Celfin Capital in Santiago. The sol will
probably trade at about 2.6 during March before resuming its
gains, Rios wrote yesterday in an e-mailed report to clients.  The yield on the government’s sol bond due in August 2020
fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.73
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price
increased 0.23 centimo to 126.34 centimos per sol.  Peruvian consumer prices surprised economists by dropping
0.09 percent in February, the first decrease in three months,
the government’s statistics agency reported today. The median
forecast of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 0.18
percent increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  