-- Philippine Bonds Rally on Speculation of Further Monetary Easing
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-03-01T08:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/philippine-bonds-rally-on-speculation-of-further-monetary-easing.html
Philippine  government bonds  rose,
with the four-year yield dropping to a record low, on
speculation monetary conditions will be eased further after the
central bank said it expects inflation to remain contained.  Price gains this year and next will be in the lower half of
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas’s 3 percent to 5 percent target
range, Governor Amando Tetangco said Feb. 26, citing the
authority’s latest forecast. The central bank cut the rate it
pays on $44 billion in special deposit accounts to 3 percent
from more than 3.5 percent in January. There is room to further
refine the SDA to keep it as a liquidity management tool and not
an investment outlet, Tetangco said on Feb. 15.  “They’re comfortable with inflation and that gives them
the scope to keep on easing,” said Joric Nazario, treasurer at
Philippine Veterans Bank in  Manila . “The sense the market is
getting is that the central bank will further reduce the SDA
rate, or limit access to the facility. With expectations of more
funds in the system, investors are looking for outlets.”  The yield on the 6.25 percent peso bond due November 2016
fell seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 3.27
percent, according to midday fixing prices at Philippine Dealing
& Exchange Corp. That’s the lowest for a four-year benchmark
bond since Bloomberg started compiling the data in May 2002.  The central bank will consider more prudential measures as
appropriate and “further refine our conduct of monetary
operations,” Tetangco said in a mobile-phone message this week.  Liquidity, Peso  On March 3, 76.44 billion pesos ($1.9 billion) of six-year
government bonds will mature, data compiled by Bloomberg show,
adding liquidity into the system.  The peso fell 0.1 percent today and closed little changed
this week at 40.688 per dollar from 40.685 on Feb. 22, according
to Tullett Prebon Plc. One-month implied volatility, a measure
of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
was unchanged at 3.9 percent.  The peso is the best-performing Asian and emerging-market
currency in the past 12 months.  Net inflows  into the nation’s
stocks and bonds reached $1.3 billion in January or almost six
times the $213 million level in December, the central bank
reported on Feb. 14.  February  inflation  quickened to 3.3 percent, according to
the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey
before the March 5 report. That would be a five-month high.
Bangko Sentral will review monetary policy on March 14.  The central bank cut the benchmark  overnight borrowing  rate
to a record low of 3.5 percent in October and held it at that
level at its December and January meetings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  