-- Political Instability Adds Pressure on Italy Rating, Fitch Says
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-03-01T18:24:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/political-instability-adds-pressure-on-italy-rating-fitch-says.html
The prospect of political
instability in Italy following inconclusive elections last month
adds pressure on the country’s bond rating as the euro area’s
third-biggest economy contracts,  Fitch Ratings  said.  Instability “has the potential to disrupt policy making
and reduce policy continuity, and to weigh further on an already
weakening economy,” the rating company said in a statement in
London today. “Fiscal consolidation alone, without economic
growth, will not be sufficient to stabilize the debt-to-GDP
ratio.”  While Italy under outgoing Prime Minister  Mario Monti  was
able to bring its  budget deficit  within the European Union’s 3
percent of gross domestic product limit last year, the economy
still shrank 2.4 percent in 2012, Italy’s statistics institute
said today. That meant that the country’s debt load rose to 127
percent of GDP, the second-biggest in  Europe  after Greece.  The election on Feb. 24-25 failed to produce a governing
majority in Parliament, spurring concerns that Monti’s mix of
tax increases and spending cuts might be reversed by the next
government.  “When we affirmed Italy’s ’A-’ rating with a Negative
Outlook in December, we said that government instability and
prolonged uncertainty over economic and fiscal policies and
policy continuity was a potential downgrade trigger,” said
Fitch. Italy’s long-term debt is rated A- by Fitch Ratings. It
is rated Baa2 by Moody’s and BBB+ by  Standard & Poor’s .  Italy has enjoyed a respite from the euro region’s crisis
amid the austerity measures Monti passed in his 15-month tenure
and European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s commitment
last year “to do whatever it takes to preserve the euro.”  Fitch said that it sees the ECB’s Outright Monetary
Transactions program “as an effective potential shield against
contagion risk in the eurozone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  