-- Polish Growth Slows Less Than Forecast on Exports Cushion
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2013-03-01T16:19:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/polish-growth-slows-less-than-forecast-on-exports-cushion.html
Poland’s  economy  slowed less than
economists forecast in the fourth quarter as exports helped
offset weakening consumer spending, taming arguments for more
interest-rate cuts.  Gross domestic product climbed 1.1 percent from a year
earlier, which was the slowest pace since the second quarter of
2009 and compared with a 1.4 percent increase in the previous
three months, the Warsaw-based Central Statistics Office said
today. Economists expected a 0.9 percent increase, according to
the median of 32 estimates in a Bloomberg survey. GDP grew a
seasonally adjusted 0.2 percent from the  previous quarter ,
defying expectations for the first contraction in four years.  The European Union’s largest eastern economy has been
battling the worst slowdown in three years as the euro area, its
biggest trading partner, fell into recession. The central bank
has responded by cutting interest rates by 1 percentage points
since November and Governor Marek Belka said last month the
fourth quarter “didn’t bring a further drastic deterioration”
in economic conditions.  “The data show the economy in a soft landing,” Maciej Reluga, chief economist at Bank Zachodni WBK, said by phone from
Warsaw today. “We expect growth to bottom out in first quarter
and then start an export-driven recovery.”  Reluga predicted the economy will grow 1.2 percent in 2013.  Near Bottom  The zloty strengthened 0.4 percent after the report to
4.1340 per euro at 5:03 p.m. in Warsaw. The yield on the two-
year government bond rose eight basis points to 3.55 percent,
extending its increase this week to 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point.  Signs the slowdown is approaching its trough are starting
to appear.  Industrial production  unexpectedly rose 0.3 percent
in January after decreasing 10.6 percent in December, the lowest
since 2007, amid improving business confidence in Germany,
Poland’s biggest export market.  “Today’s data give a better starting-point for subsequent
quarters and force an upward revision of our forecasts for the
first half,” Ernest Pytlarczyk, head of financial market
research at BRE Bank in Warsaw, said by phone. “We have
significant doubts there’ll be a technical recession, growth
could just be flat.”  Recovery Starts  The recovery has “probably already” begun and “the worst
is over” for the economy, Belka said in an interview in New
Delhi on Feb. 25. Poland’s purchasing managers’ index, a gauge
of manufacturing, improved to 48.9 in February from 48.6
previous month, HSBC Holdings said today. Job cuts that had
fueled the contraction “might be bottoming out,” Agata Urbanska, HSBC Central and Eastern European economist, said in
the PMI  report .  Exports contributed 1.8 percentage points to GDP growth in
the fourth quarter, according to the statistic office’s
preliminary data today. That helped offset a 1 percent
contraction in  private consumption , the first yearly fall since
1996, which shaved half a percentage point off the economic
expansion in the October-December period, the office said.  Individual consumption accounts for 62 percent of Poland’s
GDP.  “The early weeks of this year show that the slowdown is
continuing, but fortunately, it’s not getting any worse,” Jacek Owczarek, chief financial officer at  Eurocash SA (EUR) , Poland’s
biggest distributor of non-durable goods, said in a phone
interview yesterday. “We see the retail market growing a little
faster than inflation this year.”  ‘Good Enough’  While the recent reports suggest the economy will rebound
in the second half of the year, the government will probably
reduce its budget forecast for 2.2 percent growth this year,
Deputy Finance Minister Janusz Cichon told TVN CNBC broadcaster
in an interview today.  The fourth-quarter data “are a weak starting point for
building optimistic forecasts,” Cichon said. “I would be
inclined to believe that the revision will be needed, but it
won’t be deep.”  Poland’s economy, the only one in the European Union to
avoid recession since 2008, will expand 1.2 percent in 2013, the
slowest pace in 12 years, as domestic demand falters, the
European Commission said on Feb. 22. Growth will accelerate to
2.2 percent next year, according to the EU’s executive.  The central bank’s Monetary Policy Council holds its next
rate meeting on March 5-6. Twenty-two of 37 economists  surveyed 
by Bloomberg predict a quarter-point rate cut to 3.5 percent,
matching the  historic low .  “The figures released today could be good enough to
warrant a well-flagged pause in rate cuts,” Mateusz Szczurek,
chief economist for Central and Easter Europe at ING Bank SA,
wrote in e-mailed note today.  Even if policy makers decide to cut borrowing costs next
month, the string of promising data may be enough to allow the
central bank to switch to a “wait-and-see” stance for the rest
of the year, Grzegorz Maliszewski, chief economist at Bank
Millennium in Warsaw, said in an e-mailed comment today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net ;
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  