-- Putin Submits Bill to Reverse Party Limits in Election Rules
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-03-01T13:24:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/putin-submits-bill-to-reverse-party-limits-in-election-rules-1-.html
Russian President  Vladimir Putin 
submitted a draft law that would loosen restrictions for smaller
parties to enter parliament and reinstate direct election of
individual candidates scrapped during his first two terms.  The legislation would reduce the barrier for parties to win
mandates in the 450-seat  State Duma , the lower house of
parliament, to 5 percent from 7 percent, according to an
explanatory note published on the Kremlin’s  website  today. Under
the bill, half of the Moscow-based legislature would be filled
by election of individual candidates in districts, with the
other half allocated on votes for parties.  “Putin’s key motivation is to create political
competition, because the current system has shown its
ineffectiveness,” said Yevgeny Minchenko, head of the
International Institute of Political Expertise. “Putin is
pragmatic and he understands that fresh blood is needed.”  While Putin has cracked down on opposition and non-
government groups after securing a third presidential term last
year, the Russian leader said in his state-of-the-nation address
in December that the authorities  “must aim to put everyone on
equal footing” and proposed reinstating single-mandate
constituencies that existed until 2004.  The changes may help Putin shore up his standing as support
dwindles for the ruling  United Russia  party, which he helped
found more than a decade ago.  Falling Support  Putin has repeatedly refused opposition demands to hold a
re-run vote after allegations of fraud tainted December 2011
parliamentary elections that gave United Russia a majority of
seats. The party was trusted by 40 percent of respondents in a
 poll  published this week by the Public Opinion Foundation, down
from 52 percent three years ago.  “The proposed changes are a response to public demand,”
Alexei Makarkin, first vice president at the Moscow-based Center
for Political Technologies, said by phone today. “Elections via
single mandate constituencies is a popular idea. People want to
vote for a politician, for a concrete person, and a party’s name
is sometimes an abstraction for them.”  Two pro-democracy parties, the now-defunct Union of Right
Forces, or SPS, and Yabloko, failed to win any seats in the Duma
in 2007 elections after Putin’s government raised the entry
barrier and abolished direct election of individual candidates
that allowed lawmakers to garner seats outside of party lists.  Independent Candidates  The law would enable independent candidates to take part in
election, requiring them to collect signatures representing 0.5
percent of their district’s electorate, or at least 500 people
for constituencies with less than 100,000 voters. Party
contenders and their single-mandate candidates won’t need to
collect signatures in support of their bids.  Parties’ campaign funds must not exceed 700 million rubles
($23 million) and a limit of 15 million rubles is set on
electoral expenses of candidates, according to the note.  Forming party coalitions and returning a ballot option of
“against all” aren’t included in the bill, the newspaper
Vedomosti reported today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  