-- Ralls Loses Bid for Court Order to Block Wind-Farm Sale
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-03-01T17:41:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/ralls-loses-bid-for-court-order-to-block-wind-farm-sale.html
Ralls Corp., the Chinese-owned
company barred by the Obama administration from operating an
Oregon wind farm, lost its bid for a court order to block the
sale of collateral it put up to buy assets for the development.  U.S. District Judge P. Kevin Castel lifted a temporary
order barring the sale and denied Ralls’ request for a
preliminary injunction to prevent Terna Energy USA Holding Corp.
from proceeding with the sale of wind-farm property in  Texas 
that Ralls pledged to acquire the Oregon project. Ralls argued
that Obama’s order nullified its transaction with Terna.  “We intend to go forward with selling the Texas wind
farms,” Robert Weigel, an attorney for Terna, said in a phone
interview yesterday.  Tim Xia, an attorney and spokesman for Ralls, didn’t
immediately reply to a message requesting comment.  Ralls bought the Oregon wind farm assets from Terna, a unit
of the Athens-based energy company  Terna Energy SA (TENERGY) , in February
2012 and was subsequently barred by President  Barack Obama  from
developing the project on national security grounds because it’s
near a U.S. Navy base. Obama’s order requires Ralls, an
affiliate of  China ’s Sany Group Co. Ltd., to divest itself of
the Oregon property.  Terna notified Ralls in December that it had failed to make
a $4.2 million payment due on the Oregon project assets and that
membership interest in Ralls’ Texas property would be sold.  Castel ruled Feb. 26 that Ralls hadn’t shown it would be
irreparably harmed by paying the $4.2 million and thus didn’t
meet the standard required for an injunction, according to the
transcript of a hearing the previous day.  Obama’s Power  In a separate case, Ralls has challenged the Obama
administration’s power to require a sale of the Oregon property.  U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson in  Washington  threw
out most of that suit on Feb. 22, ruling that the president has
the authority to require the sale. Jackson said Ralls can
continue arguing a case that it’s entitled to an explanation for
the administration’s decision.  The case involving the collateral is Ralls Corp. v. Terna
Energy USA Holding Corp., 13-cv-739, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ). The case against the
U.S. government is Ralls Corp. v. Committee on Foreign
Investment in the U.S., 12-cv-01513, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  