-- Rand Posts Biggest Weekly Drop in 5 Months on Record Trade Gap
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-03-01T15:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/rand-set-for-biggest-weekly-drop-in-five-months-on-trade-gap.html
The rand weakened against the
dollar, extending its biggest weekly drop in five months, after
South  Africa  posted a record trade deficit.  The currency retreated 0.8 percent to 9.0999 per dollar by
4:49 p.m. in Johannesburg for a weekly decline of 2.7 percent,
the most since the five days through Oct. 5. Yields on 10.5
percent bonds due December 2026 rose 9 basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 7.39 percent today.  The  trade gap  reached 24.5 billion rand ($2.7 billion) last
month compared with 2.7 billion rand in December, the revenue
service said yesterday, more than the 9.7 billion rand median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey. Pressure on the
current account, the broadest measure of trade in goods and
services, is contributing to the rand’s slump to near a four-
year low. Gasoline will increase 6.6 percent next week, the
Energy Department said in e-mailed statement today.  “This week has been extremely tremulous with yesterday’s
data not helping to keep fears allayed,”  Brigid Taylor , head of
institutional sales at  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  in Johannesburg, said
by phone. “The petrol-price increase announced today has just
added to those fears.”  South Africa’s government said Feb. 27 it’s considering
increasing the tax on gasoline to help pay for an upgrade of
refineries to ensure the plants produce cleaner fuel.  Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  cut his forecasts for
economic growth for the next three years on Feb. 27 and delayed
plans to narrow the budget deficit. He said in an interview the
economy can “live with” the rand’s current level.  South Africa’s trade deficit in 2012 was more than six
times larger than a year before at 117.7 billion rand as slower
global growth and mining strikes curbed exports in Africa’s
largest economy.  The “reaction to the trade-deficit number is simply a
taste of what’s to come if external demand does not pick up to
bolster South Africa’s export performance,” Chris Becker, an
analyst at Tradition Analytics, said in a note.  The rand’s three-month implied volatility against the
dollar climbed to 13.05 percent, compared with 12.09 percent
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  