-- BP Battles U.S., Transocean Over Gulf Spill Rate Claims
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-03-02T04:56:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/transocean-claims-bp-prolonged-spill-by-hiding-flow-rate.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , seeking to avoid
liability in the  Gulf of Mexico  spill trial, claimed  BP Plc (BP/) 
misrepresented the amount of oil that gushed from its blown-out
Macondo well, prolonging the catastrophe by 60 days.  The claim by BP’s codefendant came after the first week of
a three-month trial, and one day after BP sought to bar the U.S.
government from seeing related communications with its lawyers.
The April 2010 blow-out caused the Deepwater Horizon oil rig to
explode, killing 11 workers. Transocean, the rig’s owner,
claimed in a filing yesterday in New Orleans federal court that
BP’s misrepresentations of the spill-rate breached its drilling
contract. The U.S., meanwhile, wants some BP lawyer files that
are tied to the U.K.-based company’s spill-rate calculations.  BP’s liability  in the case will turn in part on the size of
the offshore spill, the worst in U.S. history, and whether its
conduct was negligent or grossly negligent. If the latter is
determined by the judge, the company may be liable to the U.S.
for as much as $17.6 billion and unspecified punitive damages to
claimants not part of an $8.5 billion civil accord last year.  For Transocean and  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which was responsible
for cement services at the well, a similar finding in the trial
would mean they could face punitive damage awards.  Also yesterday, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New Orleans
reversed a decision by U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  barring
BP from using $750 million of Transocean’s insurance coverage to
pay costs from the spill. Barbier had ruled that the drilling
contract between the companies for the Macondo well precluded BP
from seeking coverage under the Transocean policies for
pollution-related liabilities.  Civil Claims  BP is in negotiations to settle the civil case with the
U.S. and Gulf states affected by spill, according to a person
familiar with the situation who asked not to be named because
they aren’t authorized to discuss the talks. BP pleaded guilty
last year to 14 criminal counts, including one charge of lying
to Congress about the size of the spill. The company agreed to
pay $4 billion in fines and penalties.  Transocean, in yesterday’s filing, is seeking to avoid
liability by placing the blame on BP. During the accident, BP
recommended a series of well-control measures to U.S. regulators
that were prioritized in part on BP’s estimates of how much oil
and gas was flowing from the well. BP’s allegedly faulty
estimates caused workers to attempt a so-called “top kill”
plan, which failed, before they implemented an alternative plan
that ultimately succeeded in stopping the well, Transocean said.  ‘BOP-on-BOP’  “Had the alternative source control approach -- known as
the BOP-on-BOP -- been attempted instead of the doomed top kill
effort, the well could have been capped in mid-May, rather than
in mid-July,” Transocean’s lawyers said in the filing. “In
short, BP’s tortuous and criminal conduct caused the oil spill
to last for two months longer than necessary.”  Scott Dean , a spokesman for BP, declined to comment on the
case. Wyn Hornbuckle, a spokesman for the  Justice Department ,
declined to comment on Transocean’s filing. But in an e-mail
yesterday, he pointed to BP’s guilty plea where the company
admitted that a senior executive publicly downplayed flow-rate
estimates at 1,000 to 5,000 barrels a day while having access to
“significantly higher” calculations generated internally by
BP’s engineers.  A team of government experts later concluded the well was
leaking more than 60,000 barrels per day. In documents produced
in various BP criminal cases tied to the spill, company
engineers discuss the odds that “top-kill” will fail if the
flow rate exceeded 15,000 barrels daily.  ‘Core Breach’  Transocean claimed BP’s misrepresentations about the volume
of the spill “constitutes a core breach” of the Deepwater
Horizon’s drilling contract. That breach, company attorneys said
in the filing, “as a matter of law nullifies BP’s defenses and
limitations to damages under the contract.”  Transocean seeks recovery of direct damages, including
“loss of profits and loss of the vessel and its equipment and
reimbursement of settlements paid to or on behalf of its
employees,” according to the filing.  BP, in its filing Feb. 28,  asked the court to block a
government request to make public internal communications with
the company’s lawyers.  The documents, which BP said are protected by attorney-
client privilege, detail  oil spill  flow-rate calculations the
U.S. claimed are related to BP’s guilty plea.  The energy company claimed the documents don’t relate to
the specific criminal conduct admitted in its plea. BP said that
turning the documents over would give the U.S. “unwarranted
tactical advantages from BP’s acceptance of responsibility.”  Preparing Report  “Just because a lawyer is part of the process of preparing
a report that includes false or fraudulent statements does not
mean the attorney’s professional services were rendered in
furtherance of fraudulent purposes,” BP’s lawyers said in the
filing. The privilege can’t be automatically stripped “every
time a lawyer is involved in a process of providing information
to the government that might later turn out to be false.”  The government asked Barbier, who presides over the case,
to use the so-called crime-fraud exception to force the company
to hand over documents. They relate to three U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission filings BP made shortly after the April 2010
spill.  The government also seeks internal papers concerning BP’s
communications with Congressional investigators and U.S. Coast
Guard officials overseeing BP’s attempts to stop, and clean up,
the spill.  “Because BP used its attorneys to aid in its wrongdoing,
it can no longer claim privilege with respect to communications
related to developing the flow-rate information and
communications forming the basis of BP’s false and misleading
statements,” the U.S. said in a Jan. 29 filing.  Active Participation  BP said the government may be entitled to company e-mails
and reports that were sent with the active participation of
former BP Exploration Vice President  David Rainey , who has been
charged with two counts of obstruction. Rainey has pleaded not
guilty and is awaiting trial.  The company agreed to give the judge sealed copies of
communications in which Rainey “is an active participant and
that relate to the matters in BP’s guilty plea allocution.”  BP also will provide Barbier with sealed copies of
additional communications the government seeks which BP said
aren’t directly linked to Rainey or to the conduct the company
admitted in its plea.  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco 
at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 