-- Transocean Posts Profit as U.S. Gulf Drilling Increases
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-03-01T22:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/transocean-posts-profit-as-u-s-gulf-drilling-increases.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the world’s largest
offshore rig contractor, reported a fourth-quarter profit for
the first time in three years as drilling in the U.S. Gulf of
Mexico helped boost demand for vessels.  Net income was $456 million, or $1.19 a share, compared
with a loss of $6.17 billion, or $18.67, a year earlier, the
Vernier, Switzerland-based company said today in a statement.
Excluding a $101 million tax benefit, per-share profit was 9
cents more than the average of 35 analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Sales climbed 9 percent to $2.33 billion.  Fourth-quarter results a year earlier included a writedown
because of the lower market value of its contract drilling
business. The number of industry  rigs  operating in the U.S. Gulf
rose 17 percent to an average of 48 during the fourth quarter
from 41 a year earlier, according to  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)   “The magnitude of the writedown last year was pretty
substantial,” John Keller, an analyst at Stephens Inc. in
Houston, said in a phone interview before the earnings were
released. He rates the shares at equal weight, the equivalent of
a hold, and owns none. “Their operational performance over the
course of 2012 has steadily improved.”  Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn , who holds a 5.39 percent
stake in Transocean, called on the company in January to issue a
$4-a-share dividend. Transocean, which had about $6 billion in
cash and near-cash items at the end of September, didn’t issue a
dividend last year as it sought to maintain an investment grade
credit rating and a “strong, flexible balance sheet” while
reducing the value of its businesses.  Transocean last reported a profitable fourth quarter in
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The earnings statement was released after the close of
regular trading in New York. Transocean fell 0.3 percent to
$52.15. The shares have 27 buy, 15 hold and two sell ratings
from analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  