-- RBS, Deutsche Bank Lose Appeal in Mortgage-Bond Lawsuit
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-03-01T22:37:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/rbs-deutsche-bank-lose-appeal-in-mortgage-bond-lawsuit.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  must face claims from a
pension fund over $1.3 billion in mortgage bonds and potentially
billions more, a federal appeals court ruled.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  Manhattan  today reversed a
lower-court ruling that dismissed the case against the banks and
NovaStar Mortgage Inc. over loans bundled into securities before
the financial crisis.  The claims by the New Jersey Carpenters Health Fund
“permit us to draw the reasonable inference” that the banks
are liable under federal securities laws, the appeals court said
in its decision.  The New Jersey fund filed a class-action complaint over
$1.3 billion in bonds sold to investors in 2007, according to
court papers. The fund claimed that the securities were riskier
than promised and that offering documents contained material
misstatements and omissions about the loans backing them.  RBS, Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank and Wachovia, now part
of San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, were underwriters, according
to court papers. They failed to conduct adequate due diligence
related to NovaStar’s loan origination practices and compliance
with underwriting guidelines, according to the complaint.  Lacked Standing  The pension fund had tried to sue over a wider group of
securities in six offerings of about $7.7 billion, according to
court documents. U.S. District Judge Deborah Batts dismissed the
complaint in 2011. She ruled the fund lacked standing to sue
over five offerings because it invested in only one. She also
said it provided “no specific factual allegations to support
its statements.”  In her ruling, Batts described the complaint as “102 pages
of ‘The subprime market melted down and defendants were market
participants, so they must be liable for my losses in my risky
investment.’”  The fund filed a new complaint in 2011 over the 2007
securities, which Batts again dismissed last year, saying the
claims “are not sufficiently specific.”  The appeals court said the allegations were sufficient for
the case to proceed. It also ordered the lower court to review
whether the fund could sue on the other offerings based on a
ruling by the appeals court in a separate case.  ‘Obviously Gratified’  That could potentially increase the amount of securities at
issue in the lawsuit, said Joel Laitman, an attorney for the
pension fund at law firm Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll Pllc in
New York.  “We’re obviously gratified that we can proceed with this
$1.3 billion offering and potentially five additional billion-
dollar offerings,” he said in a phone interview.  Ed Canaday , a spokesman for Edinburgh-based RBS, along with
Vickee Adams, a spokeswoman for Wells Fargo, and Deutsche Bank
spokeswoman Amanda Williams, declined to comment on today’s
ruling.  The case is New Jersey Carpenters Health Fund v.  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , 12-1707, U.S Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  