-- Treasuries Beat Global Index of Stocks on Safety Bid
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-03-01T01:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/treasuries-beat-global-index-of-stocks-on-safety-bid.html
Treasuries outperformed stocks last
month for the first time since October as money managers sought
the relative safety of U.S. debt after Italy held an
inconclusive election and the Federal Reserve reinforced its
commitment to buying government debt.  Investors in U.S. government securities earned 0.6 percent,
or an annualized 8 percent, in the month, based on Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD) 
of shares was little changed, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “People are selling stocks and going into bonds, the safe
haven,” said Yoshiyuki Suzuki, head of fixed income in  Tokyo  at
Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance Co., which has about $61.5 billion
in assets. Italy’s vote was a “very bad result” that may renew
 Europe ’s debt crisis, he said.  U.S. 10-year  yields  were little changed at 1.87 percent as
of 9:45 a.m. in Tokyo, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data.
The price of the 2 percent security due in February 2023 was 101
6/32.  The Dow Jones Industrial Average beat the MSCI index last
month with a 1.8 percent return including reinvested dividends.
The measure is about 1 percent away from its  October 2007 (INDU) 
record. It fell 0.2 percent yesterday.  Treasuries began the week with their biggest one-day rally
since November as Italy concluded its election without a winner.
The outcome highlights the risk that Europe’s recovery may slow,
making it more difficult for nations to pay their debts.  Continue Purchases  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke signaled in
congressional testimony this week the central bank is prepared
to keep buying bonds at its present pace, as he dismissed
concerns record easing risks sparking inflation or fueling asset
price bubbles. He told lawmakers the Fed’s policies are helping
to improve demand for homes and cars by lowering long-term
interest rates.  Manufacturing in the U.S. probably expanded for a third
month in February, based on Bloomberg News surveys of
economists. The Institute for Supply Management’s  factory index 
was 52.5, versus 53.1 in January, based on the survey before the
report at 10 a.m.  New York  time today. A number greater than 50
shows growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  