-- Redgrave’s Nazi Survivor; ‘Passion’; ‘Carousel’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-03-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/redgrave-s-nazi-survivor-passion-carousel-review.html
Vanessa Redgrave  plays an elderly
Polish Jew in “ The Revisionist ,” saved as a child from the
Nazis by her doomed family’s Catholic nanny.  In her last  New York  stage appearance, she was a Southern
Jewish matron sparring with her black chauffeur in “Driving
 Miss Daisy ,” so perhaps the fiery Palestinian rights advocate
is being ironic.  Both plays challenged theatergoers to set aside politics
and simply to engage with one of the great actresses of this or
any other age.  The new play, by and co-starring  Jesse Eisenberg  (“ The
Social Network ”), is no great shakes. But this Rattlestick
Playwrights production allows the 76-year-old actress to
astonish us as Maria, a juicy, engaging character, in an
intimate off-Broadway theater.  Maria lives alone in Szczecin, which the program tells us
is a port city by the  Baltic Sea . Her walls are covered with
photographs of relatives in the U.S. who never visit. The
apartment is barely large enough to accommodate her, let alone a
guest.  Nevertheless she’s overjoyed at the arrival of her young
second cousin David (Eisenberg), who has come hoping a shakeup
of routine will end his writer’s block, allowing him to fix the
manuscript of his second novel.  David is that Eisenberg specialty, a spoiled narcissistic
overgrown brat. Upon arriving he removes a pipe and some dope
from his backpack (really? post-9/11?) to toke up, bickers with
Maria over just about everything and is scandalized when he
walks in on her having her legs shaved by a doting friend (the
gruff and amiably bearish Daniel Oreskes). Scandalized?  So credibility isn’t the fine point of director Kip Fagan’s
production as it builds to Maria’s inevitable Big Reveal. Her
story, when she finally tells it, comes close to Holocaust porn
in its voyeuristic sketch of tragedy.  Yet Redgrave redeems Maria in a performance suffused with
humanity, feeling and a great accent. It’s a compact, 100-minute
tour de force.  Through March 31 at the Cherry Lane Theatre, 38 Commerce
St.,  Greenwich Village . Information: +1-866-811-4111;
 http://www.therevisionistplay.com . Rating: ***  Sondheim’s ‘Passion’  John Doyle  is the director who had actors toot their own
horns in an alarmingly well-received chamber production of
“Sweeney Todd” a few years back. Such gimmickry is not, thank
God, the case with his elegant revival of  Stephen Sondheim  and
James Lapine’s 1994 “Passion,” which Doyle also designed.  The orchestra, expertly conducted by Rob Berman, is safely
offstage, allowing a wonderful trio of leads to make a new case
for this masterpiece.  Handsome Italian army officer Giorgio is in the throes of
an ecstatic affair with beautiful, married Clara when he’s
dispatched to a distant post. There he catches the eye of Fosca,
his commanding officer’s homely, infirm cousin.  Fosca’s relentless pursuit of Giorgio (the one-act musical
is based on Ettore Scola’s “ Passione d’Amore ”) will strike you
as either creepy or transformative. Either way, the story
inspired some of the most hauntingly lyrical music in the
Sondheim canon.  Melissa Errico is a ravishing Clara, charmingly conveying
the smug confidence of someone whose life is as smooth as her
skin. Ryan Silverman’s Giorgio grows from vain vagueness into
heartfelt, vulnerable self-knowledge as Giorgio. Best of all,
Judy Kuhn underplays Fosca’s obsessiveness beautifully, with
unhistrionic acting and gorgeously quiet singing.  Through April 7 at Classic Stage Company, 136 E. 13th St.
Information: +1-212-352-3101;  http://www.classicstage.org .
Rating: ****  American ‘Carousel’  Carousel horses hang over the Avery Fisher Hall stage, which
is about as elaborate as the decor gets in the  New York
Philharmonic ’s concert version of “Carousel.”  That’s fine since the evening is all about the music, and
it’s a winner. You can see it live through tomorrow night, or
catch it on public television at the end of April.  Richard Rodgers  and Oscar Hammerstein II transported Ferenc
Molnar’s 1909 play about the brief troubled marriage of a rough-
hewn carousel barker and a maid from Budapest to the New England
coast.  Along the way, they injected a strong dose of American
optimism into Molnar’s fatalistic story.  With a second act that moves into the cosmos, a Middle
European sensibility nevertheless survived in a score that
starts out with the unparalleled “Carousel Waltz” and
continues with some of the greatest musical-theater songs ever
written.  Conductor Rob Fisher coaxes every textural nuance from Don
Walker’s rich orchestrations. Opera baritone Nathan Gunn, a bit
stolid as Billy Bigelow, delivers “Soliloquy” with verve. As
Julie Jordan, Broadway’s Kelli O’Hara is never better than in
the lovely “What’s the Use of Wond’rin.”  Jessie Mueller and Jason Danieley are entertaining as
lovebirds Carrie Pipperidge and Enoch Snow. Shuler Hensley,
everywhere these days, is gravel-voiced, snarky and on-target as
Jigger Craigin, snarling “Stone Cutters Cut It on Stone.”  But the most fun is had by Stephanie Blythe as Nettie
Fowler, with her booming “June is Bustin’ Out All Over.”  Warren Carlyle’s choreography for the Act II ballet danced
by Tiler Peck and Robert Fairchild, is outstanding.  Through March 2 at  Avery Fisher Hall ,  Lincoln Center .
Information: +1-212-875-5656;  http://nyphil.org . Rating: ****  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  movies  and New York  Weekend .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 