-- Republicans Demand Exempting Pentagon From a Budget Deal
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-03-01T17:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/republicans-demand-exempting-pentagon-from-a-budget-deal.html
Republicans on the House Armed
Services Committee demanded that defense programs be spared from
cuts under any compromise to reverse $85 billion in across-the-
board federal spending reductions that begin today.  Under the automatic cuts called sequestration, the Pentagon
must shoulder about $46 billion in cuts from previously planned
spending in the remaining seven months of this fiscal year and
about $500 billion over a decade.  The Pentagon has already withstood earlier rounds of
spending cuts that threaten U.S. military readiness, so White
House and congressional negotiators should turn to other areas
of the budget, including  Social Security  and Medicare, to help
curb deficits, said House Armed Services Committee Chairman
Howard P. “Buck” McKeon. He spoke as President  Barack Obama 
met at the White House with congressional leaders, including
Republican House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio .  “We are telling the president and John Boehner, when you
walk out of that meeting this morning, don’t plan on cutting our
national defense one more cent,” McKeon, a California
Republican, said at a news conference today in the Capitol. He
was flanked by half a dozen other Republicans on the panel,
which is dominated by lawmakers in both parties from districts
that benefit from defense contracts and military bases.  Lawmakers and officials including former Defense Secretary
 Leon Panetta  have warned that sequestration threatens the combat
readiness of U.S. forces and risks creating a “hollowed out”
force.  A group of defense analysts challenged such claims today on
a conference call with reporters.  ‘Relatively Mild’  “This is relatively mild compared to some previous
drawdowns in  defense spending ,” said  Todd Harrison  of the
Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments in Washington.
“This is bad policy, this is not a way to run your government,
but this is not going to make us a second-rate power by any
means.”  Lawrence Korb, a former assistant secretary of defense and
a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress in
Washington, said of sequestration: “You can do it without
really impacting our readiness to deal with the threats that we
face.”  Some Republican lawmakers also have said that the Pentagon
can absorb sequestration in the name of paring the federal
deficit. Asked about that split within his party, McKeon said
the members of his panel are the experts on defense because they
have more access to military leaders and can see how cuts would
hurt their districts.  ‘Greater Knowledge’  “We have the greater knowledge of the impact of these cuts
on our national security,” McKeon said.  McKeon and other Republicans on the Armed Services
Committee laid the blame for the impending across-the-board cuts
on Obama and Senate Democrats.  “I have never in my lifetime seen such a lack of
leadership and truth-telling emanating from the White House and
from our commander-in-chief,” McKeon said.  Republicans have rejected Democrats’ call for higher taxes
on top earners to replace a portion of the spending reductions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in  Washington  at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  