-- Revenge of the Nerds Nears Completion as Sports Tap Big Brains
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-03-01T14:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/revenge-of-the-nerds-nears-completion-as-sports-tap-big-brains.html
Geek is chic in professional sports.  “I don’t know if we’re the cool kids, but we’re getting
there,” Houston Rockets General Manager Daryl Morey said.  Morey will assume rock-star status today and tomorrow in
Boston at the MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference, a meeting
dubbed “Dorkapalooza” by ESPN columnist Bill Simmons.  The largest gathering of sports and statistical-analysis
junkies began this morning with Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban; “Moneyball” author and Bloomberg View columnist Michael Lewis;  New York  Times blogger Nate Silver; San Francisco 49ers
Chief Operating Officer Paraag Marathe, a former consultant at
Bain & Co.; and Morey on a panel titled “Revenge of the
Nerds.”  “Sports is a very pure laboratory,” Silver said this
morning before a crowd of about 2,000 people at the Boston
Convention and Exhibition Center. “It’s amazing what’s being
done in sports.”  The conference is hardly recognizable from its start in
2007, when about 175 people convened on the campus of the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said co-founder Jessica
Gelman, a Harvard University MBA and vice president of customer
marketing and strategy at Kraft Sports Group, which owns the
National Football League’s New England Patriots.  More than 2,700 people are expected to attend this year, a
rise in popularity that mirrors the increased use of statistical
analysis among pro sports teams, Gelman said in a telephone
interview.  “We’ve become mainstream,” she said.  NASA Alumnus  Among the speakers is Sig Mejdal, director of decision
sciences for the Houston Astros and a self-described geek who in
2005 left his job at the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration to work in baseball.  “Stats are sexy,” he said via telephone. “The field in
general is booming.”  Mejdal said he’s inundated with resumes from business-
school graduates whose preference is to work in sports. Morey’s
Rockets received more than 1,100 resumes, about 20 percent from
people working in finance, for two vacancies in the team’s
basketball operations department, one analyst and one intern.  The sold-out conference, which cost $565 for non-students,
has a 200-person wait list. Attendance is up 25 percent over
last year, said Gelman, adding that more than 90 teams, leagues
and governing bodies -- including the NFL, the NBA, Major League
Baseball and Major League Soccer -- will be there. Five English
Premier League teams are signed up, along with the U.S. Olympic
Committee, USA Swimming and U.S. Tennis Association.  Other featured speakers include ESPN President John Skipper, NBA Deputy Commissioner Adam Silver, Los Angeles
Dodgers President Stan Kasten and Patriots President Jonathan Kraft.  Guggenheim Partners  The Dodgers were sold at auction last year to a group that
includes the private-equity firm Guggenheim Partners. As more
finance people enter sports, there’s a greater appreciation for
the usefulness of analytics in decision-making, with virtually
all major professional teams using statistical analysis in some
capacity, Morey said.  “If someone is saying, ‘I don’t look at it,’ they sound a
bit like the Flat Earth Society,” he said.  SAP AG, the software company based in Walldorf,  Germany ,
used the conference as a forum to announce a scouting product
developed in partnership with the 49ers. SAP is also helping the
49ers, who lost the Super Bowl to the Baltimore Ravens last
month, with predictive modeling of the salary cap, Marathe said.  Sports ‘Meritocracy’  “The sports business is becoming more and more of a
meritocracy,” said Marathe, who received his bachelor’s degree
with high honors from the University of California-Berkeley and
his MBA from Stanford. “We’re starting to run these as
efficient businesses. That means trying to get the most revenue
on the business side and the best players on the team side. The
teams that are most successful marry those.”  The conference also will include panel discussions on
sponsorship and ticketing analytics, social media, sports
betting and injuries.  Marathe says he’s fine with the geek label a little longer.  “I hope we aren’t cool,” he said. “The longer we get to
stay nerds, the longer there’s a need for nerds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  Boston  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  