-- Ringgit Forwards Set for Weekly Rise on Steady Economic Outlook
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-03-01T01:41:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/ringgit-forwards-set-for-weekly-rise-on-steady-economic-outlook.html
Malaysian ringgit forwards are
headed for the biggest weekly gain in more than a month on
optimism that  Southeast Asia ’s third-largest economy will
sustain its growth momentum.  Government bonds  were steady.  Gross domestic product in 2013 may expand faster than last
year’s 5.6 percent pace, driven by investment and domestic
consumption, Nor Mohamed Yakcop, a minister in Prime Minister
Najib Razak’s department, was quoted as saying in a Feb. 23
Business Times report. Najib, who must dissolve parliament by
April 28 to call for polls, has embarked on a 10-year, $444
billion infrastructure spending plan.  “A lot of the Economic Transformation Program projects are
going to kick in in a bigger way this year, so that will help to
sustain investments,” said Choong Yin Pheng, senior manager for
fixed income and economic research at  Hong Leong Bank Bhd. (HLBK)  in
 Kuala Lumpur . “In the short-term, people will still very much
be focused on the event risk, which is the elections.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards gained 0.3 percent
for the week and 0.2 percent today to 3.1513 per dollar as of
9:02 a.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. They touched 3.1366, which was the strongest since
Jan. 30. The weekly advance was the biggest since the five days
ended Jan. 11. The contracts to fix an exchange rate in a year’s
time were at a 1.9 percent discount to the spot rate, which was
little changed at 3.0930. Non-deliverable forwards are settled
in dollars.  Malaysia  will tighten rules on the daily setting of a key
dollar-ringgit  reference rate  from today in an effort to boost
transparency and shield the domestic market against
manipulation, according to a draft statement from the Financial
Markets Association of Malaysia obtained by Bloomberg yesterday.  One-month implied volatility in the ringgit, a measure of
expected moves in exchange rates used to price options, fell 17
basis points, or 0.17 percentage point, this week to 6.94
percent. It declined five basis points today.  The yield on the 3.314 percent notes due October 2017 was
little changed from a week ago at 3.22 percent, according to
Bursa Malaysia. The rate fell two basis points today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 