-- Rio, Mongolia Extend Oyu Tolgoi Funding as Talks Continue
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   K o h n
-- 2013-03-01T04:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/rio-mongolia-extend-oyu-tolgoi-funding-as-talks-set-to-continue.html
Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. (TRQ) , the
Rio Tinto Group unit in charge of the  Oyu Tolgoi  copper and gold
project, said construction funding was extended while talks
continue with Mongolia’s government to resolve disputes.  “The Oyu Tolgoi LLC board has approved continued funding
to progress the project,” Vancouver-based Turquoise Hill said
in a statement. “All parties have agreed to continue
discussions during March 2013, with a goal of resolving the
issues in the near term.”  A dispute between Rio and Mongolia escalated this year as
President Tsakhia Elbegdorj called for more control of the $6.6
billion project. The talks extension is crucial for Oyu Tolgoi,
in which Turquoise Hill holds 66 percent, as an interim two-
month budget ended yesterday. Oyu Tolgoi’s annual budget for
2013 has not been approved yet by both parties, Mongolia’s
mining ministry said in a statement posted on its website today.  “The reports of progress between the two shareholders of
Oyu Tolgoi is certainly welcome news,” said Jackson Cox,
founder of Ulan Bator-based consulting firm Woodmont
International. “They aren’t out of the woods yet and as long as
differences remain it will be important for both sides to
redouble efforts so that this critical project can move forward
in confidence.”  Tax Dispute  The conflict over Oyu Tolgoi, which will account for 30
percent of Mongolia’s economy at full production, centers on
cost overruns, financing, taxes and more locals in Oyu Tolgoi
management.  Mongolia temporarily froze Rio’s local bank accounts as
part of a tax dispute, while the company has considered idling
Oyu Tolgoi until all issues are solved, people familiar with the
matter said in January.  Mining minister Davaajav Gankhuyag said yesterday the
government plans to charge Oyu Tolgoi interest on unpaid tax.
The company denies it has any taxes due.  “Our shareholders have been working through a number of
issues, but everyone shares a strong commitment to the success
of Oyu Tolgoi,” Chief Executive Officer Cameron McRae said in a
statement today. “Some of the issues are complex, so it’s
natural that resolution is taking some time.”  Bruce Tobin, a Melbourne-based spokesman for  Rio Tinto ,
declined to comment on the talks with the Mongolian government
and the extension of discussions.  Oyu Tolgoi will begin production as planned by the end of
June, subject to a resolution, Turquoise Hill said in the
statement dated yesterday.  “Oyu Tolgoi producing as planned by the end of June is
definitely a good thing for both entities,” said Vidur Jain, an
analyst at Ulan Bator-based Monet Capital Investment Bank. The
continued talks will “hopefully” produce a framework on how
disputes between the two sides can be avoided in the future, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Kohn in Singapore at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  