-- Rio Tinto Said to Offer Canada Iron-Ore Operations for Sale
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-03-01T21:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/rio-tinto-said-to-offer-canadian-iron-ore-operations-for-sale.html
     March 1 (Bloomberg) -- Rio Tinto Group offered its Canadian
iron-ore operations for sale, according to a person close to the
matter, as the second-biggest mining company seeks asset
disposals to curb costs and bolster its balance sheet.  Rio hired Credit Suisse Group AG and Canadian Imperial Bank
of Commerce to sell all or part of its 58.7 percent stake in
 Iron Ore Co. of Canada , said the person, who asked not to be
named as the process is private. David Luff, a Melbourne-based
Rio spokesman, said he wouldn’t comment on speculation.  Chief Executive Officer Sam Walsh said last month he’ll
continue disposals, noting Rio had already earned $12 billion
from divesting more than 20 projects. The stake in IOC, which
sells to North America,  Europe  and Asia, is valued at $1.8
billion by Investec Bank ( Australia ) Ltd. Labrador Iron Ore
Royalty Income Corp. owns 15.1 percent of IOC and  Mitsubishi
Corp. (8058)  26.2 percent.  “IOC’s ore is mainly sold to contract buyers, which are
mostly the major Chinese mills,” said Lu Xiaojing, a Shanghai-
based analyst with researcher Mysteel.com. “If IOC is looking
for potential buyers in  China , big steelmakers are likely.”  Rio  dropped  2.8 percent to 3,442 pence in London, where
it’s based. The stock fell 1.5 percent to close at A$66.08
earlier in Sydney. Labrador Iron Ore, which relies entirely on
IOC for its income, rose 1.9 percent to C$35.86 in Toronto,
giving it a market value of about C$2.3 billion ($2.23 billion).  Fresh Eyes  IOC’s reserves are sufficient for more than 20 years at
current production rates, according to Rio’s website. The
operation has a mine and pellet-making plant at Labrador City,
Newfoundland. The company also has a 420-kilometer (260-mile)
railway and port at Sept-Iles on the Gulf of St. Lawrence. Rio
acquired the assets through its 2000 takeover of North Ltd.  “I’ll be looking at  existing projects  with a fresh pair of
eyes and considering all alternatives,” Walsh said this week at
a conference in Hollywood,  Florida . “These could include
continuing with the current plan, slowing it down, introducing
new partners or canceling projects altogether.”  Walsh replaced Tom Albanese as CEO on Jan. 17 after his
predecessor quit following a $14 billion writedown on the value
of takeovers. A month later,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the biggest
mining company, also announced the departure of its CEO Marius
Kloppers, who failed to deliver on about $200 billion of
potential acquisitions.  Dow Jones Newswires reported Rio’s possible sale earlier.  BHP’s Sales  Mining companies globally are selling under-performing
assets to help counter rising costs and trim debt. Rio is
simultaneously seeking to sell diamond and aluminum assets. It
agreed in December to dispose of a 57.7 percent stake in
Palabora Mining Co. for $373 million to a group led by Chinese
steelmaker Hebei Iron & Steel Group.  BHP is expected to continue to sell unwanted assets,
Macquarie Group Ltd. analysts wrote in a report yesterday
following a meeting with Kloppers and his successor Andrew
Mackenzie. The Melbourne-based company agreed to sell its 80
percent stake in a Canadian diamond mine for about $500 million.  “Everything and anything is on the table,” Rio’s Walsh
said at the investor conference in response to a question on the
possible sale of IOC. “If there is somebody out there who wants
to value a project greater than we do, then we’ll certainly
consider that. But in response to IOC or response to any
particular asset we’re not going to make any comment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  