-- Rolls-Royce to Tighten Sales Agent Policies Amid Fraud Review
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-03-01T11:16:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/rolls-royce-to-tighten-sales-agent-policies-amid-fraud-review.html
Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/) , Europe’s
largest maker of commercial  aircraft engines , said it will
further tighten controls over sales agents as U.K. regulators
review alleged wrongdoing in Asian deals.  “Work is under way to improve the process for appointment
or renewal of intermediary advisers and consultants,” Ian Strachan, chairman of the London-based company’s ethics
committee, said in Rolls’s annual report. Additional training on
anti-bribery and corruption policies will be undertaken
worldwide this year, he said.  Rolls-Royce disclosed on Dec. 6 that it had notified the
U.K. Serious Fraud Office of “matters of concern” over
activities in China, Indonesia and other markets following an
internal review. It named  David Gold , a member of the House of
Lords and previously a partner at the Herbert Smith LLP law
firm, on Jan. 10 to review anti-corruption procedures.  “The ethics committee spent a good deal of its time in
2012 dealing with concerns about bribery and corruption
involving intermediaries in overseas markets,” Chairman Simon Robertson said in the report. “The board is united in its
resolve not to accept any behavior that undermines this group’s
future success.”  Dick Taylor, a former Rolls-Royce employee in  Asia , has
said sales of commercial  jet engines  in Indonesia were spurred
by bribes.  Strachan said the “enhanced controls” being developed
will address what types of service intermediaries provide, the
“value for money” in using them, and background on the person
including proposed and past payment information. The company has
updated its guidance on anti-bribery rules several times since
2008, he said.  Chief Executive Officer John Rishton said last month that
there has been no effect on deal flow from the SFO disclosure.  Rolls-Royce shares, which fell on the disclosure of the
fraud review, have risen more than 12 percent since the concerns
became public. The stock fell 0.7 percent to 1021 pence at of
11:15 a.m. in  London , valuing the business at 19 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  