-- Royal Bank Joins TD in Business Loans Push: Corporate Canada
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-03-01T16:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/royal-bank-joins-td-in-business-loans-push-corporate-canada.html
 Canadian lenders including  Royal
Bank of Canada  and  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  decided more than a
year ago to target business loans and  wealth management  because
record consumer lending was bound to dry up.  This week’s first-quarter results show the shift is paying
off. Royal Bank, Toronto-Dominion, Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce and  Bank of Montreal  all posted earnings that topped
analysts’ estimates, while three of them raised their quarterly
dividends.  Royal Bank expected “some of that slack to be offset by
stronger growth in the commercial side and that’s what we have
been experiencing,” Chief Executive Officer  Gordon Nixon  said
yesterday in Calgary, where the bank held its annual meeting.  The resilience of the Toronto-based banks even as  Canada ’s
economy slows has bolstered their  share  prices. Royal Bank, TD
and CIBC hit record highs this year.  Canada’s banks, ranked the world’s soundest by the  World
Economic Forum  for the past five years, have targeted small
business lending and mutual fund sales for growth as consumers
curb borrowing. Analysts have predicted a slowdown for home
loans and lines of credit after  household debt  reached a record
165 percent of disposable income in the third quarter.  “I’m not surprised to see such a pickup in business
lending,” said  Tom Lewandowski , a bank analyst at Edward Jones
& Co. in  St. Louis . “I’m more surprised that we haven’t seen a
more significant slowdown in residential and personal lending.”  Retail Banking  Consumer banking represents the largest segment of profit
for Canadian banks, representing over half of Royal Bank’s
C$2.07 billion in net income in the quarter, and almost 70
percent of Toronto-Dominion’s C$1.92 billion in profit.  “The consumer in Canada, we’ve been calling for them to
back off now for two or three years,” Nixon said. “The good
news is we were wrong for a couple of years, but unfortunately
it’s going to happen.”  Royal Bank’s personal and commercial banking profit, which
includes operations in Canada and the Caribbean, climbed 11
percent to C$1.12 billion ($10.9 billion). Results at Canada’s
biggest bank were bolstered by  business banking  revenue, which
has climbed 16 percent in the past two years.  “ Consumer lending  will have an impact on their earnings in
the coming quarters,” said Kash Pashootan, a portfolio manager
with Raymond James Ltd. in Ottawa, who manages C$125 million,
including bank shares. “The question is how will they replace
those earnings, whether in other geographies or other business
lines.”  Records Set  Earnings at Toronto-Dominion’s Canadian bank climbed 11
percent to C$944 million, while its U.S. consumer bank profit
rose 9.4 percent to C$385 million -- both records. TD Bank said
a year ago that it would focus on Canadian corporate lending,
increase the number of business bankers, and recently began
targeting U.S. companies through its TD Securities investment
bank.  In Canada, “I think you’ll see the rates of lending growth
slow down on the personal side,” Toronto-Dominion Chief
Financial Officer Colleen Johnston said yesterday in a telephone
interview.  “An area of huge growth for us, though, has been on
the business banking side. That’s an area where we’ve really
taken a lot of market share.”  CIBC’s consumer and commercial banking profit was C$611
million, a 7.8 percent increase from the year-earlier period.
The lender expects that “demand for business credit should
continue at a healthy growth rate,” according to its statement.  Mutual Funds  Both Toronto-Dominion, the second-largest bank, and CIBC,
the No. 5 bank, cited record mutual fund sales in their
branches, while Royal Bank’s mutual fund revenue jumped 19
percent to C$594 million from the year-ago period.  Lewandowski said that while business banking and increases
to mutual fund sales will help offset any mortgage slowdown, it
may not be able to “pick up the slack for what I think are
going to be some pretty significant headwinds in those personal
loan categories.”  National Bank of Canada (NA) , which also reported first-quarter
results yesterday, said larger competitors continue to compete
for business bank clients in its home province of  Quebec .  “Especially in Quebec, we feel the presence of the
others,” National Bank Chief Financial Officer Ghislain Parent
said today in a telephone interview. Still, “the bank has very,
very strong roots with the corporate world and the commercial
world in Quebec, and that will continue,” he said.  Housing Market  Canada’s housing market has slowed in recent months. New
 home construction   plunged  19 percent in January from December to
the lowest since the end of 2009, while sales of existing homes
fell 8.8 percent from a year earlier.  Recent data suggest the broader economy is weak as well as
the nation’s exporters struggle to sell goods abroad.  Statistics
Canada  releases fourth-quarter growth figures today that are
projected to show output stalled at an annualized 0.6 percent in
the last three months of 2012, according to economists surveyed
by  Bloomberg News .  The slowdown did not show up in Royal Bank’s mortgage
balances. The bank said its average balances for Canadian
residential mortgages was C$175.5 billion in the first quarter.
That compares with C$174.3 billion in the fourth quarter and
C$167.1 billion in the first quarter of 2012.  “Although Canadian banks are entering a potentially
difficult market in 2013, they are building off huge strength
and that they should and will continue to build in the future,”
said Diane Kazarian, Canadian financial services leader at
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, said in an interview. “The theme is
in the new normal ... capitalize on your opportunities. We
believe that they will; they’re smart.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  