-- Ruble Drops to Lowest This Year as Crude Oil Slides on China
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-03-01T15:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/ruble-drops-to-lowest-this-year-as-crude-oil-slides-on-china.html
The ruble sank to its weakest level
this year as oil and global stock markets fell on slowing
manufacturing in  China  and the euro area.  The ruble slid 0.7 percent against the dollar to 30.7600 by
7 p.m. in Moscow, the lowest since December and a 1.1 percent
drop in the week. The currency weakened 0.2 percent to Bank
Rossii’s dollar-euro basket to 34.8787. The yield on the
government’s benchmark ruble bonds due February 2027 climbed
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.21 percent.  Brent crude  fell for a fourth day, declining as much as 1.4
percent to $109.82 a barrel. Data showed China’s manufacturing
slowed for a second month while factory output in the euro area
contracted for the 19th straight month. Oil and natural gas
account for about 50 percent of  Russia ’s government revenue.  Oil’s retreat means the currency of the world’s biggest
energy exporter may have further to fall, Artem Roschin, a forex
trader at Aljba Alliance in Moscow, said by phone.  “With oil at $110 I would expect to see the basket at 35
rubles,” he said.  The end of the monthly tax payment period, when exporters
sell hard currency revenue to buy rubles, will “temporarily
weaken the ruble’s resistance to external factors,”  Rosbank (ROSB) 
analysts led by Vladimir Kolychev said in a note to clients.
Kolychev also forecast the ruble will weaken to 35 rubles versus
the basket, which the central bank uses to smooth exchange-rate
moves that can crimp exporters’ competitiveness.  “The situation on the  currency market  has changed, the
ruble has stopped rising,” Alexandr Ermak, head of research at
Region Broker Co., said by phone. “Ruble instruments are
getting less appealing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  