-- Russia February Manufacturing Grows at Unchanged Pace, HSBC Says
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-03-01T08:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/russia-february-manufacturing-grows-at-unchanged-pace-hsbc-says.html
Russian manufacturing expanded at
the same pace in February as a month earlier, signaling that
growth was “broadly maintained,” HSBC Holdings Plc. said.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index remained at 52 for a second
month after slipping to 50 in December, HSBC said today in an e-
mailed  statement , citing data compiled by London-based Markit
Economics. A value above 50 indicates an improvement in business
conditions, while a result below that suggests a deterioration.
The median estimate of four economists in a Bloomberg survey was
51.25.  Russia , the world’s largest energy exporter, is counting on
domestic demand to shore up growth as  Europe ’s recession saps
demand for exported commodities. Economists cut their estimates
for Russia’s expansion by half a percentage point last month
after industrial output contracted for the first time in more
than three years.  “Manufacturing is still alive and keeps growing
moderately, but fears of uncertain outlook weigh on the sector
performance,” Alexander Morozov, chief economist for Russia at
HSBC in Moscow, said in the statement. “These fears are
somewhat exaggerated, although stagnating export demand gives
reasons for concern.”  New orders grew at a “strong” pace, driven by domestic
orders, according to the statement. New export orders
“stagnated,” in line with a trend since the second half of
last year. Manufacturers cut jobs for a fourth straight month,
though the decline in February was “marginal,” HSBC said.  The  Micex Manufacturing Index (MICEXMNF)  was little changed as of
11:02 a.m. in Moscow, while the broader  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  of 50 stocks
tumbled 0.6 percent to 1,477.11. A close at that level would be
the lowest since Dec. 28.  Russian Railways, the state-run rail monopoly, said today
cargo volumes in February fell 3.2 percent from a year earlier.
Sales of cars and light commercial vehicles are forecast to be
unchanged in February for the second time in four months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  