-- S. Africa Suspends Policemen for Death of Man Tied to Van
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-03-01T09:21:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/s-africa-suspends-policemen-for-death-of-man-tied-to-van.html
South Africa ’s police chief Riah
Phiyega suspended eight officers as it started an investigation
into the death of a  taxi driver  who was dragged behind a police
van.  Policemen overpowered the man, tied him to the back of a
vehicle by his wrists and dragged him through a crowd of people,
footage broadcast on eNews Channel Africa showed. The rights of
Mido Macia, a 27-year-old Mozambican, who later died “were
clearly violated,” Phiyega told reporters in  Pretoria  today.
The station commander at Daveyton, on the eastern outskirts of
Johannesburg, where the incident happened, was also removed, she
said.  “We would like to assure the country, the world, that what
was in the video is not how the South African Police Service in
a democratic South Africa goes about its work,” Phiyega said.
“We fully support the principle of police being policed.”  The Feb. 26 incident follows the death of 34 people at
 Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana platinum mine on Aug. 14. Police officers
opened fire on a group of striking workers, most of whom were
armed with machetes or wooden sticks, at the mine near
Rustenburg following a week of protests in which 10 people,
including two policemen, were killed. Eight policemen were
charged after a protester, Andries Tatane, was shot and beaten
to death by police during a demonstration in Ficksburg in the
central Free State province in April 2011. The incident was
captured by TV cameras.  Excessive Force  The TV footage from Daveyton shows two men in police
uniforms walking behind the car, one of them at times carrying
Macia’s feet, before dropping him as the van speeds out of view.
He later died from head injuries,  Amnesty International  said in
a report yesterday. The Independent Police Investigative
Directorate, which has started a probe, said police tried to
arrest Macia after he refused to move his taxi that was blocking
traffic.  “This appalling incident involving excessive force is the
latest in an increasingly disturbing pattern of brutal police
conduct in South Africa,” Noel Kututwa, Amnesty’s southern
Africa director, said yesterday.  President  Jacob Zuma  and his ruling  African National
Congress  have also condemned the act.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  