-- Sacramento-Based Group Submits Official Bid to Buy NBA’s Kings
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-03-01T21:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/sacramento-based-group-submits-official-bid-to-buy-nba-s-kings.html
A group led by 24 Hour Fitness
Worldwide Inc. founder Mark Mastrov submitted an official bid to
buy the  Sacramento  Kings and keep them from moving to Seattle.  The submission to the  National Basketball Association  was
confirmed in an e-mail by Tim Frank, a spokesman for the league.  Billionaire investor  Ron Burkle , managing partner of
Yucaipa Cos., will lead an effort to develop a new entertainment
and sports complex at the Downtown Plaza Mall in the California
capital, Sacramento Mayor  Kevin Johnson  said last night in his
State of the City speech.  A group headed by Valiant Capital Management founder Chris Hansen that includes Microsoft Corp. Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Ballmer  reached an agreement on Jan. 21 to buy the Kings
from the Maloof family and move the franchise to Seattle. That
accord may value the team at an NBA-record $525 million.  The NBA’s Board of Governors must vote to complete any sale
or relocation of a franchise. The group meets April 18 in New
York, where Johnson will make a presentation. Terms of the
Mastrov group bid weren’t disclosed.  The sports complex in downtown Sacramento would anchor an
economic development and revitalization effort, Johnson said.
Burkle, co-owner of the  National Hockey League ’s Pittsburgh
Penguins, aided in the development of Pittsburgh’s Consol Energy
Center.  “We have an opportunity to transform downtown into a
vibrant hub of economic and cultural activity that will create
jobs and generate a positive economic impact for years to
come,” Burkle said in a statement. “Sacramento has proven time
and time again to be a great NBA market.”  A year ago Sacramento reached agreement with the Kings to
build a new arena. The deal fell through less than two months
later.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  