-- Salmon Hormone May Contain Too Much Cancer Risk
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-03-01T14:27:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/salmon-hormone-may-contain-too-much-cancer-risk.html
A salmon hormone used to treat post-
menopausal osteoporosis may not reduce  bone fractures  enough to
outweigh the drug’s cancer risks, U.S. regulators said.  Three studies on oral, injectable and nasal calcitonin-
salmon formulations sold by  Novartis AG (NOVN) , Upsher-Smith
Laboratories Inc. and other companies showed unreliable or
disappointing results, Food and Drug Administration staff said
today in a  report . Additional research showed the cancer risk
associated with such drugs appears plausible, the staff said.  FDA advisers plan to meet next week to decide if the risks
and level of efficacy mean they should recommend sales of
calcitonin-salmon drugs be discontinued in the U.S. The European
Medicines Agency recommended last year that calcitonin-
containing medicines sold in that region shouldn’t be used to
treat the bone-weakening condition osteoporosis.  “This lack of effectiveness when combined with the
potential for a cancer risk associated with calcitonin salmon
therapy raises concerns about the overall risk and benefit
assessment,” FDA staff said.  Calcitonin is a hormone that increases the amount of
calcium in the bones, while lowering levels in the blood.  Novartis’ Miacalcin was approved in the U.S. in 1986 as an
injection and in 1995 as a nasal spray. U.S. sales of the drug
were about $14 million last year, Julie Masow, a spokeswoman for
the Basel Switzerland-based company, said in an e-mail. About
28,000 prescriptions of Novartis’s Miacalcin were dispensed last
year, a drop from 54,000 in 2011, Masow said.  Closely held Upsher-Smith, based in Maple Grove,  Minnesota ,
makes Fortical, which was approved in 2005.  The European Medicines Agency reviewed data from an
experimental medicine and the approved drugs and determined the
risk of developing cancer was 0.7 percent higher in patients
using an oral formulation being studied and 2.4 percent higher
in patients using the nasal spray compared to those who took a
placebo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  