-- Samsung, Lupin, JetBlue, MLS, AP: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-03-01T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/samsung-lupin-jetblue-mls-ap-intellectual-property.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s bid to
block sales of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPads and iPhones in Japan was
rejected by a Tokyo judge in the continuing global patent fight
between the two biggest smartphone makers.  Tokyo District Court Judge Ichiro Otaka turned down the
request because Samsung hadn’t negotiated “sincerely” with
Apple over licensing data-sending patents, according to a ruling
issued yesterday. The court also said that Samsung doesn’t have
the right to seek damages from Apple.  Samsung is disappointed with the decision, Nam Ki-yung, a
spokesman for the company, said by e-mail.  “We will take the measures necessary to protect our
intellectual property rights,” he said.  Takashi Takebayashi, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Apple,
declined to comment on the ruling.  The two phone-makers are suing each other in dozens of
 cases  worldwide, each using patent litigation to try to force
the other into changing products or ceasing sale of some models.
At stake is the competitors’ share of a mobile-device market
that researcher Yankee Group expects to double to $847 billion
by 2016.  In August, the Tokyo District Court separately ruled that
Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung’s smartphones and a tablet
computer didn’t infringe on an Apple invention for synchronizing
music and video data with servers.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, claimed that the
Galaxy S, Galaxy Tab and Galaxy S II infringed the patent on
synchronization, and sought 100 million yen ($1.1 million) in
damages, according to court documents.  Lupin Loses Appeals Court Bid to Stop Mylan’s Antara Copy  Lupin Ltd. (LPC)  lost its appeals court bid to prevent  Mylan Inc. (MYL) 
from selling a generic version of the drug Antara, used to treat
high cholesterol levels.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit upheld a
lower court ruling that Mylan didn’t infringe two patents to the
medicine, known by its active ingredient fenofibrate. The court,
which didn’t issue a formal opinion, heard arguments Feb. 22 and
posted  notice  of the decision on its website yesterday.  Mylan announced Feb. 25 it had begun selling its version of
the medicine. Lupin, which lost the lower court ruling in
December, received a temporary order to block Mylan sales that
was lifted by the Federal Circuit the same day a three-judge
panel heard arguments on the appeal.  Fenofibrate capsules in the 43-milligram and 130-milligram
dosage forms had $60 million in sales in the 12 months ended
Sept. 30, Mylan said Feb. 25, citing researcher IMS Health.  Nina Devlin, a Mylan spokeswoman, said the company had no
comment on yesterday’s decision. Officials with Lupin’s U.S.
office in Baltimore didn’t immediately return a message seeking
comment.  Mylan’s entry into the market with generic Antara prompted
Bhagwan Chaudhary, an analyst with India Nivesh Ltd., to cut his
rating on Mumbai-based Lupin to “hold” from “buy” and his
target price to 635 rupees from 667.  Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based Mylan said earlier yesterday
it had agreed to buy the injectable medicine unit of India’s
 Strides Arcolab Ltd. (STR)  for $1.6 billion.  The appeals court case is Lupin Atlantis Holdings v. Mylan
Inc., 13-1141, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
The lower court case is In Re: Fenofibrate Patent Litigation,
11md2241, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New
York.  Kraft Sues Meat Packer Over Lunch-Meat Packaging Patent  Kraft Foods Group Inc., maker of Cracker Barrel cheese,
Grey Poupon mustard and Philadelphia Cream Cheese, sued an
Illinois meat packer for patent infringement.  Land O’Frost Inc., of Lansing, Illinois, is accused of
infringing patent 7,172,779, which covers packaging for sliced
food products having a “fluffed” appearance.  According to the complaint filed Feb. 27 in federal court
in Madison, Wisconsin, Land O’Frost products, including those
sold by Kroger Co., infringe the patent. Northfield, Illinois-
based Kraft claims it has been “irreparably harmed” by Land
O’Frost’s actions, and asked the court for awards of money
damages, attorney fees and litigation costs.  The company also seeks an order barring further
infringement of the patent.  Land O’Frost didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment on the suit. Kroger isn’t a party to the
suit.  The case is  Kraft Foods Group Inc. (KRFT) , v. Land O’Frost Inc.,
13-cv-00148, U.S. District Court, Western District of Wisconsin
(Madison).  JetBlue Suit Against Helferich Patent Licensing Moved to Chicago  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU) ’s lawsuit against a patent holder
will be transferred to Chicago from Brooklyn, New York,
according to a Dec. 27 court order.  The New York-based airline sued in federal court Nov. 27,
seeking a declaration it didn’t infringe patents belonging to
 Helferich Patent Licensing LLC  of Chicago.  The Brooklyn court noted that Helferich is involved in
multiple suits in Chicago in which the same patents are at
issue, and said that the “interrelatedness” of those suits and
the one filed by JetBlue weighed in favor of a transfer.  The court did lift a sealing order with respect to some of
Helferich’s business records, saying that the information
Helferich wanted sealed “should not be kept from the public.”  In the initial complaint, JetBlue said that Helferich had
claimed the airline infringed seven U.S. patents and claims
related to four published patent applications. JetBlue said the
infringement claims arose over Helferich’s objections to mobile
telephone use and apps developed by the airline.  JetBlue had asked the court to declare the patents invalid
and uninfringed and said that any claims of infringement are
already addressed by licenses Helferich has with “at least 28
mobile phone manufacturers.”  Among the companies Helferich has sued since 2010 are
 Asustek Computer Inc. (2357) ,  Panasonic Corp. (6752) ,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , Hewlett-
Packard Co.,  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. While most of the cases were filed
in Chicago, others were filed in Arizona. The company’s website
lists 17 patents available for licensing, falling into what
Helferich says is “multimedia delivery technology.”  The case is JetBlue Airways Corp v. Helferich Patent
Licensing LLC, 12-cv-05847, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of New York (Brooklyn).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Soccer Commissioner Says ‘Cascadia Cup’ Dispute Solvable  The commissioner of Major League Soccer said the league
erred in the way it went about filing an application to register
the “Cascadia Cup” trademark, the Seattle Times  reported .  Fan groups from Seattle, Portland and Vancouver, British
Columbia, who own the Cascadia Cup trophy were upset with the
league’s decision to register the mark, according to the Times.  Commissioner Dan Garber said that the league should have
initially called up the caretakers of the trophy to reach a
mutually agreeable decision, the newspaper reported.  He said negotiations with the soccer supporters and their
lawyers are continuing, the Times reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Gannett, Other Newspapers Seek Permission to Join AP’s Suit  Gannett Co. (GCI) , four other newspaper companies and a newspaper
trade group are seeking permission to file a friend-of-the-court
brief in a closely watched copyright case brought by the
 Associated Press .  In a lawsuit filed in federal court in Manhattan in
February 2012, AP accused Meltwater U.S. Holdings Inc. of
infringing copyrights by copying its news articles and
delivering electronically to paying customers “substantial
infringing excerpts” from AP and other publishers’ work.  By doing so, Meltwater is providing its customers with a
product that directly competes with AP, and can undercut the
news service with lower subscription rates because it isn’t
bearing the cost of generating the news coverage, according to
court papers.  In a Feb. 25 filing, the newspapers that are asking to come
into the case said in their proposed brief that it takes no
court filing “for the court to know that the rise of the
Internet has been highly disruptive to the nation’s news
organizations.”  They said they will be unable to protect their revenue
streams if they can’t protect the content they generate “from
wholesale copying and redistribution by free-riders like
Meltwater.”  Kimling Lam, a spokeswoman for Meltwater, said her company
couldn’t comment on the case.  San Francisco’s  Electronic Frontier Foundation , a digital-
rights organization, filed a friend-of-the-court brief in
January on behalf of Meltwater. In that filing, EFF said AP was
asking the court to accept “a woefully cramped view of fair
use.”  The  Computer & Communications Industry Association , a
Washington-based trade group of technology companies, filed a
friend-of-the court brief in January favoring neither party.  The CCIA said in its court papers that its interest was
related to “the potential consequences that this case may have
on the fundamental nature of the Internet as a tool for research
and knowledge.”  The case is the Associated Press v. Meltwater U.S. Holdings
Inc., 12-cv-01087, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  Virgin Media With BT Must Block File-Sharing Sites in U.K.  Virgin Media Inc. (VMED) ,  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ,  BT
Group Plc (BT/A)  and other U.K. Internet service providers must block
access to three music file-sharing sites, a court ruled.  Users and operators of KAT, H33T and Fenopy infringed 10
music companies’ copyrights “on an industrial scale,” Judge
Richard Arnold said in a written ruling handed down yesterday.
The record labels included  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s British unit.  The U.K. music industry has had some success pressing
providers to block or restrict access to so-called BitTorrent
sites to protect dwindling revenues. Last year, a U.K. court
ruled The Pirate Bay, based in Sweden, was used to infringe
copyrights and ordered four ISPs to block it.  “The growth of digital music in the U.K. is held back by a
raft of illegal businesses commercially exploiting music online
without permission,” Geoff Taylor, chief executive officer of
the British Recorded Music Industry group BPI, said in an e-
mailed statement. “Blocking illegal sites helps ensure that the
legal digital market can grow.”  An e-mail sent to the press room of KAT, the full name of
which contains an expletive, didn’t receive an immediate
response.  Virgin Media “supports the clear, legal framework put in
place to protect against copyright infringement and we continue
to comply with court orders specifically addressed to the
company,” the company said in an e-mailed statement.  BT said in an e-mailed statement it has consistently stated
copyright infringement is wrong and copyright holders should use
the courts to enforce their legal rights. It will comply with
the ruling.  The case is EMI Records Limited v. British Sky Broadcasting
Limited, U.K.  High Court  of Justice,  Chancery Division ,
HC12F04958.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 