-- SEC Sues California Man Alleging Real Estate Fund Fraud
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-03-01T00:48:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/sec-sues-california-man-alleging-real-estate-fund-fraud.html
California  businessman Walter Ng,
his business partner and his son were sued today by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission over a multimillion-dollar
fraud on investors in their real estate funds.  Ng and his partner raised more than $85 million from
investors, many residing in  San Francisco , from 2007 to 2009 for
a real estate fund that they said was strong, safe and
successful, the SEC said in a complaint filed today in federal
court in San Francisco. Most of the money was used to pay off
investors in an earlier real estate fund having cash flow
problems. Both funds went into bankruptcy, leaving investors
unlikely to recover their money, according to the complaint.  Ng lured investors to Mortgage Fund ’08 LLC and managed an
earlier fund called R.E. Loans LLC, which made high-interest
loans to developers who repaid the money when traditional
lenders refinanced their projects, according to the complaint.  At its peak, R.E. Loans had more than $700 million in
outstanding commercial real estate loans and thousands of
investors, the SEC said. By 2007 borrower payments slowed and Ng
and others decided to start the new fund, which they said would
invest in commerical real estate loans secured by deeds of
trust. Ng and his partners raised tens of millions of dollars in
California, Oregon and  Washington , according to the complaint.  The SEC seeks disgorgement of investor money and
unspecified civil fines. Ng, of Lafayette, California, filed for
 bankruptcy protection  in 2011, listing assets and debt of as
much as $1 billion each, according to filings in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in Oakland, California.  Ed Swanson, an attorney for Ng, had no immediate comment on
the lawsuit.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Ng,
13-895, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  