-- Serbia to Restart Its Sole Steel Plant After Sale Fails
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-03-01T14:45:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/serbia-to-restart-sole-steel-plant-after-sale-fails-dinkic-says.html
Serbia  plans to restart one furnace
at Zelezara Smederevo d.o.o., its sole steel producer, after NPO
Uralvagonzavod OAO of Russia dropped plans to buy the state-
owned company.  The Balkan country isn’t “giving up the idea of finding a
strategic partner for Zelezara,” Finance Minister  Mladjan Dinkic  said in a phone interview today.  Dinkic met today with Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic  and
President  Tomislav Nikolic  to discuss the future of the company
after Uralvagonzavod, the only investor to have expressed
interest in the Smederevo-based plant, placed no bid by
yesterday’s deadline.  Serbia has been looking for a strategic partner for the
unprofitable steel producer since last January, when  U.S. Steel
Corp. (X)  sold it back to the government for $1. The government will
use Zelezara proceeds from previous product sales to buy raw
materials from companies willing to offer favorable payment
conditions, Dinkic said before meeting with unions today.  The state would also offer workers 80 percent of their full
salary to come back to work, he said.  Unions will make final decisions within a couple of weeks
on a plan that may require an additional 200-250 workers, the
union leader Mileta Gujanicic said after meeting with Dinkic.  “Considering the global situation and the situation in the
region, this proposal” appears “to be acceptable,” he told
reporters in Smederevo, the home to the steel plant 40-
kilometers (25 miles) east of Belgrade.  Raw-Material Purchases  The government has been in talks on raw-material purchases
with Ukraine’s Donetskstal-Metallurgical Plant and  Rinat Akhmetov , the owner of Ukrainian System  Capital Management (NLY) , with
assets in metallurgy, mining and energy while Swiss-based
Duferco SA “has also made an offer,” Dinkic said.  Dinkic, who needs to ensure fiscal consolidation and
restrict government subsidies to unprofitable state-owned
companies, said there will be no need to spend taxpayers’ money.
Zelezara has been tapping proceeds from its previous sales to
pay workers 60 percent of their average wages.  “The idea is to optimize costs at the steel plant” and
set up a “revolving fund” to finance both wages and raw
materials purchases.  Restarting the plant will increase the monthly cost for the
factory to 165 million euros ($214.4 million), or 20 million
euros more than it cost to maintain the idling plant, he said.  Export Giant  With 5,000 workers, Zelezara has been the biggest employer
in Smederevo for years, and during its eight years as a U.S.
Steel unit, it generated 15 percent of the country’s annual
exports. The plant, which makes hot- and cold-rolled steel
products, has an annual production capacity of 2.2 million tons.  Dacic’s seven-month-old government is seeking to curb price
increases and restart growth after the economy contracted an
estimated 1.7 percent in 2012, betting on higher exports of  Fiat
SpA (F)  cars produced in Serbia and more sales of crude oil products
abroad for growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  