-- Soccer Transfer Rights of African Teens Sold to U.K. Company
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-03-01T12:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/soccer-transfer-rights-of-african-teens-sold-to-u-k-company.html
Portugal’s Benfica (SLBEN)  sold the transfer
rights of two soccer players from one of  Africa ’s poorest
countries to a London-based  investment company  for a total of
500,000 euros ($650,000) amid a debate on whether such
arrangements should be allowed.  Benfica sold all of the transfer-market value of striker
 Joao Mario Fernandes  and midfielder  Luciano Teixeira , both 19,
to bearer-share company Robi Plus Ltd. in December, according to
an earnings statement released late yesterday by the Lisbon-
based team. A bearer-share company is a way of shielding the
ownership structure, according to  Richard Murphy , director of
Tax Research LLP.  Soccer ruling body FIFA  is studying whether to change rules
that allow clubs to sell transfer rights to investors who are
betting players will be traded to another team at a higher
price. The practice, banned in the English Premier League and
 France ’s Ligue 1, is allowed in most other national leagues as
long as investors don’t influence trades. Many of the deals are
opaque and investors could seek to move around younger players
against their will, according to Gregor Reiter, chief executive
officer of the German association of soccer player agents.  “We have to draw the line at players becoming a
commodity,” Reiter said by phone last week. Athletes from
Africa and  South America  are particularly vulnerable to
pressure, Reiter said.  Fernandes and Teixeira are from the western African country
of Guinea-Bissau, which is  one of the world’s poorest nations 
with an annual per capita gross national income of $600 and more
than half the country living in poverty, according to the  World
Bank . Both teenagers play for Benfica’s ‘B’ team after joining
the club in the last 18 months.  Transfer Market  Benfica spokesman Ricardo Maia didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail seeking comment about its agreement with Robi Plus,
and calls to his mobile phone and the team press office went
unanswered.  Benfica, which gets 49 percent of its revenue from the
transfer market according to yesterday’s filing, is among
southern European clubs increasingly turning to deals with
investors amid sluggish ticket and sponsorship sales and
difficulty in getting credit from banks. They say investors
can’t force player trades, and are only acting as a credit
facility for teams.  Robi Plus’s director is Maurizio Delmenico, a 58-year-old
Swiss, according to filings at U.K. register  Companies House .
The holder of the share certificate of a bearer-share company is
the recognized owner. Delmenico, a player agent and tax adviser,
said by phone from his office in Lugano, Switzerland, last year
that the company is his own and he set it up in the U.K. because
some of its affairs, including brokering player trades, are
based there.  Delmenico said today he was unable to make an immediate
comment today about the acquisition of the transfer rights of
the two African players.  In December 2011, Robi Plus acquired 10 percent of the
transfer rights of  Porto (FCP)  players Eliaquim Mangala of France and
Belgium’s Steven Defour according to a Porto filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  