-- South Africa’s PMI Rises as Weak Rand Boosts Demand for Goods
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-03-01T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/south-africa-s-pmi-rises-as-weak-rand-boosts-demand-for-goods.html
South Africa’s purchasing managers’
 index  rose in February, showing an expansion in factory output
for the first time in six months, as a weaker rand helped boost
demand for locally produced goods, Kagiso Tiso Holdings said.  The seasonally adjusted index increased to 53.6 from 49.1
in January, Johannesburg-based  Kagiso  said in an e-mailed
statement today. An index level below 50 indicates a contraction
in factory output. The Bureau for  Economic Research , based at
the University of Stellenbosch near  Cape Town , conducts the PMI
survey for Kagiso.  “The significant improvement in new sales orders may
reflect a turnaround in demand for locally-manufactured goods,”
Abdul Davids, the head of research at Kagiso Asset Management,
said in the statement. “Tentative indications of an improvement
in the EU and U.S. economies at the start of this year may have
contributed to the increased demand for manufactured goods and a
sustained recovery in demand will require improved gross
domestic product growth in these regions.”  Africa’s largest economy grew 2.1 percent, more than
expected, in the final quarter of last year as manufacturing and
agricultural output expanded. The rand has this year fallen 6.2
percent versus the dollar, making South African goods more
competitive in the European Union and other overseas markets.
Only the Japanese yen and the British pound were weaker among 16
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The index measuring employment advanced 3.4 points to 45.7,
Kagiso said. The business activity index rose 2.6 points to
52.2, while the new sales orders index increased 9.3 points to
60.2, it said. The price sub-index rose to 86.  South Africa ’s energy regulator yesterday ruled Eskom
Holdings SOC Ltd., the utility that supplies 95 percent of the
country’s electricity, is allowed to raise prices by an average
8 percent in each of the next five years, half the annual
increase it requested.  “The lower-than-expected tariff increases are welcomed and
should assist in improving the sector’s global
competitiveness,” Davids said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  