-- SpaceX Says Cargo Mission to Space Station Back Online
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2013-03-01T22:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/spacex-reports-malfunction-with-space-station-supply-ship.html
The engines on a Space Exploration
Technologies Corp. unmanned spacecraft are working again after a
post-launch glitch that will delay a cargo delivery to the
International  Space Station  by at least a day.  Elon Musk, chief executive officer of the Hawthorne,
California-based company known as SpaceX, announced the engine
problem in a Twitter posting about a half hour after today’s
10:10 a.m. launch of the Dragon craft from  Cape Canaveral ,
 Florida .  Three of the four groups of engines known as thrusters
didn’t initially activate. After the ship orbited in space for
about five hours, SpaceX was able to turn on a second set and
regain control, Musk said. The rest were activated later, he
said.  “It looks like we’re going to be back on track here,”
Musk said during a press conference organized by the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration.  The ship was supposed to link up with the station tomorrow.
That rendezvous was delayed until March 3 at the earliest, said
Michael Suffredini,  NASA ’s program manager for the space
station.  The agency requires at least three sets of thrusters on the
craft to be working to connect with the space station,
Suffredini said.  Fuel Valve  Musk said a preliminary review suggests the malfunction may
have stemmed from a blocked or stuck fuel valve. He announced
that the engines were coming back online about 3 p.m. East Coast
time in a Twitter posting.  “Pods 1 and 4 now online and thrusters engaged,” he
tweeted. “Dragon transitioned from free drift to active
control. Yes!!”  James Oberg, a space consultant in Dickinson,  Texas , and a
former mission-control specialist for NASA, described the
malfunction as a “routine contingency” and one “that all good
flight-control teams prepare for.”  With one set of engines, the supply craft still managed to
successfully deploy its solar arrays, which supply electrical
power.  The craft was launched from a Falcon rocket. It is carrying
more than 1,200 pounds of scientific experiments, food and other
cargo. It’s scheduled to return March 25 with more than 2,300
pounds of equipment.  The mission is the company’s second regular cargo delivery
and third trip to the space station. SpaceX completed its first
resupply mission in October following a test flight in May. The
company has a $1.6 billion contract with the NASA for at least a
dozen resupply flights.  NASA is relying on SpaceX and  Orbital Sciences Corp. (ORB) , based
in Dulles,  Virginia , to help resupply the station after retiring
its shuttle fleet in 2011. The agency depends on  Russia  to carry
astronauts to space at about $63 million per seat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  