-- Spanish Bonds Advance in Week After Italian Election
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-03-03T21:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/spanish-bonds-rise-in-week-on-ecb-faith-after-italian-election.html
(Corrects date of Katainen interview in second paragraph
under ‘Political Stalemate’ subhead.)  Spanish bonds rallied this week, in
spite of a political impasse sending Italian yields to a three-
month high as investors bet the European Central Bank will
prevent a fresh debt crisis in peripheral bond markets.  An inconclusive election in  Italy  sparked concern lawmakers
will fail to form a government, hampering the progress of
austerity measures put in place by the previous administration.
Yet as Italy’s 10-year yields climbed to a three-month high,
those on Spanish, Greek and Portuguese bonds fell on speculation
the ECB will support Italy if borrowing costs surge to
unmanageable levels.  “The political uncertainty in Italy is a real risk but
investors seem to believe that when push comes to shove, the ECB
will save the day,” said Robin Marshall, London-based director
of fixed income at Smith & Williamson Investment Management
Ltd., which oversees $19 billion. “Perhaps that explains why
the Italian impasse hasn’t had much of an impact on other
peripherals’ bonds. Investors are getting a bit more savvy in
assessing individual credit.”  Spain’s 10-year yield fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, over the week to 5.09 percent at 4:48 p.m.
London time yesterday. The 5.4 percent security due January 2023
rose 0.410, or 4.10 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,298) face amount to
102.34.  Greek Bonds  Italy’s  10-year yield  rose 34 basis points to 4.79 percent.
It advanced to 4.96 percent on Feb. 27, the highest since Nov.
15. The yield on similar-maturity Greek debt was 11.02 percent,
down five basis points on the week, and Portuguese two-year
rates slid five basis points to 3.32 percent.  Italian 10-year yields posted their  biggest intraday jump 
since December 2011 on Feb. 26 after the elections delivered a
four-way parliamentary split. Pier Luigi Bersani, the top vote
winner, has resisted any collaboration with former Premier
Silvio Berlusconi and said he would seek to hammer out a
compromise with lawmakers elected under the political movement
of former comic Beppe Grillo. Berlusconi yesterday called for
new elections to be called as soon as possible.  ECB President Mario Draghi unveiled the institution’s bond-
buying plan on Sept. 6, pledging to spend as much money as
necessary to restore confidence in the markets if a member
nation requests help and signs up to economic reforms.  Political Stalemate  Even as some investors shrug off the risk of contagion to
other euro-area bonds, the region’s lawmakers and officials have
warned Italy must find a solution to its political stalemate.  Failure to commit to responsible fiscal policies may
reignite market turmoil and result in losses that would be “too
terrible,” Finnish Prime Minister Jyrki Katainen said in an
interview in Helsinki on Feb. 28.  German lawmaker Klaus-Peter Willsch said if a majority of
Italians cannot be convinced to stand by European Monetary Union
rules, they must be allowed to return to their own currency.  “The Italian election is a wake-up call,” said Marchel Alexandrovich, a senior European economist at Jefferies
International Ltd. in  London . “The political uncertainty there
just reminds the market of implementation and systemic risks
still facing the euro area.”  Bersani told la Repubblica that he ruled out an alliance
with Berlusconi and he plans a program of reforms to attract
votes from all political parties.  No Coalition  A broad coalition government including Berlusconi’s People
of Liberty party “would be the death” of the Democratic Party,
Bersani said. “The hypothesis of a broad coalition doesn’t
exist and will never exist,” he said.  The additional yield investors demand to hold Italian 10-
year bonds instead of similar-maturity German bunds widened 10
basis points to 338 basis points. The so-called spread expanded
to 351 basis points on Feb. 27, the most since Dec. 11.  “We don’t know what will happen next about this election,
but one key development that is very important is that investors
recognize this is a problem of one country, and that’s Italy,
and not the region,” said  Luca Cazzulani , a senior fixed-income
strategist at UniCredit Global Research in Milan. “Perceptions
of risk have changed because there’s more commitment from the
top to safeguard the euro.”  Benchmark bunds rose yesterday, pushing 10-year yields to
the lowest in eight weeks on Feb. 27, as euro-area reports
showing unemployment climbed to a record and manufacturing
shrank boosted demand for the region’s safest securities.  The rate on German 10-year bunds slid four basis points to
1.41 percent yesterday, for a 16 basis-point weekly slide.
 Finland ’s 10-year yield dropped 16 basis points in the week to
1.60 percent.  German government securities returned 1.3 percent last
month, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Italian
securities dropped 1.9 percent and Spain’s rose 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  