-- Sprint Won’t Be Offering BlackBerry’s Flagship Z10 Model
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-03-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/sprint-to-skip-blackberry-s-z10-phone-in-favor-of-keyboard-model.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  will be the only
major U.S. carrier not to offer BlackBerry’s new flagship Z10
touch-screen model when it debuts this month, opting instead to
wait for the keyboard-equipped Q10.  Sprint, the third-largest U.S. mobile-phone service, plans
to offer the Q10 later this year, said Mark Elliott, a spokesman
for the  Overland Park , Kansas-based carrier. That model has a
physical keypad, in addition to a smaller touch screen.  “We aren’t saying there’s anything different about our
customers,” Elliott said. “We think our customers will be
happy with the qwerty keyboard and touch screen on the Q10.”  The move means Sprint won’t be selling the flagship model
of BlackBerry’s new lineup, which is based on the revamped BB10
operating system. BlackBerry, based in Waterloo, Ontario, is
trying to convince customers that a touch-screen device can work
just as well as its traditional keyboard models. Chief Executive
Officer Thorsten Heins said he expects its new touch devices to
outsell keyboard models 3-to-1.  Shares of BlackBerry , formerly called  Research In Motion
Ltd. (BB) , fell 0.8 percent to $13.26 at the close in New York.
Sprint’s stock was unchanged yesterday at $5.80.  The other big U.S. carriers --  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Verizon Wireless 
and  T-Mobile USA  -- have created sign-up pages for customers
interested in getting e-mail alerts about the availability of
the BlackBerry Z10. Exact release dates haven’t been announced  Turnaround Plan  The phone, which has 4.2-inch (11-centimer) screen and more
closely resembles the iPhone and Android devices, is the
linchpin of BlackBerry’s comeback strategy. It was unveiled in
January and has since gone on sale in the U.K., Canada and other
countries.  The U.S. release was delayed until this month because
carriers needed longer to test the device, Heins has said.  The Q10, meanwhile, won’t be available until April at the
earliest, BlackBerry has said. Verizon, the largest U.S.
carrier, said last week that it wouldn’t offer the Q10 until
mid-summer. Sprint’s Elliott declined to say when the carrier
would begin offering the model.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  