-- State Farm Profit Surges to $3.2 Billion as Claims Drop
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   B u n n
-- 2013-03-01T16:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/state-farm-profit-surges-to-3-2-billion-as-claims-drop.html
State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Co., the largest U.S. home and car insurer, said 2012
profit quadrupled as claims costs declined at the unit providing
residential coverage.  Net income for the year increased to about $3.2 billion
from $800 million a year earlier, the Bloomington, Illinois-
based company said today in a statement. Claims costs at the
home unit fell to $13.5 billion from $15.4 billion.  Insurers benefited from lower U.S. catastrophe costs in the
first nine months of 2012 than a year earlier when tornadoes
demolished parts of Tuscaloosa,  Alabama , and Joplin,  Missouri .
Results in the first three quarters cushioned the industry for
losses when superstorm Sandy struck in October.  “In the midst of hail and wind events, western wild fires
and  Hurricane Sandy , State Farm sustained its financial
strength,” the company said in its statement.  State Farm’s net worth, a measure of assets minus
liabilities, climbed to $65.4 billion on Dec. 31 from $60.8
billion a year earlier. The insurer, which is one of the largest
investors in companies including  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  and
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , benefited from a $1.9
billion gain in the value of the stock portfolio of its
property-casualty units.  Revenue rose to $65.3 billion from $64.3 billion in 2011.
State Farm is owned by its policyholders and reports results
once a year.  CEO Compensation  Chief Executive Officer Ed Rust’s compensation climbed
about 4 percent to $9.64 million. The figure is tied to results
spanning three years including customer retention, employee
satisfaction and growth, Scott Callicott, a spokesman for the
insurer, said in an e-mail.  Allstate Corp. (ALL) , the second-biggest home and auto insurer in
the U.S., said last month that annual profit almost tripled to
$2.31 billion.  State Farm, which has no publicly traded debt, reports
results based on state accounting rules for insurers. Publicly
traded insurers must use U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles, making comparisons inexact.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Bunn in  New York  at 
 ebunn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  