-- Sudan Sends Troop Reinforcements to Border State
-- B y   M i c h a e l   G u n n
-- 2013-03-01T10:43:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/sudan-sends-troop-reinforcements-to-border-state.html
Sudan ’s army is sending
reinforcements to southern  Blue Nile  state where government
forces are battling rebels, state media reported.  Three battalions are being dispatched to “strengthen the
security of the state,” the Sudanese Media Centre reported late
yesterday from Khartoum, the capital. One has arrived in
Damazin, the state capital, with the others due in the coming
days, it said.  Fighting between government forces and rebels of the Sudan
People’s Liberation Movement-North broke out in Southern
Kordofan state in June 2011 and spread to Blue Nile. Clashes in
recent months have undermined efforts by the  African Union  to
negotiate an agreement to establish a demilitarized border zone
with South Sudan and allow the south to restart oil exports
through Sudan.  The authorities in Khartoum accuse  South Sudan  of backing
the rebels. The SPLM-N fought alongside South Sudanese forces
during the two-decade civil war that ended with a peace
agreement in 2005 and southern independence in 2011.  Both the government and the rebels reported clashes last
month in the Muffa area of Blue Nile. The fighting on Feb. 14-17
forced 8,000 residents to flee toward the borders with South
Sudan and  Ethiopia , the SPLM-N said in a statement.  Goverment forces killed more than 60 rebels in the
“liberation” of Muffa, Sudanese army spokesman Al-Sawarmi
Khaled said in a statement to the state-run Suna news agency.  A week later, rebels said fighting had spread to Kurmuk, a
town near the Ethiopian border. Khaled denied the reports in a
Feb. 25 phone interview.  Oil Shipments  President Umar al-Bashir’s government has refused to allow
South Sudan to resume oil shipments through its territory as
agreed in September, accusing the authorities in Juba of
continuing to support rebels in Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile.  South Sudan shut down its 350,000 barrels-a-day in crude
production in January 2012 after accusing Khartoum of stealing
$815 million of its oil. Sudan said it took the oil to recover
unpaid transportation and processing fees. That and other
disputes, including over border security, brought the countries
to the brink of war in April.  The oil is pumped mainly by China National Petroleum Corp.,
 Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and India’s ONGC Videsh Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Gunn in Khartoum at 
 mgunn14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  