-- Swedish Krona Gains as Economy Avoids Decline: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   T o b y   A l d e r   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-03-01T13:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/swedish-krona-gains-as-economy-avoids-decline-stockholm-mover.html
Sweden’s krona strengthened the most
against the dollar in over two weeks after the Nordic country’s
economy unexpectedly avoided contraction.  The krona strengthened as much as 1 percent versus the
dollar to 6.4032, its biggest intraday move since Feb. 13, and
traded at 6.4355 as of 2:17 p.m. in  Stockholm . The krona was the
second-biggest gainer against the euro among major currencies
today.  Gross domestic product  was unchanged in the fourth quarter
after expanding a revised 0.3 percent in the prior three-month
period, Stockholm-based Statistics Sweden said today. Annual
growth accelerated to 1.4 percent from 0.7 percent, the agency
said. GDP was estimated to fall 0.8 percent in the quarter and
grow 1.1 percent in the year, according to the median estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  The numbers “indicate that the Swedish economy didn’t dip
as much as had been feared in the fourth quarter and that there
is resistance in the economy,” Richard Falkenhall, a currency
strategist at SEB AB in Stockholm said today. “There is
momentum going forward and we see a recovery of the Swedish
economy, and now from a stronger level.”  Swedish consumers kept up spending in the fourth quarter,
enabling the $500 billion economy, home to truckmaker Volvo AB,
to avoid contracting even as demand falls from the recession-
plagued euro area. The central bank has cut its  main lending
rate  four times since December 2011 to support growth as
companies cut jobs to cope with declining export demand.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toby Alder in Stockholm at 
 talder@bloomberg.net ;
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  