-- Sweden to Support Stabilizing Economy as Risks Remain, Borg Says
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-03-01T13:56:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/sweden-to-support-stabilizing-economy-as-risks-remain-borg-says.html
Sweden’s government will keep up
support of the  economy  as turmoil in the euro area still risks
derailing a recovery, Finance Minister Anders Borg said.  There’s still “a need to support growth,” Borg told
reporters today in Stockholm. “It’s still our intention that
the budget when it’s presented in the autumn should have a
supporting, energizing profile.”  Sweden’s economy  stalled  in the fourth quarter as exports
declined, countering a rise in consumer spending and
investments, the country’s statistics agency said today. There
are signs the economy may return to growth this quarter after a
survey of purchasing managers indicated that the manufacturing
industry expanded in February for the first time since July.  “We’re seeing a stabilization of the Swedish economy,”
Borg said. The PMI reading “is in line with growth of about 1
percent this year and that’s not a strong recovery and, as long
as growth is that slow, we must expect the risk of rising
unemployment,” he said.  The government in December forecast the economy will grow
1.1 percent this year and 3 percent in 2014. The $500 billion
economy expanded 0.8 percent last year, Statistics Sweden said
today.  Political turmoil in  Europe  could derail the recovery as
financial markets are underestimating risks stemming from how
 Italy  will manage its debt-stricken economy, Borg said.  “There’s political uncertainty associated with the
election in Italy, the banking system in Spain and the troubles
in Cyprus and  Greece ,” he said. “‘The danger is not yet over
for the Swedish economy.”  The euro area shrank 0.6 percent in the fourth quarter
after contracting 0.1 percent in the third, according to
preliminary data. That’s the worst performance since the first
quarter of 2009 in the aftermath of the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  Germany ’s economy, Europe’s biggest, also
slumped 0.6 percent in the final three months of last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  