-- Swiss Stocks Rise for Third Week as Novartis, SGS Advance
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-03-01T16:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/swiss-stocks-are-little-changed-amid-u-s-budget-talks.html
Stocks in Switzerland  rose for a
third day as better-than-expected manufacturing data from the
U.S. offset investor concern that spending cuts may slow the
world’s largest economy.  Logitech International SA climbed 1.3 percent after saying
it will cut 5 percent of its worldwide non-direct labor force.
 UBS AG (UBSN)  and Credit Suisse Group AG, the country’s biggest banks,
declined as a gauge of European lenders fell the second-most of
the 19 industry groups on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  advanced 0.1 percent to 7,601.99 at
the close of trading, extending its weekly gain to 0.6 percent.
The measure has risen for six consecutive months, its longest
streak of monthly gains since 2009. The broader Swiss
Performance Index was little changed today.  “Assuming the sequester is not too damaging, we think the
U.S. economy will look better,” Jeremy Hale, head of macro
strategy at Citigroup Inc. in London, told Francine Lacqua on
Bloomberg Television, referring to the spending cuts. “We still
like equities; the big driver here is liquidity from the central
banks.”  The number of shares trading hands on SMI-listed companies
was 32 percent higher than the average of the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded at a faster pace than
forecast in February, reaching the highest level since June 2011
as factories boosted production.  The Institute for Supply Management’s factory  index 
advanced to 54.2, from 53.1 in January, the Tempe, Arizona-based
group said today. The figures exceeded the most optimistic
forecast in a Bloomberg survey in which the median projection
was 52.5. A reading greater than 50 signals expansion.  Budget Talks  U.S. President  Barack Obama  has summoned congressional
leaders to the White House today to discuss the country’s
budget. No additional U.S. congressional action is planned
before the start of the so-called sequester, to be split between
defense and non-defense spending. The across-the-board cuts will
total $1.2 trillion over nine years, with $85 billion taking
effect in the remaining seven months of this fiscal year.  Swiss manufacturing output  expanded at a slower pace than
economists predicted in February. The procure.ch Purchasing
Managers’ Index dropped to 50.8 from 52.5 in January, when
adjusted for seasonal swings, Credit Suisse said. That’s below
the 52.1 median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. A reading above
50 signals expansion.  Logitech Jobs  Logitech (LOGN)  added 8 centimes to 6.41 francs. The world’s
largest maker of computer mice forecast a $12 million to $14
million charge in the fourth quarter of this year due to the
planned job cuts, according to a statement. The company expects
cost savings of $16 million to $18 million in 2014 as a result
of the reductions.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  advanced 1.2 percent to 64.40 francs. The
drugmaker said it received approval for its Ilaris treatment for
patients suffering acute gouty arthritis attacks.  SGS SA (SGSN) , the world’s largest product inspector, gained 1.9
percent to 2,427 francs, its highest price since at least
October 1989. The shares have gained 20 percent this year.  UBS lost 0.8 percent to 14.71 Swiss francs, extending the
stock’s fifth week of declines. Credit Suisse retreated 1.2
percent to 24.80 francs.  Charles Voegele Holding AG (VCH)  slipped 4.9 percent to 15.60
francs after the clothing retailer said it may exit some
European markets to cut losses, including Poland, Hungary, and
the Czech Republic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  