-- U.K. Home Prices Rise for Second Month as FLS Cuts Lending Costs
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-03-01T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/u-k-home-prices-rise-for-second-month-as-fls-cuts-lending-costs.html
U.K.  house prices  rose for a second
month in February as the Bank of England’s credit-easing program
helped lower  mortgage rates ,  Nationwide Building Society  said.  The average cost of a home increased 0.2 percent from
January to 162,638 pounds ($247,000), the Swindon, England-based
customer-owned lender said today. Prices were unchanged from a
year earlier.  Data today may show  mortgage approvals  rose to a one-year
high in January after the central bank’s Funding for Lending
Scheme eased conditions in the home-loan market. While mortgage
approvals are rising, they are still less than half the level in
the decade through 2007. The BOE is counting on the FLS to boost
lending and  bolster an economy  that’s close to slipping back
into a recession.  “The FLS has achieved some success in bringing down
mortgage rates, with encouraging signs of an improvement in
credit availability,” said  Robert Gardner , chief economist at
Nationwide. “While the economic backdrop remains challenging,
there are reasons for cautious optimism that activity will
gather momentum in the months ahead.”  Approvals for home loans probably increased for a sixth
month in January, to 56,500 from 55,785, according to the median
of 19 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The BOE will publish
the figures, along with data on  consumer lending , at 9:30 a.m.
in London.  The Nationwide report also showed that U.K. house-price
growth accelerated to 0.6 percent in the three months through
February from 0.4 percent in the previous three months. Gardner
said progress in the housing recovery is “likely to be gradual,
as stubbornly high inflation will continue to exert pressure on
household budgets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  