-- U.K. Mortgage Approvals Unexpectedly Fell in January, BOE Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-03-01T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/u-k-mortgage-approvals-unexpectedly-fell-in-january-boe-says.html
U.K.  mortgage approvals  unexpectedly
declined in January, indicating continuing weakness in the
housing market.  Lenders granted 54,719 mortgages, down from a revised
55,632 in December, the Bank of England said today in London.
Economists had forecast an increase to 56,500, based on the
median of 19 estimates in Bloomberg News survey, from an
initially reported 55,785. Net mortgage lending rose by 147
million pounds ($223 million), the least since August.  Nationwide Building Society said today that the recovery in
Britain’s property market is “likely to be gradual” as
accelerating inflation squeezes consumers. Bank of England
policy maker Paul Fisher said this week that he noted the
“beginnings of a revival in mortgage activity” thanks to the
central bank’s Funding for Lending Scheme, though the plan’s
impact on credit growth remained uncertain.  “Approvals remain weak compared to long-term norms,”
Howard Archer, an economist at IHS Global Insight in  London ,
said before the data were released. “While we believe that the
economy will pick up gradually as 2013 progresses, we doubt that
growth will be fast enough for some time to come to provide
significant support to the housing market.”  Separate BOE data today showed that overseas investors
increased their holdings of U.K. government bonds for a seventh
straight month in January. Non-residents bought 1.55 billion
pounds more gilts than they sold, after increasing their
holdings by 15.4 billion pounds in December.  Mortgage Weakness  While mortgage approvals have increased in recent months,
they are still only about half the monthly average recorded in
the decade to 2007, when the financial crisis struck.
Nationwide, reporting a 0.2 percent increase in home values in
February, said that while the “economic backdrop remains
challenging, there are reasons for cautious optimism.”  Today’s Bank of England lending data showed that consumer
credit rose by 446 million pounds in January, with credit-card
lending increasing by 99 million pounds. Gross mortgage lending
was 12.3 billion pounds.  In a separate report, the BOE said that U.K. money supply
rose 0.9 percent in January from the previous month. From a year
earlier, M4 fell 0.8 percent. That’s the smallest annual decline
since August 2011.  A measure of M4  money-supply growth  the central bank uses
to assess the effectiveness of its asset purchases accelerated
to a quarterly annualized 5.6 percent from 3.9 percent. The
gauge excludes financial companies that specialize in
intermediating between banks, such as holding companies and non-
bank credit grantors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  