-- U.S. Wins Bid to Limit Disclosure in Kim Dotcom Extradition
-- B y   E d w a r d   J o h n s o n
-- 2013-03-01T06:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/u-s-wins-bid-to-limit-disclosure-in-kim-dotcom-extradition.html
The U.S. won an appeal in its bid to
limit the amount of information it must turn over to
Megaupload.com founder Kim Dotcom in his fight against
extradition from  New Zealand .  The New Zealand Court of Appeal overturned a ruling that
ordered the U.S. to provide extensive documents relating to
Dotcom’s indictment, saying the disclosure would slow
proceedings.  “If suspects were entitled to extensive disclosure of
documents on the basis that they wished to challenge the
evidence at the extradition hearing, the procedure would lose
much if not most of its efficacy,” the Court of Appeal said in
a  summary  of the ruling on its website today.  Dotcom, 39, was indicted in what U.S. prosecutors dubbed a
“mega conspiracy,” accusing his file-sharing website of
generating more than $175 million in criminal proceeds from the
exchange of pirated film, music, book and software files. He
faces as long as 20 years in prison for each of the racketeering
and money-laundering charges in the indictment, with the U.S.
seeking his extradition for a trial in  Virginia .  The amount of documentation ordered to be turned over to
Dotcom was unprecedented in the country or anywhere else for
extradition cases, the U.S. had argued.  Paul Davison, one of Dotcom’s lawyers, said he plans to
appeal to New Zealand’s  Supreme Court , the  Associated Press 
reported.  Germany-born Dotcom was arrested at his home in an
Auckland, New Zealand, suburb in January last year and spent
four weeks in jail before being released to await the
extradition hearing, which is scheduled for August.  The case is between  United States of America  and Kim
Dotcom. Civ 2012-404-3026.  High Court  of New Zealand (Auckland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Johnson in Sydney at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  