-- U.S. May Swap Light Oil for Mexican Crude, Sieminski Says
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h   a n d   E l i o t   C a r o o m
-- 2013-03-01T18:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/u-s-may-swap-light-oil-for-heavy-mexican-crude-sieminski-says.html
The U.S. might consider exporting
light, sweet crude to  Mexico  in a swap for heavy crude,  Adam Sieminski , administrator of the U.S. Energy Information
Administration, said today at a conference in Houston.  Mexico produces mostly heavy crude while its refineries are
set up to run light, sweet oil, Sieminski said. Many U.S.  Gulf
Coast  refiners are configured to run heavy crude while the U.S.
is boosting production of light, sweet oil.  “Some things the executive branch can do, other things
would require legislative action,” Sieminski said in an later
interview. “The president has some flexibility, the Commerce
Department has some flexibility. But it’s a sensitive issue, and
Congress is obviously going to have an opinion.”  Light, sweet crude from the Gulf Coast is already being
exported to Canada, Sieminski said at the Platts North American
Crude Marketing Conference.  Swapping grades with Mexico “certainly makes sense, given
the amount of light sweet crude oil being produced in the United
States,”  Stephen Schork , the president of Schork Group Inc. in
Villanova, Pennsylvania, said by phone. “We have too much of
it. We need more of the heavier, sour Mexican crudes to blend to
get to that optimal medium-sour blend U.S. Gulf Coast refiners
are geared for.”  Federal Requirements  Federal law requires companies to obtain licenses from the
Commerce Department to export crude oil. The department’s policy
is “to approve applications for exports of crude oil to Canada
for consumption or use therein,” according to Commerce’s  Export
Administration Regulations .  Limited amounts of crude oil have been exported to Mexico
and  Costa Rica , according to the EIA’s website.  In 1996, 267,000 barrels of crude were sent to Mexico in
August and September, EIA data show. Crude was exported as late
as May 2012, when 5,000 barrels went to Mexico. The total
shipped to Mexico is 384,000 barrels.  Currently, most of the crude exported goes from the Midwest
to  Canada , according to the EIA’s website. Other exports to
Canada have been from New York, and before 2007, export licenses
were granted to send Alaskan North Slope crude to countries in
Asia including  South Korea .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eliot Caroom in New York at 
 ecaroom@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  