-- U.S. Asks for More Time on China Pork Import Rule, Group Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-01T04:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/u-s-asks-for-more-time-on-china-pork-import-rule-group-says.html
The  U.S. Meat Export Federation  said
shippers to  China , the third biggest buyer of U.S. pork, intend
to comply with a new requirement that products have test reports
showing they are free of the additive ractopamine.  The group also continues to press China, the largest
consumer of pork, to delay today’s implementation date because
exporters weren’t given enough notice and some shipments already
in transit won’t meet the requirement, Joel Haggard, the group’s
Asia-Pacific vice president, said by e-mail yesterday.  China’s quality watchdog, the General Administration of
Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine delivered the
notice to U.S. agencies in Beijing last week, Haggard said.
Ractopamine is a feed additive used to add lean muscle in
livestock, according to the U.S. Meat Export Federation.  The watchdog, in a  statement  on its website yesterday, said
“starting March 1, importers or representatives of U.S. meat,
when reporting imports of U.S. pork at the customs of the port
of entry, shall provide a report by a certifying organization
with qualifications showing no residue of ractopamine is
detected.”  Hog futures for April delivery rose 0.2 percent to 81.175
cents a pound on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange at 11:40 a.m.
in Beijing. The price dropped 9.4 percent last month, the most
since July.  China  imported  9,658 tons of pork from the U.S. in January,
according to the Beijing-based customs authority. The data don’t
account for so-called variety meats, including pig feet and ears,
shunned by U.S. consumers and popular in China, which help
American hog suppliers raise their profitability, according to
Haggard.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brett Miller  at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  