-- U.S. January Personal Income and Spending (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2013-03-01T13:37:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/u-s-january-personal-income-and-spending-text-.html
Following is the text from the U.S.
personal income and spending report released by the Commerce
Department.  Personal income decreased $505.5 billion, or 3.6 percent, and
disposable personal income (DPI) decreased $491.4 billion, or
4.0 percent, in January, according to the  Bureau of Economic
Analysis . Personal consumption expenditures (PCE) increased
$18.2 billion, or 0.2 percent. In December, personal income
increased $353.4 billion, or 2.6 percent, DPI increased $325.7
billion, or 2.7 percent, and PCE increased $14.8 billion, or 0.1
percent, based on revised estimates.  Real disposable income decreased 4.0 percent in January, in
contrast to an increase of 2.7 percent in December. Real PCE
increased 0.1 percent, the same increase as in December.  The 4.0 percent decrease in January DPI mainly reflected the
effect of special factors, which boosted employee contributions
for government social insurance in January and which had boosted
wages and salaries and personal dividends in December. Excluding
these special factors and others, which are discussed more fully
below, DPI increased $37.6 billion, or 0.3 percent in January,
after increasing $38.6 billion, or 0.3 percent, in December.  This news release presents revised estimates of wages and
salaries, personal taxes, and contributions for government
social insurance for July through September 2012 (third quarter).
These estimates reflect the incorporation of newly available
third-quarter wage and salary tabulations from the quarterly
census of employment and wages from the Bureau of Labor
Statistics.  Wages and salaries  Private wage and salary disbursements decreased $44.8 billion in
January, in contrast to an increase of $49.1 billion in December.
The January level of private wages and salaries was reduced by
$15.0 billion (at an annual rate) in January, after a boost of
$30.0 billion in December, reflecting the impact of accelerated
bonuses in anticipation of changes to individual income tax
rates. Goods producing industries’ payrolls decreased $3.3
billion in January, in contrast to an increase of $9.8 billion
in December; manufacturing payrolls decreased $3.3 billion, in
contrast to an increase of $5.4 billion. Services-producing
industries’ payrolls decreased $41.5 billion, in contrast to an
increase of $39.3 billion.  Government wage and salary disbursements increased $1.1 billion,
compared with an increase of $0.8 billion. Pay raises for
military personnel added $1.9 billion to government payrolls in
January.  Other personal income  Employer contributions for employee pension and insurance funds
increased $3.2 billion in January, compared with an increase of
$3.0 billion in December.  Employer contributions for government social insurance increased
$2.7 billion in January, compared with an increase of $3.7
billion in December. The January estimate reflected increases in
the social security taxable wage base (from $110,100 to
$113,700), in the  tax rate  paid by employers to state
 unemployment insurance , and in employer contributions for the
federal unemployment tax and for pension guaranty; together,
these changes added $5.9 billion to January. (Changes in
employer contributions for government social insurance do not
affect personal income, because employer contributions for
government social insurance are also included in total
contributions for government social insurance, which is a
subtraction in the calculation of personal income.)  Proprietors’ income increased $6.3 billion in January, compared
with an increase of $7.3 billion in December. Farm proprietors’
income increased $4.9 billion, in contrast to a decrease of $0.8
billion. Nonfarm proprietors’ income increased $1.4 billion,
compared with an increase of $8.1 billion.  Rental income of persons increased $11.2 billion in January,
compared with an increase of $1.3 billion in December. Personal
income receipts on assets (personal interest income plus
personal dividend income) decreased $365.5 billion, in contrast
to an increase of $273.8 billion. The level of personal dividend
income was reduced $81.0 billion in January (at an annual rate),
after a boost of $291.0 billion in December, reflecting
accelerated and special dividend distributions paid in December;
these adjustments reflected the impact of expected changes to
individual income tax rates. For additional information, see the
FAQ on “How would special and accelerated dividends affect the
national income and product accounts in the fourth quarter 2012?”
at www.bea.gov.  Personal current transfer receipts increased $7.0 billion in
January, compared with an increase of $20.7 billion in December.
The January estimates of current transfer receipts reflected
1.7-percent cost-of-living adjustments to social security
benefits and to several other federal transfer payment programs;
together, these changes added $15.2 billion to the January
increase. The January change in social security benefits to
persons was reduced by lump-sum payments, which had added $7.0
billion to December; these benefit payments resulted from a
recalculation of the earnings base underlying the benefits for
recent retirees.  Contributions for government social insurance -- a subtraction
in calculating personal income --increased $126.7 billion in
January, compared with an increase of $6.3 billion in December.
The January estimate reflected increases in both employer and
employee contributions for government social insurance. The
January estimate of employee contributions for government social
insurance reflected the expiration of the “payroll tax holiday,”
that increased the social security contribution rate for
employees and self-employed workers by 2.0 percentage points, or
$114.1 billion at an annual rate. For additional information,
see FAQ on “How did the expiration of the payroll tax holiday
affect personal income for January 2013?” at www.bea.gov. The
January estimate of employee contributions for government social
insurance also reflected an increase in the monthly premiums
paid by participants in the supplementary medical insurance
program, in the hospital insurance provisions of the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act, and in the social security
taxable wage base; together, these changes added $12.8 billion
to January. As noted above, employer contributions were boosted
$5.9 billion in January, so the total contribution of special
factors to the January change in contributions for government
social insurance was $132.8 billion.  Personal current taxes and disposable personal income  Personal current taxes decreased $14.0 billion in January, in
contrast to an increase of $27.6 billion in December. The
January change reflected additional taxes paid on accelerated
income distributions in December. Payments of final settlements
and back taxes less refunds in Federal net nonwithheld income
taxes reduced the January change by $3.4 billion, based on the
Office of Tax Analysis projections. Indexation provisions of
current tax law reduced federal withheld income taxes by $1.4
billion in January.  Disposable personal income (DPI) -- personal income less
personal current taxes -- decreased $491.4 billion, or 4.0
percent, in January, in contrast to an increase of $325.7
billion, or 2.7 percent in December.  Personal outlays and personal saving  Personal outlays -- PCE, personal interest payments, and
personal current transfer payments --increased $22.0 billion in
January, compared with an increase of $13.3 billion in December.
PCE increased $18.2 billion, compared with an increase of $14.8
billion.  Personal saving -- DPI less personal outlays -- was $283.9
billion in January, compared with $797.4 billion in December.
The personal saving rate -- personal saving as a percentage of
disposable personal income -- was 2.4 percent in January,
compared with 6.4 percent in December. For a comparison of
personal saving in BEA’s national income and product accounts
with personal saving in the Federal Reserve Board’s flow of
funds accounts and data on changes in net worth, go to
 http://www.bea.gov/national/nipaweb/Nipa-Frb.asp .  Real DPI, real PCE and price index  Real DPI -- DPI adjusted to remove price changes -- decreased
4.0 percent in January, in contrast to an increase of 2.7
percent in December.  Real PCE -- PCE adjusted to remove price changes -- increased
0.1 percent in January, the same increase as in December.
Purchases of durable goods decreased 0.8 percent in January, in
contrast to an increase of 1.3 percent in December. Purchases of
motor vehicles and parts accounted for most of the decrease in
January. Purchases of nondurable goods increased 0.3 percent in
January, compared with an increase of 0.1 percent in December.
Purchases of services increased 0.3 percent, in contrast to a
decrease of less than 0.1 percent.  PCE  price index  -- the price index for PCE increased less than
0.1 percent in January, in contrast to a decrease of less than
0.1 percent in December. The PCE price index, excluding food and
energy, increased 0.1 percent, compared with an increase of less
than 0.1 percent.  2012 Personal Income and Outlays  Personal income increased 3.5 percent in 2012 (that is, from the
2011 annual level to the 2012 annual level), compared with an
increase of 5.1 percent in 2011. DPI increased 3.3 percent,
compared with an increase of 3.8 percent. PCE increased 3.7
percent, compared with an increase of 5.0 percent.  Real DPI increased 1.5 percent in 2012, compared with an
increase of 1.3 percent in 2011. Real PCE increased 1.9 percent,
compared with an increase of 2.5 percent.  Revisions
Estimates of personal income and DPI have been revised for July
through December; estimates for PCE have been revised for
October through December. Changes in personal income, current
dollar and chained (2005) dollar DPI, and current-dollar and
chained (2005) dollar PCE for November and December -- revised
and as published in last month’s release.  Estimates of wages and salaries were revised from July through
December. The revision to third quarter wages and salaries
reflected the incorporation of the most recently available BLS
tabulations of the third-quarter wages and salaries from the
quarterly census of employment and wages. Revised estimates for
October, November, and December reflect extrapolations from the
revised third-quarter level of wages. In addition, revisions to
November and December reflect revised BLS employment, hours, and
earnings data.  * * * Next release - March 29, 2013 at 8:30 A.M. EDT for
Personal Income and Outlays for February  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department.     http://www.bea.gov   To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  