-- UN Says Erdogan ‘Wrong’ to Link Zionism With Fascism
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-03-01T16:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/un-says-erdogan-wrong-to-link-zionism-with-fascism.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
and United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon criticized
Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  for comments linking
Zionism with fascism.  “The secretary-general heard the prime minister’s speech
through an interpreter,” Ban Ki-moon’s office said in an e-
mailed statement today. “If the comment about Zionism was
interpreted correctly, then it was not only wrong but
contradicts the very principles on which the Alliance of
Civilizations is based.”  Kerry, who’s visiting Ankara, said he raised the comments
directly in his meeting with Turkish counterpart Ahmet
Davutoglu. Such remarks are unhelpful to the search for peace in
the  Middle East , Kerry told reporters in the Turkish capital.
Kerry was headed for a meeting with Erdogan after the press
conference.  Turkey’s ties with  Israel , once a close military ally, have
been strained since Erdogan called Israel’s military operation
in Gaza that began in December 2008 “a crime against
humanity.” Ties reached a low when nine Turks were killed in an
Israeli commando raid on a Gaza-bound aid ship in 2010.  “Just like Zionism, anti-Semitism and fascism, it becomes
unavoidable that Islamophobia must be regarded as a crime
against humanity,” Erdogan said during the Fifth Global Forum
of the Alliance of Civilizations in Vienna on Feb. 27.  ‘Mendacious Statement’  The comment was condemned by Israeli Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  late yesterday. “This is a dark and
mendacious statement the likes of which we thought had passed
from the world,” Netanyahu said, according to a statement from
his office.  Kerry said that the U.S. is working to help repair the
Turkey-Israel relationship, and that Turkey has expressed
“genuine” willingness to do so.  Davutoglu said Turkey isn’t anti-Semitic and that Erdogan’s
comments were a reaction to “hostile attitudes” from Israel.
Since the raid on the Gaza ship, “instead of remedying the
situation, they have been very insistent on adopting the
attitude they always have, trying to legitimize their
behavior,” he said at the Ankara press conference with Kerry.  Former Israeli Ambassador to  Turkey  Gabby Levy described
Erdogan as a “fundamentalist” who “hates us religiously” in
a 2009 meeting with former U.S. Ambassador James F. Jeffrey in
Ankara, according to a cable sent from the U.S. embassy in
October that year and released by WikiLeaks.  The countries downgraded diplomatic ties to the level of
charge d’affaires in September 2011 after Turkey asked top
Israeli diplomats to leave and withdrew its ambassador over
Israel’s refusal to apologize for the killings on the ship.  In November, Turkey put four former Israeli officers,
including ex-chief of staff Gabi Ashkenazi, on trial in absentia
for the killings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  