-- Undercover U.K. Police Mustn’t Have Sex With Targets, Panel Says
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-03-01T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/undercover-u-k-police-mustn-t-have-sex-with-targets-panel-says.html
Undercover U.K. police should not
have sex with suspects they’re keeping under surveillance, a
panel of lawmakers said, after several such relationships by
officers, including one that resulted in a child.  Prosecutors halted criminal proceedings in 2011 against six
people who’d been due to stand trial on charges related to a
conspiracy to sabotage a power station. Police had failed to
disclose the fact that an undercover officer, Mark Kennedy,
who’d been sent to infiltrate the environmental campaign group,
had a long-term sexual relationship with a female activist.  Parliament’s cross-party Home Affairs Select Committee
condemned the relationship and other similar cases in a report
published in  London  today. The panel noted media reports that
several police officers had long-term, intimate relationships
with members of groups they’d infiltrated. One was reported to
have fathered a child, while another undercover officer was
reported to have planted a bomb for an animal-rights group.  “We do not believe that officers should enter into
intimate, physical sexual relationships while using their false
identities undercover without clear, prior authorization, which
should only be given in the most exceptional circumstances,”
the committee said. “In particular, it is unacceptable that a
child should be brought into the world as a result of such a
relationship, and this must never be allowed to happen again.”  The panel, headed by opposition Labour Party lawmaker Keith Vaz, invited some of the women who had relationships with
undercover officers to testify in private.  ‘Impacted Seriously’  “I have, for the last 13 years, questioned my own judgment
and it has impacted seriously on my ability to trust, and that
has impacted on my current relationship and other subsequent
relationships,” the panel cited one witness, whom it didn’t
identify, as saying.  Another witness was quoted as saying that psychological
damage was caused to both police and the women they targeted.  Current legislation to protect individuals being watched is
inadequate, as the methods used are “a far more intrusive form
of surveillance than any listening device or hidden camera,”
the lawmakers said.  “The impact of the conduct of undercover officers on the
women with whom they had relationships has been devastating, and
it represents a wholly improper degree of intrusion by the state
into the lives of individuals,” Vaz said in an e-mailed
statement.  “We recognize the system can be improved,” the Home
Office said in an e-mailed statement. “The Home Office is
already working with the police and others to implement
recommendations” that have been made.  ‘Lawful, Ethical’  The  Association of Chief Police Officers’  head of crime,
Chief Constable Jon Murphy, said that “used correctly,”
undercover policing “is lawful, ethical, necessary and
proportionate.”  “But it is also one of the most challenging areas of
operational policing and can have considerable impact on public
confidence,” Murphy said in an e-mailed statement. Police now
undertake greater training, he said.  In its report, the lawmaker panel also condemned what Vaz
described as the “ghoulish and disrespectful” practice of
undercover officers developing cover stories by “plundering”
the identities of dead infants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  