-- Matolcsy to Focus on Growth, Inflation at Hungary Bank
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-03-01T14:28:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/hungary-set-for-central-bank-switch-amid-policy-debate.html
Gyorgy Matolcsy, the architect of
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban’s self-styled unorthodox
policies that helped push the economy into recession, vowed to
focus on growth and fight inflation as central bank chief.  Matolcsy, who has urged the Magyar Nemzeti Bank to embrace
unconventional monetary tools to stimulate the economy, will run
the bank through 2019, Orban said on state radio today. Mihaly Varga, 48, who led talks with the International Monetary Fund,
will replace him at the helm of the  Economy Ministry .  Orban is shifting Matolcsy to the central bank as he faces
elections next year and wants to jumpstart the economy after
sacrificing growth to keep the budget gap within 3 percent of
gross domestic product. Matolcsy, 57, engineered policies that
compounded the effects of the euro-area crisis as Hungary
slipped into its second recession in four years.  “The central bank can support the government’s economic
policy and help achieve the aims of growth and employment if
that doesn’t threaten price and financial stability,” Matolcsy
told lawmakers during a hearing in Budapest today, without
specifying the tools he may use.  The forint strengthened 0.3 percent to 294.55 per euro at
2:47 p.m. in Budapest today, rising the most since Feb. 25. The
currency has lost 1.1 percent against the euro this year. The
yield on the 10-year government bond fell 11 basis points to
6.22 percent. The benchmark BUX stock index dropped 0.5 percent
to 18,722.47.  Policy Independence  Orban and Matolcsy spearheaded the government’s criticism
of the central bank under outgoing President  Andras Simor ,
drafting a central bank law that the European Central Bank said
undermined monetary-policy independence before the Cabinet
compromised to amend it. Simor’s mandate ends March 3.  Policy makers delivered seven consecutive quarter-point
rate cuts, bringing the benchmark to 5.25 percent, matching the
lowest on record. Simor and his two deputies have opposed the
easing, citing inflation faster than the central bank’s 3
percent target and the limited impact on lending and economic
output.  The new central bank leadership should “bravely” turn to
“unorthodox” monetary-policy tools to create growth, including
as many as 16 policies the ECB and the U.S. Federal Reserve used
for stimulus while containing inflation, Matolcsy said Dec. 22,
without elaborating.  Forint Reaction  The comments sparked a weakening of the forint to a seven-
month low against the euro and prompted Commerzbank AG on Feb. 7
to call Matolcsy the currency’s “bogeyman.” Matolcsy’s
ministry on Jan. 14 blamed Nouriel Roubini for the drop, saying
it was triggered by a trading recommendation from Roubini Global
Economics LLC.  Matolcsy later toned down his comments, saying the MNB
should pursue “conservative” policy, avoid “surprises,” and
“absolutely not” engage in budget financing, the Wall Street
Journal reported Jan. 30.  That “has helped ease market concern,” Siddharth Kapoor,
a strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in  London , said in by e-mail
today. “Ultimately, I think the government wants to ease policy
and at the same time let the forint deteriorate in a controlled
manner.”  Matolcsy may start with “more accepted” tools to
stimulate the economy, including providing cheaper credit for
new lending following the Bank of  England , Zsolt Kondrat, an
economist at Bayerische Landesbank’s MKB unit in Budapest, said
by e-mail today.  ‘Serious Risk’  “We don’t think this will produce significant results and
therefore we see a serious risk that in the absence of an
economic upswing the central bank will move to deploy more risky
tools, pushing for excessively low interest rates, which may
cause a drastic devaluation,” Kondrat said.  The MNB can trim its interest costs by reducing the
benchmark rate, as long as it doesn’t undermine inflation-
fighting efforts, Matolcsy wrote in response to a lawmaker’s
question, the state-run MTI news service reported yesterday.
Central bank reserves should only be used to guarantee
stability, he  wrote  to another lawmaker.  The new MNB leadership may try to boost credit by offering
funds to banks at preferential rates or limiting the amount
commercial banks can hold in two-week deposits at the central
bank, London-based  Morgan Stanley (MS)  economist Pasquale Diana said
Feb. 25 after meeting officials in Budapest. Banks may also
receive tax breaks from  Europe ’s highest bank levy to spur
lending, Diana said.  ‘Maneuvering Room’  There may also be “maneuvering room” on foreign-currency
reserves as their level is “extraordinarily high,” ruling-
party parliamentary leader Antal Rogan said Dec. 1.  Adam Balog, a deputy state secretary for tax issues in
Matolcsy’s ministry, will also join the central bank as a third
vice president. He also told lawmakers today that monetary
policy can help growth if this doesn’t threaten its inflation
target. He said he will make sure the staff is under “proper
management.”  Boosting growth through monetary stimulus would damage the
economy and the MNB’s credibility at a time when investments are
plunging because of the government’s unpredictable policies,
Simor said Jan. 17.  New Strategies  The financial crisis that followed the 2008 collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. forced monetary authorities around
the world to weigh fresh strategies to generate economic growth
as nations run out of room to ease fiscal policy.  A proposal for central banks to adopt a target of nominal
GDP, aired by BOE Governor-designate Mark Carney in December,
was discussed on the sidelines of the Group of 20 finance
ministers in Moscow last month, Russian official Ksenia Yudaeva
said Feb. 21.  Matolcsy was the “least risky choice” for Hungary’s
central bank president, Orban said today, adding that he wanted
to nominate someone with government experience to the post.  The market “appears to have priced in” that Matolcsy will
take over as central bank president next week, K&H Alapkezelo,
the Budapest-based fund management unit of  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , which
manages $3.5 billion, said Feb. 25. That, coupled with further
rate cuts, may keep the forint near 300 per euro in the first
half of the year, it said.  Simor was named central bank chief by Orban’s Socialist
predecessor Ferenc Gyurcsany in 2007 and the two collaborated to
negotiate an IMF bailout as the post-Lehman credit crunch
engulfed the country.  Simor clashed with the administration that took office in
2010 over monetary policy. The Cabinet criticized him for not
doing enough to stimulate growth, while the central bank has
said government measures helped push the economy into recession.  Economic Policy  Under Matolcsy’s guidance, Hungary effectively nationalized
privately managed pension-fund assets, forced banks to swallow
exchange-rate losses on foreign-currency mortgages and enacted
retroactive industry levies to close budget holes after the
introduction of a flat personal-income tax.  The direction of economic policy won’t change under Varga,
Orban said today, adding that he wanted to further reduce the
single personal income tax rate to 10 percent, from 16 percent.
The conditions are currently not appropriate for that step,
Orban said.  A flood of global liquidity helped  Hungary  return to
international debt markets on Feb. 12 after a near two-year
absence, allowing Orban to break off talks with the IMF on a
loan. The Washington-based lender had conditioned aid on the
government adapting pro-growth policies, which the Cabinet
rejected.  “This was an enormous coup, a real economic-policy
turnaround,” Matolcsy wrote yesterday in the Heti Valasz weekly
magazine, referring to Hungary’s success at narrowing the budget
gap and averting the need to resort to IMF aid. “An era is
coming to end for Hungarian economic policy at the beginning of
2013.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  