-- Uribe Says Colombia Wants CPI Back at 3% in ‘Prudent’ Time
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-03-01T18:34:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/uribe-says-colombia-wants-cpi-back-at-3-in-prudent-time-1-.html
Colombia ’s central bank wants to get
inflation back up to the midpoint of its target range over a
“prudent” period of time, Central Bank Governor Jose Dario Uribe said.  “What we want is monetary policy actions that, over a
prudent amount of time, return  inflation  to 3 percent,” Uribe
said today in an interview in Cali.  Uribe has cut  borrowing costs  six times since June, citing
weaker domestic growth and slowing inflation. The effect of 1.5
percentage point of interest rate cuts over the last eight
months will take time to affect growth, Uribe said.  Asked whether inflation at the lower end of its target
range gives the central bank room to continue cutting borrowing
costs, Uribe said, “monetary policy actions begin their
transmission process immediately, but they affect economic
variables over time, and don’t affect growth and prices
immediately, so we need to take that into account.”  Consumer prices rose 2 percent in January from a year
earlier, the slowest inflation in nearly three years. Colombia
targets annual inflation of 3 percent, plus or minus one
percentage point.  Policy makers cut  interest rates  a quarter point, to 3.75
percent, at their Feb. 22 policy meeting, saying that the
economy is growing slower than its potential. The central bank
forecasts growth of 2.5 percent to 4.5 percent this year, up
from a forecast of 3.3 percent to 3.9 percent in 2012. Colombia
has the lowest interest rates among major Latin American
economies.  The suspension of three of Colombia’s coal complexes could
have an impact on first quarter gross domestic product,
depending on the duration of the shutdowns, Uribe said.  Workers began a strike Feb. 7 at the Cerrejon mine owned by
 BHP Billiton Plc (BLT) ,  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and  Anglo American Plc. (AAL)  Drummond
Inc.’s coal loading license was suspended from Feb. 6 to Feb. 28
after it dumped coal into the sea in January, while the
operating contract at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s La Francia mine
was terminated.  Yields on peso bonds due in 2024 fell two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 4.99 percent, according to the central
bank. The yields declined to 4.97 percent on Feb. 22, the lowest
since the securities were issued in 2009.  The peso was virtually unchanged at 1,812.75 per  U.S.
dollar . It has weakened 2.5 percent this year, the biggest fall
among major Latin American economies after the Venezuelan
bolivar and the Argentine peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  