-- USDA Says Horse Slaughter Plants May Open After Ban Lifted
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-03-01T23:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/usda-says-horse-slaughter-plants-may-open-after-ban-lifted-1-.html
The U.S. will be legally obligated
to inspect horse-slaughtering plants if Congress doesn’t act to
reinstate a ban on the killing of the animals, which would only
be used in meat for export, the  Department of Agriculture  said.  Congress last year lifted the ban established in 2006 that
prevented horse slaughter in the U.S., Michelle Saghafi, a USDA
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement today. While no
plants are currently authorized to slaughter horses, “several
companies” have asked that the  USDA Food Safety and Inspection
Service  re-establish inspections, the agency said.  “These companies must still complete necessary technical
requirements and FSIS must still complete its inspector
training, but at that point, the department will legally have no
choice but to go forward with inspections, which is why we urge
Congress to reinstate the ban,” according to the USDA
statement, which did not give a time frame on when inspections
would occur.  The first horse-slaughtering plant may be approved in the
next two months, according to A. Blair Dunn, a lawyer for Valley
Meat Co., owner of a plant in Roswell,  New Mexico . The  New York 
Times reported the possible approval earlier today.  Lawsuit Filed  Valley Meat filed a lawsuit against the USDA and FSIS in
October and alleged that the USDA was violating the Federal Meat
Inspection Act by failing to offer inspection for horse meat,
Dunn, who is based in  Albuquerque , New Mexico, said in a
telephone interview. The law states that the USDA must appoint
inspectors to examine “all amenable species,” which include
horses, before slaughter, Dunn said.  This week, the  Justice Department  asked for another 60 days
to respond to the lawsuit, Dunn said. The request was made so
“USDA can make sure all the components are in compliance in
order to issue a grant of inspection,” according to Dunn.  The
USDA has notified Valley Meat that the company has completed all
of its requirements to move forward, Dunn said.  Once approved, Valley Meat will sell the horse meat for
export, Dunn said. They’d be open to selling domestically if
there is a market, he said.  FSIS doesn’t allow imports of horse meat from other
countries to the U.S. for human consumption, Cathy Cochran, a
spokeswoman for USDA Food Safety and Inspection Service, said in
an e-mailed statement. Also, none of the countries or companies
in the European Union that have recently recalled beef because
of non-disclosed horse meat ship beef to the U.S., she said.  European Withdrawals  In  Europe , retailers withdrew products such as frozen beef
burgers, lasagnas and meat balls from the shelves after the
discovery of horse meat in products in several countries, after
the initial case in Ireland in mid-January. The European Union
has ordered immediate testing across the region for equine DNA
in beef products and the veterinary drug phenylbutazone in horse
meat.  “The meat and poultry inspection process in the U.S. puts
FSIS inspectors carrying out our mandatory inspection
requirements in U.S. plants every day they operate and at ports
of entry inspecting products that come into our country,”
Cochran said in the statement.  The agency also conducts “port-of-entry reinspections”
for imported products, and that offers evidence on how other
country’s inspection systems are working, she said. In addition,
there are yearly reviews of countries that export to the U.S. to
make sure they are “at least equivalent” to the U.S. process,
she said. FSIS also conducts on-site regulatory system audits at
least once every three years in nations that ship to the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  