-- Vietnam Bonds Have Best Week Since January on Cash: Hanoi Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-01T10:02:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/vietnam-bonds-have-best-week-since-january-on-cash-hanoi-mover.html
Vietnam ’s two-year bonds completed
their best week since January on speculation banks are investing
idle cash in government debt as an economic slowdown curbs
demand for loans. The dong was little changed.  The yield on the notes due 2015 dropped 20 basis points,
the most since the five days ended Jan. 18. The  overnight
interbank deposit rate  dropped for a second week, falling two
basis points to 1.92 percent, according to daily fixings by
banks compiled by Bloomberg, signaling adequate funds in the
financial system.  “Demand for bonds is still high due to sufficient
liquidity, so it dragged the yield down,” said Nguyen Thi Ngoc
Anh, head of fixed-income trading at Asia Commercial Bank in Ho
Chi Minh City.  The two-year yield  dropped two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, today to 8.40 percent, according to a daily
fixing from banks compiled by Bloomberg. The three-year yield
fell 11 basis points this week.  Money supply rose 3.3 percent as of Feb. 21 from the end of
December, with total deposits in Vietnamese banks rising by 1.84
percent in the same period, according to a government statement
yesterday. Lending growth may be slow in the first few months of
2013 because of economic challenges, Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung said in his New Year message posted on the government’s
website on Jan. 1.  The dong strengthened 0.1 percent today to 20,935 per
dollar as of 4 p.m. in Hanoi, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency weakened for a third week, losing 0.2
percent.  The central bank set its  reference rate  at 20,828,
unchanged since Dec. 26, 2011, according to its website. The
currency is allowed to trade as much as 1 percent on either side
of the fixing.  Gold Auction  Vietnam’s central bank held its first trial auction today
to sell gold bullion to companies to ensure sufficient supplies
of the precious metal and help keep the dong’s exchange rate
stable, according to statement on the government’s website.  The monetary authority may buy gold from the domestic
market after June 30 to increase foreign-exchange reserves, Dau
Tu newspaper reported today, citing Nguyen Quang Huy, head of
the central bank’ currency management department. The central
bank expects domestic prices of the metal to drop by end of June
after commercial banks meet their gold position requirements,
the paper said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  