-- Soybeans Drop on Ample South Ameroca Supply; Grains Rise
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-03-01T22:42:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/wheat-set-for-longest-rally-in-six-weeks-on-higher-u-s-sales.html
Soybean futures fell for the first
time in three days on speculation that an accelerating harvest
in  South America  will leave ample global supplies. Corn and
wheat rose.  Celeres, an Uberlandia, Brazil-based research company, said
the soybean harvest was 28 percent complete as of Feb. 25.
Output may reach a record 83.5 million metric tons as the
country overtakes the U.S. as the world’s biggest exporter, the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture  has said.  “Harvest is marching along quickly, and that means more
supplies will be reaching the world markets,”  Mark Schultz , the
chief analyst for Northstar Commodity Investment Co. in
Minneapolis, said in a telephone interview.  Soybean futures for May delivery fell 0.6 percent to close
at $14.435 a bushel at 2 p.m. on the  Chicago  Board of Trade. The
price, down less than 0.1 percent this week, has dropped 9.8
percent since the end of September.  The number of ships scheduled to load soybeans at ports in
Brazil rose to 136 today from 116 a week earlier, according to
research companies SA Commodities and Unimar Agenciamentos
Maritimos.  “Shipping delays are less important because capacity to
load ships is better than it was a few years ago,” Shultz said.  Increasing vegetable-oil supplies in China will curb demand
for soybean imports, said  Dale Durchholz , the senior market
analyst for AgriVisor LLC in Bloomington, Illinois.  Palm-oil inventories rose 130,000 tons to a record 1.22
million, Grain.gov.cn, a Chinese state-owned research company,
said today.  Wheat futures for May delivery rose 0.8 percent to $7.205 a
bushel in Chicago. This week, the price climbed 0.2 percent,
snapping a six-week slump.  Corn futures for May delivery advanced 0.7 percent to
$7.085 a bushel, the fifth straight gain. This week, the price
climbed 3.5 percent, the most since mid-January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  