-- White & Case, Haynes & Boone, Weil: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-03-01T12:23:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/white-case-haynes-boone-weil-business-of-law.html
White & Case  LLP hired five
Linklaters LLP  capital markets  lawyers in Paris, all of whom
join the firm as partners. Philippe Herbelin, Cenzi Gargaro and
Séverin Robillard were partners at Linklaters. Gilles Endréo,
formerly a partner at Linklaters, though now a consultant
according to White & Case, and Thomas Le Vert, an associate,
also join White & Case as partners.  The new hires are among 21 partners the firm has added to
its global capital markets practice since 2011, including hiring
former Latham & Watkins partner Michael Immordino that year and
opening a Milan office to support his practice.  “Investing in our global capital markets practice is one
of our strategic priorities,” White & Case Chairman Hugh Verrier said in a statement.  Among White & Case’s recent capital markets transactions
were Intesa Sanpaolo’s $3.5 billion bond issuance; Unipol Gruppo
Finanziario’s 1.1 billion euro ($1.4 billion) rights issue;
Outokumpu Oyj’s 2.7 billion euro acquisition of Inoxum, and the
206 billion euro restructuring of Greek debt, the largest
sovereign debt restructuring in history, the firm said.  Linklaters has two remaining capital markets partners in
Paris, according to its website.  “We wish the team well. We have a very strong capital
markets practice globally and we have plans in place for its
continued development,” a firm spokeswoman said in an e-mail.  White & Case also hired  New York  mergers and acquisitions
partner Daniel Dufner from Linklaters last month. He had
previously been a partner at White & Case before leaving in 2009
for Linklaters.  White & Case has lawyers in 38 offices across 26 countries.  News  FTC’s Edith Ramirez Chosen by Obama as Agency’s Chairman  Edith Ramirez, a campaign official for President  Barack Obama  and one of his law school classmates, was named to head
the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, where she has been a
commissioner for almost three years.  Ramirez, 44, an intellectual property lawyer, served as an
editor of the Harvard Law Review in 1990 and 1991 when Obama was
its president. In 2008, Ramirez, who is Mexican-American and
bilingual, was the Obama campaign’s Latino outreach director in
 California . She has been on the commission since April 2010.  “She’s not as much of a known quantity as some others, but
she has a reputation for being smart and extremely capable,”
said Jonathan Kanter, an antitrust lawyer with Cadwalader,
Wickersham & Taft LLP.  Ramirez has kept a low profile as a commissioner compared
with some of her colleagues, including fellow Democrat Julie Brill, who was also mentioned as a potential chairman in
publications such as the Hill.  A graduate of  Harvard University  and  Harvard Law School ,
Ramirez was an associate at Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP and a Los
Angeles-based partner at Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP
before Obama tapped her for the FTC.  At Quinn Emanuel, she specialized in complex business
litigation, including intellectual property, unfair competition
and trademark disputes.  For more, click here.  Partners Asked to Pay More So Firms Borrow Less From Banks  Law firm partners are being asked to pay more in the form
of capital infusions, as leaders shift their firm financing away
from bank dependence, The American Lawyer found in a survey of
large law firms.  The magazine interviewed dozens of leaders of the highest-
grossing U.S. firms, and found that the movement toward internal
financing has been gaining over a five-year period as a result
of the recession and the law firm failures that resulted.  The magazine confirmed the details of the capital increases
at 20 firms and found that seven don’t borrow at all from banks.
They include Dechert LLP, Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP, K&L Gates
LLP, Day Pitney LLP, Perkins Coie LLP, Morgan, Lewis & Bockius
LLP and Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP, according to the article.  To read more about the survey,  click here .  Investors Filed Fewer Suits Disputing Deals in 2012, Study Finds  Shareholders filed fewer lawsuits challenging mergers and
acquisitions last year, the second year in which the number of
such investor suits has declined, according to a study.  Research by  Stanford Law School  and  Cornerstone Research 
found shareholders filed 602 lawsuits over deals valued at more
than $100 million in 2012, down from 742 the previous year. The
percentage of deals litigated remained the same at 93 percent.
Shareholders sued in 96 percent of M&A deals valued at more than
$500 million, averaging more than five lawsuits for each deal,
according to the study released today.  “It is not plausible to think that 96 percent of target
boards did a bad job selling the firm,” Robert Daines, a
professor at Stanford Law School who helped conduct the study,
said in a statement. “Plaintiffs must be filing on cases where
there is no underlying problem.”  Global M&A transactions fell almost 8 percent to $2.23
trillion last year, with the deal count falling 4 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The decline came amid
recession fears in  Europe  and the standoff over $600 million in
automatic U.S. government spending cuts and tax increases, known
as the fiscal cliff.  Plaintiffs agreed to settle most of the lawsuits that were
consolidated for litigation, according to the study. More than
80 percent of those settled cases resulted only in additional
disclosures to shareholders, and no cash payout, according to
the report.  Awards of attorney’s fees in disclosure-only cases declined
to an average of $540,000 in 2012, from $570,000 in 2011.  The average attorney’s fee in all settlements was $725,000,
the researchers said. Of the 27 fee amounts disclosed, only
three were more than $1 million. The largest was $3.9 million
awarded in the Amerigroup Corp. litigation in which shareholders
challenged  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) ’s $4.9 billion buyout of the managed-
care company.  For more, click here.  Deals  Mylan to Buy Strides Injectables Division for $1.6 Billion  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and Slaughter and
May are advising  Mylan Inc. (MYL) , the second-biggest stand-alone
generic drug-maker, which agreed to buy the injectable medicine
unit of  India ’s  Strides Arcolab Ltd. (STR)  for $1.6 billion as it
targets becoming among the top three global providers.  The sellers legal advice came from DSK Legal, Haynes &
Boone LLP, Herbert Smith Freehills LLP and Pinheiro Neto
Advogados.  The Skadden team includes partners: Marie Gibson, mergers
and acquisitions; Eric Cochran, mergers and acquisitions; Tim Sanders, tax; Lorenzo Corte, cross-border transactions; Matthew Zisk, intellectual property and technology; Hal Hicks, tax;
Erica Schohn, executive compensation and benefits; and  David Schwartz , labor and employment law.  Slaughter and May corporate partner Gary Eaborn also worked
on the deal.  Haynes and Boone’s team on behalf of Strides Arcolab
included partners Jeff Wolfson, Lou Solomon, Vicki Martin-
Odette, and Eric Williams.  The Herbert Smith Freehills team who advised Strides
Arcolab  was led by London corporate partners Alan Montgomery
and Robert Moore, with specialist advice from partners Isaac
Zailer on tax issues and Andre Pretrious on competition issues.  Pinheiro’s team for Strides Arcolab was led by Miguel
Tornovsky.  The cash deal for Agila Specialties will add new markets
and increase Mylan’s diluted earnings-per-share immediately, it
said in a statement. The Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based company
will finance the deal with an unsecured bridge loan of $1
billion and may pay Strides a further $250 million based on
certain conditions, it said. The shares of the Indian drugmaker
slumped.  The agreement will broaden Mylan’s portfolio of off-patent
injectable medicines that are in high demand because of
shortages in the U.S., where the  Food and Drug Administration 
 listed  more than 120 medicines in short supply as of Nov. 28.
The shortages, which include the sedative injection propofol and
the ovarian cancer treatment Doxil, are caused by manufacturing
issues and decisions by companies to stop production of some
generic therapies.  Strides plans to distribute as much as $800 million to
shareholders and also pay off debt, according to a company
statement. The Bangalore-based company had debt of 11.89 billion
rupees ($221 million) as of June 30, according to  data compiled 
by Bloomberg.  For more, click here.  Litigation  Weil Lawyers for ESPN Win 3 of 4 Claims in Contract Dispute  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  lost three of four claims it brought
against  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN over terms of a sports
programming contract as a jury awarded Dish only $4.85 million
of the $153 million it had sought. Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP
litigation partners Diane Sullivan and David Yohai led the team
for ESPN.  Satellite service Dish, the third largest pay-television
provider, sued ESPN in 2009 for violating a so-called most-
favored-nation clause in their distribution agreement, which it
said requires the sports network to offer Dish the same terms it
offers a competitor. The 10-person jury in  Manhattan  federal
court reached its verdict in its second day of deliberations.  “ESPN promised Dish that no other distributor had better
rate terms or packaging terms than Dish was receiving under the
contract,”  Barry Ostrager , of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, a
lawyer for Englewood, Colorado-based Dish, told the jury in his
summation Feb. 27. “ESPN made a calculated decision to not
offer the same terms to Dish.”  ESPN argued that it eventually granted Dish the terms
offered to competitors and that Dish was seeking better contract
terms than its competitors.  “The contract provides for fairness,” Diane Sullivan, the
lawyer for Bristol, Connecticut-based ESPN, told the jury in her
closing argument. “Dish doesn’t want fairness. Dish believes
the fairness clause entitles them to a far better deal than any
other distributor.”  TV distributors pay ESPN and other cable programmers fees
based on ratings and the number of subscribers. According to the
media research firm SNL Kagan, ESPN charges TV providers about
$5.13 a month per subscriber, one of the highest rates in the
industry.  The case is Dish Network LLC v. ESPN Inc., 09-06875, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Video  BigLaw Growth is Dead: Bruce MacEwen Says What’s Next  The era of ever-expanding revenues and profits for the
nation’s largest law firms -- a period that lasted from 1980 to
2008 -- is over, and it’s never going to happen again, law firm
consultant Bruce MacEwen tells Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia.  Big law firms are now “in a battle for market share,” he
says. Corporate clients have recognized they have pricing power
over firms and “we’re never going back.” For firms to succeed
today, “we’re going to require people all up and down the food
chain in biglaw to ... work more hours,” MacEwen says.  MacEwen blogs at Adam Smith Esq.
( http://www.adamsmithesq.com ) and recently published a book
called “Growth is Dead.”  Click here for the link to the video.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 