-- William Hill Hits 5-Year High on Control of Online: London Mover
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2013-03-01T12:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/william-hill-hits-5-year-high-on-control-of-online-london-mover.html
William Hill Plc (WMH) , a U.K. operator of
more than 2,300 betting shops, rose to its highest price since
November 2007 after saying it will take full control of its
online operation in a deal with  Playtech Ltd. (PTEC)   The shares advanced as much as 8 percent to 437.1 pence,
the biggest intraday gain since July, and were up 7.6 percent at
11:58 a.m. in  London . More than 6 million shares changed hands,
about 2 1/2 times the three-month daily average.  “The exercising of the  call option  is welcome as it gives
the group full strategic control over the business,” Gavin Kelleher, an analyst at Goodbody who recommends buying the
stock, said in a note. “Mobile continues to be a driver.”  William Hill is exercising an option to acquire Playtech’s
29 percent stake in William Hill Online, the London-based
company said today in a statement. It joins retail gambling
firms including  Ladbrokes Plc (LAD)  in expanding online betting as
more customers use mobile phones and the Internet to place bets.
 New Jersey  approved online betting this week, raising investor
expectations that more U.S. states will allow the practice.  Playtech shares fell as much as 5.7 percent, the biggest
intraday decline since June, even as Chief Executive Officer Mor Weizer said he was “delighted” with the offer. Playtech is
receiving a “full valuation” for its stake in William Hill
Online and has plenty of cash to propel further growth, he said
in a phone interview.  Rights Issue  Taking control of the digital division is a “compelling
opportunity to strengthen the group,” William Hill Chief
Executive Officer Ralph Topping said today on a conference call
with journalists. “The shape of the group in future is a
possible 50/50 split between land-based and online.”  William Hill said it plans to raise 375 million pounds in a
fully underwritten rights issue to pay for full control of the
online business, which had an “outstanding performance in
2012.” The company also said its acquisition of  Sportingbet Plc (SBT) 
is on track to be completed by March 19.  “We believe that the two deals transform William Hill into
a fast growing online operation and there remains scope for
further multiple expansion,”  Greg Johnson , an analyst at Shore
Capital who recommends buying the stock, said in a note.  William Hill’s online revenue gained 27 percent in 2012
from a year earlier, while sales at retail shops rose 6 percent,
it said today. The company beat analysts’ estimates for
operating profit and full-year sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  