-- Worst Losers Turn Winners in Illinois Repayment Bet: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-03-01T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/worst-losers-turn-winners-in-illinois-repayment-bet-muni-credit.html
Illinois ’s deteriorating finances
are tainting debt from issuers across the fifth-biggest U.S.
state, drawing investors to the extra yield on top-rated  Chicago 
revenue bonds and borrowings of local school districts.  As municipal  interest rates  fell toward generational lows
in the past year, Schroder Investment Management North America
bought sales-tax bonds sold by Illinois, Chicago and the agency
running the biggest U.S. convention center. All have AAA ratings
from Standard & Poor’s and yields twice as high as benchmark
munis, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The money manager favored those bonds over Illinois general
obligations, which are graded lower than any U.S. state, as
lawmakers failed to fix the nation’s weakest pension system and
amassed $9 billion in unpaid bills. The penalty extends to local
school districts, drawing buyers such as Wells Capital
Management.  “In Illinois, pretty much every bond there now is trading
with a penalty,” said Eric Friedland, head of muni research in
New York at Schroder, which manages $2 billion of munis. He
spoke at a Bond Buyer conference this week in Fort Lauderdale,
 Florida .  ‘Best Purchases’  “Some of the best purchases we’ve made this year have been
based on this ‘guilt-by-association’ trade,” said Friedland,
who correctly predicted in January that the state’s credit would
be cut.  Illinois is the latest state to face heightened scrutiny in
the $3.7 trillion municipal market after the worst recession
since the 1930s. After Jefferson County,  Alabama , filed the
biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy in November 2011, buyers
demanded about 0.25 percentage point more from issuers in the
state.  California  yield  spreads  widened to a six-month high in
July after Stockton, California, became the biggest U.S. city to
file for Chapter 9 protection.  S&P downgraded Illinois Jan. 25 to A-, six steps below AAA,
after lawmakers were unable to produce a plan to shore up the
state’s pensions, which have just 39 percent of assets needed to
cover projected obligations. The state of about 13 million
delayed a general-obligation sale five days later.  Improving Revenue  Sales-tax debt from Illinois has gotten caught up in the
state’s financial spiral, even though the revenue tallied about
$1.7 billion in the third quarter, the highest for the period
since 2007, according to data from the state.  Sales-tax-backed bonds issued by Illinois in 2009 as part
of its Build Illinois program were valued this week at a yield
spread about 2 percentage points above benchmark munis, BVAL
pricing show. That’s about 33 percent wider than revenue debt
sold by the New York State Dormitory Authority with the same
rating and maturity, the data show. Illinois securities aren’t
tax-exempt at the state level.  The rating cut “woke people up” to look for opportunities
in bonds that sold off along with the state, said Wendy Casetta,
a portfolio manager in Menomonee Falls,  Wisconsin , at Wells
Capital, which oversees about $32 billion in munis.  The company is looking to increase its Illinois holdings,
and bought school-district debt in the last six months of 2012,
she said.  McCormick Place  In Chicago, the third-most-populous U.S. city, yield
spreads on some sales-tax debt are about 1.8 percentage points,
BVAL data show.  The gap is even higher for the Metropolitan Pier &
Exposition Authority, which owns the Chicago convention center
McCormick Place. Some debt sold for the complex yields about 2.4
percentage points more than AAAs, according to BVAL pricing.  The bonds are penalized even as Illinois’s economy shows
signs of improving. The state jobless rate fell 1 percentage
point in the year through December to 8.7 percent, outpacing the
nation’s 0.7 percentage point drop, according to Labor
Department data. The national rate was 7.8 percent.  Illinois legislators have proposed changes to the state’s
pension systems, including a bill to make the 2011 income-tax
increase permanent and direct the funds toward retirement
payments. Such steps mean Illinois probably won’t be lowered to
the BBB level, Friedland said.  “As soon as the market sees some progress, as little as it
may be, then spreads are going to begin to tighten” on Illinois
general-obligations, which could reduce penalties on other debt
from the state, he said.  Until then, Schroder plans to buy the sales-tax securities
“whenever we can find them,” he said.  Following is a pending sale:  TEXAS’S LOWER COLORADO RIVER AUTHORITY plans to issue $308
million of revenue bonds as soon as March 5 through competitive
bid, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Proceeds will refund debt,
according to bond documents. (Added Feb. 28)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  