-- WPP Profit Rises as Margins Improve on Digital Investments
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-03-01T10:36:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/wpp-profit-rises-as-margins-improve-on-digital-emerging-markets.html
WPP Plc (WPP) , the world’s largest
advertising company, said 2012 earnings increased as the
business boosted investment in digital and  emerging markets  and
profit margins improved.  Profit before interest and taxation rose 7.1 percent to
1.53 billion pounds ($2.3 billion), matching analysts’ average
estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Sales advanced 3.5 percent to
10.4 billion pounds, the London-based company said in a
statement today.  WPP, which owns the  Ogilvy & Mather  and Young & Rubicam ad
agencies, has acquired digital advertising assets and companies
in developing markets such as China and  Brazil  in recent years
to counter slower and saturated markets in the west. Chief
Executive Officer  Martin Sorrell  said today that while clients
had more confidence in 2012, greater economic and political
uncertainty meant they were unwilling to take further risks.  “We see little reason, if any, for this pattern of
behavior to change in 2013, with continued caution being the
watchwords,” he said in the statement.  The shares were unchanged at 1,054 pence as of 10:30 a.m.
in  London . The stock has advanced 19 percent this year, giving
the company a market value of 13.3 billion pounds.  ‘Client Confidence’  WPP clients last year were unwilling to take risks in slow-
growth markets and instead focused on fast-growing areas,
Sorrell said in a phone interview.  “The irony is that companies are in better positions than
in 2008 with more cash but the situation is there are all
these” areas of economic and political uncertainty, he said.  Like-for-like revenue in January 2013 rose 2 percent, ahead
of budget, and WPP is targeting full-year like-for-like sales
and gross margin growth of about 3 percent, according to the
statement.  Sorrell said he expects “increased client confidence” in
2013 to balance the lack of a major event such as the Olympics
or a  U.S. presidential election . He said next year shows signs
of promise with the soccer  World Cup  in Brazil and Winter
Olympics in Sochi,  Russia .  Billings fell “slightly” to 44.4 billion pounds in 2012,
reflecting the strength of sterling, WPP said. Revenue in
western Europe dropped 2.6 percent, while sales rose 7.7 percent
in the U.K. and gained 4.7 percent in  North America .  Billings  The company last year made 65  acquisitions . WPP said it has
a budget of 300 million pounds to 400 million pounds a year to
buy small and medium-sized targets.  WPP said it has a long-term target to deliver revenue and
gross-margin growth exceeding the industry average, including
acquisitions. WPP also aims for growth in annual profit before
interest and taxation of 10 percent to 15 percent.  The global advertising industry is predicted to grow by 4.1
percent to $518 billion this year, led by developing markets,
Publicis Groupe SA-owned ZenithOptimedia said last month.
 Internet advertising  will increase 15 percent in 2013, while
traditional media will grow 1.7 percent, according to the market
researcher.  Speaking about consolidation in the advertising industry,
Sorrell added it was “inevitable” that French competitor
Publicis would merge with New York-based advertising company
Interpublic Group of Cos. at some point.  He also said spending was rising fastest among government
clients, followed by automotive, oil and personal care. Spending
was slower among customers in the computer, drinks and
electronics industries, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  