-- Yale Panel Unites USADA’s Tygart, Landis in Fight Against Doping
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-03-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/yale-panel-unites-usada-s-tygart-landis-in-fight-against-doping.html
U.S. Anti-Doping Agency head Travis Tygart said a truth-and-reconciliation program will help cycling
to emerge from its era of doping.  “Until we’ve done an amnesty-type program and cleaned out
the system as much as we can, it’s not yet time for zero
tolerance,” Tygart said yesterday during a panel about doping.
“It continues to foster the code of silence.”  Tygart was joined for the discussion at Yale Law School in
New Haven,  Connecticut , by former cyclists Floyd Landis and
Jonathan Vaughters, who have confessed to performance-enhancing
drug use throughout their careers.  “The panel is an idea that we can get some bright young
kids with outside perspective to take a look at the approach
that’s been taken, how it’s worked and how it hasn’t,” Landis
said in an interview prior to the session.  The U.S. government has joined a whistle-blower lawsuit
brought by Landis that accuses former teammate Lance Armstrong
of defrauding the government by using banned drugs while riding
for the U.S. Postal Service team. Landis, who lost his 2006 Tour
de France title for doping, declined to address the case.  USADA in August wiped out Armstrong’s record seven Tour de
France wins and banned him from competing in Olympic-level
sports for life. After previously denying doping, Armstrong told
Oprah Winfrey in January that he cheated throughout his career.  Several Confessions  While investigating the sport, Colorado Springs, Colorado-
based USADA obtained doping confessions from several cyclists,
many of whom said they didn’t trust the system in which they
raced, Tygart said. It’s a system Tygart said he’s trying to
dismantle.  “This was not just about athletes, and that was why we
gave every rider, not just Armstrong, the opportunity to come in
and sit down and be part of that solution,” Tygart said.  Armstrong said on Feb. 20 that he won’t participate in the
probe by testifying to everything he knows about doping in the
sport.  The “single biggest issue” in the fight against doping is
funding, said Tygart.  Vaughters, who is president of the International
Association of Professional Cycling Teams, said pro racing
squads are required to put “an absurdly low figure” of
$200,000 aside for anti-doping, though teams want to be sure
their money is being properly used before offering more.  Protecting Victims  The sport must look to protect people who were victimized
by cheating, Tygart said.  “There were people who were in that culture and didn’t do
it, and worse there were people who had a chance to be in that
culture and walked away,” Tygart said. “We’ve got to find a
way to protect those people.”  Vaughters, a 39-year-old who now manages the Garmin-Sharp
racing team, said the sport “by and large, is clean” now.  “Keeping it that way is a very delicate proposition,” he
said.  Vaughters, also a former Armstrong teammate, said Garmin-
Sharp was built with confessed ex-dopers such as David Millar
and Christian Vande Velde as well as young riders who know
little about the sport’s past.  It also helps to have confessed cheats sharing a speaking
engagement with the top doping crusader in the U.S., Vaughters
said.  “It’s a good sign,” he said in an interview after the
session ended. “If we’re all sitting at the same table saying
the same thing, that’s a lot of progress from where it was 10
years ago.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  