-- Yen’s Four Decade Climb Versus Dollar Over, Ex-MOF’s Utsumi Says
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2013-03-01T07:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/yen-s-four-decade-climb-versus-dollar-over-ex-mof-s-utsumi-says.html
The yen’s protracted climb against
the dollar over the past four decades is over, said Makoto Utsumi, a former top Japanese currency official.  The yen gained more than 370 percent from August 1971, when
U.S. President  Richard Nixon  took the U.S. off the gold standard
and Japan subsequently dropped its currency peg, and its record
level of 75.35 per dollar in October 2011. It’s since dropped
about 19 percent, accelerating losses after Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe’s  Liberal Democratic Party  came to power in December
on pledges to weaken the yen and end deflation.  The long-term direction of the yen is less about Abe than
it is about the fall of the  Soviet Union , which vastly expanded
the population of people connected to the global economy, Utsumi
said in an interview yesterday.  “Higher demand made primary commodities more expensive,
while increased competition pushed down prices of the final
products,” said Utsumi, 78,  Japan ’s former vice finance
minister for international affairs from 1989 to 1991 and now
president of Japan Credit Rating Agency Ltd. “Japan is a
commodity importer and a product exporter, so its terms of trade
got worse and worse.”  By contrast, conditions are improving for the greenback,
according to Utsumi. Manufacturing is returning to the U.S. from
 China , and the emergence of shale oil and gas could make it an
energy exporter in a decade, he said.  “The dollar’s strength is its availability, and its hard
to imagine its value would suffer a major decline long term,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  