-- Zloty Advances, Bonds Yields Rise After 4Q GDP Data
-- B y   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-03-01T10:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/zloty-advances-bonds-yields-rise-after-4q-gdp-data.html
The zloty hit a six-week high and
yields on two-year  government bonds  jumped after fourth-quarter
economic growth rose more than expected, curbing the need for
further interest rate cuts.  The Polish currency strengthened 0.2 percent to 4.1432 per
euro at 10:47 a.m. in Warsaw, paring declines from before the
publication of the data. Yields on Poland’s two-year bonds rose
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 3.54 percent,
the highest since Nov. 27.  The European Union’s largest eastern economy slowed for the
fourth straight quarter to an annual  pace  of 1.1 percent,
beating a median estimate of 0.9 percent in Bloomberg’s survey
of 32 economists, the Warsaw-based  Central Statistics Office 
said today. The data comes after the central bank cut  interest
rates  four times in as many months and policy makers said in
February they would reconsider their easing approach.  “The figures released today could be good enough to
warrant a well-flagged pause in rate cuts,” economists at  ING
Bank Slaski SA (ING) , led by  Mateusz Szczurek , wrote in a note. The
data is “zloty positive” and “negative” for shorter-term
bonds, the analysts wrote.  Earlier today, Poland’s purchasing managers’ index, a gauge
of manufacturing, rose to 48.9 points in February from 48.6
points a month earlier, below a median estimate of 49 points in
Bloomberg’s survey of 19 economists.  Japan Credit Rating Agency Ltd. raised Poland’s foreign
currency credit rating to A from A- today and its local currency
grade to A+ from A, citing “continued improvement in the fiscal
deficit” and “stable economic prospects.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  