-- Zynga Offers Mobile Word Game by `Draw Something' Creator
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-03-01T22:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-01/zynga-offers-mobile-word-game-by-draw-something-creator.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  released “What’s the
Phrase,” a word game for  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhones, as it seeks to
build hit titles for mobile devices to counter slowing demand
for social applications played on  Facebook Inc. (FB)   The new game is the first app developed by the team behind
the popular game “Draw Something” since Zynga acquired OMGPop
Inc., the creator of that game, a year ago, Chief Operations
Officer David Ko said in an interview this week.  Producing mobile games with the potential to lure millions
of smartphone and tablet users is central to Chief Executive
Officer Mark Pincus’s plan to revive growth at Zynga. The San
Francisco-based company has struggled to make up for fading
demand for its core business of Web-based games. Its biggest
mobile hits, “Draw Something” and “Words with Friends,” have
been created by outside teams it acquired.  In “What’s the Phrase,” players take turns guessing
letters to form a hidden phrase, similar to the long-running
television game show “Wheel of Fortune.” The title became
available in Apple’s App Store yesterday and will eventually be
offered for phones running Google Inc.’s Android software, Ko
said.  Dan Porter, the former CEO of OMGPop, heads Zynga’s mobile
studio in New York and led development of the new game. Some
members of the OMGPop team, including former executive Wilson
Kriegel, left following the acquisition.  App Maker  Zynga, the biggest maker of online social games, took a
writedown of $95.5 million in the third quarter on the value of
the mobile-app maker, which it bought for $180 million. The
company cited “Draw Something” as the primary reason for a
decline in mobile users from the second quarter to the third
quarter of last year.  Ko has tried to bring more discipline to the development of
games. Last month he said the process will be subject to greater
scrutiny by managers and work on new games will be ended if they
fail to meet expectations.  Zynga generates revenue by selling virtual goods within its
games -- for example, a gun in “Mafia Wars” or a brick oven in
“ChefVille.”  Last month, it reported fourth-quarter profit and sales
that beat analysts’ estimates as it cut costs faster than demand
fell for virtual goods. The company has ended more than a dozen
games and cut 5 percent of staff and this week said it is
consolidating office locations in New York and closing one site
in Baltimore and two in  Texas .  The shares rose 1.5 percent to $3.43 at the close in New
York. The stock has jumped 45 percent this year, compared with a
6.5 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  