-- 
H.K. Fails to Appoint New Securities Regulator

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-06-09T03:40:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/h-k-fails-to-appoint-new-securities-regulator.html
Hong Kong  failed to name a new
 Securities and Futures Commission  chief, leaving the watchdog
with an interim head as record share sales and the growth of
yuan-denominated products spur calls for more supervision.  Alexa Lam, the deputy chief executive, will run the agency
until a replacement is found, the regulator said. The new SFC
head will need to review how initial share sales are sponsored
and oversee the introduction of regulations for over-the-counter
derivatives, said Martin Wheatley, who ended his tenure
yesterday.  Under Wheatley, the SFC uncovered questionable disclosures
among some IPO sponsors, pursued a crackdown on  insider trading 
and brokered compensation for investors who lost money on
securities linked to bankrupt Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The
delay in naming a new regulatory head comes as Hong Kong
attracts more shares sales from overseas and develops into an
offshore center for  China ’s yuan.  “It’s a challenging job,” said  David Webb , a member of
the SFC’s Takeovers and Mergers panel. “If you are chief
executive of the SFC, you need to stand up to political
interests to pursue the mandate.”  Under Wheatley, the regulator faced opposition in 2008 from
companies including  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  when it sought to
extend the period that directors aren’t allowed to trade in
shares of their companies, Webb said.  ‘Good Progress’  The Hong Kong government “is making good progress” in
finding a replacement, said Terry Wong, a spokeswoman of the
Financial Services and the Treasury. “An announcement of the
result will be made as soon as procedural parts have been
completed.”  Wheatley, who announced his departure as chief executive
officer in December, left to lead the agency that will take over
most of the powers of the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority.  He earned HK$9.09 million ($1.17 million) in 2010,
according to the commission’s  2010 annual report .  The SFC in March identified lapses in the evaluation of
applicants for initial public offerings, which reached a record
$57.8 billion last year. While overseas companies like Prada SpA
and Samsonite LLC are planning Hong Kong listings, Chinese
companies accounted for 45 percent of the HK$21.9 trillion
capitalization of the stock exchange’s main board as of the end
of April, up from 16 percent in 1997.  The regulator may begin consultation on making sponsors
legally liable for statements in their clients’ prospectuses in
the third quarter, Wheatley said. It needs to revise the code of
conduct for sponsors, he said.  Hontex, Tiger  The new head will also oversee lawsuits that the SFC
pursued under Wheatley. The regulator is seeking to recover
funds for investors after it accused Hontex International
Holdings Co. of misleading information in its IPO prospectus.  The SFC is also seeking to ban Tiger Asia Management LLC,
the hedge-fund firm led by Bill Hwang, from trading in the city
and to restore alleged  insider trading  profits to investors.  “We’ve taken a much tougher line on market misconduct,
market manipulation and insider dealing such that now Hong Kong
has the credible deterrence,” Wheatley said at a press
conference yesterday.  “We haven’t completed everything and certainly not
everything I would like to complete. And there will be some
challenges for my successor to take on.”  Hong Kong is introducing a new regime for over-the-counter
derivatives, Wheatley said, rejecting a suggestion by U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Tim Geithner  that markets around the world
aren’t following the U.S. lead fast enough.  Withstanding Trauma  “The U.S. regulatory system has shown itself to be not
best able to withstand the sort of trauma that we’ve been
through in the last three years, whereas I think the Hong Kong
system in many aspects has,” he said.  Under Wheatley the regulator won Hong Kong’s  first jail
sentence for insider trading , a court battle against billionaire
 Richard Li ’s PCCW Ltd., and strengthened investor protection
after the mis-selling of notes linked to Lehman.  China’s government has selected Hong Kong as the hub for
promoting use of the yuan as an alternative to the dollar in
global trade and investment. The city’s yuan trade settlements
in the first quarter were 310.8 billion yuan ($48 billion),
almost matching 2010’s total, according to the Hong Kong
Monetary Authority.  Borrowers including Volkswagen AG and Unilever NV raised a
record 65.3 billion yuan selling dim sum debt in the first five
months of the year, exceeding the 35.7 billion yuan issued in
all of 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Hong Kong’s bond market is growing rapidly, especially
the yuan off-shore market, but the governance is still under
development or under review,” said Danny Yan, a  fund manager  at
Haitong International Asset Management, which oversees $600
million.  “This is a new product in the world that nobody has tested
before, and it is the SFC’s responsibility to closely monitor,”
Yan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  