-- 
A Third of Voters Have Qualms About Mormon President, Poll Says

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-06-08T10:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/a-third-of-voters-have-qualms-about-mormon-president-poll-says.html
More than a third of U.S. voters have
some qualms about a Mormon president, even as Republicans prefer
former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney over other
presidential candidates, according to a new poll.  The survey by Hamden, Connecticut-based  Quinnipiac
University  found 36 percent of registered voters saying they
were “somewhat” or “entirely uncomfortable” with a
presidential candidate who was a member of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-Day Saints. Romney, who announced his candidacy
June 2, is a Mormon, as is former Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman ,
who is considering a run for the Republican presidential
nomination.  The poll also found that 45 percent of voters viewed the
Mormon religion favorably, while 32 percent said they had an
unfavorable opinion.  “The fact that less than half of voters have a favorable
view of the religion is likely to be a political issue” for
Romney and Huntsman, said Peter A. Brown, assistant director of
the  Quinnipiac University Polling Institute .  According to the poll, atheists and Muslims would face the
biggest hurdles in a White House run. The poll reported that 60
percent of voters said they would be somewhat or entirely
uncomfortable with an atheist who sought the presidency, and 59
percent expressed that view about a Muslim. Among other
religions, 18 percent expressed some discomfort with a Catholic
presidential candidate, 15 percent with a Jew, and 26 percent
with an evangelical Christian, according to the poll.  Republican Race  In Quinnipiac’s polling of Republicans and Republican-
leaning independents, Romney led with 25 percent. “He has
opened up some daylight on the field,” Brown said.  Running second, with 15 percent, was former Alaska Governor
Sarah Palin, the party’s 2008 vice presidential nominee, who has
been coy about whether she will seek the White House. All of the
other announced or prospective Republican candidates were in
single digits.  Romney, 64, also polled strongest among Republicans in
matchups against President  Barack Obama . He is trailing Obama,
47 percent to 41 percent, in the survey. Obama led Palin, 53
percent to 36 percent.  The May 31-June 6 poll of 1,946 registered voters has an
margin of error of plus or minus 2.2 percentage points for its
entire survey. The portion focused on the Republican
presidential race interviewed 830 voters and had a margin of
error of 3.4 percentage points.  Second Campaign  Romney is making his second try for the Republican
nomination. When running four years ago, he discussed his faith
in a December 2007 speech that sought to allay concerns some
might have about his religion. He said all U.S. churches “share
a common creed of moral convictions.”  Some Mormon teachings differ from those of other Christian
denominations. Mormons say that the Christian church fell from
the truth and that it is being restored “in the latter days”
through modern-day prophets, starting in 1820 with Joseph Smith,
founder of the LDS church.  A 2006 Bloomberg-Los Angeles Times poll conducted as Romney
was gearing up his previous run found that 35 percent of
registered voters said they wouldn’t vote for a Mormon for
president.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at  
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 