-- 
Maersk Only Asia-Europe Line Showing Profit: Freight Markets

-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-09T14:24:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/maersk-only-europe-asia-shipper-showing-profit-freight-markets.html
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S may be the
only shipping line to profit from growing trade between  Asia  and
Europe even as rates reach a two-year low.  While Maersk is ordering the world’s biggest ships for the
routes, companies such as Hapag-Lloyd AG may lose out. Maersk,
the largest container shipping line, probably was the only major
operator to make money on Asia-Europe trade in the first
quarter, said Ben Gibson, a freight derivatives broker in London
at Clarkson Plc, the world’s largest shipbroker. The shares
jumped as much as 1.9 percent today.  Container lines have contracted for new ships with capacity
equal to 24 percent of the existing fleet, according to Paris-
based data provider Alphaliner. The price of carrying containers
to northern European ports from Shanghai has dropped to $874 per
standard box, the lowest since July 2009. The peak was $2,164 in
March last year, data from the  Shanghai  Shipping Exchange shows.  “It’s a very tough freight lane at the moment, but Maersk
is definitely in a better position than its rivals because of
its size,”  Jacob Pedersen , an analyst at Aabenraa, Denmark-
based Sydbank A/S, said in a telephone interview. He has an
“overweight” recommendation on Maersk’s stock.  The Copenhagen-based company’s shares have gained 9.1
percent since container freight rates peaked on March 5, 2010.
Maersk advanced today to 45,920 kroner as of 4:20 p.m. in
Copenhagen trading, after four days of declines.  Quarterly Losses  “Maersk is leading when it comes to having the lowest
costs per transported container and is therefore in a better
condition with the current low rates,” Jesper Langmack,
managing director at PFA, Denmark’s second-biggest fund, said by
e-mail.  PFA, which has about 250 billion kroner ($50 billion) in
investment assets, returned 37.1 percent on Danish shares last
year, compared with a 32.7 percent gain for all of the country’s
stocks including dividend payments. Langmack’s portfolio had
Maersk shares worth about 700 million kroner at the end of 2010.
The Copenhagen-based fund doesn’t comment on its holdings.  Maersk’s stock is “cheap” because the market isn’t giving
the company credit for its ability to keep reducing costs, Robin Byde, an analyst with HSBC Bank Plc in London, said today in a
note. “Despite weaker container rates in recent months, Maersk
is well-placed to cut unit costs with its new bigger ships,” he
said, repeating his “overweight” recommendation on the stock.  Bigger Than Ever  Maersk on Feb. 21 ordered 10 vessels able to carry 18,000
containers from Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co.,
and has an option to order 20 more. The new container ships will
be about 30 percent bigger than the largest vessels now in use.  Hamburg-based Hapag-Lloyd,  Europe ’s  fourth-largest 
container line, is grappling with surging fuel prices and
increasing competition that culminated in a first-quarter net
loss of 22.1 million euros ($32.3 million).  The “rise in the oil price, the weak  U.S. dollar  and
growing competition are making business more difficult,”
Michael Behrendt, chairman of the executive board of Hapag-
Lloyd, said in an  earnings statement  on May 12. The German
shipping company aims to balance higher fuel costs by increasing
prices, Behrendt said then. Volume on Far East routes was down
8.5 percent as the company declined lower-price contracts.  Crude oil is up 10.7 percent this year to more than $101 a
barrel while the euro reached a one-month high against the
dollar on June 7.  No More Service  Taiwan’s  Wan Hai Lines Ltd. (2615)  and  China ’s Pacific
International Lines Private Ltd., which have about 2.9 percent
of the container market, said in a May 31  statement  that they
would stop service on the Asia-to-Europe route and instead slot
charter space on China Cosco Holdings Co. container unit.  CMA CGM SA, the world’s third-largest container line, will
lift rates on the Asia to North Europe route in response to
“on-going deterioration of revenues,” the Marseille-based line
said  yesterday  on its website. Privately held Mediterranean
Shipping Co. of Geneva, the second-largest line, declined to
comment.  The route between Asia and Europe is particularly hard-hit
by falling freight rates because it’s where most of the world’s
largest container ships, which are too big for the Panama Canal
between North and South America, are used.  Ongoing Losses  “Several container shipping lines reported losses in the
first quarter and I expect this to continue,” said Philip Damas, an analyst at Drewry Shipping Consultants Ltd. in  London .
Container shipping companies “are now going for market share
and the perceived need to fill their new ships at much lower
prices, whereas in 2010 their priority was to minimize
overcapacity.”  Shipping lines usually call at ports in  Japan ,  South Korea ,
China and  Singapore  before leaving Asia to sail through the  Suez
Canal , which connects the  Indian Ocean  with the Mediterranean,
and onto northern European ports such as Rotterdam, Amsterdam,
Antwerp, Southampton and Hamburg.  Some 154 ships with capacity above 10,000 standard
containers will start operating between 2011 and 2014, according
to Eurogate GmbH & Co. KgaA, Europe’s largest port operator.  “The current fall of container freight rates on the east-
west routes is supply-driven, not demand-driven,” said Damas.  Because of Maersk’s container earnings, at $2.6 billion
last year more than at any other shipping line, the company is
better able than competitors to weather the changes in global
shipping capacity and cargo.  $100 More  Last year,  Maersk Line  made almost $100 more than its
rivals per each transported 40-foot container, based on earnings
before interest and taxes, Chief Executive Officer Eivind Kolding said in a March 7 interview.  The company is feeling the lower rates, said Lee Sissons,
Maersk Line’s trade director for Asia to Europe services.  “The situation does present a risk to profitability
levels, and it is our expectation that we may see services being
re-structured or changed in the short term,” he said in an e-
mail. “It remains our objective to keep Maersk Line services
stable, avoiding unnecessary changes to our customers.”  Most of the  container ships  being ordered and delivered
this year are the largest container vessels built, with capacity
of more than 10,000 standard boxes, or TEUs, Gibson said. They
are typically used on the long routes between Asia and Europe,
partly because they are too big for the Panama Canal and for
West Coast ports to handle. Maersk’s margins suggest it was the
only carrier to make money on the route, he said.  Zodiac Orders  Zodiac Maritime Agencies Ltd. and Neptune Orient Lines Ltd.
ordered 10,000-container-plus ships last year as the end of the
global recession revived U.S. and European demand for Asian-made
goods.  Maersk Line operates more than 500 vessels and has a number
of containers that if stacked on top of each other would span
more than 2,500 kilometers (1,554 miles), or the equivalent of
8,550 Eiffel Towers, according to Maersk. The company has some
17,000 employees and an additional 7,600 seafarers, according to
 information  on its website.  Container trade to Europe from Asia in the first four
months increased 5.8 percent to about 4.5 million containers,
according to Container Trades Statistics.  “There’s a lot of  spot-market  trade on Asia to Europe, but
Maersk has more of its cargo fixed on long-term contracts that
were signed some time ago, so the company is less exposed than
rivals to the recent drop on the spot market,” said Pedersen,
the Sydbank analyst. “Maersk also has newer ships than its
rivals and that gives a competitive advantage. Maersk can keep
costs low and that’s the way to make money.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  