-- 
African Barrick Tumbles to Record Low on Tanzanian Mining ‘Super Tax’ Plan

-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 
2011-06-08T16:15:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/african-barrick-tumbles-on-tanzania-plan-for-mining-super-tax.html
African Barrick Gold Plc,  Tanzania ’s
biggest producer of the metal, fell to a record low in  London  
trading after the country said it may study a “super-profit” 
tax on minerals similar to a levy proposed in  Australia .  The shares slumped 7.8 percent to the lowest price since
starting to trade in March 2010.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , which
also mines in Tanzania, dropped 3.1 percent in Johannesburg.  “Considering the increasing trend in mineral prices, it is
optimal to introduce a super-profit tax on the windfall earnings
from the mineral sector,” Tanzania’s planning commission said
in a report today. African Barrick is “not aware of any such
plans and has not been involved in any discussions or
consultation in relation to this,” the London-based company
said in a statement.  African Barrick operates four mines in the country that
account for all of its gold production, while AngloGold runs the
Geita mine. Tanzania is the joint third-largest gold producer in
Africa behind  South Africa  and Ghana, matching Mali’s 44.6
metric tons in 2010, according to research company GFMS Ltd.  African Barrick said it has accords for all its mines that
guarantee tax and fiscal stabilization that can’t be amended
without its agreement. AngloGold said Geita wouldn’t be affected
because its tax arrangement with Tanzania is valid for the life
of the mine.  Tanzanian Growth Targets  The levy was proposed in a five-year planning report that
targets an annual average economic growth rate of 8 percent from
2011/12 to 2015/16, the commission said. The expansion is
expected to accelerate to 10 percent by 2025, it said.  African Barrick fell 35 pence to 415 pence by the 4:30 p.m.
close in London, while the benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  fell 1
percent. AngloGold slipped 9.31 rand to 289.99 rand in
Johannesburg.  Australia’s planned 30 percent tax on  iron ore  and coal
profits will earn A$7.7 billion ($8.2 billion) in its first two
years, the country’s Treasury Department said last month. The
tax is scheduled to start in July 2012 after the laws are passed
by parliament.  Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  in July scaled back
the original proposal for a 40 percent tax on all resource
profits to a levy with a higher threshold that exempts most
commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  