-- 
Lagarde Takes IMF Campaign to China After Failing to Win India Endorsement

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-06-08T10:04:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/lagarde-takes-imf-campaign-to-china.html
Christine Lagarde  arrived in China
today to seek the government’s backing for her bid to become the
next managing director of the  International Monetary Fund  after
failing to secure public endorsement from India.  The French finance minister’s two-day trip, which will
include a press briefing tomorrow in Beijing, is part of a tour
that has also taken her to  Brazil .  Emerging nations including China, India, South Africa and
Brazil have urged an end to the convention of naming the IMF’s
head from  Europe  and World Bank presidents from the U.S. Mexican
central bank Governor Agustin Carstens is a candidate for the
IMF job, which the organization aims to fill this month after
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn  quit the post following his arrest in  New
York  on sexual assault charges.  “I did not seek assurance,” Lagarde said of her India
visit. “It would be premature and it would be arrogant on my
part to expect assurance or reassurance.” She told reporters at
a briefing in New Delhi yesterday that she was “here to present
my candidacy and listen to the concerns of an emerging market
economy as important as India.”  Lagarde said she had presented her plans for the 187-member
fund during meetings with India’s Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. The IMF was formed
after World War II to help stabilize the currencies and
economies of member countries and lends to countries that are in
financial strife.  China ’s View  The IMF’s management should be chosen on the basis of
“impartiality” and “merit,” and developing nations should be
represented, Jiang Yu, a spokeswoman for China’s foreign
ministry, told reporters on May 19.  The No. 2 slot at the Washington-based agency is also up
for grabs, with first deputy managing director  John Lipsky  due
to retire in August. There are also two deputy managing
directors,  Naoyuki Shinohara  and Nemat Shafik.  South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said
yesterday that Brazil,  Russia , India, China and his country are
still in talks to nominate a joint candidate to head the IMF.
IMF executive directors representing those nations have
protested a tradition dating back to the fund’s creation that
its leader be a European.  ‘Basis of Merit’  “We want the selection of the managing director of the IMF
or that of the  World Bank  to be done on the basis of merit,
competence and in a transparent manner,” India’s Mukherjee told
reporters in New Delhi yesterday. He said Mexico’s Carstens is
“a competent person,” adding that “we’ll also talk to them.
Let’s see how it emerges.”  Nationality should not be an important factor, the Indian
official said. Carstens will visit India on June 10, the Press
Trust of India news agency reported today.  Carstens served as  IMF  deputy managing director from 2003
to 2006. He has a doctorate in economics from the University of
Chicago and took the reins of Mexico’s central bank in January
2010 after serving as the country’s finance minister.  Colombia  yesterday joined Uruguay as the second country to
publicly back Carstens.  Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin on May 27 voiced his
support for Lagarde, joining the U.K., Germany and Sweden. U.S.
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner has praised Lagarde’s
qualifications while refraining from endorsing her candidacy.  Countries from the European Union hold about 31 percent of
the votes at the agency and the U.S. almost 17 percent.
Emerging-market and developing countries saw their share of
votes increase to 42 percent, from 40.5 percent, under Strauss-
Kahn’s management.  Being French  The IMF, which provided a record $91.7 billion in emergency
loans last year and accounts for one-third of the aid packages
for euro-region countries such as Greece, has vowed transparency
in the selection process.  Lagarde said last month that being French is neither an
advantage nor a drawback to her candidacy.  Selection to top positions in these offices should be on
the basis of “broad consensus,”  India ’s Mukherjee said.
“India would like to be part of that consensus. We are working
with other countries.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  