-- 
Lagging Lira Seen Rallying on Turkish Post-Election Rate Rise

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-06-09T14:22:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/lagging-lira-seen-beating-emerging-nations-on-turkish-rate-rise-after-vote.html
The lira, the worst-performing
emerging-market currency the past six months, may lead gains as
 Turkey ’s biggest inflation surge in a decade forces policy
makers to increase rates from record lows after this weekend’s
election, according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Turkey’s currency will gain 4.5 percent to 1.51 per dollar
by the end of the third quarter, the median of 20 estimates on
Bloomberg shows, beating forecasts for all 23 developing-nation
currencies. The average forecast rose from 1.535 a month ago.
  The central bank kept borrowing costs at a low of 6.25 percent
even as  Brazil  raised rates five times in the past year and
 India  increased seven times. Turkish policy makers may boost the
interest rate to 6.5 percent in the third quarter, 7 percent in
the fourth quarter and 8.75 percent by October 2012 after
inflation jumped to an annualized 7.2 percent from 4.3 percent
last month, according to the median estimate in Bloomberg
surveys of 15 banks. Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s
governing party is leading polls before the June 12 vote.  “I expect a rate hike after the elections,” Mete Tuncel,
who helps manage $1.65 billion as a partner at Emerging
Sovereign Group in  New York , said in e-mailed comments. “I
don’t know how much of an increase the government would permit,
but probably they would permit a 50 basis-points increase.”  Options traders are becoming less bearish on the lira,
paying 2.01 percentage points more for the right to sell the
lira than to buy it, down from a three-month high of 2.5
percentage points on May 25, the so-called one-month risk
reversal rates show.  The currency headed for its strongest close in almost a
week at 1.578 per dollar in Istanbul today.  Falling Rates  Falling  interest rates  helped drive the lira down 4.4
percent in the past six months, the worst performance among
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The lira tumbled as central bank Governor Erdem Basci cut
interest rates by 75 basis points, or 0.75 percentage point,
between December and January and left rates unchanged at 6.25
percent since then. Basci has restricted bank lending as a tool
to fight inflation and prevent demand for imports deepening the
current account deficit. Reserve requirements have increased 10
percentage points since December to reduce the amount banks have
available to lend.  The bank raised its inflation forecast for 2011 to 6.9
percent on April 28 from 5.9 percent, citing higher  oil prices 
and taxes on textiles. The forecast assumes “limited
tightening” of monetary policy in the second half and loan
growth of 20 to 25 percent, Basci said.  ‘More Hawkish’  Turkey’s current-account deficit, forecast by the
government at $39.3 billion or 5.4 percent of gross domestic
product this year, reached $60.5 billion in the 12 months
through March as growth boosted demand for imports.  “The central bank will sound more hawkish and start
preparing markets for key rate hikes,” Lan Nguyen, a currency
strategy analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said in e-
mailed comments. “This will bring some relief for the lira as
the unconventional monetary policy has been weighing on the
currency since December last year.”  The central bank’s  twice-monthly expectations  survey on
June 8 showed for the first time since February that companies
and financial institutions expect a rate increase in the next
three months to 6.50 percent.  Nordea Bank AB, the biggest lender in the Nordic region,
raised its lira forecast to 1.48 per dollar from 1.56 on May 27.  Policy Mix  “Despite the central bank’s firm belief in its policy mix,
we still think a surprise hike in the benchmark rate of 50 basis
points is possible in July,”  Elisabeth Andreew , a strategist at
Nordea Bank in Copenhagen wrote in a research note on June 6.  Commerzbank, based in Frankfurt, revised its lira outlook
downward on June 6, predicting central bank efforts to slow the
economy will fail and the current account deficit will jump to 9
percent of GDP.  Turkey’s credit rating may come under pressure should the
government have difficulty financing the current-account gap,
Moody’s Investors Service said on June 6. Moody’s ranks Turkey
at Ba2, two levels below investment grade, with a positive
outlook.  Standard & Poor’s  rates the country an equivalent BB,
also with a positive outlook, and  Fitch Ratings  has a BB+
ranking, one step below investment grade.  Budget Gap  “We think that the likelihood of a Turkish upgrade in 2011
is significant if the Turkish authorities deal with the current
account deficit issue,” said Guillaume Tresca, an emerging-
market strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Paris, adding that
Turkish bonds look “attractive”.  Erdogan’s governing party had 49 percent backing in a June
1 survey by Istanbul-based Konsensus Arastirma. His popularity
has been helped by the second-fastest economic growth rate after
 China  among the Group of 20 major economies, at 9.2 percent in
the fourth quarter.  “We expect a modest equity rally after the June 12
elections if the AKP does not win by a landslide,” Morgan
Stanley  The government plans to lower the  budget deficit  to 2.8
percent of GDP from 3.6 percent last year. The  International
Monetary Fund  sees the Turkish shortfall at 1.7 percent this
year, below  Germany ’s 2.3 percent,  France ’s 6 percent and the
U.K.’s 8.6 percent.  Stock Gains  Since Erdogan’s  Justice and Development Party  won power in
2002, output per capita has almost tripled, exceeding $10,000
last year, according to the Treasury. The benchmark ISE-100
stock index has jumped more than sixfold in dollar terms --
almost twice the gain on the MSCI Emerging Market Index -- and
yields on benchmark lira bonds have dropped to about 9 percent,
from above 50 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “On the fiscal side, the government has been doing very
very well,” said  Koon Chow , a London-based strategist at
 Barclays Capital , which increased its lira forecast to 1.62 from
1.63 on May 30. “It has been helped by incredibly strong
growth, strong tax revenues but at the same spending has been
relatively contained. The economy is in solid shape, there is no
reason to spend more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  