-- 
Thai Prices at 32-Month High Should Move Freely, Pheu Thai’s Yingluck Says

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-06-09T06:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/thai-prices-at-32-month-high-should-move-freely-pheu-thai-s-yingluck-says.html
Thailand ’s opposition Pheu Thai
party, leading in polls before a July 3 election, favors letting
prices of  consumer goods  move freely as the country faces
inflation at a 32-month high, according to its leader Yingluck Shinawatra.  The party isn’t “afraid of the pricing inflation,”
Yingluck, the sister of fugitive ex-leader  Thaksin Shinawatra ,
said in an interview as she campaigned in Bangkok yesterday.
“The price must be free and the price must not be monopolized
by anyone.”  Consumer prices may jump as much as one percentage point
once the government removes oil subsidies, Bank of Thailand
Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said April 12. Thailand’s
central bank has raised  interest rates  seven times in the past
year to counter accelerating inflation.  “If they go in one shot obviously it hurts the pockets of
consumers and we might see some short term adjustment,” Wellian Wiranto, a Singapore-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc., said
of removing the controls by phone today. “The underlying thing
is if they have strong growth and strong income growth, then
that should cancel out.”  Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  has capped diesel tariffs
and applied price controls to items such as eggs and cooking oil
to shield Thailand’s 67 million people from inflation, which
surged to 4.19 percent in May.  Stocks Fall  Thai stocks fell 1.1 percent as of the mid-day break,
putting the benchmark SET Index on pace to extend its longest-
losing streak in more than a year following downgrades on
concerns about the election. About 100 people have been killed
following disputes over the last election in 2007 won by
Thaksin’s allies.  The Pheu Thai party aims to reassess the value chain and
eliminate monopolies to ensure prices move according to supply
and demand, prompting them to fall, Yingluck said. It plans to
“help a little bit” to reduce  oil prices  by adjusting the
excise tax in times of economic duress, she said.  “If in the future the economy is getting better, we have
to adjust back to normal so we don’t interfere and cap the
price,” she said, without specifying whether she would lift any
other price controls.  ‘Remove Subsidies’  “It doesn’t seem to be realistic to remove subsidies in
Thailand at this stage,”  Hideki Hayashi , a global economist at
Mizuho Securities Co. in  Tokyo , said by phone. “With such
political instability, the country was able to grow because it’s
a society where poor people can still afford to buy food, drinks
and other necessities quite cheaply.”  Yingluck would become Thailand’s first-ever female leader
if Pheu Thai forms a government. She resigned as chief executive
officer of property developer SC Asset Corp. last month to
participate in the election and was formerly president of
 Advanced Info Service Pcl (ADVANC) , a mobile-phone company founded by
Thaksin that is now Thailand’s biggest.  Thailand is “really behind in terms of infrastructure and
technology,” Yingluck said, calling for bidding on third-
generation mobile-phone licenses to take place quickly after the
establishment of a telecommunications regulator.  Pheu Thai  Pheu Thai is the latest incarnation of parties loyal to
Thaksin that have won the past four elections, with the last
three results being overturned by court rulings and the 2006
coup that toppled Thaksin from power. He has directed party
affairs from overseas since fleeing a 2008 jail sentence for
abuse of power.  Abhisit has promised to raise the minimum wage by 25
percent, give cash to the elderly and guarantee farmers’ incomes
to appeal to voters loyal to Thaksin. Yingluck’s party also
plans variations of the same policies.  “The first thing I would do is help people in terms of
economics,” she said. “People are suffering, especially in
terms of finding sources of income.”  Pheu Thai would win 43 percent of the vote if elections
were held now, compared with 37 percent for the Democrat party,
according to a Dusit Poll that surveyed 4,694 people from May 23
to May 28.  ‘Necessary Action’  The central bank raised the benchmark rate to 3 percent
last week and said it “stands ready to take necessary action”
against inflationary pressures. Thailand’s gross domestic
product climbed 2 percent in the first quarter from the previous
three months, the fastest pace in a year. Growth in 2011 may
exceed the central bank’s 4.1 percent forecast, the central
bank’s Assistant Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan said last
week.  Credit Suisse and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. downgraded the
nation’s equities this week on concern over the election,
inflation and increased valuations. Overseas investors yesterday
sold 6.31 billion baht ($207.8 million) more of Thai stocks than
they bought, a fifth straight day of withdrawals that boosted
the total outflow in June to 13.9 billion baht, according to
data from the Stock Exchange of Thailand.  “That’s that fear of ‘Oh God, what could happen?’” Andrew Stotz, a strategist at Kim Eng Securities (Thailand) Pcl, the
nation’s largest stock brokerage, said in an interview today.
“You’ve got to be careful not to get too caught up in that
fear. The fundamentals of Thailand are not bad.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Singapore at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  