-- 
Thai Stocks Slump Seventh Day After Credit Suisse Cuts Rating on Politics

-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-06-08T10:27:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/thai-stocks-slump-seventh-day-after-credit-suisse-cuts-rating-on-politics.html
Thai stocks slumped for a seventh day,
the benchmark index’s longest-losing streak in more than a year,
as Credit Suisse Group AG downgraded the equities because of
concern a July 3 election will fuel political instability.  The SET Index sank 2 percent to 1,014.58 at the 4:30 p.m.
close in Bangkok, extending its seven-day drop to 5.8 percent.
Credit Suisse lowered the stocks to “marketweight” and reduced
the recommended allocation for banks, property and tourism
shares, a day after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lowered its rating.  The index has slid 8.6 percent from a 14 1/2-year high on
April 21, approaching the 10 percent drop that signals a so-
called correction to some analysts. Overseas investors have
increased sales on concern the election will revive political
violence that has destabilized Southeast  Asia ’s second-biggest
economy since a coup in 2006. The vote will pit Prime Minister
 Abhisit Vejjajiva ’s Democrat party against the Pheu Thai party,
led by the sister of deposed premier  Thaksin Shinawatra .  “Rating reductions by major international brokerages have
added to selling pressure from overseas investors,” said Win Udomrachtavanich, chief investment officer of Asset Plus Fund
Management Co. in Bangkok, which oversees about $900 million of
assets. “Politics will be the biggest concern until the outcome
of the general election is known.”  Pheu Thai would win 43 percent of the vote if elections
were held now, compared with 37 percent for the Democrat party,
according to a  Dusit Poll  that surveyed 4,694 people from May 23
to May 28. Pheu Thai is a successor to parties loyal to Thaksin
that won the past four Thai elections.  Losing Streak  Bangkok Bank Pcl (BBL) , the biggest lender, lost 2.3 percent,
Land & Houses Pcl, the largest developer, slid 3.4 percent and
 Minor International Pcl (MINT) , the biggest operator of hotel resorts,
sank 4.2 percent. Banks, property and tourism-related stocks are
the “most sensitive” to concerns over politics, Credit Suisse
wrote.  The SET, Asia’s biggest decliner, had its longest-losing
streak since the eight-day retreat ended Jan. 28, 2010. The baht
slipped 0.2 percent to 30.34 against the dollar.  Investors should turn more “neutral” on  Thailand ’s stocks
amid “higher election risk,” accelerating inflation and
increased valuations, Dan Fineman and Siriporn Sothikul, Credit
Suisse’s analysts, wrote in a report today. Goldman yesterday
cited “uncertainty” caused by the election and Thailand’s
sensitivity to  oil prices  and a lack of “top-down direction”
for its decision to downgrade the nation’s equities.  Thaksin was ousted in a 2006 coup and has lived abroad
since fleeing a jail sentence for abuse of power three years ago.
He said Pheu Thai would win the election, the  Straits Times 
reported May 28, citing an interview with him in Dubai.  Economy, Politics  “Many in the market underestimate the economic and market
importance of politics in Thailand,” according to Fineman and
Siriporn. “We believe the market prefers the Democrats.”  Overseas investors today sold 6.31 billion baht ($207.8
million) more of Thai stocks than they bought, a fifth straight
day of withdrawals and boosting the total outflow in June to
13.9 billion baht, according to data from the Stock Exchange of
Thailand’s website. They sold a net 16.7 billion baht in May.  Some demonstration leaders charged with terrorism for their
role in protests last year are running for the Pheu Thai party,
which is being led by Yingluck Shinawatra, Thaksin’s sister,
according to the party’s  website . At least 87 people were killed
in the political unrest between March and May 2010, according to
the health ministry’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  