-- 
AIG Share Gains May Be Limited by Risk, Goldman Sachs Says

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-06-08T20:17:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/aig-share-gains-may-be-limited-by-risks-goldman-sachs-says.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s
prospects for boosting its share price may be limited by
pressure on investments and concerns about the sufficiency of
insurance reserves,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said.  “The stock could be range-bound as risks offset
opportunities in the near term,” Goldman Sachs’s Michael Nannizzi said today in a note to clients. He initiated coverage
on the bailed-out insurer with a “neutral” rating.  AIG Chief Executive Officer Robert Benmosche has been
seeking higher-yielding investments as low interest rates limit
returns on fixed-income holdings. He named Peter Hancock to head
the property-casualty business in March after the division said
the month before that it would take a charge of about $4 billion
because reserves were insufficient.  AIG fell 10 cents to $27.32 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The insurer has plunged 43 percent
this year, the second-biggest drop in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index. Nannizzi said the price may climb to $31 in 12 months.  The possibility that AIG will again have to increase
reserves is among the risks facing the company, the analyst
said. Low interest rates and “credit-market volatility” may
also pressure the stock, he wrote.  The U.S. Treasury Department has a majority stake in the
New York-based insurer, an “overhang” that may reduce the
stock’s value by 15 percent, he said. The Treasury, led by
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, cut its stake last month to 77
percent by selling 200 million shares for $29 each.  One analyst tracked by Bloomberg has a “buy” rating on
AIG, Paul Newsome at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP. Three have a
“hold” rating and two advise selling the company’s shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 Nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  