-- 
Air India Said to Consider Boeing 787 Delay, May Free Up 2nd-Operator Slot

-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 
2011-06-08T10:00:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/air-india-said-to-consider-boeing-787-delay-may-free-up-2nd-operator-slot.html
Air India Ltd., due to be the second
operator of  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787 Dreamliner, is considering asking
the planemaker to defer deliveries of the aircraft because of a
lack of cash, two people familiar with the airline’s plan said.  The state-owned carrier has ruled out canceling the entire
order of 27 planes because the government may not approve, one
of the people said. The people declined to be identified because
they aren’t authorized to speak to the media. Air India is
scheduled to get its first  787  in the fourth quarter.  Air India has slowed expansion after losing customers to
Jet Airways (India) Ltd. and discount carrier IndiGo. The
Mumbai-based flag carrier is losing 260 million rupees ($5.8
million) a day, compelling it to seek funds from the government
as it tries to refinance bank loans.  Kamaljeet Rattan, a spokesman for  Air India , said he wasn’t
aware of any plan to defer deliveries of the 787. Dinesh Keskar,
the head of Boeing’s India commercial-aircraft business, wasn’t
available when called on his cellphone. Miles Kotay, a spokesman
for the Chicago-based planemaker, didn’t reply to an e-mail sent
on June 2.  “Boeing won’t have a problem reallocating these aircraft
to other airlines,” said Binit Somaia, director of Centre for
Asia Pacific Aviation in Sydney. “The 787 is so late that so
many airlines are screaming to get hold of it.”  $840 Million  Air India ordered the Dreamliners in 2005 as part of a plan
to buy 68 passenger jets worth about $8.1 billion. Boeing and
Air  India  are in discussions regarding the airline’s demand for
$840 million in compensation because of previous delays caused
by Boeing, Rattan said.  Delivery of the planes was originally supposed to start in
September, 2008.  The first seven Dreamliners are due for
delivery to Air India by March 2012, one of the people said.  Boeing has pledged to deliver as many as 20 Dreamliners
this year after the first handover was delayed seven times by
use of new materials, engine-supply disruptions and other
problems. The manufacturer had orders for 835 of the jets as of
last month, according to its website. The two models on offer
have an average price of $201.7 million.  Air India has asked the Indian government for 175 billion
rupees to help reduce its debt of 400 billion rupees as of
March, according to Rattan. The carrier posted a loss of 55.5
billion rupees in the 12 months ended in March 2010, its fourth
unprofitable year.  Boeing will deliver the first 787 plane to initial customer
All Nippon Airways Co. in August or September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  