-- 
Taiwan Dollar Advances for a Third Day on Interest-Rate Outlook

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-06-08T08:27:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/taiwan-dollar-advances-for-a-third-day-on-interest-rate-outlook.html
Taiwan ’s dollar rose for a third day
on speculation the central bank will raise  interest rates  after
inflation accelerated at the fastest pace in 15 months.  The consumer-price index climbed 1.66 percent in May from a
year earlier, after a 1.32 percent advance in April, official
data showed yesterday. U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke said yesterday that record monetary stimulus is still
needed to boost a “frustratingly slow” U.S. recovery, spurring
speculation investors will add to holdings of higher-yielding
emerging-market assets.  “Taiwan’s CPI is gradually higher,” said Tarsicio Tong, a
Taipei-based currency trader at the Union Bank of Taiwan. “That
means the central bank will raise interest rates at the end of
this month. The  U.S. dollar  is becoming weaker and everybody
wants to sell their dollars.”  The Taiwan dollar advanced 0.1 percent to NT$28.720 against
its U.S. counterpart as of the 4 p.m. local close, according to
Taipei Forex Inc. The currency has appreciated 5.7 percent this
year, the best performance among Asia’s 10 most-traded
currencies excluding the yen.  The local currency “will test the psychological level at
NT$28.50 because participants believe the central bank will
support this level,” Tong said.  Taiwan’s monetary authority will meet on June 30 after
raising the discount rate on 10-day loans to 1.75 percent in
March.  Government bonds  fell for a third day. The yield on the
1.375 percent notes due March 2021, the most-traded government
debt, was 1.498 percent compared with 1.489 percent yesterday,
according to Gretai Securities Market. That was the highest
level since the securities were issued in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 