-- 
Aluminum Fee to Japan at One-Year High on Post-Quake Demand

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 
2011-06-08T03:51:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/aluminum-fee-to-japan-said-to-reach-one-year-high-on-post-quake-demand.html
Aluminum buyers in  Japan ,  Asia ’s
largest importer, agreed to a 6 percent gain in premiums charged
by suppliers to the highest level in a year as the nation
rebuilds from a record earthquake, boosting consumption.  Premiums for the three months ending Sept. 30 were set at
$120 a metric ton over the London Metal Exchange cash price in
transactions agreed so far, compared with $113 this quarter,
said three executives involved in the negotiations. They
declined to be identified because the talks were private.  The fee increased after premiums paid by buyers in  North
America  climbed to a record, making it viable for producers to
shift the metal away from Asia. Premiums in the U.S. surged to a
record last month at 9 cents a pound ($198 a ton), driven by a
delay in moving stockpiles out of warehouses, and those in
 Europe  are close to the highest ever, at $215 a ton duty-paid
basis in Rotterdam, according to London-based researcher CRU.
The gain in premiums may boost costs for fabricators such as
 Furukawa-Sky Aluminum Corp. (5741)  and  Sumitomo Light Metal Industries
Ltd. (5738) , Japan’s two biggest mills.  “The negative influence from the disaster on aluminum
demand is beginning to fade,” said Tomomichi Akuta, research
analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Research & Consulting Co. in Tokyo.
“Consumption in Japan will likely pick up this month.”  Inventories of the metal monitored by the LME surged to 4.7
million tons in May, about a quarter of which is stored in
 Detroit , the U.S. city associated with the automotive industry.  Toyota, Honda  Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s biggest carmaker, and
rivals Honda Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co. are working to
restore full operations after the March 11 temblor and tsunami
damaged factories and caused parts shortages.  A survey by the trade ministry showed Japanese
manufacturers planned to increase production 8 percent in May
and 7.7 percent in June after a record drop in March, signaling
the economic recovery may take hold later this year. Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  is considering a second extra budget for
reconstruction after parliament approved a 4 trillion yen ($49
billion) package in May.  “Japan is still weak so will not absorb the metal,” Marco Georgiou, head of aluminum research at CRU, said in an e-mailed
reply to Bloomberg yesterday.  Aluminum product shipments to Japan’s construction industry,
which consumes more than 60 percent of the nation’s extruded
products, increased in April for a ninth straight month.  Sekisui House Ltd., Japan’s second-largest home builder,
expects the nation’s biggest housing boom in at least 15 years
after the record earthquake, Chairman Isami Wada said in an
interview in May. Aluminum is used for window frames and doors.  Power Rationing  Aluminum product shipments to builders expanded 11 percent
from a year earlier to 171,210 tons in the first four months of
this year, data from the Japan Aluminium Association showed.  Demand is also increasing as manufacturers are raising
output before power rationing starts next quarter, said Kunio
Ishikawa, director at the association.  Japan ordered industrial power users to cut electricity
consumption by 15 percent starting July 1 to help cope with
shortages after the nation’s largest quake and tsunami crippled
a nuclear station in Fukushima. The restrictions are to take
effect through Sept. 22 in areas covered by  Tokyo  Electric Power
Co., an operator of the stricken power plant.  “The regulation spurred companies such as beverage can
makers to accelerate production as power shortage may force them
to slow operations during the summer,” Ishikawa said. Can
producers are the largest user of flat-rolled aluminum products
in Japan, consuming 34 percent of the total shipments.  Recovering Demand  Demand from automakers may recover next quarter after
slumping 29 percent in April and 20 percent in March, Ishikawa
said. Toyota sees its domestic production will recover to 90
percent of normal levels this month as parts supply is improving
at “a better pace than expected,” spokeswoman  Shiori Hashimoto 
said June 1.  Toyota said on May 27 its output in Japan fell 78 percent
to 53,823 vehicles in April, the largest slump since 1976, while
global output dropped 48 percent.  Aluminum for three-month delivery on the LME dropped 0.4
percent to $2,676 a ton at 12:15 p.m. Tokyo time. The price
climbed to $2,803 on May 3, the highest since 2008, as higher
oil boosted production costs and a power shortage curbed supply.  Japanese aluminum buyers pay a premium in addition to the
London Metal Exchange cash price to cover freight and insurance
and to reflect regional supply and demand. Some third-quarter
transactions are still being negotiated with offers as high as
$128 a ton, the executives said.  The fee, applied to so-called Good Western-grade aluminum
ingot, increased for the first time since the first quarter of
last year. Premiums stabilized this quarter after dropping to
the lowest level in 18 months in the three months ended March 31.  The biggest suppliers of Western ingot include  Rio Tinto
Plc (RIO) , BHP Billiton Ltd. and  Alcoa Inc. (AA)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  