-- 
Hamburg Hospital Says Patients Show Sprouts Are E. Coli Source

-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 
2011-06-08T13:16:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/hamburg-hospital-says-patients-show-sprouts-are-e-coli-source.html
The most likely cause of the deadly
E. coli outbreak is sprouts, the largest hospital in  Germany ’s
hardest-hit area concluded from discussions with patients.  “Sprouts are the most likely and credible explanation, and
it wouldn’t be the first time,” Joerg F. Debatin, medical
director of the  University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf ,
said in an interview today at the clinic.  Interviews with patients treated at the hospital, which has
more than 8,000 employees, show many of them consumed sprouts
before being taken ill, Debatin said. E. coli-contaminated
radish sprouts were blamed for sickening about 6,000 people in
 Japan  in 1996.  Germany’s worst-ever E. coli outbreak has killed 23 people
and sickened 2,429 since May 2, according to the  European Centre
for Disease Prevention  and Control. German officials, who
initially blamed Spanish cucumbers and then local sprouts
without later finding any definitive evidence those vegetables
caused the outbreak, are still struggling to find the source.  “Think of how many times you go to a restaurant and you
have some sprouts sprinkled over your food,” Debatin said.
“It’s very hard to avoid them.”  Tests from the farm in Lower Saxony state whose sprouts
were suspected of playing a role in the infections have showed
no evidence of the bacteria. Even so, there may be a connection,
state Agriculture Minister Gert Lindemann told N24 in an
interview today.  ‘Doing Better’  Infections in the area of Cuxhaven as well as among some
employees of the farm support a link, Lindemann told the German
news channel today.  Hamburg’s  UKE hospital  is treating 81 adult patients and 22
children who have developed a potentially fatal kidney
complication, known as hemolytic uremic syndrome or HUS, after
being infected with E. coli. Some 24 of the adult HUS patients
and five of the children are in intensive care, while the rest
are ward patients. Since the epidemic began, 20 patients with
HUS have been discharged from the hospital, while six are in
rehabilitation, Debatin said.  “The clinical status of the patients is improving, rather
slowly and not for everyone, but by and large when you look at
the about 100 patients we have, they’re doing better,” said
Debatin. “We’re not seeing any new developed HUS cases.”  So far, two patients treated by UKE have died -- one 81-
year-old woman and one woman aged 87. People with diarrhea
symptoms are sent home and brought back to the hospital daily to
ensure they don’t develop HUS, Debatin said.  UKE removed itself as an emergency support for the region
on May 31 and did not take on any new patients, in order to
prepare for a second wave of potential cases. That didn’t happen
and the hospital began accepting patients again yesterday, said
Debatin.  The epidemic “has peaked” and “we are not being
inundated or overwhelmed with new patients,” Debatin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  