-- 
Hamburg Father Tells of Family's Recovery From E. Coli as Death Toll Rises

-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 
2011-06-09T01:53:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/hamburg-e-coli-patient-sees-wonder-as-son-fights-liver-condition-too.html
Holger Radloff, who is hospitalized
in Hamburg with a severe kidney complication after contracting E.
coli in  Germany ’s largest outbreak of the disease, got a welcome
telephone call to his hospital bed.  “Dad, I can move my right arm,” said Radloff’s son, who
is also in the hospital after partly losing his sight and
hearing and becoming paralyzed in parts of his body when he, too,
developed the complication called hemolytic uremic syndrome.
“That was like a wonder,” Radloff said yesterday.  The father and son are among victims of Germany’s worst-
ever E. coli outbreak, which has killed 25 people and sickened
at least 2,742 throughout  Europe  since May 2, according to the
European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. German
officials, who first blamed Spanish cucumbers and then local
sprouts without finding definitive evidence those vegetables
caused the outbreak, are still struggling to find the source.  The German strain, known as O104, is unusual because it
produces a shigella-like toxin that attacks red blood cells,
causing them to coagulate. The kidneys fail in 55 percent to 70
percent of E. coli patients with hemolytic uremic syndrome,
according to Malvinder S. Parmar, an assistant professor of
medicine at the University of Ottawa in  Canada .  Radloff, a 49-year-old journalist living in Hamburg, said
his family fell ill in mid-May after eating a salad of tomatoes,
cucumbers, sprouts and lettuce.  ‘Unbelievable Pains’  His 18-year-old daughter was the first to get sick with
symptoms such as diarrhea and strong pains. While she recovered
relatively quickly, his 16-year-old son developed worse symptoms
and was admitted to the hospital. Radloff got sick one week
later, with “unbelievable pains,” and was also hospitalized,
he said. A family friend who also ate the dish came down with
the E. coli infection, while his wife escaped the disease.  “In the phase with diarrhea and pains, you focus
completely on yourself, you don’t know what happens around you
and you don’t really want to know what’s going on,” Radloff
said. “My son was really ill at the same time -- I knew that --
but I was not in a state to ask how he was, because all my
concentration was focused on myself. I’m a journalist and was no
longer interested in taking in what was happening at the time.”  Radloff and his son both developed the potentially fatal
kidney complication. Radloff, who is now recovering at the
 University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf , was treated with
dialysis and plasma transfusions to fight the infection.  Wake, Eat, Sleep  “It is crazy,” the journalist said. “When you get
dialysis or plasma, you get tired and fall asleep part of the
time before waking up very hungry and eating like crazy. Then
you get tired again and continue to sleep,” he said.  The UKE, Hamburg’s largest hospital, is treating 81 adult
patients and 22 children who have developed the kidney
complication after being infected with E. coli. About 24 of the
adult patients and five of the children are in intensive care,
the hospital reported.  Since the epidemic began, 20 patients with the kidney
problem have been discharged from the hospital, while six are in
rehabilitation. So far, two of the hospital’s patients died from
the kidney complication -- an 81-year-old woman and an 87-year-
old woman.  Hemolytic uremic syndrome caused by shigella-like toxin is
most common in children younger than 2 to 3 years, according to
Parmar at the University of Ottawa. Renal function returns in 70
-85 percent of E. coli patients who suffer  kidney failure , he
said.  ‘Guarded Optimism’  The outlook for sufferers is generally viewed with
“guarded optimism,” said Robert Unwin, head of nephrology at
 University College London .  “The form of HUS precipitated by infection, often E. coli,
and associated with diarrhea, usually has a better outlook,
particularly in children, though perhaps a little less so in
adults,” Unwin said in an e-mail. “It all depends on its
severity and duration -- and the time needed for artificial
kidney support, dialysis, if this proves to be necessary.”  The epidemic has peaked and the situation for many of the
patients at the Hamburg UKE hospital is improving, Joerg F.
Debatin, UKE’s medical director, said June 7 in an interview.  “The clinical status of the patients is improving, rather
slowly and not for everyone, but by and large when you look at
the about 100 patients we have, they’re doing better and we’re
not seeing any new developed HUS cases,” Debatin, who has
worked at UKE for eight years, said. The outbreak “is the worst
crisis I have ever seen, not in terms of numbers but in terms of
so many really sick patients, and so many very young patients.”  The cause of the outbreak is still unknown, German Health
Minister Daniel Bahr said in Berlin yesterday. There’s
“justified optimism” to assume that “the worst is behind”
Germany from the outbreak, still, officials “can’t sound the
all-clear” and more deaths may occur, Bahr said.  Radloff was waiting yesterday afternoon for the rain to
stop after doctors told him he could go outside for fresh air
for a few minutes.  “Then I am going to go visit my son,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  