-- 
Manchester Utd. Poised to Sign Phil Jones for $26 Million: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-06-08T09:34:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/manchester-utd-poised-to-sign-phil-jones-for-26-million-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Jones for United?  Manchester United  manager Alex Ferguson is poised to win
the race to sign England under-21 defender Phil Jones, although
Blackburn won’t budge on its 16 million-pound ($26 million)
price tag, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Liverpool, Arsenal, Manchester City and Tottenham are also
interested in Jones, the newspaper said.  United striker  Javier Hernandez  will reject interest from
Real Madrid because of his loyalty to Ferguson,  the Sun  said.  Young Go-Ahead  Aston Villa has given the go-ahead for Ashley Young to join
Manchester United in a 16 million-pound deal,  the Sun  reported.  Villa owner  Randy Lerner  also plans to hold talks with ex-
England coach Steve McClaren in the next 48 hours about the
vacant manager’s job, after the departure of  Gerard Houllier ,
the paper said.  Arsenal Swap?  Shakhtar Donetsk is ready to sell Brazilian midfielder
Willian to Arsenal,  the Sun  reported.  Gunners manager Arsene Wenger is reluctant to pay the 13
million-pound asking price but Shakhtar may take Arsenal’s
Denilson in part-exchange plus 4 million pounds, the newspaper
added.  Sunderland Targets  Sunderland will step up its interest in Birmingham’s Craig
Gardner and Roger Johnson when the sale of Jordan Henderson to
Liverpool is completed, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Sunderland today said it agreed with Liverpool on a fee for
Henderson, without revealing it. The deal is worth 18 million
pounds, the Mirror said.  Liverpool is still keen to sign Blackpool’s  Charlie Adam ,
the  Guardian  reported, and is also in talks with Roma to sign
goalkeeper Alexander Doni.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 