-- 
Manulife Asset Avoids Treasuries, Prefers Asian Debt, CIO Says

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-06-08T04:27:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/manulife-asset-says-yield-too-low-on-treasuries-asian-debt-is-attractive.html
Manulife Asset Management, a unit of
 Canada ’s largest insurer, prefers Asian government and corporate
bonds to Treasuries as lower U.S. yields diminish returns.  “We are very underweight” on Treasuries, Chief Investment
Officer Barry Evans, who helps oversee  $217 billion  in assets
globally, said yesterday in an interview in Singapore. “I don’t
want to own Treasuries because their risk-return isn’t there.”  Standard & Poor’s  cut its outlook for the U.S. credit
rating to negative in April and said policy makers hadn’t agreed
on a strategy to reverse fiscal deterioration. Inflation that’s
higher than Treasury yields also sapped demand for the bonds.  The difference between the yields on 10-year Treasuries and
the rate of inflation, known as the real yield, fell to more
than a two-year low of 22 basis points on June 1 when 10-year
yields dropped below 3 percent for the first time this year.  Ten-year yields will rise to 3.48 percent by the end of
September from 2.99 percent today, according to a weighted
Bloomberg survey of economists and analysts.  “My bias with Treasuries is we’ll see 3.5 percent twice as
much as we’ll see 2.75 percent” for 10-year yields, Evans said.
“You want to have underweight and play that to it.”  U.S. debt  has returned 4.1 percent for the past 12 months,
lagging behind gains in dollar-denominated  government bonds 
issued by Asian countries, including  South Korea , according to
indexes compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Yu-Ming Wang, head of fixed income in  Asia  at Manulife
Asset, said he’s overweight in South Korean bonds.  “We are overweight on the country in general. We are also
pretty balanced” between corporate and sovereign debt, he said
with Evans in the interview yesterday. “The reason for that is
we think we can make money in all three ways, the yield curve,
credit and currency.”  Dollar-denominated South Korean government debt has
returned 7.8 percent for the past year, the Merrill Lynch index
showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 