-- 
Tanzania Budget Proposes 85% Increase in Infrastructure Spending

-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 
2011-06-08T16:31:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/tanzania-budget-proposes-85-increase-in-infrastructure-spending.html
Tanzanian Finance Minister Mustafa Mkulo announced a 13.5 trillion-shilling ($8.6 billion) budget
that included an 85 percent increase in infrastructure spending
as the government seeks to accelerate economic growth.  The East African nation expects to collect 6.77 trillion
shillings in tax and non- tax revenue , representing 17.2 percent
of the East African nation’s gross domestic product, Mkulo said
in his annual budget speech today in Dodoma, the capital.  Recurrent expenditure will total 8.6 trillion shillings,
while investment in roads, railways, ports and communication
technology set to increase to 2.78 trillion shillings from 1.51
trillion shillings a year earlier, he said.  The objective of this year’s budget is to “allocate
resources for areas with economic multiplier effects like
infrastructure for electricity, water, roads, ports,
agriculture, irrigation schemes and information and
communication technology,” Mkulo said.  Tanzania is boosting spending on infrastructure amid
expectations that economic growth may slow this year. The
economy may grow 6 percent compared with 7 percent a year
earlier, the  International Monetary Fund  said last month.  Tanzania’s Planning Commission today published a proposal
that targets an annual average economic growth rate of 8 percent
from 2011-12 to 2015-16, the  commission  said. The expansion is
expected to accelerate to 10 percent from 2016 to 2025, it said.  Over the next five years, Tanzania plans to increase tax
revenue as a percentage of gross domestic product to 19 percent
from 15 percent now, the commission said.  The government will also “continue with the process of
accessing the external sovereign  debt market  as a source of
infrastructure financing,” the commission said.  In the coming fiscal year, the government plans to borrow
2.4 trillion shillings, Mkulo said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in  Dar es Salaam  via Dubai at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 