-- 
Tanzania May Introduce ‘Super Profit Tax’ on Minerals to Increase Revenue

-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 
2011-06-08T16:10:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/tanzanian-government-plans-super-profit-tax-on-minerals-to-boost-revenue.html
Tanzania, which vies with Mali to be
 Africa ’s third-biggest gold producer, may study a “super
profit” tax on minerals similar to a levy put forward in
 Australia , the East African nation’s planning commission said.  “Considering the increasing trend in mineral prices, it is
optimal to introduce a super-profit tax on the windfall earnings
from the mineral sector,” the commission said in a report today
in Dodoma, the capital.  African Barrick Gold Ltd. (ABG) , the biggest producer of the
metal in Tanzania, fell 7.8 percent in London trading to the
lowest price since the shares started trading in March 2010. 
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , a gold miner that also operates in 
the country, declined 3.1 percent in Johannesburg.  African Barrick said its mines in Tanzania are subject
to Mineral Development Agreements that guarantee tax and
“fiscal stabilization” for projects. The accords can’t be
amended without the company’s approval, it said in a statement
today. African Barrick operates four mines in the country that
account for all of its gold production.  AngloGold said its Geita mine in Tanzania won’t be
affected because an existing arrangement is valid for the life
of the mine.  Tanzania Exports  Gold exports from Tanzania have increased to $1.5 billion,
or 7 percent of gross domestic product, from $500 million over the
past five years, the commission said. At the same time, annual
government revenue from sales of the metal has remained at $100
million, or 0.5 percent of GDP, it said.  Tanzania’s main opposition  Chama Cha Demokrasia na
Manedeleo  plans to oppose the proposal when it's debated in
parliament next week, said Zitto Kabwe, the country’s shadow
finance minister. Instead, it will suggest changes to income-tax
laws to ensure the government raises more revenue from the
 mining industry , he said in an interview today in Dodoma.  The proposal is “vague, irresponsible and sends the wrong
signal to investors,” Kabwe said. It also doesn’t appear as a
source of funding in next fiscal year’s tax measures, he said.  Australia’s planned 30 percent tax on  iron ore  and coal
profits will earn A$7.7 billion ($8.2 billion) in its first two
years, the country’s Treasury Department said last month. The
tax is scheduled to start in July 2012 after the laws are passed
by parliament.  Scaled Back  Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  in July scaled back
the original proposal for a 40 percent tax on all resource
profits to a levy with a higher threshold that exempts most
commodities.  The Tanzanian levy was proposed in a five-year planning
report that targets an annual average economic growth rate of 8
percent from 2011/12 to 2015/16, the  commission  said. The
expansion is expected to accelerate to 10 percent by
2025, it said.  Over the next five years, Tanzania plans to increase  tax
revenue  as a percentage of gross domestic product to 19 percent
from 15 percent, the commission said. Annual  government
spending  over that period is expected to be 8.6 trillion
shillings ($5.48 billion), it said.  The government will also “continue with the process of
accessing the external sovereign  debt market  as a source of
infrastructure financing,” the commission said.  Tanzania’s gold output ranked behind  South Africa  and
Ghana, and alongside Mali’s 44.6 metric tons in 2010, according
to research company  GFMS Ltd.   To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Dodoma via Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 