-- 
Areva Said to Postpone Investment to Cut Debt After Japan Quake

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   D e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-06-08T11:25:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/areva-said-to-postpone-investment-to-cut-debt-after-japan-quake.html
Areva SA, the world’s largest maker
of nuclear-power plants, may postpone some investment to
mitigate the effects of  Japan ’s Fukushima disaster on its cash
flow and debt, a person familiar with the matter said.  Areva may proceed more slowly with spending on African
mines and plant construction in the U.S., said the person, who
declined to be identified because the company has yet to publish
new forecasts. The slowdown will partly compensate for delays of
large contracts and related payments and will help further
reduce debt, the person said.  The Paris-based company has dropped its targets for
revenue, margins and cash generation for this year and next,
saying the catastrophe at the Fukushima plant in March changed
the markets in which Areva operates. Areva had previously
predicted “significant” backlog growth, rising revenue, and an
operating margin of more than 5 percent for 2011. For 2012, the
company had targeted revenue of 12 billion euros.  Following the worst nuclear crisis since 1986, countries
from  China  to the U.K. are considering tighter safety rules as
they plan to build new nuclear plants.  Germany  wants to
progressively close its 17 reactors by 2022.  Areva fell 93 cents, or 3.4 percent, to 26.27 euros at
1:21 p.m. in Paris. The stock has dropped 28 percent this year,
while  France ’s benchmark CAC40 Index rose 0.8 percent.  Safety Benefit  Areva will announce revised targets in coming weeks, after
reviewing the impact from Japan, Pauline Briand, a spokeswoman
for the company, said in an e-mailed statement.  The increased focus on nuclear safety may help Areva
generate business to make up for some of the lost revenue, the
person said. Areva also stands to book a 648 million-euro ($950
million) payment by  Siemens AG (SIE)  following a court ruling that
found the German company breached contractual obligations tied
to a nuclear venture with Areva.  Areva’s net debt stood at 3.67 billion euros at the end of
last year. The company’s credit rating was cut by two steps to
BBB+ at Standard and Poor’s in 2010.  Following the nuclear accident in Japan, decisions on the
construction of nuclear plants may be delayed by six to nine
months as regulators review safety data and rules, Areva Chief
Executive Officer  Anne Lauvergeon  said on BFM Business radio on
May 30. Areva will publish new “guidances” in coming days or
weeks, she said.  India Talks  When she presented earnings on March 3, Lauvergeon
predicted four to six new orders for nuclear reactors in the
company’s backlog by 2012 as Areva was holding talks with Indian
and Chinese utilities. The company will invest less than 2
billion euros per year in 2011 and 2012 as part of a plan to
achieve a “significantly” positive free operating cash flow in
2012, she said at the time.  Even before the Japanese disaster, Areva said in February
it would delay the move to full capacity of its Trekkopje
uranium mine project in  Namibia  by a year to 2013. In Niger, the
development of its Imouraren mine has been held back by the
abduction of employees and subcontractors by suspected members
of al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb in September 2010.  In the U.S., Areva is building a mixed-oxide fuel plant in
Savannah River,  South Carolina , which will be able to recycle
plutonium recovered from surplus weapons, and a plant in  Newport
News ,  Virginia , which will make reactor vessels and steam
generators for the U.S. nuclear market.  Areva is working on the certification of its EPR reactor in
the U.S. It has also received a $2 billion loan guarantee from
the  Department of Energy  to build a uranium enrichment plant in
Eagle Rock,  Idaho .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois De Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Harris at 
 hharris5@bloomberg.net  