-- 
Arizona Fire Threatens 40% of El Paso Electric’s Supply as Lines in Path

-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r ,   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-06-08T21:19:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/arizona-fire-threatens-40-of-el-paso-electric-s-supply-as-lines-in-path.html
El Paso Electric Co. (EE) , supplier of
power to an oil refinery and the U.S. Army’s Fort Bliss, said
it’s seeking alternative power supplies should an Arizona
wildfire cut electrical lines from Palo Verde, the nation’s
largest nuclear generating plant.  Within three days, the Wallow fire may reach high-voltage
links that deliver 40 percent of the power used by 371,000 homes
and businesses in western Texas and southeastern  New Mexico ,
Teresa Souza, a spokeswoman for the El Paso, Texas-based utility
owner, said today in an interview. The blaze, which started May
29, has scorched an area more than 20 times the size of
Manhattan.  Power at the Palo Verde switchyard, a Southwest benchmark,
gained $2.78, or 7.7 percent, to $38.83 a megawatt-hour on the
 Intercontinental Exchange , the highest price since May 4.  Yesterday, the utility said it would begin cutting power
temporarily to parts of its service area as a “last resort” to
avoid a wider blackout.  “The fire is still raging, so there is still a threat,”
Souza said. “We’re looking at options to get power from other
areas.”  Evacuations  Residents of all the areas south of U.S. 260 and east of
Greer, Arizona, have been ordered to evacuate by the sheriff of
Apache County, according to the  website  of the incident command
for the fire. None of the blaze is contained, the report filed
at 8 a.m. today showed. Evacuations have begun in Springerville,
 Arizona , near El Paso’s lines, the site showed.  Fire damage to the lines from Palo Verde in Arizona may
knock out 633 megawatts of supply, the utility owner said
yesterday. That’s enough for about a half-million average U.S.
homes, according to statistics from the Energy Department in
 Washington .  “We’re not concerned,” Gary Hanson, a spokesman for
Western Refining Inc.’s El Paso refinery, said today in an
interview. The utility “has a number of contingency plans,” he
said. Refinery capacity is 128,000 barrels a day, according to
Bloomberg data.  The Wallow fire has  raged  over 600 square miles south and
west of Alpine, Arizona. No one has been injured by the blaze,
which has destroyed 10 structures and damaged one.  The Apache County Sheriff’s Office has ordered evacuation
of at least four towns.  The fire hasn’t yet interrupted the  power grid , Rachel
Sherrard, a spokeswoman for the Western Electricity Coordinating
Council, said today in an interview. The group, which includes
El Paso Electric, oversees the high-voltage power system for all
or part of 14 states and parts of Canada and Mexico.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in  New York  
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Parker in  Chicago  at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 