-- 
Marking Military Time in a New Era of Warfare: Elizabeth Samet

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D .   S a m e t
-- 
2011-06-08T04:01:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/marking-military-time-in-a-new-era-of-warfare-elizabeth-samet.html
How does a soldier measure time? One
idiosyncratic retired officer I know used to assess his active-
duty days by something he called “time out of the greens,” the
hours he spent wearing civilian clothes. In the past several
years, the Army has marked time according to something called a
BOG:Dwell ratio.  BOG, an abbreviation for boots on the ground, refers to
deployments, while Dwell signifies dwell time, or the period
spent at home station. That’s not just how the Army measures
time; it’s how I’ve begun to measure it, too. The military chart
used to project deployment cycles is called a horse blanket, a
nickname that likely originates in the chart’s large size. I
have woven my own horse blanket of the mind, onto which I map
the comings and goings of the young officers I know. Whenever
pre- or post-deployment leave brings them to  New York City , I
find myself in a midtown bar or downtown cafe listening to
stories of combat tours just ended or to thoughts about the unit
“train ups” to which they will shortly return.  It has become difficult for me to remember the old system
of timekeeping, but I didn’t become fully conscious of this
until I read “Othello” again this spring in a Shakespeare
elective I taught to West Point juniors and seniors.  A Necessary Play  “Othello” has never been one of my touchstones. I’ve
always found unpersuasive the ease with which Iago turns
Othello, who is no insubstantial man, to his purposes. And I’ve
thought Iago’s villainy less provocative than that discovered in
“Macbeth” or “ King Lear .” But when, at the beginning of the
semester, I showed the cadets a preliminary reading list and
solicited additions, “Othello” was one of the first
suggestions. Given their chosen profession, one student
insisted, this was a play they “ought to read.” So we did.
“Othello” has now become yet another of those texts altered
for me by the experience of reading it with cadets.  In a very particular sense, Othello leads the life cadets
expect to lead as officers. His own  BOG:Dwell  ratio isn’t
especially kind: Othello has been in  Venice  only nine months
before the Turkish naval threat to Venetian interests forces him
to sail for Cyprus with his new wife. Since the age of 7,
Othello’s life has been a series of “battles, sieges,”
“disastrous chances,” and “hair-breadth scapes.”  A Soldier’s Volatility  In a speech to which no soldier who imagines one day
falling in love can fail to respond, Othello disputes the charge
that he has somehow bewitched Desdemona by explaining: “She
lov’d me for the dangers I had pass’d, / And I lov’d her that
she did pity them. / This only is the witchcraft I have us’d.”  Othello’s emotional volatility and capacity for violence,
tragically realized in his killing of Desdemona, also prompted
the class to consider the ways in which deployment might shape
an individual. One thoughtful cadet speculated about his own
attraction to military life: Would being a soldier irrevocably
alter his nature? Or was his choice of vocation an unconscious
response to impulses buried deep within?  On this reading, I was struck by Othello’s recognition of
Desdemona’s importance to him as a bulwark against the disorder
that has dominated his life: “Perdition catch my soul / But I
do love thee! and when I love thee not, / Chaos is come again.”
While the play is not primarily an investigation of the traumas
of war, I now hear in Othello’s “again” a reference to the
force and fragility of domestic bonds under the stresses of
repeated combat tours and redeployments.  Homecomings  To my complaint about Othello’s gullibility with respect to
“honest Iago,” several of the cadets had a ready response. For
them, the answer was obvious: Iago and Othello had fought
together. The trust forged by their battlefield experience
trumped all else.  This time around, “Othello” seemed to me to dramatize the
most extreme version of what it might mean to live a life geared
to serial deployments and homecomings. That is the life for
which my students are preparing; the life I have grown
accustomed to imagining for them; the life to which the oft-
invoked idea of an era of persistent conflict commits them.  That era has defined us for a decade, but recently we have
begun to allow ourselves to imagine something else. In years
past when a colleague steered a conversation about some program
or activity to the issue of relevance, I would venture something
like, “We won’t always be in  Iraq  and  Afghanistan ,” or “One
day, we’ll be having this conversation about some other enemy,
some other part of the world.” Even though we both knew this to
be true, the look I often received implied that this way of
thinking was somehow unwise, unserious, heretical.  Fighting Different Wars  Now, however, with the troop drawdown well under way in
Iraq and projected for Afghanistan, with force-wide budget and
personnel cuts in the offing, reckoning with a new world has
become a necessity. Cadets so long focused on the specific
challenges of combat tours in Iraq or Afghanistan must imagine a
world in which they end up fighting different wars in unexpected
places, in cyberspace, or in no place at all.  Conditioned since their first day in uniform to become
veterans of particular wars, they will have to figure out how to
redefine themselves and their service, to adapt to the
possibility that they will lack an experience that has shaped a
generation of officers. One day, that very experience, which has
for so long framed our view of the world, will not be the
clearest lens through which to make decisions about the future.  Invisible Contours  The challenge of navigating a future of invisible contours
has long been the province of literature. Several seniors,
commissioned as second lieutenants only a few weeks ago, with
whom I read Homer last fall might recognize it as the phenomenon
of moving from the world of the  “Iliad”  to that of the
“Odyssey.” After a decade of war, the clearly defined lines of
battle established at Troy disintegrate into a postwar world of
unknown enemies and uncertain limits -- a world in which the
most pedestrian and the most fantastic monsters offer dire
threats to the assumptions by which the soldier has defined
himself at home and abroad.  In following Odysseus home to Ithaca, Aeneas out of the
burning city of Troy, or Othello to Cyprus, future officers
refine an essential skill: They discover new ways to map space
and measure time.  (Elizabeth D. Samet is a professor of English at the U.S.
Military Academy and the author of “Soldier’s Heart: Reading
Literature Through Peace and War at  West Point .” The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Elizabeth D. Samet at  eliz.samet@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Francis Wilkinson at  fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 