-- 
Asian Stocks Decline as Bernanke, Dudley Fuel Concerns About Global Growth

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-06-08T10:40:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/asian-stocks-swing-between-gains-and-losses-on-u-s-economy.html
Asian stocks dropped, dragging the
regional benchmark index to its lowest level in two weeks, as
U.S. Federal Reserve officials fueled concern about the
sustainability of the global recovery.  Honda Motor Co., the Japanese carmaker that gets 44 percent
of sales from  North America  dropped 1.3 percent in Tokyo.
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , South Korea’s biggest automaker, fell 2.7
percent in Seoul. Tokyo Electric Power Co., owner of the
crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power station, slumped 7.4
percent after the Nikkei newspaper reported all of Japan’s
nuclear reactors may be idled.  Federal Reserve chairman Ben S. “Bernanke’s somber outlook
combined with no hint of further quantitative easing being used
as a policy response near-term have led to a negative tone in
markets,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage about $1
billion in global equities at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne.
“In a glass-half-empty environment, investors globally are
adopting a much more cautious stance.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.4 percent to 133.16 as
of 7:39 p.m. in  Tokyo , erasing gains of as much as 0.2 percent
and heading for its lowest close since May 25. Almost two stocks
dropped for each that rose in the gauge. Some $309 billion has
been erased from the market value of the measure since the
year’s peak on May 2, amid disappointing economic data, capped
by last week’s U.S. jobs report that showed American companies
hired fewer workers than economists forecast.  ‘Frustratingly Slow’  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index lost 0.7 percent. South
Korea’s Kospi Index retreated 0.8 percent.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng
Index dropped 0.9 percent.  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index
added 0.2 percent. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index gained 0.6 percent.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average climbed 0.1 percent,
erasing declines of as much as 0.5 percent, after the Economy
Watchers current conditions index, a survey of barbers, taxi
drivers and others who deal with consumers, rose to 36, the
Cabinet Office said in Tokyo.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.5 percent
today. In  New York  yesterday, the index fell for a fifth day,
the longest slump for almost a year, sliding 0.1 percent to its
lowest level since March 18.  Bernanke said yesterday the central bank should maintain
record monetary stimulus to boost an “uneven” and
“frustratingly slow” economic recovery. Federal Reserve Bank
of New York President  William Dudley  said the government must
reduce the  budget deficit  without derailing the economy.  “Some people had expected further monetary easing, but
Chairman Bernanke didn’t mention it,” said Hiroichi Nishi, an
equities manager in Tokyo at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “There
are concerns about a slowdown in the global economy, including
the U.S.”  Losing Streak  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index last week capped its longest
streak of weekly losses since the aftermath of the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 as reports showed
manufacturing growth from China, the U.S. and  Europe  slowed in
May, adding to signs the global economy is faltering. The
Washington-based  World Bank  cut its world growth forecast to 3.2
percent from a January estimate of 3.3 percent as it lowered
estimates for economic expansion in the biggest economy.  “The hot debate on whether global economic conditions are
heading into a soft patch or double-dip will continue in the
next few months, affecting investors’ sentiment,” said Kang Shin Woo, chief investment officer at Seoul-based Korea
Investment Management Co., which oversees $17 billion. “No
signs of solid recovery are seen in major economies.”  Honda, which counts North America as its main source of
revenue, slipped 1.3 percent to 2,980 yen. Hyundai, which gets
13 percent of sales from North America, declined 2.7 percent to
231,500 won in Seoul.  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , the world’s third-
biggest maker of mobile phones, fell 2.7 percent to 90,800 won
in Seoul.  ‘High Expectations’  Nintendo Co., the world’s largest maker of video-game
consoles, tumbled 5.7 percent to 16,930 yen in Tokyo after the
unveiling at the Electronic Entertainment Expo in  Los Angeles  of
its first high-definition video-game console prompted some
analysts to question the company’s ability to repeat the success
of its ageing Wii model.  “There were high expectations for the new version of the
Wii and this fell far short,” Yusuke Tsunoda, an analyst at
Tokai Tokyo Securities Co., said by phone today. “People had
expected to see something more.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific gauge slid 2.9 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 2.2 percent by the
 S&P 500  and a drop of 1.4 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.5 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 12.9 times for the S&P 500
and 11 times for the Stoxx 600.  Tokyo Electric slumped 7.4 percent to 200 yen, its lowest
close since at least 1974. All of  Japan ’s 54 nuclear reactors
could be idled by next spring if those shut for scheduled
maintenance don’t receive the required local approval to restart,
the Nikkei newspaper reported.  Using fossil fuel would cost utilities 3 trillion yen
annually ($37 billion), the newspaper said, citing an estimate
presented by Japan’s trade and industry ministry.  ‘Unclear Synergies’  Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., the world’s biggest shipyard
operator, plunged 5.6 percent to 466,000 won in Seoul after
saying it may consider bidding for a $2.4 billion stake in Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. being sold by former creditors.  “It’s very hard to see why it would be interested,” said
Lee Jae Won, an analyst at Tong Yang Securities Inc. “It’s
really unclear what the synergies would be.”  A gauge of energy producers posted the second-biggest
decline among the 10 industry groups in the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index after crude oil for July delivery dropped as much as 0.7
percent, erasing earlier gains. All but two of measure’s sub-
indexes decreased.  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , Australia’s second-biggest energy
producer, sank 2.6 percent to A$43.88 in Sydney. Smaller rival
 Santos Ltd. (STO)  fell 2 percent to A$13.76. PTT Pcl, Thailand’s
largest oil company, dropped 2.4 percent to 331 baht in Bangkok.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at   sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 