-- 
Asian Currencies Weaken as Slowing Growth Dims Region’s Export Outlook

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-06-08T08:54:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/asian-currencies-weaken-as-slowing-growth-dims-region-s-export-outlook.html
Asian currencies weakened, led by
Malaysia’s ringgit and Singapore’s dollar, on concern slowing
economic growth will temper demand for the region’s exports.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index dropped 0.2
percent as Asian stocks declined for a fourth day in five. U.S.
equities retreated yesterday after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the economic recovery was “frustratingly
slow” and offered no hints on a new stimulus program. The
 International Monetary Fund  said its 26 billion-euro ($38
billion) loan to Portugal “entails important risks” and
Germany said bondholders must share a second bailout package for
Greece.  “We see growing concern about an economic slowdown in
Japan and the U.S. and that’s not good for Asia’s export
outlook,” said  Hideki Hayashi , a global economist at Mizuho
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Stock markets are not doing well.”  The ringgit weakened 0.3 percent to 3.0170 per dollar as of
4:46 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Thailand’s baht slipped 0.2 percent to 30.33 and the
Philippine peso fell 0.2 percent to 43.243.  Malaysia’s currency also dropped on concern slowing growth
will damp the outlook for further interest-rate increases.  Bank
Negara  Malaysia next reviews borrowing costs on July 7.  “Confidence on global economic growth appears to have
ebbed and that is putting pressure on emerging-market assets,”
said Manokaran Mottain, a senior economist at AmResearch Sdn. in
 Kuala Lumpur . “This may raise the odds of Bank Negara holding
off a rate increase.”  Thai Elections  A report today showed South Korea’s economy grew 1.3
percent in the first quarter from the preceding three months,
slower than the 1.4 percent estimated in April. Taiwan’s exports
rose 9.5 percent in May from a year earlier, the least since a
4.6 percent contraction in October 2009, official data showed
today.  Reports showing weakness in the  U.S. economy , including an
increase in the unemployment rate to 9.1 percent in May, the
highest this year, has raised the odds the Fed will hold its
benchmark interest rate near zero into next year. New York Fed
President  William Dudley  said the U.S. recovery remains
“distinctly subpar.”  The  Thai baht  declined after overseas investors cut their
holdings of local shares before elections on July 3. Global
funds sold $163 million more Thai stocks than they bought in the
first two days of this week, according to exchange data.  China ’s yuan strengthened 0.08 percent to 6.4757 per dollar
and reached 6.4755, the strongest level in 17 years, after the
central bank fixed its reference rate at the highest since July
2005. Inflation pressure in  Asia ’s biggest economy is
“relatively large,” Xu Xianping, vice chairman of the National
Development and Reform Commission, said today.  Rupiah Touches High  Indonesia’s rupiah earlier touched a seven-year high of
8,499 per dollar, and last traded unchanged from yesterday at
8,518, on speculation the central bank will favor appreciation
to help tame inflation. All 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
expect  Bank Indonesia  to hold its benchmark interest rate at
6.75 percent tomorrow.  “We expect Bank Indonesia to opt for non-policy-rate tools
such as allowing the rupiah to appreciate,” said Jennifer Kusuma, a Singapore-based rates strategist at Standard Chartered
Plc. “There’s room to pause in the next one to two months”
while inflation eases, she said.  Elsewhere, Taiwan’s dollar advanced 0.1 percent to NT$28.72
against its U.S. counterpart and South Korea’s won gained 0.2
percent to 1,080.10. Vietnam’s dong was little changed at 20,565
as was India’s rupee at 44.68.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in  Singapore  at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  