-- 
Austan Goolsbee Finds Tenure an Offer He Can’t Refuse in Leaving Obama

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-06-08T18:09:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/austan-goolsbee-finds-tenure-an-offer-he-can-t-refuse-in-leaving-obama.html
Austan Goolsbee , who spent the last
30 months trying to push the  U.S. economy  to create jobs, is
leaving the White House to save his own: The president’s top
economic adviser is heading back to the University of  Chicago  so
he won’t lose tenure.  Goolsbee, 41, is the latest in a string of administration
officials to leave Washington to avoid surrendering their
permanent jobs in academia.  “It’s similar to ‘more time with family’ in that it closes
the issue,” said Deborah Tannen, a linguistics professor at
Georgetown University in Washington and the author of “Talking
from 9 to 5: Women and Men at Work.”  Lawrence Summers, who had previously served as president of
Harvard University in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , left his White
House job as head of the National Economic Council in December,
saying he had to do so to keep his tenure. Summers, 56, now a
professor at Harvard’s John F. Kennedy School of Government, is
listed on the university’s website as teaching two economics
classes in the spring semester.  Alan Krueger resigned in November as the Treasury
Department’s chief economist when his two-year leave from
Princeton University in Princeton,  New Jersey , ended.  “Any other reason you can think of would invite follow-up
questions,” Tannen said. “But no one is going to say, ‘What is
it about your family that makes you want to spend time with
them?’ or ‘Why do you want tenure?’”  Three-Year Leave  Goolsbee, who began advising President  Barack Obama  when
Obama first ran for the  U.S. Senate  in 2004, has been on leave
for almost three years. He worked on the 2008 presidential
campaign and was confirmed as a member of the White House
Council of Economic Advisers in March 2009, becoming chairman
last September.  He’s often been the face of the administration on
television, defending Obama’s policies and putting the best spin
on two years of often bad economic news. On June 3, he portrayed
the report showing the  unemployment rate  rose to 9.1 percent in
May, the highest of the year, as a “little bump.”  “Most of those who leave government are ready to do so,”
said Thomas Mann, a political analyst at the  Brookings
Institution  in  Washington . “These jobs are tough, especially to
those used to an academic schedule.”  Real Threat  Whether the school would revoke Goolsbee’s tenure if he
remained at the White House is unclear, as University of Chicago
officials wouldn’t talk specifically about him. Its policy is to
grant leaves for only a year, said Allan Friedman, a spokesman
for the university’s Booth School of Business.  “Exceptions are sometimes made, in particular for
government service,” Friedman said. “Final decisions about
approving leaves of absence are made by the provost’s office.”  Still, the threat is real, even for those who are trying to
save the economy -- or the world.  “Most public universities are tough on the two-year-leave
rule,” said James Thurber, director of the Center for
Congressional and Presidential Studies at American University in
Washington. “He would have lost his tenure.”  Thurber added: “Was it worth it? I don’t know. Kissinger
lost tenure at Harvard after two years’ leave.”  No ‘Limitless’ Leaves  Barry Toiv, vice president for public affairs at the
Association of American Universities, said institutions are
generous in allowing their professors to take leave to perform
public service. But that leave “can’t be limitless.”  “It would be pretty difficult to operate if they couldn’t
depend on their faculty being available to teach and conduct
research,” Toiv said in an e-mail. “And if they make one
exception ...”  Harvard University  forced Henry Kissinger to resign his
post as a professor of government in January 1971, two years
after he left the university to serve as President Richard Nixon’s national security adviser, according to an  article  at
the time in The Crimson, the university newspaper.  The resignation was accompanied, however, by a series of
measures to induce Kissinger to return, including a
recommendation that he be reappointed if he reapplied before
November 1972, the paper said.  Moynihan and Harvard  Daniel Patrick Moynihan resigned as Nixon’s counselor for
urban affairs in 1970 to retain his Harvard tenure, according to
The Crimson. He left again when Nixon named him ambassador to
 India , and he went on to be elected to the U.S. Senate from  New
York  as a Democrat.  Goolsbee earned bachelor’s and master’s degrees in
economics from  Yale University  and received his Ph.D. from the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology , according to the
 University of Chicago ’s website. He describes himself on his
 university web page  as a “data hound” who studies the Internet
economy, taxes and government policy.  The return to academia is likely to be lucrative for
Goolsbee, who has three children. In his last year at Chicago,
he earned $465,000, according to federal financial disclosure
reports. Goolsbee’s salary as CEA chairman is $191,300 a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  