-- 
Axa Unit Agrees to Purchase Citigroup Buyout Fund Assets for $1.7 Billion

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-06-08T20:15:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/axa-agrees-to-buy-citigroup-buyout-fund-assets-for-1-7-billion.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  agreed to sell $1.7
billion of leveraged buyout assets to  Axa SA (CS) ’s private equity
unit as the third-biggest  U.S. bank  moves to shrink its balance
sheet.  Axa Private Equity is buying about 207 interests including
stakes in buyout funds managed by KKR & Co. LP,  Blackstone Group
LP (BX)  and  Carlyle Group , and investments Citigroup made directly in
some companies such as First Data Corp., Dominique Senequier,
Axa Private Equity chief executive officer, said in a phone
interview. The price at which the holdings have been acquired
wasn’t disclosed in a joint statement today.  Citigroup has been selling assets following its $45 billion
taxpayer bailout, and transferred those businesses, loans and
securities targeted for disposal into its Citi Holdings
division. Regulators are also requiring banks to reserve more
capital for riskier assets, including stakes in buyout funds,
making them less attractive for lenders to hold.  “This sale marks the completion of a significant share of
Citi Holdings’ proprietary private equity investments and
demonstrates the progress the Citi Holdings team is making in
reducing non-core assets on our balance sheet,” Mark Mason,
chief operating officer of Citi Holdings, said in the statement.  The sale included New York-based Citigroup’s stake in
Energy Future Holdings Corp., formerly known as TXU Corp.,
according to a person familiar with the matter. The Dallas-based
firm was sold in 2007 to a group led by KKR and TPG Capital in a
$43.2 billion transaction, the largest buyout in history.  Other Holdings Sold  Citigroup also sold investments in SolarReserve Inc., a
 Santa Monica , California-based developer of solar-thermal  power
plants , and MBA Polymers Inc., a plastics recycling firm based
in Richmond,  California , according to the person, speaking on
the condition of anonymity because the matter is private.  Citigroup sold more than $500 million of investments in
funds managed by buyout firm CVC Capital Partners Ltd., three
people with knowledge of the matter previously said in January.
Last year, it transferred management of $4 billion of interests
in its own buyout funds to StepStone Group LLC and sold its
stakes in the funds to Lexington Partners Inc.  Axa Private Equity is raising $3.5 billion to buy holdings
in leveraged-buyout funds from banks and other investors seeking
to reduce their stakes, a person with knowledge of the matter
said last week. The firm bought $1.9 billion of investments in
private-equity funds from  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  in April 2010.  ‘Fair Price’  “This is the culmination of a highly collaborative and
close working relationship with Citigroup,” Senequier said in
the statement. “The excellent visibility of the quality of the
assets enabled us to offer a fair price.”  About 60 percent of the portfolio comprises U.S.-based
assets, she said.  Axa Private Equity, along with Lexington Partners and
London-based Coller Capital Ltd. are raising a total of $14.5
billion this year to buy fund commitments that banks and other
investors are seeking to sell after the 2008 financial crisis.
Almost $11 billion was raised last year for these so-called
secondary transactions after a record $22.8 billion in 2009,
according to London research firm Preqin Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  