-- 
Banks Set Sights on ‘Cheap’ Five-Year Notes as Auction Looms: Japan Credit

-- B y   N o b u y u k i   A k a m a   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 
2011-06-09T08:15:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/banks-set-sights-on-cheap-five-year-notes-as-auction-looms-japan-credit.html
Five-year Japanese notes at the
cheapest this year relative to comparable  U.S. debt  supported
demand at a 2.4 trillion-yen ($30 billion) auction of the
securities today.  The five-year notes yielded 107 basis points yesterday, or
1.07 percentage points, less than same-maturity U.S. notes, the
least since November. The difference in yield between 10-year
and five-year debt Japanese debt was 73.5 basis points, down
from this fiscal year’s peak of 79.5 basis points on April 4.  "There’s a sense that five-year bonds are relatively
cheap," said Kazuya Seki, deputy general manager of the treasury
department at Chuo Mitsui Trust & Banking Co. "Banks’ demand for
the debt remains strong. The central bank will continue its
monetary easing policy."  The narrowing yield gap with U.S. notes gives Japanese
investors less incentive to send funds overseas, adding pressure
on the yen to strengthen. The  Bank of Japan  meets next week amid
calls for more measures to stem the yen’s gains and to help the
economy recover from a record earthquake. The BOJ will likely
maintain its zero rate policy for almost three years, compared
with an estimate of less than two years before the March 11
disaster, according to Nomura Securities Co.  Today’s auction drew bids valued at 3.21 times the amount
on offer, compared with a so-called bid-to-cover ratio of 3.25
at the last auction on May 19. The lowest-accepted price  was
99.92, while traders estimated 99.91. The Ministry of Finance
set a 0.4 percent coupon on the notes, the least since November.  “Relatively Strong”  “The auction results were relatively strong” even with
the low coupon, said Toru Suehiro, a market analyst in  Tokyo  at
Mizuho Securities Co., one of the 24 primary dealers obliged to
bid at government debt sales.  Five-year notes extended their gain to a second day, with
their yields falling one basis point to 0.405 percent as of 4:33
p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest
interdealer debt broker. Ten-year yields retreated two basis
points to 1.13 percent.  Notes maturing in three-to-five years have returned 0.6
percent since the March 11 quake, according to an index compiled
by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Banks’ bond purchases may be driven by surplus cash they
hold. Deposits rose 1.6 percent in April from March, the most in
a year, and offset a 0.5 percent gain in lending, Bank of  Japan 
data show. The gap between deposits and loans widened to a
record 165 trillion yen at the end of May.  “With the widening gap between deposit and lending, banks
have to buy bonds with their ample funds,” said Jun Fukashiro,
who helps manage the equivalent of $16.6 billion at Toyota Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo.  March Earthquake  Damage caused by the March 11 temblor may reach 25 trillion
yen, the government estimates, and helped drive the economy into
its third recession in a decade. Government debt is projected to
reach 219 percent of gross domestic product next year, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has
forecast, a burden that may be exacerbated by efforts to rebuild
after the magnitude-9 quake.  The yen reached 79.70 to the dollar yesterday, the highest
since May 5. Speculation of asset repatriation to pay for quake
damages propelled the rate to a postwar record 76.25 in March,
prompting coordinated intervention by Group of Seven nations.  The yield on five-year notes climbed to 0.625 percent on
Feb. 9, before falling to 0.435 percent on March 15, the day
after the Bank of Japan doubled its asset-purchase fund to 10
trillion yen. The rate slid to 0.395 percent last week as
concern grew over a U.S. economic slowdown.  IMF Suggestion  “Accelerating and expanding the BOJ’s asset purchase
program could guard against deflation risks and support the
recovery,” the Washington-based  International Monetary Fund 
said in a report released in Tokyo yesterday.  Japan’s major banks sold a net 3.07 trillion yen of medium-
term bonds in April, according to data from the  Japan Securities
Dealers Association . Net selling in April in the past two years
preceded consecutive months of net purchases, the data also
show.  “Major banks typically sell more bonds than they buy in
April, so that’s not a cause for concern,” said  Takafumi Yamawaki , chief rate strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
Tokyo. “They have no choice but to buy bonds even if yields are
low, amid concerns over a global economic slowdown and  Europe ’s
debt problems.”  Rating Risk  Lenders may choose to invest in medium-term bonds for
relative safety, said  Koji Ochiai , chief market economist at
Mizuho Investors Securities Co. Even though banks may be
attracted by higher-yielding longer-dated bonds, Japan faces the
risk of a reduction in its long-term  credit rating , he said.  Moody’s Investors Service on May 31 put the country’s debt
rating on review for a downgrade. The rating company said this
week Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s promise to resign
suggests that the “revolving door” of the leadership will
continue, adding to “credit negative developments.”  Japan’s debt will probably swell to 997.7 trillion yen in
the year started April 1, according to the Ministry of Finance.  Standard & Poor’s  said the government lacked a “coherent
strategy” for tackling the debt when it downgraded Japan for
the first time in almost nine years in January. S&P cut Japan’s
rating to AA-, the fourth-highest level and the same as  China ’s,
from AA.  Fitch Ratings  lowered the outlook on Japan’s debt
rating to negative from stable on May 27.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nobuyuki Akama in Tokyo at 
 akam@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  