-- 
China’s Top Farmer to Invest in Argentina’s Patagonian Winemaking, Corn

-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 
2011-06-09T13:51:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/beidahuang-will-invest-1-5-billion-on-patagonian-farms-that-it-won-t-own.html
Heilongjian Beidahuang Nongken Group
Co.,  China ’s biggest farming company, plans to invest $1.5
billion to develop farms and expand a port in southern Argentina
to help guarantee food supplies for the next two decades.  The state-owned Chinese food producer will help finance
wine, corn, soybean and vegetable production in 300,000 hectares
(741,000 acres) of unused land in the arid Patagonian steppe in
Rio Negro province, Maximiliano Bruno, the provincial economy
development secretary, said yesterday at a press conference.
China won’t buy land in Rio Negro, according to Bruno.  China is boosting investment in natural resources from oil
to soybeans as the country seeks energy supplies to power an
accelerating economy and food sources to feed a growing
population. At the same time, Latin American nations including
Argentina and  Brazil  are looking to limit foreign land
acquisitions and boost the value of their commodity exports.  Farmers in Rio Negro “will be kept captive by the Chinese
for 20 years” under the terms of the agreement whereby
Beidahuang will help build irrigation systems for farms and
provide new technologies, Oscar Gomez, Rio Negro’s adviser on
the project, said at the press conference in  Buenos Aires .
Farmers will have to produce and sell to Beidahuang for 20 years
whatever products the company wants, Gomez said.  Beidahuang will build a hydraulic power plant and expand
 San Antonio ’s port, where the produce will be shipped to China,
provincial secretary Bruno said. China in recent years expanded
its regional presence by investing in commodities ranging from
Brazilian and Ecuadorean oil to Peruvian copper.  The investments, which may start as soon as this year, will
be made over the next five to 10 years, said Gomez. The
agreement will last 20 years, he said.  China is the largest buyer of Argentine soybeans, the
country’s main agricultural export, as well as soy-oil. China
became  Argentina ’s third-largest foreign investor in 2010 and is
expanding its presence in  Latin America  by investing in mining,
oil and agricultural products as its seeks commodities supplies.  Beidahuang’s representative in Argentina, Yue Gang Wong,
also participated, in the press conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  