-- 
Bernanke Says ‘Frustratingly Slow’ Recovery Warrants Accommodative Policy

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-06-08T19:11:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/bernanke-says-frustratingly-slow-recovery-warrants-accommodative-policy.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the “frustratingly slow” U.S. recovery warrants
sustained monetary stimulus while predicting that growth will
gain speed in the second half of the year.  “The economy is still producing at levels well below its
potential; consequently, accommodative monetary policies are
still needed,” Bernanke said yesterday in a speech in Atlanta.
At the same time, the Fed “will take whatever actions are
necessary to keep inflation well controlled,” he said.  Bernanke said  consumer spending  is being held back by an
 unemployment rate  that rose to 9.1 percent last month, a drop in
home values and tight credit. Growth is likely to pick up as
fuel prices moderate and factory disruptions ease as Japanese
parts suppliers recover from an earthquake and tsunami, he said.
Stocks fell yesterday as some investors interpreted the comments
as a signal that the Fed is unlikely to deploy a new round of
bond purchases to bolster the economy.  “He’s saying monetary policy is on course and right on,
and there’s no need to change at this point,” said Sung Won Sohn, an economics professor at California State University-
 Channel Islands  and former chief economist at  Wells Fargo & Co .
“The implication is not only will there be no change, but a
third round of quantitative easing is not likely to come.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent yesterday
to 1,284.94 after rallying as much as 0.8 percent. Treasury two-
year note yields dropped two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 0.4 percent in New York, the lowest level this year.
Today, the yield fell one basis point to 0.39 percent at 3:04
p.m. in New York.  ‘Frustratingly Slow’  “Overall, the economic recovery appears to be continuing
at a moderate pace, albeit at a rate that is both uneven across
sectors and frustratingly slow from the perspective of millions
of unemployed and underemployed workers,” Bernanke said.  Bernanke has spurred growth by holding the main interest
rate near zero since December 2008 and expanding the Fed’s
balance sheet to $2.79 trillion. The  Federal Open Market
Committee  said in April it will complete a program to purchase
$600 billion in bonds this month, a policy known as quantitative
easing, and affirmed a pledge to keep interest rates low for an
“extended period.”  History shows that recoveries take longer when they follow
financial crises, according to the 2009 book “This Time Is
Different: Eight Centuries of Financial Folly,” by economists
 Carmen Reinhart  and  Kenneth Rogoff . The authors traced
similarities among crises in 66 countries dating back to
Medieval times, including government defaults, banking panics
and inflationary surges.  ‘Distinctly Subpar’  William C. Dudley, president of the  Federal Reserve Bank of
New York  and vice chairman of the FOMC, said in a separate
speech that “the recovery remains distinctly subpar in spite of
aggressive monetary and fiscal stimulus.”  Bernanke and Dudley both said lawmakers should rein in
budget deficits to ensure long-term growth without cutting back
so quickly as to choke off the recovery.  “Establishing a credible plan for reducing future deficits
now would not only enhance economic performance in the long run,
but could also yield near-term benefits by leading to lower
long-term interest rates,” Bernanke said. On the other hand,
“a sharp fiscal consolidation focused on the very near term
could be self-defeating.”  Inflation Not Ingrained  While a recent increase in inflation is a “concern,”
Bernanke said yesterday he doesn’t see “much evidence that
inflation is becoming broad-based or ingrained in our economy.”  Still, “the longer-run health of the economy requires that
the  Federal Reserve  be vigilant in preserving its hard-won
credibility for maintaining  price stability ,” he said. The Fed
“will take whatever actions are necessary to keep inflation
well controlled.”  The personal consumption expenditures price index, minus
food and energy, rose 1 percent for the 12 months ending April.
That’s below the longer-run inflation goal of 1.7 percent to 2
percent for the PCE index forecast by policy makers in April.  The Fed is “fully committed” to maintaining the dollar’s
purchasing power and to keeping inflation in check, Dudley said
during his speech in New York.  The breakeven rate for five-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, the yield difference between the
inflation-linked debt and comparable maturity Treasuries, has
fallen to 2.05 percentage points from 2.47 percentage points on
April 29.  Breakeven Rates  Breakeven rates are a measure of the outlook for consumer
prices over the life of the securities. The measure has climbed
from 1.24 points on Aug. 27, the day Bernanke signaled the Fed
might embark on a second round of large-scale asset purchases
during a speech in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  If commodity prices stabilize, “the upward impetus to
overall price inflation will wane and the recent increase in
inflation will prove transitory,” Bernanke, 57, said in
yesterday’s speech. Inflation is being restrained by “the
stability of longer-term inflation expectations” and “weak
demand for labor,” he said.  Bernanke said recent data on the labor market show a “loss
of momentum.” He cited last week’s payrolls report, which
showed that companies added 83,000 workers, down from 268,000
the month before.  Households are facing “significant headwinds,” Bernanke
said, such as higher prices for food and energy, declining home
values and still-high unemployment.  Oil Climbs  Oil prices  have climbed 160 percent since February 2009,
while non-fuel commodity prices gained about 80 percent,
Bernanke said. The increase in commodity prices reflects
“strong gains in global demand that have not been met with
commensurate increases in supply,” he said.  The chairman rejected criticism that the Fed’s actions have
pushed down the foreign exchange value of the dollar, and
thereby boosted the price of commodities, saying “many factors
other than monetary policy affect the value of the dollar.”  Commodities as tracked by the 24-member Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Spot Index have rallied about 9 percent this year, led by
gasoil and  Brent crude .  Bernanke said the central bank’s efforts to keep inflation
low and stable are helping the dollar.  “There is a very strong case that what the Fed needs to do
to provide good fundamentals for the dollar in the medium term
is to first keep inflation low and stable, and secondly to help
the economy recover and be strong,” he said in response to
questions after the speech.  Drag on Growth  Waning fiscal stimulus will also exert drag on growth,
Bernanke said. He warned against sharp fiscal cutbacks at a time
when the recovery is still fragile.  The chairman also said the Fed needs to do “more thinking”
about how new rules requiring banks to hold more liquidity will
affect the broader financial system, and that the central bank
wants to create new regulations that won’t “unnecessarily
constrict credit.”  Policy makers have few options left to respond to
accumulating signs of a slowdown after their second round of
asset purchases sparked the harshest political backlash against
the central bank in three decades.  “We’ve gotten inconsistency, hesitancy and unevenness” in
U.S. economic growth, Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said
yesterday in a speech in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “I’m
troubled by what you might describe as a lack of conviction in
this economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  