-- 
Black Diamond Agrees to Buy Assets of Bankrupt GSC Group

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-06-08T18:22:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/black-diamond-has-deal-to-buy-assets-of-bankrupt-investment-firm-gsc-group.html
Black Diamond Capital Management LLC
agreed to buy the assets of GSC Group Inc., an investment-
management firm in bankruptcy, in a deal opposed by lenders
including  UBS AG. (UBS)   GSC’s assets will be sold through two transactions worth
about $275 million to the company, according to a filing today
in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan  by the trustee overseeing
GSC.  The sale is “the best available outcome” for GSC, paying
off lenders and possibly providing a “meaningful recovery” for
unsecured creditors, lawyers for trustee James Garrity said in
court papers.  GSC, based in Florham Park,  New Jersey , filed for
bankruptcy last year and agreed to sell assets to Black Diamond,
an investment firm that is a lender to GSC, following an
auction. A group of lenders to GSC, including Zurich-based UBS
and French bank  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , opposed the deal.  Garrity plans to sell most of GSC’s assets to Black Diamond
in a $235.7 million deal based on the earlier auction. Black
Diamond, as agent for the lenders, is bidding $224 million in
debt owed by GSC, according to the filing. Other assets will be
sold in the second sale.  The lender group that includes UBS opposes the new deal
with Black Diamond and is pursuing its own restructuring plan
for the firm, Evan Hollander, a lawyer for the group, said in an
interview.  ‘Small Fraction’  The Black Diamond sale pays only “a very small fraction”
of the lenders’ claims, Hollander said. The deal would give GSC
lenders between $24 million and $38 million in exchange for
releasing about $255 million in claims under a credit facility,
he said.  Under the lender group’s proposed bankruptcy plan, the
lenders will receive between $173.6 million and $229 million,
according to Hollander.  Garrity couldn’t be reached for comment.  The case is In re GSC Group Inc., 10-14653,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  