-- 
Blustery States Boost Wind Power Over Gas With U.S. Tax Break

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-06-08T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/blustery-states-boost-wind-power-over-gas-with-u-s-tax-break.html
A U.S. tax break has helped wind
power stem the growth of natural gas as a power-plant fuel in
blustery states.  The natural-gas share of electricity generation increased
by less than 1 percent over the past decade in states such as
 North Dakota  that have strong winds to drive turbines, a
Bloomberg Government Study found. It grew 17 percent in states
such as  Florida , where there was no wind to compete with gas.  A production tax credit valued at 2.2 cents for every
kilowatt-hour of  wind energy  has encouraged the growth of the
alternative energy source. Natural gas accounted for 16 percent
of U.S. electricity generation in 2000 and grew to 24 percent in
2010, according to the study.  “With the benefit of the federal and state subsidies,
wind-generated electricity has tended to push out the more
expensive sources of electricity generation,” Paul Hughes, a
senior economic analyst for Bloomberg Government, wrote in the
study. “In many cases that displaced energy has been generated
from natural gas.”  In high and medium-wind states, coal generation fell by 5.5
percent and 1.9 percent, compared with decreases of 9.1 percent
in states where less than 1 percent of electricity is generated
by wind and 11.1 percent in those where none is. Coal generation
produces more  carbon emissions  linked to  climate change  than
natural gas, while wind generation is emission-free.  Renewable Requirements  Twenty-nine states, the  District of Columbia  and  Puerto
Rico  set requirements for the use of renewable energy such as
wind, solar and geothermal sources, according to data compiled
by North Carolina State University with funding by the Energy
Department.  The federal tax credit, aimed at encouraging the
development of renewable power, was created in 1992 and extended
in one and two-year intervals, according to the  American Wind
Energy Association , a Washington-based lobby group. The credit
applies to the first decade of production and is set to expire
at the end of next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  