-- 
Boeing Pushes Sales of Sub-Hunting 737 Ahead of Engine Decision

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-06-09T04:56:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/boeing-urges-737-military-sales-sooner-with-jet-s-fate-unknown.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  is urging governments to
buy new 737-based military aircraft “sooner rather than later”
as the commercial version of the plane faces a redesign in a few
years or retirement next decade.  The planemaker’s review of the 737, the world’s most widely
flown airliner, may affect production of the P-8 variant used as
a submarine hunter, Vice President Chuck Dabundo, the program
manager, said yesterday at a briefing in Seattle, where Boeing’s
commercial operations are based.  Boeing is considering a mid-decade redesign to fit new,
larger engines for the 737 to compete with the upgraded Airbus
SAS A320neo. The company has said it may instead develop a new
narrow-body jet in about 2019 or 2020, then discontinue the 737
a few years later. Boeing’s defense unit is presenting the 737
as a replacement for military jets based on older commercial
planes such as the 707.  “For the customer base we see in the near-term, we’ve got
coverage there,” Dabundo said. “It’s the folks thinking about
it, looking into the mid- to late-20s, we’re encouraging them to
get on board sooner rather than later.”  Boeing has orders for the P-8 surveillance plane from the
U.S. and Indian navies. The U.S. Defense Department has
requested $3 billion in the  fiscal 2012 budget  to fund 11 P-8A
planes and buy advanced parts for 13 jets next year. The U.S.
Navy has said it needs a fleet of 117 P-8s, which would extend
the program through early next decade, according to Boeing. Of
the eight P-8s sold to  India , the final assembly for the first
one began last month, and the last one is due to be delivered in
2016, Dabundo said.  Global Potential  Boeing said it may sell as many as 75 P-8 surveillance
planes to  Australia ,  Canada ,  Saudi Arabia ,  Norway  and  Italy . The
planemaker aims to boost overseas defense sales to 25 percent of
the total by 2015, from 17 percent last year, as the U.S.
contemplates cuts in military spending.  The company is also trying to extend the P-8 and the 737
platform into other roles and missions. Boeing is working on a
proposal, for example, to sell the U.S.  Air Force  a ground
surveillance version of the Navy’s sub-hunting P-8.  Boeing also uses the 737 for an Airborne Warning & Control
System aircraft for Australia,  Turkey  and  South Korea , and aims
to sell that plane to India,  Japan  and the  United Arab Emirates .  Decision Points  Commercial customers’ needs will drive Chicago-based
Boeing’s engine decision, and then the Navy will have to decide
what it wants, Dabundo said.  Boeing might be able to keep building the old plane
alongside a revamped model if the Navy doesn’t want to switch,
he said. The new engines would require changes to the plane’s
fuselage and landing gear.  The company created a new manufacturing process for the P-
8, benefiting from work done to streamline production of the
737. Previously, the defense unit took commercial planes and cut
them apart to turn them into military derivative aircraft.  The P-8 is built in the same plants as the 737 with
features such as thicker fuselage skin, no windows, bomb bays,
and stronger wings to hold missiles. The plane is then sent to a
different site in  Seattle , a few miles away from the 737 plant,
for weapons and other systems to be added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  