-- 
Bogota’s Sale of ETB Shares Is ‘Best’ Option, Plazas Says

-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-06-08T16:00:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/bogota-s-sale-of-etb-shares-is-best-option-plazas-says-1-.html
Bogota’s mayor’s office will stick to
its plan to propose on June 10 a sale of part or all of its
majority stake in  Empresa de Telecomunicaciones de Bogota (ETB)  SA
after an opposition city councilman proposed an alternative plan
yesterday to maintain the city’s control of the phone company.  “We insist,” said Cristina Plazas, who was appointed last
month to handle the share sale proposal for the mayor’s office.
“We’re convinced that selling the business is the best
option.”  Plazas’s proposal would open the way for the city to sell
part or all of its 86.6 percent stake in ETB. Colombia’s capital
city is seeking a buyer to finance the phone company’s planned
expansions after a failed two-year search for what it called
“strategic” partners.  Councilman Jaime Caicedo, of the Polo Democratico
Alternativo party, proposed a five-year plan yesterday to
“save” the company serving  Colombia ’s capital from private
ownership by reinvesting 1.5 trillion pesos from profits of the
company and Empresa de Energia de Bogota SA, according to a
statement on the council’s website.  ETB fell 2 percent to 730 pesos at 11:36 a.m. New York
time. The stock has fallen 33 percent in the past year, the most
among companies in Colombia’s IGBC Index.  The government named Plazas as ad hoc mayor last month to
handle the proposal after acting Bogota mayor Maria Fernanda
Campo declared a conflict of interest because she holds ETB
shares, according to a decree on the presidential website.  President  Juan Manuel Santos  appointed Campo, who had been
serving as education minister, to fill in for mayor Samuel
Moreno after he was suspended on May 3 for three months amid a
graft probe of alleged kickbacks from government contractors.  Santos said last week he has been considering nominees from
Moreno’s Polo Democratico Alternativo party and will pick a
mayor by this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 Bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  