-- 
Boston Scientific, Barnes, Bi-Mart: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-06-08T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/boston-scientific-barnes-noble-forever-21-intellectual-property.html
Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) , the second-
biggest maker of implanted heart devices, won an appeals court
ruling in a patent-infringement case against Johnson & Johnson.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
Washington yesterday upheld a lower court ruling that four
patents on drug-coated stents owned by J&J’s Cordis unit are
invalid because the company failed to accurately describe the
invention. The case is one of multiple disputes between J&J and
Boston Scientific over stents, mesh tubes that prop open
arteries.  The decision may also benefit  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , which is
being sued by Cordis over the same technology and had won a
district court ruling last year that the patents were invalid.
Abbott Park, Illinois-based Abbott makes Xience stents and
licenses the Promus stent to Natick, Massachusetts-based Boston
Scientific.  Cordis’s Cypher stent uses  rapamycin , also called
sirolimus, to limit the growth of scar tissue that can cause the
artery to narrow. Cordis’s patents were for compounds derived
from rapamycin, and the appeals court ruling centered on whether
scientists had actually done research on derivatives as Cordis
claimed or the company merely added language to the patent that
any potential analog is covered.  The case stemmed from Boston Scientific lawsuits that
sought rulings that the Promus stent wasn’t infringing the
patents. Promus uses the compound everolimus to prevent tissue
growth.  Boston Scientific last year agreed to pay  New Brunswick ,
New Jersey-based J&J $1.73 billion to end some of the other
patent lawsuits between the companies over stent technology.  The case is Boston Scientific Corp. v.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,
2010-1230, 2010-1231; 2010-1233; and 2010-1234, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower court
cases are Boston Scientific Corp. v. Johnson & Johnson, 07cv033,
07cv0348, 07cv409, 07cv765, all U.S. District Court for the
District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  U.K. IPO Asks Whether Existing Law Works for Generics Trials  The U.K.’s  Intellectual Property  Office is seeking comments
on whether existing patent law provides enough protection for
those seeking regulatory approval of generic drugs.  The office is consulting with a wide range of stakeholders
and others, including pharmaceutical companies and their
professional associations, biotech industry groups, intellectual
property lawyers, companies that conduct clinical trials on
behalf of others, individual law firms, technology-transfer
organizations and research institutes.  The deadline for submitting comments to the office is July
31.  Barnes & Noble Sues to Block LSI Patent Royalty Claims on Nook  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) , the largest U.S. bookstore chain, sued
 LSI Corp. (LSI)  to prevent the chipmaker from demanding patent
royalties on sales of the Nook digital reader.  LSI notified Barnes & Noble on June 29, 2010, and at other
times “its intention to pursue claims of infringement of the
LSI patents,” the New York-based bookseller said in a complaint
filed June 6 in federal court in  San Francisco .  The preemptive move reflects the legal headaches Barnes &
Noble is facing since it began manufacturing a technology gadget
in 2009, branching out from its traditional business as a
retailer of books and other products. The company was named in
14 patent-infringement lawsuits last year, up from three in
2008, according to Bloomberg Law data. Including LSI, the
company is involved in nine complaints so far this year.  “If you’re a book company, you never get sued,” said
Robert Yoches, a patent lawyer at Finnegan Henderson in
 Washington  who specializes in electronics cases. “Then you move
online and you get sued a little bit. Now you’ve got an
electronic box. As you add features, it becomes more like a
computer.”  Electronic devices are more frequently the target of patent
suits and royalty demands because the products typically include
thousands of features and circuits, many of which are covered by
patents, he said.  Mary Ellen Keating , a spokeswoman for Barnes & Noble,
declined to comment on the case. The company is seeking an order
that it isn’t using technology covered by 10 LSI patents.  “Barnes & Noble does not infringe and has not infringed
the LSI patents,” the company said in the filing.  LSI makes chips used in computer disk drives and reported
$2.57 billion in revenue last year. The patents cited in the
lawsuit include technology for wireless local-area networks,
ways to enhance communications, and a DVD audio decoder.  Derrick Meyer, a spokesman for the Milpitas, California-
based company, didn’t immediately return a telephone call
seeking comment.  Barnes & Noble in July sued Xerox Corp. and Alcatel-Lucent
SA seeking rulings that it doesn’t have to pay patent royalties
to those companies.  The biggest patent dispute for Barnes & Noble is one
brought by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , which filed a complaint in March at
the U.S. International Trade Commission in Washington seeking to
block imports of the Nook. Microsoft claims any electronics that
run on Google Inc.’s Android operating system, including the
Nook, infringe its patents and is demanding licensing fees.  The case is Barnes & Noble Inc., 11cv02709, U.S. District
Court for the Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Vienna Beef Sues Founder’s Grandson for Infringing Trademarks  Vienna Beef Ltd., a Chicago-based meatpacker that makes
‘Chicago-style” hotdogs, sued the grandson of one of its
founders for trademark infringement.  The lawsuit, filed June 6 in federal court in  Chicago ,
accuses Scott A. Ladany and his  Red Hot Chicago Inc. , of
“hijacking” Vienna’s goodwill, name, history, trade secrets and
products.  Ladany, who left Vienna Beef in 1983, has no affiliation
with the company, and is accused of claiming that his company’s
hot dogs are made with Vienna’s original 108-year-old recipes.
Those recipes are trade secrets that Ladany isn’t authorized to
use, according to court papers.  Vienna claims the public is confused by Ladany’s business
practices, falsely believing that a connection exists between
the two companies. The company accused Ladany and Red Hot
Chicago of trying to convince vendors that their customers
wouldn’t be able to tell the difference between the two
companies’ hot dogs. It also objects to Ladany’s claim “to a
legacy of 118 years of hot dog production.”  Vienna asked the court to bar Ladany’s alleged infringement
of its trademarks and use of its trade secrets, and from
claiming his business is a continuation of Vienna. It also seeks
money damages, including profits Ladany derived from his alleged
infringement, and extra damages to punish him and his company
for their actions.  Additionally, Vienna asked for awards of attorney fees and
litigation costs.  Ladany didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  Vienna Beef is represented by  Jonathan S. Goodman ,  Louis J.
Phillips ,  Jordan Herzog  and  Phillip S. Reed  of Chicago’s  Patzik
Frank & Samotny Ltd .  The case is Vienna Beef Ltd. v. Red Hot Chicago Inc., 11-
cv-0825, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago)  Forever 21 Claims ‘WTForever21.com’ Blog Infringes Trademark  Forever 21 Inc., a Los Angeles-based retail clothing chain,
sent a cease-and-desist letter to a blogger who writes satiric
reviews of items the chain sells.  Rachel D. Kane, who writes the WTForever21.com blog, was
told that her blog’s name “refers to an abbreviation for
colloquial expression that the general public may find
offensive.” The clothing chain objects to the use of the
expression, WTF, “in conjunction with our company’s name,
registered trademark and domain name.”  She was given until May 2 to respond and comply with the
company requests, according to the letter signed by associate
counsel Jerry Noh. Failure to comply could result in a suit
alleging trademark and copyright infringement, he said.  One of Forever 21’s demands is that the WTForever21.com
blog be taken down. When accessed yesterday, the blog was still
up and running.  Kane said  on her blog that while she loves the store and
her personal wardrobe mainly comprises items she buys there,
“every now and then something goes terribly awry” and makes
her “utter the immortal acronym, WTF.”  She offers the caveat in several places on her blog that
“the term “Forever 21” is a trademark of Forever 21, Inc. This
site is not affiliated with Forever 21, Inc.”  Bi-Mart Settles Dispute Over Country Music Festival Trademark  Bi-Mart Corp.’s trademark dispute over the name for an
 Oregon  music festival has been settled, the Register-Guard
newspaper  reported .  The founder of the Willamette Country Music Festival sued
Bi-Mart in federal court in Eugene, Oregon, Jan. 11. Williamson
claimed he owned the festival and that Bi-Mart was
misappropriating the trademarks by using the same name for an
upcoming event.  He accused Bi-Mart and others involved with the new
festival of trying to trade on the reputation and goodwill he
established, according to court papers.  The case is Willamette Country Music Festival Inc., v. BI-
Mart Corp., 6:11-cv-06007-HO, U.S. District Court, District of
Oregon (Eugene).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  New Zealand ’s New Copyright Law Enforcement May Burden ISPs  New Zealand’s new copyright law, which goes into effect in
September, may lead to Internet service providers receiving
about 3,000 notices a day of customers’ illegal downloading
activity, the New Zealand Herald  reported  today.  Mark Callander, who heads Slingshot, an Internet service
provider in that country, told the Herald he hasn’t heard any
details about how the notification system will work.  Costs to process the notices may be as high as NZ$61 ($50)
apiece, Callander told the Herald.  Guilty Plea Entered in $1 Million Counterfeit Software Case  A 31-year-old Cincinnati resident pleaded guilty to selling
more than $1 million worth of counterfeit software, the U.S.
 Justice Department  said in a  statement .  Brandon C. Davis pleaded guilty to criminal copyright
infringement and other charges in connection with his Internet
sale of financial and tax-preparation software.  He sold the software on  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s auction website, and
mailed the products to buyers with a false disclaimer that he
was acting as a broker for another seller, the government said
in the statement.  Davis faces a potential prison sentence of more than 20
years, and must pay restitution in an amount to be determined by
the court. He also agreed to forfeit all computer items used to
manufacture and distribute the fake software, a 2006 Hummer
vehicle and the $192,000 the U.S. Postal Service seized from his
bank accounts.  Davis was represented by Herbert Jaime Haas of The Citadel
LLC of Cincinnati. The government was represented by Timothy S.
Mangan of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District
of  Ohio , and Tara M. Swaminatha of the Justice Department’s
Criminal Division’s Computer Crime and Intellectual Property
Section.  The case is U.S. v. Davis, 1:11-cr-00061-HJW, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Ohio (Cincinnati).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 