-- 
Brasil Foods Slumps As Antitrust Regulator Says Merger May Hurt Consumers

-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 
2011-06-08T19:51:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/brasil-foods-slumps-as-antitrust-regulator-says-merger-may-hurt-consumers.html
BRF - Brasil Foods SA (BRFS3) , the world’s
largest poultry exporter, dropped to the lowest in six months
and is leading losses in the benchmark Bovespa Index amid
concerns Brazil’s antitrust regulator may reject the planned
$3.81 billion acquisition of Sadia SA.  Brasil Foods  fell 1.70 reais, or 6.1 percent, to 26.20
reais at 4:37 p.m. in Sao Paulo trading, the lowest since Dec.
16, after earlier dropping as much as 7.7 percent.  “Approval without restrictions is off the table, we may
expect an approval with restrictions or even a rejection,” Caue Pinheiro, an analyst with SLW Corretora, said today in a phone
interview from Sao Paulo. “The regulator is emphasizing the
fact that the company increased prices after the merger and
didn’t bring benefits to consumers.” He rates it a “sell.”  Brazil ’s antitrust agency, known as Cade, will vote as soon
as today on the purchase of Sadia by Sao Paulo-based Brasil
Foods, formerly known as Perdigao SA. Rivals of Brasil Foods
don’t have enough spare capacity to compete with the expanded
company, and the merger may hurt consumers if approved,
antitrust regulator Carlos Ragazzo said today in Brasilia.  “The merger has the potential to damage the market,”
Ragazzo, who is in charge of the case at Cade, said during
today’s voting session.  Competition Concerns  Brasil Foods’ assets could hurt competition, Ragazzo said.
The company, which may control 90 percent of some markets, has
sufficient market share to increase prices without losing
consumers, he said.  In a May 10 report, the antitrust agency said Brasil Foods
must allow competition by a third company and may also have to
share gains with customers.  The transaction that created Brasil Foods in July 2009 is
the second-largest among 166 industry deals totaling $24.2
billion worldwide since that year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Brazilian beef producer JBS SA’s September 2009 buy
of Bertin SA is the largest at $6.31 billion, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in  Sao Paulo  at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 