-- 
Brasil Foods Sinks as Cade Says Should Be Blocked

-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 
2011-06-17T20:06:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/brasil-foods-merger-should-be-blocked-brazilian-antitrust-regulator-says.html
(Corrects to show only one member voted against transaction
in third paragraph of story originally published June 9.)  BRF - Brasil Foods SA (BRFS3) , the world’s
largest poultry exporter, fell to the lowest in more than six
months after a  Brazil  antitrust commissioner said the $3.8
billion deal should be blocked as it has too much market share.  Brasil Foods, created about two years ago after Perdigao
SA’s acquisition of Sadia SA, declined 84 centavos, or 3.2
percent, to 25.31 reais in Sao Paulo trading. The stock earlier
declined 7 percent to the lowest since Nov. 23, after yesterday
falling as much as 7.7 percent. The drop erased $1.62 billion
from Brasil Foods’ market value over two days.  The Sao Paulo-based company can boost prices without losing
customers, Carlos Ragazzo, one of five antitrust commissioners,
who analyzed the case and recommended the agency reject the two-
year old deal, said yesterday. The session was postponed for a
week.  “Everyone was expecting the merger to be approved and two
years later Cade casts this huge shadow,” Fausto Gouveia, who
helps manage 250 million reais ($160 million) at Legan Asset
Management, said today in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo .
“In the best scenario, the deal will be approved, but it will
have to sell assets, which means less cash generation.”  Brasil Foods was cut to “underperform” from “market
perform” today by Raymond James equity analyst  Daniela Bretthauer . The stock was also downgraded to “neutral” from
“buy” by Fabio Monteiro, an analyst at Banco BTG Pactual.  Final Decision  Brazil’s antitrust agency, known as Cade, will make a final
decision at its next meeting on June 15 after a request to delay
voting was made by member Ricardo Ruiz. In Brazil, regulators
can reject a merger or force changes to it even after the
companies have already combined operations.  “Seldom does one find in antitrust analysis a transaction
in which the likelihood of damage to the market and consumers is
so evident,” Ragazzo said in Brasilia while arguing against the
deal. “The proposed act is a textbook case as an example of a
transaction that is impossible to be approved.”  Fernando de Magalhaes Furlan, head of Cade, abstained from
voting as he is a cousin of  Brasil Foods ’s board member Luiz Fernando Furlan. Magalhaes also worked for Sadia between 1995
and 1998, according to information on Cade’s website.  Yields on Brasil Foods bonds due 2020 surged 21 basis
points, or 0.21 percentage point, to 6.08 percent at 4:17 p.m.
New York time, the most since November, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Notes due 2017 climbed 13 basis points to
5.56 percent.  ‘Still Optimistic’  The company is still “optimistic” it can negotiate a
solution with the regulator, Wilson Mello, vice president of
institutional relations at Brasil Foods, told reporters
yesterday in Brasilia after the hearing. In a separate
statement, the company said the postponement of the ruling was
“positive” as it gives officials more time to review the case.  “The negative vote has raised the probability of an
outright rejection of the merger,” Jose Yordan and Rebeca Sanchez Sarmiento, analysts at Deutsche Bank, wrote in a note to
clients today. “We do not think that today’s fall marks the
bottom for the stock.” They rate Brasil Foods “hold.”  Perdigao bought Sadia in 2009 after its bigger rival booked
more than 3 billion reais in wrong-way currency bets as the real
declined after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holding Inc. The
producer of meat and dairy products, margarine, and frozen pizza
had sales of 22.7 billion reais in 2010.  Brazil accounts for about 60 percent of the company’s sales
and the remainder is shipped to 140 countries and sold under
brands including Sadia, Perdigao and Perdix.  Pension Funds  The company is controlled by Previ and Petros, the pension
funds for employees in Banco do Brasil SA and state-controlled
oil producer  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , which own 12.7 percent and
10 percent of the company. It has 41 distribution centers and 60
plants in Brazil, one in  Argentina , two in  Europe  and employs
113,000, according to the company’s website. It owns 45 brands.  Brasil Foods must allow competition by a third company and
may also have to share gains from the deal with customers,
according to a May 10 report by Gilvandro Vasconcelos Coelho de
Araujo, general attorney of Brazil’s antitrust agency.  Brasil Foods said May 13 that first-quarter profit rose
more than sixfold as demand for processed food and chicken
exports offset increased commodities costs.  Net income increased to 383 million reais from 61 million
reais in the year-earlier period, the company said. Revenue
climbed 19 percent to 6.1 billion reais.  Operating profit was boosted by increased demand for foods
including chicken, Brasil Foods said.  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , the
biggest U.S. meat processor, also reported chicken sales rose as
more expensive beef and pork boosted poultry demand. Brasil
Food’s chicken exports gained 11 percent in the quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net .
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia Newsroom at
   idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  