-- 
Brazil Signals More Rate Increases to Come After Raising Selic to 12.25%

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 
2011-06-09T13:01:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/brazil-raises-key-interest-rate-to-12-25-after-inflation-exceeds-target.html
Brazil ’s central bank raised the
benchmark lending rate for a fourth straight time and signaled
it is prepared to increase borrowing costs further, bucking
economists’ projections.  Policy makers kept a pledge to raise borrowing costs for a
“sufficiently long period” to bring inflation back to target
in 2012, in a statement accompanying yesterday’s decision to
boost the Selic a quarter-point to 12.25 percent. Analysts had
expected the rate to reach 12.50 percent in July and remain
there until year-end, a June 3 central bank survey said.  The wording shows bank President Alexandre Tombini plans to
raise the Selic more than a quarter-point to cool inflation that
in April breached the 6.5 percent upper limit of the bank’s
target range for the first time since 2005, said  Marcelo Salomon, chief economist for Brazil at Barclays Plc.   Brazil’s
rate rises have helped stoke a 17 percent climb in the real
against the dollar in the past year.  “There’s more to come,” Salomon said in a phone interview
from  New York . “If they’d wanted to signal that this was the
last one, or that they are close to the last one, they would
have changed the phrase.”  With unemployment near a record low, and credit expanding
at a 20 percent annual pace, inflationary risks in Latin
America’s biggest economy remain high. Yesterday’s decision,
part of what the bank called a “gradual” adjustment of
monetary conditions, matched the forecast of 51 of 52 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Trader Expectations  Most interest rate futures contracts maturing between July
2011 and October 2012 rose, as traders increased bets the
central bank will continue to raise rates.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2012, the most traded on the  Sao Paulo  exchange, rose
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 12.40 percent at
8:53 a.m. New York time.  The real fell 0.3 percent to 1.5865 per  U.S. dollar . The
currency has gained 4.7 percent against the dollar in the last
three months, the second-best performance among seven Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg, after the Colombian
peso.  Nationwide, workers are demanding bigger wage increases.
Firemen in  Rio de Janeiro , assembly line workers for Volkswagen
AG in Parana state and transportation workers in Brasilia are
all currently on strike, demanding raises above inflation.  ‘Price Stability’  In its most recent quarterly inflation report, the central
bank said moderation in wage increases is “a key element for
obtaining a macroeconomic environment with  price stability .”  “There is a lot of anecdotal evidence that shows employees
empowered to demand higher wages, especially in construction,”
said Gustavo Rangel, chief Brazil economist for ING Financial
Markets in New York. “That’s the biggest risk.”  Rangel, before yesterday’s decision, said that he expects
two further quarter-point rate increases this year.  Economists covering Brazil’s economy lowered their year-end
inflation forecast to 6.22 percent, according to the median
estimate in a weekly central bank survey published June 6, down
from an estimate of 6.37 percent at the end of April.  Monthly inflation slowed to 0.47 percent in May, from 0.77
percent in April, as fuel prices slumped and a stronger currency
cut costs for imported  consumer goods . The central bank targets
inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  Budget Cut  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government earlier this year cut
50.7 billion reais ($32 billion) from its 2011 budget, while in
December the central bank raised banks’ reserve requirements. In
April, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  doubled to 3 percent the
so-called IOF tax on  consumer credit .  Brazil’s economy gained speed in the first quarter. Gross
domestic product expanded 1.3 percent from the previous three-
month period. In the fourth quarter of 2010, GDP grew 0.8
percent.  Tombini told lawmakers March 22 that growth in consumer
credit of more than 15 percent needs to be monitored “very
carefully.” Total outstanding credit rose 21 percent from a
year earlier in April  Even though domestic demand remains heated, Brazil’s
inflation fight may be helped by a continued slowdown in the
global economy, said Flavio Serrano, chief economist at Espirito
Santo Investment Bank.  “Leaving analysts in doubt about the duration of the
tightening cycle is very positive,”  Zeina Latif , a  Latin
America  strategist at RBS Securities Inc., said in a phone
interview from Sao Paulo. “It reinforces the bank’s credibility
by signaling they will not stop ahead of time because of short
term data.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  