-- 
Brazilian Coffee Farmers Invest in Yield Improvement, Cepea Says

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-06-08T09:44:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/brazilian-coffee-farmers-invest-in-yield-improvement-cepea-says.html
Coffee producers in  Brazil , the
world’s largest grower, are investing in quality and yield
improvement after prices soared in the past year, according to
Cepea, a university of Sao Paulo research group.  The price of arabica coffee, used in specialty drinks such
as those made by Starbucks Corp., has risen 96 percent over the
past year. Heavy rains in  Colombia , the world’s second-largest
producer of the variety, have damaged crops, helping send prices
to a 14-year high of $3.089 a pound on May 3.  Higher coffee prices in the second-half of 2010 and this
year have led producers to expand production, Cepea analyst
Margarete Boteon wrote in a report yesterday. “In some regions,
such as the Cerrado mineiro, this advance might mean an increase
in the planted area. In most areas, however, coffee growers may
invest preferably in quality, yield and in the renewal of
crops.”  Milder temperatures in Brazil’s coffee-producing region are
slowing maturation and fermentation, which may lead to better-
quality beans, weather forecaster Somar Meteorologia said in a
report last month.  “Brazilian coffee producers are enthusiastic about the
quality of the first coffees that are arriving at coffee
yards,” broker Escritorio Carvalhaes wrote in a report e-mailed
on June 6. “Cherries ripened uniformly and favorable climate
conditions contributed.”  A shortage of fine cups, as higher quality beans are known,
earlier this year lifted the price of coffee traded on Brazil’s
futures exchange BM&F Bovespa above that of beans on ICE Futures
U.S. in  New York  for the first time since at least 1999, data on
Bloomberg showed.  Brazilian coffee output will drop to 43.5 million bags this
year from 48.1 million bags last year as trees enter the lower-
yielding half of a two-year cycle, the  Agriculture Ministry ’s
crop-forecasting agency, known as Conab said in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 