-- 
Brewer Offers to Toughen Arizona Jobless Rules

-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 
2011-06-08T21:23:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/brewer-offers-tougher-arizona-rules-to-save-u-s-jobless-aid.html
Arizona Governor Jan Brewer would
require the unemployed to look for work four days a week and
take any offered job that pays at least minimum wage, under
rules proposed to save extended benefits in her state.  The new requirements, unveiled in an  op-ed published today ,
are part of a last-minute push by the 66-year-old Republican to
win over lawmakers from her own party to stop the expiration of
U.S.-funded benefits for 15,000 people on June 11.  The benefits would be “a lifeline worth a little more than
$200 a week to unemployed Arizonans who demonstrate and document
their efforts to find work,” she wrote in the Arizona Republic
about the program that provides 20 additional weeks of benefits
to the long-time unemployed. Without the change, benefits expire
at 79 weeks. “As part of this action, I’m proposing steps to
safeguard against program fraud and abuse.”  Unemployment benefits around the country have come under
scrutiny as some Republicans look to scale back benefits and
government spending. Most of those efforts have targeted the
first 26 weeks of unemployment, which are state-funded.  The stalemate in  Arizona  is over benefits worth more than
$3 million per week to the state that are entirely funded by the
federal government. The payments will lapse this week without
action because the state’s unemployment rate fell. By year-end,
almost 45,000 people could be affected, with a loss of about $90
million to the economy, the state’s Economic Security Department
estimates.  Looking Back  To keep the aid coming, the Legislature would need to
reconvene to revise a formula in  state law  to match federal
rules, which allows extended benefits when unemployment is at
least 10 percent higher than it was three years ago. Previously
the “look-back” period was 24 months. More than half of the
states have made the change. The Arizona Legislature adjourned
April 20 without addressing the issue.  Arizona’s April jobless rate at 9.3 percent was unchanged
from the same month in 2009 while almost double April 2008’s 4.9
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In other states where benefits lapsed or are set to lapse
this week, leaders have acted to preserve the benefits or are
moving to make the change.  Lawmakers in  Alabama  passed a change to permit the longer
look-back on June 2, with little opposition, according to
Representative Jack Williams, a Republican from Vestavia Hills
and a sponsor. He said that about 16,000 people would have lost
benefits this month without the revision, which is expected to
be approved soon by Governor Robert Bentley, another Republican.  In  North Carolina , where benefits also lapsed in April,
Democratic Governor Beverly Perdue went around the Republican-
controlled Legislature to order benefits restored June 3 for
47,000 workers.  Targeting Abuse  Brewer’s spokesman, Matthew Benson, said the governor made
the offer to tighten the requirements for recipients of extended
benefits to counter concerns by some lawmakers that the program
was being abused. Federal law requires those receiving the
benefits to look for work at least two days a week and accept
any job that pays more than the benefits.  In Arizona, where benefits are capped at $240 per week, the
job would have to pay the minimum wage, said Steve Meissner,
spokesman for the Economic Security Department. Brewer’s
proposal would add additional accountability to the existing
rules, according to Benson.  Daniel Scarpinato, a spokesman for Arizona House Speaker
Andy Tobin, a Republican from Paulden, said there aren’t enough
votes among Republicans in the House to enact the emergency
clause required to restore the benefits immediately -- even with
the new rules. Tobin has proposed that the governor win the
votes by including “job-creation incentives” as part of the
package, such as two corporate tax-break proposals that Brewer
vetoed earlier this year.  “We need to make sure when the 20 weeks are up that there
are jobs for the unemployed folks out there,” Scarpinato said
in a phone interview today. 