-- 
Bucs Receiver Fires His Gardener as NFL Haggles Over $9 Billion

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-06-08T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/bucs-receiver-fires-gardener-as-nfl-haggles-with-players-over-9-billion.html
Capri Truvillion-Gant’s husband
should be practicing his pass-catching for the  National Football
League ’s Tampa Bay Buccaneers. Instead, she’s got him mowing the
lawn.  Truvillion-Gant, 38, says she and her husband, Ed Gant,
fired their gardener in one of the cutbacks they are making
after the U.S.’s most-popular television sport locked out
players three months ago.  “I told him you’re very lucky you need a license to work
on an air conditioning unit, or you’d be fixing that, too,”
Truvillion-Gant said in a telephone interview from the family’s
home in Chandler,  Arizona .  NFL and National Basketball Association players are being
told to spend less these days by people including their wives,
unions, agents and financial advisers. The NFL locked out
players in March after talks broke down on how to divide about
$9 billion in revenue, the most of any sports league. A majority
of NBA players, whose labor agreement expires June 30, received
their final season paychecks on May 1.  The average NFL salary in 2009, the last season a figure is
available, was $1.89 million; this season in the NBA it was $5.8
million.  Michael Marchiano, who manages portfolios for more than 20
professional athletes at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC’s
office in Morristown,  New Jersey , said the labor problems
emphasize how quickly their high-paid jobs can disappear, so he
treats sports stars like near-retirees. As with people in their
60s, he said, athletes may be at or near their peak earning and
need to manage money conservatively to provide long-term
security.  Save Money  “The NFL stands for ‘Not For Long,’” he said in a
telephone interview. “It’s our job as advisers to talk to the
athletes and their families, saying a strict budget has to be in
place. We have to find ways to cut down on bills and not live
paycheck-to-paycheck.”  The NFL Players Association has spent about two years
telling players to save money, and that’s advice Truvillion-Gant
plans to follow. With no team activities scheduled, Gant, a 24-
year-old who in January  signed a futures contract  with the Bucs
that takes effect whenever the new league year starts, exercises
daily for about four hours at  Arizona State University . The
family gave up its gym membership. His wife is helping him start
an athletic training business. She’s also putting him to work
around the couple’s home.  “I explained to him, ‘Baby, I guess you’ll be cutting the
lawn and pulling weeds and cutting bushes,’” Truvillion-Gant
said. “We made a trip to Home Depot and bought the gloves and
he’s been doing it ever since.”  No Trips  Truvillion-Gant said the couple isn’t taking any trips or
making long-term financial commitments while the lockout
continues. Meanwhile, she’s set to appear on an unscripted
reality program being developed called  “Cougars of
Scottsdale.”   Gant declined to comment on how the family is dealing with
the lockout.  A 56-page “Lockout Handbook” produced by the NBA players
union, with the motto “Hope for the best. Prepare for the
worst,” was given to the league’s roughly 450 players during
the season. It advises them to renegotiate mortgages and rent,
sell any car they haven’t driven in six months, fire stylists
and assistants, and “steer clear of expensive jewelry and
clothing purchases.”  Selling the Bentley  As a union executive committee member, Roger Mason Jr. is
among those charged with warning league players about protecting
their finances.  “It would be pure ignorance not to keep in mind that there
could be a lockout,” Mason, a free agent who played for the  New
York Knicks  last season, said in March.  Mason, an eight-year NBA veteran who earned $1.4 million
for the 2010-11 season, sold his Bentley after he joined the
Knicks following two years with the  San Antonio Spurs . That’s
partly because he now lives in  New York , and partly in
anticipation of a cloudy financial future, he said.  “I owned it outright, had bought it for cash and just
didn’t need it in New York, so I put the money in the bank,”
said Mason, 30.  Dwayne Hendricks, 25, is using his time off from football
to work out and gain some non-NFL job experience. The New York
Giants reserve defensive tackle, who graduated from the
 University of Miami  with a double major in business management
and marketing, spends his days training with his former high
school coach and substitute teaching in his native Millville,
New Jersey.  More Work  “I’m going to take care of what I can take care of,” he
said in an interview. “I just turn a negative into a positive.
Now I have more chances to work on my first step, or my hands,
or my agility.”  Gant and Hendricks don’t suit up on game day unless they
get promoted to the active roster. Anyone on the practice squad
made a minimum of $5,200 a week last season under terms of the
expired collective bargaining agreement.  Hendricks’s agent, Chris Napoli, founder of Miami-based
 NorthStar Sports Representation LLC , said making sure his
clients are both ready to play and solvent when the lockout ends
requires him to do more than negotiate their contracts. He
provides players with in-house lawyers, an accountant and a
referral to Marchiano for  wealth management . He said his phone
has been ringing constantly from families concerned about
budgeting and players seeking advice about purchases.  “You are the person watching,” Napoli said in a telephone
interview. “The thing that lands most players in trouble is
poor fiscal advice. In today’s world, hiring an agent without a
very strong financial understanding would break down to the
equivalent of an NFL team signing an athlete without any
offseason preparation. Probably not the best idea.”  ‘Necessities and Wants’  Brian Burns, a first vice president at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , said
their NFL clients are now receiving about $10,000 a month
through the NFLPA’s lockout fund. They’re talking with the
athletes’ families, separating “necessities and wants.” The
advisers say they typically set up three accounts for each
player: one to use, another to generate income for the first,
and a third that they hopefully won’t touch for years.  “Then, if there’s a lockout, who cares?” he said. “We
set them up properly to get through it.”  Bruce Teilhaber says advice like that is hurting his
business, as he helps fewer size-18 feet into the $975 Mezlan
alligator slip-ons at Friedman’s Shoes. The large-footed men who
play basketball and football have cut their spending by 50
percent at the Atlanta store, where in past seasons they’ve made
up 20 percent of a business that carries designer shoes in sizes
as large as 22, Teilhaber said.  “They were told not to spend any money, and I guess a lot
of them are not,” Teilhaber said in a telephone interview.
“Because I’ll tell you they’re not spending it here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 