-- 
Bulgaria’s Djankov Sees Spending Caps Vote After Elections

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-06-08T14:39:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/bulgaria-s-djankov-sees-spending-caps-vote-after-elections-1-.html
Bulgaria’s Parliament may vote on a
plan to enshrine in the constitution spending limits after Oct.
23 presidential and local elections to avoid “horse trading”
among campaigning candidates.  “I won’t allow something as important to all Bulgarians as
the Financial Stability Pact, to be used in election campaign
horse trading,” Finance Minister  Simeon Djankov  told reporters
in Sofia today. “If a lot of work needs to be done before
putting the final plan to the vote, it can be voted on after the
elections. We wouldn’t want heated political debates to affect
our most important laws.”  Djankov spoke after discussing the proposals with the
incumbent President Georgi Parvanov.  The plan aims to ensure long-term financial stability and
help Bulgaria prepare for euro adoption. It envisages capping
the budget deficit at 2 percent of gross domestic product and
spending at 40 percent of GDP. The plan was given to parliament
on May 27 and it has since set up a special commission to
discuss legal amendments needed before lawmakers vote on the
proposals.  Bulgaria is emerging from its deepest economic slump in
more than a decade and needs to narrow its  budget deficit  to
below 3 percent of GDP to meet euro-adoption criteria. The
government’s budget-shortfall target for this year is 2.5
percent after 3.9 percent in 2010. It forecasts economic growth
this year at 3.6 percent. The economy expanded 3.4 percent in
the first quarter.  The plan requires a two-thirds parliamentary majority or
160 votes to change taxes. Bulgaria has a flat 10 percent
corporate and income tax rate, the lowest in the European Union.
Constitutional changes need to be voted on by three-quarters of
the assembly or 180 lawmakers in three votes on separate days,
according to the  Parliament  website.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  