-- 
Burbank Contrarian Bets on Saudis Show Why Oil Reality Helps Return 23.6%

-- B y   E d w a r d   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-06-08T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/burbank-contrarian-saudi-bets-shows-why-oil-helps-return-23-6-.html
As a hedge- fund manager  who thrives
on turbulence in the commodities markets, John Burbank couldn’t
have done better than the first week of May.  The prices of oil, metals and other raw materials nose-
dived the most in two years as investors retreated from emerging
markets amid surging inflation in  China  and  India  and political
upheaval sweeping through the Middle East and North Africa. For
Burbank, the founder and chief investment officer of San
Francisco-based Passport Capital LLC, the sell-off is an
opportunity. He’s looking to add to the heavy bets he’s made in
the frontier market of  Saudi Arabia , Bloomberg Markets magazine
reports in its July issue.  The Saudi monarchy’s decision to roll tanks into
neighboring Bahrain to help quell an uprising -- as well as the
rebellions in Libya and Syria -- may give some investors pause.
Not  Burbank , a hedge-fund manager who made his name by earning a
220 percent net return in 2007 after shorting subprime
mortgages.  He sees little chance that the Saudi regime will be
overthrown or that crude prices will collapse. As the insular
kingdom opens up to foreign investors -- it didn’t permit
outsiders to buy Saudi stocks until 2008 -- Burbank says now is
the time to plow into the country’s petroleum-rich economy.  He’s acquiring stakes in publicly traded petrochemical
companies, banks, construction firms and even health-care
providers. The Saudi investments made up about 11 percent of
Passport’s $2.1 billion flagship fund, Global Strategy, as of
May.  Unorthodox Methods  “The crisis isn’t affecting the long-term reality that this
is where the oil is,” says Burbank, 47, a beefy man with a full
beard who looks more like a longshoreman than an elite money
manager. “We want exposure to the Saudi economy because the
prices are very cheap and there’s going to be a lot of growth
and higher returns on capital, and that’s something that’s
likely to play out over a number of years.”  Burbank’s Saudi trade is right in character for a money
manager with a knack for using unorthodox methods to exploit the
globe’s scarcity of raw materials. While the commodities
market’s two-year rally skidded in the second quarter -- crude
dropped almost 15 percent and silver shed 28 percent from April
28 to May 9 -- Burbank says the ongoing development of emerging
economies will convert little-known raw material producers into
money machines for years to come.  Prospecting Skills  Burbank has little interest in trading commodities
themselves, which are subject to price distortions as
speculators move in and out of markets. Instead, he wants to
make a 10-fold return on his investments by purchasing equity in
undervalued companies such as oil tanker operators that are
poised to grow as long as demand for raw materials steadily
rises.  That often involves unearthing small firms that discover
mother lodes of highly sought resources, ranging from potash in
Kazakhstan to coking coal in Mozambique.  Passport’s investors have profited from Burbank’s
prospecting skills. The Global Strategy fund has delivered an
annualized 23.6 percent net return since its inception in August
2000, according to data obtained from Passport investors. The
HFRX Global Hedge Fund Index gained 4.3 percent in that span,
and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.6 percent.  Burbank is racing to beat multinational companies in
Australia, China and India that are hunting for new sources of
ore, metals and minerals. Passport reaps big dividends when
these large players purchase the output of one of the hedge
fund’s companies or, even better, the entire enterprise itself.  138 Percent Return  In 2007, Passport started buying shares in  Riversdale
Mining Ltd. (RIV) , an Australian firm developing deposits in
Mozambique of coking coal to be used in making steel. Last year,
Riversdale was Passport’s No. 1 holding, even though it had yet
to mine any coal from the find in Mozambique and lost $799
million.  Burbank’s gamble paid off when Melbourne-based  Rio Tinto
Ltd. (RIO)  made a $3.4 billion bid for Riversdale on Dec. 6 and later
increased it to $4 billion. Riversdale shares soared 138 percent
in 2010 and helped lift Global Strategy to an 18.2 percent
performance after fees. Passport sold most of its shares to Rio
Tinto in the first quarter. In early May, Rio Tinto held 73
percent of Riversdale and planned to delist the company.  Burbank, a somewhat rumpled man who shuns neckties and
suits in favor of fleece vests and chinos, has long contended
our era will be defined by the acute shortage of resources and
the decline of debt-strapped economies in the U.S. and  Europe .  Underestimated Damage  “I believe the West is bankrupt and failing and it’s just a
question of when,” he intoned in his baritone voice to more than
1,700 attendees at the SkyBridge Alternatives Conference for
hedge-fund investors in Las Vegas on May 12.  Burbank’s investment record and outspokenness have won him
respect from peers who see him emerging as an elite name in
 hedge funds .  “He’s an original thinker, and he’s got guts,” says Kyle Bass, founder of Hayman Capital Management LP in Dallas, who was
at the conference.  Even so, Passport investors have been whipsawed at times
during the past decade. In 2008, Burbank almost lost his firm
after he underestimated how much damage the global credit crunch
would inflict on emerging-market stocks. Confident his long-term
bullishness on commodities producers would be rewarded, he added
shares of raw materials companies even as investors exited such
positions in August and September.  Hybrid Approach  “Had we been even more imaginative about the economic
crisis that the financial crisis would beget, we would have sold
more broadly,” Burbank wrote to his clients in February 2009.
“We were too eager to buy companies at levels we thought were
attractive.” His fund plunged 51 percent in 2008, more than
twice as bad as the HFRX Index’s 23 percent swoon.  “Most funds down that much don’t survive,” says Don Steinbrugge, a managing partner at Agecroft Partners LLC, a
Richmond, Virginia-based consulting firm that advises investors
in hedge funds. “Passport does take very big bets, and when you
invest with them you have to understand that their performance
is going to be volatile.”  Passport, which has $4.6 billion in total assets under
management, follows a hybrid approach that weds Burbank’s
macroeconomic analysis with old-fashioned, value-driven stock
picking. While the firm invests in an array of industries and
markets --  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and brewer  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  have
been top 10 holdings in the six months ended on May 9 -- more
than 40 percent of Global Strategy’s exposure was in commodities
producers and energy as of March 31.  “Never Happened Before”  Passport dispatches its 41 managers and analysts around the
world for weeks at a time to size up investments. Burbank
himself led a team to Mongolia in March to scrutinize
opportunities in the resource-rich country. Passport’s trading
floor, located in a loftlike space near  San Francisco ’s
Chinatown district, resembles a high school science lab. Lumps
of coal, nickel and other metals and minerals are strewn on
desks, and posters depicting the geology of Africa and Australia
are tacked to the walls.  By analyzing supply and demand data for raw materials,
Passport tries to anticipate which natural resources will
experience price swings once considered unthinkable, from oil
going to $140 per barrel in 2008 to the sky-high prices this
year for coking coal.  “We’re looking for things that have never happened before,”
Burbank says. “That’s my strategy for producing high compounded
returns. You’d rather have something that goes up 10 times than
just doubles.”  Enormous Risk  Burbank’s strategy faces a crucial test this year. After
pouring capital into China,  Brazil  and other developing
economies in 2009 and 2010, investors reversed course this year
and pulled more than $7.7 billion from emerging-market equity
funds through June 7, according to Emerging Portfolio Fund
Research Inc. in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  Prices of food, energy and other consumer goods jumped 5.4
percent in China in March, exceeding Beijing’s full-year target
for the third consecutive month. Central bankers there and in
India are ratcheting up  interest rates  to curb inflation, which
may dampen economic growth in two of the world’s biggest buyers
of natural resources.  If the Bank of China revalues the renminbi to fight
inflation as well, the  commodities markets  could suffer a major
correction and hurt investors holding large illiquid positions
in raw materials producers.  “There is enormous risk in that posture,” says Peter Rup,
chief investment officer of New York-based Artemis Wealth
Advisors LLC. “I have taken all of my clients out of China,
India and Brazil.”  Fleeing Commodities  Passport’s Global Strategy fund is up a net 0.8 percent
this year through April 30 compared with a 9 percent return by
the  S&P 500 , according to a report sent to investors.
Burbank says the end of the  Federal Reserve ’s program for
purchasing $600 billion in Treasuries, known as quantitative
easing, or QE2, could spur more investors to flee commodities-
related securities this year. The fund manager says the program,
which expires on June 30, weakened the dollar and prompted
investors to pile into commodities to hedge greenback-linked
inflation.  Nouriel Roubini, the chairman of Roubini Global Economics who
gained fame by predicting the global credit crisis, disagrees
with Burbank’s analysis. Roubini says near-zero interest rates
in the U.S. will continue to undermine the dollar and spur
investors to buy commodities and other hedges.  “I don’t think the end of QE2 is going to have a major
impact on the financial markets,” Roubini says.  Liquidity Shock  Since May, Burbank has been trimming and hedging his raw
materials-linked holdings, allocating 10 to 20 percent of Global
Strategy’s net asset value to cash, according to Passport
investors. “You don’t want to be overinvested in commodities
during a liquidity shock,” Burbank says. He plans to swoop in
and buy his favorite stocks at distressed prices once the market
bottoms out.  “John’s an outlier,” says Jamie Knall, a managing director
at Stifel, Nicolaus & Co. in Indianapolis, a money management
firm that has invested $100 million with Passport on behalf of
wealthy clients. “When his own fundamental analysis is telling
him one thing but the mainstream is saying another, that’s when
he sniffs an opportunity.”  Burbank grew up in New Haven, Connecticut, surrounded by
books. His father, John, is a retired Russian and Slavic
literature scholar who translated Pushkin and taught at Shady
Side Academy in Pittsburgh and other prestigious private
secondary schools. Burbank studied English literature at Duke
University in North Carolina and worked his way through college
by running a house-painting business during the summers.  Backpacking Through Africa  After graduating in 1987, he set off for Ningbo, a port
city south of  Shanghai . China’s statist economy was just
beginning to open to capitalism, and Burbank was in awe of the
country’s scale and potential. “It put in context how much I
didn’t know about the world,” Burbank says.  He flirted with film school before seeking an MBA at
Stanford University near Palo Alto. There, he met Jim Cunningham, an American born in Mexico City who’d already earned
degrees in economics and food research. Following Burbank’s
graduation in 1992, the two friends spent the summer backpacking
through Egypt, Kenya and Tanzania. Back in San Francisco,
Burbank took a job in 1996 as research director at a tiny hedge
fund called ValueVest Management LLC that concentrated on
emerging markets. His pay: $1,000 a month.  First Big Score  Burbank found it strange to be combing the developing world
for undervalued industrial stocks when all around him the dot-
com boom was minting unprecedented wealth. In 1998, he came up
with his own tech trade: Softbank Corp., a Tokyo-based
investment firm that held stakes in Yahoo! Inc. and its Japanese
unit and other Internet companies.  He calculated that Softbank was valued at the same level as
its equity in Yahoo and U.S. website provider GeoCities, which
meant its stock was trading at a deep discount just as the
Internet frenzy was hitting  Japan .  While ValueVest chose not to put on the trade, Burbank told
everyone he knew to pile into Softbank shares. He invested
$5,000, all the cash he had, in November 1998. During the next
15 months, his stake multiplied more than 30 times as Softbank’s
stock skyrocketed, according to Bloomberg data.  That was Burbank’s first big score, and it taught him that
markets can utterly fail to efficiently price assets poised to
make a historic move. The key, as Burbank puts it, is to discern
when a market’s “structural reality” is about to shift and then
find undervalued equities to ride the move.  “Aha Moment”  With that strategy in mind, Burbank set up Passport in a
one-room office in a San Francisco high-rise in early 2000. He
had $800,000 in capital and one analyst, a chatty former
ValueVest intern named Walther Lovato. Burbank concentrated on
an industry that had been moribund for 14 years: energy. With
the exception of a spike after  Iraq  invaded Kuwait in 1990, West
Texas crude had languished at an average $21.22 a barrel from
1983 to 2000.  Burbank figured that if demand were to suddenly jump, oil-
related equities had nowhere to go but up, especially because
the global industry had slowed the addition of new refineries or
major fields in that period.  “Just because there is a higher price, they can’t easily
produce more,” Burbank says. “Understanding the real nature of
this led me to the aha moment.”  By the second quarter of 2002, Burbank and Lovato, 44, had
converted that view into investments in oil tanker stocks.
Plagued by the fixed costs of operating massive vessels, tanker
companies were ignored by most investors, Lovato says.  “Absolute Killing”  He found some trading at only a third of the liquidation
value of their ships. Yet he and Burbank bet that tanker stocks
would rise if refiners were forced to order more supply from the
Middle Eastern oil fields to meet an uptick in demand; shutting
down a plant wasn’t an option.  “You can make an absolute killing because your customer
needs what you have and will pay any price for it,” Lovato says.  In 2003, China’s increased thirst for oil and the U.S.
invasion of Iraq spurred a bull market for crude. Rates for
tankers spiked to $250,000 a day in 2004 from as low as $7,000 a
day in 2002. Shares of Bermuda-based Frontline Ltd., a tanker
operator that Passport had invested in, quadrupled in value from
Jan. 1, 2002, to Dec. 31, 2004. The tanker trade helped the
Global Strategy fund gain 59 percent cumulatively in 2003 and
2004.  Weak Link  Burbank’s old traveling companion Cunningham quit a job
managing money at Renberg Capital Management Inc. in Beverly
Hills,  California , and joined Passport in 2003 to oversee its
metals investing and set up an agriculture strategy.  The two friends believed that growth in China and India
would stimulate demand for copper, iron ore and other metals to
build  power plants , airports and highways. Many positions in
basic materials were in relatively illiquid private and public
companies that would be hard to sell if the commodities markets
took a hit.  In November 2005, Burbank put a hedge in place to cushion
such a blow. Mortgage debt in the U.S. had ballooned about
eightfold to $1.4 trillion in 2005 from $181 billion in 1995,
according to the Federal Reserve. If a global credit crunch
struck, Burbank was sure investors would cease buying subprime
mortgages, bringing America’s housing party to an abrupt end.  “This huge liquidity coming into the U.S. would be
curtailed, and it would show up in the weak link in U.S.
financials, which was mortgages,” he says.  $370 Million Payday  To profit from that possibility, Burbank invested in a
funky instrument known as a subprime-mortgage credit-default
swap -- a CDS that insured the holder against a loss in a pool
of high-risk mortgage bonds. The trade was cheap: Passport paid
only a one to two percentage point annual premium on the
notional amount of the bonds in 2005 and 2006, which it was
entitled to collect should the debt holders default.  In 2007, Passport’s swaps paid off when foreclosures on
subprime mortgages soared. And its long positions in raw
materials producers delivered too, as China’s insatiable demand
drove up commodities prices. Burbank personally pocketed $370
million that year.  Emboldened, Burbank dug even deeper into the obscure
precincts of the commodities markets. He and Cunningham focused
on coking coal, which steelmakers use to smelt iron ore in blast
furnaces. Global steel production had increased more than 50
percent from 2002 to 2007 even as fresh reserves of coking coal,
which is less abundant than the thermal variety used to fire
power plants, failed to keep pace.  World-Class Find  Cunningham, 48, was searching for a way to take advantage
of that imbalance when he met Michael O’Keeffe, Riversdale’s
chief executive officer, at a mining conference in Cape Town in
February 2007. Busting out his roadshow Power-Point
presentation, O’Keeffe showed Cunningham and Passport geologist
Neil Adshead how drilling results indicated that a site in
Mozambique might be a world-class find.  Cunningham was impressed that O’Keeffe had given up a plum
job as managing director of the Australian unit of Glencore
International AG, the Swiss commodities trading giant, to join
Riversdale.  “It was important that this astute operator took this kind
of personal risk,” Cunningham says. “That was a positive for
me.” Glencore raised $10 billion in an initial public offering
on May 19.  Passport bought a small number of Riversdale shares on the
Australian Securities Exchange. Then, in February 2008,
Cunningham and Adshead journeyed to the highlands of western
Mozambique and inspected Riversdale’s Benga project by
helicopter and by foot.  Considerable Risks  Cunningham saw coal come out of the ground when workers
drilled wells and dug holes for latrines at a mining camp, and
seams of the black rock were visible throughout the area.
Riversdale says its Mozambique projects possess 13 billion tons
of coal reserves, much of it the highly sought coking variety.  Cunningham returned to San Francisco bearing a piece of
Benga coal for Burbank and told him that the mine had huge
potential and considerable risks. Riversdale had to secure
numerous operating rights and permits from the Mozambique
government and build railroad lines and port facilities to
export the coal.  Even so, by December 2010 Passport was Riversdale’s No. 2
investor, with a 16 percent stake worth more than $535 million,
according to Bloomberg data. Burbank, Cunningham and O’Keeffe
sealed their deal by buying a racehorse together.  “Take the Volatility”  “Not many managers are willing to run a fund with that kind
of exposure on a single name, but if they’ve got the geology
right the value will be recognized,” says Paolo Alimonti, co-
founder and managing director of Adair Capital LLC, a New York-
based fund-of-funds firm and longtime Passport investor.  “Would I rather have them concentrate on the best idea,
which was Riversdale, or go around the world and buy a basket of
coal miners? I’d rather take the volatility.”  Even as Passport was amassing its position in Riversdale,
raw materials producers were sucked into the panic that engulfed
global financial markets in September 2008. In the fourth
quarter that year, Riversdale shares plunged 71 percent to
A$1.78 from their 12-month high. “We were all sweating, but John
stuck with us,” O’Keeffe says.  Compounding the damage, Burbank had shorted the stocks of
U.S. banks in the third quarter. On Oct. 3, the U.S. Congress
passed the $700 billion bailout to save the financial industry,
and banking shares arrested their slide and staged a short-lived
rally. Passport covered its shorts by Nov. 1 at steep losses;
Global Strategy plummeted 38 percent in October alone.  “Gone to Zero”  Burbank could only watch with regret as banks sank to 12-
year lows over the next five months and rewarded bears who’d
maintained their short positions.  Burbank is still irked that the government’s rescue
undermined his trade. “There should have been major penalties
for those who were wrong,” Burbank says. “Equity holders should
have gone to zero, but they didn’t.”  In January 2009, Passport unveiled a risk management system
designed to protect Global Strategy from market shocks. Every
morning, Chief Risk Officer Tim Garry sends an e-mail to Burbank
and his team reporting about the peril that each investment
contributes to the fund. He also executes stress tests to see
how the portfolio would fare in a crash like the one in
September and October 2008.  Sell-Off in Gold  Garry, a quant who managed money at Boston-based  State
Street Corp. (STT)  from 2005 to 2007, also runs simulations to measure
the impact of a global equities market sell-off and a
commodities bust. And Global Strategy, which aims to commit no
more than 25 percent of its assets to thinly traded stocks,
hasn’t made investments in closely held companies since
September 2008.  Burbank’s $500 million Special Opportunities fund remains
unfettered by the new risk controls. In 2010, it produced a 73
percent net return, according to a performance report obtained
from Passport investors.  This year, in the run-up to the expiration of QE2 and a
possible correction in the commodities markets, Burbank has been
more cautious. Wary of a sell-off in gold, Burbank in January
liquidated his position in the metal, which had amounted to 7
percent of Global Strategy in December, according to investment
reports. Gold hit an all-time high of $1,577. 57 on May 2, an 18
percent gain since Jan. 31.  Burbank’s big idea this year is Saudi Arabia. Mindful that
the world’s No. 1 oil producer might put its massive cash
surpluses to work domestically, Burbank and his team started
visiting the country and meeting with officials and local
investors in 2007.  Opening to Foreigners  He’s betting that the Saudi ruling class will invest its
petrowealth inside the kingdom with more wisdom than government
leaders and investors did in neighboring Dubai and Abu Dhabi,
where runaway real-estate markets crashed in 2008 and 2009.  “Saudi is not Dubai,” Burbank says.  As the Saudi monarchy pursues a massive infrastructure
program, Burbank sees the country opening to foreign investors
in much the same way that other emerging markets such as India
did over the past decade. Less than 1 percent of equities traded
on the Saudi Arabian Stock Exchange are controlled by outsiders.
This year, King Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz has directed more than
$80 billion to be spent on home building, and his advisers
approved changes to mortgage laws to permit private investment
in housing loans.  Hypervolatile Market  Burbank says the regional outcry for greater economic
opportunities is likely to drive Saudi Arabia to spend even more
domestically. While the U.S. government’s killing of Osama bin Laden may prompt followers to strike at targets in the Gulf
state and spur  oil prices  higher, his death will have little
long-term impact on the politics or economy in Saudi Arabi,
Burbank says. If more capital flows into the country, valuations
of Saudi equities should rise. “It’s a fantastic, idiosyncratic
risk,” Burbank says.  While Adair Capital’s Alimonti endorses Burbank’s strategy,
the longtime Passport investor does see peril should street
protests erupt again in Bahrain. The island nation’s Shia
majority has long chafed at the Sunni monarchy’s rule, and
Alimonti worries the conflict could become a flash point between
Sunni-dominated Saudi Arabia and its regional rival, Shiite-
controlled Iran, which lies across the Persian Gulf.  “Does Iran do something? That’s the real risk here,”
Alimonti says.  So far, Burbank has demonstrated a deft touch in wringing
profits out of trades that other investors might overlook or
avoid. He believes that if he and his team dig deeply enough
into arcane markets such as Saudi Arabia or coking coal, the
rewards can prove well worth the risks.  As Passport’s near-death experience in 2008 shows, today’s
hypervolatile global market can upset the most thorough analysis
and turn worthy bets into serious losses in a matter of weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Robinson in San Francisco at 
 edrobinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby in New York at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net  