-- 
Caine, Connery Mimicry Sparks ‘The Trip’; Elephant Tale: Movies

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-06-08T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/caine-connery-mimicry-sparks-the-trip-elephant-tale-movies.html
I’ll never be able to watch  Michael Caine  again without thinking of “ The Trip ,” a mockumentary in
which British comedians Steve Coogan and Rob Brydon do
sidesplitting imitations of various movie legends.  Their mimicry is the highlight of this largely improvised
road picture about two bickering buddies (Coogan and Brydon play
slightly exaggerated versions of themselves) touring  England ’s
scenic Lake District and Yorkshire Dales.  Playboy Steve has a newspaper assignment to write about the
area’s finer inns and restaurants, and he invites married Rob
along after being turned down by his American girlfriend.  “The Trip” basically consists of the pair driving from
place to place and eating gourmet meals while riffing about
everything from receding gums and the Oscars to Wordsworth and
Coleridge, who both lived in the Lake District.  The film, directed by Michael Winterbottom, is an
adaptation of a six-part BBC television series. Winterbottom
previously directed Coogan and Brydon in “Tristram Shandy: A
Cock and Bull Story” and “24 Hour Party People,” and their
rapport help gives the movie its casual, off-the-cuff appeal.  While it’s mostly a comedy, “The Trip” has several
touching scenes, including a visit to Steve’s elderly parents in
Manchester and a phone conversation between Steve and his son
from a now-defunct marriage.  But what you’ll remember most are the imitations,
especially Brydon’s  Al Pacino  and their dueling versions of
Caine,  Sean Connery  and  Woody Allen .  “Whaddayagot?” Brydon asks in his manic Pacino sendup.  In this case, a comedy classic.  “The Trip,” from  IFC Films , opens Friday in New York and
 Los Angeles . Rating: ***1/2  ‘One Lucky Elephant’  As a circus elephant, Flora delighted audiences by using
her trunk to pack a suitcase. But when her owner decided to
retire her from performing, finding her another place to live
proved even trickier.  Circus producer David Balding’s search for Flora’s new home
and his heart-wrenching separation from the orphaned African
pachyderm he nurtured for 16 years is the subject of the
stirring documentary “ One Lucky Elephant .”  Filmed over 10 years, the movie follows Balding as he tries
to find a suitable habitat for Flora where she can mingle with
other elephants. After a temporary stay at Miami Metro Zoo, she
ends up at  The Elephant Sanctuary  in Hohenwald,  Tennessee .  10,000-Pound ‘Daughter’  Flora displays aggressive behavior at the sanctuary, which
co-founder Carol Buckley attributes to post-traumatic stress
disorder resulting from the animal’s separation from her mother
as a youngster.  She thinks Balding’s occasional visits from his Missouri
farm are interfering with Flora’s recovery, so she bars him from
seeing her. This leads to a series of phone calls in which
Balding practically begs to see his beloved 10,000-pound
“daughter.”  Filmmakers Lisa Leeman and Cristina Colissimo don’t try to
turn the story into a good versus evil saga. They realize that
both Balding and Buckley have Flora’s best interests at heart.
They just have different opinions on how to make her happy.  The film is really a love story between a man and an
elephant, one that has more genuine emotion than most Hollywood-
manufactured romances.  “One Lucky Elephant,” from Film Forum, opens today in  New
York  and June 24 in Los Angeles. Rating: ***  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 