-- 
Canada’s Securities Agency Investigating ‘Matters Related’ to Sino-Forest

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-06-08T20:18:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/canada-s-securities-agency-investigating-matters-related-to-sino-forest.html
The Ontario Securities Commission,
Canada’s main stock market regulator, is investigating “matters
related” to  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , whose shares have plunged 73
percent since a short seller said it overstated timberland
production.  “The OSC confirms that we are investigating matters
related to Sino-Forest,” Wendy Dey, a spokeswoman for the
Toronto-based regulator, said today in an e-mailed response to
questions. Carolyn Shaw-Rimmington, another spokeswoman,
declined to elaborate. Sino-Forest said in a statement it
welcomed the inquiry and said it’s in keeping with the OSC’s
responsibility as the public regulator and reflects the unusual
trading in its shares.  Muddy Waters Research, a firm founded by short seller
Carson Block, said in a report published June 2 that the
forestry company’s disclosures of land holdings don’t match
Chinese city records. Block, who stands to make money from
declines in Sino-Forest stock, said June 6 he will keep betting
against the shares until they reach “zero.”  “The company believes Muddy Waters’ report to be
inaccurate, spurious and defamatory,” Sino-Forest said in a
June 6 statement.  Horsley didn’t immediately return a call to his mobile
phone seeking comment. Louisa Wong, a company spokeswoman in
Hong Kong, didn’t immediately return an e-mail message outside
of regular office hours.  Investigation Confirmed  Sino-Forest also said in its statement today it asked the
Toronto Stock Exchange and the Investment Industry Regulatory
Organization of Canada to probe trading in Sino-Forest’s shares
by Muddy Waters, Block and any associates who may have learned
of the report before it was published.  Regulators and investors have increased scrutiny of Chinese
companies trading in North America. The U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission began an investigation last year into the
use of reverse takeovers, in which a closely held company buys a
shell company whose shares already trade.  Sino-Forest rose 87 cents, or 21 percent, to C$4.92 at 4:15
p.m. in Toronto Stock Exchange trading.  Muddy Waters Research “pre-marketed” its report to hedge
funds for the past five weeks, Richard Kelertas, a Montreal-
based analyst at Dundee Securities Ltd., said yesterday on a
conference call. Block declined to comment on Kelertas’s
comments when contacted by e-mail.  Not Illegal  Dundee was among institutions that helped Sino-Forest sell
shares in December 2009 and in May 2009.  Offering a report to hedge funds before making it public
isn’t illegal, said  James Fanto , who teaches classes on
international financial regulation and securities laws at
Brooklyn Law School in New York.  “Muddy Waters can profit from this information itself, or
allow others to profit from their insights as well,” Fanto said
in an e-mail message yesterday. “The only problems emerge when
research is in fact based on insider tips. But that doesn’t seem
to be the case here.”  Muddy Waters will release more research about Sino-Forest,
Block said in a June 6 conference call. The research firm will
address Sino-Forest’s 2010 purchase of engineered-wood products
maker Homix Ltd. and its 64 percent stake in Greenheart Group
Ltd., a lumber producer, Block said.  Greenheart today fell 63 percent to HK$1.03, the most on
record, after resuming trading in Hong Kong following Muddy
Waters’ report.  Operations ‘Independent’  “Greenheart’s major operations are independent of our
parent company and we are not subject to the allegations,”
David Wu, director of corporate development and investor
relations at Greenheart, said today by telephone.  Sino-Forest has been “thoroughly scrutinized” by major
international underwriters and law firms inside and outside of
China in the course of seven public and private offerings over
the past five years, the company said on June 6. It’s planning
an analyst tour of its operations in China in July, Sino-Forest
said. The company said the same day it appointed
PricewaterhouseCoopers to assist with an investigation of
Block’s report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 