-- 
Cancan Dancers, Deities Cavort in Paris ‘Ring’ Finale: Review

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-06-08T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/cancan-dancers-deities-cavort-in-paris-ring-finale-review.html
Are we watching a mob shootout? A
video shows an unseen gunman popping off gods one by one.  It’s the finale of “Gotterdammerung” and of the first
“Ring” cycle at the  Paris Opera  in more than half a century.
The production has strong points. Coherence isn’t one of them.  At the beginning of the cycle, director Gunter Kramer and
set designer Jurgen Backmann sought to draw a parallel between
the ups and downs of the gods and the history of  Germany , which
was united while Wagner was working on his tetralogy.  In “Das Rheingold,” the inscription GERMANIA appeared on
a monumental staircase. In “Die Walkure,” a furious Wotan
knocked down three letters so that only MANIA remained, a broad
hint at Germany’s catastrophe one Reich later.  The idea might not have been original -- it inspired
Luchino Visconti’s 1969 movie “The Damned,” to cite just one
example -- yet it was useful enough to serve as a leitmotif.  In “Gotterdammerung,” the directorial team seems to have
forgotten its initial concept. The program is replete with
images of World Wars I and II. Onstage, though, we are treated
to a series of decidedly unpolitical scenes.  Siegfried’s Rhine Journey is accompanied by a ballet of
cancanning dancers in red. The palace of the Gibichungen looks
like a cafeteria gaily decorated with streamers for what might
be an office party.  Wheelchair Killer  While Waltraute describes Wotan’s despondency, her sister
Brunnhilde busily stows away the family china in a sideboard.
Hagen sits in a wheelchair, an awkward position for a killer:
Siegfried and Gunther have to practically throw themselves into
his lap so he can do his deadly work.  The low point is the lame handling of the funeral march,
one of the grandest moments in opera history crying out for a
strong visual equivalent. Instead, we have to watch yet another
video with a man climbing a ladder while Siegfried’s body on the
floor doesn’t budge.  The costumes are modern: Siegfried is clad in a dark three-
piece suit, Brunnhilde in a white evening gown. The Norns appear
in black cocktail dress with sunglasses and stiletto heels.  The musical side is more convincing.  The cast is dominated by Hans-Peter Konig’s magnificent
Hagen. Katarina Dalayman’s Brunnhilde sails through her
demanding part with assurance. The only drawback is her habit of
hurling out the top notes instead of blending them into the
melodic line.  Stylish Limits  In happier times when a heldentenor could be found behind
every tree, Torsten Kerl would have sung character roles such as
Mime. He is clearly underequipped for Siegfried yet handles his
limited resources with intelligence and style.  Iain Paterson is a gruff Gunther and Sophie Koch is a
passionate Waltraute. The weak link is Christiane Libor’s anemic
Gutrune.  Apart from a few shaky entries, probably due to first-night
nerves, the orchestra is in top form. Philippe Jordan, who
became the Paris Opera’s chief conductor last year, has overcome
his initial cautiousness and perfectly balances his forces,
never overpowering the singers.  Rating: **.  “Gotterdammerung” is in repertory at the Bastille Opera
through June 30. Information:  http://www.operadeparis.fr  or
+33-1-7125-2423.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 