-- 
Car Premiums Rise 40% as Parasitic Claims Fleece U.K. Grandmas

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-06-08T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/car-premiums-rise-40-as-parasitic-claims-fleece-u-k-grandmas.html
On a cold January evening last year,
Sandy Van Litsenborgh was driving home from work on an icy side
street in  Whitechapel , east London. Unable to pass an oncoming
motorist because the street was too narrow, she reversed to let
the car past and hit a  Vauxhall Vectra  parked behind her.  “I was doing less than 5 miles an hour,” said Van
Litsenborgh, a 54 year-old administrator at the nearby  Royal
London Hospital . “There wasn’t a scratch on my car. There was a
scratch on his car not even an inch long. It wasn’t even
dented.” She says she sought out the owner in a nearby shop and
passed on her insurance details.  Four months later, lawyers acting on behalf of the Vectra’s
owner filed a claim for damages totaling 22,000 pounds
($36,000), saying the car was severely damaged and four
passengers were suffering from whiplash injuries. Van
Litsenborgh’s insurance premium rose by 70 percent.  The U.K. system creates clear losers -- customers who this
year pay average premiums 40 percent higher than in 2010, and
car insurance companies, who’ve shelled out more than they take
in for 15 consecutive years as personal injury claims soared.
Winners include lawyers, vehicle repairers, car hire firms,
doctors and even the police, who benefit from a “merry-go-
round” of referral fees, according to a House of Commons
committee  report  in March.  “It’s a parasitic system,” said Martin Milliner, director
of claims at  Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society Ltd. , the
U.K.’s third largest car insurer. “It increases the opportunity
for fraud, malpractice and the more worrying trend of where that
fraud money goes,” including organized crime.  Higher Costs  U.K. motor insurers paid 10.8 billion pounds in claims in
2009, the latest year for which figures are available, according
to the  Association of British Insurers , the industry lobby
group. As claims rose 20 percent from 2005, the number of
accidents involving injuries dropped by 18 percent to about
164,000 in the same period.  Higher costs have forced insurers to raise prices. Britons
now pay about 900 pounds a year for comprehensive cover,
according to the  Automobile Association Ltd. ’s Shoparound Index,
which tracks the cheapest quotes offered by insurers. Even so,
insurers haven’t made an underwriting profit from motor policies
since 1996.  The British government says the country risks creating a
“compensation culture” and has pledged  changes  to “prevent
expensive and unnecessary litigation” which result in greater
payments to lawyers than to claimants.  Claim Rejected  “Motor insurance fraud is no respecter of age or social
status,” said Malcolm Tarling, a spokesman for the ABI. “It
happens across the board. The impact is felt by all motorists
because the costs are spread over everyone’s premiums.”  Van Litsenborgh, a grandmother who came to the U.K. from
 South Africa  almost 12 years ago, immediately told her insurer,
 Hastings  Insurance Services Ltd., that she and her passenger had
not seen anyone in the Vectra and that there was minimal damage
from the accident. Hastings agreed and rejected the claim.  “We denied their claims but they carried on pursuing,”
said Martin Batchelor, claims director at Hastings. Personal
injury lawyers representing the owner of the Vectra “kept
coming back” for about a year, Batchelor said. “They basically
just denied our position, which is a tactic used to make us
settle and get rid of the claim.”  This month, after being contacted by Bloomberg News,
Hastings called the claimant’s lawyers and was told they now
have “no further instructions” from their client to pursue the
claim, Batchelor said. U.K. claimants have up to three years to
seek compensation following an accident, he said, so the case is
not necessarily closed. No allegation of fraud has been made in
this case, which is still unresolved.  Complex System  A man describing himself as the Vectra’s owner said Van
Litsenborgh and Hastings’s claims were false when contacted by
Bloomberg News on June 6. He refused to elaborate and declined
to give his version of events, beyond saying four people had
been injured.  “I wouldn’t say we hear stories like that every day but we
know it goes on,” said Andy Goldby, director of motor pricing
and underwriting at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ’s insurance
unit, the U.K.’s biggest motor insurer. “We’ve had claims for
minibuses when they say there’s more people injured than what
the bus can actually hold.”  Fraud is only one of the reasons why premiums are rising.
The House of Commons Transport Committee report criticized a
complex system of referral fees that inflates the cost of
genuine accidents, encourages more people to claim for personal
injuries and makes fraud easier.  ‘Valuable Property’  When a customer has an accident that’s not their fault,
they become “extremely valuable property,” Nick Starling,
director of general insurance at the ABI said in November.  The customer’s own insurer, mechanic or rescue truck driver
can earn referral fees of up to 800 pounds for selling the
victim’s contact details on to personal injury lawyers or claims
management companies, according to the  Legal Services Consumer
Panel , which represents customers’ interests. Lawyers and claims
management firms can then, in turn, earn more fees by referring
customers to a doctor or car-hire company.  Some police forces are charging fees for tipping off
wreckage clearance firms after an accident, according to  data 
obtained by insurer  Swiftcover.com , a unit of Axa SA, through
the Freedom of Information Act. West Midlands Police made 24,891
referrals in 2009 charging 25 pounds each, the data showed.  Insurance companies including RBS, which dislike referral
fees, continue to receive them because a refusal “would put us
at a competitive disadvantage to everyone else,” said Goldby.  No-Win No-Fee  According to Louise Ellman, the Labour parliamentarian
chairing the  House of Commons Transport Committee , the actions
of no-win no-fee lawyers is the biggest cause of rising costs
after fraud.  With the number of personal injury claims soaring and the
number of accidents involving injury falling, the result is that
for 2009 there were an average 4.1 personal injury claims for
every accident, according to Bloomberg calculations based on
government statistics. The average payout to a victim is 2,430
pounds with a further 2,100 being spent to pay legal costs,
according to the ABI.  That helped the motor insurance industry to a record loss
in 2009. Insurers paid out 1.19 pounds in claims for every pound
they took in premium, according to insurance broker  Towers
Watson Ltd.  Even with record premium rate rises in 2010, the
broker forecasts motor insurers to pay 1.14 pounds for every
pound of revenue.  ‘Key Issues’  The most successful U.K. insurers will be those which raise
prices and also “address the key issues of widespread detection
of fraudulent claims and controlling the steep rise in
settlement awards for bodily injury claims,” said Martyn
Street, a Fitch Ratings director in a June 6 report.  One insurer, Admiral Plc, is bucking the trend. The firm,
which insures 10 percent of British cars, is the best-performing
insurer in  Europe  over the last five years and last year paid
out 89 pence in claims for every pound it took in premiums.  Unlike rivals, the insurer gets half its profit from so-
called ancillary income, made from referral fees and selling
policy add-ons such as legal cover and windscreen insurance.
About 10 percent of its profit comes from referral fees,
according to London-based Barclays Capital analyst Andy Broadfield, in a May 31 note.  A government  proposal  to abolish personal injury lawyers’
success fees published by Justice Secretary Kenneth Clarke in
March may erode Admiral’s “competitive advantage” and benefit
its competitors, Broadfield wrote.  Efforts to clean up the system have come too late for Van
Litsenborgh, who now takes the train to work. “It’s been an
absolute nightmare,” she said. “I probably could have driven
away. But that’s not the right thing to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in  London  at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 