-- 
Carrefour Planet Unlikely to Revive French Sales, SocGen Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-06-08T09:40:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/carrefour-planet-unlikely-to-revive-french-sales-socgen-says.html
Carrefour SA (CA) ’s Planet concept is
unlikely to “revitalize” the world’s second-largest retailer’s
French superstores and could lead to a break-up of the grocer if
it fails in all markets, Societe Generale analysts wrote.  The company’s stock would be worth 22 euros a share if the
Planet concept fails in all markets, an option the analysts
consider “unlikely.” The stock, which trades at about 29.80
euros now, would be worth 64 euros a share in a sum-of-the parts
valuation applied to a potential breakup, they said.  An ageing population, stagnating growth of family shoppers
and customers putting a premium on their use of time “implies a
structural decline in hypermarket traffic at large stores,”
analysts Eloise Veillet and Tim Attenborough wrote today in a
note that reinitiated  Societe Generale ’s coverage of the
Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based retailer. “Planet does not
propose any radical solution.” The analysts expect no positive
impact from Planet in  France .  Carrefour Chief Executive Officer Lars Olofsson, who joined
the grocer in 2009 after a decade in which sales barely rose in
its biggest market of France, is pinning the company’s
turnaround on a 1.5 billion-euro ($2.2 billion) revamp of 500
superstores, or hypermarkets, in western  Europe . He’s betting
the new format, dubbed Carrefour Planet, with lower prices and
more own label products will boost sales and profit through
2015.  If customers do reject Planet in all markets “a break-up
of Carrefour would likely follow,” Veillet and Attenborough
wrote. The analysts have a “hold” rating on the stock.
Superstores account for 63 percent of Carrefour’s sales,
according to the company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  