-- 
Hogs Rise as Supplies May Drop as Demand Gains; Cattle Climb

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-06-08T19:37:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/cattle-drop-as-u-s-meatpacker-supply-may-be-ample-hogs-gain.html
Hog futures rose to a two-week high
on signs that the supply available to U.S. meatpackers is
tightening, while domestic pork demand may climb. Cattle gained.  U.S. meatpackers processed 405,000 hogs today, down 4
percent from the same time last week, Department of Agriculture
data show. Poultry farmers are reducing  flocks  because of high
feed costs, which may bolster chicken prices and make pork more
competitive, said  Rich Nelson , the director of research at
Allendale Inc. in McHenry,  Illinois .  “We may not have hit our summer low yet” in hog supplies,
which tend to decrease in June based on breeding cycles, Nelson
said. “We are getting some more helpful tones from the chicken
industry. Part of the reason we had low pork demand was because
there had been a lot of cheap chicken.”  Hog futures for July settlement rose 1.85 cents, or 2.1
percent, to close at 91.35 cents a pound on the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange. Earlier, the price touched 92.125 cents,
the highest since May 20.  In the week ended May 28, commercial hatcheries in the U.S.
reduced the number of eggs put into incubators by 2 percent from
a year earlier, the most recent USDA data show. The price of
corn, the main feed ingredient, has more than doubled in the
past year.  Cattle futures rose on speculation that U.S. meatpackers
may pay more for spot-market animals as profits increase.
Processors are earning about $68 per head of cattle this week,
up from $60 last week and losses earlier this year, Nelson said.  “Packers have good incentive to pay up for cattle,” said
Doug Houghton, an analyst at Brock Associates in  Milwaukee .
“These are the strongest margins they’ve had in a long time.”  Cattle futures for August delivery gained 0.1 cent, or 0.1
percent, to $1.0455 a pound.  Feeder-cattle futures for August settlement declined 0.325
cent, or 0.3 percent, to $1.248 a pound.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  