-- 
McDonald’s 3.1% Sales Increase for May Misses Estimates

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-06-08T20:11:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/mcdonald-s-may-sales-rise-3-1-globally-as-u-s-growth-slowest-in-a-year.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s largest
restaurant chain, said sales at stores open at least 13 months
rose 3.1 percent in May, falling short of analysts’ estimates as
U.S. consumers pulled back spending.  Analysts projected same-store sales would advance 3.6
percent, according to the median of six estimates compiled by
Bloomberg News. U.S. sales advanced 2.4 percent, the Oak Brook,
Illinois-based company said today in a statement, the slowest
monthly growth since February 2010.  Chief Executive Officer James Skinner introduced new drinks
including frozen-strawberry lemonade to lure U.S. consumers,
whose confidence unexpectedly declined to a six-month low in May
over concerns about the labor market. McDonald’s, along with
other restaurant operators, has raised prices over the past year
to help offset surging meat costs.  “Consumers are trading down within the menu,” said Peter Saleh, a restaurant analyst at Telsey Advisory Group LLC in  New
York . “They’re buying cheaper items, maybe they’re trading down
to some of the value menu items.”  McDonald’s rose 1 cent to $81.15 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has gained 5.7
percent this year.  “Generally quick-service restaurants, which includes
McDonald’s, are seeing a little bit more pressure,” said Lynne Collier, an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in Dallas who
recommends buying the shares. “There’s still uncertainty out
there, but I don’t sense in the restaurant business that the
consumer has weakened significantly.”  Europe,  Asia   Sales climbed 2.3 percent in Europe and increased 4.3
percent in Asia,  Africa  and the  Middle East . Analysts predicted
4 percent for both regions, and 2.9 percent in the U.S.  In  Europe , “strong performance” in  France ,  Russia  and the
U.K. was partially offset by  Germany , McDonald’s said.  “Germany is a market that has seen inconsistent results
recently as consumers hesitate to spend amid the Eurozone debt
crisis,” Sara Senatore, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. in New York, wrote in a research note today. She rates the
shares “outperform.”  The strengthening in foreign currencies will boost second-
quarter profit by as much as 10 cents a share, the company also
said. McDonald’s will report quarterly earnings on July 22.  The fast-food burger chain, with more than 32,000 locations
worldwide, makes about two-thirds of its revenue from outside
the U.S. An increase in foreign currencies helps boost earnings
when sales are converted in dollars.  Intercontinental Exchange Inc.’s Dollar Index has dropped
6.9 percent this year and reached 72.696 on May 4, the lowest
level since July 2008.  April comparable-store sales advanced 6 percent globally at
McDonald’s. Comparable, or same-store, sales are a key measure
of a company’s growth because they exclude the impact of store
openings and closings.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture   predicts  that meat
prices may rise as much as 7 percent in the U.S. this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 Rajello@bloomberg.net  