-- 
Cerberus Is Said to Seek at Least $4 Billion for New Private-Equity Fund

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-06-08T18:36:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/cerberus-capital-is-said-to-seek-at-least-4-billion-for-next-buyout-fund.html
Cerberus Capital Management LP is
seeking to raise about $4 billion for its next private-equity
fund, according to two people familiar with the plan.  The new pool will be smaller than its predecessor fund,
which attracted $7.5 billion from investors, said the people,
asking not to be named because the information is private. The
firm is also aiming to raise a fund dedicated to buying mortgage
assets as well as two loan funds, one of the people said.  Cerberus, based in  New York , is gathering money after the
firm recouped 90 percent of its 2007 wager on automaker Chrysler
LLC by selling its former lending unit.  Stephen Feinberg ,
Cerberus’s chief executive officer, said yesterday he sees
opportunities to buy assets from European banks in countries
including Spain, Italy and Germany.  Peter Duda , an outside spokesman for Cerberus, didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking comment.  Private-equity managers are trying to attract new
commitments after fund-raising in the first quarter fell to its
lowest level since 2003, according to researcher Preqin Ltd. KKR
& Co., the firm run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , is
raising a new pool for North American buyouts.  Buoyant public markets and cash-rich corporate acquirers
are allowing buyout firms to sell some of their existing
investments, enabling them to show profits to current clients as
they ask for more money. Cerberus may benefit from salvaging the
Chrysler investment as well as the sale of Talecris
Biotherapeutics Holding Corp. to  Grifols SA (GRF)  for $2.95 billion.  24% Gain  Cerberus’s Series 4, its most recent fund, gained 24
percent in 2010, according to a person familiar with the
performance. The fund, started in 2007, has averaged annual
returns of 12 percent before fees, said the person, who asked
not to be named because the results are private.  Firms face a tougher fund-raising environment as pensions,
endowments and sovereign-wealth funds make smaller commitments
and seek to pare the number of managers they back. New funds are
likely to be about half of their managers’ previous efforts,
said Guy Hands, founder of private-equity firm Terra Firma
Capital Partners Ltd., today at the Super Return Conference in
 Boston .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  