-- 
China Building Capability to Counter U.S. Defense of Taiwan, Panetta Says

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-06-08T00:15:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/china-building-ability-for-border-conflicts-panetta.html
CIA director Leon Panetta, who has
been nominated to succeed Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , said
 China  appears to be building the capability “to fight and win
short-duration, high-intensity conflicts” along its borders.  “Its near-term focus appears to be on preparing for
potential contingencies involving Taiwan, including possible
U.S. military intervention,” Panetta said in a 79-page set of
answers to questions from the  Senate Armed Services Committee  in
advance of his confirmation hearing, scheduled for June 9.  China’s efforts to modernize its military “emphasize anti-
access and area capabilities,” Panetta said in his written
answers. China also is modernizing its nuclear forces and
improving its space and counter-space operations as well as its
computer network operations, Panetta said.  In addition, China is expanding its missions to include
humanitarian assistance, non-combat evacuation operations, and
counter-piracy support, according to Panetta.  The U.S. should continue to “monitor closely” the growth
of China’s military capabilities while designing a strategy “to
preserve peace, enhance stability, and reduce risk in the
region,” Panetta said.  “The complexity of the security environment, both in the
Asia-Pacific region and globally, calls for a continuous
dialogue between the armed forces of the  United States  and China
to expand practical cooperation where we can and to discuss
candidly those areas where we differ,” Panetta said.  Future Conflicts  Addressing potential future conflicts around the world,
Panetta said that the Pentagon “must be prepared” to confront
potential adversaries armed with air defense systems, long-range
ballistic missiles, and anti-ship cruise missiles.  “Given the importance of power projection for U.S.
operations, naval and air assets will undoubtedly play a key
role in these future military engagements,” Panetta said.  Ground forces will have to be able to protect against
possible adversaries with precision-guided anti-tank weapons,
man-portable air defense systems, and precision-guided rockets,
artillery and mortars, he said.  Senator  Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who leads the
Armed Services Committee, and Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona ,
the top Republican on the panel, said in separate interviews
that Panetta’s path to Senate confirmation should be smooth.  “I expect him to do a good job and I am sure he will,”
McCain said, adding that he also expected Panetta to find
savings in the  defense budget  “wherever he can.”  Gates met June 3 with his Chinese counterpart, Defense
Minister Liang Guanglie, at the annual  IISS Asia Security Summit 
and told him that the two countries should seek to improve
military relations that lag behind their economic ties.  China “never intends to threaten any nation,” Liang told
regional officials attending the forum. China’s improved
military capabilities fall “within the legitimate need of its
self defense” he said.  China considers  Taiwan  a renegade province and has objected
to arms sales under U.S. security commitments to the island.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  