-- 
China Swaps Rise Most in 2 Months on Bets for Policy Tightening

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-08T09:33:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/china-swaps-rise-most-in-2-months-on-bets-for-policy-tightening.html
China ’s interest-rate swaps climbed
the most in more than two months on speculation the central bank
will raise borrowing costs or increase the amount of cash banks
must set aside as reserves to temper inflation.  A government report on June 14 may show consumer prices
rose 5.5 percent in May from a year earlier, the fastest pace
since July 2008, according to the median estimate of economists
in a Bloomberg News survey.  Liu Mingkang , chairman of the China
Banking Regulatory Commission, said yesterday countries may be
forced to raise  interest rates  if asset bubbles and inflation
continue to grow, even as the global economy slows, the Study
Times reported yesterday.  “Financial institutions are expecting more tightening
measures, either interest-rate increases or reserve-ratio hikes
in the near term,” said Chen Qiwei, a senior bond trader at
Shenzhen Development Bank Co. in  Shanghai .  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, climbed seven
basis points to 3.50 percent as of 5:18 p.m. in Shanghai, the
biggest increase since March 30, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  China has raised interest rates twice this year and ordered
banks to set aside more cash as reserves five times. The
People’s Bank of China sold 100 billion yuan ($15.4 billion) of
28-day  repurchase agreements  yesterday, the largest amount since
April 12, and issued 2 billion yuan of one-year bills.  ‘Tightening Action’  The seven-day repurchase rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, jumped 59 basis points, or 0.59 percentage
point, to 3.82 percent, according to a weighted average rate
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. It touched 4
percent earlier, the highest level this month.  China’s  finance ministry  sold 30 billion yuan of five-year
bonds today at an average yield of 3.44 percent, according to
traders at underwriters of government debt. The average yield
compared with the 3.40 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey yesterday and with the 3.41 percent in the last
auction of similar-maturity debt on April 13.  The issuance drew bids for 1.36 times the amount on offer
in the initial round, according to the traders. The so-called
bid-to-cover ratio was 2.21 on April 13.  “Demand is so low because investors are speculating that
inflation accelerated in May, which will lead to more tightening
action,” said Guo Caomin, a bond analyst at Industrial Bank Co.
in Shanghai. “The yields in the primary market may continue to
rise as investors turn cautious.”  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Simon Harvey, Ven Ram  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3043 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 