-- 
Top Cholesterol Pill Gets Restrictions Over Muscle Injury

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-06-08T21:59:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/cholesterol-drug-s-highest-dose-should-be-limited-fda-says.html
Merck & Co.’s Zocor cholesterol pill
and its generic equivalents will carry new U.S. warnings about
the risk of muscle injury with the highest approved dose.  The  Food and Drug Administration  revised the prescribing
information of Zocor, chemically known as simvastatin, to say
the 80-milligram dose of the medicine shouldn’t be used with
certain other drugs or started in new patients, the agency said
today in a statement. Merck’s Vytorin and  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ’
Simcor, which contain simvastatin, will also add warnings.  Simvastatin was the  second-most  popular drug in the U.S.
last year with 94 million prescriptions, about 12 percent of
which were for the strongest dose, according to IMS Health Inc.
The FDA has been reviewing the safety of that dosage since March
2010 after a seven-year  study  of about 12,000 patients.  “The risk of muscle injury is highest during the first
year of treatment with the 80-milligram dose of simvastatin, is
often the result of interactions with certain other medicines,
and is frequently associated with a genetic predisposition for
simvastatin-related muscle injury,” the FDA statement said.  Patients who have been on the highest dose more than a year
without evidence of muscle injury should continue treatment, the
FDA said. Patients who aren’t helped by lower amounts or who are
taking drugs that may increase the risks should be given another
cholesterol medicine, the agency said.  Limited Effect  “Many people who take simvastatin will not be affected by
these label updates,” said Michael Rosenblatt, chief medical
officer for  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based Merck, in a
separate statement. “Patients should talk with their doctor
before they stop taking any of their medicines.”  Americans spent $54 million on the highest dose of
simvastatin last year, according to data from IMS Health, a
Norwalk, Connecticut-based analyst of drug marketing data. The
drug also is available in doses of 5, 10, 20 and 40 milligrams.  The painkiller combination of hydrocodone and
acetaminophen, sold by  Abbott Park , Illinois-based Abbott as
Vicodin, was the most-dispensed prescription drug last year.  Merck gained 22 cents to $35.79 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The company’s shares gained 5.9
percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Larkin in  Washington  at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 