-- 
Christie, Sweeney Reach Pensions Agreement

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-06-08T18:14:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/christie-sweeney-reach-pensions-agreement.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
and Senate President  Stephen Sweeney  reached agreement on an
overhaul of state pensions and benefits, according to two people
with knowledge of the accord.  Christie, a first-term Republican, and Sweeney, a West
Deptford Democrat, will announce the agreement at a press
conference in Trenton later today, said the people, who declined
to be identified because they weren’t authorized to speak
publicly about the deal.  The governor has been urging the Democratic-led Legislature
since September to pass measures designed to reduce a $53.9
billion deficit in New Jersey’s pension system. His agreement
with Sweeney is projected to save state and local governments
$122 billion over the next 30 years in pension costs alone,
according to a memo provided by a person familiar with the
accord. Health-care savings weren’t detailed.  “It’s definitely positive given how the rhetoric has been
so adversarial,” said Dan Solender, who oversees $14 billion as
head of municipal bonds at Lord Abbett & Co. in  Jersey City .
“The more years the funding is deferred, the bigger the issue
becomes.”  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie, declined to
comment in an e-mail. Derek Roseman, a spokesman for Sweeney,
and  Tom Hester , a spokesman for Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver,
declined to comment on the agreement, which needs approval from
both legislative houses.  Skipped Payments  New Jersey’s pension system, providing benefits to almost
800,000 current and former workers, has a deficit that grew 18
percent in a year from $45.8 billion as of June 2009 as the
state failed to make contributions. Nationwide, states are
grappling with pension-funding gaps of as much as $479.5
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Christie skipped a $3 billion pension payment last year,
saying he wouldn’t put more money into a “broken” system. The
governor will make a $759 million payment as soon as lawmakers
approve his overhaul plan, Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff
said in May.  The pension underfunding and rising health-care costs were
cited as concerns by Moody’s Investors Service in April when the
credit-rating firm downgraded the state’s debt one step to Aa3,
the fourth-highest level.  Pension Contributions  The agreement between Christie and Sweeney aims for 80
percent funding of the pension system within 30 years, up from
the current 62 percent, the people said. State and local
government employees and teachers would face an immediate
increase in pension contributions to 6.5 percent from 5.5
percent, and another increase to 7.5 percent phased in over
seven years, they said.  U.S. public pension funds have 76.1 percent of the assets
needed to meet their retirement payments, according to a survey
of 215 plans released today by their trade association. The
funds surveyed, which have $900 billion of assets and cover 7.6
million workers, are making changes “to ensure their long-term
sustainability,” said the report from the Washington-based
National Conference on Public Employee Retirement Systems.  Under the agreement between Christie and Sweeney,  judges 
would move to 12 percent pension contributions, from 3 percent,
while police officers and firefighters would face an immediate
pension contribution increase to 10 percent from 8.5 percent,
the people said.  Retirement Age   The agreement also would raise the minimum retirement age
to 65 years old, from 62. It would abolish annual cost-of-living
raises until the pension system reaches 75 percent funding, at
which time a newly formed board would have the discretion to
reinstate the adjustments, the people said.  The deal would phase in higher health-care premium
contributions over four years, the two people said. The levels
would be based upon earnings in order to shield low-income
workers. The people declined to disclose a target for the
increased payments. Christie has called for workers to
contribute 30 percent of the cost.  Currently, government employees contribute 1.5 percent of
their salaries toward health-care premiums, an average of about
8.5 percent of the cost. The accord between Sweeney and Christie
would change that to have workers pay a set proportion of
premiums. Employees with 25 years or more of service, or those
55 and over, wouldn’t see any changes in their health-care
plans, according to the memo detailing the plan.  Another change in the accord would alter the way in which
government worker contracts are settled in cases of an impasse.
The deal would also end the governor’s right to impose a
contract if the state can’t reach an agreement with labor,
instead moving to mediation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Nj Statehouse at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  