-- 
Chrysler Global Sales Increase of 11% in May Is Below Marchionne’s Target

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-06-08T16:34:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/chrysler-global-sales-trail-marchionne-s-target-after-11-increase-in-may.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the U.S.
automaker operated by  Fiat SpA (F) , said global automobile sales in
May rose 11 percent from a year earlier, trailing the goal Chief
Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  set for 2011.  Global deliveries climbed to 160,144 last month, Auburn
Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler said in an e-mail. Worldwide
sales this year through May rose 17 percent to 714,403, trailing
the 32 percent growth rate Marchionne targeted for this year.  A global economy reeling from  Japan ’s record earthquake in
March and political turmoil in the Middle East may have slowed
Chrysler’s growth from its plan at the start of the year,
 Rebecca Lindland , an analyst with IHS Automotive, said today in
an interview.  “Forecasts that were put out at the beginning of the year
were really based on an economy that was expected to improve
more than it has not only in the U.S. but on a global basis,”
said Lindland, who’s based in Lexington,  Massachusetts .  Marchionne yesterday named Reid Bigland head of U.S. sales
and the Dodge brand. He takes on the new duties in addition to
his previous role as head of Chrysler’s Canada operations.  Marchionne is pushing Chrysler to sell 2 million vehicles
this year and turn its first annual net profit since emerging
from bankruptcy reorganization in 2009.  “I think we’re going to sell 2 million cars this year,”
Marchionne told reporters last week while visiting a Chrysler
plant in Toledo,  Ohio . “That’s what I want to sell.”  While Marchionne said he isn’t sure if the market will
strengthen in June, he said industry sales may improve in the
following months.  Marchionne ‘Magic’  “You can never rule out Marchionne meeting his goals
because he manages to pull off magic every day it seems,”
Lindland said. “But that’s definitely going to be a challenge.
He’s not getting any help from outside influences.”  Sales outside of  North America  rose 17 percent to 14,566 in
May, Ralph Kisiel, a Chrysler spokesman, said in an e-mail
yesterday. That’s faster than the 8.7 percent gain in non-North
America sales the company posted in April.  Sales in Canada rose 17 percent last month to 24,406 while
deliveries in  Mexico  fell 7.3 percent to 5,809, he said. The
company previously reported U.S. sales rose 10 percent to
115,363 in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  