-- 
Sprint Pares Clearwire Voting Interest to Less Than 50%

-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-06-08T20:28:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/clearwire-says-sprint-cut-voting-interest-to-49-8-from-54-.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-
largest U.S. wireless carrier, cut its voting stake in  Clearwire
Corp. (CLWR)  to less than 50 percent to settle investor concerns that
the partner may be considered a subsidiary.  The carrier told Clearwire on June 1 it pared its voting
interest to 49.8 percent from 53.7 percent, according to a
regulatory filing today. The move is a bid to quell any concerns
that Clearwire’s debt would become a liability to  Overland Park ,
Kansas-based Sprint.  “Sprint is proactively providing protection and
flexibility with respect to its debt agreements and eliminating
ongoing investor concerns about any potential cross-default
risk,”  Scott Sloat , a spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Clearwire has struggled to meet its cash needs as it builds
out its network using a technology known as WiMax. The company
last year disclosed it had doubt about its ability to continue
as a “going concern” before raising cash in a bond sale.  Sprint lost 15 cents, or 2.7 percent, to $5.34 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Clearwire declined
6 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $4.05 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Sprint has pledged as much as $5 billion to upgrade its
network over the next three to five years to combine several
disparate bands of spectrum onto a single type of base station.
Kirkland, Washington-based Clearwire and Sprint have held talks
about an arrangement to share  network equipment .  Removing Risk  “With today’s announcement, this removes any concern about
a cross-default risk -- which should allow Sprint to be able to
be more opportunistic in the debt markets,”  Jennifer Fritzsche ,
a Wells Fargo & Co. analyst in  Chicago , said in a research note.
She rates both Sprint and Clearwire “outperform.”  The voting change doesn’t affect Sprint’s equity stake in
Clearwire or its relationship as a customer of the carrier,
Sloat said. Sprint uses Clearwire’s wireless network to provide
so-called fourth-generation service.  Mike DiGioia, a spokesman for Clearwire, said in an e-mail
that the company doesn’t comment on the actions of its
investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  