-- 
Climate Talks Priority Is to Extend Kyoto Protocol, G77’s President Says

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-06-08T13:22:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/climate-talks-priority-is-to-extend-kyoto-protocol-g77-s-president-says.html
The priority of United Nations
climate talks this year should be to extend the world’s only
treaty that caps greenhouse-gas emissions beyond 2012, the lead
spokesman for 130 developing nations and  China  said.  Envoys from more than 190 countries need to agree on a
second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol during talks that
start Nov. 28 in Durban, South Africa,  Argentina ’s ambassador to
the UN, Jorge Arguello, said today in an interview at the latest
round of discussions in Bonn,  Germany . Argentina holds the
rotating presidency of the G77.  The stance by more than half the world’s countries puts
them at odds with nations such as  Japan , Russia and  Canada , who
have all said they won’t accept new binding targets under Kyoto
unless all major economies are bound. That includes China, now
the biggest emitter, and the U.S., which never ratified Kyoto.  “A second commitment period without those countries
wouldn’t have the same capacity or the same strength in its
results,” Arguello said. “The G77 and China clearly looks to
Durban to move forward with a second commitment period of the
 Kyoto Protocol . That’s the priority.”  Under Kyoto’s first enforcement period, 35 nations and the
European Union committed to reduce emissions by a collective 5.2
percent from 1990 levels by 2012. Christiana Figueres, the UN
official who stewards the treaty talks, said two days ago that a
gap is likely between the first and second round of commitments
because of the lag time needed to amend the Kyoto Protocol and
ratify it in all member nations.  Arguello said a second round of commitments without Japan,
Russia and Canada is “possible” and “depends on the level of
solidarity those countries want to show to the rest of the
planet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in Bonn at  amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  