-- 
Secretary Clinton and NATO to Plan Libya Post-Qaddafi as Yemen Unravels

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-06-08T21:56:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/clinton-to-discuss-libya-outlook-after-qaddafi-with-nato-as-yemen-unravels.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
arrived in Abu Dhabi to discuss with NATO allies the outlook for
Libya without  Muammar Qaddafi , even as the group’s attention may
shift farther east from Libya to the upheaval in Yemen.  With North Atlantic Treaty Organization jets stepping up
daytime strikes on Libya’s capital, Tripoli, the  United Arab
Emirates  will host Clinton and other members of the 22-nation
Libya Contact Group tomorrow.  In the first indication of a time frame, NATO Secretary-
General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said at a meeting in Brussels of
defense ministers from the alliance that Qaddafi’s departure
“may take weeks” but “could happen tomorrow.”  In Washington, President  Barack Obama  renewed his demand
that Qaddafi leave, as a chorus of world leaders predicted the
demise of the Libyan leader, who after a 42-year rule has failed
to crush a popular uprising that began in mid-February.  Qaddafi “must step down and hand power to the Libyan
people,” Obama said at a joint news conference yesterday with
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in  Washington . “The pressure
will only continue to increase until he does.”  At the  United Nations  in  New York , the chief prosecutor of
the  International Criminal Court ,  Luis Moreno-Ocampo , said he is
gathering evidence that may lead to charging Qaddafi with
ordering the systematic rape of women opposed to his regime.  Qaddafi remains in control of the capital, in the country’s
west, while the rebels run most of eastern Libya.  More Arab Backing  For the third meeting of the Libya Contact Group, the oil-
rich U.A.E is recruiting more Arab support for the NATO-enforced
air campaign, according to U.S. officials who spoke on condition
of anonymity. The U.A.E. and Qatar were the first Arab nations
to take part in the United Nations-authorized no-fly zone over
 Libya .  Mauritania, mentioned in the past as a potential safe haven
for Qaddafi, has become the latest country to call on him to
step down.  Discussions will deepen on what NATO allies envisage for a
post-Qaddafi Libya, including whether he and his family can stay
in the North African country, according to senior administration
officials. Regarding exile, there are no specific offers on the
table yet, the officials said.  “With each meeting, international pressure is growing and
momentum is building for change in Libya,” State Department
spokeswoman Victoria Nuland told reporters on the secretary’s
plane. “While the main focus of this meeting is on Libya,”
Clinton will have a chance to talk to European and Arab allies
about the “evolving situation in Syria,  Yemen  and Bahrain.”  Yemen Unravels  The situation in Libya may be overshadowed in tomorrow’s
discussions by the chaos unleashed in Yemen after an injured
President Ali Abdullah Saleh this week fled to  Saudi Arabia , yet
vowed to come back. After four months of demonstrations,
protesters celebrated his departure.  Violence in the Arab region’s poorest country threatens to
mirror the situation across the  Gulf of Aden  in Somalia, which
has been mired in a civil war for two decades and hasn’t had a
functioning central government since 1991.  Vice PresidentAbduraboo Mansur Hadi has assumed Saleh’s
duties “until the president returns,” Abdu al-Janadi, the
deputy information minister, said in a telephone interview from
Sana’a, the capital. That will be within days, state news agency
Saba said.  ‘Orderly Transition’  Though Saleh has been a strong ally in the fight against
al-Qaeda, the U.S. has called on Yemen’s leaders to proceed with
an immediate transition of power and say that counterterrorism
work would continue with others at the helm.  “I can’t speculate on what President Saleh is going to do
or say, but we do want to emphasize we’re calling for a peaceful
and orderly transition, a nonviolent transition,” Clinton said
June 6 at a joint news conference with French Foreign Minister
 Alain Juppe .  The Saudi cabinet, chaired by  King Abdullah , called for
Saleh to accept an accord to give up power after 33 years in
office, according to the Saudi Press Agency.  Terrorist attacks on the U.S. have been planned in Yemen.
Its strategic location in the  Arabian Gulf , the source of almost
20 percent of U.S. oil supplies, makes the country’s stability
an administration priority.  Badly Burned  U.S. administration officials said Saleh was more badly
burned than originally thought, raising doubts about his ability
to return. The Yemeni leader has reportedly received bad burns
to his face and to 40 percent of his body, according to
officials not authorized to speak on the record.  Al-Arabiya television reported today, citing unidentified
Saudi officials, that Saleh is in stable condition and has only
“minor burns” on his body.  Even as the outlook for Yemen is mired in uncertainty, in
Libya, the UN-sanctioned and NATO-enforced air campaign has
yielded results.  Airstrikes in the past month have pushed Qaddafi loyalists
out of the western port city of Misrata and aided some of the
rebel gains in the Berber highlands in the west.  Since the start of its March 31 mission, NATO has completed
3,860 so-called strike sorties, when warplanes identify targets
though don’t always fire munitions, according to an e-mailed
statement today. Among the targets hit yesterday were five
command and control facilities and one vehicle storage facility.  Jalal el-Gallal, a spokesman for the rebels’  National
Transitional Council , said fighters “completely liberated” the
western mountain town of Yefren yesterday.  Qaddafi’s regime has also been weakened by mass defections,
the latest top oil official Shokri Ghanem.  Libyan generals, two colonels and a major defected to rebel
forces at the end of May, bringing the total of army officers
who have left Qaddafi to 120, Libya’s former ambassador to the
United Nations, Abdel Rahman Shalgham, said on May 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  