-- 
Clinton to Discuss Libya Outlook After Qaddafi With NATO as Yemen Unravels

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-06-08T03:55:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/clinton-to-discuss-with-nato-libya-outlook-after-qaddafi-as-yemen-unravels.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
heads to Abu Dhabi to discuss with NATO allies the outlook for
Libya without  Muammar Qaddafi  even as the focus may shift
further east to Yemen, which is on the brink of civil war.  With North Atlantic Treaty Organization jets stepping up
daytime strikes on the Libyan capital of Tripoli, the  United
Arab Emirates  will host Clinton and other members of the 22-
nation Libya Contact Group on June 9. Qaddafi yesterday said
“martyrdom is a million times better” than surrender, in his
first broadcast comments in more than three weeks.  President  Barack Obama  renewed his demand that Qaddafi
leave as a growing chorus of world leaders predicted the  demise
of the Libyan dictator, who after a 42-year rule has failed to
crush a popular uprising that began mid-February.  Qaddafi “must step down and hand power to the Libyan
people,” Obama said yesterday at a joint news conference with
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in  Washington . “The pressure
will only continue to increase until he does.”  NATO Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said this week
Qaddafi is now “part of Libya’s past,” signaling the time has
come to start planning for the aftermath. Qaddafi remains in
control of the capital, in the country’s west, even though
rebels are running most of eastern Libya.  In  London , U.K. Foreign Secretary William Hague told
lawmakers in the House of Commons that the “Qaddafi regime is
isolated and on the defensive.” Merkel, standing next to Obama,
said “Qaddafi needs to step down and he will step down.”  Yemen Unravels  The situation in Libya may be overshadowed in tomorrow’s
discussions by the chaos unleashed in  Yemen  after an injured
President Ali Abdullah Saleh this week fled to  Saudi Arabia  yet
vowed to come back. After four months of demonstrations,
protesters celebrated his departure.  Violence in the Arab region’s poorest country threatens to
mirror the situation across the  Gulf of Aden  in Somalia, which
has been mired in a civil war for two decades and hasn’t had a
functioning central government since 1991.  Vice President Abduraboo Mansur Hadi has assumed Saleh’s
duties “until the president returns,” Abdu al-Janadi, the
deputy information minister, said in a phone interview from
Sana’a, the capital. That will be within days, state news agency
Saba said.  ‘Orderly Transition’  Though Saleh has been a strong ally in the fight against
al-Qaeda, the U.S. has called on Yemen’s leaders to proceed with
an immediate transition of power and say counterterrorism work
would continue with others at the helm.  “I can’t speculate on what President Saleh is going to do
or say, but we do want to emphasize we’re calling for a peaceful
and orderly transition, a nonviolent transition that is
consistent with Yemen’s own constitution,” Clinton said on June
6 at a joint news conference with French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe .  The Saudi cabinet, chaired by  King Abdullah , called for
Saleh to accept an accord to give up power after 33 years in
office, according to the Saudi Press Agency.  Terrorist attacks on the U.S. have been planned in Yemen.
Its strategic location in the Arabian Gulf, the source of almost
20 percent of U.S. oil supplies, makes the country’s stability
an administration priority.  Badly Burned  U.S. administration officials said Saleh was more badly
burned than originally thought, raising doubts about his ability
to return. The Yemeni leader has reportedly received bad burns
to his face and to 40 percent of his body, according to
officials not authorized to speak on the record.  Even as the outlook for Yemen is mired in uncertainty, in
 Libya , the UN-sanctioned and NATO-enforced air campaign has
yielded results.  Airstrikes in the past month have pushed Qaddafi loyalists
out of the western port city of Misrata, which is in rebel hands,
and aided some of their gains in the Berber highlands in the
west.  Jalal el-Gallal, a spokesman for the rebels’ National
Transitional Council, said fighters “completely liberated” the
western mountain town of Yefren yesterday.  Qaddafi’s regime has also been weakened by mass defections,
the latest top oil official Shokri Ghanem.  Libyan generals, two colonels and a major defected to rebel
forces at the end of May, bringing the total of Libyan army
officers who have left Qaddafi to 120, Libya’s former ambassador
to the  United Nations , Abdel Rahman Shalgham, said on May 30.  China  Visit  The Libyan leader may be stepping up efforts to find a
settlement. Libyan Foreign Minister Abdul Ati Al-Obeidi arrived
in China today for a three-day visit, after China yesterday
confirmed its diplomats had met with rebel leaders.  Al-Obeidi’s itinerary includes a meeting with his Chinese
counterpart, ministry spokesman Hong Lei told reporters in
Beijing today. Hong said yesterday that diplomats from the
Chinese Embassy in  Egypt  recently met officials from the Libyan
rebel Interim Transitional National Council in Benghazi.  Defense ministers from the 28-member alliance begin a two-
day meeting today in Brussels and will discuss progress in the
UN-mandated mission in Libya.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  Abu Dhabi  at  Fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  