-- 
Congo’s Inga Hydropower Project May Need Phased Implementation, AFDB Says

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-06-08T08:41:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/congo-s-inga-hydropower-project-may-need-phased-implementation-afdb-says.html
Democratic Republic of Congo’s plans
to generate 40,000 megawatts by damming the Congo River could be
staggered, making it easier to find funding and secure clients,
research commissioned by the  African Development Bank  shows.  Congo’s government estimates it needs $22 billion for the
Inga power complex, which would harness the power of the world’s
second-biggest river by volume after the Amazon. Work on the
project, which includes the $5.2 billion, 5,000-megawatt Inga 3
power plant, has stalled due to a lack of money and a firm
implementation plan.  “Inga is a once-in-a-lifetime project,” which the AfDB
wants to support, Bobby Pittman, the Tunis-based lender’s vice
president for infrastructure, said in an interview in Lisbon
yesterday.  The Inga complex would produce almost twice as much energy
as  China ’s Three Gorges dam and may meet the majority of power
needs in Africa, where less than a quarter of the population has
access to electricity. The project includes the Grand Inga dam
that would be developed after Inga 3.  In 2008, the AfDB agreed to fund a $15.7 million study of
the project. The research is due to be completed by September,
with initial findings indicating that Inga’s construction could
be implemented in several phases, Pittman said, without giving
details.  Congo’s rivers have the potential to produce 100,000
megawatts of power, according to the  World Bank .  BHP Talks  The central African nation completed the 351-megawatt Inga
1 hydropower plant in 1970, and the 1,424-megawatt Inga 2 plant
came into operation 12 years later. In 2007, the AfDB agreed to
give Congo a $58 million grant to refurbish the plants.  In October last year, Congo said it was in “very
advanced” talks on the Inga 3 project with  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
which was seeking electricity for a possible aluminum smelter.
BHP, the world’s biggest mining company, said at the time that
the talks on the power plant and smelter were at an “early
conceptual phase.”  The AfDB intends helping Congo harness financing for Inga
from private companies and other multilateral lenders, Pittman
said. He was unable to say how much funding the AfDB would
commit.  One of five major multilateral development lenders in the
world, the AfDB funded infrastructure projects worth $4 billion
last year. Energy projects accounted for $1.4 billion and
transportation projects $1.9 billion, the lender said in a
report released in Lisbon yesterday before its June 9-10 annual
general meeting.  The bank’s net income fell to $103.6 million last year from
$107.4 million in 2009, as impairment provisions rose.
Established in 1964, the  AfDB  has 53 member countries from
 Africa  and 24 from outside the continent, including the U.S.,
the European Union and  Japan .  Nigeria , Africa’s most populous
nation, has the biggest shareholding.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Lisbon at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  