-- 
Copper Leads Metals Lower on Concern About Economy

-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-06-08T07:17:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/copper-leads-metals-lower-on-concern-about-economy-correct-.html
(Corrects comparison, date in seventh paragraph.)  Copper, aluminum and lead in  London 
dropped for the first time in four days, as concern about an
economic slowdown grew after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  didn’t signal fresh stimulus even as the recovery
slows.  Three-month copper on the London Metal Exchange shed as
much as 1.3 percent to $9,026 a metric ton before trading at
$9,043 at 10:17 a.m. in Singapore. Tin fell for a sixth day to
its lowest level this year, set for its longest losing streak
since October 2008. Zinc and nickel also declined.  “Recent economic data have hurt near-term investor
sentiment, however most people are still in agreement the
fundamentals are still supportive,” Song Lu, an analyst at
Soochow Futures Co., said from Shanghai today.  July-delivery copper on the Comex in  New York  fell for the
first day in four, dropping as much as 1.5 percent to $4.0890
per pound. August-delivery metal on the Shanghai Futures
Exchange lost 0.2 percent to 68,260 yuan ($10,534) a ton.  Bernanke gave no hint of a new round of economic stimulus
even as he called the recovery “uneven” and “frustratingly
slow,” sending the dollar near a one-month low against the euro
and yen.  Copper prices may have peaked this year because the market
is “well-balanced,” according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. “There
is cash metal available everywhere in  China , and the market is
well-supplied,”  Michael Jansen , the head of metals research,
said in an interview yesterday.  Inventories monitored by the  Shanghai  Futures Exchange rose
for the first week in eleven last week, while stockpiles in LME
Asian warehouses have climbed 30 percent since the end of March
and stood at 193,125 tons yesterday.  “Bonded warehouse stockpiles are falling, however much of
the metal is being rerouted to LME warehouses rather than
absorbed by the physical market,” said Song. Chinese importers
reroute metal to nearby warehouses when the price gap between
London and Shanghai makes inbound shipments unprofitable.  Supply Disruption  Ongoing supply disruptions in  Chile , the largest producer,
may worsen an expected shortage this year, estimated by the
International Copper Study Group to be 377,000 tons. Codelco,
the world’s largest copper company, said the current cycle of
high prices will last “a substantial amount of years.”  Codelco will miss its second-quarter production target as
protests by contract workers disrupt operations at a mine in
central Chile, Chief Executive Officer  Diego Hernandez  said in
an interview yesterday.  The El Teniente mine is operating at 30 percent to 40
percent of capacity after most full-time employees stopped work
when protesters threw stones at their buses on June 3, Hernandez
said. Teck Resources Ltd. planned to restart its Andacollo
copper mine in northern Chile yesterday after it was shut
because of heavy rains, the company said.  Lead in London decreased 0.7 percent to $2,531 a ton,
aluminum lost 0.2 percent to $2,682 a ton, zinc shed 0.9 percent
to $2,252 a ton, nickel dropped 0.3 percent to $22,555 a ton and
tin declined 1.3 percent to $25,500 a ton.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Glenys Sim in  Singapore  at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net  