-- 
Copper to Surge to Record by Year’s End on Chinese Demand, Barclays Says

-- B y   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-06-08T16:46:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/copper-to-surge-to-record-by-year-s-end-on-chinese-demand-barclays-says.html
Copper prices will rise to a record
$12,000 a metric ton by the end of the year as China’s imports
rebound, said Nicholas Snowdon, an analyst at  Barclays Capital 
in  London .  “The Chinese market is awakening from the destocking cycle
that lasted nine months,” Snowdon said today at a Metal
Bulletin conference in New York. “Their backyard inventories
have been completely depleted. By July, we will begin to see a
steady increase in imports.”  Copper has almost tripled since the end of 2008, reaching
an all-time high of $10,190 on Feb. 15 in London as mining
companies struggled to keep pace with rising consumption.
Inventories monitored by the Shanghai Futures Exchange have
plunged 51 percent since mid-March. Stockpiles on the London
Metal Exchange have jumped 37 percent from a 14-month low in
December.  An increase in Chinese imports “should be enough to push
down LME stocks on an aggressive basis,” Snowdon said. Global
inventories will fall to “all-time low later this year” as
mine output is projected to be “more or less flat,” he said.  On the LME, copper prices have dropped 11 percent from the
record after manufacturing slowed in  China , the world’s top
consumer of industrial metals, and the U.S.  “The macro data really offers a false signal in terms of
where we are headed in the next quarter,” Snowdon said.
“Certainly, tighter credit is a very serious issue in China,
and fabricators and manufacturers are operating in a very tepid
hand-to-mouth fashion, but even that is enough to drive imports
higher.”  Chinese imports in June may jump 25 percent from April as
consumption and investment demand rise, Jesse Jiang, the manager
of copper research at state-owned Beijing Antaike Information
Development Co., said yesterday in an interview.  Copper for delivery in three months fell $84, or 0.9
percent, to $9,056 at 5:46 p.m. in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yi Tian in  New York  at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 