-- 
Covenant-Lite Loans Default Less Than All Issuers, Moody’s Says

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 
2011-06-08T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/covenant-lite-loans-default-less-than-all-issuers-moody-s-says.html
Companies with covenant-lite loans
defaulted less than issuers that had bank debt with a full
package of financial conditions, according to a report from
Moody’s Investors Service.  In an analysis of 104 U.S. covenant-lite loans issued
between 2005 and 2007, 15 defaulted for a 7.8 percent default
rate, according to the report. That compares with a default rate
of 10.35 percent for all rated North American corporate issuers.  Defaults are lower because covenant-lite debt limits a bank
lender’s ability to force a company to restructure, Moody’s
said. The first-lien loans in these deals also had higher
recovery rates compared with other defaulted debt, David Keisman, senior vice president at Moody’s in  New York , wrote in
the report.  “They didn’t have to come back to the banks and
renegotiate,” Keisman said in a telephone interview, regarding
the reason the default rate was lower on covenant-lite loans.  Covenant-lite loans offer flexibility to a company to get
through a “rough patch” rather than being forced by lenders
into bankruptcy or a restructuring, Moody’s said. The “opposing
view” is that the loans will diminish a company’s value, while
an earlier restructuring would allow investors to recover more
of their money, according to the report.  Of the 15 covenant-lite defaults, seven were distressed
exchanges, where the bank debt didn’t default, Keisman said. The
default rate for covenant-lite loans only, as opposed to
companies with covenant-lite debt, was 4.1 percent, according to
the report. Thomson Reuters LPC provided Moody’s with the
covenant-lite loan information.  ‘Saw an Opportunity’  “When seven out of the 15 are distressed exchanges, you
can say they saw an opportunity and took advantage of it,”
Keisman said. Almost 70 percent of the loans were for companies
backed by private equity, according to the report.  In comparing the defaulted first-lien covenant-lite loans
with 136 non-financial corporate issuers that emerged from
default between the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first quarter
of 2011, the covenant-lite loans had an 89.6 percent recovery
compared with 81.5 percent for the other issuers, according to
the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  