-- 
Crime and Punishment and Senator John Edwards: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-06-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/crime-and-punishment-and-senator-john-edwards-margaret-carlson.html
John Edwards  committed the perfect
crime. He began an affair with campaign videographer Rielle Hunter on the night she waited outside his New York hotel and
told him he was “hot” and later produced a child with her. Yet
he didn’t suffer for it at the polls. He lost his bid for the
White House in 2008 simply because voters, who knew nothing of
his dalliance, concluded that he wasn’t presidential timber. Nor
was he denied access to his children, as men in his situation so
often are. Instead, he won them in an existential custody fight
that his wife lost by dying.  Then last week the  Justice Department  indicted the former
senator on charges of conspiracy, perjury and campaign finance
law violations. It was enough to make me want to hug U.S.
Assistant Attorney General  Lanny Breuer , who announced the
charges. Karma-wise, Edwards had it coming. Officially he’s
being tried for breaking federal laws. But in the eyes of many,
he’s also finally being called to account for inflicting severe
emotional distress on his wife, children and country.  Breuer, who came to national prominence as counsel to
President  Bill Clinton  during the impeachment ordeal, may have a
case. The  indictment  states that lawyer Fred Baron, a former
chairman of Edwards’s fundraising committee, and heiress Rachel
“Bunny” Mellon together provided $925,000 to Edwards to help him
cover up his affair with Hunter.  Mellon had previously offered to pay for Edwards’s $400
haircuts to spare him from criticism that he was a pretty boy
masquerading as the bridge between the Two Americas.  Phony in Chief  According to a  book  by a former Edwards aide, Andrew Young,
the prospect of a rooftop wedding in  New York  with Dave Matthews
on the bandstand -- and a shot at becoming first lady -- wasn’t
enough for Hunter to ensure the affair’s secrecy. That required
lavish accommodations, private jets and other blandishments.
Thanks to the generosity of Baron and Mellon, Hunter was kept
happy and Edwards got to run for president without being exposed
as an even bigger phony than he seemed.  Breuer’s hurdle is to translate this tawdry tale into a
violation of campaign finance laws. If the hush money, and the
conspiracy behind it, were intended to keep Edwards’s wife,
Elizabeth, in the dark, as the defense claims, that’s not a
crime. Cheating husbands pay off mistresses all the time --
though they rarely receive such generous help from friends.
However, if the purpose was to keep voters in the dark, as the
19-page indictment charges, that’s a different matter.  Political Becomes Personal  Breuer treats the personal and political as one: he says
Edwards’s image as a devoted family man was the “centerpiece” of
his candidacy. Edwards understood that public knowledge of his
affair would destroy that image and with it his candidacy. Thus
the money was used to advance Edwards’s campaign, and was
consequently subject to federal limits -- $2,300 per donor at
the time -- and reporting requirements. What’s more, by not
informing his campaign finance staff of the money, Edwards
caused them to make false statements on campaign finance
documents.  Now try proving all that. One of the two donors, Baron, is
dead. The other, Mellon, is 100 years old. According to Andrew
Young, the only thing asked in return for her donations, which
were laundered through a decorator who hid some checks in boxes
of chocolates, was that Edwards attend her daughter’s funeral.
(He didn’t.) As for the expected testimony of Edwards’s former
aide, the defense will point out that Young participated in the
cover-up so energetically that he even claimed Hunter’s child
was his. Why should a jury trust him now?  Worse Than Prison  Though he faces as much as five years in prison, Edwards
refused a plea bargain, perhaps suggesting confidence that he’ll
beat the rap. Yet he may be punished even if his case is
dismissed or a jury acquits him: He might end up marrying
Hunter, who has repeatedly proved herself to be an extremely
unappealing character. In 2010, she posed for GQ  magazine 
wearing a man’s white shirt and no pants, her legs akimbo across
a bed filled with stuffed toys, to lay claim, publicly, to a
dying woman’s husband. Her daughter will one day discover this
photo.  For those seeking evidence that suffering has changed John
Edwards, consider his press conference outside the federal
building where he was booked on charges that could find him
swapping tailored pinstripes for an orange jumpsuit. Just to
Edwards’s right was his older daughter, Cate -- a testament to
the fact that no matter how big a lout, we get only one father
in life. The scene suggested a woman standing by a man for the
sake of her family. And we can guess why Edwards drew her into
that sad tableau: He did it for himself. Thanks for trying Lanny
Breuer. But there’s no earthly punishment to fit this crime.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  For more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net  