-- 
Crude Oil Climbs to a One-Week High as OPEC Members Fail to Reach Accord

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-06-08T20:34:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/crude-oil-futures-rise-as-opec-unable-to-reach-consensus-on-output-targets.html
Oil rose to a one-week high in  New
York  after OPEC failed to reach an agreement on production
targets for the first time in at least 20 years at its meeting
in Vienna today.  Futures gained 1.7 percent after Mohammad Aliabadi, the
acting Iranian oil minister and OPEC president, said the group
will maintain current output for now. A Gulf delegate said
yesterday that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
was going to increase quotas. A U.S. government report showed a
larger-than-forecast drop in oil supplies.  “The market is higher because OPEC failed to raise
production today and we got a bigger-than-expected fall in
inventories,” said Kyle Cooper, director of research at IAF
Advisors in Houston. “You’re seeing the big reaction to the
OPEC news because a quota increase has been expected.”  Crude oil for July delivery rose $1.65 to $100.74 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement
since May 31. Prices are up 40 percent in the past year.  Brent crude oil for July delivery climbed $1.07, or 0.9
percent, to end the session at $117.85 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It was the highest settlement
since May 4.  Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali Al-Naimi, representing
OPEC’s biggest producer, said his country is ready to supply
whatever the market needs.  “It was one of the worst meetings we’ve ever had,” al-
Naimi told reporters. “We were unable to reach an agreement.”  Proposed Increase  Saudi Arabia, together with  Kuwait , Qatar and the  United
Arab Emirates , were ready to supply more oil to the market, al-
Naimi said. The four nations proposed a 1.5 million-barrel-a-day
increase from the current 28.8 million. That would have meant
output of 30.3 million barrels a day, he said.  Libya,  Angola , Ecuador,  Algeria , Iran and  Venezuela  were
opposed to an increase, Naimi said.  “More oil is going to quietly come out of the Gulf,” said
 Rick Mueller , a principal with ESAI Energy, LLC in Wakefield,
 Massachusetts . “They are concerned about rising demand in the
third and fourth quarters and don’t want to see the market
starved and see prices rise to such a high level that they hurt
economic growth.”  Global oil demand will climb to 89.18 million barrels a day
during the third quarter, the highest level of 2011, the U.S.
Energy Department said yesterday.  OPEC’s failure to agree to increase quotas shows that some
of the group’s members have limited spare capacity, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. said.  $130 Oil  It will be a “stretch” for  Saudi Arabia  to add on its own
the 1.9 million barrels a day of production needed to meet the
30.87 million demand OPEC forecasts for its oil in the third
quarter, JPMorgan analysts including  Lawrence Eagles  wrote in a
note today. The bank reiterated its forecast that oil will reach
$130 a barrel this year.  “The knee-jerk reaction to the OPEC news is probably a
little overdone,” said Carl Larry, director of energy
derivatives and research with Blue Ocean Brokerage LLC in New
York. “It does show that there’s dissension among the members.
We’re trading more on the political implications of the meeting
than any changes in physical oil supply.”  OPEC’s failure to reach a decision on targets shows  Iran 
has increased its stature within the group, according to
Petromatrix GmbH. Iran has replaced Saudi Arabia as the most
influential member,  Olivier Jakob , managing director of the
Geneva-based research group, said today in an interview.  Contentious Meeting  “This has got be one of their most contentious meetings
ever,” said Sean Brodrick, a natural resource analyst with
 Weiss Research  in Jupiter,  Florida . “You would have thought
they would have at least legalized the cheating that’s already
taken place.”  The 11 members with quotas, all except  Iraq , produced 26.22
million barrels a day last month, 1.375 million above their
target, according to Bloomberg News estimates.  “OPEC has been operating well above their allocation
levels for some time, over 1.3 million barrels a day above, even
with  Libya  production off the market,” said  David Greely , head
of energy research at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York.
“The allocation levels have had little connection to actual
production levels for some time.”  Oil in New York has traded between $95.02 and $104.60 since
May 9.  “The bottom line is that we’re still in a $95-to-$105
range,” said Todd Horwitz, chief strategist at Adam Mesh
Trading Group in New York. “Everything that happens within the
range is just noise. We’ll need a crisis to get above $105, and
the failure of OPEC to come to an agreement is not a crisis.”  U.S. Inventories  The lack of an OPEC agreement overshadowed an Energy
Department report that oil supplies fell more than expected.  Stockpiles decreased 4.85 million barrels to 369 million
last week, the biggest decline this year, according to the
Energy Department. A 1.38 million-barrel inventory drop was
forecast, according to the median of responses in a Bloomberg
News survey of 14 analysts.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 954,622
contracts as of 3:17 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 862,816
contracts yesterday, 30 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.52 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  