-- 
Debit Fees, Privacy Breaches, Insider Trading: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-06-08T11:52:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/debit-card-fees-privacy-breaches-insider-trading-fraud-plea-compliance.html
A  Federal Reserve  rule capping debit-
card “swipe” fees set by  Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  would
be delayed at least six months under a plan being crafted in the
U.S. Senate, said two people with direct knowledge of the talks.  Senators Jon Tester, a Montana Democrat, and  Bob Corker , a
Tennessee Republican, who earlier pushed for a two-year
postponement, are among lawmakers said to be working on a
compromise that would let regulators study the issue before
determining whether to write new rules. The caps, mandated by
the Dodd-Frank Act, are set to take effect July 21.  The Fed would get more months if the study shows the
current  proposal  would hurt consumers or fail to exempt banks
with less than $10 billion in assets, said the people, who
declined to be identified because a deal hasn’t been reached. In
December, the Fed proposed capping the swipe fees, or
 interchange , at 12 cents a transaction, replacing a formula that
averages 1.14 percent of the purchase price.  “For several months, Senator Tester and Senator Corker
have been working with colleagues on a bill to prevent consumers
and rural banks from experiencing serious harm as a result of
the interchange amendment,” Andrea Helling, Tester’s
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “The conversations continue to
progress, and we feel confident that in the next 24 hours we
will have a bill that can become law.”  David Skidmore , a Fed spokesman, didn’t return phone and e-
mail messages.  Compliance Policy  U.S. Regulators Extend Comment Deadline on Risk-Retention Rule  U.S. regulators extended the comment period for Dodd-Frank
Act risk-retention rules that could make it more difficult or
expensive for borrowers to get mortgages.  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal
Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., Securities and
Exchange Commission, the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the
Department of Housing and Urban Development announced the
extension in a statement yesterday. The comment period, which
was to end June 10, was extended to Aug. 1.  Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted last year,
requires lenders and bond issuers to keep a 5 percent stake in
loans they bundle for sale to investors. Forcing the industry to
share potential losses was meant to rein in risky lending and
avoid mistakes that led to a flood of subprime mortgages, which
helped trigger the 2008 financial collapse.  The law requires regulators to exempt home loans that are
deemed safe, including those with fixed  interest rates  and long
repayment terms.  Concealing a Data Breach Would Be a Crime Under Leahy Bill  U.S. Senator Patrick Leahy introduced legislation that
seeks to enhance protections for consumers’ personal
information, citing recent data breaches at  Sony Corp. (6758)  and
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)   The bill would establish a national standard for companies
to notify customers when their personal data has been exposed,
according to a news  release  yesterday from Leahy, a Vermont
Democrat who chairs the Senate Judiciary Committee. The measure
also proposes criminal penalties for those who conceal data
breaches that cause “economic damage” to consumers.  “The many recent and troubling data breaches in the
private sector and in our government are clear evidence that
developing a comprehensive national strategy to protect data
privacy and security is one of the most challenging and
important issues facing our country,” Leahy said in a
statement.  The bill is co-sponsored by two other Democrats, Senators
Charles Schumer of  New York  and Ben Cardin of  Maryland . Leahy
introduced similar cybersecurity measures in 2005, 2007 and 2009
that failed to advance in the Senate.  A recent flurry of security breaches at large companies has
sharpened U.S. government scrutiny of how businesses safeguard
consumer information and notify the public about cyber attacks.  Sony, targeted since April by hacker attacks that have
compromised more than 100 million customer accounts, said
yesterday it is investigating two new possible intrusions.  Compliance Action  Ex-SAC Capital Manager Testifies about Trades, Drugs at Trial  A former hedge-fund portfolio manager told a federal jury
in New York yesterday that he was involved in at least 18
incidents of insider trading while working at Sonar Capital and
later at SAC Capital Advisors LLP.  Noah Freeman, who pleaded guilty to securities fraud, is
the first of three cooperating witnesses who the U.S. said will
testify against Winifred Jiau, 43, a former Primary Global
Research LLC consultant charged with conspiracy and securities
fraud.  She is the first of the so-called expert networkers to go
on trial as part of a U.S. crackdown on insider trading at  hedge
funds . She faces as long as 25 years in prison if convicted.  David Luttinger, a lawyer for Jiau, asked Freeman how many
times he engaged in insider trading at Sonar Capital.  “Approximately a dozen where I’m totally confident the
information was material and nonpublic,” Freeman said.  Luttinger also questioned Freeman about drug use. Freeman,
a Harvard University graduate, testified that on a business trip
he ingested a hallucinogenic mushroom that resulted in his
wandering around the streets of  San Francisco  in his underwear.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC Capital, said in
an e-mailed statement, “Freeman’s testimony confirms what we
said initially: his outrageous actions required active
circumvention of our compliance policies and systems.”  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-Credit Suisse Broker Tzolov Ends Up With Four-Year Sentence  Julian Tzolov , a former  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  broker who
fled prosecution before pleading guilty to securities fraud, was
sentenced to four years in prison after initially getting a
five-year term earlier in the day.  Tzolov, 38, was sentenced yesterday by U.S. District Judge
Jack B. Weinstein in Brooklyn, New York. He was accused of
fraudulently selling securities that cost corporate clients more
than $1.1 billion.  The judge cut the original five-year term after
recalculating the penalty for bail jumping, according to
Benjamin Brafman, a lawyer for Tzolov, and  Robert Nardoza , a
spokesman for the U.S. Attorney’s Office.  Tzolov, a native of Bulgaria, returned to New York from
 Spain  in July 2009 after fleeing for three months. Tzolov
pleaded guilty when he returned to the U.S. and has been in
custody since. He testified as a prosecution witness against
Eric Butler, his former partner.  The jury found Butler guilty in August 2009. Weinstein
sentenced Butler, 39, in January 2010 to five years in prison.
Butler is free on bail while he appeals his conviction.  Weinstein sentenced Tzolov to 2 1/2 years for securities
fraud, two conspiracy counts and seven wire-fraud counts. He
added another 1 1/2 years, to run consecutively, for bail
jumping. He granted probation for a count of immigration fraud.  In pleading guilty, Tzolov said he and Butler intentionally
misled clients about securities purchased on their behalf,
falsely claiming they were backed by federally guaranteed
student loans. The men told clients the investments, actually
backed by riskier corporate debt and subprime mortgages, were a
safe alternative to bank deposits or money-market funds, said
prosecutors in the office of U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch in
Brooklyn.  The cases are U.S. v. Tzolov, 08-cr-370, 09-cr-475 and 10-
cr-83, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  Ex-Primary Global Networker Chu Pleads Guilty in Insider Case  Former  Primary Global Research LLC  consultant Don Ching
Trang Chu pleaded guilty and admitted helping employees of
public companies pass confidential information to the expert
networking firm’s hedge fund clients.  Chu, 57, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit securities
fraud and conspiracy to commit wire fraud in a hearing yesterday
before U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in New York.  Chu worked as the Taiwan liaison for Mountain View,
California-based Primary Global before he was arrested in
November. He told Rakoff that inside information was shared with
former SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio manager Noah Freeman
and Sam Barai, founder of Barai Capital Management LP.  Barai and Freeman both have pleaded guilty.  Chu was accused in connection with one of three alleged
overlapping insider-trading rings that included Galleon Group
LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam. Prosecutors said Chu facilitated
a conversation in July 2009 between Richard Choo-Beng Lee, a
former partner at San Jose, California-based Spherix Capital
LLC, a Primary Global client, and an unidentified employee of a
publicly traded technology company.  Lee pleaded guilty and is cooperating with the government
along with his partner, Ali Far.  Chu signed an agreement with prosecutors yesterday that
requires him to cooperate with their investigation, according to
the judge.  The government and Chu’s lawyer,  James DeVita , agreed that
federal guidelines call for Chu to get as much as six months in
prison. Rakoff, who may disregard the guidelines, told Chu he
faces as long as 25 years in prison when he’s sentenced Sept. 7.  The case is U.S. v. Chu, 1:11-cr-00032, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Courts  JPMorgan Sued by Syncora Over Bear Stearns Mortgages Deal  J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, formerly Bear, Stearns & Co.,
was accused in a lawsuit by Syncora Guarantee Inc. of making
false and misleading statements about loans pooled into a 2007
mortgage-backed securities transaction.  The transaction, known as GreenPoint Mortgage Funding Trust
2007-HE1 and insured by Syncora, resulted in more than $168.6
million in unreimbursed insurance claims after about two years,
according to the complaint, filed June 6 in New York state
Supreme Court in Manhattan.  Syncora, based in New York, won part of a federal court
lawsuit against Bear Stearns affiliate EMC Mortgage Corp. on
March 1 in an earlier case involving the transaction. Bear
Stearns and EMC are now part of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   “Each day the evidence continues to mount of the
egregious, widespread fraud perpetrated by Bear Stearns in
connection with its mortgage securitization business and the
catastrophic consequences for the participants in the
securitizations,” Syncora said in its new state-court
complaint.  Bear Stearns was the underwriter of the transaction while
EMC was the sponsor. U.S. District Judge Paul A. Crotty in New
York ruled March 25 that Syncora notified EMC of 1,300 mortgages
with defects and asked EMC to cure them. EMC agreed to cure only
20 of the mortgages, according to that ruling.  Crotty separately rejected a bid by Syncora to add
JPMorgan’s Bear Stearns unit to the federal lawsuit because that
request wasn’t filed in a timely fashion, the judge said.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for New York-based
JPMorgan, declined to comment yesterday.  The case is Syncora Guarantee Inc. v. J.P. Morgan
Securities LLC, 651566/2011, New York state Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  Barclays Must Pay Lehman Brokerage $2 Billion in Margin Assets  Barclays Plc (BARC) , which bought Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
North American business, must return $2 billion in margin assets
to the trustee liquidating the remains of Lehman’s brokerage and
pay about $270 million in interest, a bankruptcy judge ruled.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in New York yesterday said
Barclays must pay the trustee 5 percent interest on the assets
from September 2008 until he signs his final order on the case.
Barclays will appeal, the bank said in an e-mailed statement.  The amount Barclays must return will be offset by $1.1
billion in assets that the two parties previously agreed should
go to the U.K. bank, which bought Lehman’s businesses in the
2008 credit crisis. That cuts its cost to about $1.2 billion,
including interest. However, Barclays lost its bid for $1.9
billion in margin to offset liabilities it took on with some of
the brokerage’s trading positions.  Peck’s “ruling brings finality to this issue by confirming
that the $4 billion in Lehman cash and other margin assets
belongs to the Trustee,” William Maguire, a lawyer for
brokerage trustee James Giddens, said in an e-mail. The judge
said he would publish his ruling later.  The main case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-
13555,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Kingate Funds to Be Sued for $975 Million by Madoff Trustee  Kingate Global Fund Ltd., Kingate Euro Fund Ltd. and other
defendants will be sued for $975 million by the trustee
liquidating Bernard Madoff’s investment firm, according to a
court filing.  Trustee Irving Picard yesterday got permission from Judge
 Burton Lifland  to file a new complaint against the two so-called
feeder funds who invested with the con man, according to a law
clerk for Lifland. Picard originally sued the funds in 2009,
claiming $255 million that he said they withdrew before Madoff’s
arrest in December 2008. The funds are being liquidated in the
British Virgin Islands.  Picard’s proposed complaint names Federico Ceretti and
Carlo Grosso, “Italian nationals operating from England” who
funneled about $1.7 billion of investors’ money to Madoff’s
Ponzi scheme from 1994 through the Kingate funds, which they set
up and ran, he said. Ceretti, Grosso and the funds should have
known of Madoff’s fraud and must return $975 million they
redeemed, Picard said in the proposed, 129-page suit.  “These avoidable transfers to the Kingate funds are
customer property that must be returned to the estate,” he
said.  William Tacon of Zolfo Cooper, a liquidator for the funds,
declined to comment on Picard’s pending suit. The document,
attached to a request to Lifland for permission to file it, also
names investment firm FIM Advisers LLP, run by Ceretti and
Grosso, along with trusts and HSBC Bank Bermuda Ltd.  Antony Zacaroli, a lawyer for FIM, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  The case is Picard v. Ceretti, 09-cv-1161, U.S. bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Gupta Sued by Goldman Shareholder for ‘Short-Swing’ Profits  Ex- Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director Rajat Gupta was sued
by a shareholder to recover “short-swing” profit on trades
allegedly based on inside tips from Gupta that were made by
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam.  Investor James Mercer, in a complaint filed June 6 in
federal court in Manhattan, seeks to recover profit Galleon made
from trading Goldman shares within a six-month period based on
information from Gupta.  “Mr. Gupta was beneficial owner of these securities
because he had a pecuniary interest in the profits generated by
this trading activity,” Mercer, a resident of Kirkland,
 Washington , said in the complaint. “Mr. Rajaratnam undoubtedly
paid Mr. Gupta for the Goldman Sachs inside information on which
these trades were made.”  Mercer is seeking a judgment requiring Gupta to pay the
short-swing profits from Galleon’s trading, from June to October
of 2008. Mercer didn’t specify the amount he’s seeking in the
suit.  “This lawsuit is completely without merit, and we will
vigorously defend against it,”  Gary Naftalis , a lawyer for
Gupta, said in a statement.  In March, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filed
an administrative proceeding accusing Gupta of passing tips to
Rajaratnam. Naftalis called those allegations totally baseless
at the time.  Ed Canaday , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment yesterday.  The case is Mercer v. Gupta, 11-cv-03828, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  British Airways, LAN to Pay $155.5 Million in Cartel Suits  British Airways and Chilean carrier  Lan Airlines SA (LAN)  agreed
to pay a total of $155.5 million to cargo customers to settle a
U.S. lawsuit over their involvement in a global price-fixing
cartel that increased fuel surcharges.  The deals, which must be approved by a New York judge, will
resolve claims by companies that used the airlines’ freight
services from 2000 through 2006, the law firm Hausfeld LLP said
yesterday in a statement. British Airways will pay $89.5
million, while Santiago-based Lan will pay $66 million.  “We will continue our efforts to pursue recoveries for the
huge number of victims of this cartel both in the U.S. and
around the world,” Michael Hausfeld, a lawyer for the freight
shippers, said in the statement.  European Union regulators in November fined British Airways
and 10 other carriers a total of 779.4 million euros ($1.15
billion) for coordinating fuel and security surcharges. London-
based British Airways, whose share of the fine was 104 million
euros, pleaded guilty in the U.S.,  Australia  and Canada and was
later fined by a South Korean regulator.  “We are pleased that we have reached a settlement over
these claims made by cargo customers in the U.S.,” British
Airways spokesman Euan Fordyce said in a phone interview.  Lan’s payment will be made by June 14 and won’t affect the
company’s results, the carrier said in a statement on the
website of Chile’s securities regulator.  The class-action lawsuit in New York has generated
settlements totaling about $434 million, including $87 million
from  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group last year and $85 million from
Deutsche Lufthansa AG in 2006, Hausfeld said. AMR Corp.’s
American Airlines last year agreed to pay $5 million and provide
witnesses and evidence to help the customers.  British Airways in November won a U.K. Court of Appeal
ruling blocking hundreds of air-cargo customers from forming a
group in a U.S.-style class action lawsuit over the cartel.  The case is In re Air Cargo Shipping Services Antitrust
Litigation, 06-MD-1775 (JG) (VVP), U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of New York (Brooklyn).  Interviews/Speeches  Groupon Chairman Remarks May Require New Company Filing  Remarks by Groupon Inc. Chairman Eric Lefkofsky, who said
the money-losing daily-coupon provider will be “wildly
profitable,” may force the company to make new filings before
it sells shares to the public.  Lefkofsky, Groupon’s co-founder and biggest shareholder,
made the comments June 3, a day after Chicago-based Groupon
announced plans to raise $750 million in an initial public
offering.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission  limits  what
companies planning IPOs can say about their prospects before
listing shares. Groupon may need to file new documents that
disclose Lefkofsky’s comments and either discount or ratify
them, said Noah Hagey, a managing partner at  BraunHagey LLP .  “Where you have somebody with insider knowledge and status
making predictions about how the company is going to perform,
which conflicts or potentially conflicts with what’s in the
registration statement, I think that draws attention,” Hagey
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television.  While Groupon’s sales surged 14-fold to $644.7 million last
quarter, the company has racked up operating losses of $540.2
million since its founding in 2008.  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC in Washington,
declined to comment, as did Julie Mossler, a spokeswoman for
Groupon.  To reconcile Lefkofsky’s comments with SEC rules, the
company could file regulatory documents that say Groupon may be
“profitable” over the next decade or two, without saying
exactly when, said Marc Morgenstern, managing partner of  Blue
Mesa Partners , a San Francisco-based investment firm.  In 2005, the SEC adopted new rules to update securities-
offering requirements after  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s $1.67 billion IPO a
year earlier. Playboy published an interview with Google’s
founders before the offering, raising concern about selective
disclosure. Under the revised rules, executives may speak to the
media, as in Google’s Playboy interview, provided they file a
copy of the remarks with the SEC.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 