-- 
Leo Strine Named Chief Delaware Chancery Judge by Governor

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-06-08T18:47:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/delaware-governor-names-leo-strine-as-new-state-chancellor.html
Delaware  Chancery Court Judge Leo E. Strine Jr., a 13-year veteran of the specialty business court,
was nominated as chief judge by Governor Jack Markell.  The governor today also named Sam Glasscock III, a long-
time court master, to fill a vacancy left by Chief Judge William B. Chandler III, who is leaving to join the law firm of  Wilson
Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati .  Strine “has been a leading voice in corporate America,”
Markell said in a statement. The nominations must be approved by
the Delaware Senate.  Chandler led the five-member court since 1997 and ruled on
high-profile business cases involving companies such as Hewlett-
Packard Co. and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  Strine’s recent cases included
lawsuits over the buyout of West Virginia coal producer Massey
Energy Co. and a challenge to an anti-takeover defense for
bookseller  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)   The  Delaware Chancery Court , founded in 1792, is a major
forum for litigating business disputes because more than 60
percent of Fortune 500 companies are incorporated in the state,
according to legal experts such as University of  Pennsylvania 
law professor Jill Fisch.  Companies incorporate in Delaware to take advantage of laws
that give their directors wide latitude and to gain access to
the chancery court, which provides fast-track trials that are
heard strictly by sophisticated judges.  Carper Counsel  Strine, 47, served as counsel to Tom Carper, a Democrat who
was Delaware’s governor from 1993 until 2001. Carper is now one
of Delaware’s two senators. Strine also worked for Skadden,
Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP.  Strine earned a bachelor’s degree from the  University of
Delaware  and a law degree from the  University of Pennsylvania ,
according to the court’s  website .  “If the Senate confirms me, I will do my utmost to
continue our court’s tradition of delivering timely and well-
reasoned decisions in all our cases,” Strine said in a
statement provided by the governor’s office.  Glasscock, 53, a native of Erie, Pennsylvania, grew up in
Lewes, Delaware, earned bachelor’s and master’s degrees from the
University of Delaware, and received a law degree from  Duke
University , the court’s website shows. He has worked for
 Prickett, Jones, Elliott, Kristol & Schnee  and for the Delaware
Department of Justice, and has been with the Chancery court for
12 years.  “It’s a tremendous honor being associated with this
court,” Glasscock said in a phone interview. If confirmed, he
expects to hear cases in all three Delaware counties, he said.  The chancery court’s other judges are Donald F. Parsons Jr., J. Travis Laster and John W. Noble.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  