-- 
Derby Winner Animal Kingdom Made 2-1 Favorite at Belmont; Shackleford 9-2

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-06-08T16:42:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/derby-winner-animal-kingdom-made-2-1-favorite-at-belmont-shackleford-9-2.html
Kentucky  Derby champion Animal
Kingdom was installed as the 2-1 favorite in the 143rd Belmont
Stakes, the third leg of thoroughbred racing’s Triple Crown.  Animal Kingdom, the 3-year-old colt who finished second by
a half length in the  Preakness Stakes , will leave from the ninth
post position with John Velazquez aboard at Belmont Park in
Elmont,  New York , for the June 11 race.  Derby runner-up Nehro, drawing the sixth post position, is
the second favorite at 4-1 and Preakness winner Shackleford, a
9-2 third choice in the morning line, is on the outside from the
12th gate.  The Belmont, the longest race in the Triple Crown series at
1 1/2 miles (2.4 kilometers), attracted the top seven finishers
in the Derby:  Animal Kingdom , Nehro, Mucho Macho Man,
Shackleford, Master of Hounds, Santiva and Brilliant Speed. An
eighth Belmont horse, Stay Thirsty, also ran in the Derby,
finishing 12th.  An Animal Kingdom victory would add the colt’s name to a
list of 11 other thoroughbreds who won the Derby and Belmont.
The last horse to do it was Thunder Gulch, who missed the 1995
Triple Crown by running third in the Preakness.  Trainer Graham Motion said Animal Kingdom lagged too far
behind the front runners in the Preakness, failing to make up
enough ground to overtake Shackleford at the finish line.  “He’s never been a quick horse out of the gate,” Motion
said during a televised interview. “He took a lot of dirt in
the face.”  Animal Kingdom, whose first race on a dirt track was in the
Derby at Churchill Downs in Louisville, Kentucky, last month,
has become more accustomed to the footing, Motion said.  Barry Irwin, a spokesman for Animal Kingdom’s ownership
group, said the colt might return to the turf in preparation for
the  Breeders’ Cup Classic , the richest race in  North America .
The Classic is set for Nov. 5 at Churchill Downs.  “He has been bred to be a turf horse,” Irwin said.
“We’ll look for the easiest races coming up to the Classic.”  Shackleford set the pace for the Preakness and trainer Dale
Romans said he expects his horse to be on the lead again.  “He’s one of the few horses I see improve with every
single race,” Romans said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  