-- 
Deutsche Bank Unites Derivatives Trades as Swaps Oversight Looms

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-06-08T11:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/deutsche-bank-unites-derivatives-trades-as-swaps-oversight-looms.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  is consolidating
trading and processing services for listed and over-the-counter
derivatives before U.S. and European regulations take effect.  The Dodd-Frank Act financial overhaul required swaps that
are to be processed by clearinghouses to be routed through the
part of a bank that handles futures transactions, forcing the
dealers who dominate the market to reorganize. Futures contracts
by law must be traded on an exchange and cleared.  Congress mandated the clearinghouse requirement after over-
the-counter derivatives contributed to and complicated efforts
to resolve the financial crisis. The European Union last month
moved closer to adopting a clearing mandate for most interest-
rate, credit-default and other swaps.  The new Deutsche Bank unit will be called Markets Clearing
and will offer customers access to interest rate, foreign
exchange, credit, commodities and equities contracts, said Jon Hitchon, who will head the Frankfurt-based bank’s service.
Deutsche Bank previously offered separate execution and post-
trade services by asset class, such as in interest rates, he
said.  “Effectively, you’re starting to knit together a series of
platforms to present to a client,” he said in a telephone
interview. “It’s very much going to be geared to institutional
clients and  hedge funds ” that are active in futures, options,
swaps and cash markets, said Hitchon, who was previously co-head
of global prime finance at  Germany ’s largest bank.  Goldman’s Service  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  created its Derivatives Clearing
Service last July to combine futures and swaps operations in one
unit. The bank is one of five in the U.S. that dominate the
derivatives business, according to data compiled by the Office
of the Comptroller of the Currency.  U.S. regulators at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
and Securities and Exchange Commission are now writing rules to
comply with Dodd-Frank that will lessen risk and increase price
transparency. Final versions should be published by the end of
the year, CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said last week.  For swaps trades that a clearinghouse must process, Markets
Clearing is connected to LCH.Clearnet Ltd., Intercontinental
Exchange Inc.,  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and International Derivatives
Clearing Group LLC, Hitchon said.  Clearinghouses , which are capitalized by their members, are
meant to reduce systemic risk by absorbing and sharing
responsibility if a member defaults on its payment obligations.
They use daily margin calls to keep accounts current and provide
regulators with access to prices and positions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 