-- 
Deutsche Bank Towers Get Loan From Allianz for a Sale and Leaseback Deal

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-06-08T09:05:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/deutsche-bank-towers-get-financing-from-allianz-for-a-sale-and-leaseback.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s two-tower
headquarters in Frankfurt received a loan from an  Allianz SE (ALV) 
unit as the German bank’s DWS division seeks to raise money from
retail investors for a fund that manages the landmark building.  Allianz Real Estate provided a loan of 315 million euros
($462 million), its first such commercial real-estate financing
in  Germany , for the DWS Access Deutsche Bank Tuerme fund,
spokesman Roland Deger said today. DWS, the mutual funds unit of
Deutsche Bank, started marketing the closed-end fund to
investors this week to raise equity of 350.7 million euros,
according to DWS spokesman Claus Gruber and the prospectus for
the transaction.  Deutsche Bank, Germany’s biggest lender, said in March it
agreed to sell and lease back its two towers to a fund run by
DWS for about 600 million euros. The German lender spent three
years renovating the iconic glass towers, known as “Soll &
Haben,” or debit and credit, to reduce energy use and carbon-
dioxide emissions, and moved 2,800 people back into them in
February.  Banco Santander SA,  Spain ’s biggest bank, and HSBC Holdings
Plc,  Europe ’s largest bank by market value, have sold their head
offices and leased them back in the past three years. Deutsche
Bank plans to lease the buildings for 15 years and has an option
to extend the tenancy by another five years, according to the
prospectus. to extend another five years, according to the
prospectus. The German lender’s headquarters have been located
in the buildings in central Frankfurt for more than 25 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 