-- 
Diamond, Bryson and the Ever-Nastier Senate: Stephen L. Carter

-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 
2011-06-08T19:50:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/diamond-bryson-and-the-ever-nastier-senate-stephen-l-carter.html
A few years ago, a friend asked me
over lunch whether I knew of any “dirt” -- his word -- on a
person who had recently been nominated to a post requiring
Senate confirmation. The “groups,” he said, had decided to
oppose the appointment, and were trolling for information. In
other words, a smear campaign was coming.  This tale comes to mind after economist  Peter Diamond ’s
dramatic and angry withdrawal of his candidacy for a post on the
Board of Governors of the  Federal Reserve , and the looming
battle over the nomination of John Bryson to serve as secretary
of commerce.  Diamond, who last year was awarded the Nobel Memorial Prize
in Economic Science, was opposed by Republicans led by Senator
 Richard Shelby  of  Alabama . Although Shelby claimed this was
because Diamond had too little experience and that he couldn’t
back “monetary policy decisions made by board members who are
learning on the job,” the real aim was to turn his confirmation
process into a referendum on President Barack Obama’s economic
policies.  In Bryson’s case, it isn’t his expertise that is under fire
-- he ran a giant California utility,  Edison International (EIX)  --
but his role as a co-founder of the  Natural Resources Defense
Council , which has stirred opposition even among some Democrats.
Senate Republicans have promised not to allow a vote on the
nomination until Obama submits for congressional approval the
pending free-trade agreements with  Panama ,  Colombia  and  South
Korea .  Unfair and Traditional  None of this is particularly fair to Diamond or Bryson.
Still, the clamor of outrage among their supporters is, to say
the least, ahistorical. What is happening today is no different
from what has happened to nominees over the past half century or
so. Or what has happened, at least, when politicians and
interest groups have spotted opportunities to use a confirmation
fight for political advantage.  We are so accustomed to vicious and distorted attacks on
nominees for judicial office that we might easily forget that
others, too, can find themselves caught up in unexpected and
nasty tussles. One need only recall the treatment of Lani Guinier, President  Bill Clinton ’s initial nominee to lead the
Civil Rights Division of the  Justice Department , whose opponents
distorted her scholarship beyond recognition.  The Gates Case  Or consider  Robert Gates , the outgoing secretary of
defense. He was selected by President  Ronald Reagan  to run the
Central Intelligence Agency in 1987, but the nomination was
withdrawn when Democrats protested his alleged involvement in
the Iran-Contra scandal. (The actual accusation was that Gates
had known more about the affair than he told investigators, but
the independent counsel wound up not pursuing the matter, and
Gates finally got the job in the administration of  George H.W.
Bush ).  And, speaking of the CIA, one might also recall Theodore
Sorensen, who was nominated in 1977 to head the agency but
withdrew his nomination after accusations that he was a
pacifist. Indeed, although only a handful of executive branch
nominations are actually defeated, the number generating
controversy rises steadily.  Democrats think only Republicans behave this way, and
Republicans think the same about Democrats. The truth is,
everybody does it, and with increasing frequency. Diamond was
the 20th of Obama’s executive branch nominations to have been
withdrawn.  Opportunities to Communicate  Political scientists suggest that senators use high-profile
nomination battles as opportunities to communicate their own
views to their constituents and to the interest groups so
necessary to election. Now that the Internet has made organizing
easier and has coupled elected officials more tightly to the
interest groups that monitor their every word, the number of
nominations that generate controversy is bound to increase.  One reason the attacks on nominees are so strident is to
overcome the presumption that the president is entitled to “his
own team.” But that presumption is a myth. The Founders
envisioned a heavy Senate role in appointments.  Alexander
Hamilton  suggested in “The Federalist” that the requirement of
confirmation would, among other things, keep the president from
filling the executive branch with those who were “in some way
or other personally allied to him.”  Complexity Added Animosity  Indeed, one reason that there were scarcely any squabbles
over cabinet members for the first 90 years of the republic is
that the presidents consulted closely with leading senators in
deciding whom to appoint.  The tradition began to decline as governing grew more
complex, and was thrown over entirely during the presidency of
Rutherford B. Hayes. Part of the problem was that executive
appointments had become part of the spoils system for powerful
senators. But, as so often, we tossed out the baby with the bath
water. Determined to end the corruption, Hayes forced his
appointments down the Senate’s collective throat. Thus Hayes,
known to history for the infamous bargain that bought the
presidency at the cost of ending Reconstruction, also largely
subdued the Senate as a serious partner in the appointments
process.  Since that time, presidents have worked hard to keep their
executive appointments away from serious Senate scrutiny. One
way to do that is to make recess appointments, intended by the
Founders to tide the nation over when the Senate happens not to
be in session. Nowadays, presidents use this dodge to get people
into slots the Senate might not let them have. Obama has made
almost 30 recess appointments in his first two years in office,
not an unusually high number -- unless your baseline is the way
the constitutional system of checks and balances is supposed to
work.  Yielding to Temptation  Given the ever-greater likelihood that executive branch and
agency nominees will run into trouble, it is easy to see why
presidents yield to the temptation to thwart the system: They
know Congress will never punish them for it.  The confirmation process may not be fixable. In the
nation’s early days, the Senate had to approve fewer than a
dozen of the president’s aides. Today, more than 500 executive
branch posts require Senate confirmation. With politicians,
interest groups, journalists and bloggers engaged in the
constant quest for advantage, some nominees will always become
objects of controversy. There are too many contested issues, too
many flashpoints, and -- most important -- too many
constituencies demanding constant signals that their particular
concerns are uppermost in the minds of their elected officials.  Many reforms have been suggested. Congress is considering a
significant reduction in the number of positions requiring
confirmation, an increased centralization of power in the
executive that would have appalled the Founders and should
appall us, too.  A Shrinking Solution  A rarely mentioned possibility is to shrink by a
significant amount the size and scope of the federal government.
A smaller executive branch would mean less need for Senate
confirmation.  Indeed, the steady rise of confirmation fights in
the years after World War II predictably tracks the steady rise
of federal agencies. Yet significant shrinkage seems politically
unlikely -- every agency lives symbiotically with several well-
organized interest groups.  Yes, it would be lovely if grasping interest groups would
stop digging for dirt and hungry politicians would stop
grandstanding, but democracy is rarely lovely. Democracy is
clamorous and disputatious. The more distant people feel from
those who govern them, the louder their clamor to be heard. The
clamor doesn’t necessarily lead to right answers or wise
decisions; but democracy is mostly process, not result.  Those loud voices -- those out-of-context sound bites,
those sudden savagings of the reputations of the innocent --
have always been part of our democracy. It is ugly and painful
and often unfair to the innocent. It is also the American way;
and with a federal government so vast, and interest groups so
diverse, and the battle for news coverage so intense, it is
likely to get worse.  (Stephen L. Carter, a professor of law at Yale, is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:  stephen.carter@yale.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Tobin Harshaw
at  tharshaw@bloomberg.net  