-- 
Dingell to Ask EPA to Extend Comment Time on Clean-Air Rule

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-06-08T18:25:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/dingell-to-ask-epa-to-extend-comment-time-on-clean-air-rule-1-.html
U.S. Representative John Dingell, a
 Michigan  Democrat, will ask the  Environmental Protection Agency 
to extend the comment period for a clean-air rule designed to
cut mercury and other toxic emissions.  Dingell, a former chairman of the House Energy Committee,
is circulating a letter among lawmakers that asks EPA to give
utilities, manufacturers, environmental groups and other
interests 120 days to comment, double the current schedule.  Coal-dependent utilities such as American Electric Power
Co. have said the proposed rule would raise electricity prices
and cost jobs. Dingell plans to send the letter to EPA
Administrator Lisa Jackson next week. It doesn’t ask to delay
the rule, which a court has said must be released in November.  The clean-air rule may have “wide-reaching impacts on the
way our country generates and consumes electricity,” according
to the letter. “Such a dense and wide-ranging rulemaking
requires thorough analysis and evaluation by stakeholders.”  The rule would require cuts to emissions of mercury, which
can hinder the neurological development of children, and other
toxins. The agency has said its rule will prevent as many as
17,000 premature deaths and 11,000 heart attacks at an annual
cost to industry of about $10.9 billion. The EPA estimates the
rules will yield up to $140 billion in health benefits.  While reducing emissions will improve public health and the
environment, “we also must be mindful of the economic impact
new regulations could have, especially with the complexity and
breadth of applicability for this proposed rule being so
significant,” Dingell wrote in the letter.  ‘Economic Implications’  Dingell will join Republican Representatives Fred Upton of
Michigan and Ed Whitfield of  Kentucky  and Senator James Inhofe
of  Oklahoma  in seeking to extend the time for comments.  The rule has “major electric reliability and economic
implications for the nation,” Upton, chairman of the Energy and
Commerce Committee, and the Republicans wrote in a May 17
letter. They are seeking a comment period of at least 120 days.  The EPA estimates less than 1 percent of coal-fired  power
plants  production capacity would close as a result of its rule.  The American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity, an
Alexandria, Virginia-based group that backs policies promoting
coal, released a report that found as much as 47.8 gigawatts of
electricity, about 15 percent of coal’s U.S. production
capacity, may close prematurely because of the mercury rule and
a separate regulation designed to cut emissions of sulfur
dioxide and nitrogen oxides, which cause smog and acid rain.  ‘Common-Senate’ Rules  In response to the coalition’s report,  Brendan Gilfillan ,
an EPA spokesman, said the agency was working with utilities and
other interested groups to ensure its clean-air rules were
“reasonable, common-sense and achievable.”  “More than half of all coal-fired power plants already
deploy the widely available pollution control technologies that
allow them to meet these important standards,” Gilfillan said
in an e-mail.  Daniel Weiss, senior fellow at the  Center for American
Progress , a Washington-based group that says it supports
progressive public policies, said the EPA should reject calls to
extend its comment period.  “There has been ample time to review and analyze this
proposal,” Weiss said. EPA first said it would regulate mercury
emissions in 2000. The delay was sought by “big utilities and
big coal companies” to organize opposition to the rule, Weiss
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  