-- 
Yen Rises as U.S. Growth Concern, Euro Region Debt Issues Bolster Demand

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-06-08T21:15:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/dollar-near-month-low-versus-yen-on-prospects-fed-will-maintain-stimulus.html
The yen strengthened against all its
16 most-traded counterparts as concern about slower U.S. growth
and about how European leaders will deal with the region’s debt
crisis boosted demand for refuge currencies.  The Australia dollar, Norwegian krone and South African
rand declined versus the dollar as reports from  Federal
Reserve ’s district banks showed the economy expanded at a
“steady pace” and slowed in four of 12 regions. The euro slid
from a one-month high versus the greenback after German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said bondholders must contribute a
“substantial” share of a second aid package for Greece.  “The yen is up from a risk-aversion standpoint,” said
 Greg Salvaggio , senior vice president of capital markets at
currency-trading firm Tempus Consulting Inc. in  Washington . “If
you look last week, debt restructuring in Greece was not
possible. Now they are putting back on the table the possibility
of restructuring and it’s creating a level of uncertainty in the
market.”  The yen appreciated 0.3 percent to 79.89 per dollar at 5
p.m. in  New York , from 80.09 yesterday, after touching 79.70,
the strongest level since May 5. It strengthened 1 percent to
116.51 per euro, from 117.67.  The euro declined 0.7 percent to $1.4583 from $1.4691
yesterday, when it reached $1.4697, the strongest since May 5.  Relative Strength  The yen tends to strengthen during economic and financial
turmoil because  Japan ’s historic trade surpluses makes it less
reliant on foreign capital. The seven-day relative strength
index for the dollar versus the yen dropped to 24.78, the lowest
level since May 5. A reading below 30 signals an asset may be
due for a rebound.  The yen rose for a sixth day against the dollar as Fed
officials expressed concern over the world’s largest economy.  “The economy is still producing at levels well below its
potential; consequently, accommodative monetary policies are
still needed,” Bernanke said in a speech in Atlanta yesterday.
At the same time, the Fed “will take whatever actions are
necessary to keep inflation well controlled,” he said.  Reports from the Fed “indicated that economic activity
generally continued to expand since the last report, though a
few districts indicated some deceleration,” the central bank
said today in its Beige Book survey of the economy in
Washington.  Yen Monitor  Japan’s Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told reporters in
 Tokyo  yesterday he would closely monitor the yen’s appreciation
while conceding that the market’s view on the  U.S. economy  was
likely behind its moves.  Group of Seven countries jointly intervened in March after
Japan’s currency soared to 76.25, its highest level since World
War II, threatening the nation’s recovery from the March 11
earthquake and tsunami. The total size of the G-7 intervention
has been estimated at about $25 billion.  “Our view is the  Bank of Japan  will remain at bay, but
there might be some sort of verbal intervention,” said  Mary Nicola , a New York-based currency strategist at BNP Parisbas SA.
“79.50, 79.00 are the important areas in dollar-yen.”  The Australian dollar and Norwegian krone were the two
worst performers against the dollar today as lingering concerns
over the U.S. economy damped demand for growth-sensitive
currencies.  Aussie Drop  Australia ’s dollar fell to $1.0623 from $1.0721 yesterday.
The Aussie dropped to 84.88 yen from 85.87.  Norway’s krone fell 1.2 percent to 5.4027 per dollar and
declined 0.4 percent to 7.8799 versus the euro.  The pound fell against the dollar and the euro after
Moody’s Investors Service said the U.K. risks losing its top
credit ranking should growth remain weak. It said the outlook on
the country’s rating is “stable.” Sterling dropped 0.3 percent
against the dollar to $1.6403.  “Slower growth combined with weaker-than-expected fiscal
consolidation efforts could cause the U.K.’s debt metrics to
deteriorate to a point where we would reconsider our stance,”
Francesco Meucci, a Moody’s spokesman, said in a phone interview
from Paris.  The measures attached to the IMF loan to  Portugal  “may
fail to alleviate sovereign debt concerns, with an adverse
impact on government financing prospects,” the agency’s staff
wrote in a May 17 report that was posted on the fund’s website
yesterday. The IMF approved the loan to Portugal on May 20 as
part of a joint 78-billion euro bailout with the European Union
in the latest effort to stem the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Schaeuble told European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and fellow euro finance ministers in a June 6 letter
that maturities on Greek bonds should be extended seven years.  Any agreement on aid at a ministers’ meeting on June 20
“has to include a clear mandate -- given to  Greece  possibly
together with the IMF -- to initiate the process of involving
holders of Greek bonds,” Schaeuble wrote in the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  