-- 
Domestic Demands Spur Calls for U.S. Drawdown from Afghanistan

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-06-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/domestic-demands-clash-with-u-s-policy-on-afghanistan-correct-.html
U.S. lawmakers yesterday questioned
the role of the U.S. in  Afghanistan , pushing for a significant
troop reduction even as the Obama administration emphasizes the
need to maintain a strong presence in the country.  The chasm between the two branches of government was clear
at the confirmation hearing for Ryan Crocker, President  Barack Obama ’s nominee for ambassador to Afghanistan. Tension between
foreign policy priorities and domestic demands is increasing asObama prepares to announce an initial troop drawdown next month.
The president has pledged to fully transfer security
responsibility to the Afghan government by 2014.  Concern over the rising U.S. debt has driven the
congressional drumbeat for a significant pullout. Those calls
have grown since the killing last month of al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden in  Pakistan  and were amplified with the release
yesterday of a report by the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee 
report that almost $19 billion in U.S. aid to Afghanistan may
have undermined the government and promoted corruption.  “We’re expecting pretty dramatic changes at the end of
this fighting season,” said Tennessee Republican Senator Robert Corker, a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee,
which met with Crocker yesterday. “All of us know the model we
have in Afghanistan is not sustainable for multiple reasons.
There’s a great degree -- it’s not impatience -- there’s a great
degree of us knowing this is not sustainable.”  Back to Kabul  Crocker, 61, is being called back to duty as a diplomat
from his position as dean of the Bush School of Government and
Public Service at  Texas  A&M University in  College Station ,
Texas. Before his retirement from the Foreign Service in 2009,
the Spokane, Washington, native in 2002 re-opened the U.S.
embassy in Afghanistan, which had been closed since 1989. He
also was ambassador to Pakistan from 2004 to 2007 and ambassador
to  Iraq  from 2007 to 2009.  The Obama administration has said repeatedly that national
security requires a U.S. presence in Afghanistan. In a separate
hearing on  Capitol Hill  yesterday, FBI Director Robert Mueller
told lawmakers that early assessments from intelligence gathered
at bin Laden’s Pakistan compound shows that al-Qaeda remains
committed to attacking the U.S.  A Washington Post-ABC News poll conducted June 2-5 found
that 73 percent of those surveyed favor a withdrawal of U.S.
troops from Afghanistan this summer, compared with 23 percent
who don’t.  While the White House has said that a troop drawdown will
depend on conditions on the ground, lawmakers with anxious
constituents are seeking more definitive answers.  ‘Messy Situation’  “This is a messy situation that isn’t getting any
better,” Senator James Risch, an Idaho Republican, told
Crocker. “Since I’ve been elected, people back home keep asking
me, what’s going to happen, how’s this going to end?”  The chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, Democratic
Senator  John Kerry  of  Massachusetts , cautioned that the U.S. has
to consider the costs versus the benefits of its involvement, a
recurring theme among members of his party. “Our current
commitment in troops and in dollars is neither proportional to
our interests nor sustainable,” Kerry said.  In a June 3 interview, Democratic Representative  Barney Frank  of Massachusetts said recent House support for resolutions
that curtail involvement in Libya and Afghanistan reflect
concern over the cost of the U.S. military missions. “There is
an increasing recognition that reducing military expenditures is
essential to overall  deficit reduction ,” Frank said.  War Costs  Six in 10 Americans say the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan
have contributed a “great deal” to the national debt,
according to a poll released June 7 by the independent  Pew
Research Center  in  Washington . The wars were cited more than
other specific factors, such as the condition of the national
economy (42 percent), increased domestic spending (24 percent)
and tax cuts over the past 10 years (19 percent) in the poll
taken May 25-30.  Among liberal Democrats, eight in 10 cited wars as
contributing a “great deal” to the debt, Pew said, while that
view is held by just under half of conservative Republicans.  In fact, the largest factors underlying the growth of the
deficit since 2001 have been tax cuts, domestic spending and the
recession, with war costs ranked fourth, according to the  Center
on Budget and Policy Priorities , a research group in Washington
that used data from the  Congressional Budget Office  in its
analysis.  Senator  Jim Webb , a Virginia Democrat and former Reagan
administration defense official, invoked President  Ronald Reagan ’s speech writer Peggy Noonan yesterday, telling Crocker
that “if there’s any country in the world that needs nation-
building, it’s the  United States .”  Kerry suggested that bin Laden’s death, “our principal
reason for being in Afghanistan in the first place,” gives the
U.S. an opportunity to recalibrate its policy.  ‘Much Work Remains’  Crocker directly rebutted that point. While bin Laden’s
death was an “important step” toward the core objective of
disrupting, dismantling and defeating al-Qaeda, “much work
remains to be done to ensure” that the militant group “can
never again threaten us from Afghanistan with the Taliban
providing safe haven,” the diplomat said.  The Obama administration is intent on avoiding a repeat of
the swift U.S. departure from the region in 1989, once the
 Soviet Union  had been defeated in Afghanistan. The power vacuum
left behind allowed militants to flourish.  In a policy speech in February, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  declared that “the United States is not walking away
from the region. We will not repeat the mistakes of the past.
Our commitment is real and it is enduring.”  ‘Fragile and Reversible’  Crocker picked up that refrain and outlined the risks of
leaving the region precipitously again. “Progress is still
fragile and reversible,” he told the committee.  Remaining challenges include governance and rule of law;
 corruption  that undermines economic growth and the credibility
of the Afghan state; the drug trade; sustainable economic
development and  job creation , as well as the government’s
ability to provide basic services like health care and
education, Crocker said.  “Failure in some of these areas can mean failure of the
state and the creation of an environment in which our strategic
enemies can regroup,” he warned senators. “Making progress on
these issues has been hard, and it will go on being hard. But
hard does not mean hopeless.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  