-- 
Draghi Vows Pragmatism as ECB President, Seeks Gradual Exit

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-06-08T14:50:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/draghi-vows-pragmatism-as-ecb-president-seeks-gradual-increases-in-rates.html
Italy ’s  Mario Draghi  said he will
pursue a policy of “gradualism” in lifting European Central
Bank interest rates and rolling back emergency liquidity
measures as the euro-area economy grapples with a debt crisis.  Draghi, the nominee for ECB president, promised the same
“healthy dose of pragmatism” that is the hallmark of the
bank’s current leader,  Jean-Claude Trichet , who navigated the
initial stages of the Greece-led debt shock.  “The continued high degree of uncertainty on the
macroeconomic and financial environment together with remaining
vulnerabilities requires a careful assessment of the overall
situation and outlook,” Draghi said in a  written response  to
European Parliament questions. “This in turn warrants an
element of gradualism in changing standard and non-standard
 monetary policy .”  All 51 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast the
ECB will leave its main interest rate at 1.25 percent when
policy makers meet in Frankfurt tomorrow. Expectations are
mounting that it will nudge rates up in July, trying to cap
inflation without further damaging southern Europe’s depressed
economies.  “Draghi’s remarks are pretty dovish and much more cautious
than recent comments of other ECB council members,” said
 Juergen Michels , chief euro-region economist at Citigroup in
 London . “However, ‘gradualism’ may still mean that we can
expect more rate hikes after July.”  Full Respect  Draghi, currently head of Italy’s central bank, faces a
confirmation hearing in the parliament’s economic and monetary
committee on June 14. He is slated to take over from Trichet for
an eight-year term on Nov. 1.  Armed with a doctorate in economics from the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology , Draghi, 63, has also run Italy’s
Treasury and was his country’s chief negotiator of the treaty
that established the euro. Stints at the  World Bank  and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  punctuated his career.  Draghi backed the ECB’s handling of the economy and debt
crisis, saying he won’t change the way the bank has conducted
monetary policy since the euro’s debut in 1999.  Commodity Prices  Draghi said he is alert to the risk that higher oil and raw
material prices may feed through to inflation, which eased to
2.7 percent in May from 2.8 percent in April. It remained above
the ECB’s 2 percent limit.  “Monetary policy needs to avoid that temporary increases
in inflation lead to the emergence of second-round effects in
the wage and price-setting behavior,” Draghi wrote.  While promising to “fully respect” the ECB’s principal
goal of stemming inflation, saying that is the best way to
promote growth, the 33-page written testimony was tinged with
the need to remain flexible amid “the permanently evolving
financial and economic environment.”  Draghi’s tone contrasted with that of an earlier German
contender for the ECB post,  Axel Weber , a self-confessed non-
diplomat who opposed the bank’s policy of buying the bonds of
fiscally distressed states. Weber dropped out of the running in
February.  Draghi said the bank’s purchases of 75 billion euros ($110
billion) of bonds don’t pose an inflation risk, stuck to
Trichet’s opposition to a restructuring of Greek debt and echoed
ECB calls for more automatic sanctions on high-deficit
countries.  No Default  “A restructuring in a euro-area member state poses a
significant risk of destabilizing the financial system, with
severe consequences for the growth outlook of the euro area,”
Draghi wrote. “Significant spillover effects on other euro-area
countries cannot be excluded.”  Echoing Trichet’s regular exhortations, Draghi called the
debt crisis “a real test for the political will in  Europe  to do
whatever is needed to ensure the achievements of economic and
monetary integration.”  Draghi sided with  Germany  in opposing joint bond issuance
in the 17-nation euro area, saying Eurobonds would represent an
“implicit subsidy from fiscally sound to fiscally less sound
member states.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  