-- 
Drugmakers Seek China Deals Amid ‘Explosive Growth,’ KPMG Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-08T07:45:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/drugmakers-seek-china-deals-amid-explosive-growth-kpmg-says.html
China ’s drug market is primed for
“explosive growth,” making companies there attractive targets
for drugmakers that will soon lose patents on their most popular
treatments, according to  KPMG  LLP.  Products worth more than $30 billion will lose patent cover
this year, leading more drugmakers to look into buying or
joining with companies in China, the world’s third biggest drug
market, according to a KPMG report released Wednesday.  The report said that large pharmaceutical companies are
turning away from traditional mergers that boost margins and
reduce costs, and are looking for unconventional acquisitions
such as firms that have unique uses for drugs, according to the
report.  “The pharmaceutical market will experience explosive
growth in the coming years,” KPMG said, adding that the
expansion would be fueled by rapid environmental, economic and
social changes that follow urbanization. “The industry now
feels there is a better business model in zeroing in on the end
customer rather than on bulk manufacturers of generics.”  As an example, KPMG mentioned Nasdaq-listed SciClone
Pharmaceuticals’ purchase of  NovaMed Pharmaceuticals Inc.,  a
China-based specialty company, in April 2011. NovaMed has a
portfolio of 18 drug products spanning major therapeutic areas
including oncology, cardiovascular disease and central nervous
system disorders.  25 percent Growth  China’s pharmaceutical market is predicted to grow at least
25 percent this year, according to U.S. based research firm IMS
Health.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  on June 3 unveiled plans for a potential joint
venture with Zhejiang Hisun Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. to produce
branded and low-cost generics, as it seeks revenue sources
before it loses U.S. patent protection in November for Lipitor,
the cholesterol medication that was the world’s best-selling
drug last year with $10.7 billion in sales.  KPMG also said that foreign companies investing in China
risk running afoul of new Chinese laws, such as the 2008 PRC
Anti-Monopoly Law, as well as other laws such as the US Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the recently enacted UK Bribery
Act (UKBA).  Compliance can be difficult in China due to a lack of
transparency in business transactions and less than complete
business records to support corporate payments, KPMG said.  “It becomes even more murky and ambiguous in the
healthcare, medical device, and pharmaceutical sectors given the
significant use of distributors, agents, and other third-
parties,” the report said.  The law may see those groups as part of the company, but
they don’t typically “have the internal controls in place to
adequately maintain their own books and records,” KPMG said.  --Daryl Loo. Editors: Nicholas Wadhams, Alan Soughley  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7540
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net  