-- 
Dudley Says U.S. Must Curb Deficit Without Derailing Recovery

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-06-08T00:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/dudley-says-u-s-must-curb-deficit-without-derailing-recovery.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
President William C. Dudley said the U.S. must reduce the
federal  budget deficit  without derailing the economic recovery.  “No issue is more important than a credible commitment for
getting our fiscal house in order, but at a pace that does not
forestall a sustained recovery,” Dudley, 58, said in the text
of remarks given to the Foreign Policy Association in New York.
“If we do not act voluntarily and preemptively, the market will
inevitably force the outcome later -- most likely in a much more
difficult and messy fashion.”  To sustain economic growth in the long term, the nation
must rebalance its economy away from  consumer spending  toward
exports and investment, Dudley said. In turn, emerging market
economies, particularly  China , should allow their currencies to
appreciate and alter their “growth strategies that rely on
excessive consumption elsewhere,” he said.  China, the world’s second-largest economy, has relied on
exports to drive economic growth. To keep its currency cheap and
boost overseas sales, China accumulated $3.04 trillion of
foreign-currency reserves as of March, an increase of 24 percent
over a year earlier.  “We would all be better off if the system evolved toward
more flexible exchange rates and greater monetary independence”
in emerging-market economies, Dudley said. “The current
relationships in terms of capital flows and composition of
growth are not likely to prove sustainable on a long-term
basis.”  The U.S. economy’s recovery from the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression is “distinctly subpar” despite
“aggressive monetary and fiscal stimulus,” Dudley said.  ‘High Teens’  China won’t be able to maintain annual export growth “in
the high teens,” and its economy’s rapid growth threatens to
result in “overheating,” he said.  The Fed is “ever mindful” of the impact its policy
decisions have on the rest of the world and seeks to support the
value of the dollar, Dudley said. Its decision to embark on a
second round of asset purchases last year reduced the risk of
deflation in the U.S., which “would have been very damaging”
to the global economy.  “The  Federal Reserve  is fully committed to keeping
inflation in check and maintaining the purchasing power of the
dollar,” he said.  Growth in countries such as China and  India  has been the
“principal driver” in the surge in commodity prices in recent
years, Dudley said. He echoed remarks given by Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke today that the rise in such prices will probably
slow.  “Commodity prices will not continue to increase at the
explosive rate of recent months,” Dudley said. “Households and
businesses will adjust their activities in response to higher
prices, and there will be a supply response to higher prices
that will gradually build over time.”  The Fed has sought to spur economic growth through record
stimulus, including expanding its balance sheet to $2.79
trillion and keeping  interest rates  near zero since December
2008. The Federal Open Market Committee plans this month to
complete a $600 billion bond purchase program, and minutes of
its April meeting showed it is considering the tools it could
use to withdraw stimulus. Dudley is the panel’s vice chairman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  