-- 
Dudley Says BP Is Moving On After Failure of Its $7.8 Billion Rosneft Deal

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-06-08T14:42:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/dudley-says-bp-is-moving-on-after-failure-of-its-7-8-billion-rosneft-deal.html
BP Plc (BP/)  is “moving on” after the
collapse of its proposed $7.8 billion share swap and Arctic
exploration deal with OAO Rosneft, Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Dudley  said.  “We’ve worked very hard on this with all the parties,”
Dudley told reporters in London today. “From BP’s view, it’s
other parties that need to reach an agreement and in the
meantime we are moving on.”  The tie-up with state-run Rosneft was halted in court after
BP’s billionaire partners in its existing Russian venture, known
as TNK-BP, argued it would violate their shareholder agreement.  Dudley denied reports that London-based BP notified its
Russian partners of a possible plan to sell its shares in TNK-BP
to Rosneft.  “No notifications have been sent about the sale by any
party and BP is not planning to sell shares in TNK-BP,” he
said.  The January agreement would have helped BP to diversify its
production profile after last year’s Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
The Kara Sea, which BP would have explored with Rosneft, may
hold 100 billion barrels of potential resources, the equivalent
of more than three years of global production.  “The relationship remains excellent with Rosneft,” Dudley
said. “There is a possibility of doing things with them
somewhere around the world in the future.”  Unlikely  Rosneft has been in talks with other international  oil
companies , including Royal Dutch Shell Plc, since the deal broke
down. Russian Energy Minister Sergei Shmatko said that the
“reincarnation for that particular deal” between BP and
 Russia ’s largest oil company is unlikely.  BP’s Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg  held out the hope that
the deal could be rescued in some shape or other.  “We are obviously a favorable partner for Rosneft,”
Svanberg said today. The BP venture with Rosneft “will come out
in some form.”  In the meantime, the U.K. explorer would focus on TNK-BP,
which accounts for about one-quarter of BP’s output and a fifth
of reserves.  BP has invested about $9 billion in TNK-BP and received
about $16 billion in dividends from this “great operation,”
Svanberg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in  London  at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Cunningham at 
 scunningha10@bloomberg.net  