-- 
Health-Care Law Must Stand, Obama Administration Tells Third Appeals Court

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-06-08T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/health-care-law-must-stand-obama-administration-tells-third-appeals-court.html
Lawyers for the Obama administration
are scheduled to ask a third federal appeals court to uphold a
2010 health-care law in what may be the final legal battle over
the statute before it reaches the U.S. Supreme Court.  In oral arguments today, the government will ask a three-
judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in Atlanta to reverse a
lower-court ruling that struck down President  Barack Obama ’s
health-care legislation. Similar panels in Richmond, Virginia,
and Cincinnati have heard challenges to the law over the past
five weeks as individual lawsuits work their way through the
federal courts.  At issue is a provision of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act that requires most Americans to have health
insurance starting in 2014. Opponents argue Congress has
exceeded its power to regulate commerce in mandating consumers
enter the health-care marketplace. In the Atlanta case, the
appeals court will be the first to review a ruling that threw
out the entire act due to the coverage mandate.  “This case is really kind of the national litigation,”
University of Cincinnati law professor A. Christopher Bryant
said in a telephone interview. It’s “the obvious one to go all
the way” to the U.S. Supreme Court.  Twenty-five states joined the lawsuit filed last year by
then-Florida Attorney General  Bill McCollum , a Republican. The
suit, along with a separate case by Virginia Attorney General
Kenneth Cuccinelli, also a Republican, was filed March 23, 2010,
the same day Obama, a Democrat, signed the measure into law.  Party Lines  Decisions by the lower courts have broken entirely along
party lines, with federal judges appointed by Republican
presidents ruling against the law, and those appointed by
Democratic presidents upholding it.  Of the two appeals panels that have heard challenges to the
law so far, the Cincinnati-based court had two Republican
appointees and one Democratic appointee, while the Richmond-
based panel included three judges appointed by a Democrat.  Of the three judges on the Atlanta panel, one was appointed
by Democratic president and two by a Republican.  The health-care act bars insurers from denying coverage to
people who are sick and from imposing lifetime limits on costs.
It also requires almost all Americans over age 18 to obtain
coverage.  The U.S. has said that the mandatory-coverage provision is
the linchpin of the statute because it will add many younger and
healthier people to the pool of the insured population, making
the program viable for insurers.  Act Invalidated  U.S. District Judge C. Roger Vinson in  Pensacola ,  Florida ,
on Jan. 31 found that provision was unconstitutional. Then,
concluding that the mandate was integral to the remainder of the
legislation, he invalidated the entire act.  “Regardless of how laudable its attempts may have been to
accomplish these goals in passing the act, Congress must operate
within the bounds established by the Constitution,” wrote
Vinson, 71, who was appointed to the federal bench by Republican
President  Ronald Reagan  in 1983.  In the immediate aftermath of Vinson’s ruling, officials
from some of the states involved in the litigation, including
Wisconsin and  Alaska , said the act was inoperative in their
states, though they are outside Vinson’s jurisdiction.  Vinson, responding to a U.S. request to clarify his
decision, on March 3 issued a delay of its enforcement, saying
“the sooner this issue is finally decided by the  Supreme Court ,
the better off the entire nation will be.”  ‘Bit of Conflict’  If the act is deemed invalid in some parts of the U.S. and
not others, “that’s quite a bit of conflict,” said Northbrook,
Illinois-based health-care industry attorney Miles Zaremski, a
former chairman of the American Bar Association Special
Committee on Professional Medical Liability and past president
of the  American College of Legal Medicine . “The Supreme Court
will probably want to jump in and take that case.”  The Supreme Court, while favoring appeals on issues where
the intermediate federal courts clash, may still decide to hear
a case even if they are in agreement.  “The mandate is the heart of the legislation,” said
Zaremski, who isn’t involved in the litigation. “If you excise
the heart, the body doesn’t live.”  He added: “The Supreme Court would want to take the case
and make a decision, a final decision so that we can go
forward.”  Vulnerable to Reversal  Bryant, the Cincinnati law school professor, said the sweep
of Vinson’s decision makes it vulnerable to reversal.  “This is such a huge act and there are so many pieces to
it,” he said. “To bring it all down is a dramatic judicial
intervention into politics.”  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Richmond on May 10 heard the
Obama Administration’s challenge to a lower court ruling that
sided with  Virginia  Attorney General Cuccinelli. The U.S.
district court judge struck down the individual mandate as
unconstitutional while leaving the rest of the act standing.  The appeals panel simultaneously heard an appeal by
Lynchburg, Virginia-based Liberty University, which sought to
reverse another judge’s dismissal of its challenge to the law.  “All the cases that are deciding the individual mandate
are basically deciding the same question,” said Georgetown
University law professor Randy Barnett, an attorney for the
 National Federation of Independent Business , a Nashville,
Tennessee-based advocacy group that is a co-plaintiff with the
26 states in the Atlanta case. “If any court strikes the
mandate down, that will be as significant as any other one.”  Opposing the Law  Barnett has filed papers -- so-called friend-of-the-court
briefs -- opposing the law in the Richmond and Cincinnati cases.  A three-judge panel in Cincinnati last week heard arguments
on a bid by the  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based Thomas More Law Center
to reverse a lower court decision upholding the health-care act.  Neither the Cincinnati nor the Richmond appellate courts
have issued rulings in their respective cases.  Hearing the Atlanta case will be Chief U.S. Circuit Judge
Joel F. Dubina, nominated to the federal bench by Reagan in
1986. Sitting with him will be U.S. Circuit Judge Frank M. Hull,
a 1994 nominee of President  Bill Clinton , and U.S. Circuit Judge
Stanley Marcus, who was selected by Reagan in 1985.  Ron Pollack, executive director of the Washington health-
care advocacy group  Families USA , called Vinson’s ruling “an
outlier,” adding, “I don’t think any court will go anywhere
close to the scope of relief he offered.”  Defended Aspects  Pollack’s organization also has filed friend-of-the-court
briefs in each case in which it defended aspects of the Obama
legislation.  Like Barnett, Pollack said the issue of whether Congress
exceeded its legislative powers under the commerce clause is
pivotal for the Atlanta panel and for the other appeals courts.  “The mandate is so integrally related to the funding of
the entire mechanism,” said Zaremski, the health-care industry
lawyer, because it makes it more possible for health insurers to
be able to afford to insure any applicant, as they must do under
the act.  “If the mandate is unconstitutional, the rest of the act
can’t survive,” he said. “Without the mandate, the  insurance
industry  would say, ‘we can’t afford to do this.’”  The case is State of Florida v.  U.S. Department of Health 
and Human Services, 11-11021, U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Eleventh Circuit (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris at the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for
the Eleventh Circuit in Atlanta at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 