-- 
Obama’s Health-Care Statute Must Stand, U.S. Says in Third Appeal Argument

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n
-- 
2011-06-08T19:19:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/health-care-law-must-stand-u-s-tells-third-appeals-court-in-atlanta.html
Lawyers for the Obama administration
asked a third federal appeals court to uphold a 2010 health-care
law in what may be the final legal battle over the statute
before it reaches the U.S. Supreme Court.  In oral arguments today, the government asked a three-judge
panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in Atlanta to reverse a
lower-court ruling that struck down President  Barack Obama ’s
health-care legislation. Similar panels in Richmond, Virginia,
and Cincinnati heard challenges to the law over the past five
weeks as lawsuits work their way through federal courts.  At issue is a provision of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act that requires most Americans to have health
insurance starting in 2014. Opponents argue Congress exceeded
its power to regulate interstate commerce in mandating that
consumers enter the health-care marketplace. The Atlanta appeals
court is the first to review a ruling that discarded the entire
act due to the coverage mandate.  “The most difficult issue in the case is the individual
mandate,” Chief Judge Joel Dubina said at the beginning of
today’s session.  A suit filed last year by  Bill McCollum  when he was Florida
attorney general was joined by 25 states. The suit, along with a
separate case by Virginia Attorney General Kenneth Cuccinelli,
like McCollum a Republican, was filed March 23, 2010, the same
day Obama, a Democrat, signed the measure into law.  ‘Consuming the Goods’  “The question you have before you is that everyone is
consuming the goods, it’s about failure to pay,” Acting U.S.
Solicitor General Neal Katyal told the panel today.  “The Commerce Clause only gives Congress the power to
regulate, not to compel,” states’ attorney Paul D. Clement, a
solicitor general under President  George W. Bush , told the court
later.  The solicitor general is the  Justice Department ’s top
courtroom attorney. Before today’s arguments, Katyal and Clement
greeted each other with hugs in the courtroom.  Katyal told judges Dubina, Frank M. Hull and Stanley Marcus
that no previous case addressed the questions before the court.
Asked by the panel whether there were any limits on Congress’s
power to regulate commerce under the U.S. Constitution, he said
there were, without specifying.  Decisions by the lower courts have broken entirely along
party lines, with federal judges appointed by Republican
presidents ruling against the law and those appointed by
Democrats upholding it.  Presidential Appointments  Of the two appeals panels that have heard challenges to the
law so far, the Cincinnati-based court had two Republican
appointees and one Democratic appointee, and the Richmond-based
panel had three judges appointed by Democrats.  The Atlanta court’s Dubina was nominated to the federal
bench by President  Ronald Reagan  in 1986. Hull is a 1994 nominee
of President  Bill Clinton , and Marcus was named by Reagan in
1985.  The health-care act bars insurers from denying coverage to
people who are sick and from imposing lifetime limits on costs.
It requires almost all Americans 18 and over to obtain coverage.  The U.S. has called the mandatory-coverage provision the
linchpin of the statute because it will add younger and
healthier people to the pool of the insured population, making
the program viable for insurers.  In the case argued today, U.S. District Judge C. Roger Vinson in  Pensacola ,  Florida , on Jan. 31 found that provision
was unconstitutional. Saying the mandate was integral to the
remainder of the legislation, he invalidated the entire act.  Bound by Constitution  “Regardless of how laudable its attempts may have been to
accomplish these goals in passing the act, Congress must operate
within the bounds established by the Constitution,” wrote
Vinson, 71, who was appointed by Reagan in 1983.  Immediately after Vinson’s ruling, officials from some
states involved in the litigation, including Wisconsin and
 Alaska , said the act was inoperative in their states, which are
outside Vinson’s jurisdiction.  Vinson on March 3 delayed enforcement of his ruling, saying
“the sooner this issue is finally decided by the  Supreme Court ,
the better off the entire nation will be.”  If the act is deemed invalid in some parts of the U.S. and
not others, “that’s quite a bit of conflict,” said Miles Zaremski, a Northbrook, Illinois-based health-care industry
attorney. “The Supreme Court will probably want to jump in and
take that case.”  Ex-Chairman  Zaremski is a former chairman of an American Bar
Association Special Committee on Professional Medical Liability
and a past president of the  American College of Legal Medicine .  The Supreme Court, while favoring appeals on issues where
the regional appeals courts reach different results, might
decide to hear the case even if the intermediate panels agree
with one another.  “The mandate is the heart of the legislation,” said
Zaremski, who isn’t involved in the litigation. “If you excise
the heart, the body doesn’t live.”  He added: “The Supreme Court would want to take the case
and make a decision, a final decision, so that we can go
forward.”  The judges today questioned Katyal about the government’s
legal position and frequently interrupted Clement’s argument as
well.  “Are there any limits” on Congress’s power to compel
people to act? Dubina asked the Justice Department’s lawyer.  Economic Activity  “Absolutely,” Katyal replied. “We are not saying that
Congress can force somebody to buy something and that failure to
do so is economic activity.”  “People are seeking that good already,” he said of health
care. The acting solicitor general said $43 billion is spent
annually on care for the uninsured. “That’s quintessentially
economic,” he said.  Clement told the court the issue boils down to whether the
federal government can regulate the individual.  “For 220 years, Congress never saw fit to exercise that
power,” he said, adding later, “The whole reason we do this is
to protect individual liberty.”  Clement said the Commerce Clause was created to regulate
people engaged in commercial activity, not to force them to
engage.  Katyal argued that the states’ lawyers were “looking at
the wrong side” of the transaction.  Someone Pays  “Someone else picks up the tab when you don’t have
insurance,” the government lawyer said, “that’s why it’s
activity.”  A. Christopher Bryant , a University of Cincinnati law
professor, said the sweep of Vinson’s decision makes it
vulnerable to reversal.  “This is such a huge act, and there are so many pieces to
it,” he said. “To bring it all down is a dramatic judicial
intervention into politics.”  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Richmond on May 10 heard the
Obama administration’s challenge to a lower court ruling that
sided with Cuccinelli, the  Virginia  attorney general. The judge
struck down the individual mandate as unconstitutional while
leaving the rest of the act standing.  The Richmond panel also heard an appeal by Lynchburg,
Virginia-based Liberty University, which sought to reverse
another judge’s dismissal of its challenge to the law.  Cincinnati Panel  A three-judge panel in Cincinnati last week heard arguments
on a bid by the  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based Thomas More Law Center
to reverse a lower-court decision upholding the health-care act.  Neither the Cincinnati nor the Richmond appellate court has
ruled.  “The mandate is so integrally related to the funding of
the entire mechanism,” said Zaremski, the health-care industry
lawyer, because it makes it more possible for health insurers to
be able to afford to insure any applicant, as they must do under
the act.  “If the mandate is unconstitutional, the rest of the act
can’t survive,” he said. “Without the mandate, the  insurance
industry  would say, ‘We can’t afford to do this.’”  The case is State of Florida v.  U.S. Department of Health 
and Human Services, 11-11021, U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for
the 11th Circuit (Atlanta).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris at the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Atlanta
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Laurence Viele Davidson at the U.S. Court of Appeals in Atlanta
at   lviele@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 