-- 
Health Companies Say Spanish Regions Owe Them $7.6 Billion

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-06-08T15:51:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/health-companies-say-spanish-regions-owe-them-7-6-billion-2-.html
Spain ’s association of pharmaceutical
firms said Spain’s health system owes the companies 5.2 billion
euros ($7.6 billion), adding to concerns about finances of
regional governments that control health care.  Companies have to wait on average 410 days to get paid, and
in five regions the delay is as long as 600 days, said
Farmaindustria, which represents international and local
companies that account for more than 90 percent of Spain’s
prescription drug sales. The debt is for medicine supplied to
hospitals, it said in a statement. The Health Ministry in Madrid
declined to comment on the report.  Health care is controlled by Spain’s regional governments,
which are struggling to rein in budget deficits after a plunge
in revenue linked to the slump in the real-estate industry. The
regions are crucial to Spain’s efforts to convince investors it
can reorder public finances amid concerns that the transfer of
power after local elections on May 22 may reveal deeper budget
holes than the outgoing administrations have acknowledged.  The gap between Spanish and German 10-year borrowing costs
rose 8 basis points today to 232 basis points, that down from a
euro-era record of 298 basis points on Nov. 30.  Catalan Revolt  Catalonia’s regional government, which is refusing to meet
a government budget target this year after saying the previous
administration left a bigger-than-forecast budget hole, owes 234
million euros, Farmaindustria said. Andalusia owed 1.25 billion
euros, the largest outstanding debt, and Castilla-La Mancha, the
region with the highest  budget deficit , owes 268 million euros,
it said.  The health departments of Andalucia and Catalonia declined
to immediately comment on the report when contacted by Bloomberg
News. No one was available to comment in Castilla-La Mancha.  Political leaders in Castilla-La Mancha are squabbling over
the state of public finances after the  People’s Party  wrested
control from the Socialists for the first time in three decades
in the May 22 election. Regional PP leader Vicente Tirado said
the state’s books are in “chaos” and the administration has
stopped paying its bills, charges the outgoing finance chief
Maria Luisa Araujo denied yesterday at a news conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  