-- 
Heart Attack Risk Falls 74% With Cholesterol Levels Over 20 Years in U.K.

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 
2011-06-08T23:05:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/heart-attack-risk-falls-74-with-cholesterol-levels-in-u-k-.html
Lower cholesterol and blood pressure
levels helped cut the risk of having a heart attack in the U.K.
by 74 percent over two decades, though rising obesity rates may
undermine that progress, researchers said.  A decline in smoking rates also contributed to the lower
risk, according to a study of almost 10,000 civil servants. The
findings of the researchers from University College  London 
Medical School were published today in the  European Heart
Journal .  The reduction in heart attacks would have been even greater
if the study participants hadn’t also gotten fatter, the
researchers found. Between 1985 and 2004, a measure of obesity
known as the body mass index rose steadily, and higher obesity
rates might have led to an increase in heart attacks if not for
the changes in cholesterol, blood pressure and smoking,
according to the study.  “Continued increases in BMI may reduce further, and even
reverse, the decline in the incidence of heart attacks in the
future,” said Sarah Hardoon, a senior research associate at UCL
who led the study, in a statement. “The rising BMI in the U.K.
and in other countries needs urgent attention.”  Heart disease  remains the  world’s biggest killer , causing
17.1 million deaths in 2004, the World Health Organization
estimates. Behaviors such as lack of exercise, poor diet and
smoking account for 80 percent of cardiovascular disease,
according to the Geneva-based WHO.  Obesity Rates  Worldwide obesity rates have  more than doubled  since 1980,
and about 1.5 billion people were overweight in 2008, according
to the WHO. About 23 percent of the heart disease burden is
because of obesity, the WHO said.  Cholesterol  is a fatty substance both made by the body and
found in some foods. Too much cholesterol in the blood can cause
plaque to build up in arteries, blocking the blood supply to the
heart and leading to a heart attack.  The greatest single impact on the decline in heart attacks
came from lower levels of so-called bad cholesterol, the U.K.
study found. That may reflect greater use of a class of
cholesterol-lowering medicines as well as changes in diet, the
researchers said.  Levels of so-called good cholesterol, which removes bad
cholesterol from the blood stream, rose among participants in
the U.K. study, further helping to prevent heart attacks.  Cholesterol levels,  blood pressure , smoking and diet
accounted for more than half of the 74 percent decline, and more
research is needed to determine the other factors at work, the
researchers said.  The researchers looked at data from more than 9,450 men and
women participating in the Whitehall II study, so called because
those recruited worked at U.K. government offices in and around
Whitehall in London. The study was funded by grants from
organizations including the U.K. Medical Research Council, the
British Heart Foundation and the U.K. Department of Health.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  