-- 
East African Nations’ Budget for Higher Investment as Growth Outlook Dims

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-06-09T14:18:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/east-african-nations-raise-investment-as-growth-outlook-dims.html
Kenya , Tanzania and  Uganda  outlined
plans to increase spending on roads and power plants as they
struggle to maintain economic growth that has been damped by
rising fuel and food costs.  Budget plans for the year through June 2012 announced
yesterday showed the investment will stymie attempts by Kenya
and Uganda to narrow their fiscal deficits.  Higher fuel prices and food costs, driven by poor rains in
parts of East Africa and increased international prices, have
constrained  consumer spending  and hardened expectations for
weaker economic growth. The three governments aim to attract
more private investment by upgrading road and rail links and
improving the reliability of electricity supplies.  “The economic prospects for 2011 remain strong, but the
impact of high fuel and commodity prices as well as delayed
rains is a source of concern,” Kenya’s Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  said in Nairobi, the capital, in his annual budget
speech to parliament yesterday.  Growth in East Africa’s largest economy is projected to
slow to 5.3 percent in 2011 from 5.6 percent last year, and rise
to 6.1 percent in 2012, Kenyatta said.  Kenya will boost spending by 15 percent to 1.15 trillion
shillings, pledging 100.9 billion shillings to upgrade roads, up
a fifth from a year earlier, and doubling energy investments, he
said.  Deficit Spending  The government also plans to remove the excise duty on
kerosene, a fuel used for cooking, eliminate the levy on wheat
imports, and lower the tax on imported corn to 10 percent from
50 percent, to offset the rising cost of living, Kenyatta said.  Those measures will contribute to the  budget deficit 
widening to 184.3 billion shillings, he said. Excluding the
rollover in domestic debt and taking into account external debt
redemptions, the deficit will widen to 236.2 billion shillings,
or 7.4 percent of gross domestic product.  The government had forecast in March that the fiscal gap
would narrow to 152.6 billion shillings, or 5 percent of GDP,
from 162.5 billion shillings, or 6 percent, this fiscal year.  “The deficit is going up because this is a very
expansionary budget,” Elizabeth Irungu, investment manager at
Stanbic Investment Management Services, said by phone from
Nairobi yesterday.  Borrowing Demands  Kenya’s target of net foreign financing of 116.7 billion
shillings, from an estimated 37.6 billion shillings in 2010-
2011, may ease pressure on local bond yields, Yvonne Mhango, an
economist with Renaissance Capital Ltd., said in an e-mailed
note today. Domestic borrowing is targeted at 119.5 billion
shillings in the next financial year, down from 125 billion
shillings this year, Kenyatta said.  Kenya’s debt to GDP ratio, which has “crept up” over the
last several years to 47 percent, is at a manageable level,
Sammy Onyango, chief executive officer of Deloitte East  Africa ,
told reporters in Nairobi today.  The yield on one-year Treasury bills jumped to 10.249
percent, the highest level in at least five years, at a sale
yesterday, tracking rising inflation.  The Kenyan shilling has depreciated 7.9 percent against the
dollar this year, and is the world’s third worst-performing
currency after Suriname’s dollar and the Maldives’ rufiyaa. The
currency was trading 0.1 percent stronger at 87.55 per dollar at
4:48 p.m. in Nairobi, compared with yesterday’s close of 87.64.
Tanzania’s shilling has retreated 5.7 percent, the fifth worst
performer, while Uganda’s currency fell 3.8 percent.  Uganda Investment  Uganda plans to increase “development expenditure” by 40
percent to 3.47 trillion shillings in the next fiscal year as it
builds highways and develops hydropower projects, Finance
Minister Maria Kiwanuka said yesterday in the capital, Kampala.
About 1.22 trillion shillings will be invested in the transport
sector, she said.  The  Finance Ministry  on June 7 cut its economic growth
forecast for the fiscal year through June to 6.3 percent from an
earlier projection of 6.4 percent.  The budget deficit will widen to 4.8 percent of GDP from
4.7 percent a year earlier, it said. Kiwanuka didn’t give a
figure yesterday for the deficit next year. The fiscal gap may
increase to 5 percent of GDP in 2011-12, Yvette Babb, a
strategist for Africa with Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in an
e-mailed note today.  Tanzanian Finance Minister Mustafa Mkulo pledged to lift
expenditure on electricity projects, road-building and
irrigation schemes in 2011-2012 by 85 percent to help spur the
economy.  The objective of the budget is to “allocate resources for
areas with economic multiplier effects like infrastructure for
electricity, water, roads, ports, agriculture, irrigation
schemes and information and communication technology,” Mkulo
said.  Tanzania’s economy will expand 6 percent in 2011, down from
7 percent the year earlier, the  International Monetary Fund  said
on May 10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 