-- 
Heat Wave Spreading to New York Boosts Power Consumption, Risks to Health

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-06-08T14:17:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/heat-wave-spreading-to-new-york-boosts-power-consumption-risks-to-health.html
Heat will spread from the Midwest to
 New York  and the East Coast today, boosting demand for
electricity to run air conditioners and creating health risks.  Advisories and warnings extend from New York to northern
Virginia, including  Washington , Baltimore and Philadelphia,
where temperatures are forecast to reach 99 degrees Fahrenheit
(37 Celsius), according to the  National Weather Service .  The high in Manhattan’s Central Park may reach 95, which
would tie a daily record set in 1933, according to the weather
service. The weather service expected yesterday that the record
might be broken today, though it has since revised its forecast.  “Both the Midwest and the East are at or approaching their
peak levels of heat today so that the national cooling demand
level should be at its zenith for this current event,”  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC, in Bethesda,
Maryland, said today in a note to clients.  There’s more than enough generating and power-line capacity
in New York to meet today’s expected peak usage of 31,000
megawatts, the highest so far this year, said Ken Klapp, a
spokesman for the New York Independent System Operator, which
controls the statewide  power grid . Similar demand is expected
tomorrow, he said in a telephone interview.  Available Capacity  Available capacity is 35,862 megawatts, well above the
minimum needed to guard against a blackout from plant shutdowns
or high-voltage system failures, the operator said in a
statement on its website. New Yorkers used as much as 26,642
megawatts yesterday when the temperature reached 87 degrees in
Central Park. The record was 33,939 megawatts on Aug. 2, 2006.  “It still isn’t near the peak of last year or the
record,” Klapp said.  Natural gas declined for the first time in three days as a
government report showed output this year will be 4.5 percent
higher than in 2010. Prices have increased 3.1 percent this
month as forecasts showed above-normal temperatures in the U.S.
East, Midwest and South.  Power plants  use about 30 percent of
U.S. gas supplies.  In New York, the city has opened cooling centers for people
seeking relief. Washington has warned residents to guard against
the heat and suggested refrigerating spray bottles full of water
“for a quick refreshing spray to you face after being
outdoors,” according to a city statement.  ‘Dangerous Conditions’  An excessive heat warning issued for Philadelphia said the
combination of heat and humidity will “create dangerous
conditions in highly urbanized areas.”  “The elderly, the infirm, children and pets are at
greatest risk,” according to the warning. “Do not leave anyone
unattended in a vehicle for any length of time. It could result
in their death.”  In addition to the heat bulletins,  air quality  alerts have
been issued for various locations from  New Hampshire  to  Georgia ,
meaning ground-level ozone may exceed dangerous conditions.  The heat will start to break in the Northeast by this
weekend. The high temperature in New York is expected to be 77
degrees June 11 and 71 in Boston.  In his 6- to 10-day outlook, Rogers said  New England  will
probably be cooler than normal from June 13 to June 17. Heat
will continue across the U.S. South and be particularly intense
in  Texas , he said.  “We could press Texas back to the 100-degree level early
next week,” Rogers said.  The heat will probably spread through the Midwest from June
18 to June 22, Rogers said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 