-- 
ECB’s Rulebook Puts Ireland in Same Risk Category as Germany

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-06-09T10:10:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/ecb-s-rulebook-puts-ireland-in-same-risk-category-as-germany.html
For the  European Central Bank ’s
rulebook, Irish  government bonds  belong to the same risk
category as German bunds.  The Frankfurt-based ECB charges lenders putting Irish debt
up as collateral in money-market operations the same premium as
it does banks submitting benchmark German bonds, the  central
bank’s website shows . That’s because ECB lending conditions are
based on the recommendations of  four rating companies  and one of
them, Toronto-based DBRS Inc., puts Irish debt in the top class
of collateral.  “It is very, very strange that Ireland and  Germany  belong
to the same risk group in the ECB’s collateral framework,” said
 Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING Group in Brussels.
“Why can such a small rating agency tip the scale? Why is the
ECB making itself dependent on the single-best rating? The ECB
should probably reconsider its policy.”  The collateral rules mean that the ECB doesn’t
differentiate the region’s safest bonds from those of a country
that was forced to turn to the European Union for a bailout last
year after its banking system came close to collapse. Irish
lenders’ reliance on central-bank funding has soared in the past
year, as depositors fled and banks were locked out of markets.  Without DBRS’s  credit rating , which is two levels above
those of the next-highest, Irish institutions would face a
greater burden to obtain funding at the ECB and exacerbate the
nation’s banking predicament.  An ECB spokesman declined to comment.  A Rating  The ECB determines  the size of the premium , or so-called
haircut, it applies to government bonds on the basis of the best
credit rating from four companies --  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s
Investors Service, Fitch Ratings and DBRS. DBRS currently rates
Ireland at A, two steps higher than the grades of S&P and Fitch
and four steps above that of Moody’s.  DBRS’s rating means the ECB applies a 3 percent haircut on
fixed-coupon Irish bonds with a residual maturity of five to
seven years and a 4 percent premium on paper that will expire in
seven to 10 years. Bonds rated BBB+ to BBB-, like those of
 Portugal , incur premiums of as much as 9 percent, as does debt
from Greece, which is accepted as collateral independently of
its rating.  ‘Fair Opinion’  “Ireland’s fundamentals are in line with an A rating,”
Fergus McCormick, head of sovereign ratings at DBRS, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s one of the most open and flexible
economies. You have to take that into account when you want to
arrive at a balanced and fair opinion.”  Credit default swaps show the probability of an Irish
default within five years is 44 percent, compared with 3 percent
for Germany, according to CMA prices today.  Higher haircuts make it more expensive for banks to borrow
from the ECB. A 5 percent haircut on an asset means the central
bank would lend commercial banks 95 percent of its current
market value. The difference in yield between Irish and German
10-year bonds widened 11 basis points to 793 basis points today.  “Risk control measures are applied to the assets
underlying Eurosystem credit operations in order to protect the
Eurosystem against the risk of financial loss if underlying
assets have to be realized owing to the default of a
counterparty,” the ECB says on its website.  Growth Prospects  Ireland’s economy may return to growth in 2011 and expand
at more than double this year’s speed in 2012 as companies step
up hiring and spending, the European Commission said last month.
The country secured a bailout package of 85 billion euros ($124
billion) over three years on Nov. 28 designed to lower its
budget shortfall from 10.5 percent of gross domestic product
this year to below the European Union’s 3 percent limit by 2015.  “Ireland has been extremely diligent in meeting its fiscal
targets,” McCormick said. “There has not been any deviation
whatsoever from the plan, unlike in other countries in the euro
area.”  Ireland’s government has cut welfare spending and increased
taxes to help plug its budget gap. The country has implemented
21 billion euros of austerity measures since 2008, with a
further 9 billion euros of measures earmarked before the end of
2014. By contrast,  Greece , which was the first euro-area country
to receive external aid to shoulder its debt, has failed to meet
its consolidation plan.  “It’s good news that one rating agency recognized the good
work the Irish government is doing,” said  Alan McQuaid , chief
economist at Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin. “The economic
outlook five years from now will be a lot brighter than it is
now,” he said. Some companies “might not have given Ireland a
benefit of the doubt” when cutting their rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  