-- 
Egypt May Keep Key Lending Rate Unchanged as Revolt Hits Growth Prospects

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-06-08T20:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/egypt-may-keep-key-lending-rate-unchanged-at-8-25-as-uprising-hits-growth.html
Egypt’s  central bank  will probably
keep its benchmark interest rate at the lowest level in more
than four years, as economic fallout from the popular uprising
against Hosni Mubarak offsets concern about rising prices.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor Farouk El- Okdah, will keep the overnight deposit rate at 8.25 percent, the
lowest since November 2006, when it meets today, according to
all six economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The bank usually
meets at 3 p.m. and announces the decision two hours later.  The turmoil that accompanied the overthrow of Mubarak in
February may slow economic growth to 1 percent this year, the
 International Monetary Fund  has said. That would be the lowest
annual rate since 1992 in the country of about 80 million
people. The government says it needs growth of about 7 percent
to create enough jobs for a growing working-age population.  “Growth prospects are quite weak,” said Nada Farid, a
Cairo-based senior economist at Beltone Financial.  Since the uprising, tourists have fled, foreign investors
dumped Egyptian Treasury bills and factory output was hit by
protests and strikes. The number of tourists visiting Egypt
slumped by about 60 percent in March from a year earlier and
tourist spending fell to $352 million from $1 billion, the
government statistics agency said in May.  The economy will probably contract by 1.4 percent in the
six months through June, according to the government’s economic
program published on June 5. It forecasts growth for the fiscal
year ending in June at 2 percent, down from 5.1 percent in the
previous one.  Bank’s Dilemma  The central bank’s dilemma is that even as growth slows,
quickening inflation means policy makers are more likely to
raise rates than cut them, the economic program suggested.  The central bank “will remain vigilant and ready to
tighten its policy stance if inflation pressures were to rise,”
it said. “Inflation will remain broadly stable in the coming
fiscal year, albeit at a relatively elevated level.” it said.  Egypt ’s inflation rate climbed to 12.1 percent in April
from 11.5 percent the month before. With food driving inflation
the government is using other tools in a bid to quash price
pressures.  “A cut right now is not so plausible because the last
figures are beginning to signal a concern that many have on the
inflation front,” John Sfakianakis, the Riyadh-based chief
economist of Banque Saudi Fransi, said in a telephone interview.
“The central bank doesn’t want to be viewed as an entity which
is contributing to inflationary pressures.”  Egypt plans to boost spending on food and fuel subsidies in
the next fiscal year to 124 billion Egyptian pounds ($21
billion), a 9 percent increase from this year.  IMF Loan  Egypt announced a $3 billion loan agreement with the IMF on
June 5, as it seeks to finance a  budget deficit  forecast by the
government to reach almost 10 percent of gross domestic product
this fiscal year and 11 percent next year.  In March, the central bank introduced a seven-day regular
repurchase agreement, or repo, to boost liquidity among banks
that have borne the brunt of buying Treasury bills after foreign
investors dumped Egyptian securities following the uprising. The
crisis has driven the country’s benchmark EGX 30  stock index 
down nearly 24 percent this year.  The central bank has kept its benchmark interest rate on
hold since September 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 