-- 
Melco Crown Said to Allocate $1.2 Billion Loan to 13 Lenders

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 
2011-06-08T04:35:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/melco-crown-said-to-allocate-1-2-billion-loan-to-13-lenders.html
     June 8 (Bloomberg) -- Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) , the
operator of Macau’s  City of Dreams  casino and entertainment
complex, has completed bank allocations for its $1.2 billion
loan, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Thirteen banks joined the original five in syndication and
proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes, the person
said, asking not to be identified as details are private. The
loan consists of an $800 million term loan and a $400 million
revolving credit facility, the person said.  Melco Crown, a venture between Australian billionaire  James
Packer  and Hong Kong’s Lawrence Ho, posted a third straight
quarterly profit last month as gambling revenue rose at its two
Macau properties. Macau surpassed  Las Vegas  as the world’s
biggest casino market about six years ago and is the only place
in  China  where such casino resorts are legal.  Australia  & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., Bank of America
Corp., Bank of China Ltd., Commerzbank AG and Deutsche Bank AG
were the five lenders hired to organize the loan, the person
said. Bank of China contributed $200 million, while the others
each put in $75 million.  Banco Nacional Ultramarino SA, Citigroup Inc., National
Australia Bank Ltd. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc also
put in $75 million for a total interest and fee payment of 208
basis points to 308 basis points more than the London interbank
offered rate, depending on whether they contributed to the  term
loan  or revolver, the person said. In a revolving credit
facility, money that’s been repaid can be borrowed again, while
in a term loan it can’t. A basis point is 0.01 of a percentage
point.  Banks contributing $50 million each for a total payment of
204 basis points to 304 basis points included Bank of Nova
Scotia, China Construction Bank Corp. and Credit Suisse Group
AG, while lenders committing to $45 million were Banco Comercial
de Macau, Banco Comercial Portugues SA,  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia , Tai Fung Bank and Wing Lung Bank. Bank of East Asia
Ltd. contributed $25 million, the person said.  Melco Crown opened City of Dreams, its second Macau, China-
based casino, on the Cotai Strip in June 2009. The company sold
so-called dim sum bonds in April, issuing 2.3 billion yuan ($355
million) of two-year, 3.75 percent notes in  Hong Kong , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Proceeds from that sale will be used in part to fund
acquisitions and repay debt, the Hong Kong-based company said in
an April 26 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  