-- 
Telkom South Africa Could Try Talks to Settle Nigerian Claim, Afena Says

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-06-08T12:42:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/telkom-south-africa-falls-most-in-3-weeks-after-losing-nigerian-court-case.html
Telkom  South Africa  Ltd. could try
negotiating a lower settlement with Helios Towers  Nigeria  to end
a dispute over a $252 million damages claim that is holding back
the sale of its Nigerian unit, Afena Capital said.  Helios Towers Nigeria, a unit of London-based Helios
Investment Partners LLP, in December lodged a damages claim
against Telkom’s Multi-Links unit regarding the leasing of
mobile-phone towers in Nigeria. Multi-Links argued that the
lease was invalid because the government hadn’t authorized
building on the land where Helios Towers placed the equipment. A
judge in Nigeria’s commercial capital of Lagos found the
contract to be valid.  “They can either negotiate to pay a lower price with
Helios, or Telkom can liquidate Multi-Links and pay Helios
whatever is left, together with other creditors,” said
Khulekani Dlamini, a portfolio manager at Cape Town-based  Afena
Capital , which has 18 billion rand ($2.7 billion) in assets.  Telkom said on April 1 it is in talks to sell its CDMA
technology business to Visafone Communications Ltd. for $52
million. The settlement of the Helios lawsuit is one of the
conditions of the sale, Pretoria-based Telkom said in a
statement yesterday. A hearing hasn’t yet been scheduled for
Helios Towers Nigeria’s damages claim and Telkom will consider
all its options, it said.  Shares Slide  The stock of Africa’s largest fixed-line operator slid as
much as 3.4 percent, its biggest intraday drop since May 17, to
35.45 rand, and was trading at 36.41 rand as of 2:04 p.m. in
Johannesburg. Telkom has declined 4 percent this year compared
with a 5 percent gain in the five-member FTSE/JSE  Africa 
Telecommunications Index.  The fall in Telkom’s share price is a buying opportunity,
said Wilhelm Hertzog, a portfolio manager at the Cape Town-based
 Regarding Capital Management Ltd.  The  money manager  holds 2.5
million Telkom shares, or 0.5 percent of the company, among its
18 billion rand worth of equities under management, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “At these levels there’s a lot of bad news priced into the
share,” Hertzog said. “We think it offers good value at these
levels and it continues to be one of our top-10 holdings.”  ‘Scare Shareholders’  Telkom on May 31 issued a regulatory statement on the Stock
Exchange News Service about the lawsuit, initiated by Helios on
Dec. 20. The statement followed a May 22 article in the London-
based  Telegraph  about the court case. There are no restrictions
barring the sale of the CDMA business, Telkom spokesman Pynee
Chetty said in an e-mailed response to questions on May 24.  The  Johannesburg Stock Exchange  said on May 31 that it told
Telkom to provide an explanation on the Nigerian lawsuit to
determine whether there was a “price-sensitive matter” that it
was obligated to disclose to shareholders.  “The matter of disclosure is quite difficult,” said
Irnest Kaplan, managing director of Johannesburg-based Kaplan
Equity Analysts. “Do you scare shareholders by telling them of
a litigation matter whose outcome is not certain? Or do you wait
until there is more clarity? More disclosure is always better
than less disclosure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  