-- 
EMC’s RSA Security Breach May Cost Bank Customers $100 Million

-- B y   R a c h a e l   K i n g
-- 
2011-06-08T17:35:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/emc-s-rsa-security-breach-may-cost-bank-customers-100-million.html
The security breach at EMC Corp.’s
RSA unit may cost the banking industry as much as $100 million
to replace identification tokens that left their computers
vulnerable to spying.  Banks may be forced to pay $50 million to $100 million to
distribute new RSA SecurID devices that employees use to
securely log onto corporate networks, according to a Gartner
Inc. research analyst. RSA clients include  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and
 Northwest Bancshares Inc. (NWBI)  as well as defense contractor  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) , which said a May 21 cyberattack on its computers
is linked to the March breach of RSA’s SecurID database.  Gartner estimates that about 80 percent of banks in the
U.S. use that type of security token and Bedford, Massachusetts-
based RSA has about 50 percent of the market. The breach is
larger in scope than recent attacks, including the March 30
infiltration of Alliance Data System Corp.’s Epsilon e-mail
marketing unit, which resulted in the theft of customer data
from banks including Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “Compared to Epsilon this is more serious because it was
an attack against an authentication system used by defense
agencies and banks,” Avivah Litan, a security analyst at
Stamford, Connecticut-based Gartner, said in an interview.  RSA said June 7 it would replace customers’ SecurIDs. There
are about 40 million tokens in use, Litan said. Bethesda,
Maryland-based Lockheed, the world’s largest military
contractor, said June 4 it had already mailed new tokens to
45,000 employees.  Raytheon Co. (RTN) , the biggest maker of missiles,
and  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) , maker of B-2 stealth bombers and
Global Hawk drones, are also SecurID users, according to RSA.  Customer Response  “Many customers, as they reflect on the fact that there is
no new risk, will remain comfortable using the remediation we
have recommended since March,” said Helen Stefan, a spokeswoman
for RSA. “The potential does exist to replace hardware tokens
in the millions, but we do not foresee replacing anywhere near
the range of 30-40 million.”  Gartner estimates that banks pay $27 to $58 a year per user
for the tokens, including the server software needed on the back
end. Even if RSA does replace the tokens, customers will incur
costs for final distribution to employees.  Right now banks are “deliberating, because it is costly,
but I would say that most of them will take RSA up on the
offer,” Litan said.  Litan estimates that there are 3,500 FDIC-insured
institutions, with about 500 to 1,000 people each using security
tokens. If all the banks agree to RSA’s offer, the cost of
distribution would be $50 million to $100 million, she said.  RSA Competitor  Most companies contacted for this story including General
Electric Co., United Continental Holdings Inc. and Citigroup
wouldn’t discuss their computer-security measures. Laura Hunter,
a spokeswoman for Bank of America Corp., and Gabriel Boehmer, a
spokesman for Wells Fargo, said each company is replacing some
tokens, without elaborating on security plans.  “Security is core to our mission and safeguarding our
customers’ information is at the foundation of all we do,” said
Bridget Braxton, a spokesman for San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo. “We constantly monitor the environment, assess potential
threats, and take action as warranted.”  RSA’s biggest competitor with this type of token is
 Oakbrook Terrace , Illinois-based  Vasco Data Security
International Inc. (VDSI)  Vasco rallied 36 percent on the Nasdaq Stock
Market in the 12 trading days following EMC’s March 17
disclosure of the RSA data breach. EMC rose 1.8 percent in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading in that time.  Representatives of Vasco weren’t available to comment.  EMC Margins  EMC, the world’s biggest maker of storage computers, bought
RSA in 2006 for about $2 billion to expand into security
software. The unit made up about 4 percent of Hopkinton,
Massachusetts-based EMC’s $17 billion in revenue last year.  Gross margins for RSA narrowed to 54.1 percent in the
quarter ending March 31, from 67.6 percent a year earlier, EMC
said in a May regulatory filing. EMC attributed the decrease to
costs associated with investigating the cyber attack, work done
on its systems and remediation actions conducted with customers.  The attack began with e-mails sent to small groups of RSA
users, presumably employees, that were titled “2011 Recruitment
Plan” and wound up in their junk files, RSA told analysts
including Litan in an April 1 conference call. Attached to those
e-mails was a spreadsheet that contained malicious software that
gathered security credentials until it found the targeted
system. Secret data was stolen and sent to an outside hosting
provider, according to an April 1 blog post by Litan.  Serial Numbers  The stolen information was two secret pieces of data,
including seed and serial numbers, said Johannes B. Ullrich,
chief research officer at SANS Technology Institute in Bethesda,
 Maryland . With the tokens, every 30 seconds new numbers show up
and they are used as a password. The computer server has to know
which number to expect from you and the serial number, he said.  Through the stolen RSA information, Ullrich said, hackers
knew which serial numbers had been sent to Lockheed. They didn’t
know which employee had which token, and it’s unclear how
hackers had gathered that information, Ullrich said.  Ullrich said the attack “was definitely state-sponsored”
espionage because the scheme was so sophisticated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachael King in  San Francisco  at 
 rking25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  