-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Fall Amid Global Growth Concerns; Thai Shares Drop

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-06-08T23:17:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/emerging-market-stocks-fall-after-fed-officials-voice-world-growth-concern.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, pushing
the benchmark index down for the fifth day in six, after the
 World Bank  said developing nations need to accelerate interest-
rate increases and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  gave
no sign of new stimulus to boost U.S. growth.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated 0.6 percent to
1,145.47 as of 4:30 p.m. in  New York , the lowest close since May
26.  Thailand ’s SET Index fell 1.9 percent after Credit Suisse
Group AG said it’s “less optimistic” about that market. The
WIG20 Index of Polish shares slid 0.4 percent as the central
bank raised borrowing costs for the fourth time this year.
 Brazil ’s Bovespa fell 0.3 percent.  Real  interest rates , which take inflation into account, are
low or negative in many emerging markets, according to the World
Bank. The Washington-based lender lowered its growth forecast
for the world economy this year to 3.2 percent from a January
estimate of 3.3 percent. Bernanke said yesterday that the
recovery remains “frustratingly slow,” while giving no
indication he was planning a third round of asset purchases
known as quantitative easing.  “A recent slowdown in some economic indicators, ongoing
European debt issues and concerns about the end of quantitative
easing in the U.S. all got tangled up to affect investors’
sentiment,” said Chu Moon Sung, a Seoul-based  fund manager  at
Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Co., which oversees $29
billion. “Volatility will be here for a while.”  2011 Loss  The MSCI index has lost 0.5 percent this year as investors
speculated  Europe ’s debt crisis and reduced economic stimulus
efforts by governments worldwide will threaten earnings growth.
The 21-country gauge is valued at 10.4 times analysts’ estimates
for profits during the next 12 months, down from 11.6 at the
start of the year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 314 today, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  Peru’s benchmark index gained for a second day, paring a
record 12 percent loss on June 6, as president-elect Ollanta
Humala said he may ask current central bank President to stay in
his post, signaling to investors that his government won’t scrap
policies that led to the region’s fastest economic growth. The
sol strengthened 0.5 percent against the dollar.  Polish Rate Decision  The  MSCI China (MXCN)  Index dropped 1 percent, while  India ’s
Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index slid 0.5 percent.  South
Korea ’s Kospi declined 0.8 percent as Samsung Electronics Co.,
the consumer-electronics company that gets more than 80 percent
of its revenue from overseas, fell 1.1 percent.  Emerging-market economies, growing almost three times
faster than their developed counterparts, need to speed spending
cuts and interest-rate increases as they fight inflation and
overheating, the World Bank said.  Poland’s central bank raised the benchmark seven-day
interest rate by a quarter point to 4.5 percent, matching the
expectations of 26 of 33 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Seven
analysts estimated the rate would remain unchanged.  The Polish zloty fell 1 percent versus the greenback, the
second most among major emerging-market currencies, after the
Romanian leu.  Thailand’s benchmark stock gauge fell for a seventh day,
its longest losing streak since January 2010, after Credit
Suisse cited concern that July 3 elections will fuel political
instability.  Bangkok Bank Pcl (BBL) , Thailand’s biggest lender, lost 2.3
percent, and Land & Houses Pcl, the largest property developer,
slid 3.4 percent after Credit Suisse reduced its weighting on
banks, property and tourism-related companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  