-- 
Emerging Market Economies Must Speed Up Rate Increases, World Bank Says

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-06-08T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/emerging-markets-must-speed-up-rate-increases-world-bank-says.html
Emerging-market economies, growing
almost three times faster than their developed counterparts,
need to speed spending cuts and interest-rate increases as they
fight inflation and overheating, the  World Bank  said.  The Washington-based institution lowered its growth
forecast for the world economy this year to 3.2 percent from a
January estimate of 3.3 percent, to reflect Japan’s earthquake
and political unrest in the  Middle East  and North Africa. The
 World Bank  left unchanged a prediction for a global rebound to
3.6 percent in 2012.  “Developing countries are at a point where they really
have put the crisis-fighting stage of the recovery behind
them,” Andrew Burns, the World Bank’s manager of global
macroeconomics, told reporters today. “They now need to be
reorienting themselves towards establishing the conditions that
are going to allow them to have strong growth in years to
come.”  While developed nations contend with high unemployment and
a European debt crisis that poses risks to global growth, many
emerging economies have not yet taken advantage of their strong
expansion to remove the fiscal stimulus enacted to cushion the
global recession, according to the World Bank. Real  interest
rates  are low or negative in many countries even as policy
makers from  India  to  Peru  raise borrowing costs because of
inflation, according to the bank.  Developing nations also need to allow more exchange rate
flexibility, the World Bank’s Global Economic Prospects report
said.  Indonesia , South Africa  The World Bank, which was established after World War II to
fight poverty, offers financial and technical assistance to
countries, including $1.5 billion in loans to help improve
India’s rural roads last year.  High-income economies are seen growing 2.2 percent this
year and 2.7 percent in 2012, today’s report said. That compares
with 6.3 percent and 6.2 percent in the emerging regions, which
include nations from Indonesia to  South Africa , according to the
bank’s report.  The bank cut its forecast for a U.S. expansion to 2.6
percent this year from the January estimate of 2.8 percent. The
agency expects 2.9 percent growth next year and recent economic
data point to a “growth pause,” Burns said. He said the bank
doesn’t see a “double-dip” scenario as a likely outcome in the
U.S.  Oil Demand  Emerging markets now account for almost half of global
crude-oil demand and  China  absorbs 40 percent of the world’s
metal supplies, contributing to the increase in prices observed
since the recovery, the bank said in the report.  Oil prices  are
up 37 percent in the past year. Copper surged to a record
$10,190 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange on Feb. 15 as
mining companies struggled to keep pace with rising consumption.  The commodities developments call for a change in mindset
from those countries, which have become key players and must
embrace the challenges and responsibilities that come with it,
Burns said.  “ Developing countries  are going to increasingly have to
not look at these as external events that are imposed upon
them,” such as an oil price shock, Burns said. “Increasingly
these are reflections of a strong growth that they have.”  China’s growth will slow to 9.3 percent this year, from
10.3 percent in 2010, and rise 8.7 percent in 2012, the bank
said. India will grow 8 percent this year and 8.4 percent next
year, it said.  The rise in commodity prices and strong capital inflows
have contributed to faster inflation, which in developing
countries was close to 7 percent in April from a year earlier,
more than 3 percentage points higher than in July 2009,
according to the report.  Inflation Tools  Policy makers “will need to make fuller use of all the
tools at their disposal to keep inflation under control,” the
World Bank said. “While the more unstable capital inflows that
characterized the third quarter of 2010 have abated, many of the
underlying conditions that attracted those flows remain in
place.”  The World Bank also estimated that domestic food prices in
developing countries may increase this year and next, even if
international prices decline.  Risks to the global economy also include continued turmoil
in Arab countries, where civil unrest has lifted oil prices.
Higher energy costs could also push food prices further, the
bank said.  Persistent uncertainty on the fiscal situation of countries
in the euro region, as well as debt levels in the U.S. and
 Japan , represent another threat, according to the report.  The World Bank projects growth of 1.7 percent in 2011 and
1.8 percent in 2012 in the 17-country euro area, compared with a
forecast in January for 1.4 percent growth this year and 2
percent next year. Japan will expand 0.1 percent this year and
2.6 percent in 2012, compared with forecasts for 1.8 percent and
2 percent growth seen at the beginning of the year.  “Further financial stress may emerge, as monetary policy
in high-income countries begins to tighten,” the bank said.  The World Bank based its projections on market prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  