-- 
Temple-Inland Poison Harmless as Merger Can Rise 28%: Real M&A

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e ,   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-06-08T20:13:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/temple-inland-poison-harmless-as-merger-can-rise-28-real-m-a.html
Temple-Inland Inc. (TIN)  may squeeze $1.1
billion more out of  International Paper Co. (IP) ’s bid that’s already
the most costly in the packaging industry in four years.  The unsolicited $4.1 billion offer values the corrugated
cardboard maker at 9.8 times the last 12 months’ earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the most expensive for a
packaging acquisition greater than $100 million since 2007.
Based on next year’s higher projected Ebitda, the deal is at a
discount to the industry median of 8.2 times, signaling Temple-
Inland may command a 28 percent increase to $5.26 billion.  To side step Temple-Inland’s so-called poison pill and
negotiate a friendly deal, International Paper may be forced to
compensate the Austin, Texas-based company’s investors if it
wants to boost its corrugated-packaging market share to 37
percent in  North America . With a market value of $13 billion and
committed financing from UBS AG, the world’s largest paper and
pulp producer can afford to raise the $30.60-a-share bid to as
high as $41, according to Barclays Plc.  “It wouldn’t surprise me if International Paper came back
with a higher bid,” said  Jack Ablin , chief investment officer
for Chicago-based Harris  Private Bank , which oversees $60
billion. “In terms of market cap, nobody is close to
International Paper. The company is well positioned to do this
deal.”  Chris Mathis, a spokesman for Temple-Inland, didn’t return
a call seeking comment.  ‘Very Rich Offer’  “We’ve put a very rich offer on the table, a 46 percent
premium to what the shares closed at on Monday,” Tim Nicholls,
International Paper’s chief financial officer, said in an
interview. “If people are looking forward and using forecasts
to base their multiples, you’ve got to evaluate how accurate you
think those multiples are. They haven’t happened yet. They’re
just a number versus an actual number that has happened.”  International Paper in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , made public the
$4.1 billion cash bid, including net debt, on June 6 after it
was rejected by Temple-Inland’s board. At 9.8 times trailing 12-
month Ebitda of $422 million, it’s the most expensive for an
acquisition greater than $100 million in the packaging and
container industry since private-equity firm Nordic Capital
Svenska AB purchased Swedish transport packager Nefab AB for
10.6 times Ebitda in 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The first offer is probably not the last offer,” said
 Alan Gayle , senior investment strategist at RidgeWorth Capital
Management in Richmond,  Virginia , which oversees about $48
billion. “Typically when you see that kind of move it’s a
signal of a genuine intent that is likely to be followed up by
more action.”  Increased Offer  Temple-Inland’s earnings are projected to reach $640.4
million next year, 52 percent higher than the past 12 months,
based on analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  At that level, International Paper’s offer is only valued
at 6.4 times Ebitda and needs to be increased by $1.1 billion to
be on par with the industry median since 1998, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The higher bid would equate to $41.79 a share,
or an 80 percent premium to the stock’s 20-day average price
before the current offer was announced at a 31 percent premium.  “A negotiated transaction represents the best path for all
share owners,” International Paper’s Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer John Faraci said on a June 6 conference call.
“All reasonable options for us are on the table with respect to
next steps.”  Poison Pill  Temple-Inland closed at $29.49 yesterday, 3.6 percent below
the proposal, after the board adopted a poison pill to prevent
an unwanted takeover if any investor buys 10 percent or more of
the stock. The shares gained 1.4 percent to $29.89 today, while
International Paper fell 3.3 percent to $28.79.  “There are all sorts of games that are being played
here,” said  Timothy Ghriskey , chief investment officer at
Solaris Asset Management in  Bedford Hills , New York, which
manages $2 billion. “This is not going to be a slam dunk close-
in-a-quarter type of thing. IP could pull their offer and you
could see Temple stock crash to where it was pre-offer. Probably
that’s why the stock isn’t trading above the offer price.”  An eventual takeover won’t be “substantially higher” than
$30.60 a share because that’s already well above where Temple-
Inland has been trading, Ghriskey said.  Mark Wilde, a New York-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG,
doesn’t expect a raised bid to top $35 to $37 a share given
Temple-Inland’s recent declines and a slow economic recovery.
The shares had lost 1.1 percent since the start of 2011 before
yesterday.  Stock Underperforms  In the 12 months before the bid was announced, Temple-
Inland returned 12 percent to shareholders including dividends,
half that of the Standard and Poor’s Supercomposite Containers &
Packaging Index and a third of the S&P Supercomposite Paper
Products Index, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  About 17 percent of Temple-Inland’s revenue comes from
building products, where sales have dropped 42 percent since
2006. U.S. new home sales sank to an annual pace in February
that that matched the rate in August as the lowest in data going
back to 1963, according to the Commerce Department.  Temple-Inland said International Paper is trying to buy the
company at a “bargain” when “little to no” value is being
ascribed to the unit.  Still, some analysts expect a much sweeter proposal.
International Paper can pay as much as $41 a share given low
financing costs and Temple-Inland’s strategic importance and
strong corporate defenses, Peter Ruschmeier, a New York-based
analyst at Barclays, wrote in a June 7 note.  Mark Connelly , an
analyst at Credit Agricole SA in New York, said the “right
ballpark” is about $40 a share.  First Unsolicited Deal  International Paper is pursuing its first-ever unsolicited
deal and the largest since its $6 billion acquisition of
 Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY) ’s corrugated-packaging business in August 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It expects to raise
about $2 billion in debt to fund the Temple-Inland purchase.  “They’re not betting the farm on this transaction,” said
Ed Sustar, a Toronto-based senior credit analyst at Moody’s
Investors Service, who expects International Paper to keep its
Baa3 rating that’s one level above junk.  S&P today affirmed International Paper’s BBB rating, one
level higher than Moody’s.  Sustar said he doesn’t see U.S. antitrust regulators
preventing International Paper from boosting its  share  of the
North American corrugated-packaging market to 37 percent from 27
percent, already the No. 1 position.  Domtar Corp. (UFS)  claims almost
40 percent of the North American office paper market, and
AbitibiBowater Inc. has been allowed to control more than half
of the continent’s newsprint, he said.  International Paper CEO Faraci said the offer will add to
profit in the first year and fully values a recovery in
corrugated packaging, where demand for boxes will take four to
five years to return to 2007 levels, and “to a degree” in
building products.  “I don’t think this is done at any stretch,” Deutsche
Bank’s Wilde said. Temple-Inland is “doing what you and I would
do if someone came up to us and said we want to buy your house
and your house wasn’t formerly for sale. They’re trying to get
the best price.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in  New York  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at +1-212-617-3143 or  scasey4@bloomberg.net . 