-- 
Air Rules to Cost Almost $18 Billion a Year, Coal Group Says

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-06-08T17:38:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/epa-air-rules-to-cost-almost-18-billion-a-year-coal-group-says.html
Clean-air rules proposed by the Obama
administration will cost utilities $17.8 billion annually and
raise electricity rates 11.5 percent on average in 2016,
according to an analysis paid for by a coal-industry group.  The report, released today as part of a campaign to delay
compliance deadlines in the pending rules, estimates that
regulations cutting emissions of mercury, sulfur dioxide and
nitrogen oxides would lead to the “premature” retirements of
coal-fired  power plants  that can generate 47.8 gigawatts of
electricity, about 15 percent of coal’s U.S. production
capacity.  The American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity, an
Alexandria, Virginia-based group whose members include  Southern
Co. (SO)  of Atlanta and St. Louis-based  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , paid
National Economic Research Associates Inc. for the study.  The analysis by the New York-based company shows the
pollution limits would be “some of the most expensive EPA rules
ever imposed on coal-fueled power plants,”  Steve Miller , chief
executive of the coal group, said in an e-mail.  The agency is working with utilities and interested parties
to ensure its rules are “reasonable, common-sense and
achievable,”  Brendan Gilfillan , a spokesman for the EPA, said
in an e-mail.  More than half of all coal-fired power plants use “widely
available pollution control technologies” that can meet the new
mercury and air toxics emission targets, he said.  Whitfield Measure  Representative Ed Whitfield, a Kentucky Republican and
chairman of the energy subcommittee of the House Energy and
Commerce Committee, has said he plans to introduce a bill to
give utilities more time to comply with the rules.  New maximum levels for nitrogen oxides, a component of
smog, and sulfur dioxide, which causes acid rain, are scheduled
to take effect in 2012. The EPA is under a court order to
produce a final mercury rule in November. Utilities would have
as long as four years to meet the mercury standard.  The agency says its mercury rule, which also covers acid
gases and arsenic emissions, would prevent as many as 17,000
premature deaths and 11,000 heart attacks a year, at an annual
cost to industry of $10.9 billion in 2016.  Exposure to mercury can lead to developmental problems in
children. Sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides can lead to
respiratory illnesses.  -- Editors: Steve Geimann, Judy Pasternak  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  