-- 
Merkel Gets Backing From German Lawmakers on Plan for Second Greek Bailout

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-06-09T12:56:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/merkel-gets-backing-from-german-lawmakers-on-plan-for-second-greek-bailout.html
Lawmakers from Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s coalition fell in line behind her on a second bailout
for Greece, clearing a potential hurdle to preventing the euro
region’s first sovereign default.  Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , who with Merkel
briefed lawmakers at evening meetings in Berlin yesterday,
snuffed out any rebellion over aid after calling for private
investors to share a “substantial” amount of the burden.
Schaeuble is due to address the lower house of parliament
tomorrow at the start of a debate on “euro zone stability.”  “It’s about the future of the currency union, possibly
about  Europe , and also about Germany’s economy,” Hans Michelbach, the ranking CDU member of parliament’s Finance
Committee, told reporters after the closed-doors meeting. “You
always have to consider the end, and that may mean contagion
dangers for other countries and domino effects on our banks.”  Merkel again faces a balancing act over the debt crisis
that has returned to  Greece  more than a year after it received a
110 billion-euro ($161 billion) bailout. While risking a clash
with the  European Central Bank  on investor involvement, Merkel
must also take into account voter anger over additional aid and
opposition from her coalition partner even as investors and
fellow leaders urge Germany to step up its response.  President  Barack Obama , while hosting Merkel at the White
House this week, made it clear he’s looking to policy makers in
Europe’s largest economy to prevent an “uncontrolled spiral of
default” in countries such as Greece to avoid “disastrous”
harm to the  U.S. economy .  Greek Needs  The yield difference, or spread, between German 10-year
bunds and similar maturity Greek debt widened 50 basis points to
1,359 basis points as of 2:41 p.m. in Berlin. The Greek 10-year
yield rose 49 basis points to 16.64 percent. The euro fell 0.2
percent to $1.4570.  Greece’s financing needs total about 90 billion euros
through 2014, Schaeuble told lawmakers, according to two who
were present.  Germany  is seeking about 30 billion euros in
rollovers by creditors, two people with direct knowledge of the
negotiations said separately.  “The responsibility is clear,” Economy Minister Philipp Roesler, who leads the Free Democrats, told reporters after
Merkel briefed the party for more than two hours. “We stand by
the euro and it’s now a matter of stabilizing the currency.”  ‘Financing Modalities’  Euro finance ministers met yesterday in a telephone
conference and had their “first exchange of views on the
financing modalities” for Greece, according to a statement
issued by the group’s chairman, Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker.  Schaeuble told lawmakers in Berlin that the meeting agreed
to set up a working group comprising officials from euro-area
governments, the ECB and International Monetary Fund charged
with drawing up a model for a “soft restructuring” of Greece’s
debt, Deputy Finance Minister Steffen Kampeter told reporters.  Coalition lawmakers are today drafting a resolution giving
Merkel and Schaeuble guidelines on Greece that will be taken to
a non-binding vote tomorrow. The ruling parties may present
separate resolutions on Greece and on the permanent ESM rescue
fund depending on the outcome of a progress report by the so-
called troika of the IMF, the European Commission and ECB, party
spokesmen said June 6.  Merkel’s CDU/CSU bloc and the FDP “will formulate a
resolution together,”  Peter Altmaier , the CDU’s parliamentary
manager, told reporters.  German ‘Obligations’  “I assume it will be a clear recognition of our European
obligations, but it will also make clear what has to change and
what has to be done for the next steps to be taken,” Altmaier
said. “This means solidarity with Greece, but linked to clear
conditions.”  There will be a “clear majority” for the resolution to
provide further aid to Greece while tightening budget rules to
restore fiscal discipline in the euro region, Rainer Bruederle,
lower-house leader of the Free Democrats, said today.  “There has to be a participation of private creditors”
and Greek privatizations, Bruederle said on ARD television. “We
will give the government clear guidelines in parliament on
Friday on what it can do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  