-- 
Merkel Faces Dissenting Lawmakers on Greece as Schaeuble Stokes ECB Clash

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-06-08T17:27:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/merkel-to-brief-lawmakers-on-greek-aid-as-schaeuble-stokes-clash-with-ecb.html
Less than 24 hours after  Angela Merkel  was urged by President  Barack Obama  to take the lead in
managing Europe’s debt crisis, the German chancellor faces
members of her own coalition who say she’s done enough.  Merkel and Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  briefed
lawmakers in Berlin today on a second bailout for Greece,
outlining a stance at odds with central bankers, French allies
and German voters. That’s a circle not easily squared, said
 Christoph Rieger , head of fixed-income strategy at Commerzbank
AG in  Frankfurt .  By calling for bondholders to contribute a “substantial”
share of the rescue, Schaeuble is “openly clashing” with
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet , Rieger
said. “Either Schaeuble softens his calls or the ECB makes
further concessions,” he said. “One will have to give in.”  Merkel again faces a balancing act over the debt crisis
that has returned to  Greece  more than a year after it received a
110 billion-euro ($161 billion) bailout. Besides ECB calls,
Merkel must take into account voter anger over the aid and
opposition from her coalition partner even as investors and
fellow leaders urge Germany to step up its response.  Obama, while hosting Merkel at the White House, made it
clear he’s looking to policy makers in Europe’s largest economy
to prevent an “uncontrolled spiral of default” in countries
such as Greece to avoid “disastrous” harm to the  U.S. economy .  ‘Sensible Resolution’  “We think that America’s economic growth depends on a
sensible resolution of this issue,” Obama said at a joint news
conference with Merkel in  Washington  yesterday.  Merkel and Schaeuble spoke to lawmakers on Greece in two
separate sessions behind closed doors in parliament in Berlin.
Schaeuble said he reckoned Greece’s financing needs total 90
billion euros through 2014, according to two people who attended
one of his briefings.  “If the euro as a whole is in danger, it’s in  Germany ’s
interest -- and in every country’s interest -- to help,” Merkel
said at the White House. “At that point, we will of course take
action, but we will act in a way that’s sustainable.”  Merkel’s coalition trails the opposition  Social Democratic
Party  and Greens by 35 percent to 49 percent, a Forsa poll for
Stern magazine showed today. Backing for the anti-nuclear Greens
rose 1 point to 27 percent, narrowing the Christian Democrat
lead to just 3 points.  Merkel’s Guidelines  Coalition lawmakers are drafting a resolution giving
Merkel and Schaeuble guidelines on Greece that will be taken to
a non-binding vote June 10. The ruling parties may present
separate resolutions on Greece and on the permanent ESM rescue
fund depending on the outcome of a progress report by the so-
called troika of the  International Monetary Fund , the European
Commission and ECB, party spokesmen said yesterday.  The votes will send a strong message on lawmakers’ “red
line,” Christian Democrat budget spokesman Norbert Barthle said
in an interview yesterday. “Whatever the resolution or
resolutions otherwise may state, taxpayers’ interests will be
stamped clearly into the text,” he said.  Schaeuble, in a June 6 letter to Trichet,  John Lipsky , the
IMF’s acting chief, and fellow euro finance ministers, said that
maturities on Greek bonds should be extended seven years to give
the debt-wracked nation time to overhaul its economy.  Any agreement on aid at a ministers’ meeting on June 20
“has to include a clear mandate -- given to Greece possibly
together with the IMF -- to initiate the process of involving
holders of Greek bonds,” Schaeuble wrote in the letter.  Clashing Positions  The German position clashes with the stance of European
Commission officials and the ECB, which oppose anything beyond a
voluntary rollover of debt as they struggle to avert the euro
area’s first sovereign default. A swap offering investors terms
that are “worse” than those of existing securities would
constitute a coercive or distressed exchange, and be considered
a default,  Fitch Ratings  said this week.  Euro finance ministers met today in a telephone conference
and had their “first exchange of views on the financing
modalities” for Greece, according to a statement issued by the
group’s chairman, Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker.  Greek 10-year bonds yield almost 16 percent and the country
is the most expensive in the world to insure against default, at
a record 1,474 basis points, according to CMA prices. That puts
their chance of default within five years at 71 percent.  ‘Inevitable’ Restructuring  “What I think is ultimately inevitable is a serious hard
restructuring -- a writedown -- of much of the Greek sovereign
debt, but we are not there yet politically,” Citigroup Inc.
Chief Economist Willem Buiter said in an interview with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” today.  In Paris, “the French position is that we are against a
restructuring of Greek debt, no matter how it’s formulated,”
government spokesman  Francois Baroin  said today.  Meanwhile, Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  is
seeking to damp mounting protests and dissent within his ruling
Socialist party to additional deficit cuts and asset sales to
whittle down  Europe ’s biggest debt load.  Greek unemployment rose to 16.2 percent in March, the
highest since it joined the euro and up from 12 percent when it
got the bailout, the Hellenic Statistical Authority said today.
German unemployment was 7 percent in May, the lowest since
records for reunified Germany began in 1991.  With a return to capital markets in 2012 “more than
unrealistic,” Greece needs more aid to avert “the real risk of
the first unorderly default within the euro zone,” Schaeuble
wrote. He called for a “a quantified and substantial
contribution of bondholders to the support effort.”  Germany “is right to demand participation of the private
sector,” Klaus-Peter Flosbach, parliamentary finance spokesman
for Merkel’s bloc, said in an interview today. “It’s not
acceptable that all the risks should be carried by the public
sector. A voluntary extension of maturities by private creditors
would be a big help in defusing the situation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin at   rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: James Hertling
at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  