-- 
Tesco to Expand Click & Collect as Clarke Ramps Up Online Offer

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-06-08T11:04:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/tesco-plans-online-offer-in-prague-this-year-warsaw-in-2012.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) ’s new Chief Executive
Officer  Philip Clarke  said he plans to double the number of
stores offering the non-food Click & Collect service to 600 by
the end of the year as he ramps up online expansion.  The Cheshunt, England-based retailer also plans to add
Internet operations in the cities of Shanghai, Bangkok,  Kuala
Lumpur , Budapest and Bratislava, Clarke said today at the
British Retail Consortium symposium in London.  “Successful retailers need to be multichannel retailers,”
Clarke said. “We cannot differentiate between online and in-
store. Our online offer has to be at least as good, if not
better than, that which we offer on the high street.”  Tesco, the world’s third-largest retailer, operates in 14
countries and offers online shopping in the U.K., Ireland and
 South Korea . Clarke said the company plans to start online
expansion with an operation in Prague this year, which will be
followed by a site in the Polish capital Warsaw in 2012.  The Click & Collect service, where customers order online
and collect from the store, is currently available in about 280
U.K. outlets. Tesco plans to add clothing to the service in July
and groceries by the end of the year, Clarke said.   Tesco in April reported full-year earnings that missed
analysts’ estimates and said the domestic market was likely to
remain “challenging” after sales slid in the fourth quarter.
About 70 percent of profit growth last year came from operations
in Asia and  Europe , according to Tesco, whose domestic market
share has hovered around 30 percent for more than five years.  ‘Much Quieter’  Last month was “very much quieter” for U.K. retailers
after business in April was boosted by holiday weekends and the
wedding of  Prince William  and  Kate Middleton , Clarke said on the
sidelines of the conference. Sales in May were “probably to a
more normal level,” he said. Shoppers are buying more on
promotion and more own-brand products, he added.  The U.K.’s largest grocer is seeing a pattern of “slow
recovery,” he said, as customers are still held by back higher
fuel prices. Tesco hasn’t seen evidence of the 4.9 percent food
inflation reported by the BRC, he said.  The CEO wouldn’t be drawn on whether Tesco would bid for
all or some of Iceland Foods Ltd. Asked if it would be foolish
not to cast a look at the frozen-foods chain, he replied, “I’m
not silly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 