-- 
Essar, Mozambique Agree to Build 20 Million-Ton Iron Ore Terminal at Beira

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-06-08T11:39:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/essar-mozambique-agree-to-build-20-million-ton-iron-ore-terminal-at-beira.html
Essar Group, with interests from
steel to communications, said it’s agreed to build a 20 million
metric ton a year  iron ore  terminal in Mozambique amid surging
demand for the steelmaking ingredient from  China  and  India .  The terminal, at Beira in central Mozambique, will ship
surplus output from the company’s Mwanezi and Ripple Creek mines
in neighboring Zimbabwe, Firdhose Coovadia, resident director
for the  Middle East  and Africa, said at the Africa Iron Ore
Conference in Cape Town today.  Essar, based in Mumbai, is boosting its reserves of iron
ore and coal, both key ingredients for steel, after prices
jumped on increased demand from  Asia . Iron ore has gained almost
threefold since 2008, while Morgan Stanley last month forecast a
“buoyant pricing environment” for coal for most of the next
five years.  In May, Essar agreed to buy a 54 percent stake in  Zimbabwe 
Iron and Steel Co., a steelmaker which hasn’t operated since
2004 because of mounting debts and ageing equipment. Essar plans
to invest $750 million reviving the company, it said on May 9.  Essar may also build a 20 million ton a year coal terminal
at Beira to export excess production, Coovadia said. It may buy
or “participate” in two additional coal mines in Zimbabwe, he
said, without commenting further.  Rising Steel Output  “The mines will first serve the steelmaking operations,
after which we’ll look at export potential,” he said, declining
to comment on the likely cost of the projects.  Zisco, as the Zimbabwean steelmaker is known, will start
producing steel within about 12 to 15 months of the deal
closing, which is expected within a “couple of weeks,”
Coovadia said. The mill will initially produce at an annual rate
of about 500,000 tons before eventually boosting output to about
1.2 million tons, he said.  Essar may also build a further “greenfield” iron ore port
north of Beira, Coovadia said. “The new port is a thought at
this stage, and will depend on potential demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  