-- 
Ethiopia’s Investment Plan May Be Unsustainable, World Bank Official Says

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-06-08T12:51:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/ethiopia-s-investment-plan-may-be-unsustainable-world-bank-official-says.html
Ethiopia’s dependence on foreign
capital to finance budget deficits and a five-year investment
plan is unsustainable, said Ken Ohashi, the  World Bank ’s country
director for the Horn of  Africa  nation.  The government plans to borrow at least 398.4 billion
Ethiopian birr ($23.6 billion) from home and abroad to fund the
five-year growth plan, with an additional 75.4 billion birr to
finance fiscal deficits over the same period.  “I can’t see it’s sustainable short of discovering huge
oil reserves, essentially an unexpected windfall,” Ohashi said
in an interview in the capital, Addis Ababa, yesterday. “I
don’t see how they can sustain such an aggressive investment
plan without getting into serious problems.”  Ethiopia, Africa’s biggest coffee producer and second-most
populous nation, needs to boost its savings rates to finance the
investment plans or risk overheating an economy where inflation
accelerated to 29.5 percent in April from 25 percent the month
before, Ohashi said. It also needs higher exports to repay the
foreign loans.  “If you’re not as a nation saving enough, you are
dependent on foreign capital or other means of financing
investment in an unhealthy, unsustainable way,” Ohashi said.
“That’s the sort of trap they seem to be falling into.”  Negative  Interest Rates   Plans to lift the savings rate to 15 percent of gross
domestic product by July 2015 from 5 percent will be hindered if
inflation continues to accelerate, Ohashi said.  “If you allow inflation to get out of hand and real
interest rates to become hugely negative you totally take away
the incentive to save,” he said.  The government-set minimum deposit rate is currently 5
percent, a sixth of the inflation rate. Without domestic
savings, foreign debts will expand.  “On debt there is a danger,” Ohashi said. “If this
public investment-led growth at some point really stumbles or
stagnates for a while then all these debt equations could
unravel.”  The need to repay foreign debts and rising imports could
also push down the local currency, the birr, which has lost 41
percent of its value against the dollar since the start of 2009,
boosting inflation.  A joint  International Monetary Fund  and World Bank study in
May 2010 found that Ethiopia’s debt rose to 14 percent of gross
domestic product in 2009, according to the Finance Ministry
website. The ratio of debt to exports will reach about 133
percent this year, it said.  Private Industry  Ethiopia’s economic growth may slow to 6 percent in the
fiscal year to July 7, 2012, from 7.5 percent this year, the IMF
said on June 1. The estimate for 2010-11 is below the
government’s projection of 11.4 percent. IMF data show the
economy has expanded an average of 11 percent over the past
seven years.  Ethiopia operates a mixed economy that encourages foreign
investment while state enterprises dominate or monopolize key
industries such as telecommunications, banking and power
generation.  Recent state interventions in the market are discouraging
private industry, according to Ohashi.  “I do worry that without the private sector expanding much
more vigorously then rapid growth is not likely to be
sustainable and if that’s the case then all these debt balances
could go out of control,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 