-- 
European Banks Agree to Participate in Greek Bond Exchange, Debt Buyback

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-07-22T08:27:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/eu-backs-some-small-business-loans-unnecessarily-auditors-say.html
Banks pledged to participate in a
bond exchange and debt buyback program as part of a new rescue
package for  Greece  as European leaders sought to halt the spread
of the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  The role of banks, insurers and other private investors
will provide financing of 54 billion euros ($77.6 billion) to
Greece from mid-2011 to mid-2014, building to a total of 135
billion euros through 2020, the  Institute of International
Finance  said in a statement yesterday.  The plan followed weeks of discussions among banking
officials in Rome, Paris and Berlin as well as meetings with
European Union leaders during an emergency summit in Brussels
yesterday. It’s part of a broader effort to draw a line under
the escalating debt crisis that began with Greece and threatens
to engulf  Spain  and  Italy .  “This offer is part of a comprehensive package which
involves a balance of interest for all parties,” said  Josef Ackermann , the IIF’s chairman and chief executive officer of
Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)  “The private investor
community will benefit from a more stable financial and economic
environment.” The Washington-based IIF’s members include more
than 400 global banks and insurance companies.  European banking shares rose for a fourth day, led by
lenders in Portugal, Italy and Spain, on optimism the plan will
stem the contagion plaguing  Europe . The 46-company Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index climbed as much as 2.5
percent.  Contagion ‘Averted’  The agreement to swap privately held bonds into 15- and 30-
year debt where the principal is “almost completely
collateralized” will remove the risk of the euro region
collapsing, analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. led by Dirk Hoffmann-Becking said in a note to clients today.  To be sure, the participation of private investors,
insisted upon by German Chancellor Angela Merkel and described
by the IIF as “voluntary,” risks a temporary Greek default.  “I don’t think the selective default is a moment of any
major consequence,” said  Charles Dallara , the managing director
of the IIF, in an interview. “Selective default is a temporary
period that you pass through on your way to a better position.”  Extending Maturities  The statement from European leaders after the summit said
the Greek financing package will consist of 109 billion euros
from the euro region and the  International Monetary Fund  in the
2011 to 2014 period. Financial institutions will contribute 50
billion euros after agreeing to the bond exchanges and buybacks
that will also cut Greece’s debt load, the statement said.  The target participation rate by private investors is 90
percent, according to the IIF. As a result of the program, the
average maturity of privately held Greek debt will extend from
six years to 11 years. The stock of debt will be reduced by 13.5
billion euros through the bond exchange program, “and
potentially much more through a debt buyback program that is to
be defined by the official sector,” the IIF said.  Participating investors would see on average a 21 percent
reduction in the net present value of their existing Greek
bonds, the IIF estimates. Dallara said the effects on bank
profits, balance sheets and  capital structure  will be handled on
an institution-by-institution basis.  Four Options  Private investors will have the option to exchange existing
Greek debt into four instruments. Three will be fully
collateralized by AAA-rated zero-coupon securities and have a
30-year maturity, and the fourth will be for 15 years and
partially collateralized by funds held in an escrow account.  The first option would be to swap existing securities into
a 30-year bond at par value backed by top-rated debt purchased
by the European Financial Stability Facility, the IIF said. The
coupon would start at 4 percent and climb to 5 percent over the
life of the bond, and the principal would be repaid to investors
with the proceeds of the maturing zero-coupon securities.  In the second choice, investors would roll over their
holdings into 30-year debt at par when the existing bonds
mature, with the same collateral and interest rates as the first
option. The other two options involve a “discount bond
exchange” into 15- or 30-year securities, at 80 percent of par
value. Coupons would be higher to reflect the upfront hit
investors would accept on the value of the bond.  The IIF assumes that an equal portion of investors will
participate in each option.  European leaders, spurred into action by bond market
turmoil during the past two weeks, empowered their 440 billion-
euro rescue fund to buy debt across stressed euro nations after
eight hours of talks in Brussels. The fund can also aid troubled
banks and offer credit-lines to repel speculators. Leaders also
eased the terms of Greece’s existing loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 Rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  