-- 
Europe Investments, Construction Drove First-Quarter Growth

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-06-08T09:43:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/europe-investments-construction-drove-first-quarter-growth-1-.html
European companies boosted spending
in the first quarter, construction rebounded from a slump and
export growth accelerated, driving an acceleration in the euro
region’s expansion.  Investment in the euro area rose 2.1 percent from the
fourth quarter, when it was unchanged, and exports increased 1.8
percent, compared with a 1.7 percent gain, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today. Construction jumped
2.9 percent after dropping in the prior two quarters. Gross
domestic product rose 0.8 percent from the fourth quarter, when
it gained 0.3 percent, in line with a May 13 estimate.  Europe ’s economy may struggle to gather strength as
governments from  Spain  to Greece toughen spending cuts to reduce
deficits, while rising energy costs squeeze household incomes.
Confidence in the economic outlook weakened in May and the
 European Central Bank  signaled it will keep borrowing costs on
hold when policy makers meet tomorrow. German exports fell more
than economists forecast in April, separate data showed today.  “The second quarter will be weaker with the economy
expanding 0.3 percent,” said  Christoph Weil , a senior economist
at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “It’s more of a normalization
in growth. Exports will continue to drive an expansion.”  The euro was little changed against the dollar after the
data, trading at $1.4653 at 10:33 a.m. in  London , down 0.3
percent on the day.  Consumer spending  in the 17-nation euro region rose 0.3
percent in the first quarter and government expenditure advanced
0.8 percent from the previous three months, today’s report
showed. Imports rose 1.9 percent after increasing 1.3 percent in
the fourth quarter.  ‘Major Risk’  The European Commission said on May 13 that GDP may rise
1.6 percent this year and 1.8 percent in 2012. The ECB will
publish its latest economic forecasts at tomorrow’s meeting. The
Frankfurt-based central bank may keep its benchmark interest
rate at 1.25 percent, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  In  Germany , Europe’s largest economy, GDP rose 1.5 percent
in the first quarter from the previous three months, when it
advanced 0.4 percent, today’s report showed.  France ’s economy
grew 1 percent in that period and  Italy ’s GDP rose 0.1 percent.  In Greece, the economy grew 0.8 percent in the first
quarter and  Portugal ’s GDP dropped 0.7 percent, the statistics
office said. It didn’t provide data for Ireland, which also
received external aid.  Growth Outlook  An 8 percent jump in crude-oil prices this year is clouding
the growth outlook as governments step up austerity measures to
restore investor confidence. The Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development on May 25 called the region’s fiscal
crisis a “major risk” to growth.  European economic confidence weakened for a third month in
May and German investor sentiment dropped more than economists
forecast. European services and manufacturing growth also cooled
in May and European investors grew more pessimistic.  Companies have relied on faster-growing markets to bolster
sales as European economies grappled with a debt crisis that
pushed  Greece  into a recession. Prada SpA, the Italian luxury-
goods maker planning to sell shares in an initial public
offering, on June 3 forecast first-half profit growth of at
least 46 percent on increasing Asian orders.  Schaeffler Group , the roller-bearing maker that owns 60
percent of Continental AG, on May 17 reported a return to profit
in the first quarter on increasing orders. Chief Executive
Officer Juergen Geissinger said that while developments in raw-
material costs “should not be underestimated,” he is looking
at the full year “with confidence.”  Energy Costs  The ECB also has signaled concern about rising energy costs
driving price pressures across the euro region. While inflation
weakened to 2.7 percent in May from 2.8 percent in the previous
month, that’s still above the central bank’s 2 percent ceiling,
and policy makers have indicated concern about higher costs
feeding into wage demands, or so-called second-round effects.  “The current worsening of the Greek debt crisis won’t stop
the ECB from raising  interest rates  in July,” said Alexander Krueger, an economist at Bankhaus Lampe KG in Dusseldorf. “The
ECB will keep all options open concerning its monetary policy
beyond July.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  