-- 
Europeans Face Vetoes of UN Measure Condemning Syrian Repression

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-06-08T23:16:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/europeans-face-vetoes-of-un-measure-condemning-syrian-repression.html
Britain, France, Germany and  Portugal 
urged the  United Nations   Security Council  today to adopt a
resolution condemning the Syrian government’s crackdown on
protesters, and faced the prospect of Russian and Chinese
vetoes.  “We believe that the world should not stand silent in the
face of the outrages that are happening,” Britain’s Ambassador
Mark Lyall Grant told reporters after the four European nations
formally introduced a draft resolution condemning the attacks on
protesters and demanding steps to address their grievances.  Russian Ambassador  Vitaly Churkin  said his government could
not support the measure “because we are not persuaded it can
help establish dialogue, reach a political settlement and put an
end to the violence.” He said Security Council intervention
“may have an opposite effect.”  India ’s Ambassador Hardeep Singh Puri said that it was
“unlikely” his government would vote for the text and that two
countries in the closed Security Council meeting indicated they
could “exercise the strongest negative,” meaning a veto by
Russia and  China .  Puri added that India was concerned that UN intervention in
Syria might lead to a repetition of the type of stalemated
conflict raging in  Libya  following a Security Council resolution
authorizing military force against Muammar Qaddafi’s regime. He
pointed to a provision of the draft calling for the prevention
of the sale of arms to Syria as a possible trigger for stronger
measures.  Syrian Sanctions  Attacks on protesters calling for President Bashar al- Assad’s ouster have escalated since the U.S. and the European
Union announced sanctions against the Syrian leadership in the
middle of last month. Security forces have killed more than
1,100 people and detained more than 10,000 since protests began
in mid-March, human-rights groups say.  The European sponsors of the draft resolution didn’t
indicate when they would call for a vote, saying that it would
be “in the coming days” and that further talks would be held
tomorrow.  The resolution was tabled after two weeks of negotiations
that failed to produce a consensus among the Security Council’s
15 member governments. In an effort to build support, the
Europeans added language condemning violence against Syrian
security forces and asking “all sides to act with the utmost
restraint.”  Syria ’s government said this week that 120 of its security
personnel were killed in an ambush by “terror groups” in the
northern town of Jisr al-Shughour, a flash point for recent
unrest, and that it will take action against those responsible.
 Agence France-Presse  cited opposition members, whom it didn’t
name, as saying there was a mutiny among security services in
the town, and forces loyal to Assad executed police officers who
refused to open fire on protesters.  Refugees in Turkey  More than 300 Syrians have fled to Turkey in recent days to
seek refuge from the violence in Jisr al-Shughour, the office of
the  United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees  said today.
 Turkey ’s state news agency, Anatolia, reported that many more
are waiting to make the trip if unrest escalates.  “We will be on the right side of history when this comes
to a vote,” U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice said. “Several Security
Council members disingenuously used Libya as an excuse, as a
ploy, to avoid the real issues we are facing in Syria.”  Their arguments “strained credulity, not to mention
morality,” she said.  Rights Violations  The text “condemns the systematic violation of human
rights, including the killings, arbitrary detentions,
disappearances and torture of peaceful demonstrators, human
rights defenders and journalists by the Syrian authorities.”  The draft doesn’t contain, or threaten, UN sanctions.  Syria’s government says Islamists and foreign provocateurs
are behind the uprising. Local reporters operate under
restrictions and members of the foreign media attempting to
report from Syria have been jailed or deported.  Syria also faces referral to the Security Council over a
site destroyed in a 2007 Israeli raid that the U.S. says was a
clandestine nuclear plant designed to build weapons.  European nations joined the U.S. today at the  International
Atomic Energy Agency  in seeking to report Syrian non-compliance
with nuclear-safeguard agreements, according to a two-page
restricted copy of the resolution obtained by Bloomberg News.
The IAEA’s 35-member board of governors is meeting in Vienna and
may vote on the proposal tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner in New York at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at  
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  