-- 
Euro May Fall Versus the Canadian Dollar, Lloyds Says: Technical Analysis

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-06-08T18:43:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/euro-may-fall-versus-loonie-lloyds-says-technical-analysis.html
The euro may fall against  Canada ’s
dollar with a pattern of closing prices showing the shared
currency’s strengthening trend reaching resistance, according
Lloyds Banking Group Plc citing technical analysis.  The pattern of closes in comparison with earlier highs show
the euro-Canada is now “exhausting,” Lloyds technical strategist
Tim McCullough said in a telephone interview. Today’s high
coincided with a short-term pattern saying the rally that
started on May 11 touched a short-term peak, he said.  “The market has now rallied, but the down trend from the
end of 2008 into the middle of 2010 is still intact,” he said.
“That downturn provides a level a resistance on a medium-term
basis. That level comes in at C$1.4391, that’s almost where
we’ve been trading today.”  The euro touched C$1.4380 today, its highest level since
February 2010 against the Canadian dollar. The shared currency
may weaken to C$1.3865 against the Canadian currency, which is
nicknamed the loonie, within the next two weeks and may fall to
C$1.3570 during the next couple of months, McCullough said.  European Central Bank Jean-Claude Trichet this week gave
his first signal that he endorses encouraging investors to buy
new Greek bonds to replace maturing securities, potentially
making the debt situation more sustainable. The euro appreciated
5.5 percent against the Canadian dollar from its May 11 low
through today’s C$1.4380 high.  In  technical analysis , investors study charts of trading
patterns to forecast changes in a currency, commodity, security
or index. Resistance is a level where orders to sell a currency
may be clustered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in  New York  at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  