-- 
European Stocks Drop for Sixth Day; UBS, Kabel Deutschland Slide

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-06-08T15:59:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/european-stock-futures-decline-after-bernanke-kabel-deutschland-may-move.html
European stocks dropped for a sixth
day, their longest losing streak since March, after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  gave no hint that the central
bank will unveil a new round of stimulus.  U.K. stocks extended their loses as Moody’s Investors
Service said the country’s Aaa credit rating will be at risk if
the government misses its debt reduction targets.  UBS AG (UBSN)  dropped
2.1 percent after a report that its investment banking unit will
increase pay to retain senior employees.  Kabel Deutschland
Holding AG (KD8) , Germany’s largest cable operator, slumped 5 percent
after reporting a full-year loss.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid 1.1 percent to 269.01 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in  London . Europe’s benchmark measure has
fallen 7.6 percent since this year’s high on Feb. 17 and is
trading at about 12.9 times its companies’ reported earnings,
near its cheapest valuation since April 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “It looks like this correction will continue for some time
until we have better macro news out of the U.S. and more
certainty on  Europe ’s debt problems,” said Matthias Fankhauser,
a  fund manager  at Clariden Leu AG in Zurich, which oversees $120
billion. “What Bernanke said was quite a disappointment, and
reports that Moody’s may change its view on the U.K. may put
pressure on prices as some investors may trade on this
information.”  Monetary Stimulus  Fed Chairman Bernanke said yesterday that the “uneven”
and “frustratingly slow” economic recovery merits continued
record monetary stimulus. He gave no indication that the central
bank plans a third round of asset purchases known as
quantitative easing, nicknamed “QE3” by investors.  Mortgage applications in the U.S. dropped last week as
purchases fell to a one-month low. The  Mortgage Bankers
Association ’s index decreased 0.4 percent in the period ended
June 3 from the prior week, its second consecutive decline, the
Washington-based group reported today.  Germany ’s industrial production unexpectedly declined for
the first time this year in April, led by a drop in construction
output, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today.  European stocks extended their losses after Moody’s said
that the U.K. could lose its Aaa rating if the government misses
its target to reduce debt as the economy slows.  Fifty-eight percent of Stoxx 600 companies that have
announced earnings since April 11 have topped the average
analyst estimate for per-share profit. National benchmark
indexes declined in all but one of the western European markets
today. Germany’s DAX Index lost 0.6 percent, while the U.K.’s
 FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  retreated 1 percent and  France ’s CAC 40 Index
slid 0.9 percent.  UBS, Mining Companies  UBS fell 2.1 percent to 15.32 Swiss francs as the Financial
Times reported that the bank plans to raise pay to help recruit
and retain senior employees following departures from its
investment banking unit.  BHP Billiton Plc (BLT) , the world’s largest mining company,
dropped 2 percent to 2,295 pence as copper and aluminum fell for
the first time in four days on the London Metal Exchange. Rio
Tinto Group slid 1.2 percent to 4,147 pence.  Kabel Deutschland  sank 5 percent to 42.23 euros after
saying its full-year net loss widened as television customers
taking up Internet and phone services didn’t make up for costs
from refinancing debt. Kabel Deutschland reported a net loss for
the 12 months ended March 31 of 43.5 million euros ($63.4
million), compared with a loss of 40.1 million euros a year
earlier. Kabel incurred 48.8 million euros in costs to refinance
debt.  Nokia, Saab Slump  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  declined 4.2 percent to 4.29 euros after Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. reiterated its underperform rating on the
stock. Shares in the Finnish mobile phone maker have plunged 45
percent this year.  Saab AB (SAABB)  plunged 8.4 percent to 136.50 kronor, its biggest
drop in more than a year, as BAE Systems Plc, Europe’s largest
defense contractor, sold its remaining stake in the Swedish
weapons maker for about $253 million. The sale brings an end to
BAE’s 13-year investment in the maker of the Gripen fighter jet.
BAE’s shares dropped 1.1 percent to 319.5 pence.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  gained 2.3 percent to 48.7 pence.
The British government will change the rules of its  Credit
Guarantee Scheme  to allow banks an early exit from the emergency
support program. The changes allow banks to buy back and cancel
securities issued through the arrangement, the Treasury said in
a statement today.  “That the government is able to do this shows that the
U.K. banking sector is clearly on the mend,” Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  said in the statement.  EON, the Dusseldorf, Germany-based power producer, rose 1
percent to 19.19 euros after Morgan Stanley raised its rating to
“overweight” from “underweight.”  Pandora A/S jumped 4.6 percent to 171.60 kroner. The Danish
maker of jewelry may buy back its own stock to stop the selloff
in its shares and squeeze investors who have shorted the
company, Borsen reported. Pandora has slumped 49 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  