-- 
Debt Crisis Cools Baltic Enthusiasm for Euro

-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e   a n d   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 
2011-06-08T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/european-debt-crisis-cools-baltic-enthusiasm-for-euro-entry.html
Latvia  and Lithuania are becoming
less enthusiastic to follow their Baltic neighbour  Estonia  into
the euro area, potentially delaying the next expansion of the
common currency beyond 2014.  Lithuanian central bank governor Vitas Vasiliauskas,
yesterday said the government’s goal to adopt the euro in three
years is “not something to kill yourself over.” His Latvian
counterpart, Ilmars Rimsevics, on June 7 said that the currency
shouldn’t be introduced “at any price.”  Lithuania, which in 2006 became the only nation rejected
for euro adoption, and Latvia both pledged to follow Estonia,
which introduced the currency this year. The rhetoric is
changing and timetables may be pushed back as the euro region
grapples with its sovereign debt crisis.  “There’s been a change in tone, no more talk about the
targets,” said Jekaterina Rojaka, an economist with DnB Nord AB.
“We hope that these changes won’t have an impact on budget
planning. When the euro isn’t an immediate target, there’s less
incentive to cut the deficit.”  Lithuania’s government should decide when it will adopt the
euro only after meeting all the necessary criteria, as the
situation in the currency union may change, Finance Minister
 Ingrida Simonyte  said last month.  “The costs and benefits of being in the  euro zone  now look
somewhat different to what they seemed a few years ago,”
Simonyte told Ziniu Radijas on May 23.“I’m not sure how much of
these costs are acceptable to us.”  Eastern European Slowdown  Potential entrants outside the Baltic region have also
changed their stance, with  Poland , the  Czech Republic  and
 Hungary  slowing preparations to adopt the euro as the costs of
extending financial support to nations like Greece rise.  Latvia implemented austerity measures equal to about 16
percent of gross domestic product since 2008 and Lithuania’s
budget discipline totalled 12 percent of GDP as their economies
went through the world’s worst recessions.  Both countries opted for the budget cuts to help maintain
currency pegs to the euro before its full adoption. Latvia
received a 7.5 billion-euro ($10.9 billion) bailout loan in 2008
from a group led by the European Commission and the
 International Monetary Fund .  “Euro adoption would mark a successful exit from Latvia’s
ambitious and difficult program,” the International Monetary
Fund said yesterday. “A delay in euro adoption when Latvia is so
close would be a tremendous lost opportunity to eliminate
exchange rate risk and lower borrowing costs.”  ‘Sustainable Finances’  To join the euro, countries must meet targets on inflation,
budget deficits, debt, long-term  interest rates  and exchange-
rate stability. Lithuania still aims to tame inflation and lower
the  budget deficit  to meet the criteria by 2014, Prime Minister
Andrius Kubilius told reporters yesterday.  “Our goal remains the same: to have sustainable finances
and the euro as an instrument in 2014.”  Lithuania’s accelerating inflation, the stumbling block to
euro adoption in 2007, may prevent the country from meeting the
requirements on schedule, central banker Vasiliauskas said
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net 
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  