-- 
European Parliament Approves Bulgarian, Romanian Schengen Bid

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-06-08T12:30:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/european-parliament-approves-bulgarian-romanian-schengen-bid.html
The European Parliament said Romania
and  Bulgaria  have met the conditions to join the Schengen area
and enjoy borderless travel in most of the  European Union .  The Strasbourg-based assembly voted for the two Black Sea
countries admission with 487 to 77 votes with 29 abstentions,
the Parliament said in a statement today. Its decision will be
passed on to EU justice and home affairs ministers meeting
tomorrow in Luxembourg.  The two EU newcomers aspire to join eight other former
communist countries that became  Schengen  members in 2007, as the
world’s biggest trading bloc expands its influence. Their bid
coincides with discussions in  France  and  Denmark  to reintroduce
passport checks at their borders on concerns about an influx of
North African migrants through  Italy .  “Illegal migration makes Bulgaria,  Turkey  and  Greece  one
of the EU’s most sensitive external border areas,” the
statement said.  Countries hoping to join in the Schengen system, named for
the Luxembourg village where the border-free plans were hatched
in 1985, need the unanimous endorsement of those already in,
based on an assessment by the  European Commission , the EU’s
Brussels-based executive arm.  The Parliament urged Bulgaria “to take additional
measures, including a special action plan” to be implemented,
when it joins Schengen, together with Greece and Turkey to cope
with a possible surge in migration pressure, the statement said.  Corruption, Crime  Some countries such as the Netherlands, France and  Germany 
have said the two countries must “ensure the rule of law” and
do more to overcome corruption and organized crime before
joining Schengen. Meeting the technical criteria was not enough,
Dutch Foreign Minister Ben Knapen said in Sofia on May 12.  “Bulgaria and Romania have met all the conditions to gain
Schengen rights,” the Bulgarian government said in a statement
today. “We have introduced the best practices investing
enormous amount of energy and significant financial resources.
Any delays in taking the respective decision would diverge from
the established rules and create a precedent in regard to
previous enlargements.”  EU’s Commission will in July issue its regular monitoring
report assessing Bulgaria’s and  Romania ’s efforts at fighting
crime and corruption, which will enable the countries opposing
their entry to make a decision.  “We’re waiting for a positive signal from tomorrow’s
discussions of the Justice and Home Affairs Council and for a
more specific timetable for our Schengen entry this year,”
Romanian Interior Minister Traian Igas said in an e-mail today.  The two former Soviet bloc countries spent about 1.16
billion euros ($1.69 billion) to beef up their border police and
equip them with patrol boats, helicopters, scanners and night-
vision cameras to ensure security of borders with Turkey,
 Serbia , Moldova and Ukraine and a joint stretch of the Black Sea
coast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  