-- 
Evercore Agrees to Buy Lexicon Partners for 86 Million Pounds

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-06-08T02:03:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/evercore-agrees-to-buy-lexicon-partners-for-86-million-pounds.html
Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , the
investment bank founded by former U.S. Deputy Treasury Secretary
 Roger Altman , agreed to buy advisory firm Lexicon Partners Ltd.  Evercore will purchase London-based Lexicon for 86 million
pounds ($141 million) in cash and Evercore stock, Evercore said
in a statement today. Andrew Sibbald, Lexicon’s co-founder,
would become chief executive officer of New York-based
Evercore’s advisory business in Europe, and Bernard Taylor, the
current CEO of Evercore’s European operations, will continue as
chairman of that division, according to the statement.  Evercore has expanded outside the U.S. through acquisitions
and partnerships. The firm last week announced a strategic
alliance with Seoul-based Woori Investment & Securities Co. In
October, Evercore paid $20 million for a 50 percent stake in G5
Advisors, a Sao Paulo-based investment banking boutique founded
by Corrado Varoli, a former partner at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “Adding to our capabilities in  Europe  has been a very high
strategic priority,” Evercore CEO Ralph Schlosstein said in the
statement. “Lexicon has built a team of exceptional
professionals led by seasoned partners and senior advisers.”  Evercore is among the top mergers-and-acquisitions advisers
in Europe this year, ranking eighth on the financial advisory
league tables. It has advised 10 deals valued at $47.6 billion,
including AT&T Inc.’s $39 billion purchase of  T-Mobile USA , a
unit of Deutsche Telekom AG.  Lexicon provides advisory services for the financial
services, utilities, infrastructure and energy industries,
according to the firm’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: 