-- 
Hewlett-Packard Demands That Oracle Support Intel’s Itanium

-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-06-08T17:40:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/hewlett-packard-sends-letter-demanding-oracle-support-itanium.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  sent a letter to
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  demanding that the software maker keep supporting a
server chip made by  Intel Corp. (INTC) , reiterating its concern that
the move will hurt customers and trammel competition.  Oracle previously had said it would no longer develop
software for Itanium-based servers because the processor is
“nearing the end of its life.” Hewlett-Packard has said the
move would jeopardize customers and cost hundreds of millions of
dollars in lost productivity.  Hewlett-Packard is the main user of Itanium chips in
servers sold to run large corporate databases and other
demanding computing tasks, after jointly developing the chip
with Intel. Oracle is the largest maker of database software and
became a competitor to Hewlett-Packard in servers through its
acquisition of Sun Microsystems and its Sparc range of chips.  Bill Wohl , a spokesman for Palo Alto, California-based
Hewlett-Packard, discussed the letter in an interview. Deborah Hellinger, a spokeswoman for Redwood City, California-based
Oracle, declined to comment.  The letter ratchets up a feud between the two companies.
Oracle Chief Executive Officer Larry Ellison hired former
Hewlett-Packard CEO Mark Hurd last year after criticizing
Hewlett-Packard’s board for how it handled his departure.  Itanium failed to reach Intel’s initial sales targets amid
development delays and slow adoption by computer makers. The
majority of servers use a different line of Intel chips called
Xeon. Hewlett-Packard and Oracle make servers that run on Xeon,
as well as other chips.  Hewlett-Packard rose 1 cent to $35.58 at 1:11 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. Oracle declined 39 cents,
or 1.4 percent, to $31.41 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles@bloomberg.net . 