-- 
Mexico Seeks to Triple Foreign Tourism Revenue, Official Says

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-06-08T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/mexico-seeks-to-triple-foreign-tourism-revenue-official-says.html
Mexico  aims to triple its foreign
tourism revenue in eight years by attracting more visitors to
cultural sites where spending is higher, said Rodolfo Lopez
Negrete, chief operating officer of the  Tourism Board .  The board is targeting an increase in expenditure by non-
Mexican tourists to $40 billion by 2018 from $11.9 billion last
year, and to increase the number of visitors to 50 million from
22.4 million in 2010, he said.  “We recognize and accept that it’s a very ambitious goal,
but we believe we can do it,” Lopez Negrete said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s offices in Mexico City.  Tourism revenue fell 15 percent to $11.3 billion in 2009
from the previous year because of the U.S. recession and a
swine-flu scare. A rebound has been slowed by competition from
U.S. destinations that have cut prices and by “negative news”
on drug-related violence, Lopez Negrete said.  The number of tourists should rise 15 percent this year
from 2010, Lopez Negrete said. He declined to forecast revenue
this year.  General travel advisories on Mexico, especially from the
state of  Texas , hurt U.S. tourism for Spring Break, he said.
Deaths related to organized crime reached 15,273 last year, a 59
percent increase compared with 2009, and total more than 34,000
since President Felipe Calderon took office in 2006, according
to data compiled by the president’s office.  Completely Safe  The violence is confined to about 80 of the country’s 2,500
municipalities, many of them along the U.S.-Mexico border, Lopez
Negrete said. Most major tourism attractions, such as the beach
resorts of Cancun and Los Cabos, remain completely safe, and
there were no incidents of violence involving international
tourists during the Spring Break season this year, Lopez Negrete
said.  To reach the 2018 revenue goal, tourism officials are
trying to attract more visitors from regions outside  North
America , he said. Tourists who visit cultural destinations, such
as the anthropology museum in Mexico City or the Mayan ruins at
Palenque, also tend to stay longer and spend more, he said.  Mexico seeks to increase cultural tourism to about 35
percent of revenue in eight years from about 17 percent now, he
said.  “While our sun and beach destinations continue to be the
backbone of the tourism sector, we believe we have a tremendous
opportunity to promote what we call the cultural destinations,”
Lopez Negrete said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{ Thomas Black } in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  