-- 
Exxon Finds Biggest Oil Field in Gulf of Mexico Since 1999

-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 
2011-06-08T20:12:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/exxon-mobil-reports-3-discoveries-in-gulf-of-mexico.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  announced it found
the equivalent of 700 million barrels of oil beneath the  Gulf of
Mexico , the biggest discovery in the region in 12 years.  The estimated size of the Hadrian field may increase as
drilling continues, Exxon said in a statement today. The
discovery is about 250 miles (400 kilometers) southwest of  New
Orleans  in 7,000 feet of water, Irving, Texas-based Exxon said.  Exploratory drilling began in 2009 at the prospect and the
company had finished two wells when a record oil spill from BP
Plc’s Macondo well last year prompted a U.S. moratorium on deep-
water exploration. Exxon confirmed the find with a third well it
began drilling on March 26 under new government safety rules
designed to protect rig workers and the environment.  Exxon’s Hadrian discovery is the biggest in the Gulf since
BP’s 1 billion-barrel Thunder Horse find in 1999, Mohammad
Rahman, a senior analyst at Wood Mackenzie Ltd. in Houston, said
today in a telephone interview. Exxon engineers now are drilling
deeper on the third Hadrian well, which currently extends 23,000
feet beneath the sea surface, because they believe there is more
oil to be found, company spokesman Patrick McGinn said during an
interview today.  “This is a very, very significant find,” Rahman said.
“When a supermajor like Exxon Mobil throws a number like 700
million at you, it indicates they are very confident in what
they’ve got here.”  Gulf Crude Production  The Gulf accounted for  29 percent  of U.S. crude production
in 2009, according to the Energy Information Administration.
Wells in water 1,000 feet or deeper  accounted for 81 percent  of
the Gulf’s oil output last year, a 10-fold increase from 1991,
according to the Bureau of Ocean Energy.  Exxon rose as much as 2.3 percent, the most since March 21.
The shares gained 76 cents to $80.76 at 4:09 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Exxon has increased 11 percent
this year, exceeding the 10 percent rise in New York crude
futures during the same period.  “This is good news not only for Exxon but for the industry
as a whole because it shows that the deep water still holds
significant promise,”  Gianna Bern , founder of Brookshire
Advisory and Research Inc., a Chicago-based risk-management
adviser, said in a telephone interview.  There were  27 rigs drilling wells  in Gulf waters deeper
than 1,000 feet as of June 6, according to the Bureau of Ocean
Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement, the Interior
Department agency that oversees offshore oil and gas activity.  Moratorium Delay  Exxon could have made the discovery sooner if the
administration of President  Barack Obama  hadn’t been slow to
issue drilling permits after the moratorium was lifted in
October, said Representative  Darrell Issa , a California
Republican who leads the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee. The Bureau of Ocean Energy issued the first new deep-
water drilling permit on Feb. 28, 4 ½ months after the ban
formally ended.  “Today’s announcement is good news, but it cuts both
ways,” Issa said today in an e-mailed statement. “Lost time is
lost opportunity and the economic price has been paid by workers
in the Gulf region and consumers at the gap pump.”  Mostly Oil  Exxon Chief Executive Officer  Rex Tillerson  in March
announced plans to spend $100 million a day for the next half
decade to expand the search for oil and natural gas in geologic
formations previously regarded as impenetrable. The company’s
exploration prospects extend from Greenland to  Madagascar  to
 Vietnam .  The Hadrian field is about 85 percent oil, based on data
from three wells, the company said.  Eni SpA (ENI)  and  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  also hold stakes in the prospect, according to the
release.  Exxon is leasing A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S’s Maersk Developer
rig to drill into Hadrian. The 2-year-old vessel is equipped to
drill as deep as 40,000 feet beneath the sea surface, according
to  RigZone , a research firm that tracks the offshore drilling
industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in  Chicago  at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 