-- 
Facebook to Be Probed in EU for Facial Recognition in Photos

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-06-08T16:54:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/facebook-faces-eu-privacy-probe-over-facial-recognition-photo-tagging-.html
Facebook Inc. will be probed by
European Union data-protection regulators over a feature that
uses face-recognition software to suggest people’s names to tag
in pictures without their permission.  A group of privacy watchdogs drawn from the EU’s 27 nations
will study the measure for possible rule violations, said Gerard
Lommel, a Luxembourg member of the so-called  Article 29  Data
Protection Working Party. Authorities in the U.K. and Ireland
said they are also looking into the photo-tagging function on
the world’s most popular social-networking service.  “Tags of people on pictures should only happen based on
people’s prior consent and it can’t be activated by default,”
said Lommel. Such automatic tagging suggestions “can bear a lot
of risks for users” and the European data-protection officials
will “clarify to Facebook that this can’t happen like this.”  Facebook said yesterday on  its blog  that “Tag
Suggestions” are available in most countries after being phased
in over several months. When a Facebook user adds a photo to
their page, the feature uses facial-recognition software to
suggest names of people in the photo to tag based on pictures in
which they have already been identified. Before the feature was
rolled out, users could tag pictures manually without permission
from their Facebook friends.  Default Setting  The feature is active by default on existing users’
accounts and  Palo Alto ,  California-based Facebook  explains on
its blog how people can disable the function, if they don’t want
their names to be automatically suggested for other people’s
pictures.  “We launched Tag Suggestions to help people add tags of
their friends in photos; something that’s currently done more
than 100 million times a day,” Facebook said in an e-mailed
statement. “Tag suggestions are only made to people when they
add new photos to the site, and only friends are suggested.”  Facebook is among U.S. companies that have faced scrutiny
in the EU for possible privacy breaches.  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  and Yahoo! Inc. have been pushed by European data-
protection officials to limit the amount of time they store
online users’ search records. The group has also criticized
Facebook for policy changes that could harm users’ privacy.  The U.K.’s Information Commissioner’s Office is “speaking
to Facebook” about the privacy aspects of the technology, said
Greg Jones, a spokesman for the group.  “We would expect Facebook to be upfront about how people’s
personal information is being used,” Jones said. “The privacy
issues that this new software might raise are obvious.”  The Irish data-protection authority is also looking into
the issue, said spokeswoman Ciara O’Sullivan.  The Article 29 group guides the work of national data-
protection agencies, which have the power to punish companies
that break privacy rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  