-- 
Falcone’s Harbinger Said to Face $1 Billion in Redemptions

-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 
2011-06-08T19:24:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/falcone-s-harbinger-said-to-face-1-billion-in-redemptions-as-assets-fall.html
Harbinger Capital Partners LLC, the
$6 billion investment firm run by  Philip Falcone , is facing at
least $1 billion in redemptions from its main hedge fund after
assets shrank by almost $2 billion in 2010, according to two
investors.  The main fund had $4.25 billion in assets at the end of
2010, 30 percent less than at the start of the year due to
client withdrawals and losses, according to the people, who
asked not to be identified because the information is private.
Investors, who can pull 25 percent of their money every quarter,
have asked to redeem $1 billion, which would be paid between now
and next March, said the people, who have seen the fund’s
financial statement.  Those who withdrew money at the end of the first quarter
were required to take more than half of their payment in non-
tradable shares of LightSquared Inc., Falcone’s mobile-phone
venture. As of May 26, the shares accounted for 62 percent of
the fund’s assets.  “In light of my high conviction in LightSquared, its size
within our portfolio and the necessity of maintaining a
controlling position while we join forces with a strategic
partner, we have determined to distribute a portion of the
withdrawal proceeds for March 31, 2011, withdrawal requests in-
kind,” Falcone wrote to investors in a letter dated June 6.  Falcone didn’t tell clients whether subsequent redemptions
would also be paid partially with shares of the wireless
network.  Steve Bruce , a spokesman for Harbinger, declined to
comment.  Build-Out Plans  Last year, the main fund’s Class A shares lost 11.5
percent. This year the main fund is up about 2.2 percent,
according to a person familiar with the firm. The firm’s credit
fund, with about $800 million in assets, has climbed 8.5
percent, said the person, who asked not to be identified because
the returns aren’t public.  Falcone entered the telecom business in 2005, when
Harbinger bought shares of a satellite company called SkyTerra
Communications Inc.  That investment became the basis of Reston, Virginia-based
LightSquared, which plans to build a network that would serve
260 million mobile devices using both terrestrial towers and
satellites.  LightSquared needs to raise an additional $3 billion to
fully fund its build-out plan, on top of the $1 billion it has
on hand,  Jonathan Chaplin , a Credit Suisse Group AG analyst in
 New York , said in a May 24 research note.  Sprint Deal  The firm is close to a deal to pay Sprint Nextel Corp. as
much as $20 billion over 15 years to share the cost of building
the network, two people familiar with the talks said last week.  Harbinger has an unfunded commitment of $250 million to
LightSquared, of which the main fund’s share is $175.5 million,
the investors said. If LightSquared sells shares or raises
outside money, the firm’s commitments would be reduced.  Yesterday, 66 U.S. House members said LightSquared’s
planned network may cause “severe interference” with global-
positioning system devices used by aircraft, tractors and
military gear, yesterday.  LightSquared shouldn’t be allowed to proceed until it
demonstrates it won’t interfere with GPS, the lawmakers said in
a letter to Federal Communications Commission Chairman  Julius
Genachowski .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  