-- 
FBI Will Increase Efforts to Battle Computer Hacking, Mueller Testifies

-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 
2011-06-08T17:06:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/fbi-will-focus-on-fighting-computer-hacking-mueller-says.html
The FBI plans to step up its focus on
fighting computer crime as it grapples with cyber intrusions at
companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Sony Corp. (6758)   “We will increasingly put emphasis on addressing cyber
threats in all of their variations,” Robert Mueller, director
of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, said today at a Senate
Judiciary Committee hearing on extending his term.  The FBI and other U.S. law enforcement agencies are
confronting a wave of computer crime that’s highly organized and
hard to combat with traditional methods.  Attacks are coming from organized crime groups based in
Eastern Europe and  Russia , from industrial spies in  China  and
from groups of hackers in the U.S. and elsewhere who seem more
interested in publicity than in making a profit from their
crimes.  The FBI has failed to make arrests in many of the most
high-profile hacking attacks of the past two years.  The FBI will ensure that “the personnel in the bureau have
the equipment, the capability, the skill, the experience to
address those threats,” Mueller told lawmakers.  A review in April by the  Justice Department ’s inspector
general found that some FBI agents who investigate national
security-related computer intrusions lacked needed technical
skills. Of 36 agents interviewed, 13 were deficient in at least
some of the necessary capabilities, according to the inspector
general.  Attempted Hack  Last week, Google revealed an attempted hack, originating
in China, into the Gmail accounts of U.S. government officials,
military personnel and journalists. Days before that, military
contractor  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  said its network had been
penetrated by an unknown intruder.  Cyber thieves stole the account data of 100 million global
customers from Sony computer networks in April, the second-
largest data breach in U.S. history, according to the Open
Security Foundation.  Lawmakers are considering extending Mueller’s term by two
years at the request of President  Barack Obama .  Mueller, 66, took over as FBI director a week before Sept.
11, 2001, and his 10-year term is scheduled to end in September.
Congressional approval is needed to allow him to stay in office.  Nominated by President  George W. Bush , he previously served
as a U.S. attorney in San Francisco and was an officer in the
Marine Corps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Blum in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  