-- 
U.S. Economy ’Steady’ in Most Areas: Fed

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-06-08T19:25:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/fed-regional-poll-shows-u-s-generally-grew-while-slowing-in-some-areas.html
The  Federal Reserve  said the economy
expanded at a “steady pace” in most of the U.S. while slowing
in four of 12 regions as consumers contended with higher food
and fuel prices and shortages of parts reduced auto production.  Reports from the Fed’s district banks “indicated that
economic activity generally continued to expand since the last
report, though a few districts indicated some deceleration,”
the Fed said today in its Beige Book survey of the economy in
Washington.  Manufacturing “continued to expand in most parts of the
country,” while slowing in some areas.  Consumer spending  was
“mixed,” it said, while the job market improved “gradually
across most of the nation.”  The report underscores Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s statement
yesterday that the central bank should maintain record stimulus
to bolster a “frustratingly slow” recovery. He predicted that
the economy will pick up in the second half of the year as
energy prices moderate and factory disruptions ease as suppliers
of parts from Japan recover from an earthquake and tsunami.  Stocks maintained losses after the report, with the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declining 0.5 percent to 1,278.96 at
3:19 p.m. in New York. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note
fell four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 2.96
percent.  Not ‘Booming’  “This really doesn’t sound like the Beige Book of an
economy that is halted and going in reverse,” said John Canally, an economist and investment strategist at Boston-based
LPL Financial Corp. “It’s by no means booming, but it does
sound like the temporary factors are a big part of what we saw
in the data the last six weeks.”  The previous anecdotal survey, released April 13, said that
the economy “generally continued to improve,” and that in most
districts gains were “widespread across sectors.” Today’s
report was compiled by the  New York  Fed based on information
collected before May 27 by the  Fed’s 12 district banks .  The central bank is due to complete $600 billion of
Treasury purchases this month to boost the economy, and Bernanke
has indicated it will continue to reinvest proceeds from
maturing assets to keep its balance sheet from shrinking.  Manufacturers remained “generally optimistic about the
outlook, although less so than the last report,” the Fed said
in its anecdotal survey of the economy released two weeks before
meetings of the policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee .  Estimates Pared  Economists have pared their estimates for growth,
forecasting the world’s largest economy will expand at a 2.7
percent annual pace this year, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey conducted from May 2 to May 12. That
compares with a 2.9 percent median projection in April.  The slowing economy has pushed Treasury yields near their
lowest levels of the year. The 10-year yield has fallen from the
2011 high of 3.74 percent on Feb. 8.  History shows that recoveries take longer when they follow
financial crises, according to the 2009 book “This Time Is
Different: Eight Centuries of Financial Folly,” by economists
 Carmen Reinhart  and  Kenneth Rogoff . The authors traced
similarities among crises in 66 countries dating back to
Medieval times, including government defaults, banking panics
and inflationary surges.  Tornadoes, Floods  Today’s  Beige Book  report portrayed the economy weathering
the tornadoes and flooding in the South. The Atlanta Fed said
that “the late April tornadoes in several states and flooding
on the lower  Mississippi River  had a significant impact on
economic activity in the directly affected areas, but no major
damage to the energy or transportation infrastructure was
reported.”  Manufacturing expanded in all but two districts, “although
many noted that the pace of growth had slowed,” the report
said. “Activity in the non-financial service sectors continued
to strengthen in most Districts, with the notable exception of
 St. Louis , which reported fairly widespread declines.”  Supply disruptions following the earthquake and tsunami in
Japan reduced the flow of new automobiles and held down sales in
some districts, the report said. High-tech firms in Dallas and
 Boston  reported shortages of parts following the disaster. The
Atlanta district noted that lost production would likely be made
up later in the year.  Commodities Costs  Manufacturing expanded in May at the slowest pace in more
than a year, reflecting higher costs of commodities and an
interruption in the supply of parts after  Japan ’s earthquake,
according to a report from the  Institute for Supply Management .  “Most Districts reported gradual improvement in labor
market conditions since their last reports,” the Fed said, and
six districts, including Boston and  San Francisco , said the
labor market has “tightened for workers with specialized
technical skills, particularly in the healthcare and technology
sectors.”  Honda Motor Co., Japan’s third-largest carmaker, said May
27 that its North America and China vehicle production will
return to normal in August as parts suppliers recover from
Japan’s earthquake. In the U.S., only production of Honda’s
Civic cars will continue to be slowed by limited supplies of
some parts, the Tokyo-based company said in a statement.
Production of the 2012 Civic, which went on sale in April, will
be at about 50 percent, it said.  Jobless Rate Climbs  The  unemployment rate  unexpectedly climbed to 9.1 percent
in May and payrolls grew at the slowest pace in eight months, a
Labor Department report showed last week. Employers added a
less-than-projected 54,000 jobs last month, after a revised
232,000 gain in April that was smaller than initially estimated.
The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called for
payrolls to rise 165,000.  “Wage pressures were reported to be largely contained in
most Districts, as abundant labor availability has continued to
limit the pace of wage growth,” the Fed said.  Prices for producers “continued to increase in most
regions,” the report said, while prices for consumers
“increased only modestly, except for food and energy prices,
which continued to escalate.”  The Fed’s preferred price measure, which excludes food and
fuel, was up 1 percent from a year earlier in April. Including
all items, prices rose 2.2 percent. A separate measure from the
Bureau of Labor Statistics shows prices rose 3.2 percent in
April, the most since October 2008.  The report noted that “residential real estate sales
markets showed continued weakness in most Districts, while
rental markets strengthened.”  “No district indicates a general increase in  home
prices ,” the Fed said.  The FOMC next meets June 21-22 in  Washington  and Bernanke
is scheduled to hold his second press conference following the
FOMC’s statement on June 22, just a week before the scheduled
end of the central bank’s $600 billion bond purchase program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  