-- 
Fed’s Hoenig Urges Return to 1% Interest Rate Within a Year

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-06-08T19:49:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/fed-s-hoenig-urges-return-to-1-interest-rate-within-a-year-1-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
President  Thomas Hoenig , the U.S. central bank’s longest-serving
policy maker, urged the Fed to raise its target short-term
interest rate to 1 percent over the next year and to shrink its
record balance sheet to prevent inflation and asset-price
bubbles.  “‘Zero is not the right rate, that much I am pretty
confident of,’’ Hoenig said today in Steamboat Springs,
Colorado. ‘‘We have to begin the process of rationalizing our
credit system’’ by tightening policy ‘‘so we don’t build and
facilitate the building of imbalances and long-term risk of
inflationary problems.’’  Hoenig, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year, has
repeatedly urged the central bank to tighten monetary policy to
prevent inflation from accelerating and asset price bubbles from
emerging. He voted eight straight times in 2010 against record
monetary stimulus led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , tying former
Governor Henry Wallich’s record in 1980 for most dissents in a
single year.  Fed officials are discussing how quickly to begin
tightening after completing the purchase of $600 billion in U.S.
Treasuries this month, even as recent economic reports have
shown a slowing in economic growth. Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
yesterday said that the central bank should maintain record
stimulus to bolster a ‘‘frustratingly slow” recovery.  ‘Modest’ Expansion  Hoenig, by contrast, described the two-year expansion as
“modest” yet “sustainable” and attributed its slowness to a
debt overhang facing consumers and governments.  “We are still easing into a recovery as we speak,” Hoenig
said. “ If you wait too long, you create the conditions that
bring forward the bubbles that undermine the long-term ability
of the economy to provide jobs for America.”  Hoenig cited asset price risks from rising farmland values
and from technology stocks, citing recent initial public
offerings he didn’t name.  In response to audience questions, Hoenig said he would
tighten policy in several steps, starting with a removal of the
Fed policy committee’s promise to keep rates near zero for “an
extended period,” then a stop to reinvesting proceeds for
maturing assets on its balance sheet as a way of passively
shrinking its holdings.  While he said there is no “silver bullet” for the
nation’s debt issues, he urged Congress to move quickly to
address rising deficits.  ‘Debt Crisis’  “We have a debt crisis,” Hoenig said. “The sooner you
deal with it, the better for everyone. I think every player in
Congress knows that and hopefully they will come to a compromise
that begins to address the issue systemically.”  Hoenig in March announced plans to retire on Oct. 1 after a
20-year career as leader of the Kansas City Fed. He is required
under internal Fed rules to retire at age 65, an age he will
reach in September.  His visit to Steamboat Springs also included a tour of a
bicycle factory and briefings from local business people on the
 Colorado  economy. Such visits provide knowledge of local
business conditions that supplement economic data, Hoenig said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  