-- 
FIFA Corruption Threatens Tax Privileges as Switzerland Examines Payments

-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-06-09T09:33:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/fifa-corruption-threatens-tax-privileges-as-switzerland-examines-payments.html
Soccer’s  governing body is in danger
of losing its tax benefits in  Switzerland  because of accusations
that officials bought and sold votes, a blow that would cut into
FIFA’s $1.3 billion in annual revenue.  The organization is a tax-privileged association in
Switzerland, a designation shared by yodeling and folk dance
clubs. FIFA may lose that status after accusations of bribery
and vote buying.  The country spent the past two years trying to end its
image as a haven for tax dodgers. Now Swiss lawmakers have
passed a motion, written by an ex-employee of FIFA’s former
marketing partner, demanding that FIFA change its operations and
reform by the end of this year or face new legislation on its
tax breaks.  “They’re a big company in the international entertainment
business,” said  Roland Rino Buechel , the member of Parliament
for the  Swiss People’s Party  who wrote the proposal. “The legal
status they have is a very advantageous one. It’s like a sixth-
division football club, or a fisherman’s association: they have
the same law and this gives them many advantages. It shouldn’t
be like this anymore.”  The motion, which is the first step to revise a law, was
accepted by the government in March and kick-started a review by
officials. The sports ministry will publish a report by the end
of this year and make recommendations.  FIFA moved to Zurich in 1932. Its president,  Sepp Blatter ,
75, was backed last week for a fourth term by 92 percent of  FIFA 
delegates in a vote overshadowed by the suspension of his
opponent for alleged bribery.  ‘Embarrassing’  “FIFA’s reputation is now at an all-time low and obviously
the election with just one candidate was something of a farce,”
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  told lawmakers on June 8,
according to the  Associated Press . “They have got to prove that
they are actually capable of doing the job.”  The vote for Blatter came after accusations of improper
requests by FIFA officials in the run-up to the selection of the
hosts for the 2018 and 2022 World Cups. The scandal forced
Blatter to propose measures to improve the Zurich-based group’s
governance structures.  “FIFA is a gang of hoodlums, it’s an embarrassing
organization,” said Hans-Peter Margulies, a retired lawyer from
Zurich, while shopping on Bahnhofstrasse, the city’s ritziest
shopping street. “It’s not compulsory for FIFA to leave
Switzerland, but it should be treated like any other commercial
organization and not like an exception.”  World Cup  Sponsors, including  Adidas AG (ADS)  and Visa Inc., are getting
anxious.  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  last week called the bribery allegations
“distressing and bad” for soccer and the World Cup, which
brings in $4 billion for FIFA.  The displeasure increased in the past six months as 10
members of FIFA’s 24-member executive committee were suspended
or accused of improper behavior. Qatar, the surprise choice to
host the 2022 World Cup, has denied suggestions that it bribed
delegates ahead of the vote.  Mohamed Bin Hammam, the Qatari head of  Asia ’s governing
body, withdrew his candidacy for FIFA’s presidency on May 29, a
day before being suspended with FIFA Vice President Jack Warner
amid accusations the duo conspired to buy votes.  FIFA makes money by selling marketing and television rights
for the World Cup. Two years ago, annual sales at soccer’s
ruling body surpassed $1 billion for the first time in its then
106-year  history .  Change Governance?  Buechel, who worked with marketing partner ISL for a year
before its bankruptcy, wants sponsors and the 208 member-nations
to pressure FIFA management to change its governance before
Swiss officials have to act. Any new legislation also could
affect Swiss-based organizations including the  International
Olympic Committee  and  UEFA ,  Europe ’s soccer body. Switzerland’s
location at the heart of Europe and low taxes makes it
attractive to such agencies.  “Let’s give them a chance, and if we’re not satisfied by
the end of the year, we will change the laws,” Buechel said in
a telephone interview from Oberriet, Switzerland.  Zurich’s government also is reviewing FIFA’s status after
three Zurich Social Democrats questioned last month whether FIFA
is “abusing association law” and should pay taxes like
commercial organizations, the leader of the initiative, Peter
Schulthess, said in a telephone interview.  Kissinger, Domingo  FIFA said in a June 7 e-mailed statement that it is
adhering to Swiss taxation rules for associations, which grants
tax reductions, and added that it isn’t exempt from taxes on
income and capital.  FIFA said  it spent $1.3 billion on the  World
Cup  in  South Africa  and spent $794 million on development
between 2007 and 2010.  Blatter said at a June 1 press conference in Zurich that
FIFA will become more transparent. He asked former U.S.
Secretary of State  Henry Kissinger , 88, who helped reform the
IOC after a bribery scandal, to sit on an advisory panel to help
with corporate governance and ethics. Opera singer Placido Domingo, 70, had been invited to join as well, Blatter said in
an interview with  CNN .  “We are going to create more transparency,” Blatter said.
“We are ready to move forward.”  Still, FIFA is fighting the publication of court documents
linked to the corruption case against ISL, according to the
prosecutor’s office of the Swiss canton of Zug. The documents,
which journalists asked to be released last year, name two
people within FIFA who received bribes and described the role of
FIFA executives who tolerated the payoffs, newspaper
Handelszeitung reported on May 31, without saying where it
obtained the information. FIFA declined to comment on the case.  Neutrality, Secretiveness  “For years Switzerland felt privileged for being domicile
to global organizations such as IOC and FIFA, but in times of
increasing transparency and accountability the opaque and
scandal-ridden FIFA highlights the downside of the country’s
neutrality and secretiveness,” said Bernhard Bauhofer, founder
of Sparring Partners GmbH, which advises financial companies on
managing their reputations.  The criticism stretches to Zurich’s shops and bars, where
people discuss whether the organization should find a new host.  “FIFA is an institution to manage this sport, and they
should remember that,” said Montse Cortes, 37, as she watched
Barcelona’s victory over  Manchester United  in last month’s
 Champions League  final. “It has more power and money than a lot
of countries on this world: this is sad.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  