-- 
Fifty States, One U.S. Immigration Law, a Big Unraveling: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-08T22:42:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/fifty-states-one-u-s-immigration-law-a-big-unraveling-view.html
A new law in  Alabama  authorizes
police to stop and demand identification from anyone who looks
like a possible illegal immigrant. The law also orders public
schools to check the immigration status of their students. In
 Georgia , a new law cracks down on employers who evade federal
requirements that they make sure of the citizenship of people
they hire.  The Georgia law even overcame the opposition of the state’s
powerful agricultural lobby. Farmers now wonder how the crops
will be harvested on Georgia farms if illegal workers depart for
other locales. And the public anxiety over immigration isn’t
limited to the South.  In Massachusetts last week, the state Senate passed a bill
similar to the one in Georgia -- even as  Massachusetts  Governor
Deval Patrick moved in the opposite direction, joining governors
in  New York  and  Illinois  in refusing to participate in the
federal Secure Communities program that uses local police to
check for immigration violations.  Meantime, the U.S. Supreme Court sided with the state of
 Arizona  in a 5-3 decision last month, endorsing the use of its
licensing authority to penalize and even shutter businesses that
employ illegal immigrants. Arizona has lost millions of dollars
in tourism and convention business because of a law similar to
the new one in Alabama, empowering police to stop almost anyone
and ask for proof that he or she is entitled to be in the U.S.  Government Crackdown  The last time Congress fully took on the subject of
immigration was 1986. The  Immigration Reform and Control Act  of
that year declared that “the immigration laws of the  United
States  should be enforced vigorously and uniformly.” For many
years thereafter, those laws weren’t enforced vigorously. As the
proliferation of state laws attests, they are no longer enforced
uniformly, either.  The state efforts come just as the federal government has
begun taking the law seriously. In addition to deporting record
numbers of illegal immigrants, the Obama administration in
recent months has cracked down on  Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG) 
and other food chains reputed to employ large numbers of illegal
laborers. No doubt the targeted companies were surprised to see
the law being enforced.  The nation’s immigration policy is a mess of conflicting
state and federal laws and policies, and often ignored in
practice. Easier said than done, we know, but President  Barack Obama  has little choice but to try to lay the political and
legislative groundwork for a new national immigration system. He
will get no help from Republicans in Congress, which is why he’s
going to have to make his case in a more sustained way.  Mending Fractures  An election year is probably not the best time for this
undertaking, but given the pace of devolution, he really doesn’t
have many alternatives. What’s more, when it comes down to it,
mending the nation’s fractures is uniquely a president’s job.  In a subsequent editorial, we’ll explain our support for a
national policy that includes a strong enforcement provision,
which is needed to ease the political pressure driving the state
efforts, and a pathway to legalization, which is a necessary
accommodation to realism, economic growth and the humane
standards to which the U.S. adheres.  A federal law that for years went largely unenforced has
produced angry recriminations. A patchwork of state laws born of
frustration is likely to produce something considerably worse.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 