-- 
Ford, Sollers Sign Agreement on Car Production Venture in Russia

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-06-08T15:20:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/ford-sollers-sign-agreement-to-produce-350-000-cars-in-russia.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  and OAO Sollers,
Russia’s second-biggest automaker, signed an agreement today to
produce cars in Russia to expand in a market that grew 60
percent in the first five months of the year.  Production may reach 350,000 vehicles a year in 2015,
Sollers Chief Executive Officer Vadim Shvetsov told reporters
today at a signing ceremony attended by Prime Minister  Vladimir
Putin  in Moscow. The partners will also build a factory to make
200,000 engines a year, he said.  The joint venture will assemble six Ford models, including
the Focus, Mondeo, Transit and new models to be launched in 2012
to 2014, according to a Russian government factsheet distributed
to reporters. In six years, at least 60 percent of the
components will be made locally.  “There will be a number of new models, some of which will
be exclusively built in  Russia ,” Stephen Odell, Ford’s European
chief, told reporters.  Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford and Sollers also signed a
letter of intent today with VEB, Russia’s state development
bank, for a 39 billion-ruble loan ($1.4 billion) to develop the
project. Total investment is estimated to reach 74.5 billion
rubles, according to the government.  By the middle of the decade, Russia’s car market may exceed
4 million vehicles, making it the largest in  Europe , Odell said.  Russia’s sales of new car and light commercial vehicles
expanded 60 percent in the first five months through May to
989,013 units, the Association of European Businesses said
today. The group last month raised its full-year forecast to
2.35 million vehicles and said today it may boost it again.  Sollers dropped a planned partnership with Fiat, agreeing
in February to set up the 50-50 venture with Ford, the second-
largest U.S. automaker, because of the importance of
distribution as well as an industrial alliance, the Moscow-based
company said at the time.  Sollers is ready to produce Fiat cars while its plants have
free capacity, Shvetsov said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  