-- 
France, U.S. Reject International Nuclear-Safety Oversight

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-06-08T14:42:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/france-u-s-reject-international-nuclear-safety-oversight.html
Regulators from the U.S. and  France 
rejected calls to make peer reviews of nuclear safety
inspections mandatory and give an international body oversight
of atomic power plants.  At the same time nuclear watchdogs need more independence
to ensure they’re free from political interference, the
officials said today at a press conference in Paris, where
regulators from about 37 countries met for the first time since
the Fukushima atomic plant disaster.  Japan said yesterday it will separate its atomic regulator
from the ministry charged with promoting nuclear energy as part
of a “fundamental revision” of safety after meltdowns
triggered by a March 11 earthquake and tsunami. European Union
countries have agreed to carry out so-called stress tests on
reactors since the accident.  The scale of the Fukushima disaster was “a shock” and
signified a “collective failure,” said Andre-Claude Lacoste,
the head of the Autorite de Surete Nucleaire, the watchdog in
France, where reactors supply three-quarters of power needs.  Lacoste headed a peer review of  Japan ’s nuclear regulatory
system in 2007, which found it to be “complex,” he said.  “For the moment in most big countries the regulatory
system is working well,” he said.  Independence is a “vital element” both “in law and in
fact,” said Mike Weightman, the U.K.’s chief inspector of
nuclear installations.  Group of Eight leaders meeting in Deauville, France, last
month agreed to consider tougher standards for building and
operating nuclear power plants in areas that may be prone to
events like earthquakes and called for an “effective peer
review mechanism” of safety.  Making peer reviews mandatory would be a “very difficult
endeavor,” said  Gregory Jaczko , chairman of the U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission.  “The fundamental focus for regulation has to come from
domestic regulators,” he said. “The responsibility will always
remain a domestic national responsibility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  