-- 
Freight Traders Luring Hedge Funds to Expand Market

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-06-08T09:13:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/freight-traders-lure-hedge-funds-with-screens-to-expand-24-billion-market.html
The new freight derivatives trading
screen from the Baltic Exchange, a 267-year-old bourse that sets
global shipping prices, will attract hedge funds and expand the
$24 billion market,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Cargill Inc. said.  Baltex starts today after a three-year development and
resistance from some brokers, who currently use phones to carry
out about 95 percent of trading in forward freight agreements on
future transport costs. It will improve pricing and attract more
investors, said officials from Citigroup and Cargill, which have
a combined 40 percent share of the FFA market.  Greater participation from hedge funds may help reverse the
decline in the value of the market, which was worth as much as
$35 billion in 2009. That mirrors the slump in freight rates as
a glut of capacity overwhelmed the rebound in demand for
commodities as economies recovered from the worst global
recession since World War II.  “You will increase the number of traders, the number of
positions, and ultimately you will increase volatility,” said
Philippe van den Abeele, the managing director of Castalia Fund
Management (U.K.) Ltd., a London-based adviser to a hedge fund
trading shipping derivatives. The new platform may control about
a third of the market 18 months from now, he said.  Shipping rates are already volatile. Returns for owners of
capesizes, typically hauling coal and iron ore, gained as much
as 60 percent and fell as much as 68 percent last year,
according to data from the  Baltic Exchange , which publishes
daily rates for about 50 maritime routes.  Baltex executed its first trade and companies signed up to
the system include Morgan Stanley and shipping hedge fund M2M
Management Ltd., the Baltic Exchange said in a statement today.  FFA Prices  While Baltex will increase confidence in FFA prices, it
will take time for volumes to expand, said Michael McGovern, a
London-based commodities vice president at Citigroup, the third-
largest U.S. bank.  “This expected growth in volume is very important to
Cargill to aid the risk management of our increasing physical
business,” said Andy James, London-based head of derivatives
and the ocean-transportation unit at Cargill, the largest
closely held U.S. company.  Cargill Ocean Transportation now operates more than 350 dry
bulk carriers at any one time, according to its website.  Global trade in  iron ore , coal, grains and other
commodities will expand 4 percent to almost 3.3 billion metric
tons this year, according to Clarkson Research Services Ltd., a
unit of the world’s biggest shipbroker.  Regulatory Scrutiny  Some FFA brokers resisted Baltex, said Jeremy Penn, chief
executive officer of the Baltic Exchange, which provides the
indexes against which the contracts are settled. Work was halted
in 2008 and resumed a year later because of demand from funds
and ship owners and increased regulatory scrutiny of over-the-
counter trading, he said.  Almost all FFA trading is done through brokers by phone,
with about 5 percent on proprietary systems, according to Tom Cutler, chief analyst with SwissMarine Services. The Geneva-
based freight trader operates 65 capesize vessels, he said.  The screen will cut down the need for traders to gather
prices from several brokers at the same time, said Van den
Abeele of Castalia, who is also head of a traders’
representative group at the Baltic Exchange.  Baltex has competition from Singapore-based Cleartrade
Exchange Pte, whose screens giving prices for iron ore, steel,
freight and fertilizer derivatives went live June 2.  “There will be more players in the market, and the players
will be voting for their preferences,” said Professor Nikos
Nomikos, who teaches shipping and commodities trading and risk
management at Cass Business School in  London . “You’re going to
have a faster adjustment to the fundamentals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  