-- 
Fusion-io Advances After Pricing Shares Above Range in $233.7 Million IPO

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-06-09T21:40:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/fusion-io-raises-233-7-million-in-u-s-initial-public-offering.html
Fusion-io Inc., the maker of flash-
memory technology for companies including Facebook Inc., surged
on its first day of trading after pricing its shares above the
proposed range in an initial public offering.  The stock, listed under the symbol FIO, rose $3.50, or 18
percent, to close at $22.50 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The Salt Lake City-based company raised $233.7 million
in its IPO, selling 12.3 million shares for $19 each, according
to a statement yesterday.  Fusion-io, founded in 2005, is one of at least four
Internet or technology companies scheduled to price U.S. IPOs in
the next two weeks, Bloomberg data show. The company, whose
biggest client is Facebook, is benefitting from a shift among
corporations to flash memory from traditional storage drives.
Flash has no moving parts and can access data faster than disks.  “It must be the Facebook effect,” said Darren Fabric, a
Chicago-based managing director at IPOX Capital Management LLC,
which oversees about $2.5 billion and bought shares in the IPO.
“Usually when you have concentrated revenues, it’s kind of
high-risk, but if your largest customer is Facebook, people look
at it as a positive.”  The company increased its IPO price range June 7 to $16 to
$18 after previously asking as much as $15 a share. At today’s
closing price, the company’s market value is $1.75 billion.  Facebook, Apple  Facebook, owner of the world’s biggest social network,
accounted for 47 percent of Fusion-io’s revenue in the nine
months ended March 31.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is also a customer, Fusion-
io’s filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
said. Stephen Wozniak, a co-founder of Apple in 1976, is Fusion-
io’s chief scientist.  Customers are “using this and saying it’s really changing
the way they do business,” Chief Executive Officer David Flynn
said in an interview today. The IPO “gives us the resources we
need to continue our growth and accelerate that growth.”  Fusion-io has 1,500 customers, said Flynn, who pared his
stake in the company to about 8 percent after the offering from
10 percent. The top shareholders are venture firms  New
Enterprise Associates  and Lightspeed Venture Partners, according
to the filing.  Fusion-io sold 10.8 million shares in the offering, while
existing stockholders sold 1.54 million. Proceeds will be used
to expand its sales force, develop new products and possibly buy
or invest in technology or other assets, the IPO prospectus
showed.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Morgan Stanley,  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  managed the offering.  Tech Offerings  Taomee Holdings Ltd., the Shanghai-based operator of an
entertainment website for children, slid 8.6 percent to $8.23
after raising $64.7 million in its U.S. IPO yesterday. The
company sold 7.19 million American depositary receipts at $9
each after offering them for as much as $11, according to a
statement.  Each of Taomee’s ADRs represents 20 ordinary shares of the
company. The stock is listed on the NYSE under the ticker TAOM.
Credit Suisse and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  led the Taomee offering.  Pandora Media Inc., the Internet-radio company, plans to
raise as much as $123.2 million in an IPO next week that would
value the company at as much as $1.3 billion, according to its
SEC filing and data compiled by Bloomberg.  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
JPMorgan and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  are leading the offering.  Bankrate Inc., the online provider of interest-rate
information, seeks $320 million in an IPO next week that would
return it to public ownership after a 2009 private equity
takeover by Apax Partners LLP. Goldman Sachs and  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  are managing the deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net .
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  