-- 
Gap Bonds Sink While Swaps Soar to Record Amid Profit Decline

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-06-08T19:25:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/gap-bonds-sink-while-swaps-soar-to-record-as-inflation-slashes-earnings.html
Derivatives traders and bond
investors are losing confidence in  Gap Inc. (GPS)  as the largest U.S.
apparel chain faces declining profit amid what the company said
are the worst inflationary pressures in three decades.  Credit-default swaps on Gap soared to the highest ever
today, according to data provider CMA. The San Francisco-based
company’s 5.95 percent bonds due in 2021, the second-most
actively traded today, fell 1 cent to 96.625 cents on the dollar
at 1:47 p.m., the lowest since they were issued in April,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Gap Chief Executive Officer Glenn Murphy told CNBC today
the company is facing inflationary pressure not seen in 30
years. The company cut its full-year profit forecast by 22
percent last month, saying expenses per unit will rise 20
percent in the second half, outweighing price increases.
 Barclays Capital  cut its “overweight” rating on the company’s
shares to “equal weight” today, citing “disappointing”
first-quarter business trends and losses from  Japan .  “They had some tough quarterly numbers recently,” said
 Sabur Moini , a  money manager  who oversees about $2.3 billion of
high-yield debt at Los Angeles-based Payden & Rygel, including
Gap debt. “Retail in general has been under some pressure. If
the data continues to be weak, if employment data is weak and
confidence is declining, retail and consumer names will get
hit.”  Reports last week showed manufacturing in May expanded at
the slowest pace in 20 months, unemployment rose to 9.1 percent
and  consumer confidence  fell to a six-month low.  `Sound Financial Policy'           “We remain committed to maintaining a sound financial
policy, strong credit profile and focus on liquidity,” Louise Callagy, a Gap spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. “At
some point, likely 2012, we believe we will turn the corner on
these high cotton prices. This, coupled with the work we have
done to streamline our operations and drive our growth
initiatives, will fuel the opportunity to get back to 2010
operating margin levels over time.”  Callagy said the company’s strategy is unchanged and it
believes “strongly in a balanced approach of managing the short
term against our long term plan. Because of our strong financial
health, our ability to consistently generate  cash flow  and our
history of financial discipline, we will deploy designated
growth capital as planned while managing the short term
inflationary pressures. We are clear on our priorities and what
it will take to drive improvements in North America as well as
capitalize on our global growth opportunity over the long
term.”  ‘Flagship Revamp’  Comments Murphy made at a Piper Jaffray Cos. conference
today may also have resulted in investors showing “disdain for
the bonds,” according to Interactive Brokers Group LLC in
Greenwich,  Connecticut .  “Mr. Murphy spoke Wednesday saying the company didn’t get
enough breaks considering its size and said as a result he’s
turning his nose up at some vendors in order to perhaps get a
better deal in the future,”  Andrew Wilkinson , a senior market
analyst at Interactive Brokers Group, wrote in a note. “He also
’fessed up to mistakes at the clothing retailer adding the cure
for ailing sales is a flagship revamp in  North America .”  Credit-default swaps on Gap’s debt, which typically fall as
investor confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates,
climbed 7.8 basis points to 218 basis points as of 12:28 p.m. in
New York, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. The contracts are up from 98.5
basis points at the end of last year.  Surging Cotton Costs  Fiscal 2011 profit will be as much as $1.50 a share,
according to Gap, which previously forecast a maximum of $1.93 a
share.  The apparel industry is raising prices amid surging cotton
costs and increased pay for workers who make clothes in  China 
and other parts of  Asia .  That’s pressuring bonds from investment-grade consumer
cyclical and auto companies, which have seen relative yields
rise to 120 basis points as of yesterday from 114 basis points
at the end of last year, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data.  That compares with spreads on overall investment-grade
debt, which have narrowed to 160 basis points yesterday from 166
basis points at the end of 2010, the index data show.  ‘Well-Managed Retailer’  Gap’s senior unsecured notes are rated Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BB+ by  Standard & Poor’s . Proceeds from
the bonds may be used for share repurchases, Moody’s said in an
April 7 note.  Even with the sales declines, Gap is a “well-managed
retailer,” according to George Ashur, managing director of
credit strategy at Societe Generale SA. Gap’s $1.25 billion of
5.95 percent notes due 2021 represent “attractive value for
cross-over buyers in the present market,” he wrote in a note
yesterday.  The bonds had 25 trades of $1 million or more, trailing 26
trades of Teleflex Inc., Trace data show.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  Gap declined 2.2 percent to $17.52 at 1:48 p.m. in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares had dropped 19.1
percent this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  