-- 
GE Capital Prepared for Fed’s Funding Requirement, CFO Says

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-06-08T20:29:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/ge-capital-prepared-for-fed-s-funding-requirement-cfo-says-1-.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  said its finance
units are well prepared for Federal Reserve oversight starting
in July and are still discussing exact  capital requirements  with
the regulator.  GE Capital  Services, and its main lending entity, GE
Capital Corp., should both have so-called Tier-1 common capital
ratios above 9 percent in the second quarter, Chief Financial
Officer Keith Sherin said at the JPMorgan Chase & Co.
industrials conference in  New York  today. GE Capital has said it
expects specific requirements by year-end.  “We don’t have anything definitively agreed to or
completed,” Sherin said. “We’re not a bank, yet we believe we
are going to be systemically important.”  Whether the finance unit will be required to reach the
standard ratio of total capital to lending assets of about 10
percent for banks the U.S. deems  “well capitalized”  is
unclear, Sherin said. The unit, which is shrinking its balance
sheet and contribution to the Fairfield, Connecticut-based
parent company’s profit while bolstering  capital ratios , would
be able to meet that standard if required, he said.  GE Capital’s funding requirements will be a consideration
in determining when to resume its payout to the parent company,
known as the GE Capital dividend, Sherin said. The company still
expects to be able to do that in 2012, he said. Tier 1 Capital
is a measurement used by regulators to gauge financial strength.  “We’re going to be well capitalized out of the chute for
whatever the targets,” Sherin said. “I think we can handle
what’s being discussed today, and maybe it’s not going to be
quite that level when we get everything said and done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  