-- 
GE Said to Discuss Junior Credit Loans With Private-Equity Firms

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-06-08T19:03:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/ge-said-to-discuss-junior-credit-loans-with-private-equity-firms.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  is in talks with
private-equity firms to create a stand-alone $600 million
lending pool to serve corporate borrowers seeking unsecured
credit, a person familiar with the plan said.  GE Capital  would get a referral fee for steering customers
to the investors running the pool, said the person, who asked
not to be identified because details aren’t final. While GE
Capital would vet borrowers through its underwriting process, it
wouldn’t invest in the fund, the person said.  Corporate loans by GE Capital typically have senior secured
status, so GE is the first payee or has rights to the collateral
in the event of a default. The new program would provide so-
called junior credit financing, which would be unsecured loans
to companies deemed a good credit risk, the person said.  No decision has been reached on whether to proceed with the
fund, said the person, who declined to name any of the firms
involved in talks with Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE about
creating the lending pool.  GE Capital is one of the biggest lenders to middle-market
U.S. companies with annual sales of $50 million to $1 billion. A
survey last month found that small and midsize U.S. companies
plan to boost their workforces an average 6 percent in the next
year as confidence strengthens in an economic rebound.  GE Capital Commercial Lending & Leasing had an 83 percent
increase in overall volume in the Americas in the first quarter,
Dan Henson, who oversees the finance division in the Americas,
said in an interview in May.  In the  first quarter , the commercial lending unit more than
doubled its worldwide profit to $554 million, on $4.61 billion
in revenue. The unit had $197.5 billion in assets as of March
31, according to a GE  filing  with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  The possibility of GE lining up an outside lending source
for so-called junior debt was reported earlier today by the New
York Post.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  