-- 
General Growth Monitoring Westfield Malls Sales Before Choosing Strategy

-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-06-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/general-growth-watching-westfield-sales-before-deciding-on-plan-ceo-says.html
General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP)  Chief
Executive Officer Sandeep Mathrani said he’s watching rival mall
owner  Westfield Group (WDC) ’s planned sale of 17 U.S. properties
before choosing a strategy for trimming his company’s holdings.  “We want to evaluate what they do to decide in which
direction we head,” Mathrani said in an interview yesterday at
a National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts
conference in  New York . “We do want to pare down the number of
assets we have.”  Mathrani said if Sydney-based Westfield sells properties at
a capitalization rate of 7 percent, “I’m going to sell,” and
if it’s 9 percent, “I’ll re-evaluate.” Capitalization rates
fall as prices rise. The investment-yield measure is calculated
by dividing net operating income by purchase price.  Westfield, which also owns malls in the U.K.,  Australia  and
 New Zealand , plans to sell some properties, mainly in the U.S.,
 Peter Lowy  said in a February interview. He became co-CEO of the
world’s biggest shopping-center owner in March.  “We think the market is good to be able to recycle
capital,” Mark Stefanek, Westfield’s chief financial officer
for the U.S., said during a presentation at the conference
yesterday. The company is marketing 17 properties in the U.S.
and, with General Growth also considering sales, “I’d rather be
out there first than not,” he said in an interview.  Offices, Strip Malls  At General Growth, the second-largest U.S. mall owner,
Mathrani has planned to sell $2 billion of office buildings,
strip malls and lower-quality regional malls, and use a portion
of the proceeds to pay down debt.  The company made $300 million of property sales since
coming out of bankruptcy in November, and had an additional $387
million under contract for sale, Mathrani said on an April 27
conference call. General Growth planned $350 million in
additional sales for the rest of the year, he said.  The mall owner is considering spinning off 35 properties
into a real estate investment trust, Reuters reported June 3,
citing people familiar with the plan.  “We’re going to evaluate all our options,” Mathrani said
yesterday when asked about the possibility of a spinoff.  General Growth filed for Chapter 11 protection in April
2009 after weighing itself down with $27 billion in debt that it
was unable to refinance because of the credit crisis and
collapse of the commercial mortgage-backed  securities market . It
completed its bankruptcy reorganization on Nov. 9.  The company obtained $743 million in new mortgages as part
of a refinancing of debt and used $139 million of excess
proceeds to pay down loans on four properties, it said June 6.  General Growth also sold its one-third ownership in two
retail centers in the Phoenix area to  Macerich Co. (MAC)  and acquired
six properties from the  Santa Monica , California-based company
as part of the deal, according to a separate June 6 statement.
General Growth received $75 million in cash in the transaction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  