-- 
Germany’s E. Coli Outbreak Wanes, Minister Says; Officials Defend Response

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-06-08T18:41:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/germany-s-e-coli-outbreak-wanes-minister-says-officials-defend-response.html
Germany ’s top health official said
the deadly E. coli outbreak appeared to be waning as local
authorities defended their handling of the crisis.  At least 2,743 people have been stricken by E. coli since
May 2, up from 2,429 yesterday, the European Centre for Disease
Prevention and Control said today. The bacteria have caused 25
deaths, an increase of 2 from yesterday, the Stockholm-based
agency said.  The outbreak’s cause may never be found, Health Minister
Daniel Bahr said. While the number of illnesses reported by the
ECDC is increasing, many of them may be old sicknesses that are
only now being confirmed in laboratories, according to the
Robert Koch Institute, Germany’s disease-control agency. Data
from routine surveillance in emergency rooms suggests a decrease
in the number of newly ill people, the ECDC said.  “It’s not the time yet to sound the all-clear, but after
the analysis of figures and data at the Robert Koch Institute
there’s reason for justified optimism that the worst is behind
us,” Bahr said at a news conference in Berlin today.  German officials have struggled to pin down the source of
the infections for weeks, and have come under fire for delays as
well as twice pointing to a cause for the outbreak too hastily.
People shouldn’t eat lettuce, tomatoes, cucumbers and salad
ingredients such as vegetable sprouts, the Koch institute
repeated.  ‘More Confusion’  The country’s decentralized federal system may have
compounded a lack of leadership and prevented a speedy response
to the crisis, according to Baerbel Hoehn of the  Green Party .  “To get to the root of all this, the German agriculture
minister must say ‘I’ll take charge, I’ll coordinate
everything,” Hoehn said today on N24 television. “Instead, too
many people with new ideas are constantly coming to the fore,
which only serves to create more confusion.”  Germany may review its response after the outbreak to
determine what could be improved, though there’s no need to
change the structure of the system, Stefan Gruettner, social
minister of the state of Hesse and chairman of a meeting of
health ministers from the country’s 16 states, said in an
interview today.  “We don’t need centralism,” Gruettner said. “Everything
went well.”  Cucumbers, Sprouts  Germany initially blamed Spanish cucumbers, and on June 5
officials said sprouts from an organic farm played a role in the
outbreak. Tests from the farm in Lower Saxony state have showed
no evidence of the bacteria.  The day-to-day toll of deaths and new cases of infection
often seemed to conflict and add to the confusion as individual
states issued their own estimates, which were often higher than
those published by the Koch institute. The government’s disease
control agency only confirmed deaths and infections after
testing was completed.  There are eight E. coli clusters linked to the sprout farm,
Agriculture Minister  Ilse Aigner  said at the Berlin news
conference. Lower Saxony still sees a connection between the
outbreak and the farm in the town of Bienenbuettel even though
tests have come up negative, Agriculture Minister Gert Lindemann
told N24 in an interview today.  “We have, as yet, no bacterial results, and I don’t know
if we’ll ever have these,” the Lower Saxony minister is cited
as saying. “But the epidemiological chain between the sites of
the outbreak and the Bienenbuettel site yesterday became
stronger rather than weaker.”  Test Results  Tests on 471 samples from Lower Saxony have come back
negative, with another 382 still being tested, the state said in
an e-mailed statement today. Nine samples taken from the farm
have tested negative for the bacteria, and eight tests are still
being conducted, the state said.  Infections among some employees of the Bienenbuettel
facility support a link, Lindemann told the German news channel
today.  The strain of E. coli involved in the outbreak produces a
toxin that attacks the kidneys and blood vessels. Most cases
have occurred in adult women, and among people from northern
Germany or who have recently traveled there, the ECDC said.  EU nations reported 722 people have developed a potentially
fatal kidney complication known as hemolytic uremic syndrome
after being infected with E. coli, the agency said today. That’s
an increase from 674 cases yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  