-- 
Germany to Boost Coal-Fired Generation, Standard Chartered Says

-- B y   A l i s t a i r   H o l l o w a y
-- 
2011-06-08T13:46:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/germany-to-boost-coal-fired-generation-standard-chartered-says.html
Germany ,  Europe ’s biggest power user,
will boost coal-fired generation in the year’s second half as it
replaces electricity lost by shutting nuclear reactors, Standard
Chartered Plc said.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in March ordered the halting of
Germany’s seven oldest reactors following a meltdown that month
at Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant caused by an earthquake and
tsunami. That’s out of 17 reactors that accounted for 23 percent
of national power generation last year, according to the  BDEW 
utility-industry group in Berlin.  “In the second half of 2011, it seems that an increase in
coal burn will be the only choice for Germany in order to offset
the loss of nuclear power,” Judy Zhu, an analyst at  Standard
Chartered  in Shanghai, said in a report today. “It is unlikely
that Germany will substantially increase power imports from its
neighbors, as we understand the interconnectors are not able to
handle much additional power.”  The German Cabinet approved plans this week to close all
nuclear-power plants nationwide by 2022. The country was
Europe’s biggest coal consumer after Russia last year, according
to data from BP Plc today. Germany burned 76.5 million metric
tons of oil equivalent, or 16 percent of all coal burned in
Europe and Eurasia, the data show.  Germany’s plan to abandon nuclear energy poses a risk to
peak electricity supply in Europe, according to  Pierre Gadonneix , chairman of the World Energy Council. He’s also a
former chief executive officer of Electricite de  France  SA,
operator of the country’s 58 nuclear reactors and the biggest
European power generator.  “What is happening in Germany is not neutral for the
electricity balance in Europe,” Gadonneix said in an interview
on France’s BFM radio station on June 6. “There’s always a
risk. We have peak capacity in Europe that doesn’t have much
redundancy, now we reduce it, so we increase the risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alistair Holloway in London at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  