-- 
German Industrial Output Unexpectedly Fell in April on Construction Slide

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-06-08T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/german-industrial-output-unexpectedly-fell-in-april-on-construction-slide.html
German industrial production
unexpectedly declined for the first time in four months in
April, led by a drop in construction output.  Production fell 0.6 percent from March, when it rose a
revised 1.2 percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today.
Economists had forecast a gain of 0.2 percent, the median of 36
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed. In the year,
production rose 9.6 percent when adjusted for working days.  The German economy,  Europe ’s largest, may lose some
momentum after expanding at the fastest pace in almost a year in
the first quarter, with surging energy costs sapping companies’
spending power and European governments toughening austerity
measures. German manufacturing growth and investor confidence
weakened last month and exports dropped more than economists
forecast in April.  “While the boom may have peaked, the economy is still
powering ahead,” said Tobias Blattner, an economist at Daiwa
Capital Markets in London. “The domestic economy will remain
fairly strong, with exports the main growth driver.”  Construction output fell 5.7 percent in April from March,
when it advanced 5.5 percent, today’s report showed.
Manufacturing declined 0.6 percent, led by a 1.5 percent drop in
investment-goods production. The ministry revised up the gain in
overall March industrial output from 0.7 percent.  The production trend continues to “point upward despite a
slight cooling at the fringes,” the ministry said in the
statement. It forecast a “slightly calmer pace of expansion”
after “a very strong production pace in recent months.”  First-Quarter Growth  Construction, company investment and export growth powered
 Germany ’s 1.5 percent economic expansion in the first quarter.
Audi,  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s luxury brand, said last month it will add
shifts to ease delivery waiting time on increasing global
demand.  Economic growth may slow to 2.6 percent this year from a
record 3.6 percent in 2010, the European Commission said on May
13. The economy of the 17-member euro region may grow 1.6
percent, the Brussels-based commission said.  A 37 percent increase in crude  oil prices  over the past
year is putting pressure on companies to pass on higher costs to
consumers just as governments from Ireland to Spain toughen
spending cuts to fight the region’s debt crisis.  German growth will slow, said  Ken Wattret , chief euro area
economist at BNP Paribas in  London . Still, this is “a
moderation from exceptionally strong levels, rather than the
beginnings of a double dip,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  