-- 
German Exports Declined in April After Record Increase in March

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-06-08T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/german-exports-declined-in-april-after-record-increase-in-march.html
German exports dropped more than
economists forecast in April after surging to the highest
monthly value on record in March.  Exports, adjusted for work days and seasonal changes, fell
5.5 percent in April from a month earlier, when they jumped a
revised 7.2 percent, the  Federal Statistics Office  in Wiesbaden
said today. Economists had forecast a 3 percent decline,
according to the median of 11 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. Imports dropped 2.5 percent from March.  The German economy,  Europe ’s largest, may struggle to
maintain its momentum after expanding at the fastest pace in
almost a year in the first quarter. While unemployment fell in
May for a 23rd month and business confidence held steady,
investor sentiment waned and manufacturing growth weakened.  “The German economy continues to be on an upward trend but
the speed of expansion should slow markedly in the remainder of
the year,” said Heinrich Bayer, an economist at Deutsche
Postbank AG in Frankfurt. “While we don’t need to worry about
the German manufacturing sector given the strong volume of
orders, there is no reason to be euphoric either.”  German companies are boosting investment and hiring to meet
booming export demand from emerging  Asia , even as surging energy
prices sap household spending power and euro-area countries
including Greece toughen austerity measures. Foreign demand for
investment goods helped factory orders to rebound in April from
a slump in the previous month.  While first-quarter growth of 1.5 percent was probably
“overstated,” the economy is in “good condition,” Bundesbank
President Jens Weidmann said on May 23. The economy may expand
2.6 percent this year after record growth of 3.6 percent in
2010, the European Commission said on May 13.  From a year earlier, exports rose 13.4 percent, today’s
report showed. The  trade balance  narrowed to 10.9 billion euros
($16 billion) from 18.8 billion euros in March. The surplus in
the current account, a measure of all trade including services,
was 8.8 billion euros in April, down from 19.6 billion euros in
March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  