-- 
Bunds Gain on German Export, Industry Slump, ‘Bearish’ Bernanke Comments

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-06-08T16:14:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/german-bonds-advance-as-stocks-drop-exports-decline-more-than-forecast.html
German government bonds advanced amid
concern the pace of global economic growth is faltering after
exports slumped and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said the U.S. recovery is “frustratingly slow.”  The gains pushed the 10-year bund yield down from almost
the highest in more than two weeks as stocks fell and a report
showed German industrial production unexpectedly shrank in
April. Greek debt declined after German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said bondholders should contribute a
“substantial” share of a second aid package to  Greece ,
proposing a bond exchange that credit-rating companies may term
a default.  “It’s risk-off on the downbeat message from Bernanke and
the news on Greece which says that effectively a deal is far
from done after all the optimism we had last week,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at Monument Securities Ltd.
in  London . “Bunds are supported.”  The 10-year bund yield fell four basis points to 3.05
percent as of 5:10 p.m. in London. It climbed yesterday to 3.10
percent, the highest since May 20. The 3.25 percent security due
July 2021 rose 0.34, or 3.4 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,458) face
amount, to 101.66. Yields on German two-year notes were also
four basis points lower, at 1.66 percent.  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of shares fell 0.7 percent, while the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index dropped 1.1 percent.  German Data  German exports slid 5.5 percent in April from a month
earlier, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
Industrial production fell 0.6 percent from March, when it rose
a revised 1.2 percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said
today. Economists had forecast a gain of 0.2 percent, the median
of 36 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  The  European Central Bank  is forecast to leave its
benchmark rate at 1.25 percent at tomorrow’s meeting, according
to all 52 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The Frankfurt-based
central bank, led by  Jean-Claude Trichet , may increase borrowing
costs by 25 basis points in July, a separate survey showed.  Policy makers “are likely to upgrade their forecasts for
growth and inflation and may signal a rate hike in July, so how
far can German bunds rally when they know they have that
immediate event risk?” said Ostwald. “That’s why the very
front end of the curve isn’t getting much of a boost.”  Bernanke Comments  Data showed euro-area gross domestic product rose 0.8
percent in the first quarter from the fourth, when it gained 0.3
percent, in line with a May 13 estimate.  The  U.S. economy  is “still producing at levels well below
its potential; consequently, accommodative monetary policies are
still needed,” Bernanke said yesterday in a speech in Atlanta.
At the same time, the Fed “will take whatever actions are
necessary to keep inflation well controlled,” he said.  Greek 10-year government bonds fell, with the yield jumping
25 basis points to 16.14 percent. Two-year note yields surged
121 basis points to 23.92 percent.  Schaeuble told Trichet and euro finance ministers in a June
6 letter that maturities on Greek bonds should be extended seven
years to give the nation time to overhaul its economy. That
position clashes with the stance of European Commission
officials and the ECB, which oppose anything beyond a voluntary
rollover of debt.  The yield difference, or spread, between German 10-year
bunds and similar maturity Greek debt widened 29 basis points to
1,309 basis points, or 13.09 percentage points.  ‘Important Risks’  The Portuguese 10-year yield spread widened to a record 708
basis points, the most since Bloomberg began collecting the data
in 1997, as the  International Monetary Fund  said its 26 billion-
euro loan to  Portugal  “entails important risks.”  The measures attached to the loan “may fail to alleviate
sovereign-debt concerns, with an adverse impact on government
financing prospects,” IMF staff wrote in a May 17 report that
was posted on the fund’s  website  yesterday. “In particular,
refinancing risks from the closure or contraction of the
Treasury bills market represent a near-term refinancing risk for
the government.”  Other threats cited by the IMF staff include the needed
support from Portugal’s population and from the political class,
lower-than-expected growth and deepening problems in other
European countries.  Portugal’s 10-year bond yield rose 18 basis points to 10.12
percent, after climbing to a record high of 10.14 percent. Irish
securities of a similar maturity decline, with the yield10 basis
points higher at 10.87 percent.  German  government bonds  have handed investors a loss of 0.4
percent this year, while U.S. Treasuries have returned more than
3 percent, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Greek debt
lost 11 percent in the period, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  