-- 
German Stocks Drop to Seven-Week Low; Kabel Deutschland Falls

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-06-08T16:04:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/german-stocks-drop-heidelberger-kabel-deutschland-fall-as-eon-rwe-rise.html
German stocks retreated to a seven-
week low as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  gave no
indications he’s planning a third round of stimulus measures to
support the  U.S. economy .  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8)  fell the most since its
initial public offering after reporting a full-year loss.
 Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG (HDD)  slid 5 percent as Handelsblatt
said the company is unlikely to reach its annual sales target.
EON AG, Germany’s biggest utility, gained for a second day.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  dropped 0.6 percent to 7,060.23 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt. The gauge has fallen 3.2
percent this month amid growing concern the global economy is
weakening after U.S. jobs and manufacturing data missed
forecasts. The measure has still rallied 93 percent since March
2009 as the Fed used quantitative easing, or QE, measures to
support growth. The broader HDAX Index lost 0.7 percent today.  “The uninspiring tone of Bernanke’s economy assessment
yesterday, in which Federal Reserve chairman offered no hints on
QE3, reflected negatively on the markets,” said Anita Paluch, a
sales trader at ETX Capital in London.  Consumer spending  is being held back by an  unemployment
rate  that rose to 9.1 percent last month, a drop in home values
and tight credit, Bernanke said in a speech in Atlanta. He said
growth is likely to pick up as fuel prices moderate and
disruptions of parts supplies ease as factories in Japan recover
from an earthquake and tsunami.  Industrial Production   German stocks extended losses as a report showed the
country’s industrial production unexpectedly declined for the
first time in four months in April, led by a drop in
construction output. Production fell 0.6 percent from March,
when it rose a revised 1.2 percent, the Economy Ministry in
Berlin said. Economists had forecast a gain of 0.2 percent, the
median of 36 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Kabel Deutschland  slumped 5 percent to 42.23 euros, the
largest drop since the company’s IPO in March last year.
Germany’s biggest cable operator said its full-year net loss
widened as television customers taking up Internet and phone
services didn’t make up for costs related to refinancing debt.  The net loss for the 12 months ended March 31 was 43.5
million euros ($66.5 million), compared with a loss of 40.1
million euros a year earlier, the company said. Earnings were
weighed down by 48.8 million euros in costs related to
refinancing debt. Analysts had predicted a 43.4 million-euro
loss, the average of 11 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Technology Companies  Infineon Technologies AG,  Europe ’s second-biggest chipmaker
and SAP AG, the largest maker of business management software,
lost 2.5 percent to 7.69 euros and 1.1 percent to 41.73 euros,
respectively. Technology shares posted the worst performance
among 19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, losing 2
percent.  Heidelberger Druckmaschinen sank 5 percent to 2.65 euros,
the lowest price since July 2009. The printing-press maker is
working “step by step” toward annual sales of 3 billion euros,
though is unlikely to reach that target this fiscal year,
Handelsblatt reported, citing an interview with Chairman
Bernhard Schreier.  EON gained 1 percent to 19.19 euros as Morgan Stanley said
in a note today that it now sees good value in German utilities
after recent underperformance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  