-- 
GIC Puts Three Top Executives in New Roles to Reflect Emerging Market Push

-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-06-08T02:20:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/gic-puts-three-top-executives-in-new-roles-to-reflect-emerging-market-push.html
Government of  Singapore  Investment
Corp., manager of more than $100 billion of the city-state’s
reserves, placed three of its top executives in new roles to
reflect its push into emerging markets.  Seek Ngee Huat, president of its real estate unit, will
chair the Latin America business group, while Teh Kok Peng, head
of special investments, will lead the China business group, GIC
said in an e-mailed statement today. Quah Wee Ghee, the asset
management president, will become the India group chairman. The
three will step down as GIC board members next month.  “The growing recognition is developed economies have a lot
of structural problems, so fundamentally, emerging economies are
much stronger and there are very favorable trends unfolding as
well,” said Lee King Fuei, a Singapore-based  fund manager  at
Schroders Plc, which oversaw $331 billion worldwide as of March
31. “Over the next decade, emerging markets are likely to
outperform.”  GIC, set up in 1981, is seeking new growth areas as it said
last month it expects the investment outlook in the next 30
years to become more challenging. The fund, the biggest investor
in companies including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and UBS AG, is also trying
to boost returns to tackle future crises and meet the country’s
long-term spending needs.  Emerging Markets Push  “The leadership changes will strengthen GIC’s capacity to
pursue investment opportunities for the future given the new
financial landscape and GIC’s increased push into the emerging
markets,” Executive Director Tony Tan said in the statement.
The regional groups were set up to “coordinate research,
relationship-building, development of expertise, and strategic
investment activities across multiple asset classes,” he said.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has outperformed shares of
developed nations in nine of the past 10 years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Shares of emerging countries are
valued at 12.5 times reported earnings, less than a multiple of
14.3 for the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of developed economies.  Lyxor Asset Management , which sold almost all of its
emerging-market equities at the end of last year, said in May it
turned bullish on the stocks as valuations became more
“attractive.”  Mark Mobius , who oversees more than $50 billion
as executive chairman of Templeton Asset Management’s emerging
markets group, said last month he’s looking at “very rapid
growth” in emerging markets, expected to expand at more than
three times the pace of developed economies.  New Roles  Lim Chow Kiat, who led GIC’s Europe group, will replace
Quah as the asset management president, while Lim’s role will be
taken over by Jeffrey Jaensubhakij, head of North American
equities, GIC said.  Goh Kok Huat, former managing director of  equity capital
markets  at Tishman Speyer in  New York , will replace Seek as
president of GIC Real Estate, while Tay Lim Hock will take Teh’s
job as president of special investments, it said. The
appointments take effect July 1.  The fund said last month it had average annual returns
similar to a 10.2 percent gain in equities since its 1981
inception as its investments, which are long term and include
assets such as real estate, had “less risk” than stocks. GIC
is  ranked  the world’s eighth-largest state investment company by
Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute.  Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong was named GIC’s
chairman on May 31, succeeding his father  Lee Kuan Yew . The
elder Lee, who also resigned from the cabinet last month to make
way for younger leaders, took the role of senior adviser to the
sovereign wealth fund this month.  Prime Minister Lee’s ruling  People’s Action Party  won the
May general election with the smallest margin of popular votes
since independence. The party that has ruled Singapore for more
than five decades won 81 out of 87 parliamentary seats and 60.1
percent of the popular vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  