-- 
Globalive Wins Appeal Allowing Carrier to Operate in Canada

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-06-08T22:16:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/globalive-wins-appeal-allowing-carrier-to-operate-in-canada-1-.html
Globalive Communications Corp. won a
court appeal that secures the wireless carrier’s right to
continue operating in  Canada  to compete with larger operators
including  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)   Judge J. Edgar Sexton of Canada’s Federal Court of Appeal
rejected a February court ruling that overturned a Cabinet
decision to grant Globalive a wireless-phone license.  The Cabinet “was saying that Canadians are entitled to a
more competitive wireless telecommunications market” and that
it was proper to base its decision on policy considerations,
Sexton wrote in his ruling today.  Globalive was the first of four new carriers that began
operating in Canada after the federal government sold additional
wireless spectrum in 2008 to encourage new players in the
market.  Globalive, backed by Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris ’
Orascom Telecom Holding SAE, began selling phones in December
2009 under the Wind Mobile brand after the government reversed a
decision by the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications
Commission that the company violated foreign-ownership limits on
telecommunications firms.  Telus Corp. (T) , Canada’s third-largest wireless carrier, and
new provider Public Mobile both argued the Cabinet order was
flawed. A federal judge on Feb. 4 quashed the cabinet order that
had overruled the regulator’s decision, saying Globalive didn’t
meet Canada’s rules, which limit direct and indirect foreign
ownership to 47 percent.  More Competition  Globalive is “thrilled” with the decision, Chairman
Anthony Lacavera said in an e-mail today.  “We have always maintained our compliance and with the
restoration of this order-in-council we look forward to getting
back to competition in the marketplace -- where it belongs,” he
said.  “We have always believed that Globalive is a Canadian
company which meets the Canadian ownership and control
requirements under the Telecommunications Act,” said Industry
Minister Christian Paradis, in a statement today. “Globalive
should be able to continue to offer service in the wireless
telecommunications market.  Shawn Hall, a Telus spokesman, said the Vancouver-based
company would not have any comment today. Public Mobile said in
an e-mail that it plans to appeal the ruling to Canada’s  Supreme
Court .  “If you’re going to change the rules, change them equally
for everyone, not just Wind,” said Public Mobile CEO Alek Krstajic.  Telus rose 39 cents to C$52.49 in 4 p.m. trading on the
Toronto Stock Exchange. Rogers dropped 12 cents to C$36.94.  BCE
Inc. (BCE) , the country’s biggest phone company, rose 10 cents to
C$38.38.  The case is A-78-11 and A-79-11, between the Attorney
General of Canada and Globalive Wireless Management Corp. and
Public Mobile Inc. and Telus Communications Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 