-- 
GM to Use Option to Buy 1% of China Venture, Akerson Says

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-06-08T02:33:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/gm-to-use-option-to-buy-1-of-china-venture-akerson-says-1-.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the biggest
overseas automaker in China, said it intends to exercise an
option to buy back a 1 percent stake in its main car venture
in the country to make it an equally held unit with its
partner.  “We have an option to buy that 1 percent,” Chief
Executive Officer Dan Akerson told shareholders yesterday at
the automaker’s annual meeting in  Detroit . “It’s our
intention to exercise that.”  GM sold a 1 percent stake in Shanghai General Motors Co.
to partner SAIC Motor Corp. in 2010, reducing its holding to
49 percent. GM received a  call option  at the time to
repurchase the 1 percent stake.  SAIC, China’s largest domestic carmaker, paid $84.5
million for the shares, which allowed it to include Shanghai
GM’s revenue in its accounts as a majority shareholder under
new local accounting standards. The deal was approved by
Chinese government in February 2010.  “Any possible repurchase by GM needs to meet the
condition that SAIC can include Shanghai GM’s revenue into
our accounts,” Zhu Xiangjun, a spokeswoman for SAIC, said by
telephone. “That’s why we bought the shares in the first
place.”  GM can repurchase the stake if SAIC is able to include
Shanghai GM revenue in its accounts without relying on the
additional 1 percent stake, the Shanghai-based automaker said
in a statement to the city’s stock exchange on Feb. 23, 2010.  ‘Attractive Terms’  “GM may find it difficult to buy back its stake because
it’s not in the interest of SAIC or the Chinese government to
sell,” said Zhang Xin, an analyst with Guotai Junan
Securities Co. in Beijing. “The Chinese government has been
encouraging automakers to be independent and they’re unlikely
to approve GM’s repurchase unless GM can offer some
attractive terms in exchange.”  In  China , GM also holds a 44 percent stake in SAIC-GM-
Wuling Automotive Co., which sells the country’s bestselling
vehicle, the Wuling Sunshine minivan.  Even as the automaker sells more cars in China than in
the U.S., it earns more profit in the U.S., where it
delivered 2.22 million vehicles in 2010. GM’s North American
operations had profit before interest and taxes of $2.13
billion in the second quarter, while the company’s
international operations, including China, earned $646
million, it said Nov. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  