-- 
Google Gets It, HBOS Didn’t: Success Begins With Failure: Books

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 
2011-06-08T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/google-gets-it-hbos-s-crosby-didn-t-success-begins-with-failure-books.html
What, exactly, happened on the day
whistleblower Paul Moore lost his job as head of risk at HBOS
Plc? A clear explanation might help avert another financial
meltdown, judging from Tim Harford’s brainy new book, “Adapt.”  The year was 2004, long before the U.K. lender sank under
bad loans, posted a loss of 7.5 billion pounds ($12.3 billion)
for 2008 and merged into Lloyds TSB Group Plc.  As Moore describes it, HBOS Chief Executive James Crosby
swatted away his concerns about the bank’s “ over-eager sales
culture ” and sacked him. Crosby says Moore’s allegations were
 fully investigated  and had no merit. Harford offers a subtler
explanation: Crosby was in denial, he says.  “It seems to be the hardest thing in the world to admit
that we have made a mistake and to try to put it right,” he
writes in this pleasing fugue on the theme that “success always
starts with failure.”  Note the adverb “always.” We all struggle to accept our
failures, cut our losses and move on, be it at the poker table,
on the battlefield or in that lime-green Edsel bought on a whim.
Yet admitting our mistakes holds a key to solving the planet’s
most intractable problems, says Harford, author of “The
Undercover Economist” and “The Logic of Life.”  Wherever you look, success emerges from trial and error.
You know the drill: Try variations on what you already have,
filter out the flops and copy the hits. It’s called evolution.  “Often summarized as survival of the fittest, evolution is
a process driven by the failure of the less fit,” Harford says.  Edison’s Googleplex  The computer industry offers a fine example.  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  defeated  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  in PCs. Then Microsoft lost the search-engine war to  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  Google itself embraces evolution: It lets its engineers
spend 20 percent of their time on pet projects, spawning both
hits and misses; think AdSense and  SearchMash . Like Thomas Edison, the Googleplex gang understands that breakthroughs come
from dogged experimentation.  “If I find 10,000 ways something won’t work, I haven’t
failed,” the Wizard of  Menlo Park  is quoted as saying. “I am
not discouraged, because every wrong attempt discarded is just
one more step forward.”  Breezing along in declarative sentences, Harford examines
variation and selection in endeavors as different as waging war
and curbing  climate change . He draws, graciously, on ideas
developed by historians, psychologists and economists including
 Paul Ormerod , author of “Why Most Things Fail.”  Iraq  and Spitfires  Harford has a knack for making complicated ideas sound
simple. He nudges the reader along with bite-sized biographical
sketches and case studies. He introduces us to rebellious U.S.
colonels who changed the course of the war in Iraq; the engineer
who designed the Spitfire fighter; and a group of young
researchers who are upending ideas about foreign aid in  Africa .  In most human endeavors, failure is necessary, useful and
must be tolerated, Harford argues. One big exception, he says,
is in banking.  His chapter on financial meltdowns opens, curiously, with
the grim evening in 1988 when the Piper Alpha oil and gas rig
exploded in a deadly inferno on the  North Sea . To a banker, this
might sound irrelevant. Yet the connection is obvious to people
who study industrial disasters such as the Bhopal toxic gas
leak, Harford says.  Accidents are inevitable in certain kinds of systems, as
Yale Professor Emeritus Charles Perrow explained in his 1984
classic, “Normal Accidents.” That’s because they’re both
“tightly coupled” -- like a domino-toppling display -- and
complex. Once trouble starts at a nuclear power plant or in the
banking system, unintended consequences pile up so fast that
it’s nigh impossible to halt the chain reaction.  Decoupling Links  How can we limit the damage when a megabank implodes? The
answer, Harford says, is to decouple some links, to keep
failures isolated. Domino topplers have learned to use safety
gates to contain accidents. For bankers, Harford says, such
gates might include higher  capital requirements , bankruptcy
contingency plans, and the judicious use of contingent
convertible bonds, which turn into equity when a banks crashes.  Another possibility: Consider giving whistleblowers
financial incentives to speak out, he says. That sounds
reasonable until you realize that the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission introduced tipster rewards two decades ago
and rarely handed them out. This was, after all, the agency that
missed  Bernard Madoff ’s fraud even when  Harry Markopolos  served
it up on a platter.  SEC staffers were in denial, just like James Crosby in
Harford’s description of HBOS. Seduced by Madoff’s polished
reputation, they couldn’t perceive him as a crook. They must
have suffered cognitive dissonance, the tension caused by
holding two conflicting ideas simultaneously.  Reading this book won’t rewire anyone’s brain. Yet it might
help bankers and regulators get over the hump of denial and,
just possibly, avoid another $2 trillion meltdown.  “Adapt: Why Success Always Starts With Failure” is from
Farrar, Straus and Giroux in the U.S. and from  Little, Brown  in
the U.K. (309 pages, $27, 20 pounds). To buy this book in  North
America , click  here .  (James Pressley is a book critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 