-- 
Greek Jobless Rate Breached 16 Percent for First Time on Record in March

-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 
2011-06-08T10:22:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/greek-jobless-rate-breached-16-percent-for-first-time-on-record-in-march.html
Greece ’s unemployment rate exceeded
16 percent in March, extending a record high as the nation’s
economy remained mired in the third year of a recession.  The jobless rate rose to 16.2 percent from 15.9 percent in
February, the  Hellenic Statistical Authority  said today in an e-
mailed statement in Athens. That was the highest since Greece
began releasing monthly unemployment data in 2004. Economists
expected a rate of 16 percent, according to the median of three
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Greece’s jobless rate has risen every month since July,
after Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s government cut wages
and pensions and increased taxes to narrow a  budget deficit  that
reached 15.4 percent of gross domestic product in 2009. The
measures were conditions of a 110 billion-euro ($161 billion)
bailout from the European Union and the  International Monetary
Fund  and have deepened a recession now in its third year.  Support for Papandreou’s measures has dropped in Greece as
unions call strikes and an unaffiliated protest movement gathers
every evening outside parliament in central Athens. Opposition
has also strengthened within his socialist Pasok party as he
tries to push through a 78 billion-euro package of new austerity
cuts and asset sales to secure additional aid for the country.  Last year’s rescue failed to stem an investor exodus from
Greek bonds as a 4.4 percent economic contraction made it harder
for the government to collect taxes and meet deficit-reduction
goals. Luxembourg’s Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who also
chairs a group of euro-region finance ministers, said on June 3
he expects the group to approve additional financing for Greece.  Total Jobless  The total number of jobless was 811,340 in March, compared
with 787,229 in February and 578,723 a year earlier. The
 unemployment rate  for those under age 24 was 42.5 percent. The
overall jobless rate was worst in the south Aegean, which
includes the vacation islands of Mykonos and Santorini, where it
was 30.4 percent.  Industrial production in April fell 11 percent from a year
earlier, compared with an 8 percent decline the previous month,
a separate statistics agency report showed today. The biggest
decreases were in electricity production, which fell 12.2
percent, and manufacturing, which declined 11.3 percent.  The agency will release final first-quarter economic growth
figures tomorrow. Eurostat, the European Union’s statistics
agency, published preliminary data on May 13 showing that Greek
gross domestic product expanded 0.8 percent in the first
quarter. The European Commission forecasts Greece’s economy will
shrink 3.5 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in  Athens  at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 