-- 
Greenhill Stock Slides as Hiring Spree Fails to Boost Profit

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-06-08T20:35:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/greenhill-stock-slides-as-hiring-spree-fails-to-boost-profit.html
Greenhill & Co., the financial
advisory firm started by Robert F. Greenhill, has lost 41
percent of its stock value this year as rising compensation
costs consume revenue, even amid a global rebound in takeovers.  Greenhill’s personnel expenses surged to 75 percent of
revenue in this year’s first three months, contributing to the
first quarterly loss in 2 1/2 years, after the firm boosted the
number of managing directors 63 percent since 2007. Greenhill
ranks 17th among advisers on deals announced this year, sliding
from 13th in 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
stock closed at $49.23 yesterday, its lowest since July 2008.  “They have yet to see the full payoff from those people,”
said  Howard Chen , a New York-based analyst at  Credit Suisse
Group AG. (CSGN)  “They’re just not hitting many of the deals that are
there.”  Chief Executive Officer Scott Bok, 52, added bankers during
the global economic slump to win advisory mandates when
corporate takeovers rebound. With deals accelerating this year -
- the total value is up 22 percent so far -- the company aims to
reduce the share of revenue spent on employees, Bok said in an
interview last week. The stock has previously overcome short-
term setbacks, he added. It has almost tripled since the company
went public in 2004.  “It’s been a difficult three years in the M&A business,”
Bok said in the interview at Greenhill’s  New York  headquarters.
“There’s no question the market is turning around, and we feel
quite good about the business.”  Competitors’ Performance  Bok is scheduled to speak to investors tomorrow at a
 conference  in New York hosted by Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP,
where he will discuss the M&A environment and the firm’s
performance.  Greenhill shares fell $1.43, or 2.9 percent, to $47.80 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The firm
is the worst performer in the 14-company Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Investment Banking & Brokerages Index Sub-
Industry Index this year.  Greenhill’s slide in trading this year compares with an 8.8
percent decline at  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , the largest independent advisory
firm, and a 0.8 percent gain at  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  Both of
those competitors have other businesses including  money
management .  The value of global deals announced so far this year is
$1.04 trillion, compared with $850 billion in the same period a
year earlier.  “M&A activity is likely to continue to rebound in the way
that all past cycles have,” Bok said. “Greenhill is
progressing upward appropriately as part of that.”  ‘Cyclical Upswing’  Roger Altman , the former U.S. deputy Treasury secretary and
founder and chairman of New York-based Evercore, said last month
that dealmaking is at the beginning of a recovery whose peak
will exceed the record $4 trillion of takeovers at the height of
the merger boom in 2007. Companies are pursuing deals “in the
midst of a classic, cyclical upswing,” Altman, 64, said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York.  Greenhill’s $1.58 million first-quarter loss was the firm’s
first since the third quarter of 2008. Full-year net income in
2010 was $34.5 million, the lowest since it went public.  Greenhill’s stock declines may be exacerbated by the firm’s
lack of a full-time chief financial officer or investor
relations contact, said  Richard Bove , an analyst with Rochdale
Securities LLC in Lutz,  Florida . CFO Richard Lieb is also a
managing director focusing on the real-estate industry and
financial restructurings. The company doesn’t hold conference
calls after announcing quarterly results.  ‘Out With Clients’  “When they report a disappointing number, the impact on
the stock is far greater than if they were doing a conference
call answering investors’ questions,” Bove said. “What they’re
doing magnifies the negative impact when bad things happen.”  Greenhill doesn’t hold conference calls because the press
releases containing results have all the relevant information,
Bok said.  “I’m not convinced our shareholders want to talk to an
investor-relations person,” Bok said. “I think they like
talking to the CFO or myself because we’re in the business.
We’re actually out with clients all the time.”  Robert Greenhill, 74, founded the firm in 1996 after a  Wall
Street  career spanning more than three decades. He joined  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  in 1962 and rose to become its president. In 1993, he
left to be CEO at Smith Barney Inc.  Bok, who had been a managing director at New York-based
Morgan Stanley, joined Greenhill’s firm in 1997. Prior to that,
he was an M&A and securities lawyer for Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen
& Katz. He was co-CEO of Greenhill from October 2007 to April
2010, when he became the sole chief.  No Cash Bonuses  Greenhill’s compensation expenses remained steady from 2007
to 2009 at a yearly rate of 46 percent of revenue, and increased
to 57 percent in 2010. Because of the jump, Bok and senior
managers didn’t take cash bonuses for the year, the company said
in January. His 2010 compensation totaled $8.27 million, which
included a $600,000 salary and $7.32 million in stock awards,
according to a regulatory filing.  Greenhill’s Park Avenue offices occupy five floors. The
firm has 70 managing directors stationed around the globe.
Locations include London, Sydney, Tokyo and  Frankfurt , according
to its  website .  Talent was “very expensive” in 2006 and 2007 before the
credit crisis, Bok said at an investor conference in February.
Greenhill’s hiring surged in 2008 through 2010 as talent on Wall
Street became cheaper and people were more willing to switch
firms, he said.  “They’re positioned right to benefit from what’s going on
in the industry because they’ve hired a lot of attractive people
from the bigger firms,” Bove said.  ‘Handful’ of Departures  In 2008, Greenhill hired Gil Ha as a managing director
focusing on telecommunications companies. He was previously at
Evercore, Rohatyn Associates and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , where he co-
headed the German firm’s telecommunications investment-banking
group for the Americas. He had advised on  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s 2007
merger with BellSouth Corp. This year, he was part of the
Greenhill team that advised AT&T on a proposed $39 billion
takeover of Deutsche Telekom AG’s T-Mobile USA Inc., this year’s
biggest deal.  Greenhill hired Robert K. Collins from Morgan Stanley in
2009 to focus on infrastructure companies. Collins, who is based
in  Chicago , was head of Morgan Stanley’s infrastructure
investment-banking business in the Americas.  Only a “handful” of managing directors have left in the
past few years, Jeffrey Taufield, a spokesman for Greenhill,
said in an e-mail. The firm has had an average of less than one
departure per year since its founding, he said.  Greenhill’s Deals  Last week, Zurich-based Credit Suisse, the world’s third-
biggest merger adviser, hired Greenhill’s Alejandro Przygoda as
global co-head of financial institutions investment banking. He
had joined Greenhill in 2009.  “We’re back in a more difficult environment for recruiting
now,” Bok said at the investor conference in February. “We can
digest all the people we brought in and focus on our cost and
profitability for a bit.”  Greenhill has advised on nine announced deals so far this
year with a total value of $41.6 billion, Bloomberg data show.
The AT&T deal accounts for 94 percent of that volume.  Lazard, which ranks ninth this year, and Evercore, which
ranks 12th, have advised on 68 and 21 deals, respectively,
during the same period, with a combined volume of $185 billion.  Evercore has more than doubled its total headcount since
2007 to 610 employees at the end of 2010, according to a
regulatory filing. The number of managing directors in
Evercore’s investment-banking unit, which includes equities and
private funds business along with financial advisory, increased
68 percent during that time, to 47.  Revenue Outpacing Rivals  Lazard’s headcount decreased 5.1 percent to 2,332 in 2010
from 2007, according to a filing. The number of financial
advisory managing directors declined 6.5 percent to 129 in that
span.  Greenhill’s advisory-fee revenue has increased faster than
its peers since last year, Bok said. The firm’s first-quarter
financial advisory revenue was $48.5 million, a 33 percent
increase from the year-earlier period. Lazard, based in
Hamilton,  Bermuda , had a 15 percent decrease in advisory fee
revenue in the same period.  Greenhill’s revenue probably will rise to $76.3 million in
the second quarter, according to estimates from five analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Total revenue will be an estimated $319
million for 2011, and $401 million next year, which would beat
Greenhill’s 2007 results, according to six analysts.  Greenhill’s hiring eventually will pay off, Bok said.  “We don’t know at what rate, but if history repeats
itself, M&A activity is going to turn back up,” Bok said. “We
expect to benefit from that along with everyone else.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Laura Marcinek in New
York at   lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 