-- 
Gross Says U.S. Policy Prompting Foreigners to Question Dollar

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-06-08T22:04:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/gross-says-u-s-policy-prompting-foreigners-to-question-dollar.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  said foreigners are questioning the dollar’s role as
the world’s reserve currency because of U.S. policies that keep
borrowing rates low to reduce the nation’s debt burden.  Gross, manager of world’s biggest mutual fund, reiterated
that investors should avoid  U.S. Treasuries  because they’re not
being compensated for the risk of inflation. Investors should
buy debt of nations that maintain better fiscal and monetary
policies such as Canada, Germany and  Mexico , he said.  “If you’re a foreign holder of dollars,” you should be
concerned, Gross said, speaking today in  Chicago  at the 2011
Morningstar Investment Conference. “Ultimately, they too begin
to question, and are already starting to, the soundness of a
Treasury bill, bond or note.”  Gross eliminated government-related debt from his flagship
$243 billion Total Return Fund in February, from 12 percent of
assets in January, as the U.S. projected record budget deficits.
Treasuries have rallied 3.2 percent since February as reports on
employment and manufacturing showed that the U.S. economic
recovery is slowing. The Dollar Index, which measures the U.S.
currency against those of six major trading partners, has
dropped 3.9 percent in the same time.  Governments such as the U.S. are intentionally keeping
 interest rates  lower than they should be to help reduce record
debt levels, setting up investors up for a “pocket picking,”
Gross said.  Financial Repression  Under a strategy that economist  Carmen Reinhart  has
described as “financial repression,” governments require banks,
pension funds and other financial institutions to hold
government debt, ostensibly for reasons related to the safety
and soundness of the organizations, Gross said.  Such a situation is occurring now and is intolerable
because almost four years since the start of the financial
crisis, the U.S. has done little to reduce the size of the
excess liabilities accumulated, Pimco wrote in what it called a
secular outlook last month. The amount of marketable debt
outstanding has more than doubled to $9.7 trillion since the
start of the financial crisis.  The Total Return Fund had minus 4 percent of its assets in
government and related debt in April, versus negative 3 percent
in March, according to the  Newport Beach , California-based
company’s  website . Cash and equivalents, the largest component,
rose to 37 percent of holdings from 31 percent.  The difference between yields on 10-year Treasuries and the
year-over-year  consumer price index , known as real yields, was
negative 0.103 percent today, close to the lowest since November
2008. Yields on 10-year notes fell to a low for the year of 2.93
percent.  The Total Return Fund gained 7.66 percent in the past year,
beating 76 percent of its competitors, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It returned 0.56 percent over the last
month, beating 55 percent of its competitors. The company is a
unit of insurer  Allianz SE (ALV)  in Munich.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net 
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  