-- 
Facebook Under EU Privacy Probe Over Facial Recognition Prompt for Photos

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-06-08T19:14:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/group-targets-facebook-facial-recognition.html
A privacy-rights group said it plans
to file a complaint with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission over
 Facebook  Inc.’s facial-recognition feature for photo tagging.  The Electronic Privacy Information Center, based in
Washington, is working on the complaint and will present it to
the agency today or tomorrow,  Marc Rotenberg , the group’s
executive director, said in an interview. Other privacy and
consumer groups plan to sign onto the complaint, Rotenberg said,
declining to identify them.  Facebook, owner of the world’s most popular social-
networking service, said on its  blog  yesterday that “Tag
Suggestions” are available in most countries after being phased
in over several months. The feature uses facial-recognition
software so when a user posts a new photo to a Facebook page it
suggests names of people to tag based on pictures in which they
have already been identified.  The feature also is drawing scrutiny in the European Union,
where a group of privacy watchdogs from the EU’s 27 nations said
earlier today it will study photo-tagging for possible rules
violations. Authorities in the U.K. and Ireland said they are
also looking into the situation.  A spokesman for Facebook, Andrew Noyes, declined to comment
on the center’s plans for a complaint to the FTC. Since
announcing the Tag Suggestions feature in December 2010, and
gradually rolling it out, “millions of people have used it to
add hundreds of millions of tags,” Noyes said in an e-mail.  “This data, and the fact that we’ve had almost no user
complaints, suggests people are enjoying the feature and are
finding it useful,” Noyes said. Facebook made turning off the
feature “easy,” he said.  FTC spokesman Mitch Katz said he couldn’t immediately
confirm whether the agency has received the complaint.  Active by Default  The facial-recognition feature is active by default on
existing users’ accounts, and  Palo Alto ,  California-based
Facebook  explains on its blog how people can disable the
function.  U.S. Representative Ed Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat,
said requiring Facebook users to disable the facial recognition
feature “is no substitute for” allowing users to choose
whether they want to use it.  “If this new feature is as useful as Facebook claims, it
should be able to stand on its own, without an automatic sign-up
that changes users’ privacy settings without their permission,”
Markey, who is co-chairman of the Bi-Partisan Congressional
Privacy Caucus, said in an e-mail.  Facebook Under Pressure  Facebook is under pressure to protect individuals’
information as it seeks revenue from the 500 million users who
play games, post photos and communicate using the site. In
April, Facebook announced additional safety tools, including a
redesigned “Family Safety Center” that has videos and articles
for teenagers, parents and teachers.  The Electronic Privacy Information Center logged its first
privacy  complaint  against Facebook in December 2009, asking  the
FTC to investigate whether consumers were harmed when Facebook
changed its default privacy settings. The group, which updated
the complaints twice last year, called on the agency to require
Facebook to give users “meaningful control over personal
information.”  Nine consumer advocacy groups, including the American
Library Association,  Consumer Federation of America  and The
Privacy Rights Clearinghouse, signed on to the first complaint.  ‘A Close Look’  The FTC hasn’t acted on that letter, which asks the agency
to compel Facebook to allow users to choose whether to disclose
personal information and to allow them to choose to fully opt-
out of revealing information to third-party developers.  FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz, in a June 2010 interview, said
“we’re taking a very close look at Facebook,” while declining
to say whether the agency had opened a formal investigation.  In March, the FTC settled privacy complaints with Internet
companies Twitter Inc. and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  with 20-year agreements.
The Google settlement ended a complaint filed by the Electronic
Privacy Information Center regarding the company’s social-
networking service, Buzz. Rotenburg said at the time the Google
settlement was “significant” and “far-reaching.”  In  Europe , the U.K.’s Information Commissioner’s Office is
also “speaking to Facebook” about the privacy aspects of the
photo tagging technology, said Greg Jones, a spokesman for the
group.  “We would expect Facebook to be upfront about how people’s
personal information is being used,” Jones said. “The privacy
issues that this new software might raise are obvious.”  The Irish data-protection authority is also looking into
the issue, said spokeswoman Ciara O’Sullivan.  The group guides the work of national data-protection
agencies, which have the power to punish companies that break
privacy rules.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in  Washington  at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  