-- 
Miami Heat’s LeBron James Loses Offensive Touch as Dallas Evens NBA Finals

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-06-08T07:15:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/miami-heat-s-lebron-james-loses-offensive-touch-as-dallas-evens-nba-finals.html
LeBron James’s deference to All-Star
teammates  Dwyane Wade  and  Chris Bosh  cost him his offensive
rhythm and the  Miami Heat  a two-game advantage in the National
Basketball Association Finals.  James scored eight points last night as the Heat lost 86-83
to the  Dallas Mavericks . The result left the teams tied at two
games apiece in the best-of-seven series.  It was James’s worst outing since he also had eight points
in a Jan. 5, 2007, win at the  Milwaukee Bucks . James now has a
streak of scoring fewer points in six successive games: 35 on
May 24 against  Chicago , then 28 points on May 26 against the
Bulls, and then 24, 20, 17 and eight in the four games against
 Dallas .  “I’ve got to do a better job of being more assertive
offensively,” James said at a news conference. “I have to keep
myself in rhythm.”  James went 3-of-11 at the American Airlines Center in
Dallas, his contributions coming on a first-quarter tip-in, a
third-quarter breakaway dunk and a 15-foot jump shot. He also
made two of four free-throw attempts.  It’s the first time in 90 playoff games that James, 26,
failed to reach double digits in scoring. In 717 career games,
including the playoffs, he’s tallied less than eight points four
times: a three-point effort the night before his 20th birthday
in 2004, and three occasions during the first five weeks of his
eight-year NBA career.  “The fact that it happened in a loss is the anger part,”
he said. “That’s all that matters to me. If I had had eight
points and we won the game, I could be satisfied.”  Wade and Bosh, the All-Stars James chose to join from the
 Cleveland Cavaliers  in an effort to win his first NBA title, led
the Heat with 32 points and 24 points respectively.  ‘That’s Not Him’  “That’s not him. In the Cleveland days he was attacking,”
the Mavericks’ DeShawn Stevenson, who joined Shawn Marion and
Jason Kidd in defending James, told reporters. “Wade has it
going and he’s deferring to that.”  While two-time NBA Most Valuable Player James grabbed nine
rebounds and handed out seven assists, his failure to score
wasn’t lost on his teammates.  “He struggled, point blank, period,” Bosh said. “We’ve
all done that at times in our careers and it happens.”  While James, who is averaging 24.2 points per game during
the playoffs to Wade’s 25, has limited time to recover before
Game 5 tomorrow, he said he’ll do what he can to rediscover his
offensive touch.  “You want to try to stay off your feet as much as
possible,” James said. “If I feel like I need to come to the
gym and get some extra shots up, I will.”  The series returns to Miami for Game 6 on June 12, with a
decisive game, if necessary, two days later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in Dallas at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 