-- 
Libyan Rebels on Front Lines Ask When NATO Forces Will Help Them Advance

-- B y   C h r i s   S t e p h e n
-- 
2011-06-08T22:33:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/libya-rebels-ask-when-nato-will-help-them.html
Skirmishing with Libyan government
forces is taking a toll on rebel fighters at Dafniya, on the
eastern front line near Misrata, as NATO warplanes pummel the
capital, Tripoli.  Forces loyal to leader  Muammar Qaddafi , who have pulled
back from Misrata, fire mortars and GRAD rockets in a daily
exchange with the rebels at Dafniya. Accompanying the
bombardment is an infantry attack.  Qaddafi’s loyalists lack both the numbers and motivation to
sustain a ground offensive, so they usually retreat, with the
rebel forces chasing after them. By nightfall, the rebels are
ordered to give up the ground they have captured.  NATO has instructed rebel units to remain behind a so-
called Red Line, the current front line, to allow NATO aircraft
freedom to attack beyond it without fear of hitting friendly
troops, said local brigade commander Feraz Swehli, great-
grandson of Ramadan al-Swehli, a famous Misrata resistance
fighter who liberated the city from Italian occupation.  The result is little change on the ground as rebel
casualties mount.  Dr. Mohammed Teeka, 27, one of the emergency medics with
rebel forces at Dafniya, sees wounded rebels at a field hospital
a few miles from the front.  Blood on Floor  On one recent morning, he tried and failed to revive a
bearded fighter whose blood leaked from a bandaged head wound
onto the concrete floor of the former farm warehouse. Doctors
clustered around, irritated that an old heart monitor machine
had stopped working, while one doctor kneeled astride the
patient and tried to revive him with heart massage.  Afterwards, Teeka, wearing green scrubs and sipping hot
sweet tea outside the hospital, asked where are the British
Apache and French Tiger helicopters promised to help turn the
tide. “Why no NATO?” he said.  He is not the only rebel asking: On the front line itself,
inside a mosque who’s walls reverberate to chains of mortar
shells landing outside, rebel soldiers and medics are equally
baffled. Since the NATO helicopters have yet to make an
appearance on the Misrata front, the rebels ask why they are
being told by their leadership to respect the Red Line.  “The enemy infantry we can handle,” said Swehli. “But we
need NATO to take care of the GRADs and tanks.”  Libyan forces yesterday shelled the outskirts of Misrata,
the largest rebel-held city in western  Libya . Ten rebel fighters
were killed and 26 injured, according to information posted at
Misrata’s central Hikma hospital.  The reasons why NATO is staying out of the battles raging
on Misrata’s front line stem from the UN Security Council
resolution passed in March, which authorized NATO to use “all
necessary means” to protect civilian lives.  UN Mandate  Under its mandate, NATO can bomb to safeguard civilians,
while bombing to protect armed rebel forces is a less clear
matter.  Swehli said that NATO sometimes brings in air support on
his front lines, but it is patchy. “All requests have to go
through our commanders in Benghazi, so it takes time,” he said
“We have no direct contact with NATO.”  The rebels note they face a dilemma. If they fall back from
the front line, thereby putting Misrata in range of Gaddafi’s
artillery, NATO may bomb to protect civilians there. But if they
hold the front line outside artillery range, the alliance seems
disinclined to help them advance.  Contact Group Meeting  NATO this week has intensified its bombing of military
targets in Tripoli, largely destroying Qaddafi’s Bab al-Aziziya
compound, in a stated effort to pressure the regime. NATO’s
chief, Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen, yesterday in
Brussels cited “clear progress” in ending Qaddafi’s 42-year
rule and said the alliance will continue its air campaign for as
long as necessary.  Foreign ministers from the 22-nation Libya Contact Group
meet today in  Abu Dhabi  to discuss the conflict and the outlook
for Libya after Qaddafi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Stephen in Dafniya, Libya, at 
 chrisstephen2005@yahoo.co.uk ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  