-- 
Iceland’s Ex-Premier Denies Negligence

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-06-08T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/iceland-s-ex-premier-denies-negligence-in-financial-collapse.html
Iceland’s former Prime Minister Geir Haarde denied all charges against him at the opening of a trial
that will decide whether he was criminally negligent during the
island’s financial crisis.  “I declare myself innocent of all the counts,” Haarde
said yesterday at the Reykjavik-based Landsdomur court. “During
my long career as a Cabinet member I always endeavored to take
decisions based on honesty and responsibility bearing in mind
the best interests of the country.”  The six charges include Haarde’s failure to protect Iceland
from “grave” financial danger and argue the premier should
have forced the country’s lenders to reduce their balance
sheets, which swelled to ten times the size of the economy before
they failed. The banking boom had helped turn the Atlantic island 
into the world’s fifth-richest economy per capita just one year 
before the financial collapse forced it to turn to the 
 International Monetary Fund  and sent the krona plunging 
as much as 80 percent against the euro offshore.  Haarde, 60, who stepped down more than two years ago amid
street protests, exacerbated Iceland’s plight by failing to
curtail the banks’ debt-fueled expansion, a parliamentary
committee said in September. While several former executives at
the failed banks are being investigated, with some receiving
jail terms, Haarde is the only politician to face trial.  Never Imagined  “Never could I have imagined that I would be standing
here,” Haarde said in court. “That, of course, is difficult
for me personally but not as difficult as many would think
because I know how this case got here and what directed those
who are responsible for me being in front of this Court.”  The  special prosecutor  appointed by parliament presented
Haarde with his official indictment on May 10, more than seven
months after the legislature agreed he should be charged for his
role in the financial meltdown. Haarde last month said the delay
of the trial may be a violation of “the constitutional right to
a speedy trial.”  Prime Minister Johanna Sigurdardottir said yesterday the
process has taken “too long.”  Iceland’s erstwhile biggest lenders Landsbanki Islands hf,
Kaupthing Bank hf and Glitnir Bank hf failed within weeks of
each other in October 2008 after they were unable to secure
enough short-term funds and toppled after amassing debts.  Icesave Failure  Prosecutor  Sigridur Fridjonsdottir  also wants Haarde held
accountable for failing to ensure that Landsbanki created
subsidiaries for its Internet Icesave accounts in the U.K. and
 Netherlands , which would have forced the U.K. and Dutch
governments to cover depositor claims, according to the
indictment. Iceland now faces a yearlong international court
battle to settle the $5.9 billion in claims stemming from the
 Icesave  dispute.  Haarde’s trial marks the first time Iceland’s Landsdomur, a
special court created in 1905 to try ministers for violating
laws on ministerial responsibility, will convene.  Both side may need to draw on many “obsolete laws,”
explaining the delays, said Brynjar Nielsson, a Supreme Court
lawyer and the chairman of  Iceland’s Bar Association , in an
interview last month. Even so, “one could easily argue that the
delayed process violates the former prime minister’s legal
rights, both inscribed in law, the constitution and the European
Convention on Human Rights.”  ‘Punishable Acts’  After the collapse, the state opted to separate the banks’
domestic and foreign assets, piling losses onto bondholders and
protecting domestic depositors. The model won praise from Nobel
Economics Prize laureate  Paul Krugman , who in a Nov. 24 column
published in the New York Times, said Iceland is an example of
“bankrupting yourself to recovery.” Krugman also contrasted
Iceland’s treatment of its financial turmoil with Ireland’s,
arguing Iceland is now better off.  “What the prosecutor has to do is prove that I violated
the law and committed punishable acts,” Haarde said in an
interview last month. “This will be a hard thing to prove,
particularly in the light of what is now known about the banking
crisis in Iceland and in other countries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar Valdimarsson in London at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  