-- 
ID-Only Shopping Encourages Wal-Mart in India Where Retail Is Off Limits

-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 
2011-06-08T23:04:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/id-only-shopping-encourages-wal-mart-to-open-stores-in-india.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , blocked from
opening retail outlets in India, is reaching consumers in the
world’s second second-most populous nation by supplying their
stores and restaurants.  The world’s biggest retailer and rivals including
 Carrefour SA (CA)  and Metro AG can’t sell more than one brand under
one roof in India. They’re allowed to set up wholesale outlets
and Wal-Mart’s joint venture with billionaire Sunil Mittal’s
Bharti Enterprises Pvt. plans to triple its locations this year.  Setting up such businesses will help overseas companies
prepare for when India relaxes its rules on retailing, which
may happen by April, according to Junior Trade Minister
Jyotiraditya Scindia. Retail sales in Asia’s third-largest
economy may grow to $785 billion in 2015 from $396 billion in
2011 if the restrictions are eased next year, according to a
 report  by Business Monitor International.  “We’re filling a gap in the country which has existed for
several years now,” Raj Jain, chief executive officer of Bharti
Walmart, said in an interview. Wholesaling in  India  could be
“gigantic,” and the venture will stay in the business even if
retailing rules are relaxed, he said.  Shoppers at a Wal-Mart store in Zirakpur in India’s
northern Punjab state said they’re drawn by low prices and
convenience. They can only enter the store by showing ID cards
that require documents proving they own a store or a restaurant.  Aisles for Forklifts  Pankaj Goel, 36, said he makes a 10-kilometer (six-mile)
trip to the store daily to buy supplies for his restaurant, Food
Max.  “I find all the supplies I need here, so I can do all my
shopping in one place,” he said as he piled up cucumbers,
mushrooms and lemons into two carts being pushed by store staff.
“It’s cheaper than buying from the market.”  The 55,000-square-foot Wal-Mart in Zirakpur resembles a
warehouse, with high ceilings and aisles wide enough to
accommodate forklifts.  Labels list wholesale and retail prices, as well as the
difference, to show customers how much they can make when they
sell the products on to consumers.  The Zirakpur outlet adds 15 to 20 more every day, Yogesh
Kumar, its general manager, said. Bharti Walmart already has as
many as 180,000 customers in India, according to Jain.  Larger Than Anticipated  Bharti Walmart opened its first store in India in 2009. It
has six wholesale outlets and plans to increase that to 18 by
the end of the year, spending as much as $75 million on the
expansion. As many as 12 more outlets may be added in 2012.  “We’re accelerating our program because we think we can
get larger scale here than we had originally anticipated,” Jain
said. “Even if retail opens, I cannot see us not doing our
wholesale business because the opportunity is huge.”  For Wal-Mart and Carrefour, the world’s two biggest
retailers, running wholesale operations in the South Asian
nation of 1.2 billion people helps them develop supply chains
and gain a foothold in the country. India was the third-most
attractive retail market among the thirty largest emerging
markets, U.S. consulting group AT Kearney said in a June  report .  Small, neighborhood shops that sell a limited range of
items control about 70 to 80 percent of India’s retail industry,
according to analysts, including  KPMG ’s Anand Ramanathan.  Reliance Retail  Wholesale stores boost product distribution in remote areas,
said Ramanathan, who’s based in Bangalore. About 5 million
stores are “outside the direct coverage of large consumer-goods
players” such as Hindustan Unilever Ltd., India’s biggest maker
of soap and detergent, he said.  Paris-based Carrefour set up its first India wholesale
store in December. Reliance Retail, a subsidiary of India’s
 Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , will open wholesale stores “soon,”
billionaire Chairman  Mukesh Ambani  said June 3.  Future Group, the holding company for  Pantaloon Retail
India Ltd. (PF) , India’s largest publicly traded retailer, operates
169 Food Bazaar Stores in India.  The business of supplying smaller stores has “very big
potential,” especially outside India’s urban centers, Saloni
Nangia, a senior vice president at Technopak Advisors Pvt., said
in an interview.  Companies such as Bharti Walmart and Carrefour have also
made a “good start” at helping farmers gain access to better
technology and earn more money, said Scindia, the junior trade
minister. Mohan Shukla, a spokesman for Carrefour in India,
declined to comment on the company’s sourcing operations.  Food Inflation  As much as 30 percent of the products sold in Bharti
Walmart’s stores are regional brands and products, Jain said.  Bharti Walmart buys fresh produce directly from about 1,200
farmers in Punjab and helps them improve their yield through
better farming practices, Jain said.  A  discussion paper  prepared by the Department of Industrial
Policy and Promotion said foreign direct investment in multi-
brand retail would help develop infrastructure and allow farmers
to earn more.  Overseas companies are allowed 51 percent holdings in
single-brand shops.  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) , which sells
clothes and food under its brand, has a venture with Reliance
Industries.  A government panel on May 27 also recommended opening
multi-brand retail to foreign investment, because it might help
moderate food-price inflation, which was 16 percent last year.  ‘Growth Engine’  Wal-Mart, Carrefour and  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  have said they can reduce
consumer food prices in India by removing intermediaries.  Wal-Mart, the world’s biggest listed company by revenue,
made 26 percent of its $421.8 billion in sales last year outside
the U.S.  Its international sales expanded 84 percent to $109 billion
over the past five years, more than triple the rate of growth in
its home market, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Wal-
Mart’s overseas locations reached 4,612 in the fiscal year ended
January, exceeding those in the U.S. for the first time,
according to the data.  Sales at U.S. Wal-Mart stores open more than a year dropped
1.1 percent in the fiscal first quarter, the eighth decline in a
row. The international division “continues to be the growth
engine for the company” with 11.5 percent sales growth, Wal-
Mart said.  ‘Outdated’ Rules  Wal-Mart has “intensive plans” to grow in India, where
its annual revenue is less than $1 billion, compared with $7.5
billion for  China , Scott Price, chief executive officer for  Asia ,
said March 30.  India’s retailing rules, meant to protect small shop owners,
are outdated, Technopak Advisors’ Nangia said.  “Consumption in India is growing at such a fast pace,
nobody’s actually getting impacted in terms of loss of
business,” Nangia said. “Smaller, unorganized retailers might
need to tweak their business model slightly to adapt to the
change, but there’s an opportunity for all forms and sizes of
business to be set up.”  Wal-Mart, with about 9,000 stores in 15 countries, isn’t a
threat to the Indian way of shopping, Jain said.  “The mom-and-pop stores will stay forever, even in urban
India,” he said. “And who’s going to feed them? They will buy
from the business-to-business channels, so that will continue as
an opportunity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  