-- 
IKOS’s Ambrosiadou to Appear at Hedge Fund Gala Amid Husband’s Spy Claims

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B a k e r
-- 
2011-06-08T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/ikos-s-ambrosiadou-to-appear-at-hedge-fund-gala-amid-husband-s-spy-claims.html
IKOS Asset Management Ltd.’s Elena Ambrosiadou has a knack for attracting attention.  Once labeled the U.K.’s highest-paid woman, Ambrosiadou has
spent three weeks fending off spying allegations and claims by
her estranged husband that he still owns a stake in the $2.5
billion hedge fund. She’ll be hard to miss tonight at one of
 London ’s biggest annual charity events: she has paid for two
tables at  the Absolute Return for Kids  dinner, according to her
spokesman. ARK says tables cost a minimum of 100,000 pounds
($164,070) each. She’s also agreed to auction off a week aboard
her 289-foot Maltese Falcon, which she bought in 2009 for about
$120 million. The yacht, complete with gym and masseuse,
typically rents for as much as 378,000 euros ($551,000) a week,
according to chartering  firm  Nigel Burgess Ltd.  The yearlong legal dispute with her husband, a former
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  currency strategist and mathematician
who helped develop the system that is at the heart of IKOS’s
success, has brought the firm the kind of attention that clients
don’t relish, say hedge-fund consultants.  “Trading punches in public is going to turn off a lot of
investors,” said John Godden, chief executive officer of
London-based hedge fund consulting firm IGS Group.  That hasn’t happened, according to Phil Hall, a spokesman
for Ambrosiadou. No clients of Cyprus-based IKOS have submitted
redemption requests in the past three weeks and the firm has
actually had net inflows, he said in a statement.  Coward Departs  “We have close relationships with our investors on an on-
going business,” Hall said yesterday. Ambrosiadou, 52, and
Martin Coward, her husband, declined to comment.  Ambrosiadou, IKOS’s chief executive officer, and Coward,
who left IKOS in December 2009, and at least two other former
employees have been suing each other. The disputes, laid out in
press releases and court documents in the U.K., include
allegations of surveillance specialists bugging homes and
statements from IKOS that Coward is using the media to damage
the business.  Clients have had little to complain about for much of the
past two years. IKOS runs so-called managed futures funds, which
rely on computer programs to spot trends in the values of
commodities, currencies,  interest rates  and bonds.  The firm’s IKOS FX Fund produced investment returns of 26
percent in 2010 and 18 percent in 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Its IKOS Futures Fund gained 25 percent
in 2010 and 2.4 percent in 2009.  Strong Returns  Similar funds rose 9.3 percent on average in 2010 and lost
4.3 percent in 2009, according to an index from Paris-based
Newedge Group.  Robert Savage, who sits on the IKOS board, said the firm’s
strong returns since the departure of Coward, the company’s
former chief investment officer, prove that Ambrosiadou is
capable of running the funds successfully without him. “It’s
foolhardy to think any organization managing money can be on
auto pilot,” he said. “You still need human beings watching
and intervening in the process. That’s what the CEO of a
quantitative hedge fund should be doing.”  May was less kind to IKOS. A rapid selloff in oil and metal
markets came too quickly for most managed futures funds to catch
the shift in prices.  The IKOS FX Fund declined 9.5 percent last month, its worst
performance since at least 2008, according to Bloomberg data.
The IKOS Futures Fund fell 8 percent. Managed futures funds on
average declined 4.6 percent in May, according to Newedge. Year
to date the IKOS FX Fund is up 6.3 percent, according to
Bloomberg data. The IKOS Futures Fund rose 3.4 percent.  Spying Claims  May is also when media organizations reported allegations
from a former  fund manager  about spying. The employee said
Ambrosiadou hired a woman trained in surveillance and counter-
terrorism to determine whether he was planning to leave IKOS to
start a new hedge with Coward, according to a July 2010 lawsuit
that’s since been resolved.  IKOS responded in a May 24 press statement, saying it
“lawfully” investigated Coward and “a number of former
employees” because of concern over property theft. Michael Willcocks, the director of external relations at IKOS, sent a
letter to the firm’s investors the following day that said all
steps taken by the company were done to protect “its  trade
secrets .” Willcocks added that Coward has no stake in IKOS.  “Investors may start to ask themselves how much time is
being taken away from the core activities of the firm,” said
Max Ferri, who performs due diligence of  hedge funds  for Laven
Partners, a London-based consultant.  Investors ‘Very Pleased’  Savage, the IKOS director, said he heard no concerns last
week when he held routine meetings in London and  New York  with
more than 150 existing and potential investors of the firm.  “They are happy with IKOS management and very pleased with
the returns,” he said. “The comments I have heard about the
bad press suggest this is more of an annoyance for investors as
they feel they have to justify what seems obvious to them: IKOS
is a trusted and worthy asset manager.”  The lawsuits and media coverage caused Ambrosiadou,
“extreme, personal pain” that prompted her to briefly announce
she was pulling out of the ARK dinner, according to a May 23 e-
mail she sent to the organization. She also rescinded her offer
to auction off use of the Maltese Falcon.  “There are those who find satisfaction in misrepresenting
me,” she wrote. “They use the press, knowing that it causes
damage to my family and my firm, hoping to achieve benefits
which they cannot achieve through the right and just court
process.”  Ambrosiadou has since changed her mind. She will attend the
event and diners will bid on her boat, Hall said.  Prince William , who will attend with his new wife, Catherine Middleton,
will be the keynote speaker.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Baker in London at 
 stebaker@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  