-- 
IMF Asks Japan for Bolder Fiscal Strategy

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-06-08T08:17:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/imf-calls-on-japan-for-more-ambitious-fiscal-strategy.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
called on the  Bank of Japan  to bolster its asset purchases to
prevent an exacerbation of deflation and support an economy that
fell into a recession after the March 11 earthquake.  “Accelerating and expanding the BOJ’s asset purchase
program could guard against deflation risks and support the
recovery,” the Washington-based fund said in a report released
in Tokyo today, referring to the central bank’s main policy tool
in a nation where borrowing costs are near zero.  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa has signaled the bank’s
readiness to expand stimulus to spur a recovery in the world’s
third-largest economy. Since the disaster it has doubled to 10
trillion yen ($125 billion) its asset-purchase program that buys
financial instruments ranging from government debt to real-
estate investment trusts.  The IMF also said the central bank should strengthen its
policy commitment to keeping rates near zero as  oil prices  cause
core consumer prices to rise. The BOJ has said it will maintain
its accommodative policy until prices register stable increases.
 Core inflation  rose 0.6 percent in April, the first increase in
more than a year.  “To strengthen communication in a period of volatile
prices, the BOJ could also convey its policy stance by
explaining more the outlook for measures of inflation that
exclude both food and energy.”  Fed Recommendation  The IMF made similar recommendations to the  Federal Reserve 
in its  review  of the  U.S. economy  in July, saying the Fed could
expand asset purchases or strengthen its commitment to
maintaining its current policy for an extended period should
more stimulus become necessary. It reiterated that  Japan  will
probably keep policy accommodative longer than its counterparts.  “Going forward, however, as Japan is likely to maintain an
accommodative monetary stance for longer than other advanced
economies the yen could weaken and affect other economies via
trade and financial channels,” the fund said.  The state of Japan’s economy remains severe since the
earthquake,  John Lipsky , the IMF’s acting chief, said at a press
conference in Tokyo today. The fund forecasts the economy will
shrink 0.7 percent this year and expand 2.9 percent in 2012,
according to today’s statement.  Lipsky was in Tokyo to present the fund’s review of the
economy to government officials including Finance Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  and Economy Minister  Kaoru Yosano .  Tackling Debt  IMF joined credit-rating companies in calling for more
action from Japan in tackling its growing debt burden, which the
fund projects will swell to 234 percent of GDP this year.
Moody’s Investors Service warned last month that it may
downgrade the nation’s sovereign credit rating because of
faltering growth prospects and a “weak policy response” by
Prime Minister Naoto Kan’s government.  “Japan needs a more ambitious medium-term strategy for
bringing down public debt to maintain confidence in public
finances,” the IMF said.  The fund recommended Japan’s sales tax be raised to 15
percent from the current 5 percent over “several years,” and
that corporate levies should be lowered to 35 percent from the
current rate of about 40 percent, which would help promote
domestic investment, the IMF said.  Japan needs “comprehensive” tax measures, particularly an
increase in the consumption tax, to help control a debt burden
twice the size of gross domestic product, the IMF said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  