-- 
Inflation-Bond Laggards Lure Record Bids at Weekly Auction: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-06-08T21:16:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/inflation-bond-laggards-lure-record-bids-at-weekly-auction-mexico-credit.html
Mexican inflation-linked bonds are at
their cheapest in two years relative to fixed-rate debt,
sparking record demand for the securities at government
auctions.  Debt tied to consumer prices due in three years drew 14.3
billion pesos ($1.2 billion) of bids at yesterday’s  auction ,
almost seven times more than the 2.1 billion pesos offered, the
central bank said.  Demand for the securities is rebounding after the slowest
inflation in almost five years caused the bonds to underperform.
The yield gap between inflation-linked and fixed-rate bonds due
in 2014, a gauge of investor expectations for price increases,
shrank to a two-year low of 3.42 percent on June 1. While
countries from  Brazil  to  Peru  have raised  interest rates  to curb
inflation, Mexico is the only major Latin American nation to
keep them unchanged in the past year.  “It sounds like a good time to take advantage of the
underperformance of inflation-linked debt,” Javier Belaunzaran,
who helps manage about 40 billion pesos at Interacciones Casa de
Bolsa SA, said in a telephone interview. “The paper is cheap.
Traders are jumping ahead and trying to take advantage of the
lack of performance in the past.”  Mexican bonds that protect against price increases returned
1.8 percent this year through June 6, compared with an average 7
percent gain for inflation-linked debt sold by Latin America
countries, according to Barclays Plc indexes.  The yield on Mexico’s bonds tied to the  consumer price
index  fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, since
the end of February to 1.96 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Yields on the country’s fixed-rate bonds due in
2014 fell 60 basis points during the same period to 5.84
percent.  U.S. Slowdown  Annual inflation slowed to 3.3 percent in mid-May from 4.4
percent in 2010 and touched a five-year low of 3.04 percent in
March. Inflation in Brazil climbed to 6.55 percent in May, the
highest since 2005, a government report showed yesterday.  Speculation the slowdown in the  U.S. economy  will erode
demand for Mexican exports is curbing expectations for price
increases in the Latin American country, causing inflation-
linked debt to underperform, said Jorge O. Mariscal, director of
investment research at the Rohatyn Group, which manages $3
billion.  In the U.S., which buys about 80 percent of  Mexico ’s
exports, manufacturing grew in May at the slowest pace in more
than a year and the jobless rate unexpectedly climbed to 9.1
percent. Mexico’s economy grew 4.6 percent in the first quarter,
less than the 5 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
17 analysts.  ‘Becomes Cheaper’  “We’ve seen some concerns on the outlook for U.S. growth
having an impact on the outlook for growth in Mexico,” Mariscal
said in a telephone interview in New York. “Typically what
happens in this environment when people are worried about growth
is that inflation becomes less of a concern. Therefore,
inflation-protection bonds will become more attractively priced.
So it’s a good buying opportunity because it becomes cheaper.”  Alejandro Urbina, who helps manage and advise about $800
million in investments at Silva Capital Management LLC in
 Chicago , said he favors fixed-rate debt because it will keep
outperforming inflation-linked bonds.  “It’s one of those situations where the market was too
focused on the U.S. recovery and they got sucked in by their
optimism,” Urbina said in a telephone interview. “The traders
saw an inflation problem. It never materialized, at least not in
Mexico.”  Extra Yield  An official at the  Finance Ministry  didn’t return calls for
comment.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries widened 3 basis points
to 146 basis points at 5:05 p.m. New York time, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose two basis points to 107, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The peso dropped 0.8 percent to 11.8453 per dollar.  Yields on TIIE interest-rate futures contracts maturing in
December were unchanged at 5 percent, indicating the bank will
raise borrowing costs by then.  Policy makers kept the benchmark lending rate at a record
low 4.5 percent last month amid a “moderation in the pace” of
the economic expansion, according to a policy statement.  ‘Quite High’  Demand for inflation-linked bonds is recovering as
investors seek to tap into a rally in the peso and profit from
rate differentials with the U.S., said  Sara Zervos , who manages
$10 billion in emerging-market debt at Oppenheimer Funds Inc. in
New York. The  Federal Reserve  has held its key rate at zero to
0.25 percent since December 2008.  International investors bought $21 billion of Mexican debt
denominated in pesos in the six months through March, the most
since the central bank began compiling the data in the 1960s.  “Demand for Mexican bonds in any variety is quite high,”
Zervos said in a telephone interview. “Mexico is very
attractive because of the higher interest rates relative to the
U.S. I really don’t think there are inflation fears at work
behind the demand for the Udibonos. It’s more they’re seeking
more exposure to local Mexico.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  