-- 
Ireland to Raise ESM Restructuring at EU Meeting This Month

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-06-08T13:15:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/ireland-to-raise-esm-restructuring-at-eu-meeting-this-month-1-.html
The Irish government will push for a
restructuring of  Europe ’s permanent bailout mechanism when
government leaders meet later this month, Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said.  “It is time for Europe to focus on what it needs to do to
help countries who are making a real committed and genuine
effort to get out of economic difficulties,” Kenny said in
parliament in Dublin today. Europe must “focus on restructuring
the kind of system” that is going to apply when the European
Stability Mechanism is set up in 2013, he said.  Kenny said nations wouldn’t want to enter a mechanism they
couldn’t exit and which would hinder their economic prospects.
He criticized some European counties that he didn’t name for
blocking an interest-rate cut on part of Ireland’s bailout loans
because of their own “national interests.”  Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said yesterday that France
and  Germany  are refusing to allow a cut on the rate on the aid
without a change to Ireland’s 12.5 percent corporate  tax rate .
Kenny said Ireland won’t raise the rate.  Deputy Prime Minister Eamon Gilmore said earlier this month
the preferred creditor status given to loans by the ESM over
private investors was contributing to the high yields on Irish
bonds, as the market is factoring in Ireland’s entry to the
system.  The difference in yield between Irish and German 10-year
bonds was at 771 basis points today compared with an average of
606 points in the week after Ireland agreed to its  bailout in
November. The yield on 10-year Irish bonds was 10.77 percent
today, little changed from yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  