-- 
IRS Chief Urges Congress to Boost Budget to Snare Tax Cheats

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-06-08T17:37:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/irs-chief-urges-congress-to-boost-budget-to-snare-tax-cheats-1-.html
Internal Revenue Service Commissioner
Douglas Shulman said proposed budget cuts to his agency would
hurt tax enforcement and voluntary compliance.  The U.S. House has yet to recommend a specific budget level
for the agency. The House set a funding level for a group of
agencies including the IRS that would suggest a budget below the
$12.1 billion the agency will receive this year. The IRS is
seeking an increase of almost 10 percent in its budget.  “Cuts of this magnitude would be substantial and affect
all of IRS operations,” Shulman said today in  Washington  before
a Senate Appropriations subcommittee. He also said that
“conspicuous drops” in enforcement could undermine tax
compliance.  Shulman said that, without additional information
reporting, the IRS has few levers it can use to attack the
estimated $345 billion annual gross tax gap. That gap is the
difference between taxes owed and taxes paid.  “We’ve, in many ways, tapped the easy money,” he said.  Shulman noted that recent efforts to improve information
reporting, such as a requirement on businesses to report some
purchases that was repealed this year, can run into political
opposition.  He told Senator Jerry Moran, a Kansas Republican, that the
IRS would no longer need $23.3 million it had sought for that
information-reporting effort.  ‘Belt-Tightening’  Senator  Richard Durbin , an Illinois Democrat and chairman
of the appropriations subcommittee that oversees IRS funding,
said lawmakers are looking for $4 trillion in spending cuts or
increased revenue over the next decade, putting pressure on
spending requests.  “There’s been belt-tightening all around, and it’s
affected your agency,” Durbin told Shulman.  Senator  Mark Kirk , an Illinois Republican, suggested that
the IRS consider allowing taxpayers to go to the agency’s
website and fill out their tax forms, instead of buying  Intuit
Inc. (INTU) ’s TurboTax or paying to use preparers such as those at  H&R
Block Inc. (HRB)   “This is an incredible drag on the economy,” Kirk said.  Shulman said the agency has higher information-technology
priorities, such as completing a new version of its outdated
account database.  “We need to build some core infrastructure,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  