-- 
IRS Readies Enforcement Against at Least One Overseas Bank

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-06-08T23:01:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/irs-readies-enforcement-against-at-least-one-overseas-bank.html
The  Internal Revenue Service  is
planning an imminent enforcement action against one or more non-
U.S. banks, a top agency official said.  “The IRS plans to move against one or more banks in the
next month or so,” Steven Miller, deputy commissioner for
services and enforcement, said at a conference in Washington on
June 7.  In recent years, the IRS and the  Justice Department  have
stepped up enforcement to combat offshore tax evasion.  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
Switzerland’s largest bank by assets, was charged in February
2009 with helping U.S. citizens evade taxes. The bank avoided
prosecution by paying $780 million, admitting that it fostered
tax evasion, and agreeing to give data to the IRS on more than
250 accounts. UBS later handed over data on an additional 4,400
accounts to resolve an IRS lawsuit.  In February, four Europe-based bankers at  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CS)  were indicted in federal court in Alexandria,  Virginia ,
accused of conspiring to help U.S. clients evade taxes. The
bankers have not appeared in court. In 2008, the bank had
“thousands” of accounts with $3 billion in assets not declared
to the IRS, according to the indictment. Zurich-based Credit
Suisse spokesman David Walker today declined to comment.  Action Against HSBC  The U.S. filed a civil action in April against London-based
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , the largest European bank by assets, seeking
information about U.S. citizens who may have banked in  India  to
hide accounts from the IRS.  HSBC spokesman Robert Sherman said in an e-mailed statement
today that the company “does not condone  tax evasion  and fully
supports the U.S. efforts to promote appropriate payment of
taxes by U.S. taxpayers. While complying with the law in all the
jurisdictions in which it operates, HSBC cooperates with
requests from U.S. authorities.”  Since 2007, the U.S. has charged at least two dozen UBS
clients with tax crimes. It also has charged four UBS bankers,
three HSBC clients and four other alleged offshore enablers.  From March to October 2009, 15,000 taxpayers came forward
under the IRS’s voluntary disclosure program. After October
2009, about 4,000 more came forward. To avoid prosecution, the
taxpayers had to disclose their offshore accounts, bankers and
advisers, as well as how they moved their money.  The IRS is currently conducting a second voluntary
disclosure program that encourages taxpayers with offshore
accounts to declare them and avoid criminal penalties.  IRS spokesman Dean Patterson declined to comment beyond
Miller’s remarks. Miller’s comments were previously reported by
the Bureau of National Affairs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in New York at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  