-- 
Judge to Vet Madoff Trustee’s $59 Billion UniCredit Suit

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-06-08T19:19:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/judge-to-rule-on-madoff-trustee-s-59-billion-lawsuit-against-unicredit.html
U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff said
he will decide if the trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff’s
firm can use U.S. racketeering law to sue Milan-based  UniCredit
SpA (UCG)  with other banks for $59 billion, in the biggest challenge
so far to Irving Picard.  Picard sued Bank Medici AG, its founder, Sonja Kohn, and
dozens of Austrian and Italian parties including UniCredit for
$19.6 billion in New York in December, using the Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act to treble the amount.
The bankruptcy court suit represents almost two-thirds of the
$90 billion Picard is seeking through 1,000 lawsuits for
investors in the  Ponzi scheme .  UniCredit, accused by Picard of ignoring signs of fraud at
the Madoff firm and participating in an “illegal scheme” with
Kohn, asked Rakoff last month to decide whether the racketeering
law applies outside the U.S. Acceding to the request, Rakoff
said he also will rule on whether Picard “plausibly” alleged
the elements of racketeering, according to a June 6 court
filing.  “For the purpose of resolving” issues of federal non-
bankruptcy law, Rakoff said, he would temporarily take the case
out of U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland ’s court in  New York .
He will give his reasons in a written opinion later, he said.  Right to Sue  Rakoff said he also will resolve whether Picard has
standing to bring the Kohn action against UniCredit, and whether
as the liquidator of Madoff’s firm he has a right to sue on
behalf of the confidence man’s customers.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , target of a $9 billion Picard suit,
along with feeder funds, also took its case to Rakoff. Last
month,  Europe ’s biggest bank asked the judge to dismiss the
trustee’s suit, saying he isn’t allowed by law to bring class-
action style suits on behalf of Madoff’s customers.  Picard defended his right to sue the U.K. bank this week,
saying his suit was on behalf of a customer fund, not customers.  In another challenge to Picard,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the
second-biggest U.S. bank, asked U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  this month to dismiss a $6.4 billion lawsuit by Picard.  According to Picard, Kohn ran a scheme centered on Bank
Medici, parts of which overlapped with Madoff’s own fraudulent
enterprise, delivering $9.1 billion into the Ponzi scheme.  Medici Enterprise  Portraying UniCredit as a “full member of the Medici
enterprise,” the trustee accused the bank of participating in
the illegal scheme “despite its concerns” about the Madoff
firm’s legitimacy. UniCredit acquired a stake in Vienna-based
Bank Medici by buying Bank Austria. Picard is trying to recoup
at least $1.7 billion that he says Bank Austria withdrew from
the Madoff firm before the con man’s 2008 arrest.  Kohn and UniCredit are fighting the suit.  UniCredit’s  Manhattan  branches held more than $17.5 billion
in U.S. assets in June 2010, Picard said in his suit, citing the
Federal Reserve Board.  Asking Rakoff to take its case, the Italian bank said a
recent U.S. Supreme Court ruling “upended” historical tests
for applying U.S. law in other countries. That casts doubt on
whether Picard can use RICO to reach “an alleged enterprise
existing almost wholly outside of the  United States  and
expressly directing its alleged conduct to persons living
abroad,” UniCredit said in a court filing.  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, declined to comment.  The case is Picard v. Kohn, 10-05411,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The District
Court case is Picard v. Kohn, 1:11-cv-1181, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 