-- 
Kabel Deutschland Shares Drop as Full-Year Sales at Low End of Forecast

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-06-08T10:50:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/kabel-deutschland-reports-full-year-net-loss-on-costs-of-redinancing-debt.html
Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) ,
 Germany ’s largest cable operator, fell the most since its March
2010 initial public offering after posting full-year revenue at
the low end of the company’s forecast range.  Sales rose 6.5 percent to 1.6 billion euros ($2.3 billion)
in the 12 months ended March 31, the Unterfoehring-based company
said today in a statement. Kabel Deutschland had forecast
revenue growth of as much as 7 percent. The company plans a
dividend of 1.50 euros a share for the current fiscal year,
trailing the 1.60-euro average estimate of 16 analysts.  “We will continue to pay out a dividend from free  cash
flow  and we see that increasing over time,” Chief Financial
Officer Paul Thomason, who will depart when his contract expires
in March 2012, said at a press conference in Munich today.  Kabel
Deutschland  aims to pay out about 65 percent of free cash flow
in dividends to shareholders in the future, Thomason said.  German cable operators have lagged behind some European
peers in selling phone and Web services to TV customers even as
consumers need more bandwidth to watch videos online and Chief
Executive Officer Adrian von Hammerstein said today that this
bodes well for the company’s revenue potential.  “The stock was being pushed before the results and now
that they weren’t better than expected, uncertainties come into
focus,” said Heike Pauls, a Frankfurt-based analyst at
Commerzbank AG who recommends buying the shares.  Kabel Deutschland, partly owned by Rhode Island-based
Providence Equity Partners Inc., fell as much as 8.1 percent to
40.85 euros and was down 6.4 percent as of 12:43 p.m. in
 Frankfurt  trading. The stock is still almost double its value at
the time of its IPO and is the fifth-best performer on the mid-
cap MDAX Index this year.  Loss Narrows  The fourth-quarter net loss  narrowed  to 153,000 euros from
16.6 million euros a year earlier, helped by a 9.2 million euros
tax gain, Kabel Deutschland said.  The company could “be in the black” as soon as the
current quarter, CFO Thomason said.  This fiscal year, Kabel Deutschland predicts adjusted
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
to be in a range of 790 million euros to 800 million euros,
rising from 729 million euros last year. Sales will increase by
a range of 6.25 percent to 6.75 percent this year, it said.  In Germany,  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) , controlled by U.S.
billionaire  John Malone , owns the second-largest cable operator,
Unitymedia, and is waiting for regulatory approval for a
proposed 3.16 billion-euro acquisition of the third-largest,
Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg.  ‘Consolidation Makes Sense’  “Consolidation makes sense, and I would welcome the
approval of that deal,” von Hammerstein said.  The Kabel Deutschland CEO has previously suggested that
smaller cable operators like Tele Columbus GmbH and Primacom AG
would be interesting targets.  “We currently don’t have the density to make it
economical” to upgrade networks and improve broadband speeds in
eastern Germany, von Hammerstein said today. “This is a message
to Berlin that if they want to improve broadband coverage they
should allow consolidation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Munich via 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  