-- 
Kentucky Manufacturer Big Ass Fans Turns a Commodity into a Brand

-- B y   A n t o n e   G o n s a l v e s
-- 
2011-06-08T15:28:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/kentucky-manufacturer-big-ass-fans-turns-a-commodity-into-a-brand.html
Few manufacturers succeed at wooing
homeowners, companies, and government buyers.  Big Ass Fans  has
managed to keep business flowing from each, selling all manner
of fans, from ceiling behemoths up to 24 feet in diameter to
portable versions on wheels.  While its larger competitors produce a diverse lineup of
products, the Lexington (Ky.) company limits its offering to
fans, spending about 8 percent of its annual revenue on research
and development, according to President and Chief Executive
Officer Carey Smith. That’s more than most, says Justin Molavi,
an industry analyst for market researcher IBISWorld. “That’s
what makes this company unique. They’re just looking at fans and
then innovating on those fans and coming up with new
technology.”  Big Ass Fans’ singular focus is paying off. Besides a 100,000-
square-foot factory, Big Ass Fans has a 46,000-square-foot R&D
lab in the same Lexington location, where engineers work on new
products and improvements on existing fans. The company holds 10
U.S. patents on its technology and a total of 70 patents in
other countries. Smith projects $70 million in revenue this
year, up from $50 million last year. Next year, he expects
nearly $100 million. For five years, the company’s growth rate
has ranged from 25 percent to 30 percent, with the exception of
2009, when revenue fell 10 percent as a result of the Great
Recession. The $43.7 billion market for heating and air-
conditioning equipment is projected to grow 1.5 percent annually
through 2016, according to IBISWorld.  10-Year Warranty  The 210-employee company’s six different models are difficult
for overseas factories to match without investing heavily in
skilled labor and specialized gear, says Smith. Unlike in most
other fans, Big Ass’s gears generate little heat from friction,
making it possible to seal their gearboxes permanently and fill
them with nitrogen, which keeps out damaging moisture. This
makes it possible for the company to offer a 10-year warranty
and charge $1,700 to $10,000 per fan.  The vertical winglets on the tips of the fans’ blades are its
most visible innovation. Borrowed from airplane wing designs,
the turned-up metal reduces air resistance, which makes it
possible to run even the largest fan with a tiny 2-horsepower
engine. In addition to saving energy, the design moves large
amounts of air near the ceiling without disturbing papers on
desks below. In the winter, warm air trapped near the ceiling is
pushed downward, reducing heating bills by as much as 30
percent, according to Richard Aynsley, Big Ass Fans’ director of
research and development. In the summer, the continuous
circulation makes people feel cooler, which means less air-
conditioning.  MASS Design Group in  Boston  used Big Ass Fans’ 24-foot ceiling
fans in the 140-bed Butaro Hospital in the Burera district in
northern  Rwanda . The huge fans move germ-carrying air from the
floor to the ceiling, where ultraviolet bulbs kill microbes.
“Most people use a fan for psychological cooling, the feeling of
the breeze,” says Alan Ricks, founding partner and creative
director of MASS Design in Boston. “But these fans actually
don’t generate a lot of draft, and yet still achieve that large
amount of air mixing.”  Serendipitous Start  Smith got into fans in 1999 with the $600,000 he had left after
pulling the plug on his first company, SprinKool, which sold
sprinklers to cool the roofs of large factories and warehouses
in the summer. Smith had a hunch better fans would be popular
after countless visits to stifling factories and warehouses. His
big break came when he saw a trade magazine ad for a 20-foot
ceiling fan made by a small machine shop in Riverside, Calif.
“It was just serendipitous, really,” he says. For the first few
years, Smith paid the shop to manufacture fans, which he sold
and marketed through his company. In 2002, Smith paid $400,000
for the intellectual-property rights and launched his own
manufacturing operation.  That same year he changed his company’s staid name, HVLS Fan
Co., to its current, sassier incarnation to capture attention.
Besides complaints from local religious groups, nearby Blue
Grass Airport in 2008 refused to sell the company advertising
space, Smith says. Today it’s a customer. “It’s amazing how
little flak we get for it anymore,” Smith says. He says the
company has given away more than 300,000 caps sporting the name
and mascot, Fanny the Donkey. “Companies like Big Ass Fans have
figured out that the best way to be competitive is to do more
product differentiation -- through branding, variety, and
quality -- and put something unique in the market that cannot be
commoditized,” says Georgia Institute of Technology economics
professor Vivek Ghosal.  Big Ass Fans eschews retailers and distributors in the U.S.,
using its own 65-person sales team to handle all sales and
customer service. Outside the U.S., Smith is more open to using
third parties to move product, with about 10 percent of Big Ass
Fans’ revenue coming from overseas, including  Australia  and the
 United Kingdom , he says. Now Smith is contemplating expansion
into the Caribbean and other tropical regions. “When people
think about U.S. manufacturing, they ought to be thinking
quality.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Antone Gonsalves at
 antonegonsalves@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  