-- 
Kenya Yields Rise to at Least 5-Year High as Central Bank Takes 3% of Bids

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-06-09T09:35:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/kenya-yields-rise-to-at-least-5-year-high-as-central-bank-takes-3-of-bids.html
Kenya ’s yield on one-year Treasury
bills climbed to the highest in at least five years at a sale
where the central bank accepted only 3.2 percent of bids as
investors demand higher returns amid surging inflation.  The yield on the 364-day debt rose to 10.249 percent, the
Nairobi-based Central Bank of Kenya said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. That’s the highest since at least March
2006, when Bloomberg began keeping records of the data. The
yield advanced from 6.772 percent at the previous auction. The
bank, which had offered 5 billion shillings ($57 million) of the
debt, accepted 281 million shillings of bids.  “Investors are bidding aggressively as they realize the
current fiscal year is coming to an end and the central bank may
be tempted to take up all bids to meet the government financial
need,” Ronald Olembo, a dealer at Nairobi-based CfC Stanbic
Bank Ltd., said in a phone interview today.  The government faces “huge demand” for additional
spending to fund implementation of a constitution enacted in
August, and to help cope with drought in an economy that is
about 25 percent reliant on agricultural production, the  finance
ministry  said in its March 23 budget policy statement.  Government borrowing rose to 125 billion shillings in the
current fiscal year, from an original estimate of 105 billion
shillings, to fund those programs, the ministry said.  Inflation, Costs  Kenyan government borrowing costs are increasing as the
East African nation’s inflation rate jumped to a 25-month high
of 13 percent in May. Price growth is expected to advance
further this year as dry weather curbs agricultural production,
central bank Governor Njuguna Ndung’u said on June 6.  “It is instructive to note that major investors in this
market have pushed the rates to levels that make domestic debt
expensive,” the central bank said. “The government therefore
cannot contract debt at such levels.”  Kenya’s monetary policy committee raised the benchmark
interest rate by a quarter percentage point to 6.25 percent and
the  cash reserve ratio  by the same amount to 4.75 percent,
central bank said on May 31.  “The decision to take less than it had offered is informed
by the market seeking higher returns of up to 12 percent, which
would have distorted the long end of the yield curve,” Ann
Musyoka, a bond dealer at Nairobi-based Tsavo Securities Ltd.,
said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  