-- 
Keyless Nook Beats Kindle for Easy E-Reading: Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-06-08T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/keyless-nook-beats-kindle-for-easy-e-reading-rich-jaroslovsky.html
As impressed as I am with  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN)  for launching the electronic-book market, there’s one thing
about the groundbreaking Kindle that I could do without: its
keyboard. Those little round buttons and navigation controls are
just too hard to use and take up too much real estate for the
value they provide.  Rival  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  apparently agrees. It has just
come out with a new version of its Nook e-reader that can best
be described as a Kindle-sans-keys. The Kindle with keys is
already a very good e-reader. The new Nook, with its easier,
more intuitive user interface, is even better.  Techies love arguing the relative merits of gadgets like
these, basically only good for one thing, versus multi-function
wonders like  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad, or even Barnes & Noble’s own
budget-priced Nook Color.  For many people, though, it’s the very lack of bells and
whistles that makes the dedicated e-reader attractive (along
with its lower price, feather weight and smaller size). Those
folks will find the new Nook especially appealing.  As with the previous-generation Nook and Kindle, the
similarities in size, screen and price surpass the differences.
The Kindle is slightly thinner, the Nook at a mere 7.5 ounces an
ounce lighter; both can be comfortably held in one hand for long
periods of time and claim battery life of up two months. You
probably won’t do that well in the real world, but it’s
certainly fair to say you can go weeks between charges.  ‘Special Offers’  Both cost $139 for a Wi-Fi-only version, though Amazon
gives you more choices, including a higher-priced model with
built-in 3G access as well as other versions that knock the
price down in return for subjecting you to “special offers”
(read: “advertising”). Both have extensive online stores for
buying content and allow you to add your own documents.  Both also feature the latest six-inch-diagonal, gray-scale
display from  E Ink Holdings Inc. (8069)  While the screen isn’t anywhere
near as vivid or book-like as the displays on liquid-crystal-
display-based tablets like the iPad, it is, unlike LCD devices,
easily read in bright sunlight.  Absent those little keys, the Nook is an inch shorter than
the Kindle. That leads to the most significant difference: In
place of the keyboard, the Nook has a touch screen that can be
used for navigation, and to enter information, for instance, to
annotate a passage you’re reading.  Sharper Image  The Nook isn’t the first single-purpose e-reader to utilize
a touch screen, but the earlier efforts sacrificed sharpness.
Like  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s latest Reader line, the Nook uses an infrared
system that has no appreciable impact on quality.  Page turns are smooth and crisp, unlike on the original
Nook, which I found agonizingly slow. The new one also gives you
several methods from which to choose. You can tap or swipe the
screen, as on an iPad, or use physical buttons -- they’re more
like ridges, really -- on the bezel framing the screen. There
are four of them, a pair on each side, to accommodate both
righties and lefties. I didn’t much like them: Besides being
redundant, they required too much pressure.  Barnes & Noble has also figured out a way to reduce by more
than 80 percent the page-turn screen-flashing that for many
users is the most disconcerting aspect of using an E Ink device.
In five page turns out of six, the text simply morphs from the
old content to the new. Only on the sixth turn do you get that
momentary black screen.  Hidden Android  The touch-sensitive keyboard that materializes on the
screen as needed works pretty well for the limited uses to which
it is put. And those uses are indeed few. Although the Nook runs
a version of  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android mobile-device software, you
wouldn’t know it. Almost all traces of the operating system,
including the ability to surf the Web and handle e-mail, have
been stripped out of the Nook.  These are things the Kindle does, if begrudgingly. Barnes &
Noble seems to have dispensed with them in the interest of
simplicity. You might feel differently, but for me they were
unmissed and unmourned. Too many other devices around do those
things far better than a gray-scale e-reader ever could, not the
least of them the Nook Color.  The new Nook isn’t for playing games or music, or for
looking things up on Wikipedia. It’s good for one thing --
reading -- which it does simply and well.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 