-- 
King’s Stance Aided by Fisher’s Caution on Recovery as BOE Holds Key Rate

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-06-09T11:47:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/king-may-find-support-to-hold-key-rate-as-fisher-leads-defense.html
Bank of  England  Governor  Mervyn King ’s push to keep  interest rates  at a record low may have
strengthened this month as his top official for financial
markets leads a defense against advocates for an increase.  Paul Fisher  said last week he wants to be sure the economy
is over its “soft patch” before the key interest rate is
increased and that officials who share his view should be more
vocal. The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee, led by King,
held the key rate at 0.5 percent today, as forecast by all 55
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Investors have pushed back bets on the first rate increase
to next year after factory and services growth slowed last month
and data showed  consumer spending  plunged in the first quarter.
The MPC meeting is the first since the departure of Andrew Sentance, who led calls for higher rates as inflation
accelerated to more than double the bank’s 2 percent target.  “It’s clear that the doves seem to have the upper hand at
the moment,” said  Brian Hilliard , an economist at Societe
Generale SA in London and a former Bank of England official.
“King’s position is a bit more comfortable than a few months
ago because of those concerns about growth and the market is
scaling back its rate expectations.”  The bank also left its bond-purchase program at 200 billion
pounds ($328 billion), as predicted by 35 economists in a
separate poll.  The pound rose 0.1 percent to $1.6425 as of 12:45 p.m. in
London. The yield on the two-year benchmark government bond was
little changed at 0.85 percent.  ECB Decision  The  European Central Bank , whose policy makers are meeting
in  Frankfurt , kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 1.25
percent after raising it by a quarter percentage point in April.  U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said earlier
this week that stimulus is still needed to boost a
“frustratingly slow” recovery. The Fed said in its Beige Book
yesterday that the economy expanded at a “steady pace” in most
districts, while slowing in four of 12 regions.  In the U.K., investors are betting on a quarter-point rate
increase in April, according to forward contracts on the
sterling overnight interbank average, or Sonia, compiled by
Tullett Prebon Plc. Less than a month ago, they were betting on
November 2011.  Credibility  Deputy Governor Charles Bean voiced his support for the
 Bank of England ’s current policy on May 19, saying that a
“temporary” period of above-target inflation is acceptable if
officials need to aid the economy.  Fisher backed Bean’s view, questioning whether it would be
right to risk the recovery “just so we could be more certain of
keeping our credibility?” He said he spoke up as “those of us
in the majority” are “not out there quite as much giving a
clear steer of what our view is.”  Fisher also said he would consider adding to the bond
program if the economy took a “sudden downturn.”  Adam Posen 
has voted for more bond purchases since October, the only MPC
member to favor such a move.  Sentance,  Martin Weale  and Chief Economist Spencer Dale
have taken the opposite view. Dale, who has voted for a quarter-
point rate increase since February, said last month that while
he’s “not confident about the strength of the recovery,” he is
“even more worried about inflation.” Vocalink said today that
annual wage growth in the three months through May was 1.8
percent, the fastest since August 2009.  Sentance, who began calling for higher rates a year ago and
sought a 50 basis-point increase since February, was replaced by
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist Ben Broadbent on June 1.
Minutes of today’s decision will be published on June 22.  Consumer Weakness  “I don’t suppose the hawks will throw in the towel
completely just yet, but  Andrew Sentance  has now left so that
has weakened that camp,” said  Jonathan Loynes , chief European
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London. “In the
foreseeable future, it’s more likely for the MPC to swing toward
a more dovish sentiment given the tone of the data.”  While the economy grew 0.5 percent in the first quarter,
investment and consumer spending slumped the most in almost two
years. Manufacturing expanded at the slowest pace in 20 months
in May and services grew the least since February, according to
Markit Economics Ltd., which said the data indicate economic
growth this quarter may not exceed 0.3 percent.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  ABN Amro  Bank NV responded to
signs of cooling growth by pushing back their forecasts for the
first U.K. rate increase. JPMorgan now sees the bank raising
borrowing costs in November compared with a previous prediction
of August, while ABN Amro projects no move until 2012.  “The past few weeks have seen a raft of disappointing
data,” said  Hetal Mehta , an economist at Daiwa Capital Markets
 Europe  who forecasts no change in rates this year. “Although
near-term inflation is still a concern,” once the increases in
sales tax and commodity prices “fall out of the annual
calculations, it is likely to drop close to the 2 percent target
next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  