-- 
Kinks at Sunset, Vodka Cocktails, Buying Jewels: London Weekend

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i   a n d   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 
2011-06-08T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/kinks-at-sunset-vodka-cocktails-buying-jewels-london-weekend.html
“Waterloo Sunset” is best heard on
a summer evening alongside the Thames, performed by the man who
wrote it.  Ray Davies, who penned the lyric in 1967 about lovers
meeting by the river every Friday after work, will run through
his catalogue of Kinks and solo numbers tomorrow night at the
Royal Festival Hall.  Davies’s concert opens this year’s nine-day Meltdown
Festival. The program he has chosen includes a recreation of the
U.K. television show “Ready Steady Go!” on Saturday, with
performances by Paloma Faith, Sandie Shaw and the Ronettes
singer Ronnie Spector.  Meltdown Festival, through June 19 at Southbank Centre,
Belvedere Road, SE1 8XX. Information: +44-20-7960-4200 and
 http://www.southbankcentre.co.uk/   Saturday  Take a look inside the Libyan leader’s tent.  Camel cigarettes, Kit-Kat bars and huge sunglasses are
spread around Colonel Muammar Qaddafi’s desert dwelling -- as
painted by Stephen Farthing at the  Royal Academy  of Arts’ Summer
Exhibition. The tent has command-and-control screens and a fleet
of fighter planes are parked outside.  The Summer Exhibition is usually a bit of a hodgepodge.
It’s more coherent this year, with two fine rooms curated by
artist Michael Craig-Martin. You can buy a Tracey Emin for 325
pounds ($532): a graphic gravure called “Bleeding” (from an
edition of 100).  The show -- sponsored by Bank of New York Mellon Corp.’s
Insight Investment Management -- ends on Aug. 15. Information:
 http://www.royalacademy.org.uk  or +44-844-209-0051.  The  Royal Academy  now has a first-class restaurant in
Peyton & Byrne. Chef Mark Hollyer uses ingredients from
specialist producers to create dishes such as ham hock salad and
pea & broad bean risotto. The wine list features special-edition
labels designed by academicians including Emin and  Gary Hume .
Information:  http://bit.ly/dLU6BG  or +44-20-7300-5608.  Saturday Night  It’s your last chance to see an ape find his feet as a
human in London this weekend. Kathryn Hunter plays the part of
Red Peter, a chimpanzee that exchanges a Gold Coast cage for the
European music-hall stage and finds it just as constricting.  The star of “ Kafka’s Monkey ” starts imitating his captors
and is obviously more intelligent than them. Peter offers
bananas to the audience and checks them for fleas. The fun turns
sour as the ape’s eloquence and frustration grow. Hunter, who
has crossed genders with roles such as  King Lear  and Cleopatra,
this time hangs off ladders and dejectedly heads for the exit in
a heartbreaking farewell.  Hunter’s energy drives Colin Teevan’s 45-minute adaption of
Franz Kafka’s short story “A Report to an Academy,” now
finishing its second run at the Young Vic’s small Maria studio.  Young Vic, 66 The Cut, Waterloo, SE1 8LZ. Ends Saturday
June 11. Information: +44-20-7922-2922 or
 http://www.youngvic.org/   Baltic is a five-minute stroll from the Young Vic, and best
visited after the performance -- in case you’re tempted by the
many vodka varieties served at the bar. The restaurant’s pre-
theater menu is 14.50 pounds for two courses and 17.50 pounds
for three. Information:  http://www.balticrestaurant.co.uk  or
+44-20-7298-8487.  Sunday  Get your diamond wedding ring authenticated for free --
unsettling though that may be.  A mobile certification lab will be operating throughout
 London  Jewellery Week, which ends on Sunday. If you’re not happy
with the outcome, you can buy a replacement band on the spot, or
learn how to make one in a goldsmith’s workshop.  The fair is spread across London locations, including
Holborn and Old Spitalfields Market. Information:
 http://www.londonjewelleryweek.co.uk  or +44-20-7241-7492.  (Farah Nayeri and Mark Beech write for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
their own.)  To contact the writers on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London at 
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .
Mark Beech in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/# !/Mark_Beech  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 