-- 
KKR Said Is to Seek a Minority Stake in ING Unit Amid GE, Capital One Bids

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-06-08T19:17:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/kkr-said-is-to-seek-a-minority-stake-in-ing-unit-amid-ge-capital-one-bids.html
KKR & Co., the leveraged-buyout firm
run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , is pursuing a minority
investment in  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s U.S. online bank, a person with
knowledge of the matter said.  The potential deal may involve ING keeping a majority stake
in the unit, known as ING Direct USA, or selling it to another
bidder, the person said, speaking on condition of anonymity
because the talks are private.  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Capital
One Financial Corp. (COF)  submitted bids last week for the bank,
people with knowledge of the sale talks said this week.  A private-equity bid for some or all of ING Direct USA is
unlikely to prevail against one from a company that’s already in
the lending business, said another person with knowledge of the
sale process. ING is pushing to reach an agreement with a buyer
as soon as this month, and may get $9 billion in a sale, the
people familiar with the talks said.  ING is under European Union orders to sell the U.S. unit by
2013 as a condition of its bailout, which included a 10 billion
euro ($14.6 billion) government lifeline received in 2008. ING
is also divesting its insurance units to comply with the terms.  Kristi Huller, a spokeswoman for New York-based KKR, and
Carolien van der Giessen, a spokeswoman for Amsterdam-based ING,
declined to comment.  KKR has taken minority stakes in financial firms before. In
1991, the company put up $283 million to help Fleet/Norstar
Financial Group buy the collapsed Bank of New England Corp. The
buyout firm ended up with a minority stake in Fleet.  Legg Mason  In 2008, KKR bought a $1.25 billion stake in  Legg Mason
Inc. (LM) , the Baltimore-based  money manager , in the form of
convertible notes.  A sale of ING Direct USA is complicated by the fact that
the U.S. lender holds part of a pool of Alt-A mortgage assets
that are the subject of Dutch government aid. The government
agreed to assume 80 percent of the risk of the portfolio.  The government isn’t interested in guaranteeing assets
owned by a third party, Dutch Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager
told members of parliament in The Hague today. ING suggested
moving the assets out of ING Direct USA to another part of ING,
he said.  Alt-A loans, considered a step above subprime mortgages in
terms of expected defaults, were often granted to borrowers who
didn’t document their income or bought investment properties.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in  New York  at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 