-- 
Korean Won Rises on Prospect Fed to Sustain Policy to Support U.S. Growth

-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 
2011-06-08T00:56:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/korean-won-rises-on-prospect-fed-to-sustain-policy-to-support-u-s-growth.html
South Korea ’s won gained the most in
a week after Federal Reserve officials signaled they will keep
policies to support economic growth.  The dollar fell against most of its major counterparts
yesterday after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
record monetary stimulus is still needed to boost a
“frustratingly slow” recovery. The won exchange rate is
determined by economic fundamentals and the government hasn’t
tried to artificially weaken the currency, Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said in parliament in Seoul yesterday.  “Bernanke’s comments suggest that the  U.S. economy  is
sluggish, damping demand for the dollar and boosting appetite
for riskier assets,” said Han Sung Min, currency dealer at
Busan Bank in  Seoul . “Concerns that South Korean authorities
may step in, in case the won gains are rapid, are weighing on
the won.”  The won rose 0.3 percent to 1,079.13 per dollar as of 9:38
a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That was
the biggest gain since June 1.  The nation’s economy is growing at an expected pace, Bank
of Korea director Jung Yung Taek said. The bank said today that
the economy expanded 1.3 percent in the three months through
March from the previous quarter, less than the April estimate of
a 1.4 percent gain. Gross domestic product grew 4.2 percent from
a year earlier, unchanged from the earlier estimate.  Five-year  government bonds  dropped, with the yield on the
notes due March 2016 rising one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 3.8 percent, according to prices from Korea Exchange
Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  