-- 
Kyrgyzstan Leader Warns of ‘Arab Spring’ Effect in Central Asia

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-06-08T13:56:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/kyrgyzstan-leader-warns-of-arab-spring-effect-in-central-asia.html
Kyrgyzstan’s interim president,  Roza Otunbayeva , who introduced the first parliamentary democracy in
Central Asia, said other countries in the energy-exporting
region should follow suit after uprisings in the Middle East.  “After what happened in North Africa and the Middle East,
slowly European countries started recognizing that it’s
unacceptable, outrageous, that those dictators shoot their
people,” Otunbayeva said today at the  World Economic Forum  on
 Europe  and Central Asia in Vienna. In Kyrgyzstan, “everything
is open today, we have an open press, we have a strong civil
society, and this is the total opposite to those places which
all of us watch with a lot of concern,” she said.  Gas-rich Uzbekistan, where President Islam Karimov has
ruled since 1989, cracked down on an uprising in the eastern
city of Andijan in May 2005, leaving hundreds dead. Kazakh
President Nursultan Nazarbayev, who has been in power for two
decades in the former  Soviet Union ’s second-biggest energy
producer, won re-election in April with 95.5 percent of the vote
in a ballot criticized by international observers.  Otunbayeva, 60, is the head of a provisional government
that assumed power after the overthrow of President  Kurmanbek Bakiyev  in April last year. Kyrgyzstan held parliamentary
elections in October that the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe praised for their “political pluralism
and vibrant campaign.” The Kyrgyz leader said that she won’t
run in presidential elections later this year.  The European Union’s Special Representative for Central
Asia, Pierre Morel, said the lesson from the so-called Arab
Spring is that corruption breeds unrest.  ‘Systematic Corruption’  “We have seen with the events across the North Africa and
 Middle East  region that systematic corruption leads to
revolution,” he said. “This is a basic political process, so
political debate is the government’s means to reduce tolerance
for corruption.”  Nazarbayev, 70, whose central Asian country has been
courted by the West as an alternative energy source, has called
for stability after the Middle East was gripped by turmoil that
ousted the leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt . His continued dominance
and the lack of an anointed successor increase risks for
investors in  Kazakhstan  because they may complicate an orderly
transfer of power when he eventually retires, analysts say.  Kazakhstan holds about 3 percent of the world’s crude oil
reserves, according to BP Plc. Exxon Mobil Corp., Royal Dutch
Shell Plc, Eni SpA, OAO Lukoil and China National Petroleum
Corp. have a part of  $120 billion in investments  in the country,
which is also the world’s largest uranium producer.  The  Development Bank  of Kazakhstan, a state-owned lender
that promotes industry, in December cited the lack of a clear
successor to Nazarbayev as a risk factor in a $2 billion bond
prospectus.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Vienna at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  