-- 
Najafi Said to Be Considering Buying Borders Book Stores Out of Bankruptcy

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 
2011-06-08T15:23:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/najafi-said-to-be-considering-buying-borders-book-stores-out-of-bankruptcy.html
Najafi Cos., a private equity firm,
is considering buying  Borders Group Inc. (BGP) , the bankrupt book
store chain, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Najafi is performing due diligence, the person said. Gores
Group LLC, the Los Angeles-based private-equity firm, is bidding
for at least half of Borders’s stores, another person familiar
with the matter said June 1.  Borders, based in  Ann Arbor , Michigan, was founded 40 years
ago as a single used bookstore. The company, the second-largest
book chain after  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) , had 642 stores in February
when it filed for court protection and, after closing 237 of
them, has 405 still operating. Under Chapter 11 of the
 bankruptcy code , the company would hold an auction to sell
itself, and find the best deal to repay its creditors.  Najafi, based in Phoenix, bought the French Direct Group
Business of CD and DVD clubs from Bertelsmann AG,  Europe ’s
biggest media company, in May.  The interest from Najafi as well as from Gores bodes well
for Borders’ creditors, and many stores could still be
liquidated depending on the acquirer’s digital strategy, said
Schuyler Carroll, a partner at Perkins Coie LLP in New York who
specializes in bankruptcy.  “Borders would be a good outlet for Najafi considering the
Bertelsmann assets,” Carroll said. “You have to have some
strategy for buying Borders. The younger generation doesn’t walk
into a bookstore to buy a book.”  Borders bankruptcy lawyer Andrew K. Glenn and Borders’
creditor lawyer Bruce Buechler didn’t return calls for comment.  “The sale process has become significantly more robust,”
Glenn said in  Manhattan  court June 2. He said he couldn’t
discuss details of the offers and that the company hopes to
complete a sale in two to four weeks.  Najafi’s potential bid was reported yesterday by the Wall
Street Journal.  The case is In re Borders Group Inc., 11-10614,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story: Tiffany Kary in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: John Pickering
at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  