-- 
Nakheel Chief Chris O’Donnell Quits Dubai Developer of Palm-Shaped Islands

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 
2011-06-09T08:36:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/nakheel-chief-chris-o-donnell-quits-dubai-developer-of-palm-shaped-islands.html
Nakheel PJSC Chief Executive Officer
Chris O’Donnell left the Dubai-based builder of palm tree-shaped
islands as it restructures $10.5 billion of debt.  O’Donnell, who joined the Dubai World unit in 2006, quit
after his contract ended, Nakheel said in a statement yesterday.
Chief Financial Officer Sanjay Manchanda will replace him until
further notice, the company said.  The CEO is the second top Nakheel official to leave the
company since it began to restructure debt last year. The
developer appointed Ali Lootah to replace Sultan Ahmed bin Sulayem as chairman in March 2010 and added four new board
members.  “The departure won’t affect Nakheel’s strategy, which at
this point is determined by the government and the chairman,”
said Majed Azzam, an analyst at AlembicHC Securities in Dubai.
“Once the restructuring is completed, the new CEO will have to
start making some tough decisions on what to do with Palm Jebel
Ali and other projects that are on hold.”  Nakheel, which constructed an artificial archipelago shaped
like a world map, plans to issue 4.8 billion dirhams ($1.3
billion) in Islamic bonds, or sukuk, to contractors by the end
of June, Al-Ittihad newspaper reported May 23. The company has
already paid 4.6 billion dirhams owed to trade creditors.  Dubai’s property prices slumped 64 percent from the market's
peak in mid-2008, Deutsche Bank AG estimates, after mortgage
lending dried up, forcing speculators to flee the market. The
government has pledged to give Nakheel $8 billion to help repay
contactors and complete projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 