-- 
Afghanistan Nation Building May Fail: Senate Report

-- B y   J a m e s   R u p e r t   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 
2011-06-08T09:18:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/nation-building-in-afghanistan-may-fail-senate-report.html
Almost $19 billion in U.S. aid to
stabilize  Afghanistan  may be having the opposite effect by
promoting corruption and undermining the Afghan government, a
U.S. Senate report says.  As the White House prepares to withdraw some troops from
Afghanistan this year and end the U.S. combat role by 2014,
“the evidence that stabilization programs promote stability in
Afghanistan is limited,” said the 51-page report by Democratic
majority members of the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee . Much
of the U.S. spending in Afghanistan since 2002 has been on
projects, including schools, clinics and roads that the Afghan
government will be unable to maintain, it said.  With 97 percent of the country’s gross domestic product
generated by spending on foreign troops and aid efforts,
“Afghanistan could suffer a severe economic depression when
foreign troops leave in 2014 unless the proper planning begins
now,” the report’s authors concluded.  Many of their criticisms echo years-old complaints by
President  Hamid Karzai , notably that most international aid is
delivered through foreign companies or non-government
organizations whose big budgets drain personnel and capacities
from the government. Karzai says layers of foreign contractors
absorb much of the aid and form a part of the  corruption  that
has helped to undermine his administration.  "Medical doctors or engineers don’t work for the government
in their profession; they work as interpreters for the NGOs,"
said Tooryalai Wesa, Karzai’s appointee as governor of the
southern province of Kandahar, where U.S.-led forces last year
forced Taliban guerrillas to abandon outright control of many
rural districts.  School Enrollment  Foreign development companies and organizations offer
salaries 10 times greater than the “$100 or $200 a month at the
most” that the government can afford to pay, Wesa said
yesterday in an interview at an international conference in
 Montreal .  The report praised U.S. aid donations that have backed
Afghan programs such as one that  funds villages  in building
small projects of their own choosing, including local clinics,
bridges or hydro-power generators. Successes from international
aid in Afghanistan include “a sevenfold increase in the number
of children attending school and significant improvements in
health care,” it said.  While the U.S. has targeted its aid heavily at southern and
eastern provinces that are strongholds of the Taliban, the
effort has failed to build governments there. The 80 percent of
spending by the U.S. Agency for International Development that
goes to the south and east is being used mostly “for short-term
stabilization programs instead of longer term development
projects,” the report said.  Defense Groups  In  Kandahar , the most politically important of the southern
provinces, local government for years has existed only on paper.
In its rural districts, which are analogous to U.S. counties and
have populations of up to 80,000 people, “we just had a
district governor with a police chief; there were no other
representatives,” Wesa said.  Wesa is focusing on building administrations in four of the
province’s 17 districts, choosing those that surround the
provincial capital, Kandahar city. Now, “I have 20 to 30
employees of the government,” including health and development
workers, in each of those four district, he said.  To establish a police presence in rural areas, Wesa and
other governors last year hired village men as “local police”
who are given assault rifles,  pickup trucks  and three weeks’
training to serve as local defense groups against the Taliban.  Jail Break  “The disadvantage is that the insurgents may have
penetrated the system,” sending guerrillas to join the village-
based units, Wesa said.  Taliban still use their penetration of government
institutions to strike in Kandahar. A suicide bomber in a police
uniform killed the provincial police chief at his headquarters
on April 15.  On April 25, Taliban completed a nearly 400-meter tunnel
into the city’s main prison and used it to free about 500 fellow
guerrillas in what officials said was an inside job. The
operation freed more than 100 of the key lower and mid-level
commanders whose capture has helped weaken the Taliban in the
past year, according to analysts such as Bill Roggio of the
U.S.-based  Long War Journal , which monitors the conflict.  As many as 80 escapees have been recaptured, and about 15
people, including prison employees, have been arrested in the
case, Wesa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net ;
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  