-- 
NATO Defense Ministers Plan to Raise Pressure on Qaddafi Regime

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-06-08T08:58:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/nato-defense-ministers-plan-to-raise-pressure-on-qaddafi-regime.html
NATO plans to step up pressure on
Muammar Qaddafi’s regime as the alliance gains momentum in its
air campaign over  Libya , underscored by daytime strikes
yesterday that leveled parts of Qaddafi’s compound.  Defense ministers of the 28-member alliance are meeting
today at the North Atlantic Treaty Organization headquarters in
Brussels to discuss Libya. NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said this week he’ll ask for a broader effort after
the alliance added attack helicopters to its arsenal striking
Libyan loyalist forces.  “NATO has raised the pressure on Libya enormously,”  Jan Techau , head of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace
in Brussels, said in an interview. “The shift to using NATO
helicopters and warplanes flying daytime air strikes shows how
confident the alliance has become.”  As a four-month effort by rebels and the United Nations-
mandated air strikes gains pace, Rasmussen is seeking to push
the debate toward planning for a post-Qaddafi Libya. The Libyan
leader, speaking publicly for the first time in three weeks
yesterday, expressed defiance in an audio broadcast on state TV.  “We are stronger than their missiles, stronger than their
planes,” Qaddafi said, as NATO warplanes increasingly focus
their attacks on the Libyan capital.  Last Gates Meeting  U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  arrived for his final
meetings with NATO counterparts before leaving office this
month. The  U.S. Senate  will hold a confirmation hearing this
week for President Barack Obama’s nominee to succeed Gates,
Central Intelligence Agency Director Leon Panetta.  Gates arrived in Brussels after a four-day farewell visit
to U.S. troops in  Afghanistan .  Air strikes in Libya in the past month have pushed Qaddafi
loyalists out of the western port city of Misrata, which is in
rebel hands, and aided some rebel gains in the Berber highlands
in the west. Rebels this week said they seized control of the
western mountain town of Yefren.  Qaddafi has suffered defections. Libyan generals, two
colonels and a major defected to rebel forces at the end of May,
bringing the total number of Libyan army officers who have left
Qaddafi to 120, Libya’s former ambassador to the  United Nations ,
Abdel Rahman Shalgham, said on May 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Viola Gienger in Brussels at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  