-- 
NATO Pressing Spain, Poland to Do More in Libya Operation

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-06-08T17:44:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/nato-pressing-spain-poland-to-do-more-in-libya-official-says.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
and NATO leaders are pressing alliance members including Spain
and  Poland  to step up or join an extended operation in Libya,
officials said.  The two countries are among those with assets such as jet
fighters that may help ease the burden on nations that have been
attacking Muammar Qaddafi’s forces as part of the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization mission for 10 weeks, a Western official
said on condition of anonymity in order to discuss closed-door
proceedings at a meeting of NATO defense ministers in Brussels
today.  Gates urged NATO members to join the fight or remove limits
they’ve placed on their participation, a U.S. official said
separately, also on condition of anonymity to discuss the
proceedings.  The U.S. defense chief, who is retiring at the end of this
month, urged  Spain , Turkey and the Netherlands during the
meeting to consider joining strike operations, the most
intensive element of the military campaign, officials familiar
with the discussion said.  He also called for Germany and Poland, which aren’t
participating in the Libya mission, to get involved, the
officials told reporters. President  Barack Obama  failed to
persuade German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to join Operation
Unified Protector during her visit to  Washington  this week.  Libya Operation Extended  Broadening military contributions has become more critical
since NATO decided last week to extend the operation for an
additional 90 days when the current mandate expires on June 27.
The military mission currently involves 14 of NATO’s 28 members
and four non-NATO countries: Qatar, the  United Arab Emirates ,
Jordan and Sweden.  Only  France , the U.K.,  Canada , Norway, Belgium, Denmark,
 Italy  and the U.A.E. are conducting air strikes on ground
targets such as Qaddafi’s air defenses. Others are enforcing a
no-fly zone against Qaddafi’s forces and conducting patrols
under an arms embargo.  “I have also encouraged other allies to broaden their
support for our operation,” NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen told reporters in Brussels today, without naming
countries. “We will keep up the pressure for as long as it
takes to bring this crisis to an early conclusion.”  Spanish Defense Minister Carme Chacon said her country is
committed to the goals of the Libya mission.  “Spain will remain in the mission till we achieve these
goals,” Chacon told reporters in Brussels.  Complex Transition  Rasmussen said Qaddafi’s collapse and departure may be only
weeks away and that the  United Nations  should take the lead in
coordinating  Libya ’s “long and complex” transition to a
democratic state.  Even as the mission has strained some participating
countries financially and militarily, the main reason for
seeking to expand responsibility is to share the burden since
the alliance agreed unanimously to pursue it, the U.S. official
said.  The U.S. is doing about 75 percent of refueling to allow
longer, more intensive strike operations and providing at least
70 percent of intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance, the
official said.  For some of the other countries carrying large parts of the
burden, the Libya operation is their first air-to-ground war in
a long time, if ever, the official said.  More Military Spending  Some NATO members have increased their military spending
since the 1999 Kosovo campaign, which involved air strikes on
ground targets.  Still, Danish and Norwegian forces are conducting more than
the optimum pace of air strikes, while the Canadians and
Belgians are flying at about the average rate, the U.S. official
said.  The operation has been a lesson for NATO that such missions
might arise quickly and members have to be better prepared, the
official said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in Brussels at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Brussels at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  