-- 
NATO Chief Expects ‘Long, Complex’ Transition in Libya After Qaddafi Exit

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-06-08T22:33:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/nato-says-qaddafi-s-42-year-rule-could-end-in-weeks-strikes-will-continue.html
NATO’s chief said that the end of
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s regime may be only weeks away
and that the United Nations should take the lead in coordinating
the North African nation’s “long and complex” transition to a
democratic state.  Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen cited “clear
progress” in ending Qaddafi’s 42-year rule and said allies in
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization will continue their
campaign as long as necessary. Still, he said, world leaders and
Libyan rebels must begin planning for the situation after the
regime’s downfall.  “Qaddafi is history,” Rasmussen told reporters yesterday
in Brussels at a meeting of defense ministers from the 28-member
alliance. “It may take weeks, but it could happen tomorrow --
and when he goes, the international community has to be ready.”  “The management of the aftermath -- whenever and however
it occurs -- will be a complex issue for the whole international
community to address,” British Defense Minister  Liam Fox  said.  Foreign ministers from the 22-nation  Libya  Contact Group
meet today in  Abu Dhabi  to discuss their support for the Libyan
opposition and the outlook after Qaddafi.  For the third meeting of the contact group, the oil-rich
 United Arab Emirates  is recruiting more Arab support for the
NATO-enforced air campaign, according to U.S. officials who
spoke on condition of anonymity. The U.A.E. and Qatar were the
first Arab nations to take part in the UN-authorized no-fly zone
over Libya.  Post-Qaddafi Libya  Discussions will deepen on what NATO allies envision for a
post-Qaddafi Libya, including whether he and his family may stay
in the North African country, according to senior administration
officials. Regarding exile, there are no specific offers on the
table, the officials said.  The escalation of NATO’s campaign was underscored June 7 by
a daytime bombardment of the Libyan capital, Tripoli, and
targets in and around Qaddafi’s compound. Daylight strikes
continued in the capital yesterday, the  Associated Press 
reported.  Targets on June 7 included five command-and-control centers
in Tripoli, NATO said. British Tornado and Typhoon warplanes
participated in a strike on a military vehicle depot within
Qaddafi’s Bab al-Aziziyah complex, Major General Nick Pope, a
U.K. military spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  The intensification comes as rebels, who control the
country’s east, make gains and the Libyan leader faces a series
of high-level defections.  Oil Prices  Oil rose to a one-week high in New York after OPEC failed
to reach an agreement on production targets for the first time
in at least 20 years at its meeting in Vienna today. Crude oil
for July delivery rose $1.65 to $100.74 a barrel on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange, the highest settlement since May 31. Prices
are up 40 percent in the past year.  Rasmussen said that NATO would take a back seat in any
post-Qaddafi transition process and that the alliance expects
the UN to take the lead in Libya after Qaddafi leaves power. He
said the rebels’  National Transitional Council  must guarantee a
peaceful change.  The rebels have a “big responsibility to ensure that the
transition to democracy will take place in a peaceful and
orderly fashion,” the NATO secretary general said. He repeated
that the alliance had no intention of deploying ground troops in
Libya.  Rasmussen, a former Danish prime minister, said NATO allies
have the necessary resources to carry out the mission. The
alliance this week added British and French attack helicopters
to its arsenal.  Seeking Help  NATO is pressing members including Spain and  Poland  to step
up their efforts in Libya and for more allied nations to join as
the alliance extends the military campaign.  “NATO has raised the pressure on Libya enormously,”  Jan Techau , head of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace
in Brussels, said in an interview. “The shift to using NATO
helicopters and warplanes flying daytime air strikes shows how
confident the alliance has become.”  Air strikes in Libya in the past month have pushed Qaddafi
loyalists out of the western port city of Misrata and aided some
rebel gains in the Berber highlands in the west. Rebels this
week said they seized control of the western town of Yefren.  Defections from Qaddafi’s regime include generals, two
colonels and a major who switched to rebel forces at the end of
May, bringing the total number of army officers who have left
Qaddafi to 120, Libya’s former ambassador to the  United Nations ,
Abdel Rahman Shalgham, said on May 30.  Qaddafi Defiant  Qaddafi, speaking publicly on June 7 for the first time in
three weeks, following strikes in Tripoli, expressed defiance in
an audio broadcast on state television.  “We are stronger than their missiles, stronger than their
planes,” Qaddafi said, as NATO warplanes increasingly focus
their attacks on the capital.  U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  participated in his
final meeting with NATO colleagues before leaving office this
month. The U.S. Senate  Armed Services Committee  will hold a
confirmation hearing today for President Barack Obama’s nominee
to succeed Gates, Central Intelligence Agency director Leon Panetta.  Even as NATO intensified its campaign, U.S. lawmakers moved
yesterday to curtail their country’s involvement. A bipartisan
group of senators introduced a resolution requiring the Obama
administration to provide detailed justification of U.S.
operations in Libya.  Senate Resolution  The resolution, put forward by Virginia Senator  Jim Webb , a
Democrat who served as President  Ronald Reagan ’s secretary of
the Navy, and Tennessee Republican Senator Robert Corker, would
also prohibit the deployment of U.S. ground troops in Libya.  It also calls on Obama to ask Congress to authorize
continued U.S. involvement in the north African country.  Describing the president’s move to order military action in
Libya as “a very troubling historical precedent,” Webb said
Obama had failed to provide a compelling rationale for getting
involved. In a March speech, the president said that “our
conscience and our common interests” in fundamental human
rights drove the U.S. to intervene in Libya.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Viola Gienger in Berlin at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  