-- 
NBA Has ‘Open and Robust’ Negotiations With Union, Commissioner Stern Says

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-06-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/nba-has-open-and-robust-negotiations-with-union-commissioner-stern-says.html
The  National Basketball Association 
and its players’ union will reconvene at a Dallas hotel for a
second day of meetings about a new labor contract, three weeks
before the existing agreement expires.  “I won’t call it heated, but it was good and frank, open
and robust,” NBA Commissioner David Stern said about the first
day of talks yesterday. “That’s a good thing.”  Stern and NBA Deputy Commissioner Adam Silver took part in
about five hours of discussions between almost all of the NBA’s
11-owner labor relations committee and the nine-player executive
committee of the  National Basketball Players Association .  Billy Hunter, executive director of the NBPA, left
yesterday’s session without talking to reporters and union
spokesman Dan Wasserman declined to comment. NBPA executive
committee members Roger Mason Jr. and Keyon Dooling said the
union would comment after today’s talks.  It’s the second time discussions have taken place during
the NBA Finals, which is tied at two games apiece after the
 Dallas  Mavericks beat the Miami Heat 86-83 last night. The union
and league met for four hours in Miami on June 1, after which
Hunter said he was hopeful an agreement can be reached before
the existing deal ends on June 30.  The sides are arguing over how to divide more than $4
billion in league revenue.  Salary Cap  The league wants to limit team payrolls to $45 million a
year, which Hunter said players vehemently oppose.  In addition, owners want at least partially non-guaranteed
contracts, because the league expects to lose $300 million this
season, Stern said in April. Twenty-two of the 30 franchises are
expected to lose money, Silver said. The number of money-losing
teams is fewer, the NBPA has said.  Yesterday’s talks covered the salary cap and contracts as
well as the split of revenue between owners and players.  “There was nothing that we said, ‘OK, we have an agreement
on this and let’s put it on the side,” Stern said. “There was
a far-ranging discussion.”  The current labor contract allows teams to spend beyond the
salary cap in certain situations. A so-called hard cap is used
in the  National Football League  and  National Hockey League .  The NFL locked its players out in March, leaving the sides
in a legal battle that the NBA and its union are trying to avoid,
Stern said.  “I just take it as a real positive that we’re continuing
to meet,” Stern said. “It’s just easy if you don’t think that
there’s a possibility of a breakthrough to just pack it in and
say, ‘Let’s go home.’ But nobody on either side wanted to go
home.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in Dallas at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 