-- 
Nestle Says Commodity Costs to Weigh on First-Half Margins

-- B y   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 
2011-06-08T11:28:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/nestle-says-commodity-costs-to-weigh-on-first-half-profitability.html
Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s largest food
company, said higher raw-material costs and marketing spending
will weigh on first-half profitability.  The increase in input costs this year will probably be near
the high end of the company’s forecast range of 2.5 billion
Swiss francs ($3 billion) to 3 billion francs, Chief Financial
Officer Jim Singh said today at a conference for investors and
analysts that was available via webcast.  “This year we had the heavy impact of the costs now, in
the first five, six months,” Singh said. Nestle had higher
margins in the first half of last year compared with the full
year, he said.  Nestle in April reported a gain in first-quarter revenue
and said profitability would improve in the second half as it
raised bottled-water prices and sold more premium pet food. The
effect of pricing should increase throughout this year, Chief
Executive Officer Paul Bulcke said today. First-quarter pricing
boosted sales by 1.6 percentage points.  Singh reiterated that the company expects sales excluding
acquisitions, divestments and currency swings to rise 5 percent
to 6 percent this year. Nestle also expects higher margins for
earnings before interest and taxes as well as trading operating
profit this year, based on constant currencies, he said.  ‘Absolute Possibility’  Nestle’s sales in emerging markets need to increase at
least 8 percent to 10 percent a year for the company to reach
its goal of getting 45 percent of revenue from that region by
2020, Frits van Dijk, head of the company’s business in  Asia ,
 Africa , Oceania and the  Middle East , said today at the
conference. That’s an “absolute possibility,” he said.  Internal growth is a “priority” even as Nestle has made
some acquisitions in emerging markets, he said. The pace of
purchases in the region has been slower than in the developed
world because it’s sometimes difficult to find companies that
are easy to integrate and have the right “chemistry,” the
executive said.  “There are challenges,” he said. “In Asia particularly,
 shareholder value  is a very different notion for many
companies.”  Nestle has rejected “a lot” of acquisition candidates in
emerging markets, van Dijk said. The company is awaiting
regulatory approval for the purchase of a 60 percent stake in
 China ’s Yinlu Foods Group, he added.  Emerging-Market Outlook  Inflation will probably accelerate, especially in emerging
markets, though global growth should continue, CEO Bulcke said.
New competitors are emerging in developing markets as local
entrepreneurs and international companies seek to capitalize on
growth, he said.  The company’s first priority with its cash is to invest in
expanding its own brands, Bulcke said, adding Nestle may make
“bolt-on” acquisitions.  Nestle Health Science, a unit formed this year to develop
treatments to prevent chronic disease, aims to expand in Asia,
particularly China, said Luis Cantarell, CEO of the unit.  Nestle’s board hasn’t decided on the company’s future share
buyback program, and the Nespresso maker will comment on its
policy around the time of its first-half results, which are due
Aug. 10, CFO Singh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 