-- 
New Hampshire Lawmakers Pass Carbon-Market Repeal Measure

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-06-08T20:02:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/new-hampshire-lawmakers-pass-carbon-market-repeal-measure-1-.html
New Hampshire ’s Republican-led
legislature cleared a bill to withdraw the state from the U.S.
Northeast’s carbon-trading market, a proposal that may be vetoed
by Governor John Lynch.  The legislature passed a shoreland protection bill today
with an amendment that would pull New Hampshire out of the 10-
state  Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative , Carole Alfano, a
spokeswoman for Senate Majority Leader Jeb Bradley, said in an
e-mail.  Lynch, a Democrat, opposes the measure, spokesman Colin
Manning said today. Lynch “won’t support something that would
pull New Hampshire” from the carbon market, Manning said.  The cap-and-trade program forces power plants to buy
pollution allowances for the carbon dioxide released from their
smokestacks.  New Jersey  Republican Governor  Chris Christie  said
May 26 his state will exit the program by the end of this year.  The Senate voted 14-9 today to pass the bill, Alfano said.
At least 16 Senate votes are needed to override a veto, she
said. The shoreland protection bill with the cap-and-trade
repeal was approved by the state House of Representatives by
voice vote on June 1.  The carbon-trading program includes the six New England
states, New Jersey,  New York , Delaware and  Maryland . Since 2008,
they have raised more than $860 million by auctioning carbon-
dioxide allowances. Results of the 12th quarterly auction of
carbon-dioxide allowances, conducted today, will be released
June 10.  Some states, including New Hampshire, used part of the
proceeds from the auctions to plug budget holes. Almost two-
thirds of the money is set aside for energy-efficiency and
renewable-energy projects, according to a Feb. 28 report from
the cap-and-trade program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  