-- 
New Zealand May Bring Forward Interest Rate Rise as Bollard Sees Recovery

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-06-09T22:22:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/new-zealand-leaves-benchmark-rate-at-record-low-2-5-to-bolster-recovery.html
New Zealand ’s central bank may start
to reverse a March interest-rate cut and boost borrowing costs
sooner than previously estimated as the economy recovers from
the nation’s deadliest earthquake in 80 years.  Five of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News brought
forward their predictions for an increase in the official cash
rate after Governor Alan Bollard said yesterday a gradual rise
over the next two years will be needed. Eight say the  Reserve
Bank of New Zealand  will lift the benchmark by Dec. 31 after
keeping it at a record-low 2.5 percent yesterday.  New Zealand’s dollar advanced yesterday to a record 83.02
U.S. cents, an appreciation that Finance Minister Bill English
has said is a “headwind” for exporters. The central bank
expects growth will more than triple to a 10-year high of 4.8
percent in 2012 from 1.5 percent this year as soaring commodity
prices and rebuilding after the Feb. 22 Christchurch quake buoy
expansion.  “The  Reserve Bank  is more confident about the growth
outlook and more worried about upside risks to inflation,” said
 Darren Gibbs , chief economist at Deutsche Bank AG in Auckland.
“It is clear that the Reserve Bank wished to give itself the
option of moving a little earlier than December.”  Gibbs yesterday brought forward his forecast rate change to
December from March. Among the remaining eight out of 16
economists in the Bloomberg survey who don’t expect an increase
this year, four expect a move in January and four see a March
adjustment.  Interest-Rate Swaps  There is an 80 percent chance Bollard will increase rates
by a quarter of a percentage point to 2.75 percent in December,
ANZ National Bank Ltd. prices for  interest-rates  swaps showed at
9:40 a.m. in Wellington, up from a 64 percent chance before
yesterday’s rate announcement. There is a 24 percent chance of
an October increase.  “As gross domestic product growth picks up, underlying
inflation is expected to rise,” Bollard said in a statement
yesterday. “A gradual increase in the official cash rate over
the next two years will be required to offset this.”  Bollard today said he was surprised at the market reaction
to his comments, which has seen the currency reach the highest
since exchange rate controls were removed in 1985.  ‘Doesn’t Add Up’  Markets have “over-interpreted the desirable strength of
the  New Zealand dollar ,” Bollard said in an interview on Radio
New Zealand’s Morning Report program. “If our forecast results
in an increase in the dollar, that means we have less need to
increase interest rates late this year or early next year. It
doesn’t add up.”  The yield on the 6 percent government bond maturing April
2013 rose as much as 11 basis points to 3.32 percent yesterday.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. The yield is 3.27
percent at 9:40 a.m. in Wellington.  The central bank projected yesterday that the three-month
bank bill yield, an indicator of cash rate trends, will gain 30
basis points in the fourth quarter this year and increase
another 160 points over 2012.  “The track is consistent with a picture of cash rate
increases at some stage over the next year,” Bollard told
reporters yesterday. “The market expectations approximately
expect that the RBNZ could move at the end of the year and
that’s not inconsistent with the way that we’re looking at it,
but that will depend on the economic data as it comes through.”  Bolster Confidence  The central bank cut the benchmark rate in March to bolster
confidence after the temblor in the southern city of
Christchurch killed more than 180 people, closed the central
business district and slowed spending.  “While many firms and households continue to be adversely
affected, it appears the negative confidence effect of the
earthquake on economic activity throughout the rest of the
country has been limited,” Bollard said in the quarterly
monetary policy statement yesterday.  The economy will be buoyed by record-high commodity prices
and a recovery in household spending and employment, the central
bank said. Rebuilding of Christchurch is expected to begin in
2012 and underpin the  construction industry , it said.  New Zealand’s three biggest exports are dairy, meat and
wood products, with 30 percent of the nation’s gross domestic
product coming from shipments abroad. Prices of commodity
exports rose to a record last month, according to an ANZ
National Bank Ltd. index on June 1.  Dairy Exporter  Auckland-based Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s
largest dairy exporter, said May 24 that it may pay its New
Zealand suppliers 10 percent less for milk solids in the year
ending May 31, 2012, amid a strengthening currency and signs of
increasing global dairy production.  New Zealand’s annual inflation rate will peak at 5 percent
in the year ending June 30, reflecting one-time government
charges including an increase in  sales tax  that added 2
percentage points, the central bank forecasts.  New Zealand company executives raised their expectations
for the nation’s inflation rate to the highest in almost three
years, according to the 75 business managers surveyed for the
 central bank . Inflation will average 3 percent in two years, the
survey showed.  “It would be of concern if the recent pick-up and
relatively high level of surveyed inflation expectations
persisted,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net . 