-- 
New York, Northeastern States Will Bake One More Day Before Cool Moves In

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 
2011-06-08T19:44:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/new-york-northeastern-states-will-bake-one-more-day-before-cool-moves-in.html
High temperatures in  New York  and the
Northeast that have sent electricity demand to near record
levels and boosted health risks will last one more day before a
cold front sweeps them away, according to forecasters.  Parts of New York may reach 98 degrees Fahrenheit (37
Celsius) tomorrow before the front drives temperatures down 10
to 15 degrees, said Rob Carolan, a meteorologist with  Hometown
Forecast Services  in Nashua,  New Hampshire .  “The heat is going to break pretty quickly,” Carolan said
by telephone. “That front is going to continue to be barreling
east and it has the potential to set off some severe weather
tomorrow, but it doesn’t look like it is going to be a tornadic
event.”  The frontal system caused a 25-degree swing in  Minneapolis ,
where temperatures of 78 today followed a daily record of 103
degrees yesterday, according to the  National Weather Service .  Wholesale electricity on the PJM Interconnection, a
benchmark for the mid-Atlantic region and operator of much of
the grid from Washington to Chicago, climbed to the highest in
three years today. Power for delivery tomorrow rose $44.52, or
28 percent, to $203.49 a megawatt-hour, the highest price since
June 9, 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’re expecting around 144,895 megawatts at peak demand
today, which if we do that, it’ll be a record for June,” said
Paula DuPont-Kidd, a spokeswoman for Norristown, Pennsylvania-
based PJM.  Power Prices  In the  New England  Power Pool, electricity jumped $61.20,
or 88 percent, to $130.74 a megawatt-hour, the highest price
since Jan. 21 and the biggest one-day advance since July 2,
2010. Power in New York increased $7.60, or 11 percent, to
$74.54 a megawatt-hour, the most expensive price since Dec. 17.  “Both the Midwest and the East are at or approaching their
peak levels of heat today so that the national cooling demand
level should be at its zenith for this current event,”  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC, in Bethesda,
 Maryland , said today in a note to clients.  There’s more than enough generating and power-line capacity
in New York to meet today’s expected peak usage of 31,000
megawatts, the highest so far this year, said Ken Klapp, a
spokesman for the New York Independent System Operator, which
controls the statewide  power grid . Similar demand is expected
tomorrow, he said in a telephone interview.  Available Capacity  Available capacity is 35,862 megawatts, well above the
minimum needed to guard against a blackout from plant shutdowns
or high-voltage system failures, the operator said in a
statement on its website. New Yorkers used as much as 26,642
megawatts yesterday when the temperature reached  87 degrees in
Central Park . The record was 33,939 megawatts on Aug. 2, 2006.  “It still isn’t near the peak of last year or the
record,” Klapp said.  Natural gas futures hit a 10-month high for the third
consecutive day. Gas provides about 30 percent of the nation’s
power-plant fuel.  In New York, the city has opened cooling centers for people
seeking relief.  Washington  warned residents to guard against the
heat and suggested refrigerating spray bottles full of water
“for a quick refreshing spray to you face after being
outdoors,” according to a city statement.  Air quality alerts have been issued from New Hampshire to
 Georgia , warning that ground-level ozone concentrations will
“approach or exceed unhealthy standards,” the weather service
said on its website. People with respiratory problems or heart
conditions and children and adults engaging in strenuous
activity should limit their time outdoors.  In his 6- to 10-day outlook, Rogers said New England will
probably be cooler than normal from June 13 to June 17. Heat
will continue across the U.S. South and be particularly intense
in  Texas , he said.  “We could press Texas back to the 100-degree level early
next week,” Rogers said.  The heat will probably spread through the Midwest from June
18 to June 22, Rogers said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Parker in  Chicago  at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 