-- 
New Type of Supernova, 10 Times Brighter, Found by Scientists

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-06-08T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/new-type-of-supernova-10-times-brighter-found-by-scientists.html
A new class of  supernova , 10 times
brighter than previous explosions, may illuminate star-forming
clouds in distant, primitive galaxies, enabling scientists to
observe stellar creation.  Four of these exploding stars have been observed, according
to a paper published in the journal  Nature . Also, two previously
unexplained events are now known to be this kind of supernova,
the researchers said.  A supernova is the explosion of a  massive star  at the end
of its life, when fuel is exhausted. If the star is large, the
core collapses, releasing a burst of energy. The newly
discovered explosions are 100 billion times brighter than the
sun, said the study’s lead author,  Robert Quimby , an
astrophysicist at the  California Institute of Technology  in
Pasadena.  “We didn’t know stars could blow up like this,” said
Quimby in a telephone interview. “They’re brighter than entire
galaxies.”  The new supernovas may also light up primitive galaxies,
which would give astronomers the opportunity to see what an
older universe looked like, Quimby said.  “Earlier in the universe, stars were more massive than
they are now,” he said. “These may be very similar to the
first supernova in the universe.”  The bigger a star is, the faster it burns fuel. A massive
star begins by burning hydrogen, which is converted into helium
by the reaction. After the helium is gone, the pressure in the
star’s core will be sufficient to burn carbon and oxygen,
leading to other elements forming.  In a traditional  type II supernova , the star will continue
burning elements until iron forms. Eventually, the entire star
collapses inward, and an explosion occurs, blowing everything
outside the core apart.  ‘Partied Hard’  In the new type of supernova, the star is so large that it
may not get as far as creating iron, Quimby said. The stars that
produced the new type of supernovas were very large, and burned
for only 3 million years. There may have been a runaway reaction
at the oxygen stage, creating the explosion, he said.  “These stars partied hard,” Quimby said.  They are located in distant dwarf galaxies, which are a
10th the size of the Milky Way, the Earth’s galaxy. One of the
explosions Quimby located was 5 billion light years away.
Another was 8 billion light years.  A second study published in Nature today examined a more
recent, closer supernova, SN1987A. After the initial explosion’s
light faded from 1994 to 2001, X-rays led to a second wave of
brightness, which more than doubled by the end of 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 