-- 
New York Ironman Will Be World’s Most Expensive Triathlon at $1,000 Entry

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-06-08T04:01:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/new-york-ironman-will-be-world-s-most-expensive-triathlon-at-1-000-entry.html
New York ’s inaugural  Ironman  could
cost as much as $1,000 to enter, making it the world’s most-
expensive triathlon.  Officials at World Triathlon Corp., Ironman’s parent
company, said they’ll have to spend “several million” dollars
on permits,  law enforcement , medical personnel and other race-
related expenses for next year’s endurance event.  “We’re still in the process of getting in all of the
final bids and contracts,” Steve Meckfessel, chief operating
officer of World Triathlon, said in an interview.  World Triathlon yesterday said the 140.6-mile (226.2-
kilometer) competition will be held in the New York
metropolitan area on Aug. 11, 2012. Athletes will race through
parts of  New York City  and suburbs in New York and  New Jersey .  In addition to permitting expenses, organizers plan to
lease six barges to be placed in the Hudson River to be used
for the start of the 2.4-mile  swim portion . A platform will
also be constructed across the river to enable swimmers to exit
the water and begin the 112-mile  bike leg  in  Fort Lee , New
Jersey.  Costs will exceed those at other Ironman events, such as
the World Championship in Kona,  Hawaii , and the European
Championship in  Frankfurt ,  Germany , Meckfessel said. An entry
fee for a typical Ironman event is $575.  “$750 is certainly a given,” Meckfessel said. “Most of
our prices worldwide are about $600. It’s going to be higher
than that.”  Title Sponsor  The company expects to have a corporate title sponsor in
place before the race, Chief Sales Officer Mike Pine said.  “Being in New York, there’s so much opportunity with
title sponsors that we haven’t been able to attract in the
past,” he said. “Things like airlines, hotel chains, health
insurance or even an alcohol partner.”  Registration for the race will open June 15 on a first-
come, first-serve basis. The field will consist of about 2,500
professional and amateur athletes.  “The first year of a triathlon, you don’t really know
what the course can handle,” said John Korff, president of
 Korff Enterprises , which will organize the race in partnership
with World Triathlon. “It could grow to 2,800, 3,200 or even
3,500.”  Korff has staged the  Nautica NYC Triathlon  at the Olympic
distance of 31.9 miles for the past 11 years. That race is now
part of the  Ironman 5150 Series .  The New York Ironman race is being put on in partnership
with the  Robin Hood Foundation , a charity that helps fund
poverty programs and groups in New York. The goal is to raise
$250,000 this year for the charity.  ‘Tough Ironman’  Robin Hood Foundation  team member Charles Macintosh, a
mortgage trader at Morgan Keegan Inc., has done more than 100
triathlons and won the Janus Corporate Challenge division of
the Nautica NYC Triathlon in 2008 and 2009.  “I suspect it will be an extremely fast swim,” said
Macintosh, who’s done Ironman  France  and is shooting for under
10 hours at Ironman Florida later this year. “It’s probably
going to be a pretty hilly bike course. All in all it’s going
to be a tough Ironman.”  The cost may not deter competitors. About 2,000 of the
approximate 3,000 competitors in the 2010 NYC Triathlon worked
in the financial services industry, race officials said, and
Ironman competitors have an average annual income of $161,000,
according to World Triathlon.  Race Course  The  Hudson River  swim will be followed by a bike ride from
the Palisades Parkway on the west side of the Hudson to Fort
Lee, New Jersey, after looping through New Jersey’s Bergen and
New York’s Rockland counties. The race concludes with a  26.2-
mile run  from Fort Lee to Riverside Park in  Manhattan .  Competitors have 17 hours to finish, making it difficult
to close large sections of the city, organizers said. Because
of this, most of the race’s bike portion will take place
outside of Manhattan.  The event joins 26 other long-course races held  around the
globe  by World Triathlon. The company yesterday also announced
a new Ironman-distance event in  Mont-Tremblant ,  Quebec , to be
staged Aug. 19, 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Buteau in New York at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  