-- 
Murdoch Hires Two Public-School Managers to Run News Corp. Education Unit

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-06-08T20:25:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/news-corp-hires-kristen-kane-peter-gorman-to-help-run-education-division.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  hired two public-school
officials to help run its education division, part of Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch ’s efforts to expand
the business started about six months ago.  Kristen Kane, 36, the former chief operating officer of
the New York City Department of Education, will become the COO
of the News Corp. unit. Peter Gorman, 47, the superintendent
of schools in the Charlotte-Mecklenburg school district in
 North Carolina , will become a senior vice president focused on
building the division’s business inside public-school
districts, New York-based News Corp. said today.  News Corp. in November hired  Joel Klein , 64, the former
New York City schools chancellor, to help build an education
business. Two weeks later, News Corp. agreed to buy 90 percent
of education-technology provider Wireless Generation for $360
million, marking the company’s foundation of an education unit.  In a speech last month in Paris, Murdoch called education
“the last holdout from the digital revolution.” The key to
improving education, Murdoch said, according to a transcript of
the speech, “is the software that will engage students and help
teach them concepts and to learn to think for themselves.”  News Corp.’s education division is focused on
“individualized, technology-based” content and tools for
students and teachers, according to the company’s statement.  News Corp., which owns the Wall Street Journal and the Fox
broadcast network, fell 6 cents to $16.67 at 4 p.m. New York
time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have gained 14
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  