-- 
Nigerian Cocoa Crop Threatened by Shortage of Chemicals, Farm Group Says

-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 
2011-06-08T14:06:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/nigerian-cocoa-crop-threatened-by-shortage-of-chemicals-farm-group-says.html
Cocoa output in  Nigeria , the fourth-
largest producer of the beans, may be reduced by a shortage of
the chemicals needed to spray farms against disease, an industry
group said.  “We are expecting an increase in the harvest this year
because the weather is favorable,” Neji Abang Neji, secretary-
general of the Cocoa Association of Nigeria, which represents
farmers, traders and processors, said by phone today from Akure
in western Nigeria. “But if farmers do not spray their farms,
black pod disease will overrun them.”  The level of rainfall this year in the cocoa-growing areas
has been good, and as rains increase farmers have come “under
pressure to spray their farms,” Neji said. Black pod, a fungus,
thrives in wet conditions.  Nigerian farmers use  Syngenta AG (SYNN) ’s Ridomil, a fungicide, to
protect cocoa against black pod, and the importer was late to
place orders for the product, Neji said. Emmanuel Ajayi, chief
executive officer of Biostadt Nigeria Ltd., previously known as
Syngenta Nigeria, said the product has arrived and is being
cleared at ports.  “We targeted June arrival and the farmers will have
whatever quantity they need soon,” Ajayi said today by phone
from Calabar in southern Nigeria.  Cocoa-bean exports from Nigeria rose to 200,333 metric tons
in 2010, from 195,885 tons a year earlier, according to figures
from the Federal Produce Inspection Services, a government
agency that supervises cocoa exports. Shipments of the beans
represent the second-biggest foreign exchange earner for
Nigeria,  Africa ’s leading oil producer, according to government
figures.  Two Harvests  Nigeria ranks behind the  Ivory Coast ,  Ghana  and  Indonesia 
as the world’s largest cocoa producer, according to the website
of the  International Cocoa Organization .  Nigeria’s cocoa year is divided into two harvests. The
main-crop harvest begins in October and ends in January, while
the light-crop season, the smaller of the two, usually begins in
March and ends in June. Farmers spray their land between May and
June, Ajayi said, as part of preparations for the new crop year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 nvwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  