-- 
Nigeria’s Jonathan Says Terrorism a Domestic Issue He Can Manage

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-06-08T19:17:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/nigeria-s-jonathan-says-terrorism-a-domestic-issue-he-can-manage.html
Nigeria ’s President Goodluck Jonathan
said Islamic radicals who have attacked government officials and
security forces are a “domestic problem” unrelated to his
election or the nation’s split between a mainly Muslim north and
a predominantly Christian south.  “I can promise you that as a government we are committed
and up to the task and will bring it down,” Jonathan told
reporters at the  United Nations  in  New York , ahead of a meeting
today in  Washington  with President Barack Obama. “It does not
rise to the level where we will have to ask President Obama or
other world leaders for assistance.”  Authorities in Nigeria’s north have blamed a radical
Islamic sect, Boko Haram, which draws inspiration from
 Afghanistan ’s Taliban movement, for bomb attacks and killings
targeting government officials and security forces. More than
14,000 people died in ethnic and religious clashes between 1999
and 2009 in Nigeria, Africa’s top oil producer and most populous
nation, according to the Brussels-based  International Crisis
Group .  At least 14 people were killed and 17 seriously wounded
when three blasts went off yesterday in the northeastern
Nigerian city of Maiduguri, including one at the state
government secretariat, Borno state police spokesman Lawal
Abdullahi said. In a separate incident, a gunman in the city
suspected to be an Islamic militant shot dead Ibrahim Mohammed,
a Muslim cleric, late yesterday at his home, Abdullahi said.  Jonathan, 53, a Christian from the oil-rich Niger River
delta region, defeated his nearest rival,  Muhammadu Buhari , a
northern Muslim, in the April 16 vote by a 57 percent to 31
percent margin. At least 800 people were killed as protests by
supporters of the opposition candidate, a former military ruler,
triggered violence between Muslim and Christian ethnic groups,
according to New York-based Human Rights Watch.  Terrorist Attacks  “We have challenges, but it has nothing to do with the
elections,” Jonathan said. “It has nothing to do with
Christians and Muslims. Boko Haram would rather attack Islamic
groups that embrace the western way of life. Even the most
powerful countries are confronted with terrorist attacks. You
have to manage it and gradually suppress it.”  Jonathan said he would use a “carrots-and-sticks
approach,” of negotiations with Boko Haram and the use of
military force if talks fail. He pointed to the negotiations and
amnesty program that has reduced violence in the  Niger Delta .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  