-- 
Nintendo Falls Amid Questions Whether New Console Can Repeat Wii’s Success

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-06-08T08:34:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/nintendo-falls-amid-questions-whether-new-console-can-repeat-wii-s-success.html
Nintendo Co. fell to the lowest in
more than five years after the unveiling of its high-definition
video-game console prompted some analysts to question the
company’s ability to repeat the success of its Wii model.  The world’s largest maker of video-game players plans to
begin selling the WiiU next year, Nintendo said yesterday at the
annual Electronic Entertainment Expo in  Los Angeles . The motion-
sensing device, using a proprietary optical format for games,
will be able to play all game titles made for the Wii, said
Reggie Fils-Aime, president of Nintendo America.  “There were high expectations from the new version of the
Wii and this fell far short,” Yusuke Tsunoda, an analyst at
Tokai Tokyo Securities Co., said by phone today. “People had
expected to see something more at a big event like the E3, but
there wasn’t really anything more than what’s already
reported.”  President Satoru Iwata needs the WiiU to revive sales as
Kyoto, Japan-based Nintendo’s deliveries have been shrinking for
two years. Makers of dedicated hardware including Nintendo and
 Sony Corp. (6758)  face added competition from mobile device makers such
as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , and from games played on social websites
including Facebook Inc.  Nintendo tumbled 5.7 percent to 16,930 yen at the close of
trading in  Osaka . More than 2.2 million shares changed hands,
compared with a six-month daily average of about 720,000.  Project Cafe  Nintendo didn’t provide a price for the new console,
previously referred to as “Project Café.” The controller has a
front-facing digital camera, and features a 6.2-inch touch
screen, shoulder firing pads, an expansion SD card slot and game
controls on a flat pad. It is the centerpiece of the company’s
turnaround strategy, company executives said.  With it, users are able to wirelessly connect to the
console and shift content back and forth from a large screen in
the living room to the smaller screen. Nintendo developers also
demonstrated games in which one person uses the touch screen for
cooperative play with up to four others using Wii remote
controls. This, for example, would allow one player in a hide-
and-seek game to see the whole maze, while her pursuers see only
their vantage point.  “As an industry what we haven’t achieved yet is a game
platform that is equally satisfying for all players,” Iwata
said. “This is exactly what we intend to create with our new
home platform.”  Kinect  Iwata signaled the WiiU will likely be priced at more than
20,000 yen ($250) in  Japan  when it goes on sale next year, the
Nikkei newspaper reported today, citing an interview with the
president. Nintendo is unlikely to sell the new console for the
same price as the current Wii, the report cited Iwata as saying.  International Business Machines Corp.’s microprocessors
will be used in the WiiU system, the Armonk, New York-based
company said in a statement.  Competition is increasing for Nintendo.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s
Kinect motion-sensing controller and Sony’s Move motion
controller, both introduced in the past year, have spurred
sales, according to industry tracker NPD Group.  Nintendo, projecting its first annual profit gain in three
years, in February began sales of the 3DS model, capable of
displaying images in three dimensions. The company has forecast
sales of its handheld 3DS player to climb to 16 million units in
the fiscal year ending in March.  The $250 3DS, which went on sales in the U.S.,  Europe  and
Japan this year, competes with Apple’s iPhone and smartphones
using Google Inc.’s Android software, which have attracted
gamers with third-party applications.  Nintendo must woo casual users with technology that
differentiates it from competitors, Yuki Nakayasu, an analyst at
UBS AG in  Tokyo , said in a June 2 note to investors. He has a
“buy” rating on Nintendo’s shares.  “The new platform will provide deeper game experiences
than what even the most passionate gamer have realized before,”
Iwata said yesterday. “It will let everyone see games in a
different way.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net . 