-- 
Nomura Buys Dollar, Sells Rand on Weakness Bets in South African Currency

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-06-08T16:55:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/nomura-buys-dollar-sells-rand-on-weakness-bets-in-south-african-currency.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  said it is
buying dollars and selling rand on expectation the South African
currency will weaken as signs of slowing global growth prompts
investors to shed risky assets.  The Tokyo-based bank is buying dollars at 6.76 rand, with a
target of 7.35 rand and a stop loss at 6.55 rand as a one-month
trade, Nomura analysts led by Peter Attard Montalto said in a
note e-mailed to clients. The rand declined as much as 0.9
percent to 6.7738 per dollar today, and traded at 6.7256 at 6:28
p.m. in Johannesburg.  The rand has rallied 16 percent against the dollar in the
past year as the nation’s 5.5 percent benchmark rate lured
investors seeking higher yields. Deposit returns as low as 0.25
percent in the U.S. and 0.1 percent in  Japan  have made South
African assets popular purchases for so-called carry trades,
which involve borrowing money in countries with low  interest
rates  to invest in markets offering higher returns. Even so, the
rand tends to weaken more than its emerging-market peers when
investors sell risky assets, the analysts wrote.  “Of late there have been some signs of deteriorating risk
appetite globally,” the analysts wrote. “We believe the risk
reward of using the rand as a relatively clean risk proxy to
have an opportunistic long dollar position looks quite
compelling.”  The South African currency’s three-month implied volatility
is 14.8 percent, the second-highest among more than 20 emerging-
market currencies monitored by Bloomberg after  Poland ’s zloty.
The measure suggests currency options traders expect the rand to
swing by as much as 14.8 percent in the next year.  “We are allocating $3 million to this trade, which is
around one-third of our usual high confidence size, which gives
some indication of our level of conviction,” the Nomura
analysts wrote. “As things currently stand we are not looking
to double the trade at any particular level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  