-- 
Panetta to Outline Views on Asia, Defense Budget to Committee

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-06-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/north-korea-s-army-poses-a-growing-direct-threat-to-u-s-panetta-says.html
North  Korea ’s ballistic missile
program, nuclear enrichment activities and 1 million troops are
a “growing and direct threat” to the U.S., according to CIA
Director Leon Panetta, nominated to succeed Defense Secretary
Robert Gates.  “I intend to monitor the security situation closely and
maintain the capabilities necessary to protect our interests,
defend our allies and deter North Korea,” Panetta said in
written answers to questions posed by the Senate Armed Services
Committee in advance of his testimony today before the panel.  Panetta likely will be asked more on Korea, missile
defense, the pace of the U.S. drawdown in  Afghanistan  and  Iraq ,
and weapons acquisition costs. He faces budget questions just
when Congress is trying to make cuts while maintaining a ready
military hardened by the two wars.  “If confirmed, I will work to make disciplined decisions
in ways that minimize impacts on our national security,”
Panetta said. “But it must be understood that a smaller budget
means difficult choices will have to be made,” he said.  North Korea  was not explicitly listed among the top “broad
priorities” Panetta said he’ll face.  Those were prevailing in Iraq and Afghanistan against al-
Qaeda, keeping weapons of mass destruction from terrorists and
“rogue nations,” preparing for future conflicts, preserving
the U.S. military’s combat prowess and, finally, continuing the
search for efficiencies that Gates has initiated “which will be
crucial in this time of budget constraints.”  California  Democrat  Panetta, 72, is a California Democrat who served in the
U.S. House of Representatives from 1977 to 1993 and then as
budget director and White House chief of staff in the Clinton
administration. He has been director of the Central Intelligence
Agency since February 2009. He would succeed Gates, the lone
holdover in Obama’s cabinet from the George W. Bush
administration.  Panetta’s experience as chairman of the House Budget
Committee and as director of the Office of Management and Budget
would position him as defense secretary to implement the
president’s plan to cut $400 billion in national security
spending through 2023. Panetta said he’d have a “large” role
in the review.  Asked about the national security implications of budget
deficits during a Feb. 10 hearing of the House Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence, Panetta said “there’s no question
that represents a threat that we have to pay attention to.”  ‘Difficult Choices’  Panetta, in his written answers, said he expects that
“difficult choices will have to be made” to rein in defense
spending and reduce the federal deficit.  Heritage Foundation defense analyst  Mackenzie Eaglen  said
in an e-mail “given that this nomination is a foregone
conclusion, members are really only looking out for any
ideological red flags and whether Panetta believes it is ‘when
and how,’ not ‘if,’ we cut defense by up to $400 billion before
the strategy review is completed.”  “The  United States  must continue to monitor carefully
North Korea’s weapons of mass destruction and missile
development,” said Panetta promising as defense secretary to
work closely with allies in that effort.  He also promised to support improvements in the U.S.
missile defense program.  “The United States is currently protected against the
threat of a limited intercontinental ballistic missile attack
from states like North Korea and  Iran ,” Panetta said. “It is
important we maintain this advantage by continuing to improve
the Ground-based Midcourse Defense system” that’s deployed in
Alaska and California, he said.  The U.S. ground-based system of 30 interceptors is managed
by  Boeing Co. (BA) , and supported by  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  and
 Raytheon Co. (RTN)  Raytheon builds the hit-to-kill warhead that sits
on top of 30  Orbital Sciences Corp. (ORB)  interceptors in Alaska and
California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  