-- 
Norway Companies Expect Growth to Pick Up, Norges Bank Says

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-06-08T08:51:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/norway-companies-expect-growth-to-pick-up-norges-bank-says-1-.html
Norwegian companies predict output
growth to pick up in the coming six months led by construction
and retail sales, a Norges Bank survey showed.  Companies interviewed for the regional network report
expect growth “to edge up” and are more optimistic than in
January after “slightly weaker” growth over the past three
months, the Oslo-based central bank said on its website.  “Output prospects are marginally better than in January
and suggest somewhat higher growth over the next six months,”
the bank said, citing responses from 294 companies.  Norway’s mainland economy, which excludes oil, gas and
shipping, will grow 3.25 percent this year and 3.75 percent next
year as a global revival boosts exports, the central bank
estimates. Policy makers raised their benchmark rate to 2.25
percent from 2 percent on May 12 to cool the economy as housing
prices surge and unemployment drops. The bank has signaled more
increases this year.  According to  the survey  the construction industry is
expected to show “marked growth” over the next six months,
while retail sales should see “a pronounced pick-up.”
Companies expect inflation to accelerate over the next 12
months, while employment is expected to grow at a “slightly
slower pace” than in the previous three months.  Industry Output  Manufacturing production rose 0.6 percent in April from the
previous year, the Oslo-based statistics office said today,
below the median forecast of six economists surveyed by
Bloomberg for a rise of 3.1 percent.  The krone weakened 0.6 percent against the euro to 7.8921
and declined 0.9 percent versus the dollar to 5.3863 as of 10:45
a.m. local time.  Governor Oeystein Olsen said on May 20 that the economy had
gained a “firm footing” and that “there are prospects of
fairly strong growth in the Norwegian economy ahead, driven by
solid income growth and an increasing population.”  Olsen is trying to steer a consumer-driven recovery in the
seventh-largest oil exporter as unemployment has dipped below 3
percent, spurring credit growth. Policy makers are schedule to
meet on June 22 to decide on  interest rates .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  