-- 
Obama Says Community College Training Can Help Fill Jobs Gap

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-06-08T17:03:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/obama-says-community-college-training-can-help-fill-jobs-gap.html
President  Barack Obama  said business
partnerships with the nation’s community colleges can help
prepare workers for future manufacturing jobs, lowering the
nation’s  unemployment rate  while spurring economic growth.  “Lighting a spark, that’s what community colleges can
do,” Obama said today at Northern Virginia Community College in
Alexandria, a Washington suburb. “We’ve got to light more
sparks all across America.”  The president is promoting a $2 billion government program
that tailors community college classes to local manufacturing
job-skill needs that he said will train about 500,000 young
workers over the next five years in 30 states.  The administration says job training can be one tool to
reduce the unemployment rate, which rose to 9.1 percent in May,
up 0.1 percent. Only 1.8 million of the more than 8.7 million
jobs lost since January 2008 have been regained as the U.S. has
recovered from the worst recession since the 1930s.  “The goal is to make sure your degree helps you to get a
promotion, or a raise or a job, and that’s especially important
right now,” Obama told students and officials at the college.
“We’ve got to do everything we can, everything in our power, to
strengthen and build the middle class.”  Before his remarks, Obama toured a diagnostics repair
center for hybrid vehicles, one of two such facilities for
electric cars in the U.S.  Defending Budget Priorities  With Republicans in Congress demanding budget cuts, Obama
defended  government spending  on education and clean energy, even
with the nation’s deficit forecast to exceed $1 trillion this
fiscal year and next.  “We could decide, in solving our fiscal problems, that we
can’t afford to make any of these investments,” he said. “I
don’t accept that future for the  United States of America .”  Vice President  Joe Biden  is leading negotiations with
congressional Republicans on a $1 trillion deficit-reduction
package to be considered along with raising the nation’s $14.3
trillion debt ceiling by the beginning of August.  Administration officials said in a briefing yesterday that
two new elements will add impact to the job training program
originally announced Oct. 4, 2010, with the backing of the Aspen
Institute and a unit of the  National Association of
Manufacturers .  Company Support  The first is the addition of more companies, groups or
foundations offering support by having executives join a board
overseeing the program. They include  Greg Brown , chairman and
chief executive of Motorola Solutions Inc.; Bill Green, chairman
of Accenture Inc., and  Penny Pritzker , a supporter of Obama and
chairman and chief executive of Pritzker Realty Group of
 Chicago .  Brad Keywell, co-founder and director of Groupon Inc., is
joining the board along with Nick Pinchuk, chief executive of
tool company  Snap-on Inc. (SNA) , and David Zaslav, chief executive of
Discovery Communications.  Ellen Alberding, president of the Chicago-based Joyce
Foundation, and Walter Bumphus, president and chief executive of
the  American Association  of Community Colleges also are joining
the board, the White House said in a statement.  “We’re going to have to have all hands on deck,” Obama
said.  The second effort bolstering the program is agreement by
companies and manufactures to develop a “manufacturing skills
certification program,” a kind of universally accepted
credential that affirms that a graduate has a specific set of
skills.  Community Colleges  The goal is to win adoption of the certification program at
200 community colleges, according to the White House.  U.S. manufacturing employs about 11 million Americans, the
White House said in a fact sheet.  “We haven’t been as attentive to the manufacturing sector
as we should have,”  Ron Bloom , White House adviser on
manufacturing policy, said in a briefing for reporters. While
the nation needs scientists and engineers, “we also need
skilled blue-collar workers” who “make things with their
hands.”  “The skills of your workforce are one of the central
pillars of a competitive company,” Bloom said.  When companies relocate, 61 percent say the decision is
influenced by the availability of a skilled workforce,  Gene Sperling , director of the White House National Economic Council,
told reporters.  “Listen, that old job is not coming back. Even if the
plant re-opens, the skills that were required before are not
what the skills are now,”  John Silvia , chief economist at Wells
Fargo Securities, said June 6.  “On the labor supply side, what we need are the skills,
the skills that match the 21st-century workforce,” Silvia said
on WBBR Radio’s “Midday Surveillance” program hosted by  Tom Keene .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Alexandria, Virginia, at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  