-- 
Obama Recruits Motorola, Groupon for Expanded Employment Skills Training

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-06-08T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/obama-recruits-motorola-groupon-for-expanded-skills-training.html
President  Barack Obama  is adding
companies such as Motorola Solutions Inc. and Groupon Inc. to
the list of supporters backing a $2 billion program that tailors
community college classes with local manufacturing job-skill
needs.  The goal of the program, “Skills for America’s Future,”
is to train about 500,000 young workers for manufacturing jobs
over the next five years in 30 states. They would help fill the
gap left by the 2.7 million workers 55 years and older who will
begin retiring in the next 10-15 years, according to the White
House.  The partnerships “will help us make this a reality, by
opening doors to new jobs for workers and helping employers find
the trained people they need to compete against companies around
the world,” Obama said in a statement. The president will
highlight the program later today at Northern Virginia Community
College in Alexandria, a Washington suburb.  The administration is promoting job training as one tool to
reduce the  unemployment rate , which rose to 9.1 percent in May,
up 0.1 percent. Only 1.8 million of the more than 8.7 million
jobs lost since January 2008 have been regained as the U.S. has
recovered from the worst recession since the 1930s.  Administration officials said in a briefing before the
speech that two new elements are adding heft to the program
originally announced Oct. 4, 2010, with the backing of the  Aspen
Institute  and a unit of the  National Association of
Manufacturers .  More Support  The first is the addition of more companies, groups or
foundations offering support by joining a board overseeing the
program. They include  Greg Brown , chairman and chief executive
of Motorola; Bill Green, chairman of Accenture Inc., and  Penny Pritzker , a supporter of Obama and chairman and chief executive
of Pritzker Realty Group of  Chicago .  Brad Keywell, co-founder and director of Groupon. is
joining the board, along with Nick Pinchuk, chief executive of
tool company Snap-on Inc., and David Zaslav, chief executive of
Discovery Communications.  Ellen Alberding, president of the Chicago-based Joyce
Foundation, and Walter Bumphus, president and chief executive of
the  American Association  of Community Colleges also are joining
the board, the White House said in a statement.  The second effort bolstering the program is agreement by
companies and manufactures to develop a “manufacturing skills
certification program,” a kind of universally-accepted
credential that affirms that a graduate has a specific set of
skills.  Community Colleges  The goal is to win adoption of the certification program at
200 community colleges, according to the White House.  U.S. manufacturing employs about 11 million Americans, the
White House said in a fact sheet.  “We haven’t been as attentive to the manufacturing sector
as we should have” been,  Ron Bloom , White House adviser on
manufacturing policy, said in a briefing for reporters. While
the nation needs scientists and engineers, “we also need
skilled blue-collar workers” who “make things with their
hands.”  “The skills of your workforce are one of the central
pillars of a competitive company,” Bloom said.  When companies relocate, 61 percent say the decision is
influenced by the availability of a skilled workforce,  Gene Sperling , director of the White House National Economic Council,
told reporters.  “Listen, that old job is not coming back. Even if the
plant re-opens, the skills that were required before are not
what the skills are now,”  John Silvia , chief economist at Well
Fargo Securities, said June 6.  “On the labor supply side, what we need are the skills,
the skills that match the 21st-century workforce,” Silvia said
on WBBR Radio’s “Midday Surveillance” program hosted by  Tom Keene .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  