-- 
Obama Eyes Ex-Banker for Consumer Chief

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y ,   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-06-08T17:42:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/obama-eyes-ex-banker-for-consumer-chief.html
President  Barack Obama  is considering
nominating Raj Date, a former banker with  Capital One Financial
Corp. (COF)  and Deutsche Bank AG, as head of the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, according to a person briefed on the process.  Date is already at the consumer bureau, working as a top
deputy to   Elizabeth Warren , the Obama administration adviser
who is setting up the new agency. He is on a short list of
candidates to become director, the person said.  Obama hasn’t made a final decision on who to nominate to
the post, which requires Senate confirmation, the person said.
The agency is to begin formal operations on July 21, one year
after Obama signed the Dodd-Frank financial regulatory overhaul
into law.  Date’s nomination could be a way for the Obama
administration to tamp down political controversy over the
leadership of the consumer agency, which is one of the
centerpieces of Dodd-Frank. Warren could urge her supporters to
endorse his nomination, and his industry experience has been
praised by banks that would fall under the bureau’s oversight.  Still, after 44 Republican senators announced last month
that they wouldn’t vote to approve any candidate to run the
bureau without changes in its structure, the White House might
have to resort to a temporary appointment during a congressional
recess. Sixty of the 100 senators are effectively required to
vote for a nomination due to procedural rules.  Massachusetts Senate  While Warren hasn’t indicated her plans, some Democratic
Party officials and supporters have urged her to run for the
U.S. Senate seat held by Republican  Scott Brown .  “The president is considering a number of candidates for
this position and no decisions have been made,” said  Jen Psaki ,
a White House spokeswoman. Consumer bureau spokeswoman Jennifer Howard declined to comment. Date did not immediately return a
phone call seeking comment.  Date, 40, earned an engineering degree from the  University
of California  at Berkeley and a law degree from  Harvard
University . He was senior vice president for corporate strategy
and development at Capital One and a managing director in the
financial institutions group at Deutsche Bank. During the debate
over Dodd-Frank, Date headed the Cambridge Winter Center for
Financial Institutions Policy, a research group he founded.  He has served since February as the bureau’s associate
director for research, markets and regulation.  Warren, who helped conceive the idea of a federal agency
overseeing consumer finance, hasn’t been publicly ruled out as a
candidate for director. Obama didn’t nominate her last fall
after then-Senator  Christopher Dodd , a Connecticut Democrat who
headed the Banking Committee, said she could not win
confirmation.  Previous Candidates  Since then, several potential candidates have turned back
overtures, including Jennifer Granholm, the former governor of
 Michigan , and Ted Kaufman, a former Democratic senator from
 Delaware , people briefed on the search said.  While Warren has won praise from lawmakers for the people
she’s hired at the agency, she has continued to attract
criticism from the biggest banks and from Republicans who
contend that the director would have too much authority without
enough accountability.  Warren has clashed with  House Republicans  at two hearings
about the agency’s mandate, and about her role in settlement
talks between banks, state and federal agencies over problems
with the foreclosure process. The most recent on May 24
unraveled into a dispute about scheduling during which
Representative Patrick McHenry, a North Carolina Republican on
the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, accused
Warren of lying.  Date’s Experience  When she appointed Date to the unit that will draft rules
for credit cards, mortgages,  student loans  and payday lenders,
Warren said that he and his team would “bring a wealth of
experience in the financial services industry, government, non-
profits, community banking and academia that will help us build
a world-class” research and regulations unit.  In a recent interview with Bloomberg News, Date, who joined
Capital One in 2001, recalled his tenure there during the
housing bubble. He said he told his colleagues that schemes to
make quick money off customers would have an impact on the
bank’s reputation and balance sheet.  “I was very, very boring at cocktail parties,” Date said
in the interview. “But I happened to have experience at the
intersection of issues that were uniquely important in the fall
of 2008.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 