-- 
Obreht’s ‘Tiger’s Wife’ Wins Orange Fiction Prize, $49,000

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y   a n d   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 
2011-06-08T19:29:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/obreht-s-tiger-s-wife-beats-donoghue-to-49-000-orange-prize-for-fiction.html
Tea Obreht  won the  Orange Prize for
Fiction , receiving 30,000 pounds ($49,000) and a bronze
statuette called “the Bessie” after overcoming competition
from Emma Donoghue and four other novelists in the U.K. literary
award for women.  At 25, the Serbian American is the youngest author to
capture the award, the organizers said. She was honored during a
ceremony tonight at London’s Royal Festival Hall for “The
Tiger’s Wife,” a debut novel set in a war-torn Balkan country.  Wearing a purple dress as she accepted the award, Obreht
looked stunned and delivered a long list of thank-yous. She
later told us that she never expected to win.  “I’m incredibly superstitious, so I didn’t prepare a
speech,” she said. “But a few moments before the announcements
began I thought, ‘I can’t have nothing.’ So I just wrote down a
few names I shouldn’t forget.”  “The Tiger’s Wife” (Weidenfeld & Nicolson) is narrated by
a young physician named Natalia who learns, while delivering
vaccines to an orphanage, that her beloved grandfather has died
in mysterious circumstances.  Piecing together stories her grandfather told her as a
child, Natalia is drawn into a web of fables, allegories and
violent events borrowed from newspaper headlines. Along the way,
Obreht “reminds us how easily we can slip into barbarity,”
said the head of the judging panel, Bettany Hughes.  Balkan Tragedy  “Obreht’s powers of observation and her understanding of
the world are remarkable,” Hughes said in an e-mailed
statement. “By skillfully spinning a series of magical tales,
she has managed to bring the tragedy of chronic Balkan conflict
thumping into our front rooms with a bittersweet vivacity.”  Obreht said that the next stop for her is  Serbia , to see
her grandmother, who doesn’t speak English and can’t read the
novel -- yet. There are now plans to translate the book into
Serbian and Croatian.  First awarded in 1996, the Orange Prize was founded to
celebrate fiction by women worldwide. The bookies’ favorite to
win this year’s prize was Donoghue’s “Room” (Picador), which
tells the horrifying story of a college student abducted and
held captive for years in a secure chamber, like Elisabeth
Fritzl of  Austria .  The other finalists for the prize were Aminatta Forna’s
“The Memory of Love” (Bloomsbury); Emma Henderson’s “Grace
Williams Says It Loud” (Sceptre); Nicole Krauss’s “Great
House” (Viking); and Kathleen Winter’s “Annabel” (Cape).  Previous Orange Prize recipients have included Barbara Kingsolver for “The Lacuna,” Marilynne Robinson for “Home”
and Rose Tremain for “The Road Home.”  To contact the writers on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net ;
Hephzibah Anderson in  London  at  hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 