-- 
Oil Drops on Concern OPEC to Raise Quotas as U.S. Gasoline Demand Falters

-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-06-08T12:41:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/oil-declines-erasing-earlier-gains-opec-may-raise-production-quota-today.html
Oil fell in  New York  on speculation
OPEC will increase production quotas amid evidence gains in
prices may be damping economic recovery.  Futures dropped as much as 1.1 percent after United Arab
Emirates Oil Minister Mohamed al-Hamli said the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries will supply more oil if there is a
need as delegates arrived at today’s meeting of ministers in
Vienna. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the U.S.
recovery was “frustratingly slow” yesterday in Atlanta, with
households facing rising energy and food prices, declining house
values and high unemployment.  “We take a bearish stand for the day” given the
likelihood that OPEC will raise its output targets, Filip Petersson, Stockholm-based commodity strategist at SEB AB, said
in a report. A 1.5-million-barrel increase in quotas “looks
like the most likely outcome, which could hurt crude oil market
sentiment today.”  Crude for July delivery dropped as much as $1.07 to $98.02
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $98.46 at 1:40 p.m.  London  time. Prices are
36 percent higher in the past year.  Brent crude  for July delivery fell 54 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $116.24 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The contract yesterday gained $2.30, or 2
percent, to $116.78. Prices are up 61 percent the past year.  OPEC Quotas  “There is still much uncertainty about the strength of the
world economic recovery,” Mohammad Aliabadi, the acting Iranian
oil minister and current OPEC president, said in a speech in
Vienna before the group announces its decision. OPEC is worried
about “the persistently high level of unemployment and the
sovereign debt crisis” in nations belonging to the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development, he said.  OPEC will raise its production quota for the first time in
almost four years to help replace lost Libyan supplies and meet
growth in demand later this year, a Gulf delegate said
yesterday. The group is producing 2 million barrels a day above
its official ceiling, the delegate said, declining to be named
because he isn’t authorized to speak publicly.  The group last collectively agreed a production increase on
Sept. 11, 2007, setting a quota of 27.253 million barrels a day.  “Psychologically, any quota move will be bearish for the
market in the short term,” said  Anthony Nunan , assistant
general manager for risk management at Mitsubishi Corp. in
 Tokyo . “There is a sense that the U.S. gasoline market isn’t
going to save us.”  Gasoline Demand  U.S. gasoline demand at the pump slid 2.9 percent last week
as Americans returned to work after the Memorial Day holiday
weekend, according to a MasterCard Inc. SpendingPulse report.  Production quotas will likely increase by 1.5 million
barrels a day, analysts from Societe Generale SA and Morgan
Stanley said in reports yesterday. That would be about a quarter
of the group’s spare capacity, based on Bloomberg estimates.  OPEC had 5.94 million barrels a day in spare capacity in
May, down 2.7 percent from April, based on Bloomberg estimates.
Spare capacity was 6.31 million barrels a day in March, the
highest level since May 2009.  U.S. motorists bought an average 9.19 million barrels a day
of gasoline in the week ended June 3, down from 9.46 million the
previous week, according to the MasterCard report. Averaged over
four weeks, gasoline use was 1.3 percent below the same period
in 2010, the 11th consecutive decline.  An Energy Department report today may show crude
inventories slipped by 1.38 million barrels while gasoline
stockpiles increased by 1.05 million, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of analysts.  The European benchmark crude contract traded at a premium
of $17.72 a barrel to U.S. futures on the ICE exchange. The
difference between front-month contracts in London and New York
earlier reached a record $18.25.  “Unrest in the  Middle East , North Africa region” is
causing the gap to widen, according to analysts at Vienna-based
researcher JBC Energy GmbH led by  David Wech .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  