-- 
Oil Gains for Third Day as OPEC Fails to Agree Quotas; U.S. Supplies Drop

-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-06-09T12:38:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/oil-gains-for-third-day-as-opec-fails-to-agree-quotas-u-s-supplies-drop.html
Oil rose for a third day in  New York 
on speculation that OPEC’s failure to reach an agreement on
output targets for the first time in at least 20 years may limit
supply as U.S. inventories fell more than analysts forecast.  Futures gained as much as 1 percent after climbing 1.7
percent yesterday. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries will maintain its current output for now, said
Mohammad Aliabadi, the acting Iranian oil minister and OPEC
president. A U.S. government report showed crude supplies
dropped the most since December.  “In the short run, this is price supportive,”  Andrey Kryuchenkov , London-based analyst at VTB Capital said today in a
note. “No change to production targets means the market remains
prone to price spikes, leaving it vulnerable to supply shocks
and various disruptions.”  Crude for July delivery rose as much as 96 cents to $101.70
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was at $101.56 at 1:36 p.m. London time. The
contract yesterday climbed $1.65 to $100.74, the highest
settlement since May 31. Prices are up 36 percent the past year.  Brent crude  for July delivery was at $118.15 a barrel, up
30 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
contract yesterday climbed $1.07, or 0.9 percent, to $117.85. It
was the highest close since May 4.  Proposed Increase  The European benchmark contract traded on the ICE exchange
at a premium of $16.70 a barrel to U.S. futures today.  Saudi Arabia , OPEC’s biggest producer,  Kuwait , Qatar and
the United Arab Emirates were ready to supply more oil to the
market, according to Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali Al-Naimi.
The four nations proposed a 1.5 million barrel-a-day increase
from the current 28.8 million, he said.  Libya,  Angola , Ecuador, Algeria,  Iran  and  Venezuela  were
opposed to higher limits, according to Naimi.  Iraq  is exempt
from the targets. The 11 members subject to quotas produced
26.22 million barrels a day last month, 1.375 million more than
pledged, according to Bloomberg News estimates.  “You may start to see higher  oil prices  as the question
mark over future supply grows larger,” said  Ben Westmore , a
minerals and energy economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in
 Melbourne , who predicted oil will average $113 a barrel in the
third quarter. “There is now some question arising as to how
willing OPEC is to step in and fill the breach.”  ‘Bullish Statement’  OPEC’s lack of agreement “sent a bullish statement to the
market stating that a large share of the OPEC members are
content with the current oil price level,” Bjarne Schieldrop,
chief commodities analyst at SEB AB, Sweden’s third-biggest bank
by market value, said in a note.  “What matters on the physical side is that with little oil
out of  Libya  and Yemen, the global oil market is likely to need
up to 2 million barrels a day of extra supply quarter-on-quarter
moving into the third quarter due to seasonally higher demand,”
he said.  Oil may climb as high as $150 a barrel in the next few
months after yesterday’s OPEC meeting and comments this week by
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke who said the U.S. economic
recovery was “frustratingly slow,” JBC Energy GmbH said in an
e-mailed statement.  “OPEC’s abandonment of the $70 to $90 range and a
prolonged period of cheap money could take oil prices in a first
step to $125 and in a next step to $150 within the next few
months,” analysts led by  David Wech  said in the report.
“Whether such a target can be reached, and for how long, will
depend on the extent and speed of demand ‘destruction.’”  IEA ‘Disappointed’  The  International Energy Agency  said it was disappointed
that OPEC failed to agree on an increase in output, according to
a statement e-mailed yesterday. “Ongoing supply disruptions, as
well as the fragile state of the global economy, call for a
prompt increase in supply,” the Paris-based group said.  Brent has advanced 24 percent this year as unrest in the
 Middle East  and North Africa toppled leaders in Tunisia and
 Egypt  and spread to Libya. The fighting in Libya has removed
about 1.5 million barrels a day of output from market.  Daily Brent loadings for July will rise by 13 percent,
according to a loading program obtained by Bloomberg News. A
total 4.2 million barrels of the grade, or 135,484 barrels a
day, are scheduled to load next month compared with 120,000
barrels a day in June, the program shows. The number of cargoes
will increase to seven from six.  U.S. crude stockpiles decreased 4.85 million barrels to 369
million last week, the biggest decline this year, according to
the Energy Department. A 1.38 million-barrel drop was forecast,
according to the median of responses in a Bloomberg News survey
of 14 analysts.  Gasoline supplies climbed 2.21 million barrels to 214.5
million, according to the Energy Department. They were forecast
to rise 1.1 million barrels, the Bloomberg News survey shows.  Oil markets are also looking ahead to U.S. economic data
later in the session, Schieldrop said. Initial jobless claims
fell by 3,000 to 419,000 in the week ended June 4, according to
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  