-- 
Hon Hai Says IPad Production Advances to Start Paying Off in Second Half

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-06-08T07:07:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/hon-hai-s-gou-says-apple-products-very-difficult-to-make.html
Hon Hai Precision Industry Co.
Chairman Terry Gou said steps to more efficiently make  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
products including the iPad will start to pay off in the second
half of this year and next year.  The contract electronics assembler’s profit gains have
lagged behind those of Apple because the devices are “very
difficult to make,” Gou said today at Taipei-based Hon Hai’s
annual shareholders meeting. The company is continuously
learning ways to make the products more efficiently, he said.  Hon Hai, the Foxconn Technology Group’s flagship, posted
two quarters of declining profit on higher wages and costs for
moving factories to inland  China . Gou, who founded the company
in 1974, in September cut his long-term annual sales growth
forecast in half to 15 percent from this year, after revenue
surpassed that of the company’s largest clients.  “We’ve helped Apple make a lot of money,” Gou said. “If
our customers make money, then we can also make money. I most
fear customers that don’t make money.”  Hon Hai’s net income rose 1.9 percent to NT$77 billion
($2.7 billion) in the year ended in December on a 53 percent
jump in revenue to NT$3 trillion. Apple’s profit jumped 70
percent to $14 billion in the year ended in September.  Shares Gain  The shares gained after shareholders approved a plan to pay
a dividend of NT$2 on 2010 earnings, more than initially
proposed. The stock rose 0.5 percent to close at NT$100.50 in
Taipei trading, after gaining as much as 1.5 percent to
NT$101.50.  Hon Hai plans to pay a NT$1 a share cash dividend plus NT$1
in stock on 2010 profit, matching the previous year. The board
earlier proposed a dividend of NT$1 per share in cash, and
NT$0.50 in stock.  Shareholders also endorsed a proposal to sell as many as 1
billion shares that may be issued in the form of global
depositary receipts. Hon Hai has no immediate plans to sell the
stock, Chief Financial Officer Huang Chiu-lian said in an
interview before the meeting. The board will consider market
conditions including its share price before it makes an issuance,
she said.  Hon Hai and Sharp Corp.,  Japan ’s largest display maker,
recently held further talks on cooperation between the two
companies for flat panels, with no agreement yet signed, Huang
said today on the sidelines of the shareholders meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  