-- 
Hong Kong Top Court Blocks U.S. Fund’s Bid to Seize Congo’s China Assets

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-06-08T09:58:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/hong-kong-top-court-blocks-u-s-fund-s-congo-china-suit-citing-immunity.html
Hong Kong ’s top court ruled that the
Democratic Republic of  Congo  can’t be sued in the city, saying
China’s policy is one of absolute immunity for sovereign states.  Justices Patrick Chan, Robert Ribeiro and Anthony Mason
handed down their orders today in a 201-page  ruling , subject to
an interpretation of Hong Kong’s constitution by the Standing
Committee of China’s National People’s Congress. Justices Kemal Bokhary and Barry Mortimer dissented.  FG Hemisphere Associates LLC , a so-called vulture fund
which buys distressed debt, sued Congo in jurisdictions around
the world in a bid to seize assets to enforce two arbitration
awards. In Hong Kong, its attempt to collect the payments has
tested the financial center’s judicial independence.  The case cannot be resolved without the Chinese committee’s
interpretation of what constitutes foreign affairs under Hong
Kong’s Basic Law, Chan, Ribeiro and Mason wrote.  “The municipal courts are simply not equipped to make such
a judgment,” they said of their decision to refer the matter to
 China . The three judges also rejected the argument of FG
Hemisphere’s lawyers that by accepting statements from China’s
foreign ministry the Hong Kong courts are involved in “an
abdication of their proper judicial role.”  Separate Legal System  The former British colony was guaranteed an independent
judiciary and a separate legal system for at least 50 years
under the Basic Law when it returned to Chinese rule in 1997.
Hong Kong’s rule of law and freedom of information have
supported its status as a financial center.  “China’s view is at odds with some developed countries,”
said David Bateson, a partner at Mallesons Stephen Jaques,
referring to its position on state immunity.  “But Hong Kong will still be regarded as a pro-
enforcement arbitration venue with an independent judiciary, and
you can’t say that about a lot of countries in  Asia ,” he said.  China’s foreign ministry wrote three letters to Hong Kong’s
judiciary in the course of the case stating no foreign
government can be sued in the city’s courts.  The application in Hong Kong of the principle of
“restrictive immunity,” which allows sovereign states to be
sued for commercial matters, “would prejudice the sovereignty
of China,” it wrote in an Aug. 25 letter published in today’s
ruling.  ‘Full Implementation’  The ministry today  welcomed  the ruling as a meaningful
event toward the full implementation of the Basic Law. Hong
Kong’s  Justice Department  welcomed the Court of Final Appeal’s
decision to refer sections of the Basic Law for interpretation
for the first time.  Peter Grossman, managing director at FG Capital Management
Ltd., didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail requesting his
comment on the ruling.  The court ordered today that subject to the Chinese
committee’s interpretation, a February 2010 lower court ruling
that allowed FG Hemisphere to pursue its claim be set aside.  FG Hemisphere purchased arbitration awards against Congo
worth $34.25 million. The debts, originally owed to a Sarajevo-
based company, now amount to more than $126 million with about
$30,000 interest accruing daily, according to today’s ruling.  Congo’s assets in Hong Kong are tied to locally listed
 China Railway Group Ltd. (601390)  and its related companies, which in
2008 entered into joint-venture agreements with a Congolese
state mining company, Gecamines, as part of a $6 billion
minerals-for-infrastructure agreement between China and Congo.  Entry Fees  FG Hemisphere claimed a portion of $350 million in entry
fees China Railway units agreed to pay in exchange for mining
rights in Congo. The court today provisionally made an order
lifting the freeze on China Railway’s payments.  “It has been known that the day would come when the court
has to give a decision on judicial independence,” Bokhary wrote
in his dissent. “That day has come.”  Dismissing Congo’s appeal against the claim would have
been the result “required by the independent judicial
application of the law,” he wrote. The transactions involved
are commercial, he said.  The case is between FG Hemisphere Associates LLC and
Democratic Republic of the Congo, China Railway Group (Hong Kong)
Ltd., China Railway Resources Development Ltd., China Railway
Sino-Congo Mining Ltd.,  China Railway Group Ltd. (390)  and Secretary
for Justice, FACV5, 6 & 7/2010, Hong Kong Court of Final Appeal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net  