-- 
ONGC, GAIL Said to Bid for Part of Exxon Stake in Kazakhstan’s Kashagan

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-06-08T06:35:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/ongc-gail-said-to-plan-bid-for-part-of-exxon-stake-in-kashagan.html
Oil & Natural Gas Corp., India’s
biggest energy explorer, and  GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL)  are in talks to buy
part of  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s stake in Kazakhstan’s Kashagan
field, two people with direct knowledge of the matter said.  The state-owned companies have made a non-binding offer and
will evaluate the oil and gas field in the  Caspian Sea  before
making a final bid, one of the people said, asking not to be
identified before an official announcement. The investment needs
approval from India’s Cabinet, the people said.  ONGC is searching for energy assets worldwide to make up
for a fuel shortfall at home, where Prime Minister Manmohan
Singh has targeted economic growth of more than 8 percent. The
start of production from Kashagan has been delayed to the end of
2012 from the original 2005 deadline to allow for technical
challenges in the area.  “The field has been a non-starter,” said Sandeep Randery,
an analyst with Brics Securities Ltd. in Mumbai. “All that
investment would only make sense if production can start very
soon. Significant amounts of ONGC’s cash and resources could get
blocked if they go ahead with this large deal.”  ONGC Videsh Ltd., the explorer’s overseas unit, and GAIL,
 India ’s biggest gas distributor, plan jointly to buy an 8.4
percent stake from Exxon in Kashagan, valued at $5 billion, the
Hindustan Times reported today, citing an unidentified person.  Cash in Hand  The explorer had 224.5 billion rupees ($5 billion) of cash
and near cash and GAIL had 21.3 billion rupees as of March 31,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ONGC fell as much as 2.2 percent to 270.40 rupees and was
at 272.15 rupees at 12:02 p.m. in Mumbai trading. The stock has
declined 15 percent this year compared with a 10 percent drop in
the benchmark Sensitive Index of the Bombay Stock Exchange.  ONGC Videsh Managing Director Joeman Thomas didn’t answer
two calls to his mobile phone. GAIL Chairman B.C. Tripathi’s
mobile phone was switched off and he couldn’t be reached for
comment on his office telephone.  Exxon executives couldn’t be reached at the company’s press
office in Kazakhstan and a voice mail left at its Singapore
office wasn’t immediately answered.  In 2008, partners in the Kashagan venture led by  Eni SpA (ENI) 
agreed to pay higher royalties and cede shares to state-run
KazMunaiGaz National Co. after the government criticized cost
overruns and delays.  Production Target  KazMunaiGaz holds a 16.8 percent stake in Kashagan, as do
Eni,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Exxon and  Total SA (FP) , according to the
website of their North Caspian Operating Co. venture.
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  holds 8.4 percent and  Japan ’s  Inpex Corp. (1605)  has
7.56 percent.  Kashagan, operated by Eni, is expected to produce 109.5
million barrels a year, or 300,000 barrels a day, by 2014,
according to KazMunaiGaz.  ONGC lost a bid to buy Exxon’s stake in an Angolan oil
field in March and has lagged behind its Chinese rivals as the
world’s most populous nations seek overseas assets to boost
energy security.  The explorer plans to increase investments in  Kazakhstan 
after agreeing to buy a 25 percent stake in the Satpayev
exploration block there, Chairman A.K. Hazarika said May 3.  ONGC Videsh lost 11.8 billion rupees in the 15 months ended
March 2010 because of lower production from its Russian fields
operated by unit Imperial Energy Corp., the government auditor
said March 24. Production of 15,803 barrels a day of oil from
the Imperial fields was less than the estimated 35,000 barrels a
day.  Imperial was bought by ONGC for 1.4 billion pounds ($2.3
billion) in a transaction completed in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 