-- 
Online Companies Urged by U.S. to Boost Their Cyber Defenses

-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 
2011-06-08T20:43:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/online-businesses-urged-by-u-s-to-bolster-their-cyber-defenses.html
The U.S. Commerce Department
recommended ways for companies with an online presence to
bolster their defenses against cyber attacks as part of an Obama
administration strategy on  Internet security .  Businesses should develop codes of conduct that reduce
their vulnerability to computer attacks and identify government
incentives that would encourage the adoption of sound security
practices, according to a plan released today by the Commerce
Department.  None of the proposal’s recommendations is final, and
Commerce plans to solicit industry input during the coming
months. Titled “Cybersecurity, Innovation and the Internet
Economy,” the plan focuses on establishing industry best
practices, creating incentives for improving security,
increasing training and awareness, and fostering international
collaboration.  “The goal is to focus more cybersecurity attention for the
non-critical infrastructure,” Ari Schwartz, an Internet policy
adviser at the Commerce Department, said in an interview. “This
is a space where we’re saying regulation isn’t needed, but that
doesn’t mean these companies are absolved from taking action on
cybersecurity.”  Non-Critical Infrastructure  Today’s proposal is part of a broader effort by President
 Barack Obama  to fight cybercrime. On May 12, the administration
sent an outline for cybersecurity legislation to House and
Senate lawmakers recommending tighter oversight of critical
infrastructure, such as power grids and financial networks.  The Commerce plan focuses on businesses that do not qualify
as critical infrastructure such as online retailers and social-
networking sites.  “Our economy depends on the ability of companies to
provide trusted, secure services online,” Commerce Secretary
Gary Locke said in a statement. “By increasing the adoption of
standards and best practices, we are working with the private
sector to promote innovation and business growth, while at the
same time better protecting companies and consumers from hackers
and cyber theft.”  Business associations applauded the administration’s
proposal. “Today’s recommendations will help foster innovation
and dynamism in the face of evolving cybersecurity threats,”
Robert Holleyman, the president of the  Business Software
Alliance , a Washington-based industry group that represents
software makers including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , said
in an e-mail.  Working With Commerce  The Washington-based Software and Information Industry
Association, whose members include  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)  and
 Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , welcomed the plan and said it would work
with the department to define it, according to an e-mail.  Recent hacker attacks on  Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and other
corporations have sharpened U.S. government scrutiny of how
companies safeguard consumer information and inform consumers
about cyber attacks.  In April, Tokyo-based Sony disclosed that its entertainment
networks had been targeted by hackers in incidents that exposed
account information on 100 million customers and led the company
to temporarily close its PlayStation Network. Google said in a
June 1  blog post  that an attempted hack originating in  China 
targeted Gmail accounts of U.S. government officials, military
personnel and journalists.  As the Internet grows, so has the threat of cybersecurity
attacks, according to the Commerce Department. The number of
Internet malware threats was estimated to have doubled between
January 2009 and December 2010, the department said.  In April, the Commerce Department proposed creating an
online identification system to improve the security of Internet
transactions. The effort seeks to combat online fraud, which
last year cost U.S. businesses $37 billion, according to Javelin
Strategy & Research, a Pleasanton, California-based research
group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Riddell in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  