-- 
Montenegro Steel-Mill Creditors Seek Rights Protection From EU

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-06-08T13:29:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/montenegro-steel-mill-creditors-seek-rights-protection-from-eu.html
Creditors of  Zeljezara AD Niksic (ZEHK) , a
Montenegrin steel mill, reported the country to the European
Union for allegedly violating investor rights after the company
was declared bankrupt.  Zeljezara was put into bankruptcy on April 15 by a workers
union that demanded overdue monthly wages, the Montenegrin
Economy Ministry said. Shareholders contend the action damaged
their investment because they aren’t first in line to collect
debt under Montenegro’s new bankruptcy law.  Montenegro, which is trying to attract tourism and foreign
investment after separating from  Serbia  in 2006, became a
candidate for European Union membership last December and is
also seeking to join the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. The
EU stopped short of giving the country a date for the start of
membership talks.  “Our intention is to keep local representatives of the EU
and other international bodies informed about what we see as
abuse and mistreatment of foreign investors,” said Daniel Brol,
investment manager at  Ethemba Capital LLP , which is representing
MNSS BV, a Dutch-based  investment company  which controlled just
above 50.1 percent of Zeljezara’s capital, in written comments
to Bloomberg News. The EU should consider those issues “when
assessing the progress of a country toward EU membership.”  Veselin Perisic, a court-appointed bankruptcy
administrator, did not respond to repeated calls from Bloomberg
News seeking comment about the bankruptcy and the Montenegrin
government’s response to the shareholders’ claims.  Letter Received  “We have received their letter and met with Ethemba
Capital afterwards,” Dragan Mugosa, media officer of the
Delegation of the European Commission to Montenegro, told
Bloomberg News in a telephone interview today. “We will take
their considerations to the Montenegrin government.”  Ethemba Capital are also “contemplating advising the
 credit rating agencies  about our concerns as we believe it is
important that they are made aware that the bankruptcy process
in Montenegro is not as clear-cut or equitable as one might have
expected.”  A court in Niksic where the steel mill is located,
yesterday rejected MNSS’ objections to a series of issues,
including a decision to classify Zeljezara’s 1,400 workers as a
single creditor, Brol said in written answers to questions from
Bloomberg News.  The total liabilities of Zeljezara Niksic amount to about
120 million euros ($175 million), while the book value of
Zeljezara’s assets is about 100 million euros, according to a
June 7 report from Ethemba, which cited the bankruptcy
administrator.  MNSS and its sister company together hold 60 million euros
worth of claims, followed by the government of Montenegro as the
second-biggest creditor.  Brol said Zeljezara has a design capacity for up to 400,000
tons of molten steel a year and could turn profitable if the
number of workers is cut to 600 to 700.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  