-- 
Lookers Receives ‘Indicative’ Offer From Petchey-Led Group

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 
2011-06-08T16:53:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/lookers-receives-indicative-offer-from-petchey-led-group-1-.html
Lookers Plc (LOOK) , a U.K. car dealership
owner and auto parts supplier, received an “indicative”
proposal about a possible cash offer of 80 pence a share from a
group of investors led by Jack Petchey.  The offer would value Lookers, based in Manchester,
northwest  England , at about 307 million pounds ($503 million).
The price is 45 percent higher than April 26, the day before
Lookers said it had received a “highly speculative” approach.
Lookers rose 9.4 percent to 70 pence today in  London , the
highest closing price since May 2008.  “There can be no certainty whether any offer will be made
nor, if an offer is made, as to the terms on which any offer
might be made,” Lookers said in a statement today. “A further
announcement will be made when appropriate.”  Petchey, an 85-year-old real estate entrepreneur and former
car dealer, owns Trefick Ltd., which controls 17.3 of Lookers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. He has teamed up with
Brett Palos, the stepson of billionaire retailer Sir  Philip
Green , and private equity company Moor Park Capital Partners
LLP.  The U.K. Takeover Panel originally gave Petchey’s group
until 5 p.m. today to make a so-called "put up or shut up"
statement clarifying its intentions. If it had decided not to
proceed, it would not have been able to bid for six months.  That deadline was extended until June 29 at the request of
Lookers’ advisers, the Takeover Panel said in a separate
statement today. It won’t be extended again, except with the
consent of the Takeover Panel’s executive.  Profit almost tripled last year to 22.9 million pounds from
8 million pounds in 2009, Lookers said March 9. Revenue rose to
1.88 billion pounds from 1.75 billion pounds. Sales of new cars
to private individuals rose 4.4 percent compared with a decline
of 6.1 percent across the U.K.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 