-- 
OPEC Oil Accord Breaks Down After Six Nations Block Plan to Boost Output

-- B y   F r e d   P a l s ,   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   O l a   G a l a l
-- 
2011-06-09T05:46:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/opec-members-are-unable-to-reach-consensus-on-output-quotas-el-badri-says.html
OPEC failed to agree on crude
production for the first time in at least 20 years, with six
members opposing a Saudi Arabian push to increase output,
sending  oil prices  above $101 a barrel.  “It was one of the worst meetings we’ve ever had,” Saudi
Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said after representatives of the 12-
member Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries 
adjourned five hours of talks in Vienna. “We were unable to
reach an agreement.”  Crude in  New York  jumped 2.7 percent in the 20 minutes
after the meeting ended. The split underscores growing divisions
within the group that accounts for about 40 percent of the
world’s crude. Saudi Arabia, OPEC’s largest producer, together
with Kuwait, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, proposed
increasing group output by 1.5 million barrels a day to 30.3 
million barrels. They were blocked by members including Iran
and  Venezuela , which warned of a “collapse” in prices.  “We expect OPEC’s credibility to be damaged by the
meeting’s outcome,” said Serene Lim, a commodity strategist at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in  Singapore  who
forecast oil will average $105 a barrel in New York this year,
said. “The divide among the Arab states as well as the
inability of  Saudi Arabia  to control the group may be a
supporting factor to prices.”  Crude Gains  Crude for July delivery rose as much as 73 cents to $101.47
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  today and was at $101.31 at 11:31 a.m. Singapore time.
The contract climbed $1.65 yesterday to $100.74, the highest
settlement since May 31. Prices are up 36 percent the past year.  “It’s a bit surprising because the Saudis usually get
their way,” said  Mike Wittner , the New York-based head of oil-
market research at Societe Generale SA. “There were very
diverse opinions going into the meeting and even looking at the
fundamentals, there were different signals,” he said in an
interview yesterday. Wittner said before the meeting there was a
65 percent chance OPEC would decide to raise production.  A Bloomberg survey of 30 analysts conducted from May 24 to
May 31 showed that 27 believed the group would probably leave
its output quotas unchanged.  “This is crude bullish as there is certainly no consensus
within the group and OPEC is not ready to act united,” said
 Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in  London  who
correctly forecast the group wouldn’t change its target. “The
market remains undersupplied.”  ‘Disconcerting’ Outcome  OPEC’s spare production capacity is poised to dwindle,
 David Greely , a New York-based analyst at  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , said yesterday in an interview. Rising global demand for
oil will exhaust the group’s surplus capacity next year, said
Goldman, which forecast on May 24 that  Brent crude  will rise to
$120 within six months and $130 within a year. Brent climbed as
much as 0.3 percent to $118.23 in London today after settling
0.9 percent higher at $117.85 yesterday.  While the lack of coordination appears “disconcerting, the
fact remains that the vast majority of OPEC spare capacity
remains in Saudi Arabia,” Greely said. “Consequently, it still
remains a question of Saudi’s willingness and ability to raise
production to keep pace with world oil demand growth.”  Saudi Arabia Stretched  It will be a “stretch” for Saudi Arabia on its own to add
the 1.9 million barrels of daily oil out needed to meet the
30.87 million barrels of daily demand OPEC forecasts in the
third quarter,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  analysts including New York-
based Lawrence Eagles wrote yesterday. The bank reiterated its
forecast that oil will reach $130 a barrel in 2011.  Crude has gained 11 percent this year, boosting revenue for
producers while raising concern that price gains will stunt
economic growth and stoke inflation.  The U.S. Labor Department said on June 3 that employers
added 54,000 workers to payrolls in May, the fewest in eight
months. The  International Energy Agency  trimmed its 2011
forecast for oil demand last month for the first time, after
saying on April 12 that prices above $100 a barrel are starting
to hurt the global economy.  Iran, the group’s second-biggest producer, has historically
taken a harder line on prices than its regional rival Saudi
Arabia. Constrained by economic sanctions over its nuclear
program, it’s pumping at close to full capacity.  New Powerhouse  “ Iran  has replaced Saudi Arabia as the powerhouse in
OPEC,” said  Olivier Jakob , managing director of Petromatrix
GmbH, a Zug, Switzerland-based research group.  Besides Iran and Venezuela, OPEC members opposing a higher
production ceiling were Libya, Angola, Ecuador and Algeria.
Venezuela was concerned crude prices would tumble if OPEC
increased quotas, the country’s oil minister said in an
interview with state television.  “There was a proposal to raise output by between 1.5
million barrels a day and 2 million,” Rafael Ramirez said.
“We, given the uncertainty in the market, thought that could
cause the price of oil to collapse.”  They were “vehemently against increasing production,”
Saudi Arabia’s Naimi said, adding that he and his group tried
for several hours to persuade the six of the need for more oil.
“In 16 years, I’ve never seen an obstinate position,” he said.  Mohammad Aliabadi, the acting Iranian oil minister and
current OPEC president, speaking through a translator, described
the meeting as “polite and cordial.”  “I don’t know why he called it the worst meeting,”
Aliabadi said.  IEA Disappointment  Iran refused to sign on to the agreement that OPEC reached
at a 1999 meeting, said Leo Drollas, chief economist at the
Centre for Global Energy Studies in London. The last time OPEC
adjourned a meeting with no agreement was in the early 1980s,
when  Iraq  and Iran were at war.  The IEA expressed “disappointment” over OPEC’s failure to
reach an agreement. “Of course what really matters is actual
supply, which should move in line with seasonally rising demand,
and we urge key producers to respond accordingly,” the Paris-
based agency said in a statement.  Demand for OPEC crude will rise by 2.1 million barrels a
day in the third quarter from the group’s total output in April
of 28.8 million barrels a day, Naimi said.  “Saudi Arabia is committed to supplying the needs of the
market regardless of the disagreement,” he said.  Emergency Capacity  OPEC announced its biggest-ever output cuts in December
2008 amid a collapse in global demand, capping production at
24.845 million barrels a day for all members except Iraq, which
is exempt from the quota system. The limit has remained
unchanged since then.  The 11 nations with production quotas pumped 26.15 million
barrels a day in April, according to the IEA. That leaves the
group with about 4.5 million barrels a day of spare capacity,
most of it in Saudi Arabia, to be tapped in an emergency.  The 50-year-old organization met as fighting in Libya shut
off most of the output from Africa’s third-largest producer. A
rebellion against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  has cut
shipments from the North African country by almost 90 percent,
according to Bloomberg estimates.  Qaddafi’s OPEC representative, who arrived late to the
meeting in Vienna, said Libya will fulfill existing agreements
with oil companies within the country.  OPEC delegates weren’t able to resolve how to deal with the
Libyan outage, according to  Barclays Plc (BARC)  analysts led by  Paul Horsnell  in London.  “While OPEC remains a force for the protection of any
potential price downside, it now appears to be out of play for
the rest of the year as a constraint on the upside to prices,”
Barclays said. “We continue to see price risks being skewed
heavily to the upside.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  