-- 
Morgan Stanley Weighs Job Cuts as Barclays Capital Reduces Its Sales Posts

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-06-08T10:27:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/morgan-stanley-weighs-job-cuts-as-barclays-reduces-sales-posts.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , owner of the world’s
largest brokerage, may eliminate more jobs at its wealth
management unit as  Barclays Capital  cuts positions in its
equities division worldwide.  “As we continue to take actions to improve broker
efficiency we may reduce our broker headcount below previously
announced targets,” Morgan Stanley Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat said at the Deutsche Bank Global Financial Services
Conference yesterday. The unit, which had about 17,800 employees
at the end of March, was previously aiming to reduce that figure
to as little as 17,500, according to a spokesman for the bank.
The firm cut 300 brokers at the division in the first quarter.  Barclays Capital, the investment-banking unit of London-
based  Barclays Plc (BARC) , cut as many as 50 jobs in its equities
division worldwide, a person familiar with the matter said. The
reductions affected employees in sales, trading and research,
said the person, who requested anonymity because the plan isn’t
public. The move, part of a mid-year performance assessment,
wasn’t made because of declining revenue, the person said.  Barclays, the U.K.’s third-largest bank by assets, said in
April that pretax profit at its investment bank fell 33 percent
as revenue from fixed-income, currencies and commodities trading
tumbled. Equities-trading revenue at global investment banks,
including Barclays Capital, will drop an average of 12 percent
in the second quarter, compared with the previous three-month
period, according to an estimate yesterday by Kian Abouhossein,
a  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  analyst.  Shrinking Revenue  Net revenue at the six biggest U.S. banks -- Bank of
America Corp., JPMorgan, Citigroup Inc.,  Wells Fargo & Co .,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley -- fell 13.3 percent
in the first quarter from a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Global investment banking revenue may
decline by about 16 percent in the second quarter because of a
slowdown in fixed-income, currencies and commodities trading,
Abouhossein said in a report to clients yesterday.  Morgan Stanley bought a controlling stake in a joint
venture with Citigroup’s Smith Barney unit in 2009, giving it a
retail brokerage with $1.67 trillion in client assets as of Dec.
31. The bank said in March it will proceed with plans to buy the
rest of the joint venture after the  Federal Reserve ’s review of
its capital plan.  Brandon Ashcraft, a spokesman at Barclays Capital in  New
York , declined to comment.  Dealbreaker.com  reported the job cuts
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 