-- 
Hovnanian Slides to Two-Year Low After Wider Loss Than Analyst Estimated

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-06-08T20:25:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/hovnanian-slides-to-two-year-low-after-wider-loss-than-analyst-estimated.html
Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV) , the
largest homebuilder in  New Jersey , fell the most in a year in
New York trading after reporting a wider second-quarter loss
than analysts estimated.  Hovnanian’s net loss for the three months ended April 30
widened to $72.7 million, or 69 cents a share, from $28.6
million, or 36 cents, a year earlier, the  Red Bank , New Jersey-
based company said in a  statement  yesterday after the close of
trading. Analysts predicted a loss of 55 cents a share, the
average of nine estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  The results “were well short of our (and the Street’s)
expectations on most fronts as the housing market remains under
pressure,” Vincent Foley and Cedric Morris, analysts with
Barclays Capital Inc. in  New York , wrote in a research note
yesterday.  The stock fell 12 percent to $2.07 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange Composite trading, the biggest decline since June
2010. It has lost 49 percent this year, the worst performance in
Bloomberg’s U.S. homebuilder index.  U.S. homebuilders are struggling with weak demand as
unemployment hovers around 9 percent and foreclosures drag down
prices of previously owned houses. Hovnanian, which specializes
in communities of single-family homes, said the spring selling
season was “disappointing.”  Falling Orders, Margins  Second-quarter revenue declined to $255.1 million from
$318.6 million a year earlier. Net orders tumbled 17 percent to
1,166 homes. The company’s homebuilding gross margin, a measure
of profitability, dropped to 14.8 percent from 17.3 percent.  The company is likely to have revenue of $265 million to
$295 million in the third quarter, and $320 million to $350
million in the fourth quarter, Chief Executive Officer  Ara Hovnanian  said during a conference call with analysts today.  Bondholders are losing confidence in Hovnanian as the
company uses its cash to buy land in the housing slump. The
homebuilder’s cash and near-cash holdings fell to $353.7 million
in the quarter from $783.1 million two years earlier.  The cost to protect the company’s debt with credit-default
swaps ended yesterday at the highest level since Sept. 23,
according to CMA, which is owned by the CME Group Inc. Contracts
protecting against the company’s default for five years
increased 2.1 percentage points today to 37.6 percent upfront as
of 12:28 p.m. in New York, according to the data provider.
That’s in addition to 5 percent a year, meaning it would cost
$3.76 million initially and $500,000 annually to protect $10
million of Hovnanian debt.  Hedge Against Losses  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. The contracts, which investors use to hedge against losses
on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decline
as investor confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates.  “We understand the market’s concern with liquidity,”
Chief Financial Officer  Larry Sorsby  said during today’s call.
“It is something we are monitoring closely. However, our
internal financial models give us the confidence that we have
sufficient capital to grow our way back to profitability, even
in a flat, non-recovering market.”  The company expects narrower losses in the third and fourth
quarters, CEO Hovnanian said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  