-- 
Pakistan Aid Depends on Security Cooperation, Panetta Says

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-06-08T00:41:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/pakistan-aid-depends-on-security-cooperation-panetta-says.html
An accelerated counterterrorism
campaign in the border region between Afghanistan and Pakistan
is "vital" for the U.S. to defeat al-Qaeda there and prevent its
return, according to CIA Director Leon Panetta, who is nominated
to succeed Defense Secretary  Robert Gates .  Any decisions on future U.S. security assistance “will be
informed” by Pakistan’s response to the “concrete steps” the
U.S. has set for counterterrorism cooperation, Panetta said in a
79-page set of answers to questions from the Senate Armed
Services Committee in advance of his confirmation hearing
scheduled for June 9.  Last month, the U.S. found and killed al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden who was hiding in a compound in the city of
Abbottabad, 30 miles (50 kilometers) north of the capital,
Islamabad.  The U.S. "train-advise-equip" programs with Pakistani
military and paramilitary forces have been important in
eliminating terrorist sanctuaries and disrupting the al-Qaeda
network, Panetta said.  “It is vital, however, that  Pakistan  live up to its end of
the bargain, cooperating more fully in counterterrorism matters
and ceasing to provide sanctuary to Afghan Taliban and other
insurgent groups,” he said.  Pakistan continues to lack the necessary military and
civilian capacities to “hold” and “build” in areas along the
border region that have been cleared of al-Qaeda forces, Panetta
said.  Seeking Results  “If confirmed, I will work the Congress to ensure that the
support we provide is yielding the results we seek,” he said.  Since 2009, Pakistan has undertaken counterinsurgency
operations against extremist organizations in the northwest,
including in Swat, South Waziristan, Mohmand and Bajaur “with
varying levels of success,” said Panetta.  “Pakistan’s level of commitment is reflected in the
enormous casualties it has suffered as a result of terrorism in
the last few years, including more than 11,000 military
personnel killed or wounded in action and more than 30,000
civilian causalities in recent years,” he said.  Panetta said that while, bin Laden’s death is a
"significant blow" to al-Qaeda, the core group and its offshoots
“remain a vary dangerous threat” in the region and to the U.S.
homeland.  “There is a risk that decentralized affiliates may pose an
increased threat to the United States,” he said  Panetta said that President Barack Obama’s  Afghanistan 
strategy is “sound” and the U.S. has made “the progress
necessary to give the President meaningful options for his
decision,” on how many U.S. forces to withdraw beginning in
July.  The military gains in Afghanistan are “helping to create
the conditions for reconciliation,” between Afghanistan’s
government and the Taliban insurgents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  