-- 
Panetta Sees ‘Difficult Choices’ Ahead to Curtail U.S. Defense Spending

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-06-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/panetta-sees-difficult-choices-ahead-on-u-s-defense-spending.html
Leon Panetta, President  Barack Obama ’s nominee to succeed retiring Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , says he expects that “difficult choices will have to be
made” to rein in defense spending and reduce the federal
deficit.  “If confirmed, I will work to make disciplined decisions
in ways that minimize impacts on our national security,”
Panetta, who is now director of the Central Intelligence Agency,
said in a 79-page set of answers to questions from the Senate
Armed Services Committee in advance of his confirmation hearing,
scheduled for tomorrow.  “But it must be understood that a smaller budget means
difficult choices will have to be made,” he said.  Gates has said that to save money for new weapons, it may
be necessary to cut personnel costs -- including troop pay,
benefits and the size of the force.  Panetta told the committee that if confirmed, he would play
a “large role” in the comprehensive review begun by Gates to
assess options for reducing defense spending by $400 billion
through 2023 beyond the $78 billion already planned through
2016. The review, ordered by Obama, will be a “strategy-driven
approach” that is “essential to ensuring we preserve a superb
defense even under fiscal pressure,” he said.  “I will not hesitate to provide my views on the potential
consequences of proposed future changes in the DoD’s budget,’ he
said.  Many of Panetta’s answers repeat administration policy or
don’t provide specifics. Still, they will be parsed by defense
industry and strategy analysts for insights into his priorities,
especially on weapons programs.  F-35 Fighter  For example, when asked for his views on the Pentagon’s
largest program, the  F-35 Joint Strike Fighter , Panetta said he
supports the current focus on reducing the aircraft’s estimated
$1 trillion in ‘‘sustainment costs.”  “I believe it is important that we transition to a fifth-
generation tactical fighter capability as soon as practical,”
he said of the  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  program. “Overall, I
believe we should maintain sufficient inventory” of current,
so-called legacy aircraft “while we field the F-35,” he said.  “The major issue with Panetta is whether he is being
brought in to be the ‘hatchet man’” to make deep cuts, said
Robert Stallard, a defense analyst with  RBC Capital Markets .  “There is a real debate going on as to whether we’ll see a
continuation of the Gates approach to defense or a change in
direction that emphasizes budget-cutting,” Stallard said.  Budget Deficits  Asked about the national security implications of the U.S.
budget deficits during a Feb. 10 hearing of the House Permanent
Select Committee on Intelligence, Panetta said “there’s no
question that represents a threat that we have to pay attention
to.”  Panetta, 72, a California Democrat who served in the U.S.
House of Representatives from 1977 to 1993 and then as budget
director and White House chief of staff under President  Bill Clinton , has been CIA director since February 2009. Gates, the
lone holdover in Obama’s cabinet from the George W. Bush
administration, is retiring June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  