-- 
Papandreou Plan to Increase Tourism Threatened by Nationwide Greek Strikes

-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-06-09T18:28:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/papandreou-s-tourism-gains-threatened-by-fresh-wave-of-strikes.html
Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s
attempts to draw tourists to Greece may be undermined by union
calls for strikes against new government austerity measures.  Unions representing more than 3 million workers are
planning walkouts this month as Papandreou shapes 78 billion
euros ($114 billion) of budget cuts and state asset sales to
meet European Union bailout requirements.  About 5,000 protesters, including power, postal and bank
workers, marched through central Athens today carrying banners,
one of which had a map of Greece with a red “Not For Sale”
sign on it. Members of the PAME labor union took over the
Finance Ministry offices in Athens on June 3 and 50,000 people
protested two days later. A general strike is set for June 15.  “If we weren’t committed to a conference, we might not
have come,” said Norm Hartwell, a 70-year old dermatologist
from Christchurch,  New Zealand , as he dragged his suitcase
through central Athens during a five-hour subway walkout this
week. “We were thinking there may be disruptions.”  The demonstrations come as Papandreou’s government is
cutting the  sales tax  for hotels to make pricing more
competitive, keeping tourist sites such as the Acropolis open
later at night and marketing Greece on websites such as those of
Facebook Inc.,  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  and Twitter Inc.  Tourism’s Share  “Tourism has a central role in growth,” Papandreou said
in Athens at the annual general meeting of the  Association of
Greek Tourism Enterprises , also known as SETE, May 4. “Maybe it
sounds obvious, but all these years it wasn’t. Together we are
proceeding with a revolution of the obvious.”  Tourism accounts for about 16 percent of Greece’s gross
domestic product, according to the London-based  World Travel and
Tourism Council . That’s four times as much as for  Germany  and
twice the European Union  average . The  Greek economy  will shrink
3.5 percent this year, after a 4.5 percent contraction last
year, according to a European Commission forecast.  “As long as social tensions remain high, confidence is low
and so tourism could be negatively affected from the strikes,”
 Giada Giani , an economist at Citigroup Inc in  London , said by
telephone. “The negative impacts are likely to be there.”  Tour operators, airlines and hotel owners do say there is
revived interest in Greek holidays, a year after a wave of
protests and violence deterred visitors. Political turmoil that
started in  Tunisia  and spread to Egypt, Libya and Syria has
helped send tourists back to  Greece .  Not Tunisia  Marie Nury, who visited Greece from Grenoble,  France , said
she had considered going to Morocco or Tunisia but chose not to.  “People will come to Greece now,” she said in the Athens
Backpacker Hotel. “This year the portrayal is that the crisis
is a political problem and not one of the Greek people.”  People now are less tolerant of strikes and protests, said
Loukas Tsoukalis, an economist at Athens University and head of
research institute ELIAMEP.  “If you have been waiting for months for tourism to help
you be in a better than your previous sorry state of affairs and
10 or 100 people are threatening that, then there may be
reactions,” he said. “I think society is much less willing to
tolerate that sort of thing this year.”  Tourism and Culture Minister Pavlos Yeroulanos said he was
trying to lure Germans and Britons as well as draw visitors from
new markets such as  Israel , the Balkans, Ukraine and  Russia .  Russian Visas  The government is working on simpler visa procedures for
tourists from Ukraine and Russia and promoting Greece as “the
safe destination it always was,” Yeroulanos said in an e-mailed
response to questions on April 12.  “There is now a Russian market for the first time in the
Cyclades,” said Kostas Dimitrokalis, who owns  five hotels  on
the island of Santorini. He said his reservations are up as much
as 11 percent in the first months of the year.  Tourism fell last year after three people died during a
general strike on May 5. Anarchists rampaged through the city
and set fire to buildings during protests before the 110
billion-euro EU-led bailout was agreed to on May 2, 2010.  “It took years for  Athens  to get a good reputation with
the 2004  Olympic Games ,” Giannis Retsos, president of the
 Hellenic Hotel Federation , said April 28.  “Last year showed
how this reputation can be destroyed in one day through one
incident.”  Greece spent about 10 billion euros to build a metro,
airport and tramway and to upgrade infrastructure in preparation
for the Olympic Games.  Fewer Germans  Income from international tourism dropped 8 percent in
2010, according to SETE. German visitors, who made up 14 percent
of total visitors in 2010, declined 14 percent to 2.4 million
from the year earlier.  Unemployment was at a record 16 percent in March. Island
regions, whose populations rely on tourist revenue, are
outpacing the mainland. The jobless rate was 25 percent in the
Ionian islands in the  Adriatic Sea , which include Corfu and
Zakinthos. The tourist sector employs one in five Greeks. The
Ionian was considered part of the Adriatic though now is it
viewed as a separate body of water, according to the online
version of  Encyclopedia Britannica  Inc.  Papandreou in March pleaded with lawmakers in parliament to
help keep the peace by not supporting any  strike action .  “We need this year, if we really want to change the course
of the country and see growth, to have the requisite calm for
the tourism season to have positive results,” the premier said.
“We can’t, like last year, portray an image of the country
being torn to pieces by strikes and shut ports.”  Acropolis Hours  Government initiatives to draw visitors include a cut in
the value-added  tax rate  for hotel stays to 6.5 percent from 11
percent as of Jan. 1. The government on May 19 extended museum
hours: The  Acropolis site , one of the most visited spots, is
open year-round until 7 p.m daily, from 3 p.m. previously.  Early bookings show arrivals will rise about 10 percent
this year and revenue by as much as 7 percent, the hotel
federation’s Retsos said. Revenue from foreign visitors rose 4.7
percent in the first three months of the year, Alpha Bank SA
said May 26, after a 2 percent decline in the same period last
year. “Significant” increases were seen for April.  Piraeus Port Authority (PPA)  SA, the operator of Greece’s biggest
harbor and the main link to the islands, slashed vessel docking
fees in March and raised its forecast for passenger cruise ship
arrivals this year. It was operating normally today, with all
staff working, a coast guard spokesman said.  Port Protest  Dockworkers held a four-hour work stoppage on May 31 to
oppose Papandreou’s plan to sell a stake in the port. The sale
is part of 50 billion-euros in state asset sales to secure
additional funding from the EU and IMF and help pay down the
EU’s biggest debt load. Greece’s debt is expected to peak at
153.3 percent of GDP next year, according to an EU-IMF report.  Assets for sale include the two biggest ports, the Athens
International Airport and stakes in the country’s phone,
gambling and power companies. Papandreou has also announced 28
billion euros of spending cuts and revenue raising measures for
the next five years as tax evasion undermines deficit-cutting.  “We weren’t affected at all” by any strikes or protests
during a four-day cruise of Greek islands, dermatologist
Hartwell said. In Athens, “the demonstration in the square was
very peaceful and not threatening at all.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 Acullen8@bloomberg.net  