-- 
Oscar-Winner Haggis Leads Protest to Free Filmmaker

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-06-10T18:01:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/paul-haggis-trudie-styler-lead-protest-for-convicted-iranian-filmmaker.html
(Corrects subject of book in penultimate paragraph in story
datelined June 8.)  Oscar-winning screenwriter Paul Haggis and human-rights activist Trudie Styler delivered
petitions this morning to the Iranian Mission to the  United
Nations , demanding freedom for acclaimed filmmaker Jafar Panahi
and his artistic collaborator, Mohammad Rasoulof.  They are both under house arrest while appealing six-year
prison sentences for making “propaganda against the state.”
They’re also banned from making films in Iran for 20 years.  The petitions contained about 21,000 signatures, including
those of  Martin Scorsese , Mia Farrow, Susan Sarandon,  Patrick Stewart  and  Harvey Weinstein .  The rally, organized by the human-rights organization
 Amnesty International , drew a small crowd of mainly reporters
and photographers to the Iranian Mission in Manhattan. The
protest grew contentious at one point as security personnel from
the building tried to clear the lobby and summoned police.  “The treatment of Jafar Pahani and Mohammad Rasoulof is an
outrageous human-rights injustice,” Haggis said. “We stand
here today to demand that the government of  Iran  overturn their
sentences.”  Iranian-born actress Nazanin Boniadi said she was
heartbroken to “see this aggressive and brutal rights clampdown
in my home country. The charges against Pahani and Rasoulof are
ludicrous. The sentences are inhumane.”  Delivering Petitions  Haggis, Styler (wife of singer Sting), Boniadi and Larry
Cox, executive director of  Amnesty International ’s U.S. chapter,
entered the building to deliver the petitions. Minutes later, a
protocol officer from the mission came down and told Haggis that
he was authorized only to accept the cover letter.  As Haggis insisted on delivering two large boxes of
petitions, police started clearing the lobby of protesters.
Eventually, the mission official was instructed to accept the
boxes containing the petitions, and Haggis emerged from the
building to cheers.  In 2010, prior to his trial, Panahi spent three months in
Tehran’s Evin prison. His films include “Badkonake Sefid”
(“White Balloon”) and “Dayareh” (“Circle”).  Evin is also the site of “Then They Came for Me,” about
the imprisonment and torture of Iranian journalist and filmmaker
Maziar Bahari. The book, written by Bahari and Aimee Molloy, has
just been published by  Random House .  The area outside the Iranian Mission was temporarily
renamed “Azadi” (“Freedom”) Square by the protesters for the
event.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 