-- 
Payroll-Tax Break Said to Be Discussed by Obama Aides Amid Slowing Economy

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-06-09T17:43:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/payroll-tax-break-said-to-be-discussed-by-obama-aides-amid-slowing-economy.html
President  Barack Obama ’s advisers
have discussed seeking a temporary cut in the payroll taxes
businesses pay on wages as they debate ways to spur hiring amid
signs that the recovery is slowing, according to people familiar
with the matter.  The idea, which is in preliminary stages of discussion, is
among several being talked about at the White House as the
economy holds center stage for the administration and Congress,
the people said on condition of anonymity to discuss internal
deliberations. The  unemployment rate  in May rose to 9.1 percent,
the highest level this year.  The talks reflect the political constraints the White House
is operating under with the Republican majority in the U.S.
House pushing to cut federal spending. A hiring stimulus based
on a tax break for employers may appeal to Republican lawmakers,
many of whom have called for measures to help businesses.  White House press secretary Jay Carney today refused to
detail discussions within the administration.  “Obviously there are a lot of ideas that get bandied
about,” Carney said at the daily White House briefing. “This
is an idea that’s been around for a long time.”  Hatch Suggestions  Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , the top Republican on the
Senate Finance Committee, said today he would consider
supporting an employer payroll tax cut. He also said that
approving free-trade agreements and easing wage restrictions on
government construction projects would be better ways to
encourage hiring.  “I’ll probably be for it, but there are so many things you
could do that would be far superior in creating jobs,” Hatch
said in an interview in  Washington .  A temporary break on employer payroll taxes would echo a
centerpiece of the deal Obama and congressional Republicans
reached in December 2010 to extend tax cuts enacted during the
presidency of  George W. Bush . That package included a two-
percentage-point reduction in employee contributions to the
 payroll tax  during 2011. The tax, which is divided into portions
paid by employers and employees, finances Social Security and
Medicare.  ‘Up and Running’  Obama said at the White House yesterday that he is
interested in exploring with lawmakers from both parties
extending some of the stimulus measures that were part of the
tax-cut package “to make sure that we get this recovery up and
running in a robust way.”  The people familiar with the discussions wouldn’t
characterize how seriously the idea is being considered or
whether it has moved beyond initial discussions. Other ideas
that have been discussed in the past -- and rejected, according
to some administration officials -- include a temporary holiday
on corporate taxes on repatriated foreign earnings.  Payrolls grew at the slowest pace in eight months in May,
Labor Department figures released on June 3 showed. The 54,000
rise in jobs followed a 232,000 gain in April and was below the
165,000 median increase forecast by economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  The jobs numbers followed a series of economic statistics
suggesting that the economy is decelerating. Manufacturing grew
at its slowest pace in more than in a year in May, according to
Institute for Supply Management data released last week.
 Consumer spending , which accounts for 70 percent of the economy,
rose less than forecast in April as households felt the pinch of
grocery and energy costs, a Commerce Department report showed.  ‘Frustratingly Slow’  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  described the
economic recovery as “uneven” and “frustratingly slow” in a
speech in Atlanta yesterday. “Until we see a sustained period
of stronger  job creation , we cannot consider the recovery to be
truly established,” he said.  In an analysis released shortly after the December 2010
tax-cut deal, Deutsche Bank Securities economists  Joseph LaVorgna ,  Carl Riccadonna  and Brett Ryan estimated that the
employee payroll tax cut would boost gross domestic product this
year by an additional 0.7 percentage points.  Targeting the employer side of the payroll tax could both
attract Republican support and spur job growth, said  Christina Romer , who was Obama’s first chairman of the White House’s
 Council of Economic Advisers .  “A cut in the employer side of the payroll tax could
absolutely help accelerate job creation,” Romer, an economist
at the  University of California  at Berkeley, said in an
interview. “In addition to the usual beneficial effect on
demand, this tax cut would make hiring less expensive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  