-- 
Peru’s President-Elect Humala Understands Need for Stability, Aide Says

-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-06-08T15:13:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/peru-s-president-elect-humala-understands-need-for-stability-aide-says.html
Peru ’s President-elect Ollanta Humala
understands the importance of economic and fiscal stability to
the country and needs a few more days to choose his Cabinet,
economic policy aide Oscar Dancourt said.  “I think he knows very well the importance of maintaining
macroeconomic stability, monetary and fiscal policy,” said
Dancourt, who Bank of America-Merrill Lynch reported may be a
candidate for central bank chief, in an interview. "He knows 
well the importance of the need to have an autonomous central 
bank."  Humala, 48, edged out his rival, Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori, in the presidential election June 5, sparking a sell-
off of Peru’s stocks, bonds and currency the following day.
Investors are betting his choice of ministers will reveal
whether he has moved away from his past support of Venezuelan
President  Hugo Chavez ’s policies and pledges to boost government
control of the economy.  Finance Minister Ismael Benavides yesterday urged Humala to
send “clear signals” to the market about his economic policies
to reassure investors and offered to accompany members of
Humala’s team to meet overseas investors before the government’s
term ends July 28.  “It’s not necessary,” Dancourt, central bank chief under
former President  Alejandro Toledo , said when asked about the 
offer. “What we need now is to concentrate on the transfer from 
one government to the next, work on the different areas of 
national policy and not only on the economic sector.”  ‘Interventionist’ Stance  Humala said in an interview with  CNN ’s Spanish-language
channel yesterday that he will meet with current bank chief
Julio Velarde to decide whether he will keep his job. Bank of
America said in its report yesterday that Dancourt poses more 
risk due to his “interventionist” stance in favor of capital 
controls and taxing inflows. The report said Humala’s Cabinet 
may include former deputy finance minister Kurt Burneo or 
economic consultant Raul Salazar as finance minister.  The nation’s stocks, bonds, and currency rose today for a
second day as investors took advantage of the sell-off. The Lima
General Index climbed 3 percent to 20,468.56 at 11:03 a.m. New
York time after plunging 12 percent on June 6.  The sol was little changed at 2.7853 per dollar.  Dancourt dismissed Benavides’s pledge to boost liquidity in
the financial system if there is a “substantial” withdrawal of
funds and said the finance minister should have been more
“prudent” in calming the market ahead of the election. He
criticized the government’s proposal to raise the limit on
private pension funds’ investment overseas to 50 percent from 30
percent shouldn’t be approved by congress.  “I don’t think the bill was prudent,” he said. “You have
to be careful about the effect these sort of things have on the
 exchange rate  and the economy. I don’t think it should be
approved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helen Murphy in Lima at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  