-- 
Philippine Bonds Gain on Speculation of Rate-Increase Pause

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-06-08T08:53:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/philippine-bonds-gain-on-speculation-of-rate-increase-pause.html
Philippine local-currency bonds
gained on speculation the central bank will refrain from raising
 interest rates  after inflation accelerated less than economists
predicted last month. The peso weakened.  The yield on the three-year securities dropped to the
lowest in a month as Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima told
lawmakers today the government has a program to eventually win
an investment-grade  credit rating . Consumer prices increased 4.5
percent from a year earlier, after a revised 4.3 percent gain in
April, official data showed yesterday. The median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 5 percent increase.  “Inflation was way lower than market expectations and if
it’s holding, then there’s room for authorities to pause,” said
Yvette Marquez-Carlos, who helps manage the equivalent of $11
billion at BPI Asset Management in  Manila .  The yield on the 6.25 percent bond due January 2014 fell
eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 4.80 percent as
of 4:51 p.m. in Manila, according to Tradition Financial
Services. That’s the lowest level since May 5. The peso fell 0.2
percent to 43.243 per dollar, according to Tullett Prebon Plc.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas raised its overnight borrowing
rate by a quarter of a percentage point in March and May to 4.5
percent. The next policy meeting will be on June 16.  The  Philippines  is aiming for an upgrade from Moody’s
Investors Service, Purisima said today. Moody’s raised its
outlook on the Philippines’ Ba3 rating in January. The current
rating is three levels below investment grade.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  