-- 
Pimco Australia Says Highest Key Rate Aids Profit on Buying Bonds Abroad

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-06-08T02:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/pimco-australia-says-highest-key-rate-aids-profit-on-buying-bonds-abroad.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
Australian unit is using the developed world’s highest  interest
rates  to reap profits by buying bonds offshore and hedging them
back into the local currency.  Pimco, which manages about A$32 billion ($34 billion) of
assets in Australia, favors investing in countries with steeper
yield curves or buying Australian corporate debt sold abroad at
more attractive prices, said  Robert Mead , Sydney-based head of
 portfolio management , in an interview. Buying debt abroad and
hedging the purchases offers yields of about 9 percent, he said.  Australia’s central bank has raised interest rates by 175
basis points to 4.75 percent since October 2009 to contain
inflation amid a record mining-investment boom. The Aussie
dollar climbed 29 percent against the greenback in the past 12
months as the yield gap between Australian and U.S. 10-year
government notes widened to 227 basis points. Hedging allows
Pimco to avoid currency volatility and benefit from the higher
interest rates in  Australia .  Newport Beach , California-based
Pimco manages $1.3 trillion worldwide.  “From a domestic investor’s perspective, taking advantage
of that real yield offered in the Australian bond market is a
no-brainer,” Mead said in an interview yesterday. “Buying
Australian corporates offshore and hedging back has been an
attractive yield-generating position.”  Australian  government bonds  have handed investors a 5
percent return in the past 12 months, while corporate notes have
returned 7.9 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes.  Flat Yield Curve  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens held the
overnight cash rate target at 4.75 percent yesterday for a sixth
straight meeting and acknowledged the subdued outlook for
industries other than mining and energy.  The gap between yields on two-year and 10-year Australian
sovereign bonds has fallen 15.5 basis points, or 0.155
percentage point, to 41.5 basis points this quarter, compared to
a 259 basis-point spread between U.S. Treasuries of the same
maturities and 139 basis points on German bunds, Bloomberg data
show.  “One issue to consider in the Aussie  bond market  is that
the government curve is so flat,” Mead said. “As a total
return generator, there’s not as much opportunity. You have to
do something different, for example buy credit or buy offshore
bonds.”  Benchmark Rates  The  Federal Reserve  has held its benchmark rate near zero
since December 2008, while the  European Central Bank  lifted its
borrowing rate to 1.25 percent in April, its first move in
almost three years.  Australian bond investors have priced in 19 basis points of
increases over the next year, a Credit Suisse Group AG index
based on swaps trading shows. The ECB may lift rates 81 basis
points while borrowing costs in the U.S. are likely to rise 18
basis points in the same period, according to separate Credit
Suisse indexes.  “If you look at the euro or U.S. dollar curves, the view
we’ve taken is that the market has been pricing in more
tightening than the central banks would be able to push through
the system,” Mead said. “You can earn  capital gains  if you
take the view that rates will come down the curve much more
steeply.”  Pimco likes debt sold by infrastructure-related commodity
producers and efficient energy companies, and holds a greater
percentage of financial company bonds than is contained in
benchmark indexes, Mead said.  N.Z. Bonds  It’s also been buying New Zealand bonds to profit from a
steeper yield curve than Australia’s amid swelling government
deficits and record low benchmark rates after the nation’s
deadliest earthquake in 80 years.  “The countries have very similar fundamental dynamics in
terms of their economies,” Mead said. “Seeing as you’ve got
one curve that’s flat, and one that’s steep, New Zealand bonds
have represented an attractive investment opportunity.”  The difference in yields between three- and 10-year
government debt was at 189 basis points in  New Zealand , down
from a record high of 229 reached on April 8, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg since August 1992. The similar spread in
Australia has narrowed to 36 basis points from a 2011 high of 53
reached March 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  