-- 
Poland to Pause Interest-Rate Increases After 100 Basis Points This Year

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-06-09T13:23:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/poland-to-pause-interest-rate-increases-after-100-basis-points-this-year.html
Poland ’s central bank said it will
pause after raising interest rates four times this year, arguing
that a percentage point of tightening may be enough to slow
inflation to its target.  The Narodowy Bank Polski raised the seven-day interest rate
by a quarter-point to 4.5 percent yesterday and central bankers
“plan to wait before making any more policy moves,” Governor
 Marek Belka  told a news conference in Warsaw after the decision.  Policy makers in Warsaw accelerated rate increases to
prevent rising food and fuel prices from boosting inflation. The
10-member rate-setting panel said it will leave the benchmark
unchanged to see whether this year’s tightening from record-low
rates will alleviate the pressures that boosted consumer-price
growth to the fastest in 31 months.  “The council also indicated quite clearly that it is
approaching the end of the monetary tightening cycle,” said
 Maja Goettig , chief economist at Bank BPH SA, in an e-mail. The
post-decision statement, together with Belka’s comments,
“clearly indicate a pause in interest rate hikes, at least
until September.”  At today’s auction of the zero-coupon government bond
maturing in 2013, the yield fell to 4.84 percent, the lowest
since an auction on Dec. 1 last year and down from 5.11 percent
at a May 12 sale.  The zloty weakened to 3.9550 per euro from 3.9499 late
yesterday.  Door ‘Remains Open’  Poland’s benchmark interest rate now matches the latest
consumer-price index figure after Poland’s inflation accelerated
to 4.5 percent in April from 4.3 percent in March, exceeding the
central bank’s 2.5 percent target for a seventh month. This
compares with the euro zone’s 1.25 percent, after the European
Central Bank today left its key rate unchanged.  The central bank is “still in the tightening cycle,”
Belka said, and the Monetary Policy Council didn’t rule out
further increases if the prospects of inflation slowing to the
target worsens. The benchmark rate will probably rise to 4.75
percent before the end of the year, according to Goettig at BPH.  “Doors to further hikes remain open,” said Piotr Bujak,
an economist at Bank Zachodni WBK, in a note to clients. “In
our view, persisting inflation above 4 percent in the remainder
of the year will prompt the MPC to deliver one more hike of 25
basis points in the autumn.”  ‘Significant Convergence’  Two-year interest-rate swaps, which investors use to
protect themselves against the risk of changes in borrowing
costs, rose to 5.103 percent at 2:32 p.m. in Warsaw after
falling 8 basis points in reaction to yesterday’s comments by
Belka. A basis point is the equivalent of 0.01 percentage point.  “In general, there is a significant convergence in the
council and the market’s expectation” about future monetary
policy, Belka told reporters.  The spread between two-year and 10-year rate swaps will
widen to 55 basis points from the current 26 basis points after
the central bank’s comments, Salomon Guillaume, an emerging-
market strategist at Societe Generale SA, wrote in an e-mailed
note today.  Hungary was the first of the European Union’s eastern
members to begin raising interest rates. The central bank
increased its benchmark rate in November, December and January
by a total of 0.75 percentage-point to 6 percent. Inflation
accelerated to 4.7 percent in April, the fastest in 10 months.  Czech policy makers have kept their main rate unchanged at
0.75 percent for the past year. The country’s inflation rate
fell to 1.6 percent in April, the lowest in 10 months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net ;
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  