-- 
Poland Raises Benchmark Rate for Fourth Time to Curb Prices, Signals Pause

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-06-08T15:20:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/polish-central-bank-lifts-benchmark-rate-for-fourth-time-to-curb-inflation.html
Poland ’s central bank increased its
benchmark interest rate for the fourth time this year as
consumer prices rise faster than policy makers’ target and
signaled it will pause before further tightening.  The Narodowy Bank Polski raised the seven-day interest rate
by a quarter point to 4.5 percent today, matching the
expectations of 26 of 33 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Seven
analysts predicted the rate would remain unchanged.  Central bankers in Warsaw accelerated rate increases to
prevent rising food and fuel prices from boosting inflation. The
10-member rate panel will wait with the next move to see if the
100 basis points of tightening this year will stem inflationary
pressures that may fuel wage demands.  "We plan to wait before making any more policy moves,"
Governor  Marek Belka  said at a press conference in Warsaw
following the decision. "After four rate increases, it seems the
time has come to see what effect they have on the Polish
economy."  The zloty fell 0.3 percent to 3.9498 per euro at 4:46 p.m.
Bonds rallied after Belka’s comment, pushing the yield on the
notes maturing in April 2016 down 8 basis points to 5.42
percent, the lowest since November 23.  Matching Inflation  The Polish benchmark, which compares with the  European
Central Bank ’s 1.25 percent rate, now matches the latest
consumer-price index. Inflation accelerated to 4.5 percent in
April from 4.3 percent in March, exceeding the central bank’s
2.5 percent target for a seventh month.  The central bank’s "significant" rate increases this year
should be sufficient to bring inflation back to the target in
the medium term, the council said in a statement. Rates may rise
again if the inflation outlook deteriorates, it said.  "If we don’t see high wage growth, the probability of
further significant increases in interest rates will diminish or
vanish," Stanislaw Gomulka, chief economist of employers’ group
the Business Centre Club, said in an e-mailed note.  The pace of rate increases was justified by the
acceleration in  core inflation , said Anna Zielinska-Glebocka, a
member of the Monetary Policy Council. Core inflation, which
strips out volatile fuel and food prices, quickened to 2.1
percent in April, the highest rate since February 2010.  Higher Forecasts  Companies and households raised their forecasts for
inflation over the next 12 months to 4.3 percent in May from 4
percent the month before, according to a central bank survey
published May 31.  The economy expanded 4.4 percent from a year earlier in the
first quarter, close to the fastest pace since 2008, as private
consumption exceeded analysts’ expectations and investment
recovered. Corporate wages increased 5.9 percent from a year
earlier in April, the most since December 2009, and retail sales
rose 18.6 percent, the most since the start of 2008.  Policy makers in Poland, the biggest economy among the
European Union’s eastern members, raised rates for the first
time in 2 1/2 years in January.  Hungary was the first of the EU’s eastern members to begin
raising interest rates. The central bank increased its benchmark
rate in November, December and January by a total of 0.75
percentage-point to 6 percent. Inflation accelerated to 4.7
percent in April, the fastest in 10 months.  Czech policy makers have kept their main rate unchanged at
0.75 percent for the past year. The country’s inflation rate
fell to 1.6 percent in April, the lowest in 10 months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net ;
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  