-- 
Sterling Weakens After Moody’s Says U.K. Aaa Credit Rating May Be at Risk

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-06-08T16:07:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/pound-weakens-after-moody-s-says-u-k-s-aaa-credit-rating-might-be-at-risk.html
The pound weakened against the dollar
and the yen after Moody’s Investors Service said the U.K.’s Aaa
credit rating may be at risk should the government miss its
debt-reduction targets amid slowing growth.  Sterling fell to the weakest in more than three weeks
versus the yen even as Moody’s said the nation’s sovereign
ranking is “stable.” The European Commission said yesterday
that the U.K. government faces a “challenge” to implement its
planned budget-deficit reduction program and some of its growth
forecasts are too optimistic. Data today showed U.K. shop-price
inflation decelerated in May.  “The vast majority of market participants are not
currently expecting the rating agencies to act,” said  Stephen Gallo , head of market analysis at Schneider Foreign Exchange in
London. “There should be a higher  risk premium  in sterling as a
result of this. The rating agencies should certainly take a more
decisive decision on the U.K.’s rating.”  The pound weakened 0.5 percent to $1.6365 as of 4:29 p.m.
in London and fell 0.8 percent to 130.70 yen after reaching
130.49, the lowest since May 16. It appreciated 0.3 percent
against the euro to 89.03 pence, snapping a six-day decline.  No `Plan B'  “Our central scenario is that the U.K. rating remains Aaa
and the outlook is stable,” Francesco Meucci, a Moody’s
spokesman, said in an interview from Paris. “However, slower
growth combined with weaker-than-expected fiscal consolidation
efforts could cause the U.K.’s debt metrics to deteriorate to a
point where we would reconsider our stance.”  Sterling has weakened 3.8 percent against the euro this
year amid signs that the government’s austerity drive is damping
growth and will compel the  Bank of England  to keep interest
rates on hold. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said
two days ago he rejected calls for a “Plan B” to scale back
his deficit-reduction plan. The  International Monetary Fund  said
it endorsed the government’s strategy, while cautioning that the
U.K. faces risks to growth and employment.  Standard & Poor’s  affirmed the U.K.’s AAA ranking in
October, having previously warned it may lower the nation’s
grade, after Osborne presented his plans for spending cuts.  Interest-Rate Futures  Today’s  British Retail Consortium  report showed prices
charged by retailers rose 2.3 percent from a year ago, the
weakest pace this year, after advancing 2.5 percent in April.  U.K. bonds rose, pushing two-year yields to the lowest this
year, before central bank policy makers announce their latest
interest-rate decision tomorrow. Ten-year yields were four basis
points lower at 3.29 percent, while two-year yields dropped
three basis points to 0.86 percent. All 55 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg expect the Bank of England to keep the main rate
unchanged at a record low of 0.5 percent.  Short-sterling futures yields for June 2012 fell three
basis points to 1.25 percent as investors curbed bets for higher
borrowing costs. Traders are speculating that the Bank of
England will raise  interest rates  by 25 basis points in April,
forward contracts on the sterling overnight interbank average
show, according to data from Tullett Prebon Plc. As recently as
February, investors bet the rate would be lifted last month.  Breakeven Rates  “Any rate rise would completely spoil the government’s
chances of achieving its fiscal goals,” said  John Hydeskov ,
chief analyst at Danske Bank A/S in London. Sterling may weaken
to more than 90 pence per euro, he said.  The 10-year breakeven rate, a measure of inflation
expectations, increased one basis point to 314 basis points
after investors bid for 2.3 times the amount of index-linked
gilts sold at an auction yesterday and Iberdrola SA’s Scottish
Power unit said it will raise domestic gas and power prices from
August. It earlier advanced to 317 basis points, the highest
level since May 5.  “The auction came very strong and we’re getting some
follow-through there,” said Giles Gale, an interest-rate
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London . There
was also stronger demand for inflation-linked bonds “on the
back of gas and electricity price increases,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  