-- 
PSI Is Target for Electric Equipment Makers on Smart Grid Boom

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-06-08T14:10:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/psi-is-target-for-electric-equipment-makers-on-smart-grid-boom.html
PSI AG of  Germany  has become a
potential takeover target for electrical equipment makers
because of booming demand for software to control energy flows,
Chief Executive Officer Harald Schrimpf said.  “Almost all of the large equipment makers have spoken to
us, in particular those that have made acquisitions in this
market recently,” Schrimpf said in an interview in Frankfurt on
June 7, declining to provide names. “We concluded that for the
next two to three years, it’s best for our customers and
shareholders to remain an independent company,” Schrimpf said.  Rising power prices and efforts to promote renewable energy
and electric vehicles have increased demand for “smart grid”
systems, to save electricity by using technologies such as
computerized meters to manage electricity use. German power for
next-year delivery is near the highest price in two years as
 Europe ’s biggest economy accelerates its nuclear exit.  “We will see booming demand for our solutions,” Schrimpf
said. The company aims to reach record sales of about 170
million euros ($248 million) this year, and plans to increase
revenue to 250 million euros by 2015, adding about 600
employees, he said. Schrimpf aims to add market share by
spending 15 million euros to 20 million euros on acquisitions
this year and a similar amount next year. “We look at places
the larger companies don’t -- in the less transparent markets,”
he said.  Industry Acquisitions  Schneider Electric SA (SU) , the world’s biggest maker of low-
and medium-voltage equipment, on June 1 said it agreed to buy
 Spain ’s  Telvent GIT SA (TLVT)  for about 1.4 billion euros to double its
software development capacity. Telvent competes with PSI in
software to control medium-voltage power grids, together with
privately held OSI Software Inc. of San Leandro, California, and
Nanjing Automation Research Institute, an affiliate of China
State Grid Corp.  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s largest maker of power-transmission
gear, on May 9 said it agreed to acquire private equity owned
Mincom to add to its offering of industrial software catering to
clients in the energy and mining industries. ABB’s $1 billion
acquisition of Ventyx, which makes software for monitoring smart
grids, last year marked its expansion in industrial software.  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s largest engineering company, predicted
in September 2009 that it could secure 7 billion euros in new
orders for smart grid products and services by 2014.  PSI management and employees hold a combined 23.6 percent
of the company’s shares, and RWE owns 17.8 percent. “As far as
we know, RWE’s stake is not for sale,” Schrimpf said.  PSI shares have advanced 67 percent in a year, compared
with an 11 percent gain for the nine-stock MSCI Europe Software
and Services Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in  Frankfurt  at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 