-- 
Q-Cells Open to Takeover Offer, Not Holding Talks, Chief Executive Says

-- B y   G e l u   S u l u g i u c   a n d   T o d d   W h i t e
-- 
2011-06-08T15:58:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/q-cells-open-to-takeover-offer-not-holding-talks-chief-executive-says.html
Q-Cells SE (QCE) , the German solar-cell
manufacturer that’s fallen 56 percent in Frankfurt trading over
the past year, is open to a takeover bid, Chief Executive
Officer Nedim Cen said.  “If we find the right partner or the right partner finds
us, I would not be opposed” to selling the company, Cen said
today in an interview at a solar-power conference in Munich. He
said the Thalheim-based company is not currently holding talks.  Q-Cells is among a group of European and U.S. solar-gear
makers that have faced increased competition from Chinese
competitors including JA Solar Holdings Co. and Suntech Power
Holdings Co., the world’s largest makers of cells that are used
in photovoltaic panels to convert sunlight into power.  The shares pared a 3.5 percent loss today to close little
changed, down 0.2 percent to 1.69 euros. The stock is the
fourth-worst performer in the last 12 months on the Bloomberg
Global Leaders Solar Index, which rose 12 percent in the period.  Cen said he was neutral on the negative sentiment that
investors are showing toward the stock.  “If people want to go long or want to go short, that’s
what the capital markets are all about,” he said. For the
photovoltaic-products market to be successful, “consolidation
can be a means.”  About 51 percent of Q-Cells outstanding shares have been
borrowed by investors for selling short, the most among the 37
members of the Bloomberg solar index, according to information
from Data Explorers on Bloomberg. The index average is 12
percent. Investors sell borrowed stock in hopes of making a
profit when they buy it back later at a lower price.  Cash Flow , Bonds  The German company reported a negative cash flow of 180
million euros ($262 million) in the first quarter, almost double
the cash flow loss from the year-earlier period.  The CEO forecast in a May 12 conference call with analysts
that cash flow will stabilize, then significantly increase
toward the end of 2011, depending on how demand picks up for its
products.  Cen declined to comment on how long the company can run on
the cash at hand without borrowing more. The spread on the
company’s 5.75 percent bonds has risen 733 basis points to 1,841
points over a comparable German benchmark government bond during
the last month, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gelu Sulugiuc in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net ;
Todd White in Madrid at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Todd White at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net  