-- 
Qaddafi May Be Charged With Systematic Rape, Prosecutor Says

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-06-08T19:17:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/qaddafi-may-be-charged-with-systematic-rape-prosecutor-says.html
The chief prosecutor of the
 International Criminal Court  said he’s gathering evidence that
may lead to charging  Libya  leader Muammar Qaddafi with ordering
the systematic rape of women considered enemies of his regime.  “This is new,” Argentine lawyer  Luis Moreno-Ocampo  told
reporters today at the  United Nations  in  New York . “We are
getting information that Qaddafi himself decided to rape. This
was never a pattern he used to control the population.”  Moreno-Ocampo said he would likely request that rape be
added to the charges included in the arrest warrant he presented
to the Hague-based court’s pre-trial chamber on May 16. He said
he would wait to file the additional charge until the judges
rule on his call for the arrest of Qaddafi, his son, Saif al- Islam Qaddafi, and Abdullah el-Sanussi, a Libyan security
official.  Months of clashes between Qaddafi’s troops and opposition
forces in Libya have killed thousands of people and helped push
up  oil prices .  Moreno-Ocampo said he has evidence of “widespread” rapes
numbering more than 100 in at least one area, and of the
government distributing drugs that enhance sexual performance.  He said the charge of rape wasn’t included in his initial
arrest warrant because of a lack of evidence tracing the policy
to Qaddafi.  “He decided to punish using rapes, which in the Libya
tradition is really something very bad, beyond the limits,”
Moreno-Ocampo said.  Moreno-Ocampo was authorized by the UN Security Council to
carry out the investigation in a resolution adopted unanimously
on Feb. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  