-- 
RBS’s Hester Says Bank Firebreaks Will Increase Systemic Risk

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-06-08T14:14:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/rbs-s-hester-says-bank-firebreaks-will-increase-systemic-risk.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) 
Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  said creating firebreaks
between lenders’ retail and investment banking units will
increase systemic risk.  “Creating a ring fence increases some of the systemic risk
and decreases the ability of banks to withstand the risk and has
significant cost to it,” Hester told the House of Commons
Treasury committee in Westminster today. “The  credit rating
agencies  tell us it’s likely to weaken the strength of banks.”  The government-sponsored Independent Commission on Banking
recommended in April that the U.K.’s biggest banks should boost
capital, implement plans for an orderly bankruptcy and erect
fire breaks around their consumer units to boost the stability
of the financial system.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  Chairman  Douglas Flint  said he understood
why fire breaks were required in the aftermath of the 2008
banking crisis.  “While I would prefer there wasn’t one, given where we’ve
come from, the principal responsibility of policy makers should
be to make sure the supply of credit to the real economy is
uninterrupted by volatile conditions,” Flint told the
committee.  The annual cost of the ring fencing will be
“significantly” lower than 12 billion pounds ($20 billion),
the commission said. RBS said in April the plan will boost costs
for clients and investors while Barclays Plc said returns and
dividends will be affected.  John Vickers , 52, the Oxford University academic chairing
the commission, was asked by the government last year to make
recommendations to boost stability and competition in the
British banking industry. The ICB will hand the final report to
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne and Business
Secretary Vince Cable in September.  The commission will hold hearings with the main U.K. banks
this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  