-- 
Treasuries Advance as Bernanke’s Comments Boost Demand at 10-Year Auction

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-06-08T21:12:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/treasuries-advance-as-bernanke-s-comments-boost-demand-at-10-year-auction.html
Treasuries rose, pushing yields to
the lowest level since December, as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s comments yesterday that record monetary stimulus
is still needed bolstered demand at today’s $21 billion auction
of 10-year notes.  Yields on the benchmark debt fell before the central bank’s
 Beige Book  survey showed the economy “generally” grew while
slowing in some areas. The extra yield investors demand to hold
30-year bonds instead of two-year debt was almost the highest
since March on speculation  interest rates  will stay low.  “A lot of people have been forced into the market,” said
 Thomas Tucci , head of U.S. government bond trading at  RBC
Capital Markets  in New York. “It’s a liquidity event where
people had to cover shorts. The participation in the auction was
solid. The economic news continues to remain weak.” As one of
the 20 primary dealers, the unit of Royal Bank of Canada is
obliged to participate in U.S. debt offerings.  Yields on the 10-year notes dropped six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 2.94 percent at 5 p.m. in  New York ,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The 3.125 percent security
maturing in May 2021 increased 15/32, or $4.69 per $1,000 face
amount, to 101 19/32.  The 10-year note yields touched 2.93 percent, the lowest
level since Dec. 7. Two-year note yields slid two basis points
to 0.38 percent after touching 0.37 percent, the lowest level
since Nov. 8. A gain of more than one point in the 30-year bond
pushed yields down seven basis points to 4.19 percent.  Auction Demand  At today’s 10-year note auction, the securities drew a
yield of 2.967 percent, versus the average forecast of 2.961
percent in a Bloomberg News survey of seven primary dealers.  The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of securities offered, was 3.23,
compared with an average of 3.09 at the past 10 auctions.  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, bought 50.6 percent of the notes at today’s
auction, compared with 47.2 percent at the May sale. The average
for the past 10 auctions is 51.1 percent.  Direct bidders, non-primary dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 8.3 percent,
compared with the 10-auction average of 7.8 percent.  “It was a pretty fair auction that came near the highs of
the day,” said Justin Lederer, an interest-rate strategist in
New York at  Cantor Fitzgerald , a primary dealer. “With the
future uncertain, investors are grabbing as much yield as
possible, even if we aren’t at amazing yield levels. The market
is playing it safe right now.”  Debt Returns  Ten-year notes have returned 4.3 percent this year,
compared with a 2.8 percent gain for Treasuries overall,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The U.S. sold $32 billion of three-year debt yesterday at a
yield of 0.765 percent, drawing the highest demand from indirect
bidders since January. The government will sell $13 billion in
30-year securities tomorrow in the last of this week’s $66
billion of note and bond sales.  Treasuries rose earlier after Bernanke said yesterday at an
Atlanta conference that record monetary stimulus is still needed
to boost a “frustratingly slow” recovery, reiterating that an
acceleration in inflation is likely to prove temporary.  “The economy is still producing at levels well below its
potential; consequently, accommodative monetary policies are
still needed,” Bernanke said. At the same time, the Fed “will
take whatever actions are necessary to keep inflation well
controlled,” he said.  Bernanke on Growth  Bernanke said growth is likely to pick up in the second
half of the year as fuel prices recede and disruptions of parts
supplies dissipate with factories in  Japan  recovering from the
March earthquake and tsunami.  Reports from the Fed’s district banks “indicated that
economic activity generally continued to expand since the last
report, though a few districts indicated some deceleration,”
the central bank said today in its Beige Book survey.  Manufacturing “continued to expand in most parts of the
country,” while slowing in some areas.  Consumer spending  was
“mixed,” the report said, while the job market improved
“gradually across most of the nation.”  The difference in yield between 2- and 30-year debt was
3.80 percentage points. The spread increased yesterday to 3.85
percentage points, the widest since March, on the prospect of
low interest rates.  Futures contracts showed the likelihood of an increase in
the fed funds target by the March 2012 meeting fell to 22
percent, from 38 percent odds a month ago. The target rate for
overnight lending between banks has been zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008.  The Fed purchased $6.4 billion of debt maturing from July
2015 to May 2016 today under its $600 billion second round of
quantitative easing. The program, also known as QE2, expires
this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  