-- 
Red Sox Defeat Yankees 6-4 in Quest to Take Sole American League East Lead

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-06-08T05:21:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/red-sox-beat-yankees-6-4-in-new-york-to-close-on-american-league-east-lead.html
The Boston  Red Sox  defeated the New
York Yankees 6-4 to open a three-game series that will decide
the leader in Major League Baseball’s American League East
division.  The Yankees and the Red Sox hold the top two places in the
five-team AL East with 33-25 and 34-26 records respectively.  The Red Sox, who opened the season with six straight losses,
got their fourth win in a row with the victory last night at
Yankee Stadium. New York began a 10-game homestand with its
fourth loss in 10 games.  Jacoby Ellsbury hit a home run and Adrian Gonzalez had a
run-scoring triple and scored on Kevin Youkilis’s sacrifice fly
to give the Red Sox a 3-0 lead in the first inning before
 Robinson Cano ’s run-scoring single made it 3-1.  Dustin Pedroia drove in a run with a double in the second
for the Red Sox and David Ortiz hit a two-run home run in the
fifth, his 14th of the season, for a 6-1 Boston lead.  A  Nick Swisher  double in the fifth drove in  Jorge Posada 
and Russell Martin to make it 6-3 before Posada singled to score
 Brett Gardner  in the ninth.  Jon Lester allowed eight hits and three runs and struck out
five in six innings to improve his record to 8-2 for the season.  Jonathan Papelbon, pitching while he appeals his three-game
suspension for making contact with an umpire on June 4, earned
his 12th save this season and 200th for his career by pitching
the ninth inning.  Short Stint  New York replaced  Freddy Garcia  (4-5) after he surrendered
four hits and four runs in 1 2/3 innings.  “I can’t get anybody out, and I didn’t have the chance to
make adjustments,” Garcia said of his brief stint on the mound.  Yankees shortstop  Derek Jeter  had two hits to move within
12 of 3,000.  Posada replaced  Mark Teixeira , who left the game in the
bottom of the first after he was hit in the right knee by a
Lester pitch. The team said he sustained a deep knee bruise.  “I’ve never seen him show that much pain before,”
Yankees manager Joe Girardi told reporters. “He’s tough. You
know, he’s played with a broken toe, he’s played with a lot of
ailments, but he was in a lot of pain, and it was scary.”  The series continues tonight and concludes tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  