-- 
Republican Leader Says Medicare Plan to Be Political ‘Plus’

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-06-08T16:24:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/republican-leader-says-medicare-plan-will-be-political-plus-.html
Republican National Committee 
Chairman Reince Priebus said his party will turn the Medicare
issue into a “plus” in the 2012 campaigns, even after losing a
traditionally Republican seat in a New York special election
last month.  “The fact that the Republicans are tackling the very
difficult issue of Medicare and trying to find ways to save the
program is going to be a plus,” he said at a Bloomberg
Breakfast today in Washington.  Democrats have hammered Republicans for endorsing a
proposal to privatize Medicare as part of a budget plan approved
in April by almost all House Republicans. The issue helped
Democrat Kathy Hochul win a May 24 special election in a
historically Republican western New York House district.  Priebus predicted that voters will eventually embrace his
party’s willingness to address the growing cost of the health-
care program for the elderly. The  House Republicans ’ plan would
replace the traditional Medicare system with subsidies for
purchasing private health insurance. The changes would affect
people who turn 65 in 2022.  “Americans understand and agree that Medicare is a promise
that the government on its current course cannot keep and we
have to do something about it,” he said.  Anthony Weiner  Priebus also blasted Democrats for not pushing
Representative Anthony Weiner into resigning, after the seven-
term New York congressman on June 6 admitted sending
inappropriate online photos and messages to several women.
Yesterday, House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California
asked the House Ethics Committee to investigate whether his
communications violated House conduct rules.  “Do we really need an ethics committee investigation to
determine if this guy’s a creep or not?” Priebus said. Pelosi
and Democratic leaders should tell Weiner that “he should hit
the bricks,” said Priebus.  The party chairman attacked President  Barack Obama ’s
economic policies, saying the struggling economy will boost
Republican chances in 2012.  “President Obama is not going to win this election with
the economy in the ditch,” he said. “For our party, it
provides an enormous opportunity to defeat him.”  The Labor Department reported last week that payrolls grew
by a less-than-projected 54,000 in May -- the smallest gain in
eight months. The  unemployment rate  rose to 9.1 percent, the
highest this year.  Soft Patch  The jobs report was the latest economic indicator
suggesting the nation’s recovery from the worst recession since
the 1930s has hit a soft patch with the presidential election 17
months away.  The presidential race will be fought mainly over economic
issues, including job growth and voter concern about the federal
deficit and  government spending , Priebus said.  “People are going to vote with their pocketbooks,” he
said.  Republicans seeking the nomination to challenge Obama
include former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , former
Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty , former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas and former U.S.
Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania. Herman Cain, former chief
executive officer of Godfather’s Pizza Inc., and former New
Mexico Governor Gary Johnson also declared their candidacies.  Other potential candidates include Minnesota
Representatives Michele Bachmann, former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, and former U.S. ambassador to  China  and Utah governor  Jon Huntsman .  ‘Galvanizing’ Field  Priebus called the field “galvanizing” and said he
expects it to be “set completely” by Labor Day, Sept. 5.  During the hour-long breakfast session, Priebus said he is
working to reduce the $25 million Republican National Committee
debt he inherited when he became party chairman in January. The
debt is now below $18.8 million, he said, with $5 million in
cash on hand.  He stressed the national party’s importance even though
independent groups can raise campaign money in secret and at
faster rates.  “You cannot defeat Barack Obama without a functional
Republican National Committee,” he said.  The committee’s most important role, he said, is to
coordinate get-out-the-vote efforts with the party’s nominee,
something independents are prohibited from doing.  “I happen to believe in the ground war,” he said. “The
Republican National Committee is the army on the ground.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in  Washington  at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  