-- 
Return of Mercenaries May Destabilize Liberia Before Election, Ecowas Says

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-06-08T07:09:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/return-of-mercenaries-may-destabilize-liberia-before-election-ecowas-says.html
The return of Liberian mercenaries
from  Ivory Coast  may destabilize the nation before elections in
October, the  Economic Community of West African States , or
Ecowas, said.  “This is a very dangerous situation,” Ecowas Commission
President James Gbeho said in an interview in  London  yesterday.
“A lot of young people went to fight in Cote d’Ivoire recently
and not only have they gone back, they have gone back into
Liberia with their weapons.”  The mercenaries entered Ivory Coast following the country’s
disputed November vote, when incumbent Laurent Gbagbo refused to
cede power to the internationally recognized winner Alassane Ouattara. At least 220 civilians were killed by the retreating
fighters, Ivorian Prime Minister  Guillaume Soro  said on May 15.  They are returning to a country that is rebuilding its
economy following civil wars between 1989 and 2003 in which an
estimated 250,000 people died and most of the country’s
infrastructure was destroyed. Incumbent Ellen Johnson Sirleaf
was elected in 2005 as  Africa ’s first female president when the
West African nation held its postwar vote.  The United Nations is concerned that the movement of
weapons and fighters around West Africa following the end of the
crisis in Ivory Coast and conflict in Libya may cause
instability before elections in Liberia, Guinea and Senegal,
which are due over the next 12 months, Said Djinnit, the
organization’s special envoy for the region, said May 26.  The 15-member Ecowas, founded in 1975, is looking to
provide funding for Ivory Coast’s recovery, Gbeho said.  “In areas such as humanitarian assistance, particularly in
tending to internally displaced persons and also those who have
had to flee to neighboring countries like Liberia and  Ghana ,
that’s the area that we’re going to take very seriously.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Kay  in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 