-- 
Trichet May Play ECB Rate Card as Germany Risks Split on New Greek Rescue

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-06-09T07:32:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/trichet-may-play-ecb-rate-card-as-germany-risks-split-on-new-greek-rescue.html
European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet may today play the interest-rate card and signal
to European governments that the euro region’s debt crisis is
theirs to solve.  Two days after German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
opened a rift with the ECB over how to fix Greece’s debt crisis,
Trichet is likely to signal that the ECB is ready to raise
 interest rates  for a second time in three months in July, a
Bloomberg News survey showed. The central bank today will keep
its benchmark at 1.25 percent, a separate survey showed.  The latest phase of the Greek crisis risks exacerbating
tensions between the ECB and the German government. While
Schaeuble said in a letter published June 7 that bondholders
should be stung as part of a second Greek bailout package, the
ECB argues that such a step could spark a new wave of financial
turmoil and insists it’s ready to press on with raising rates.  “If there’s a hardening of attitudes between  Germany  and
the ECB, the ECB are just going to dig in their heels and insist
on their independence,” said  James Nixon , chief European
economist at Societe Generale SA in London. “They’re going to
tell European governments it’s their problem and they can clear
up the mess.”  Lehman ‘Catastrophe’  Trichet, whose eight-year term expires at the end of
October, will hold a press conference at 2:30 p.m. in Frankfurt.
The central bank will also publish its latest economic forecasts
for this year and next.  The yield on German 10-year bonds was little changed at
3.06 percent as of 9:25 a.m. in Frankfurt. Greece’s two-year
bonds rose, pushing the yield down 40 basis points to 23.53
percent.  The ECB and the German government are at loggerheads over
how much pain private-sector creditors should bear in any pan-
European deal that would tackle  Greece ’s debt load.  In the letter to Trichet and other finance officials,
Schaeuble said maturities on Greek bonds should be extended
seven years to give the debt-wracked nation time to overhaul its
economy. Any agreement on aid at a ministers’ meeting on June 20
“has to include a clear mandate” to “initiate the process of
involving holders of Greek bonds,” he wrote.  For its part, the ECB has opposed anything beyond a
voluntary rollover of debt to avoid what European Union Economic
and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  has called a
“Lehman Brothers catastrophe.” A swap offering investors terms
that are “worse” than those of existing securities would
constitute a coercive or distressed exchange, and be considered
a default,  Fitch Ratings  said earlier this week.  ECB ‘Frustrated’  While Trichet has said the so-called Vienna initiative
approach, which would see bondholders commit to purchase new
bonds after their existing holdings had matured, was something
“the ECB would consider appropriate,” Schaeuble called for a
solution going beyond that.  “The ECB is frustrated that there are these irrational
politicians that they can’t control,” said Jens Sondergaard, an
economist at Nomura International in London. Greece’s “doomsday
scenario is that they default, they don’t get the payments and
all bets are off.”  A year after approving a 110 billion-euro ($160 billion)
bailout for Greece, European leaders and the  International
Monetary Fund  are working on a second funding package. Schaeuble
told lawmakers yesterday that Greece’s financing needs amount to
90 billion euros through 2014, according to two people who
attended his briefing.  The EU and the IMF can’t make a pending bailout payment to
Greece until a plan to meet the country’s financing needs for
2012 is worked out, according to a report published yesterday.
The country’s financing costs remain “prohibitive,” making it
impossible for Greece to return to markets next year, it said.  Greek Downgrade  With governments struggling to contain the region’s debt
crisis, the ECB may keep providing lenders with unlimited
liquidity. Banks in Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  have been
reliant on central bank funding after lending dried up.  “You cannot separate monetary policy and the problems of
the periphery completely, but you can to a certain extent,”
said  Holger Schmieding , Chief Economist at Joh. Berenberg,
Gossler & Co. in  London . “It’s likely they’ll indicate a rate
hike and keep most of the other liquidity measures in place.”  Moody’s on June 1 downgraded Greece to Caa1 from B1,
putting it on the same level as Cuba after policy makers
considered asking investors to reinvest in new Greek debt when
existing bonds mature. Greece said the move “overlooks” its
commitment to meeting its 2011 fiscal target as well as an
“accelerated” state-asset sale program.  Investors Unconvinced  Investors remain unconvinced. Greek 10-year bonds yield
almost 16 percent and the country is the most expensive in the
world to insure against default, at about 1,500 basis points,
according to CMA prices. The yield investors demand to hold
Greek 10-year bonds instead of benchmark German bunds widened
for the first day in four yesterday.  The ECB is “desperate to avoid the debt crisis becoming a
euro crisis,” said  Steven Barrow , an economist at Standard Bank
Plc in London. “The best way to do this is to prove its
independence and raise rates. Do I think this is the best way?
No. Do I know the ECB well enough to know that they will do it?
Yes.”  Inflation Concern  ECB policy makers have signaled concern about oil-driven
inflation feeding into wage demands and sparking so-called
second-round effects. Italy’s  Mario Draghi , the nominee to take
take over from Trichet, said on May 31 that there’s now a
“greater need to proceed with monetary policy normalization.”  Trichet today may pave the way for a rate increase in July
by calling for “strong vigilance” on price pressures. The ECB
in April raised borrowing costs from a record low for the first
time in almost three years to fight inflation threats.  While euro-region inflation weakened to 2.7 percent in May
from 2.8 percent in the previous month after energy costs
retreated, the central bank will probably increase its full-year
estimate to 2.7 percent from 2.3 percent projected in March and
also raise its growth estimate, said  Silvio Peruzzo , an
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London.  “Assuming that the Greek problem doesn’t become systemic,
the ECB will press on” with raising rates, said  Ken Wattret ,
chief euro-region economist at BNP Paribas SA in London.
“Greece is only a risk scenario for the ECB.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in  Frankfurt  
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  