-- 
Romanian Junk Rating Affirmed at S&P on Growth Outlook, Debt

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-06-08T11:44:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/romanian-junk-rating-affirmed-at-s-p-on-growth-outlook-debt-1-.html
Romania had its  credit rating 
maintained by  Standard & Poor’s  at BB+, one level below
investment grade, with a stable outlook, due to the country’s
economic growth potential and moderate government debt.  The Balkan nation’s government is likely to continue
trimming its budget deficit while a precautionary loan accord
with the  International Monetary Fund  and the European Union will
minimize fiscal-slippage risks ahead of a general election in
2012, S&P credit analyst Marko Mrsnik said in a statement today.  “If the government maintains the momentum of its current
structural reforms, building a sustained track record of fiscal
prudence and maintaining stability in the financial sector, we
could raise the ratings,” S&P said in the statement.  Romania , which has taken two international loans from the
IMF and the EU since 2009, will probably see an economic
expansion this year, after its output shrank for two years,
helped by western European demand for the country’s
manufacturing products, including Dacia SA cars. The country is
getting ready to tap international markets this week for the
first time in more than a year to raise funds for its budget
deficit, as it stops drawing money from international creditors.  Leu Gains  Romania’s leu, the third-best performer this year among
more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg,
fell 0.4 percent to 4.1720 per euro as of 1:15 p.m., while the
Bucharest Stock Exchange’s benchmark BET index dropped 0.4
percent to 5540,32.  The Balkan nation took a 5 billion-euro ($7.3 billion)
precautionary loan from the IMF this year to reassure investors
it will maintain fiscal discipline ahead of elections next year
and narrow its  budget deficit  to below 3 percent of gross
domestic product in 2012.  “The 2011 deficit appears broadly attainable with
continued adjustments in social welfare spending and public
sector rationalization,” the S&P statement said.
“Strengthening economic growth from 2012, if combined with
spending prudence, should help to further reduce the deficit.
However, we do not expect the government to fully meet its
target without supplementary measures, which it may be reluctant
to undertake in an election year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  