-- 
Romania Economy Grew 1.7% in First Quarter as Recovery Continues

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-06-08T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/romania-economy-grew-1-7-in-first-quarter-as-recovery-continues.html
Romania ’s economy expanded more than
initially reported in the first quarter on surging exports
boosted by demand from western  Europe .  Gross domestic product rose 1.7 percent, the first annual
growth in two years, compared with a 0.6 percent decline in the
fourth quarter, the  National Statistics Institute  in Bucharest
said today in an e-mailed statement. The figure was revised from
a preliminary estimate of 1.6 percent on May 13. GDP advanced
0.7 percent from the previous three months, the second quarterly
expansion in a row, revised the 0.6 percent flash estimate.  Romania, which has taken two international loans from the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union since 2009,
will probably see economic output grow 1.5 percent in 2011,
helped by western European demand for the country’s
manufacturing products, including Dacia SA cars, according to
government and IMF forecasts.  “Industry was the sector that posted the biggest growth
rate of 10.1 percent in the quarter, while an improvement of net
exports had a positive effect on GDP,” the institute said in
the statement. “Internal demand dropped an annual 0.5 percent
in the first quarter because of a 3 percent decline in total
final consumption and lower  government spending .”  The Balkan nation took a 5 billion-euro ($7.3 billion)
precautionary loan from the IMF this year as it seeks to
reassure investors it will maintain fiscal discipline ahead of
elections in 2012. The government has raised taxes and cut
public wages and benefits to narrow the  budget deficit  to within
IMF-agreed targets.  Romanian industrial output growth slowed for the second
time in six months in April because of low domestic demand,
posting an annual increase of 6.3 percent after 7.4 percent in
March, the statistics institute said in a separate e-mailed
statement today. Output fell 0.2 percent on the month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  