-- 
Russia to Maintain Import Ban on European Union Vegetables

-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 
2011-06-08T14:41:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/russia-to-maintain-import-ban-on-european-union-vegetables-1-.html
Russia  will maintain a ban on imports
of European Union vegetables because EU authorities failed to
inform counterparts in the country on the source of an E. Coli
outbreak, Agriculture Minister  Yelena Skrynnik  said.  Domestic demand will be met by national production,
Skrynnik said at a meeting today. She also said Russia will
import produce from the former Soviet republics of Ukraine,
Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan, Tajikistan and Kazakhstan as well as
 Turkey , Iran,  Egypt  and  China .  Russia suspended imports of German and Spanish tomatoes,
lettuce and cucumbers on May 30 after an E. Coli outbreak in
 Germany  last month. The ban was extended to all fresh vegetables
from the EU on June 2. At least 2,429 people across  Europe  have
been infected in the outbreak and 23 have died.  The ministry aims to get approval from all relevant
government departments in the next two to three weeks for
federal plans to develop greenhouse farms and improve land, with
the aim of raising vegetable output, Skrynnik said. The ministry
wants to lift the national vegetable crop by 5 million metric
tons to 17 million tons by 2020, according to a statement.  Tomatoes, Cucumbers  The EU accounted for 620,000 tons of vegetable imports into
Russia in 2010, or about 24 percent of all inbound shipments,
Skrynnik said today. Russia got 11 percent of its tomato imports
and 5 percent of its imported cucumbers from the EU last year,
the ministry said on June 3. Vegetable imports totaled 2.6
million tons in 2010, Skrynnik said.  While banning EU vegetables may increase inflation in
Russia, the extent has yet to be estimated, Deputy Minister of
Economic Development Andrey Klepach said today, according to the
Interfax news agency.  Russian vegetable prices are unlikely to rise because
supply has increased with the start of local harvesting of
seasonal produce, Skrynnik said. The national vegetable crop is
set to climb to 13 million tons this year from 12.1 million tons
in 2010, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  