-- 
Russia’s Grain Harvest May Reach 89 Million Tons, Union Says

-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 
2011-06-08T16:13:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/russia-s-grain-harvest-may-reach-89-million-tons-union-says.html
The Russian grain crop may reach 89
million metric tons this year depending on rainfall in the Black
Earth region, according to  Russia ’s Grain Union.  The harvest probably will come to at least 82 million tons,
Vice President Alexander Korbut told Bloomberg by phone today.
The crop may reach 85 million tons or more “in average,” he
said.  “The forecast will depend heavily on the situation in the
Black Earth area,” Korbut said. “There was no rainfall for
quite a long time there, and this creates additional risks.”  Most Russian analysts taking part in a discussion at the
XII International Grain Round in Gelendzhik today were inclined
to estimate the national crop at between 84 million and 90
million tons, Korbut said. The analysts included representatives
of Moscow-based researcher ProZerno and the Institute for
Agricultural Market Studies as well as the union.  “All expressed concerns with lack of rains in the Black
Earth area,” Korbut said. The region contains Russia’s most
fertile lands and accounts for 20 percent of national grain
production.  Michael Shneyderman, chief financial officer of Black Earth
Farming Ltd., told Bloomberg on June 2 the area faces a “50-
50” chance of drought this year. Roman Vilfand, director of the
national weather center, confirmed on June 6 that spring crops
in the Black Earth zone were at risk of drought if heat and lack
of precipitation were to last for 10 more days.  The Black Earth area, running from southwest of Moscow
toward  Ukraine , includes the Kursk, Belgorod, Voronezh, Lipetsk
and Tambov regions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  