-- 
Russia Wheat Exports May Gain If Policies Don’t Scare Buyers

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-06-08T11:18:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/russia-wheat-exports-may-gain-if-policies-don-t-scare-buyers-1-.html
Russia , once the second-biggest
shipper of wheat, may regain its share of the world market if
government policies don’t scare off buyers, said Tetsuhide Mikamo, the director of  Japan ’s Marubeni Research Institute.  Russia may ship 10 million metric tons of wheat in the
marketing year that started on June 1, up from last year’s 4
million tons, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .
The eastern European country said it would lift a ban on
shipments on July 1 as wheat production rebounds after the its
worst drought in a half-century slashed grain output.  The government’s “unpredictability” with regard to
shipment volumes may make world wheat importers look elsewhere
for supplies, Mikamo said in an interview in  London  yesterday.
Implementing grain-export bans reduces confidence in the country
as an exporter, he said. Still, it’s a “seller’s market” so
Russian exports should jump, Mikamo said.  “Continuity is very important for Russia to maintain their
exports,” Mikamo said. “Even if there was a sudden change in
crop such as drought, to maintain a certain volume of grain
exports will give credibility to Russia in the world. In the
current market the seller is stronger than the buyer, so I think
Russia as a seller will expand.”  Wheat futures on the  Chicago  Board of Trade, the world
benchmark, have jumped 70 percent in the past year and corn has
more than doubled, partly because of the Russian grain-export
ban that started on Aug. 15. Russia shipped 18.8 million tons of
the grain in the 2009-2010 marketing year, behind only the U.S.,
International Grains Council data show.  Corn for July delivery in Chicago was little changed at
$7.37 a bushel by 12:13 p.m. London time. Wheat for July
delivery was little changed at $7.3375 a bushel.  U.S. and EU Production  Commitments by grain buyer  Marubeni Corp. (8002) , which runs the
research institute, to purchase wheat last year from Russia were
canceled and grain was bought from other countries, Mikamo said.
The company suffered “just a small loss” monetarily after
shipments were banned, he said.  Exports from Russia this year also might improve as
production in the U.S. and European Union may drop as dry
weather in growing regions curbs yields.  About 34 percent of the U.S. winter-wheat crop was in good
or excellent condition as of June 5, down from 66 percent a year
earlier, USDA data show. French yields have been harmed by the
driest weather in 50 years. Wet weather in the U.S. northern
Plains and parts of  Canada  has delayed seeding of spring wheat.  To contact the reporterS on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  