-- 
Russia RTS Futures Fall, Following S&P Lower on Growth Concerns

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-06-08T21:12:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/russia-rts-futures-fall-following-s-p-lower-on-growth-concerns.html
Russia ’s RTS index futures declined,
signaling shares in Moscow may fall today, as concern that the
global economic recovery is slowing sent global stocks tumbling.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in June
sank 0.2 percent yesterday. Contracts on OAO Rosneft, Russia’s
top oil producer, fell 0.2 percent, while those on OAO Lukoil,
the second-biggest, were little changed. Contracts on OAO
Gazprom, the world’s largest gas producer, fell 0.4 percent.  “There is rising concern on the slowing economic recovery,
especially after some U.S. data came out so much weaker than
expected,”  Paul Biszko , an emerging-market strategist at Royal
Bank of Canada in Toronto, said in a telephone interview.  U.S stocks fell for a sixth consecutive day yesterday, the
longest losing streak since February 2009, after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 7 that the economic
recovery has been “uneven” and “frustratingly slow.” Recent
data showing weakness in the economy, including a rise in the
 unemployment rate  to 9.1 percent in May, has increased the odds
the Fed will hold the benchmark interest rate near zero into
next year.  The 30-stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  advanced 0.1 percent to 1,664.83
in Moscow yesterday. Rosneft added 1.5 percent and Gazprom rose
1.2 percent after oil, Russia’s main export earner, gained. The
dollar-denominated RTS Index added 0.4 percent to 1,911.41.  Stocks extended a worldwide slump yesterday after the  World
Bank  said global gross domestic product may expand 3.2 percent
this year, less than the 3.3 percent forecast in January. German
industrial production unexpectedly declined for the first time
in four months in April, the government said.  S&P Index  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.4 percent in  New
York  yesterday.  The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, fell 0.2 percent yesterday. Lukoil’s
American depositary receipts declined 0.4 percent. Gazprom’s
ADRs rose 0.8 percent.  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, also produces
metals including steel, copper, nickel, palladium and aluminum.
Oil and natural gas make up a quarter of its economic output.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials
rose 0.6 percent. Crude oil for July delivery increased 1.7
percent to settle at $100.74 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  yesterday. Prices are 40 percent higher than a year
ago.  Oil rose after ministers from OPEC, which is responsible
for 40 percent of global oil supply, were unable to reach a
decision on changing production limits that have been in place
since 2009, the group’s Secretary General Abdalla el-Badri said
on June 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  