-- 
Salzburg Lures Dresden, Thielemann After Berlin Quits Festival

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-06-08T12:36:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/salzburg-lures-dresden-thielemann-after-berlin-quits-festival.html
The  Salzburg Easter Festival  said
Christian Thielemann will replace  Simon Rattle  as musical
director, bringing his Staatskapelle Dresden as the resident
orchestra after the Berlin Philharmonic quit in May.  Thielemann, 52, becomes chief conductor of the
Staatskapelle Dresden in 2012 and will take over the Salzburg
Easter Festival from Rattle in 2013. He has also served as an
adviser to the Bayreuth Festival and conducted the Vienna
Philharmonic playing Beethoven symphonies.  The Berlin Philharmonic, whose former chief conductor
Herbert von Karajan founded the festival as a showcase for his
orchestra in 1967, announced last month it would end its
cooperation with Salzburg in favor of a new event in  Baden-Baden 
starting in 2013. Salzburg’s regional government expressed
“incomprehension and disappointment” at the decision.  “The news that the artistic future of the Salzburg Easter
Festival could be secured in such a short time is
extraordinarily important for its international reputation,”
Gabi Burgstaller, the governor of the state of Salzburg, said in
a statement sent by e-mail.  Thielemann, the Staatskapelle Dresden and the  Semperoper 
Dresden will together stage Richard Wagner’s “Parsifal” in
2013, a production that was to have been performed by the Berlin
Philharmonic, the festival said in a statement sent by e-mail.
Michael Schulz will direct.  Other new initiatives include a “Concert for Salzburg”
targeting local residents and young people with tickets
available at low prices, the festival said.  Peter Alward, who was appointed last year as the new
director of the Easter Festival, welcomed the new lineup. He
joined after a fraud scandal that had cost Salzburg as much as
$5 million. His predecessor and a second employee were charged
with misappropriation of public funds.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 