-- 
Saudis Face Opposition to OPEC Quota Increase

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-06-08T11:16:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/saudis-face-opposition-to-possible-opec-increase.html
Any Saudi Arabian effort to push
for an increase in OPEC’s oil-output target is likely to face
resistance from some members, according to  Angola , Africa’s
second-largest producer.  Ecuador, Venezuela and Angola itself said oil markets are
well supplied and that they see no reason to raise production.
The group’s 12 members began meeting today in Vienna at 10:30
a.m. local time to decide on output limits.  “People are talking about an increase,” Angolan Oil
Minister Jose Maria Botelho de Vasconcelos told reporters
yesterday in the Austrian capital. “We have to wait and see. My
feeling is there is no need. The market is supplied at this
time. There are some geopolitical problems.”  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which
pumps 40 percent of the world’s crude, will raise its official
ceiling on output for the first time since September 2007, a
Gulf delegate with knowledge of the matter said yesterday.
 Michael Wittner , the head of oil-market research at Societe
Generale SA in  New York , said yesterday that OPEC is likely to
increase its target by as much as 1.5 million barrels a day.
Morgan Stanley forecast an increase of 1.5 million barrels
starting this summer.  U.S. crude for July delivery dropped as much as 99 cents to
$98.10 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $98.26 at 11:27 a.m. in  London . Prices have
gained 36 percent over the past 12 months.  Analysts Foresee Increase  Venezuela considers $100 a barrel a “fair” price for oil, 
the country’s Energy Minister Rafael Ramirez said in Vienna
before the meeting began.  Venezuela ’s President Hugo Chavez said
yesterday on state television that he sees no need for a
production increase.  Ecuador’s President  Rafael Correa ,  speaking in the
Ecuadorean city of Salinas, said $100 is a “just” price for
crude, according to comments broadcast yesterday on
Venezuelan state television.  Iran , the group’s second-biggest producer after  Saudi
Arabia , has historically taken a hard line on oil prices, and
its OPEC Governor Mohammad Ali Khatibi said on June 6 that his
country would argue against raising output. “There is no need
to increase production” at this time, Khatibi said, according
to the Xinhua news agency yesterday.  Mohammad Aliabadi, Iran’s caretaker oil minister, told
reporters today that his nation would go along with the majority
of members on any decision about output. Iran holds the OPEC
presidency this year.  Libyan Crude Missed  OPEC is meeting as fighting in Libya shuts off most of the
output from  Africa ’s third-largest producer. A rebellion against
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  has cut shipments from the North
African country by almost 90 percent, according to Bloomberg
estimates.  Saudi Arabia, with the bulk of OPEC’s spare production
capacity, is the member best placed to increase output to help
replace lost Libyan supplies and meet growth in demand later
this year, said Bill Farren-Price, the chief executive officer
of Winchester, U.K.-based consultants Petroleum Policy
Intelligence.  “Saudi Arabia is well-positioned to take up a lot of that
extra supply,” he said in Vienna. “However they actually
package it within OPEC, there will be extra barrels in the
second half.”  Saudi Price View  Saudi Oil Minister Ali Al-Naimi said as recently as Feb. 22
that an oil price between $70 and $80 a barrel would be “fair”
for producers and consumers alike. He declined today to talk to
reporters at the OPEC secretariat building.  OPEC last raised production targets in September 2007. The
group announced its biggest-ever supply cuts in December 2008
amid a collapse in demand, capping production at 24.845 million
barrels a day for all members except  Iraq , which is exempt from
the quota system. Members were 69 percent compliant with their
limits in April, OPEC said in its most recent monthly report on
May 12.  OPEC is now producing 2 million barrels a day more than its
official ceiling, the Gulf delegate said, declining to be named
because he isn’t authorized to speak publicly.  The group’s members are Algeria, Angola,  Ecuador , Iran,
Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United
Arab Emirates and Venezuela. Angola is Africa’s second-biggest
producer after Nigeria.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Galal at   ogalal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 