-- 
Saudis Face Opposition to Possible Increase in OPEC Oil Output

-- B y   F r e d   P a l s   a n d   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-06-08T08:58:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/saudis-face-opposition-to-possible-increase-in-opec-oil-output.html
Any effort by Saudi Arabia to push
for an increase in OPEC’s oil output is likely to face
resistance from some members as they meet to review production
levels, according to the Angolan oil minister.  Ecuador , Venezuela and Angola itself said oil markets are
well supplied and that they see no reason to raise production.
The group’s 12 members began meeting today in Vienna at 10:30
a.m. local time.  “People are talking about an increase,” Angolan Oil
Minister Jose Maria Botelho de Vasconcelos told reporters
yesterday in the Austrian capital. “We have to wait and see. My
feeling is there is no need. The market is supplied at this
time. There are some geopolitical problems.”  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which
pumps 40 percent of the world’s crude, will raise its official
ceiling on output for the first time since 2008, a Gulf delegate
with knowledge of the matter said yesterday, declining to be
identified because he isn’t authorized to speak publicly. OPEC
ministers are meeting amid speculation that  Saudi Arabia , the
group’s largest producer, wants to add as much as 1.5 million
barrels a day to global supply to help replace lost Libyan
supplies and meet growth in demand later this year.  U.S. crude for July delivery dropped as much as 80 cents to
$98.29 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange and was at $98.31 at 8:34 a.m. in  London . Prices have
gained 37 percent over the past 12 months.  Analysts Foresee Increase  Michael Wittner , the head of oil-market research at Societe
Generale SA in New York, said yesterday that OPEC is likely to
increase its target by as much as 1.5 million barrels a day.
Morgan Stanley also forecast an increase of 1.5 million barrels,
starting this summer.  Venezuela ’s President Hugo Chavez said he sees no need for
a production increase for now. Chavez, speaking on state
television during a visit to Ecuador, said prices are reaching a
fair level and will keep rising in the next few years.  Ecuador’s President  Rafael Correa  agrees. Correa, speaking
yesterday in the Ecuadorean coastal city of Salinas, said $100 a
barrel is a “just” price for oil, according to comments
broadcast on Venezuelan state television.  Iran, the group’s second-biggest producer, has historically
taken a hard line on  oil prices , and its OPEC Governor Mohammad Ali Khatibi said on June 6 that his country would argue against
raising output. “There is no need to increase production” at
this time, Khatibi said, according to the Xinhua news agency
yesterday.  Libyan Crude Missed  OPEC is meeting as fighting in Libya shuts off most of the
output from Africa’s third-largest producer. A rebellion against
Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi has cut shipments from the North
African country by almost 90 percent, according to Bloomberg
estimates.  The group announced its biggest-ever supply cuts in
December 2008 amid a collapse in demand, capping production at
24.845 million barrels a day for all members except  Iraq , which
is exempt from the quota system. OPEC’s compliance rate with
those limits was 69 percent in April, it said in its most recent
monthly report on May 12.  OPEC’s members are Algeria,  Angola , Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya at   adaya1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 