-- 
HSBC Eases Dubai Mortgage Lending on Signs of Improving Property Market

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 
2011-06-09T11:35:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/hsbc-eases-dubai-mortgage-lending-on-signs-of-improving-market.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  is making it easier
for homebuyers to get loans in Dubai as one of the world’s
worst-performing real estate markets shows signs of improvement.  HSBC Bank Middle East Ltd., the Dubai-based unit of
 Europe ’s biggest bank, reduced  interest rates  on 25-year
mortgages by 76 basis points to 5.49 percent, said James Pearson, the 37-year-old head of assets and liabilities. The
company also lowered its down-payment requirements.  “We are seeing more demand this year. Absolutely,” he
said in an interview. “We’re also seeking out more demand.”  Mortgage financing in Dubai ground to a halt after the
global credit crisis caused prices to plunge by more than 60
percent and forced the  United Arab Emirates ’ two biggest
mortgage providers to stop lending for almost two years. An
improving economy has helped end a slide in property values in
completed developments such as Palm Jumeirah, Emirates Hills and
The Greens in the last six months, encouraging banks to increase
lending, Pearson said.  Mortgage delinquencies and defaults at the bank are
“improving,” he said. Impairments on all U.A.E loans fell by
half in 2010 from the year earlier, according to HSBC Middle
East. The unit had $24.6 billion in loans and advances to
customers in the Middle East and North Africa last year.  Smaller Down-Payments  The bank increased the amount of money it’s prepared to
lend to house buyers to as much as 80 percent of the property’s
value from 70 percent. The loan-to-value ratio for purchasers of
apartments is about 70 percent because a “significant”
increase in supply in 2011 and 2012 will put pressure on prices,
Pearson said in last week’s interview.  HSBC  Middle East  also lowered its monthly salary
requirement for borrowers by 25 percent to 15,000 dirhams
($4,080), he said.  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. estimates that 54,000 homes will
come onto the market in Dubai from 2011 to 2015. That’s about 15
percent to 20 percent of the existing supply, according to Jesse Downs, director for Middle East and North Africa at the property
broker.  The Dubai Financial Market Real Estate Index, which
includes shares of five developers, gained 0.6 percent at 3:15
p.m. in Dubai trading. The measure fell 9.6 percent this year.  Mortgage demand has plummeted since the days of Dubai’s
property boom, when speculators frequently bought yet-to-be-
built homes and sold them at a profit before a single brick was
laid. These days most loans are for completed properties in
developments with infrastructure and facilities.  Mostly Homeowners  Pearson said his company lends mostly to owner-occupiers
who want to refinance existing home loans as well as a small
number of investors.  While there is a gradual increase in U.A.E. mortgage
lending, the market is far short of a real recovery, said Tarik El Mejjad a London-based analyst for Nomura International Plc.  “There is competition over interest rates and banks are
trying to resume mortgage lending, but it’s not really
happening,” he said. “Loans have been contracting for most of
the banks. They are all shopping for the very best customers and
there aren’t many of them.”  Tamweel PJSC (TAMWEEL) , which along with Amlak PJSC provided almost
90 percent of all mortgages in the country by mid-2008, resumed
lending in October after a two-year halt. Dubai Islamic Bank in
September increased its stake in Tamweel to 58.3 percent from 21
percent in a government-led rescue.  Tamweel now offers a 25-year, 80 percent Islamic mortgage
at 5.75 percent profit rate to buyers in selected areas. A
U.A.E. government committee is still considering ways to
reorganize Amlak.  More Price Declines  House prices  are likely to decline by an additional 10
percent to 15 percent next year and service fees levied by
developers for maintenance of common areas will continue to
prevent a significant recovery, El Mejjad said.  “We are back up to a better, more normalized market
position,” HSBC’s Pearson said. “I still think there is more
growth to come because the stabilization needs to play through
to give customers more confidence.”  Economic growth in the U.A.E. will accelerate to 3.3
percent this year from 3.2 percent in 2010, while Dubai’s
economy will grow by 3 percent, according to the  International
Monetary Fund . Dubai GDP increased by 2.2 percent last year,
according to the emirate’s statistics bureau.  “With the U.A.E. returning to projected strong growth in
gross domestic product, we’re looking for the housing market to
track or slightly exceed that,” Pearson said.  House price growth is needed to help restore demand,
Pearson said.  “It doesn’t need to be 50 percent growth,” he said. Two
percent or 3 percent would be enough “to give the sense that
it’s a normal market, where house prices may appreciate with
inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 