-- 
Scene Last Night: ‘Chef’ Kapito’s $100,000 Meal, Keith Anderson

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-06-08T16:01:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/scene-last-night-chef-kapito-100-000-meal-john-thiel-keith-anderson.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  President Robert Kapito threw himself into his role as honoree at last night’s
American Cancer Society Financial Services Cares Gala.  Kapito offered himself and his staff in auction packages
bid on by 600 current and potential business partners at the
Grand Hyatt.  A managing director at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , acting on behalf of
a group of colleagues, made the winning bid of $40,000 on a
dinner at Rao’s in the company of Kapito and Eric Pellicciaro,
BlackRock’s head of global rates.  A  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  partner snapped up for $100,000
a candlelit dinner for eight prepared by Kapito, described in
the gala catalog as “BlackRock’s world-renowned chef.”  The wine steward will be Stuart Spodek, a BlackRock
managing director, and the waiters -- Jack Hattem, Ron Sion and
Akiva Dickstein -- are also from the firm  So what does Kapito plan to prepare?  “Tuna fish ... Just kidding,” he said.  “It will be five courses, probably lamb chops. A good
dinner,” he added. “I cook for a lot of people. Food is
love.”  In an interview during the cocktail reception, where sushi
and sliders were served, Kapito said he has been “working on
cancer issues for a very long time.” His wife, Ellen, is an
oncology nurse.  Outside of the  American Cancer Society , Kapito is president
of  Hope & Heroes Children’s Cancer Fund , which provides
pediatric oncology patients at  Columbia University Medical
Center  with acupuncture, massage and visits from clowns, to help
them get through treatment.  ‘Someone Needs To’  “I do it because someone needs to,” Kapito said after
greeting former colleague Keith Anderson, who is now chief
investment officer for Soros Fund Management LLC. “Tonight I
want to set the example that it’s not that hard.”  The event had another dedicated leader in its chairman,
John Thiel, head of U.S. wealth management at Merrill Lynch &
Co., who served as emcee and came to the aid of a Christie’s
auctioneer to drive up bids.  “God has blessed me very abundantly and I want to share my
good fortune with the people who have less,” Thiel said in an
interview.  Kapito’s generosity continued into the final moments of the
night, during a round of pledging on hand-held electronic
devices. The goal was $250,000, with the amount raised being
updated on large screens in front of the room.  Kapito came to the lectern when the tally was $160,918.  “Let’s clear that up back there,” he said in reference to
the screens. “Ellen and I will make up the difference.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 