-- 
SEC Says Companies Should Disclose Cyber Attacks in Filings

-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 
2011-06-08T20:44:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/sec-says-companies-should-disclose-cyber-attacks-in-filings.html
The Securities and Exchange
Commission said publicly traded companies should disclose to
investors the threat and potential impact of cyber attacks that
pose a “specific and material” risk.  The SEC made its comments in a letter to Senator  Jay Rockefeller , chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, that was
released today. Last month, Rockefeller and four other
Democratic senators wrote a letter to SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro 
urging the agency to issue guidance on disclosure of data-
security risk, including “material network breaches,” attacks
that may result in the theft of intellectual property or trade
secrets.  Federal securities law obliges public companies to disclose
risks that a reasonable investor would consider important to an
 investment decision , the SEC said in its letter. Those
disclosures may include reporting a prior cyber attack or the
threat of a future attack, as well as the impact of a computer
assault, the SEC said.  “Although we are not aware that investors have asked for
more disclosure in this area, I have asked the commission staff
to provide me with a briefing on current disclosure practices,”
Shapiro said in the letter dated June 6. “As we further analyze
this issue, we will seriously consider your request for
interpretive guidance.”  Data breaches at  Sony Corp. (6758)  and other companies have
sharpened U.S. government scrutiny of how businesses safeguard
consumer information and respond to cyber attacks. The Obama
administration on May 12 sent Congress a proposal that called
for shielding banks, power grids and government computers,
creating a uniform data-breach notification law and requiring
owners of critical systems to develop network-security plans.  Securing Cyberspace  “Securing cyberspace is one of the most important and
urgent challenges of our time,” Rockefeller, a West  Virginia 
Democrat, and the other senators wrote to the SEC on May 11.
“It is essential that corporate leaders know their
responsibility for managing and disclosing security risk.”  A “substantial number” of companies don’t report
information security risk to investors, and when they do, the
results are inconsistent, they wrote. Such lack of information
devalues security and “impairs investor decision-making,”
according to the letter, which also was signed by Richard Blumenthal of  Connecticut , Robert Menendez of  New Jersey , Mark Warner of Virginia and Sheldon Whitehouse of  Rhode Island .  Malicious attacks made up 31 percent of U.S. data breaches
in 2010, up from 24 percent a year earlier, with each incident
costing businesses an average of $7.2 million, according to a
March study by the  Ponemon Institute , an information-security
research firm based in North Traverse City,  Michigan . The study
found that about 85 percent of all U.S. companies have
experienced one or more attacks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Riddell in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  