-- 
Shrinking Valuations Drive Bank Payroll Cuts to Buoy Profits

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-06-08T10:49:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/shrinking-bank-valuations-drive-pressure-for-payroll-cuts-to-buoy-profits.html
Financial firms, shunned by investors
to a degree seen only once in the last 20 years, are becoming a
smaller part of the U.S. economy as they deal with a past that
won’t go away and a future of lower revenue and fewer jobs.  Shares of financial companies have fallen for three
straight months and now have their lowest ratio to the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index since 2009. Net revenue at the six largest
U.S. lenders --  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
Morgan Stanley -- will probably fall 3.7 percent in the second
quarter, the fourth year-over-year decline in five quarters,
according to 100 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Persistent low interest rates and stagnant loan growth are
shrinking interest income as new regulations curtail fee revenue
from retail banking. Analysts, including  Meredith Whitney  and
Nomura Holding Inc.’s  Glenn Schorr , expect the slow growth to
result in job cuts on Wall Street in the coming months.  “Without any change, the financial sector is definitely
set to shrink,” said John Garvey, head of the financial
industry advisory practice at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. “You
don’t have to be a scientist to figure out that tighter
regulation and more onerous capital rules without economic
growth will shrink the industry. It has to.”  Appaloosa Stakes  Financial stocks have trailed the broader market for nine
of the past 11 months. The ratio between the price of the 82-
member  S&P 500 Financials Index (S5FINL)  and the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  is less
than 0.16, down from a peak of 0.36 in March 2004. The only
other time in the past 20 years that the ratio dropped below
0.16 was a stretch from January to mid-April 2009, when some
banks faced the prospect of nationalization after taking
billions of dollars in rescue funds to survive a credit crisis.  David Tepper , founder of hedge fund Appaloosa Management
LP, used his investments in the largest banks that year to drive
a 132 percent return in 2009, making his fund the best performer
among those with more than $1 billion in assets.  This time around, Tepper, 53, isn’t as bullish. Appaloosa
cut its stakes in five banks -- Citigroup, Wells Fargo, Bank of
America,  Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB)  and SunTrust Banks Inc. -- in the
first quarter by an average of 43 percent.  “I wish it was 80 percent, because they’ve been absolute
crap since we sold them,” said Tepper, whose fund is based in
Short Hills, New Jersey. “So we were 40 percent right.”  15 ‘Overhangs’  Banks face at least 15 major “overhangs” to performance
over the next few years, FBR Capital Markets analysts including
Edward Mills wrote in a June 3 note to investors.  Drags on earnings include new regulations surrounding
proprietary trading and debit-card interchange fees; state and
federal investigations into mortgage practices; and stricter
capital and liquidity requirements. New rules set by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision, which begin to go into effect
in 2013, may trim the return on equity of U.S. banks by 3
percentage points, according to estimates by McKinsey & Co.
consultants. The requirements may be especially onerous at firms
deemed systemically important.  “Those are pretty big clouds, there’s no arguing with
that,” JPMorgan Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon, 55, said last week at an investor conference in  New York .
“So, if you’re an investor, you’re going to look at it and say
there is a lot of uncertainty.”  Legal Risks  As less revenue comes into banks, more money may be drained
by mounting legal risks, according to FBR.  Bank of America, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, paid
about $3 billion to resolve some mortgage repurchase demands
from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the fourth quarter, and it
may face more claims as housing prices slide this year. The
largest mortgage servicers, including Bank of America, Wells
Fargo and New York-based JPMorgan, also may have to spend $5
billion to $17 billion to settle state probes into documentation
lapses during home seizures, according to the FBR note.  Goldman Sachs, which paid $550 million to settle Securities
and Exchange Commission charges related to its marketing of
mortgage-related securities, now faces investigations by the
Department of Justice and the Manhattan District Attorney’s
office after U.S. Senate investigators focused on the bank in a
probe of Wall Street’s role in the housing-market collapse.  “U.S. banking profitability will be considerably less in
my view in the period ahead than it was in the early part of
this century,” Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Chairman Warren Buffett,
80, told the company’s shareholders April 30 during their annual
meeting in Omaha, Nebraska.  ‘Bad Thing’  One key reason is that banks won’t be able to use as much
leverage -- borrowing money to multiply their returns -- as
regulators tighten capital rules, he said.  “That’s probably a good thing for society,” Buffett said.
“That may be a bad thing for banks who can use leverage
intelligently.”  Even U.S. banks’ core lending mission is under pressure.
 Average net interest margin , the difference between what banks
charge for loans and pay on their own borrowings, rebounded from
an all-time low at the end of 2008 as the  Federal Reserve  cut
 interest rates , climbing from 3.15 percent to 3.84 percent in
March 2010, according to data from the Federal Reserve Bank of
St. Louis.  Since then, net interest margin has fallen for four
straight quarters to 3.57 percent, the data show. That has come
as banks run out of room to cut deposit rates, and higher-
yielding loans are paid off or default and are replaced by
lower-rate loans. While loans made up 49 percent of interest-
earning assets at the four biggest banks last year, the same
percentage as in 2005, the rate earned on those loans was 6
percent, down from 7.2 percent five years earlier, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fewer Loans  Loan growth stalled as consumers cut back debt and demand
for mortgages waned. Average loans among 37 banks with the
largest market values fell 4 percent in the first quarter from
last year, according to a May 10 report by Melissa Roberts and
Elissa Niemiera, analysts at KBW Inc.  The four largest U.S. banks were looking to unload $751
billion of loans as of Dec. 31 as they exit some lending
businesses and try to cut their riskiest assets, Brian Foran and
Schorr, analysts at Nomura in New York, wrote in a March 1
research note. That represents 26 percent of their total
lending, presenting a high hurdle for loan growth as banks try
to make up for the loss of runoff loans, they wrote.  Shrinking Workforce  The lack of growth and mortgage-related issues, combined
with what he called “attacks” on the industry, helped
Appaloosa’s Tepper reach his decision to cut bank holdings last
quarter, he said. The strength of the  U.S. economy  will largely
determine whether the industry shrinks, and regulatory changes
are already reflected in the share prices, he said.  “If the economy is OK, these stocks are probably getting
attractive again,” Tepper said. “They’re not uninteresting
now, but I don’t know if they’re interesting.”  Financial companies accounted for 29.3 percent of U.S.
corporate profits over the 12 months ended March 31, compared
with 31.6 percent over the previous decade, according to data
from the Bureau of Economic Analysis. That’s off the high of
41.7 percent in the 12 months ended Sept. 30, 2002.  The number of U.S. financial-industry jobs dropped for the
fourth straight year to an average of 7.63 million in 2010,
according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. That’s 8.4 percent
below the 2006 peak, and the figure fell to 7.61 million in May.
 New York City  lost about 14,600 jobs in investment banking,
securities dealing and brokerage in the year ended Nov. 30,
according to the New York State Department of Labor.  Morgan Stanley (MS)   Four of the six largest banks reduced their staff in the
first quarter, led by Wells Fargo’s 2,000 cuts, while Citigroup
maintained its headcount and JPMorgan added about 3,000 workers.  Morgan Stanley, owner of the world’s largest brokerage, may
eliminate more jobs at its wealth management unit, Chief
Financial Officer Ruth Porat said at the Deutsche Bank Global
Financial Services Conference in New York yesterday. The
division, which had about 17,800 employees at the end of March,
was previously aiming to reduce that figure to as little as
17,500, according to a spokesman for the bank.  “We may reduce our broker headcount below previously
announced targets,” Porat said.  Barclays Plc, the British bank that acquired Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s U.S. unit in 2008, cut as many as 50
jobs in its equities division worldwide, according to a person
familiar with the matter. The reductions affected employees in
sales, trading and research, said the person, who requested
anonymity because the plan isn’t public. The move, part of a
mid-year performance review, wasn’t made because of falling
revenue, the person said.  ‘Unsexy’ Housing Market  “I’ve looked for layoffs on Wall Street for the past six
months,” Whitney said on Bloomberg Radio in May. “You have a
clear issue: Wall Street’s revenues were driven by something as
unsexy as the housing market.”  Falling bank stocks have discouraged executives from making
acquisitions to drive revenue growth. Banks, thrifts and
diversified financial firms have been acquirers in $40.2 billion
of announced deals through May, an amount set to rival 2009 as
the lowest year of acquisitions since 2002.  “Investors would like acquisitions to occur, but they have
to be at a certain price point,” Stephen Steinour, CEO of
Columbus, Ohio-based Huntington Bancshares Inc., the 17th-
largest U.S. bank. “For us, at 1.5-times book, our stock is
very cheap. Why would I want to give up that cheap stock to buy
a problem?”  Bread and Butter  Instead, banks are shifting focus back to bread-and-butter
businesses, such as retail banking, brokerage services and asset
management, and dusting off past strategies, such as “cross-
selling” additional products to existing customers.  Morgan Stanley, based in New York, has hired more than 170
private bankers to make loans and offer deposit products to its
retail brokerage clients. Bank of America is looking to win
banking business from the two-thirds of Merrill Lynch customers
who have bank accounts with other lenders. Wells Fargo in  San
Francisco  is building out its retail brokerage as it seeks to
capture business from 5.2 million clients who hold $1.7 trillion
in investment assets at other firms.  None of those strategies is likely to replace the mortgage
securitization boom and leveraged bets that drove years of
profits before the 2008 credit crisis, Whitney said.  “Nothing is compelling in terms of providing a great
growth engine for the large banks,” Thomas Brown, CEO of Second
Curve Capital LLC and a Bloomberg contributing editor, said on
Bloomberg Television last month.  Looking Overseas  Banks will end up battling for market share in the U.S.,
said PricewaterhouseCoopers’ Garvey.  “Right now in the U.S., it’s much more about carving up
the pie a different way rather than growing the pie,” he said.  That’s driving the country’s biggest banks to seek growth
overseas, particularly in emerging markets. Citigroup CEO Vikram Pandit, 54, predicted in 2009 that his bank would become the
“largest emerging-markets financial services company,” a goal
he pursued last year by increasing assets in Latin America and
Asia by 16 percent to more than $470 billion. The firm, based in
New York, now gets more than half of its profit from emerging
markets,  Pandit said  at a March 9 conference.  “We have a unique footprint that we believe will allow us
to harness global growth trends and deliver value to our clients
and shareholders over time,” said Shannon Bell, a Citigroup
spokeswoman in New York.  Spokesmen for the other five banks declined to comment or
didn’t return calls.  Moynihan, Cohn  Bank of America CEO Brian Moynihan, 51, said in February
that his bank would look to produce revenue increases that
outpaced the growth of the U.S. economy by 1 percentage point,
driven by its international opportunities. Goldman Sachs Chief
Operating Officer Gary Cohn, 50, said this month that his firm’s
hiring efforts are concentrated on  China , India and Brazil.  Looking for revenue in developing countries won’t be easy,
as banks face strong local competition, lower fees than in the
U.S. and political obstacles.  “We expect to continue to see ferocious competition in
these markets,” analysts from  Oliver Wyman  and Morgan Stanley
said in a March research paper on investment banking. “The
importance of emerging markets looks set to intensify, but
rising costs and falling yields will mean less of the top-line
growth comes through to the bottom line.”  ‘More Shrinkage’  The focus on emerging markets may also lead to more job
cuts in the U.S., analysts said.  “You’ll have more banks going after the emerging markets
business because it’s growing, and there’s probably less
regulatory scrutiny,” said Keith Davis, an analyst at Farr,
Miller & Washington LLC in Washington, which manages about $700
million. “I wouldn’t be surprised to see banks devote resources
to the build out of their international network, especially in
emerging markets, and more shrinkage in the U.S. as regulatory
requirements get more onerous and returns fall.”  Morgan Stanley CEO James Gorman, 52, said at the firm’s
annual shareholders meeting last month that financial companies
are undervalued because investors are focused on worst-case
scenarios and lack clarity about regulatory changes and new
capital rules. Value investors may soon find the industry
attractive as many firms are trading below book value, he said.  ‘One-Way Bets’  The 10 largest U.S. banks by assets are trading at about 91
percent of their book value, ranging from 50 percent at Bank of
America to 161 percent at Minneapolis-based US Bancorp. That
means investors don’t believe the assets of some banks are worth
as much as the companies say.  Financial firms, led by New York-based Citigroup, were the
most sold-off sector by hedge funds in the first quarter,
according to filings by 817 hedge funds compiled by Bloomberg.
Hedge funds cut positions in financials by 1.3 percent in the
quarter, more than three times the decline for any other sector.  “We’ve had so many value investors that have gone into
them, been burned and come back out that it is a tough time to
sell brokerage stocks or banks” to investors, Brad Hintz, a
Sanford C. Bernstein analyst, said in a Bloomberg Radio
interview last month. “They cannot trade below their
liquidation value. At some point, they become one-way bets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  