-- 
Singapore Economy May Expand Faster Than Estimated

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-06-08T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/singapore-economy-may-expand-6-2-this-year.html
Singapore ’s economy may expand faster
than previously estimated in 2011, fueling inflation and
spurring a larger appreciation in the currency, a central bank
survey of economists showed.  Gross domestic product may increase 6.2 percent this year
after growing 14.5 percent in 2010, according to the median
estimate of 21 economists in a survey by the Monetary Authority
of Singapore released today. The economists predicted 2011
growth of 5.7 percent in last quarter’s poll.  Asian policy makers from  China  to Thailand and  India  have
raised  interest rates  or allowed their currencies to gain to
curb price pressures after the region rebounded from the 2009
global recession. Singapore’s central bank said in April it
would allow further currency appreciation in its third
tightening of monetary policy in a year, a move that has pushed
the local dollar to a record.  “The government has moved to tame inflationary pressures
that it can directly control or have a strong influence over”
even as the battle against inflation is far from finished, Kit Wei Zheng, a Singapore-based economist at Citigroup Inc., said
in a report yesterday. “It appears too early to completely rule
out further MAS tightening in October, even if the bar is higher
for further tightening.”  The government expects growth of as much as 7 percent in
2011. The Southeast Asian island’s economy will probably expand
2 percent this quarter from a year earlier, the MAS survey
showed. GDP rose 8.3 percent in the three months through March
from a year earlier.  Inflation Pressure  Consumer prices will probably rise 4.1 percent this year,
according to the survey, faster than the 4 percent pace
predicted in the March report. The central bank, which uses its
currency rather than interest rates to manage price gains,
forecasts inflation will average between 3 percent and 4 percent
in 2011.  The  Singapore dollar  may strengthen to S$1.21 versus the
U.S. currency by the end of 2011, and end this quarter at S$1.23,
the survey showed. It traded at S$1.2302 a dollar at 11:52 a.m.
local time.  Manufacturing will probably increase 8 percent in 2011,
faster than the 5.9 percent rate predicted last quarter, the
survey showed. Non-oil domestic exports may climb 9 percent,
less than March’s estimate of 10 percent, according to the
median forecast.  Singapore’s building industry may grow less than economists
previously expected this year with an advance of 3.5 percent,
the survey showed. Private consumption may climb 5 percent,
while financial services may increase 8.8 percent, according to
the median estimates.  Singapore’s unemployment rate may be 2 percent by the end
of this quarter and remain at that level at the end of the year,
the survey showed. It was 1.9 percent in the three months
through March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  