-- 
South Korea to Weigh Rate Increase as Household Debt Poses Risk for Growth

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   S a r i n a   Y o o
-- 
2011-06-09T05:49:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/south-korea-to-weigh-rate-increase-as-household-debt-poses-risk-for-growth.html
The Bank of  Korea  will weigh an
interest-rate increase tomorrow as swelling household debt and
weakness in the global economy pose threats to growth.  Nine of 17 economists expect the benchmark rate will stay
unchanged at 3 percent, while eight forecast an increase of a
quarter of a percentage point, a Bloomberg News survey shows.  Officials must decide whether protecting the nation’s
expansion is more important than taming inflation that’s
exceeded a 4 percent target ceiling each month this year.
Economists have found it difficult to predict the central bank’s
policy moves, with their median estimates proved wrong in six of
the past 12 decisions.  “It’s hard to predict what the Bank of Korea will do with
rates this week given its surprising moves in the past,” said
Eugene Kim, chief investment officer at Samsung Asset Management
Co.,  South Korea ’s largest bond-fund manager. “Risks to growth
have increased since they unexpectedly kept rates on hold last
month. But they might go ahead with a rate hike belatedly to
tame inflation.”  Rising unemployment in the U.S. and  Europe ’s debt crisis
may threaten demand for the nation’s exports, which are
equivalent to about half of economic output. Within South Korea,
bank lending to households rose to a record in April,
underscoring official warnings on the risks from excessive debt.  Bond Spread  Governor Kim Choong Soo’s officials raised rates by 25
basis points in January and March before unexpectedly keeping
them unchanged last month. He said on May 18 that the  Bank of
Korea  will continue to boost borrowing costs at its own pace and
also that the nation needs to be wary of an inflation spiral.  The spread between rates on two- and 10-year government
debt narrowed to a 29-month low of 68 basis points on May 30 as
yields fell on both securities, suggesting policy makers will
keep borrowing costs unchanged tomorrow, according to Daewoo
Securities Co. That gap held close to that level, at 71 points,
yesterday.  Nomura Holdings Inc. dropped its call for a June rate
increase and said it now expects the bank to boost rates by 0.5
percentage point in the next 18 months compared with its
previous projection of 1 percentage point. The central bank will
focus more on downside risks to growth than inflation risks,
said Kwon Young Sun, a Hong Kong-based economist at Nomura.  Record Household Debt  The Financial Services Commission said this week
authorities need to pay special attention to household debt,
“which may weigh considerably on the financial market.”  Household debt rose to a record 801.4 trillion won ($740
billion) in the first three months of this year, the Bank of
Korea said on May 25. Bank lending to households rose by the
most in six months in May, increasing 3.3 trillion won to 439.8
trillion won, the central bank said today.  Financial liabilities of individuals in South Korea were
155.4 percent of disposable income at the end of 2010, “one of
the highest ratios globally” and still climbing, Young Il Choi,
an analyst at Moody’s Investors Service, said in a report last
month.  South Korea’s economy grew 4.2 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, unchanged from an earlier estimate, the
central bank said yesterday. The economy expanded 1.3 percent in
the three months through March from the previous quarter, less
than the April estimate of a 1.4 percent gain.  Political Pressure  The nation’s exports were a record $49 billion in April and
overseas demand has bolstered sales for carmakers including
Hyundai Motor Co. this year. In contrast, domestic investment
and consumption were sluggish in April, the statistics agency
said on May 31.  Wai Ho Leong, a senior regional economist at  Barclays
Capital  in  Singapore , said the central bank may raise  interest
rates  tomorrow to help tame prices. The BOK may also want to
push ahead now because it may be harder to raise rates later in
the year as the government prepares for parliamentary and
presidential elections in 2012, he said.  “The risk is that with elections looming closer next year,
it may face increasingly more political pressure to slow its
rate normalization,” said Leong, who expects two more rate
increases this year after a move tomorrow.  President  Lee Myung Bak ’s public support has dwindled
partly due to the rising cost of living. His rating fell to 27.1
percent in a May 23-27 poll compared with 76 percent when he
came to power in February 2008, according to Seoul-based
Realmeter.  Lee declared “war” on inflation in January, and the
government imposed price controls and tolerated currency
appreciation as part of the campaign. The won has climbed more
than 4 percent against the dollar so far this year.  Consumer prices rose 4.1 percent last month from a year
earlier after a 4.2 percent gain in April. Core prices, which
exclude fuel and food prices, advanced 3.5 percent in May from a
year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Sarina Yoo in Seoul at 
 kyoo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  