-- 
Spain Defends Labor-Law Overhaul Attacked by Business, Unions

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-06-09T14:18:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/spanish-employers-call-zapatero-s-wage-law-disappointing-.html
The Spanish government won’t accept a
labor-law overhaul reducing workers’ rights, said Labor Minister
Valeriano Gomez as he defended measures that the country’s
business lobby says won’t slash  Europe ’s highest jobless rate.  “The government’s role is to promote peace, justice and
equilibrium through balanced reforms and continued
negotiation,” Gomez told reporters in Madrid today after
meeting with representatives from the country’s two biggest
unions to hand over the draft of planned wage-bargaining
legislation.  Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero will
unveil tomorrow an overhaul of employment rules he has pledged
to implement as part of efforts to keep  Spain  clear of Europe’s
debt crisis, and which has to be approved by parliament. The
 European Central Bank  and European Commission have called on
Spain to change laws that allowed wage costs to rise as much as
4 percent a year during the recession.  The Socialist government had to push ahead with legislation
after talks between employers and unions broke down last week. A
draft bill obtained by Bloomberg News says wage deals negotiated
at the company rather than industry level take precedence and
that talks now have to be concluded within 20 months. It also
gives companies leeway to modify some rules in wage-bargaining
agreements.  The government has also included safeguards that maintain
the prevalence of broader union-negotiated deals, criticized by
economists and employers. “I don’t believe this formula is
enough to change the status quo,” said Luis Garicano, an
economics professor at the  London School of Economics .  ‘Disappointing’  The draft wage-bargaining bill is “disappointing” and
won’t reduce the 21 percent unemployment rate, Juan Rosell,
chairman of Spain’s main business group CEOE, told a news
conference in Madrid yesterday. “Flexibility is the most
important issue for us and less progress has been made than we
thought,” he said.  Rosell said the CEOE’s proposals for allowing companies to
move workers around, have irregular working days and increase
extra hours were dismissed. He called the bill “unbalanced.”  Gomez denied the plan was designed to please the unions.
Spanish rules, he said, are still based on agreements concluded
between employers and unions in the 1980. “These can’t be
broken, they have to be negotiated,” he said.  “The project is solely the government’s thinking, not what
unions asked for,” Toni Ferrer, a secretary of the UGT union,
said after the meeting. Zapatero’s plan continues in the same
direction, he said, referring to a labor-market reform approved
last year that reduces firing costs and simplifies contracts.  Budget Cuts  The government has seen its authority undermined in the
past year as it angered voters with the deepest budget cuts in
three decades. The ruling party suffered its worst local-
election defeat in three decades on May 22 and general elections
are due in nine months. The opposition  People’s Party  might win
45.9 percent of the vote if balloting were held now, according
to a survey cited by the newspaper El Mundo on June 5.  “A lame duck heading out is unlikely to stand up to the
unions. Spanish people believe unions are protecting workers’
rights,” said Gayle Allard, an economics professor at the IE
Business School in Madrid. “They don’t realize the millions of
unemployed and workers on temporary contracts are left out.”  Zapatero risks failing to convince investors he can tackle
the euro region’s third-largest deficit, prompting Spain’s
borrowing costs to rise further. The extra yield investors
demand to hold 10-year Spanish debt rather than German
equivalents surged to 239 basis points today, more than 10 times
the average in the first decade of monetary union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 Abenoit4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  