-- 
Steve Jobs Shows Off ‘Spaceship’ Design for New Apple Campus

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-06-08T20:59:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/steve-jobs-shows-off-spaceship-design-for-new-apple-campus.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Jobs  unveiled his plans for a new company campus with a
circular design he likened to a spaceship that will accommodate
about 12,000 employees.  Jobs showed designs for the building at a city council
meeting yesterday in Cupertino, California, a video of which was
posted online. The facility would be built a few blocks from
Apple’s current headquarters on land the company bought from
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)   The new four-story building would help Apple accommodate a
staff base that’s growing as demand surges for the company’s
computers and smartphones. The plans shown at the council
meeting include a curved glass building with a large courtyard
in the middle. A parking lot will be constructed underneath the
facility, allowing 80 percent of the site to be landscaping.  “It’s a little like a spaceship landed,” Jobs said of the
design. “We’ve seen these office parks with lots of buildings
and they get pretty boring pretty fast, so we’d like to do
something better than that.”  Apple plans to break ground next year and move in by 2015,
Jobs said. He told the city council that the company’s
headquarters now only holds about 2,800 people, and that Apple
has been renting  office space  nearby to accommodate workers.  ‘Out of Space’  The plans demonstrate Apple’s growth. The company’s profits
have more than quadrupled since the 2007 introduction of the
iPhone, helping make Apple the world’s largest technology
company by market value. The shares rose 20 cents to $332.24 in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading today.  “Apple’s growing like a weed,” Jobs said. “It’s clear
that we need to build a new campus. We’re just out of space.”  The planned 3.1-million-square-foot campus will have
features such as a large auditorium for presentations and a
fitness center, Jobs said. Apple also is considering generating
its own power on-site from natural gas, and using the general
 power grid  as a backup, Jobs said.  Apple hasn’t disclosed who is designing the building or how
much it will cost, said Steve Dowling, a company spokesman.  Jobs, appearing a day after introducing Apple’s new iCloud
service at a conference in  San Francisco , said the land for the
building is of special significance to him because it’s where he
worked for Hewlett-Packard when he was young.  Apple is working with an arborist at  Stanford University 
and plans to put 6,000 trees on the property, including apricot
trees, a nod to the orchards that once filled the area of
Silicon Valley about 45 miles south of San Francisco.  Largest Taxpayer  Jobs, who attended middle school and high school in
Cupertino, was asked by a city council member what benefit
residents of the town will see from the new facility.  “We’re the largest taxpayer in Cupertino, so we’d like to
continue to stay here and pay taxes,” Jobs said. Without a new
campus, Apple may have to move to another city, such as  Mountain
View ,  California , where Google Inc. is based, Jobs said.  “The largest tax base would go away,” he said. “That
wouldn’t be good for Cupertino and that wouldn’t be good for us
either.”  He was also asked whether Apple would provide the town of
about 58,000 people with free Wi-Fi Internet access.  “I’m a simpleton,” Jobs said. “I’ve always had this view
that we pay taxes and the city should do those things. If we can
get out of paying taxes, I’d be glad to put up Wi-Fi.”  Jobs, on medical leave from Apple since January, said the
company hired some of the best architects in the world to design
the building.  “I think we do have a shot at building the best office
building in the world,” he said. “I really do think
architecture students will come here to see this. I think it
could be that good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  