-- 
Sudan Announces Agreement on Debt, Oil With Seceding South, Minister Says

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-06-08T16:53:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/sudan-announces-agreement-on-debt-oil-with-seceding-south-minister-says.html
Sudan  said it agreed with Southern
Sudan to lobby creditors for relief on its $38 billion foreign
debt and set up a mechanism for the payment of fees on the
export of oil from sub-Saharan  Africa ’s third-biggest producer.  If there is no debt relief within two years, they agreed to
share responsibility for the debt, Idris Abdelgadir, state
minister for presidential affairs, told parliament today in
Omdurman, a suburb of Khartoum, the capital. The accord came in
negotiations to prepare for oil-rich Southern Sudan’s
independence on July 9.  Sudan hasn’t been able to borrow from the  World Bank  since
1993 because it failed to make payments on its debt and has
 arrears  of about $30 billion, according to the Washington-based
Center for Global Development, an aid research group.  Southern Sudan , which will assume control of about 75
percent of Sudan’s current oil production of 490,000 barrels a
day, will pay the north fees for the use of pipelines and
facilities at  Port Sudan  on the  Red Sea  to export the crude,
Abdelgadir said.  Sudan’s crude is pumped mainly by China National Petroleum
Corp., Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd and India’s Oil &
Natural Gas Corp.  Almost 99 percent of Southern Sudanese voters chose
independence in a referendum in January. The balloting was the
centerpiece of a 2005  peace agreement  that ended decades of
civil war between the north and south.  The two sides are also discussing issues such as security
arrangements, border demarcation and the future of the disputed
region of Abyei. Sudan’s army occupied Abyei on May 21 after
accusing southern forces of attacking its soldiers there two
days earlier.  Southern Sudanese citizens who have been residing in the
north won’t be given the choice between the citizenship of the
two future separate nations, Abdelgadir said. The southerners
must take the citizenship of the new state within six months to
a year, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 