-- 
Summary of Economic Reports by Federal Reserve District Banks

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-06-08T21:00:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/summary-of-economic-reports-by-federal-reserve-district-banks.html
Following is a summary of U.S.
economic conditions as reported by the 12 Federal Reserve
district banks in the central bank’s latest regional survey,
also known as the Beige Book.  The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  prepared the latest
report, based on information collected on or before May 27.  Boston: “Many business contacts in the First District
report improving economic conditions. Firms in manufacturing,
software and information technology, and staffing services cite
ongoing increases in demand, with manufacturers reporting the
most strength. Commercial real estate markets are improving
modestly, retail reports are mixed, and residential real estate
markets remain weak.”  New York: “The Second District’s economy has continued to
expand since the last report, though at a somewhat diminished
pace. Labor market conditions have continued to improve
modestly. Retail sales have held steady at favorable levels
since the last report. Consumer confidence reports have been
mixed. Tourism activity picked up in April but tapered off a bit
in early May.”  Philadelphia: “Business activity in the Third District has
improved overall since the last  Beige Book , although the pace
has softened. Manufacturers reported increases in shipments and
new orders in May, although at a much slower pace than the past
two months. Retailers posted slight year-over-year sales
increases in May.”  ‘Modest Pace’  Cleveland : “Business activity in the Fourth District
continued to expand at a modest pace since our last report.
Manufacturers reported a slight rise in production, though
several noted a softening in market conditions. Freight
transport volume increased for a broad range of manufactured
goods.”  Richmond: “Economic activity has been sending increasingly
mixed signals since our last report. The banking sector improved
moderately, led by gains in commercial and industrial lending.
Tourism also strengthened, with holiday bookings expected to be
above year-ago levels. Reports on District labor markets were
generally positive; however, employment agents noted that some
manufacturing clients were cautious about hiring. Residential
and commercial real estate agents generally described activity
as mixed. Moreover, manufacturing lost momentum, with several
contacts noting that demand had leveled off in recent weeks.”  Big Impact  Atlanta: “The majority of manufacturers continued to
report increases in new orders and production. Auto
manufacturers, however, reduced production because of supply
constraints stemming from the Japanese earthquake. The late
April tornadoes in several states and flooding on the lower
 Mississippi River  had a significant impact on economic activity
in the directly affected areas.”  Chicago: “Supply chain disruptions reduced activity in the
automotive sector, but mostly for the Japanese automakers and
their suppliers. District automakers were able to avoid the most
severe dislocations by reallocating parts to vehicles that are
in high demand and implementing contingency plans for
alternative supply sources. In addition, a contact noted that
some automakers and their suppliers are moving planned summer
shutdowns forward into June.”  St. Louis : “The economy of the Eighth District has
continued to expand at a moderate pace since our previous
report. Manufacturing activity has continued to increase since
the previous report, while activity in the services sector has
declined. Retail sales increased in April and early May over
year-earlier levels.”  Steady Growth  Minneapolis: “Economic activity in the Ninth District grew
steadily since the last report. Increased activity was noted in
 consumer spending , tourism, services, commercial construction,
manufacturing, and energy and mining. Residential construction
and real estate and agricultural activity decreased, while
commercial real estate activity was flat.”  Kansas City : “Growth in the Tenth District economy
remained solid in May. Consumer spending grew further, and
transportation and high-tech firms reported generally strong
activity. The  energy industry  continued to expand at a robust
pace, and agricultural activity was mostly positive with
generally favorable growing conditions and rising farmland
values.”  ‘Accelerated Pace’  Dallas : “The Eleventh District economy expanded at an
accelerated pace over the past six weeks. In particular, energy
sector respondents noted increased activity. Sectors that had
previously reported weak demand, including accounting, legal and
financial services -- as well as the construction sector --
noted improvement since the last report.”  San Francisco : “Twelfth District economic activity
continued to expand at a moderate pace during the reporting
period of late April through the end of May. Price increases for
final goods and services remained limited, and upward pressures
on wages were subdued on balance. Sales of retail items rose
further, while demand for business and consumer services was
mixed. District manufacturing activity also was mixed but
appeared to expand overall.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in  Washington  at 
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  