-- 
Swedish Krona Surge Justified, Not Led by Tightening, Riksbank Deputy Says

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-06-08T10:51:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/swedish-krona-surge-justified-not-led-by-tightening-riksbank-deputy-says.html
Sweden’s krona, which is up about 30
percent against the dollar in the past year, is only “starting
to approach” a level that can be deemed “reasonable,” central
bank Deputy Governor Lars Nyberg said.  “We’ve said for at least ten years that the krona has been
undervalued and ought to strengthen a bit,” Nyberg said in an
interview in  Stockholm  yesterday. “It’s now starting to
approach a level that’s more reasonably valued than it has been
during the last 10 years.”  The krona’s gains against the dollar and the euro in the
past year have left it the second-strongest performing major
currency in the period after the Swiss franc. The currency’s
surge has come as the central bank has raised the benchmark
interest rate six times since July, bringing it to 1.75 percent
in April. Policy makers are signaling the rate will need to rise
throughout the rest of the year.  “We have raised faster than others and that would lead you
to believe that the krona should have strengthened a lot more
than it actually has done, but that has not happened,” Nyberg
said. “We haven’t seen these problems but of course we follow
the development.”  The krona erased some of its losses against the euro to
trade 0.2 percent down at 9.0399 at 12:10 p.m. compared with a
0.4 percent loss earlier in the day. Against  Norway ’s krone, the
Swedish currency gained 0.3 percent. It was down 0.4 percent
versus the dollar, compared with an earlier 0.6 percent loss
today.  Companies Resilient  The krona will strengthen to 8.7 against the euro toward
the end of the year, according to  Carl Hammer , chief foreign
exchange strategist at SEB AB in Stockholm. It will gain to
about 8.9 to 9 in the next few months, he estimates.  “If you ask companies if today’s levels, or some more
strengthening, would be very negative, most say that they will
manage a continued strong currency or an even stronger
currency,” Hammer said. “The krona is somewhat undervalued.”  The krona will probably deliver about 5 percent to 7
percent in further gains in trade weighted terms, he said.  Sweden’s economic rebound has outpaced growth in the rest
of  Europe . The largest Nordic economy grew an annual 6.4 percent
last quarter after expanding 7.7 percent in the last three
months of 2010, helped by an export boom, according to the
Stockholm-based statistics office.  A strong krona “is not a problem at the moment,” Nyberg
said. “We’re of course tracking the development but we have no
target for the  exchange rate .”  The Riksbank’s official forecast is for the krona to
“flatten or maybe fall slightly, but it’s very hard to say,”
Nyberg said. “To forecast the krona is incredibly difficult but
we haven’t seen any big negative effects of this development on
either demand or inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  