-- 
Swiss Stocks Decline for Fifth Day; Logitech, UBS Lead Benchmark SMI Lower

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-06-08T15:57:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/swiss-stocks-decline-for-fifth-day-logitech-ubs-lead-drop.html
Swiss stocks declined for a fifth
day, the longest losing streak in 2 1/2 months, after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  gave no sign he is planning new
stimulus efforts to bolster the weakening U.S. economy.  Logitech International SA (LOGN) , the world’s biggest maker of
computer mice, slumped 3.4 percent and  Clariant AG (CLN) , the maker of
chemicals and paints, slipped 3.6 percent as gauges of
technology and chemical companies in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
fell more than 1 percent.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank,
dropped 2.1 percent to the lowest since November.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies retreated 1.2 percent to 6,256.86 at the 5:30
p.m. close in Zurich. The measure has fallen 6.9 percent from
this year’s high on Feb. 18 as U.S. manufacturing and jobs
reports fueled concern that the recovery in the world’s largest
economy is faltering and as speculation grew that Greece will
default on its debt. The broader Swiss Performance Index also
lost 1.2 percent today.  “Equities are sliding after faltering leading indicators
and general concerns over the near-term macro picture,” said
Christoph Riniker, head of strategy research at  Julius Baer
Group Ltd. (BAER)  in Zurich.  Bernanke said yesterday in Atlanta that monetary stimulus
is still needed to boost a “frustratingly slow” recovery. Even
so, he said growth is likely to pick up as fuel prices moderate
and disruptions of parts supplies ease as factories in  Japan 
recover from an earthquake and tsunami. He gave no indication of
a new round of asset purchases known as quantitative easing.  German  Industrial Production   A report today showed Germany’s industrial production
unexpectedly declined for the first time in four months in
April, led by a drop in construction output. Production fell 0.6
percent from March, when it rose a revised 1.2 percent, the
Economy Ministry in Berlin said.  Logitech dropped 3.4 percent to 10.08 Swiss francs as UBS
reduced its price estimate on the shares to 11.50 francs from
13.50 francs. Clariant slipped 3.6 percent to 17.76 francs.  UBS fell 2.1 percent to 15.32 francs as the Financial Times
reported that the bank plans to raise pay to help recruit and
retain senior employees following a series of departures from
its investment banking unit.  Julius Baer Group Ltd., the 121-year-old wealth manager,
fell 2.3 percent to 34.83 francs and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
Switzerland’s second-biggest lender, dropped 1.5 percent to
34.65 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net  