-- 
Abraaj Captial Is Said to Be in Talks to Buy Stake in Citadel of Egypt

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e ,   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m   a n d   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-06-08T17:26:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/u-a-e-s-abraaj-said-to-be-in-talks-to-buy-into-egypt-scitadel-capital.html
Abraaj Capital Ltd., the Dubai-based
private equity company managing about $6.2 billion, is in talks
with Citadel Capital SAE to buy a stake in the Egyptian firm,
three people with knowledge of the talks said.  The shares of Citadel climbed the most this month, gaining
5.1 percent to 5.95 Egyptian pounds at the 2:30 p.m. close in
Cairo, valuing the company at 3.9 billion Egyptian pounds ($656
million), according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The shares
have tumbled 35 percent this year.  Abraaj hasn’t made an official offer to Cairo-based
Citadel, according to the people, who asked not to be identified
because the talks are private. Abraaj is seeking more than a 25
percent stake in the Egyptian company, one person said. Citadel
Chairman Ahmed Heikal declined to comment when contacted by
Bloomberg News today. A spokesman for Abraaj, speaking on
condition of anonymity in line with company policy, said the
firm had no comment.  “Assuming the news is correct, this is a big deal for
Citadel,” said Ahmed Badr, a Dubai-based analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG, who has an “outperform” rating on the
Egyptian company. “The rise in the stock price shows the market
is expecting Abraaj will buy at a premium.”  Africa  Access  Citadel climbed 20 percent last week amid speculation the
firm had received an offer for its shares at 8 Egyptian pounds.  The firm “has not received a direct offer of acquisition
from any party, nor has it received information from its
shareholders suggesting that a formal offer has been presented
to any of them,” Citadel said in a statement today. “We
further note in this context that as is the nature of private
equity firms, Citadel Capital SAE is frequently in negotiations
to divest or acquire investments.”  The company said on May 31 it had a consolidated loss of
$241.7 million in 2010 because two oil exploration investments
were “underperforming.”  A stake in Citadel would help Abraaj expand into sub-
Saharan Africa. The Egyptian firm’s investments in 15 industries
include a stake Rift Valley Railways Ltd., the operator of the
Kenya-Uganda rail line. It also has investments in  Sudan ,
according to its website.  “Citadel has very interesting assets in Africa and if you
want to get exposure to logistics, transport, consumer products
and agriculture, it becomes an attractive target,” Badr said.  Abraaj’s investments in  Egypt , according to its 2010 annual
report, include Al Borg Laboratories and AgroCorp, an
agriculture company focused on the farming and processing of
artichokes.  Abraaj and investors such as Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris  have said a wave of popular uprisings that has swept the
 Middle East  this year will help create investment opportunities
and stronger economic growth prospects in the long term. The
revolts have toppled the presidents of Egypt and  Tunisia  and
spread to countries including Yemen, Syria, Libya and Bahrain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Mahmoud Kassem in Cairo at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  