-- 
U.K. Lawmaker Pushes for Expanding Newspaper Phone-Hacking Probe

-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 
2011-06-08T18:40:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/u-k-lawmaker-pushes-for-expanding-newspaper-phone-hacking-probe.html
London ’s  Metropolitan Police  should
expand a probe into illegal information-gathering by private
investigators on behalf of U.K. newspapers, a lawmaker and
a lawyer said.  Tom Watson , a Labour lawmaker, said in Parliament today
that police were given information that a private investigator
illegally targeted members of Britain’s royal family, senior
politicians and high-level terrorist informants. Watson said the
investigator is someone other than Glen Mulcaire, a private eye
jailed in 2007 for accessing mobile-phone messages on behalf of
Rupert Murdoch’s News of the World Newspaper.  London attorney  Mark Lewis  said in a phone interview that
he was acting on behalf of the people that made the complaint to
the police over the most recent claims. He declined to name them
citing “some issues relating to national security.”  Police in January opened a probe into alleged criminal
activities at the News of the World newspaper after receiving
“significant new information” from its U.K. parent, News
International. Since then three people who have worked on the
paper have been arrested and police confirmed in a statement
today that they have received more complaints.  The department “can confirm that since January 2011 the
MPS has received a number of allegations regarding breach of
privacy which fall outside the remit of,” its current probe
into the News of the World, the statement said. “These
allegations are currently being considered.”  The Guardian reported that others who may have had their
information compromised included former Prime Minister Tony Blair, the Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  and  Kate
Middleton , the now wife of Prince William.  Daisy Dunlop, a spokeswoman for News International didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment. A person at the BoE’s
media office declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 