-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Chicago District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-06-08T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-chicago-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Seventh District--  Chicago .  Summary. Economic activity in the Seventh District expanded more
slowly in April and May. Growth in  consumer spending  was slower,
while the rate of increase in business spending was steady.
Manufacturing production grew more slowly, and construction was
again subdued. Credit conditions continued to improve. There was
some further pass-through of higher commodity prices to
downstream prices. Planting of corn and soybeans was delayed by
wet and cool weather.  Consumer spending. Consumer spending increased at a slower rate
than during the previous reporting period. Retailers reported
that sales were mostly flat. Higher food and energy prices
caused consumers to make fewer shopping trips and purchase fewer
discretionary items. Auto sales edged up, as higher demand for
passenger cars offset a slight decline in sales of trucks and
SUVs. Auto dealers reported that their inventory levels of small
passenger cars were starting to come under pressure due to
higher than anticipated demand for fuel efficient vehicles and
production disruptions related to the situation in  Japan .
Dealers of Japanese vehicles expect that supply problems will
continue to affect their inventory levels for the remainder of
the year. These supply constraints were noted to be causing used
car prices to rise, as well as benefitting passenger vehicle
sales of the Detroit automakers. Quality improvements were also
said to have put the Detroit 3 in a better competitive position.  Business spending. Business spending increased at a steady pace
in April and May. Inventories were little changed on balance.
However, a few manufacturers in the  auto industry  said they had
increased inventories to guard against potential future supply
disruptions stemming from the situation in Japan. Contacts
indicated that  capital expenditures  were proceeding as planned,
with some manufacturers reporting a slight increase in capacity.
There also was a pick-up in merger and acquisition activity in
the manufacturing sector. Labor market conditions improved with
continued strength in manufacturing, where contacts again cited
a shortage of qualified applicants for highly skilled trades. A
large staffing firm reported that billable hours ticked up and
permanent placement activity continued to increase. However,
demand for temporary workers softened in some regional labor
markets and remained slow in some industries, such as finance.  Construction/real estate. Construction activity was again
subdued in April and May. Single-family  home construction 
continued to be constrained by the overhang of distressed
properties in the resale market. However, existing home sales
picked up in parts of the District, lowering the inventory of
unsold homes to a degree. In the multifamily sector, the rental
market continued to improve. Residential rents rose further, and
credit has become increasingly more available for the purchase
of apartment buildings. With minimal single-family and condo
development planned in the District, contacts expect to see an
increase in the construction of apartments in the near future.
Nonresidential construction edged up with stronger demand from
the automotive industry, small retail projects, and renovation.
Contacts indicated that while more private sector building
projects are coming up for bid, stiff competition continues to
put downward pressure on pricing. Furthermore, while public
sector projects remain a source of strength, they are becoming
smaller. Commercial real estate conditions were little changed,
with vacancy rates steady and landlords keeping commercial rents
low to maintain occupancy at existing levels.  Manufacturing. Manufacturing production growth slowed from the
previous reporting period, although contacts expected the recent
slowdown would be temporary with conditions expected to rebound
in the coming months. Capacity utilization in the  steel industry 
was only marginally lower; and while other manufacturers of
industrial metals noted a softening in orders for second quarter
delivery, several also indicated that order books for third
quarter delivery were more positive. A contact speculated that
the recent volatility in industrial metals prices was leading
some customers to delay orders, expecting lower surcharges in
the coming months and to avoid getting caught holding inventory
at elevated prices. Manufacturers of construction materials and
household goods also reported a decline in activity. In contrast,
orders for heavy trucks, agricultural and construction equipment
were up. Fleet replacement and robust activity in oil and gas
extraction were cited as reasons for the continued strength in
demand for heavy equipment. Supply chain disruptions reduced
activity in the automotive sector, but mostly for the Japanese
automakers and their suppliers. District automakers were able to
avoid the most severe dislocations by reallocating parts to
vehicles that are in high demand and implementing contingency
plans for alternative supply sources. Contacts indicated that
while it remains to be seen how effective these measures will be
over an extended period, these supply chain adjustments were
occurring at a faster rate than previously expected. In addition,
a contact noted that some automakers and their suppliers are
moving planned summer shutdowns forward into June to give supply
chains time to repair and thus be in better position for a ramp
up in production in the third quarter.  Banking/finance. Credit conditions continued to improve in April
and May. Corporate funding costs for a number of large firms in
the District decreased, and contacts noted that liquidity in
corporate credit markets remains ample. Banking contacts
reported a slight increase in business loan demand. Although
much of this continued to be refinancing of existing debt,
contacts noted that they were starting to see more new
commercial and industrial loans in the pipeline. Credit
availability, however, remained an issue for some small business
borrowers. A contact noted that larger banks have recently begun
to return to small business lending, but that the loan capacity
of community banks who have traditionally serviced this segment
is still impaired. Outside of banking, conditions in the
municipal  bond market  improved and there was an increase in
investment activity by  hedge funds , venture capital firms and
other forms of private equity.  Prices/costs. Cost pressures increased in April before subsiding
some in May. Food and energy prices ended the period mostly
lower, as did prices for steel, copper, and other industrial
metals. Despite the recent declines, commodity prices remain
elevated, and surcharges for fuel, metals, and other commodities
increased significantly during the reporting period. Lead times
also continued to be longer than normal, and shortages of some
raw materials were reported. Pass-through of higher costs to
prices further downstream remained moderate. Retailers reported
that they were unable to pass along much of the recent increase
in wholesale prices; and in many cases, were trying to
compensate for the impact of higher food and energy prices on
consumer budgets by increasing promotions and discounts. Retail
contacts also noted that margins were tight, particularly for
grocery stores, and further increases in costs would likely need
to be passed along. Wage pressures remained moderate.  Agriculture. Corn and soybean planting lagged the pace of last
spring in the District, as excess precipitation and cool
temperatures slowed field work. Planting conditions were best in
 Iowa  and  Illinois , where planted acres had caught up to five-
year averages after a slow start. The emergence of corn and
soybean plants was behind normal, except in Iowa. The poor start
to the growing season reduces the yield potential of the
District corn crop. Even so, there is still the chance of a very
large crop. Agricultural commodity markets were choppy during
the reporting period. After peaking earlier this year, corn,
soybean, and wheat prices ended down. Cattle and milk prices
edged lower, while hog prices edged up. 