-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Cleveland District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-06-08T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-cleveland-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Fourth District--  Cleveland .  Business activity in the Fourth District continued to expand at
a modest pace since our last report. Manufacturers reported a
slight rise in production, though several noted a softening in
market conditions. Freight transport volume increased for a
broad range of manufactured goods. Information received from
retailers remained positive, while auto dealers experienced a
slight downturn in sales. Energy producers noted little change
in output. New home construction was sluggish, whereas
nonresidential building is picking up some. The demand for
business credit rose slightly, and activity in  consumer lending 
was mixed. Rising payrolls were mainly limited to the
manufacturing sector. Staffing-firm representatives noted
moderate growth in the number of new job openings, with
vacancies concentrated in health care and manufacturing. Wage
pressures are largely contained. Reports of elevated prices for
commodities, steel, fuel, and other raw materials were common.
As a result, manufacturers, retailers, and freight carriers
passed through some of these higher input prices to their
customers.  Manufacturing. Reports from District factories indicate that
production was stable or slightly up during the past six weeks,
with a moderate rise in backlogs. A majority of our contacts
maintain a favorable outlook, some of which was attributed to
strength in offshore markets. However, several manufacturers
said that market conditions are beginning to soften. Many steel
producers and service centers reported that the rise in shipping
volume seen in the first quarter is beginning to taper off, due
in part to pricing issues and declines in consumer demand.
Shipments are being driven by capital goods, autos, and energy-
related industries. They anticipate volume remaining at current
levels until a seasonal slowdown, which typically occurs during
the third quarter. District auto production dropped sharply
during April on a month-over-month and year-over-year basis.
Most of the decline was due to supply disruptions caused by
events in  Japan .  Manufacturers remain committed to raising capital outlays in the
upcoming months relative to year-ago levels. Nonetheless, about
a third of our contacts reported that they are delaying the
start of some projects. Capacity utilization rates are below
what is considered normal for a majority of manufacturers.
Prices for metal and agricultural commodities, steel, and
petroleum-based products remain elevated. Most of our contacts
reported passing through some of these higher input prices to
their customers. A few producers commented that steel and scrap
prices have peaked and are expected to begin falling back.
Manufacturers continued hiring at a modest pace, with most new
hires being higher-skilled workers. Several contacts also noted
a slight increase in wage pressures.  Real Estate. New  home construction  remains at a very low level,
with purchases mainly in the move-up buyer categories. The
uptick in traffic and sales noted in our last report was not
sustained. Two of our contacts told us that more interest exists
in multi-family construction than single-family. Home builders
do not expect the market to turn around any time soon, which
they attributed to tight credit, a glut of houses on the market,
and the fact it currently costs more per square foot to build a
new house than to buy an existing house. List prices and
discounting of new homes held steady, while some upward pressure
on the cost of building materials was reported. Several builders
said they want to construct more spec houses, but banks are
unwilling to provide financing. Subcontractors are doing
somewhat better due to facing less competition and taking on
additional remodeling work. General contractors continue to work
with lean crews, and no hiring is expected in the near term.
Information on nonresidential construction varied widely.
However, one aspect our contacts agreed on was a moderate
improvement in inquiries. Activity is being driven by industrial
projects and high-end projects (greater than $100 million) that
are now in the construction phase, after several years of
planning. We heard reports of a pullback in healthcare-related
work. A majority of our contacts expect that activity will
slowly improve as the year progresses. Financing is more readily
available if developers are willing to increase their equity
share. We heard reports of increased prices for building
materials, particularly for steel. One contact noted that
materials suppliers are holding back price increases due to a
lack of demand. Contractors are absorbing rising materials
prices in their margins. General contractors held payrolls
steady, and they expect little, if any, new permanent hiring in
the upcoming months.  Consumer Spending . Reports from retailers indicate that sales
for the period from early April through mid-May rose in the low
to mid-single digits and were generally on or ahead of plan.
However, some of the increase was attributed to the rise in
gasoline and food prices. Transactions were mostly higher
relative to year-ago levels. Many of our contacts noted that
rising sales included discretionary items. Looking forward,
retailers are cautiously optimistic about third-quarter sales.
We continue to hear about rising vendor prices, although they
were mainly limited to food- and fuel-related products.
Retailers passed through some of the increases to consumers.
Reports on profit margins were mixed, with declines taken
primarily by grocers. Capital outlays remain on plan and are
slightly higher than year-ago levels. No change in payrolls is
expected at existing stores.  Auto dealers reported that new-vehicle sales showed a slight
downturn during April and early May. March sales were given a
big boost due to regional auto shows. On a year-over-year basis,
vehicle purchases increased for almost all of our contacts.
Demand for smaller, fuel efficient cars continues to rise, while
inventories were characterized as somewhat low by most dealers
and may be hurting sales. Dealers are cautious in their outlook
due to high gas prices and concern over the availability of
vehicles with a Japanese nameplate. Demand for used cars is
fairly strong, especially those that are fuel efficient. However,
scarce inventory is contributing to rising prices. Credit
availability and pricing have improved, and the use of leasing
as a credit alternative is growing. Automakers are now putting
in place timetables for dealers to complete reimaging and
expansion of their facilities. The only roadblock from the
dealers’ perspective is the ability to obtain financing. Most
auto dealers are beginning to hire on a selective basis.  Banking. Demand for business loans was stable or grew at a
modest pace. Industries driving loan demand were broad-based,
with a few of our contacts noting a pick up in construction loan
requests for multi-family dwellings. On the consumer side,
demand for home equity lines of credit and vehicle purchases
(direct and indirect) remains strong, while activity in other
installment loan categories was weak.  Interest rates  for
business and consumer credit were stable, but competitive. Half
of our contacts noted an uptick in the residential mortgage
market, with activity equally distributed between refinancing
and new purchases. Overall core deposits continue to grow,
especially in demand accounts. The credit quality of business
and consumer applicants was characterized as steady or improving.
Delinquency rates were stable or trending down across loan
portfolios, with the exception of real estate. Staffing levels
have shown little change during the past few weeks, and about
half of our respondents said that they expect some selective
hiring to occur during 2011.  Energy. Reports indicate that oil and natural gas drilling and
production held steady during the past six weeks, with little
change expected in the near term. Wellhead prices paid to
independent producers were flat for natural gas and continued on
a modest upward trend for oil. Coal production was stable to
moderately lower since our last report, with little change
anticipated for the remainder of the year. Spot prices for coal,
especially metallurgical, are moving higher, which was
attributed in part to a rise in transportation costs. We heard
several reports of increased prices for  diesel fuel , equipment,
parts, and materials used in coal production. Severe spring
weather in the Midwest is interfering with coal shipments to
utilities and exports from  New Orleans . Energy payrolls are
expected to remain at current levels.  Transportation. Freight transport executives reported that
shipping volume expanded for a broad range of manufactured goods,
and they expect markets will continue to grow in the upcoming
months. Several contacts told us that they are attempting to
raise their shipping prices as customer contracts come up for
renewal, and they are seeing a slight bottom-line improvement.
The price for diesel fuel remains elevated, with most of the
increase being passed through to customers via surcharges. We
also heard several reports about rising costs associated with
recent changes in environmental and federal safety regulations.
Capital outlays are expected to accelerate during 2011, if
financing can be obtained. Spending will be mainly for
replacement, although some additions to capacity have been
announced. Hiring has been for driver replacement, seasonal work,
and maintenance mechanics. Wage pressures are emerging due to a
tightening of the driver pool. 