-- 
U.S. Senate Rejects Amendment to Delay Debit Swipe Fee Rule

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-06-08T23:40:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/u-s-senate-rejects-delay-of-fed-s-debit-card-swipe-fee-caps-in-54-45-vote.html
The  U.S. Senate  rejected a plan
backed by large banks for a six-month delay in a Federal Reserve
rule to cap the debit-card swipe fees set by  Visa Inc. (V)  and
 MasterCard Inc. (MA)   Senators led by  Richard Durbin , the Illinois Democrat who
pushed to include the fee caps in the Dodd-Frank Act, turned
back the proposed delay in a 54-45 vote today that left the
amendment six short of the 60 needed for approval.  Visa and MasterCard, the world’s biggest payment networks,
dropped the most since Dec. 16 after the vote, before rebounding
by the end of trading. Visa rose to $76.75 by 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading, after falling as low as
$74.37. MasterCard, which dropped as low as $258.34, closed the
day at $269.96. Shares of U.S. banks slipped.  The caps proposed by the Fed in December and scheduled to
take effect July 21 would cut revenue by about $12 billion a
year at lenders including  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  In the most extensive lobbying fight to
arise from Dodd-Frank, the banks pushed to roll back or delay
the Fed rule, battling efforts by  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and
 Target Corp. (TGT) , who would pay less under the caps.  “We should let the Federal Reserve issue this rule,”
Durbin said before the vote. “If more needs to be done, I’m on
board, but the notion that we can’t even trust the Federal
Reserve to come up for a rule on this is just plain unfair.”  Retailers Happy  Visa and MasterCard establish the swipe fees, or
 interchange , and pass the money to card-issuing banks. The
central bank has proposed capping the fees at 12 cents a
transaction, replacing a formula that averages 1.14 percent of
the purchase price.  Barbara Hagenbaugh , spokeswoman for the Fed,
declined to comment after the vote.  Durbin and his supporters have said reducing the fees and
increasing competition in the debit-card market would cut down
on one of the largest monthly expenses for many retailers. The
savings, Durbin and retailers say, will be passed to consumers.  “These bipartisan reforms will bring meaningful relief to
millions of merchants and consumers,” Sandy Kennedy, president
of the Retail Industry Leaders Association, said in a statement
after the vote. “With this distraction now behind us, retailers
await the Federal Reserve’s final rules so they can begin
implementing these reforms and saving consumers money.”  Banks and payment networks have said the fees are necessary
to maintain the infrastructure and technology of a system that
has brought more revenue to retailers than they have been
charged.  ‘Stunning’ Vote  “It is stunning that the Senate chose to ignore every
major banking regulator who warned that this rule could harm
community banks and  credit unions  -- and possibly even result in
bank failures at a time when our country can least afford it,”
said Trish Wexler, a spokeswoman for the Electronic Payments
Coalition, a group whose members include JPMorgan and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)   The Senate action marks the end of the fight between Durbin
and Senator Jon Tester, a Montana Democrat, which began when
Tester and Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican, proposed
a two-year delay in March. Tester in May cut his proposed delay
to 15 months in search of the 60 votes needed for Senate
passage. Durbin, the Senate’s No. 2 Democrat, had vowed to block
efforts to remove or delay the rule.  Today’s vote split senior Democrats, with Senate Majority
Leader Harry Reid of Nevada siding with Durbin and Banking
Committee Chairman Tim Johnson of South Dakota backing the
Tester-Corker proposal. Others were caught in between a vote to
support Durbin during last year’s debate and a desire to support
the delay, Corker told reporters after the vote.  Political Worry  “Some of the folks were worried, I think, politically,”
Corker said. “Even though they knew this policy was right, they
were worried about voters back home not understanding their vote
when they had voted for Durbin the first time.”  With the public comment period for the rule set to end in
the next few weeks and the July 21 implementation date coming
up, Corker said there was little that can be done to stop the
caps from taking effect.  “I think, for a period of time, the water’s sort of under
the bridge,” he said.  MasterCard asked the Fed to reconsider the details of the
rule before making it final.  “MasterCard calls on the  Federal Reserve  to carefully
consider the thousands of submitted comments raising concerns
for the unintended consequences of the proposed debit
interchange price control,” Noah J. Hanft, the company’s
general counsel, said in a statement.  Visa’s Plans  Visa said it will provide investors more details about the
company’s plans after it reviews the final rules.  “The long-term impact of the Dodd-Frank debit provisions
on Visa will be manageable,” Chief Executive Officer Joseph W. Saunders said in a statement. “We have spent the past year
preparing for all potential outcomes, and we have plans in place
to evolve our U.S. debit strategy.”  Tien-tsin Huang, an analyst at JPMorgan, said shares of the
payment networks may rally because the “outcome is not a
surprise” and he advised clients to buy.  The vote “could ironically be a fine outcome for both
stocks in need of certainty sooner rather than later,” Huang
said in a research note after the vote.  Bernanke, Bair  The effort in Congress to reconsider the rule had been
bolstered by regulators. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair  questioned
a part of the law that exempts banks and credit unions with less
than $10 billion in assets, saying it might harm smaller card
issuers. Acting Comptroller of the Currency  John Walsh  sent a
March 4 letter to the Fed calling the proposal “unnecessarily
narrow.”  In all, 12 senators who voted to include the swipe-fee
provision in Dodd-Frank last year backed the delay today. That
wasn’t enough to get the measure to 60 votes.  Senator  Roger Wicker , a Mississippi Republican who had
backed the original Durbin plan, said he voted for the delay
today because “the amendment has changed and the Durbin
language has changed.”  “I thought it was a reasonable compromise, on balance, and
a very close call,” Wicker said.  The debit caps could still be derailed before July 21. The
St. Louis-based U.S. 8th Circuit Court of Appeals is scheduled
to hear arguments next week in a case filed by  TCF Financial
Corp. (TCB)  The Wayzata, Minnesota-based bank has appealed a lower
court ruling that denied the lender’s request for an order
suspending the caps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  