-- 
U.S., China, India Favorites for Green M&A, KPMG Survey Shows

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-06-08T08:16:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/u-s-china-india-favorites-for-green-m-a-kpmg-survey-shows.html
The  United States ,  China  and  India 
are likely to attract the most merger and acquisition interest
in clean energy this year, according to a survey by  KPMG  LLP.  Deals are expected to outpace previous years as more
financing options, rising oil prices and  Japan ’s nuclear crisis
shifts interest to the renewable energy industry, the report
said. Mergers and acquisitions doubled in the first quarter to a
record $11.2 billion from a year earlier, said the report, e-
mailed to Bloomberg News and to be released today.  “Higher competition for targets is expected to push up
global valuations,” Richard Rekhy, head of advisory services at
KPMG’s India unit, said of the anticipated rise in deals.  Transactions valued at up to $500 million may generate the
most interest with biomass and solar power likely to be the most
attractive buyout targets, the consultant’s report said.  Of 500 global executives, investors, lenders and advisers
from renewable- energy industry  surveyed by KPMG, 53 percent said
the U.S. would be the top target for deals this year. China rose
to second from fifth place in last year’s survey with 38
percent. India,  Germany  and the  United Kingdom  followed.  Double the number of Asian respondents intend to invest in
China and India than those planning to invest in  Europe , the
survey showed. That means debt-laden European nations won’t be
able to count on overseas investment to plug renewable-energy
funding gaps, it said.  Asian manufacturers and pension funds are expected to
emerge as the newest buyers, KPMG said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 