-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: San Francisco District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-06-08T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-san-francisco-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Twelfth District--  San Francisco   Twelfth District economic activity continued to expand at a
moderate pace during the reporting period of late April through
the end of May. Price increases for final goods and services
remained limited, and upward pressures on wages were subdued on
balance. Sales of retail items rose further, while demand for
business and consumer services was mixed. District manufacturing
activity also was mixed but appeared to expand overall.
Agricultural producers reported strong sales, and extraction
activity rose for providers of natural resources used for energy
production. Activity in District housing markets remained
lackluster, while demand for commercial real estate showed signs
of improvement. Contacts from financial institutions reported
further increases in loan demand.  Wages and Prices  Price inflation was limited for most final goods and services
during the reporting period, with the notable exceptions of food
and gasoline. Although the prices of a wide range of commodities
and raw materials remained elevated, the pass-through to final
prices has been limited. For most retail goods and services,
tepid demand and robust competition continued to hold down final
prices.  Upward wage pressures were quite modest in general. Although
hiring activity has picked up, high unemployment and ample labor
availability continued to limit the pace of overall compensation
gains throughout the District. The primary exception continued
to be workers with specialized technical skills, particularly
engineers and specialists in  information technology , for whom
wage gains remained significant in several parts of the District.
Retail Trade and Services  Retail sales rose further on balance. Although consumers’ focus
on necessities continued, the reports noted a slight shift back
toward discretionary spending. Modest improvements in sales were
reported for discount chains as well as for traditional
department stores, and inventories generally were at or near
desired levels given the pace of sales, enabling many retailers
to reduce their reliance on promotional activities. For
retailers of big-ticket items such as major appliances and
furniture, however, sales remained somewhat weak. Similarly,
sales were largely flat for grocers. Demand for new automobiles
continued to strengthen, although sales growth was restrained
somewhat by high fuel prices and shortages of new Japanese-made
vehicles associated with the recent natural disaster in that
country. The availability of used vehicles tightened further,
primarily for imported models, which has propped up their sale
prices and trade-in values.  Demand for business and consumer services was mixed. Providers
of professional services such as legal and accounting reported
little change in activity since the prior reporting period.
Sales growth remained strong in the Internet and digital media
sectors, and demand for electricity by businesses and households
expanded further. Activity waned somewhat for providers of
transportation services, with contacts noting a slowdown in
cargo traffic at Southern California seaports. Health-care
providers noted further moderation in the demand for their
services. Travel activity continued to improve in much of the
District, reflecting growth in business travel as well as
tourism.  Manufacturing District manufacturing activity posted further net
gains during the reporting period of late April through the end
of May. Manufacturers of semiconductors and other technology
products reported continued growth in new orders and sales as
well as high levels of capacity utilization, with few supply
constraints arising from the crisis in  Japan . Activity fell
slightly for metal fabricators, as demand growth eased in the
wake of strong gains in preceding months. Production rates
remained solid for makers of commercial aircraft and parts, with
modest growth in new orders adding to an existing order backlog.
Capacity utilization rates dropped a bit for petroleum refiners,
as domestic demand for gasoline stalled in response to elevated
prices. Reports from food and beverage manufacturers indicated
that demand for their products was largely stable or up somewhat.  Agriculture and Resource-related Industries  Sales of agricultural products were robust, and extraction
activity of natural resources used for energy production
expanded further. Orders and sales continued to grow for a wide
variety of crop and livestock products. However, contacts noted
some supply constraints: input costs have risen overall, and
unseasonably cold weather delayed the development of some crops
in  California  and the Pacific Northwest. Demand for natural gas
continued to expand, propelled in part by cold spring weather,
and oil extraction activity grew further in response to rising
overseas demand.  Real Estate and Construction  Demand in District residential real estate markets was largely
unchanged at very low levels, while conditions improved slightly
in commercial real estate markets. The pace of sales for new and
existing homes in the District continued to be very weak on net,
with distressed properties and entry-level homes reportedly
dominating the sales mix in some areas. As a result, new  home
construction  remained moribund and  home prices  were stable to
down. By contrast, conditions continued to be stronger in
apartment markets, particularly in the  Seattle  area: rental
rates there reportedly are growing at an annual rate of 10 to 15
percent, spurring significant increases in construction activity.
Vacancy rates for office and industrial space stayed elevated
throughout the District, but further improvements in demand were
noted for several major markets. This was particularly the case
in the San Francisco Bay Area and Seattle, with revived
developer interest in new construction reported for the latter
area.  Financial Institutions  Reports from District banking contacts indicated that loan
demand and overall credit quality rose modestly since the last
reporting period. Businesses in some areas have exhibited a
slight increase in their willingness to engage in expansionary
 capital spending , which caused demand for commercial and
industrial loans to rise. Demand for  consumer credit  remained
largely stable. Despite improvements in overall  credit quality ,
lending standards remained relatively restrictive for many types
of consumer and business loans. However, contacts reported that
competition among lenders to extend credit to well-qualified
small and medium sized businesses has continued to intensify,
placing downward pressure on rates and fees. Contacts also
pointed to continued growth in venture capital financing
activity, driven primarily by investments in the Internet and
digital media sectors. 