-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Philadelphia District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-06-08T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-philadelphia-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Third District-- Philadelphia.  Business activity in the Third District has improved overall
since the last  Beige Book , although the pace has softened.
Manufacturers reported increases in shipments and new orders in
May, although at a much slower pace than the past two months.
Retailers posted slight year-over-year sales increases in May.
Motor vehicle dealers reported a slowdown in sales during May
compared with the first four months of the year. Third District
banks reported little overall change in loan volume outstanding,
on balance, since the last Beige Book. Residential real estate
agents said sales have increased seasonally, but house prices
have been flat to down. Contacts in the commercial real estate
sector said that market conditions have shown little change
since the first quarter. Service-sector firms reported modest
increases in activity. Business contacts reported further price
increases for inputs as they did in the previous Beige Book.
There have been some retail price increases, and more firms in a
range of sectors have implemented fuel surcharges.  Expectations among Third District business contacts are mostly
for slow growth. Manufacturers forecast a modest rise in
shipments and orders during the next six months. Retailers
expect sales to advance slowly on a year-over-year basis. Auto
dealers say the outlook is uncertain. Bankers expect only slight
growth in lending. Contacts in residential real estate expect
moderate seasonal gains in sales, but they expect sales for this
year as a whole to be about the same as sales last year.
Contacts in commercial real estate expect conditions to improve
slowly, with markets firming around the end of the year.
Service-sector companies expect continued slow growth.  Manufacturing  Reports of widespread, robust demand growth for manufactured
products as of the last Beige Book gave way to two months of
easing in the breadth and pace of recovery. Less than 30 percent
of Third District manufacturers reported increases in shipments
and orders in May -- slipping from over 50 percent since the
last Beige Book. Among key manufacturing sectors in the Third
District, the number reporting increases of both shipments and
orders narrowed to 7 from 13 since the last Beige Book. The
strongest reports of orders came from producers of chemicals;
food; stone, clay, and glass; and fabricated metal products.
Since the last Beige Book, declines in orders broadened from
producers of apparel and rubber products to include producers of
electronic equipment and instruments. Failure to pass a
multiyear transportation infrastructure reauthorization bill and
the ongoing real estate slump were cited by five different
manufacturing sectors as hampering the recovery.  Third District manufacturers remain mostly positive about
business conditions over the next six months; however, the
percent of firms expecting increases fell off sharply since the
last Beige Book, from 66 percent to 36 percent. Among the firms
contacted in May, about 38 percent expect increases in new
orders and shipments, while about 20 percent expect decreases. A
little uncertainty has crept back into manufacturers’
expectations, with several contacts citing “swings” in activity.
Capital spending plans over a six-month planning horizon have
changed little since the last Beige Book, with about one-third
of firms projecting increases.  Retail  Third District retailers generally reported small year-over-year
increases in sales in May, although results varied by store type.
Discount stores and some luxury goods retailers posted better
increases than mid-price retailers and department stores.
Retailers said sales of spring apparel have been held back by
cool, rainy weather. Several merchants said that high gasoline
prices were deterring shopping trips and constraining consumers’
discretionary buying. Looking ahead, store executives expect
just slow growth in sales. One merchant’s comment expressed the
general opinion: “The consumer is responding to value. Only
confidence in the job situation will prompt broader buying.”  Third District auto dealers generally reported that sales slowed
in May from the pace set from January through April. Some
dealers said they were facing supply constraints resulting from
the interruption of Japanese vehicle and parts production, and
some dealers said demand has slowed as consumers reconsider
model preferences in response to higher gasoline prices. Dealers
are uncertain of the future course of sales; most said the sales
rate going forward will be more sensitive to gasoline prices and
 consumer confidence  than it had been earlier in the year.  Finance  Third District banks contacted in May gave mixed reports on loan
volume outstanding. Some posted increases in consumer and
business loans, but others reported drops in these categories
since the last Beige Book. On balance, total credit extended by
banks in the region has been flat in recent weeks. Although some
bankers have had recent increases in loan demand from small and
medium businesses, most said demand for credit from this sector
has been weak. “Loan demand hasn’t moved at all,” one said, even
as competition among lenders has increased. Most of the banks
surveyed in May indicated that  credit quality  has been improving,
although some said the pace of improvement has been slow.
Looking ahead, the general view among the region’s bankers is
that loan demand will move up slightly, at best, in the near
future.  Real Estate and Construction  Residential real estate activity has picked up since the
previous Beige Book in most parts of the Third District,
according to residential real estate agents contacted for this
report. Agents continued to note that the sales pace has been
relatively stronger for middle- and lowprice homes and weaker
for high-price homes. Agents attributed the improved sales pace
to the usual seasonal gain and buyers’ concern that mortgage
loan rates are likely to increase in the future. Looking ahead,
residential real estate agents expect sales for this year as a
whole to be level with last year. An agent who remarked that “we
are off the bottom, but it’s going to be a slow comeback”
expressed a common opinion. Residential agents generally
reported flat to slightly falling  house prices  for existing
homes. New homebuilders indicated that these lower existing home
sales prices further reduced their customer traffic in May.
While they see more committed buyers among the traffic, overall
demand for new homes remains flat.  Commercial and industrial market conditions in the Third
District have shown little change since the previous Beige Book,
according to area nonresidential real estate contacts, although
some noted that office vacancy rates have edged down slightly in
some areas. Rents have been steady in most areas, and
concessions remain common. Contacts in commercial real estate
reported that demand for space in Class A office buildings has
strengthened relative to Class B space as local companies
relocate upon lease expirations. “Companies are trading up for
higher quality,” one contact said. This trend is expected to
continue for the rest of this year, and any reduction in vacancy
rates for less desirable buildings is expected to lag the modest
decline in Class A vacancy rates that commercial real estate
agents forecast for the balance of 2011. Industrial rents have
been flat, but some contacts expect them to rise toward the end
of the year as demand for space grows in the absence of new
supply.  Services  Third District service-sector firms contacted for this report
generally described demand for their services as growing
modestly. Business-service firms noted some increased activity
as a result of both greater usage by current clients and demand
from new client companies. An executive at a business-service
firm said, “Our activity in cyclical sectors is starting to
improve.” Contacts in the transportation sector reported some
recent easing in the slow, steady growth rate that held for the
first four months of the year. Contacts in engineering and
architectural services reported slight gains in current activity
and a somewhat stronger upturn in inquiries. Most of the
service-sector firms polled in May expect growth to continue at
around its recent pace.  Prices and Wages  Since the previous Beige Book, nearly half of all manufacturers
reported rising factor prices, especially for energy and
commodities, but less than half of those firms are able to pass
costs through to their customers. However, imposition of fuel
surcharges by service firms in the region has increased.
Retailers generally indicated that selling prices have been
steady, except for food products and some petroleum-based
products and imports. Retailers noted that consumers continue to
favor lower price-point merchandise, and stores are continuing
to alter merchandise selection to include more of those items.  Business firms in the region reported mostly steady wages since
the last Beige Book. Reports on nonwage employment costs varied;
some firms indicated that benefits costs, primarily for health
insurance, have been stable, but others indicated that they have
had increases ranging up to 10 percent or more compared with a
year ago. 