-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Dallas District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-06-08T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-dallas-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s eleventh District-- Dallas .  The Eleventh District economy expanded at an accelerated pace
over the past six weeks. In particular, energy sector
respondents noted increased activity. Sectors that had
previously reported weak demand, including accounting, legal and
financial services--as well as the construction sector--noted
improvement since the last report. Price pressures remain
elevated, and more firms expect to add to payrolls in coming
months.  Prices Price pressures remain elevated, according to most
responding firms in the Eleventh District. Many manufacturers
said they had raised prices since the last report, but not
enough to offset raw material cost increases, leaving margins
squeezed. Several responding firms said price increases were
becoming necessary to cover previous upticks in fuel, freight
and or raw materials prices. Most construction-related
manufacturing firms either planned or had implemented selling
price increases; and construction firms expected cost increases
to stick, noting producers of construction-related products
could no longer absorb higher energy and freight costs. Several
service sector companies reported increased ability to raise
prices during the past six weeks. Most said the increases were
necessary to cover previous increases in fuel, freight and/or
raw materials prices. Higher demand for accounting-advisory
services has resulted in price increases. Agricultural contacts
said crop prices had fallen slightly but remain at relatively
high levels. Retailers said prices increased modestly over the
past six weeks, and most expected their selling prices to remain
elevated due to increases in input prices and transportation
costs.  The price of crude oil stayed over $105 per barrel for much of
April before falling back under $100 in mid-May. Gasoline prices
remained elevated during the reporting period due to concerns
about refinery flooding along the  Mississippi , according to
contacts. Natural  gas prices  remained low, in a range between
$4.15 to $4.30 per Mcf. Since the last report, prices increased
at a strong pace for many important petrochemical products.  Labor Market Employment levels rose or held steady at most
responding firms. There were increased reports of hiring
activity compared with the previous reporting period. Most
staffing firms noted strong demand at stable levels. Contacts in
financial services, auto sales, construction and related
materials, and transportation manufacturing reported hiring
increases. Some high-tech manufacturers noted an increase in
employment for skilled workers. Wage pressures were slightly
higher, with increases reported by some accounting and finance
firms. Moreover, high-tech respondents noted compensation was
increasing due to the return of bonuses that had been
temporarily halted during the recession.  Manufacturing Most construction-related manufacturers noted a
pick-up in demand since the last report. Some of the uptick was
seasonal and expected, but several contacts said that it was
difficult to separate out seasonal demand from improved business
conditions. Public projects still account for a large share of
orders, but contacts said demand had increased because of an
acceleration in private projects such as apartment and
commercial buildings. The one exception was the lumber industry,
where responses mostly reflected weaker conditions over the past
six weeks.  Respondents in high-tech manufacturing said sales and orders
remain strong overall, but demand was mixed. One source of
weakening demand was the ripple effects of the natural disaster
in northern  Japan  as shortages of parts fed into slowdowns in
demand for complementary parts. Several respondents noted a
broad pickup in consumer demand from  India  and  China  and, within
the US, an increase in demand for products such as 3-D
televisions, tablets and smart phones. Contacts also reported an
increase in orders for semiconductors due to a pickup in demand
from the industrial, medical and auto sectors.  Reports from most paper manufacturers reflected stable to
improved orders stemming from broad-based economic strengthening.
Transportation manufacturing firms said orders were strong and
several said demand had risen slightly since the last report.
Respondents in the  food industry  said sales continued to
increase at a steady pace over the past six weeks and outlooks
remained positive.  Petrochemical firms said supplies were very tight, in part due
to restricted capacity caused by unplanned domestic plant
outages, as well as reduced production in or near the Japanese
earthquake zone. Demand remains strong for most products, and
prices are rising. High profits and strong margins for ethylene
producers have led to announcements of several new plants and
expansions in the  Gulf Coast  and elsewhere. Refiners reported
extremely strong profit margins, and said domestic gasoline
inventories were near the bottom of the normal range.  Retail Sales Retail activity increased moderately over the
reporting period. Looking at March and April and smoothing out
fluctuations due to the Easter holiday, demand has increased in
the low- to mid-single digits over the prior year. Some contacts
mentioned gasoline prices as a concern but the effects of
elevated prices have been limited thus far. Texas continues to
perform above the national average, according to one large
retailer, and the outlook for 2011 remains positive.  Automobile sales continue to improve, but inventories will
likely be thin in coming months due to the effects of the
tsunami on Japanese manufacturers supply chains. Contacts expect
demand to continue improving at a modest pace throughout 2011.  Non-financial Services Staffing firms reported growth in orders
has leveled off or slowed slightly since the last report,
although demand remains strong, particularly from the energy,
healthcare, insurance and banking sectors. Outlooks are positive,
and contacts expect demand to remain stable through year-end.
Demand for accounting services increased since the last report,
as is typical for this time of year. Improved demand has helped
firms raise fees for advisory services. Legal firms noted mostly
steady demand, with some strength in corporate, intellectual
property litigation, and real estate services.  Reports from transportation services contacts were mostly
positive. Intermodal transportation firms noted an increase in
cargo volumes during the reporting period. Railroad shipments
rose moderately, with particularly strong volume growth in
grains, metals, petroleum and chemical products. Container trade
volumes declined but were up from year-ago levels. Growth in
small parcel shipments accelerated during the reporting period
buoyed by demand from the wholesale trade and retail sectors.
Airline traffic held steady over the past six weeks. Demand for
travel within the US and to  Latin America  was solid, but load
factors for international flights to and from the Pacific region
remained weak. Contacts expect modest improvement in airline
demand and revenue this year.  Financial Services Financial firms reported steady overall loan
demand. Large banks with a national footprint reported some
pickup in commercial and industrial loan demand with increased
corporate activity, and commercial real estate (CRE) activity
has shown recent improvement as well. Regional banks noted that
loan demand remains pretty flat, although optimism persists for
pockets of homebuilding and some CRE lending across the state.
Demand for auto and consumer loans declined. Contacts continue
to note that loan pricing remains aggressive amidst a highly
competitive lending landscape. Outlooks are generally positive
in light of better outstanding loan quality and continued slow
improvement in lending conditions. Construction and Real Estate
Eleventh District housing contacts said sales remain at low
levels, but optimism has increased along with better traffic.
Sales are expected to improve in the second half of 2011. As
reported in previous reports, sales in the higher price points
continue to improve. Apartment demand continues to accelerate,
and rents have edged up since the last report.  Private nonresidential demand has improved. Leasing activity is
growing and there are reports that industrial and office
construction are increasing from very low levels. Sales of
commercial buildings are also picking up across the District.
Energy Drilling activity is very strong and growing, according
to responding firms in the  energy industry . A majority of wells
being drilled in the  United States  are directed to oil for the
first time since May 1995. Contacts noted Texas is leading the
expansion of domestic activity, with strong activity in the
Permian basin and Eagle Ford Shale. While the majority of
activity is land-based, work is being re-permitted in the  Gulf
of Mexico , and service firms noted they are moving workers back
into the Gulf area. Respondents also noted that international
work continues to grow.  Agriculture The entire Eleventh District is experiencing drought
conditions, and the severity has progressed considerably. About
half of the district is now in exceptional drought, the most
severe drought classification, up from zero percent at the last
report. The outlook for the wheat crop is poor and it is likely
that the cotton harvest will be down from last year. Numerous
wildfires have led to an estimated $20.4 million in agricultural
losses. 