-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Minneapolis District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-06-08T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-minneapolis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Ninth District-- Minneapolis.  Economic activity in the Ninth District grew steadily since the
last report. Increased activity was noted in  consumer spending ,
tourism, services, commercial construction, manufacturing, and
energy and mining. Residential construction and real estate and
agricultural activity decreased, while commercial real estate
activity was flat. The job market continued to strengthen
moderately since the last report, while wage increases continued
to be modest. Significant price increases were noted for
wholesale items, but retail price increases were moderate.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Consumer spending grew moderately. A major Minneapolis-based
retailer reported that same-store sales in March and April
increased 2 percent compared with a year earlier. Sales and
traffic have generally been higher than a year ago at a Montana
mall, but were softer in mid-May. Sales and traffic are about
even with a year ago at a  South Dakota  mall, according to the
manager; cool weather seems to have slowed apparel sales. An
auto dealers association in North Dakota forecasts a 10 percent
increase in vehicle sales for 2011. While spring tourism
activity was soft in many areas due to cold and rainy weather,
tourism officials were optimistic for the summer season. Based
on summer reservation levels, the outlook for  Minnesota  tourism
businesses was upbeat. Spring tourism activity was slow in the
Upper Peninsula of  Michigan , but inquiries for summer travel
options were up, according to an official.  Construction and Real Estate  Commercial construction activity increased in April. The value
of commercial building permits in April increased from the same
period a year earlier in both the  Sioux Falls , S.D., and Fargo,
N.D., areas. A  data center  in the  Minneapolis  area plans an
expansion due to strong demand. Residential construction
decreased from last year. The value of residential building
permits in April dropped 27 percent from the same period a year
earlier in the Sioux Falls area; in Minneapolis-St. Paul, the
value of permits dropped significantly from a year ago.  Commercial real estate markets were steady since the last report.
According to industry analysts in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area,
office vacancy rates declined slightly, retail vacancy was flat
and industrial vacancy rates did not change much. Home sales
during mid-May in Minneapolis-St. Paul were down from last
year’s tax-credit-driven sales, while new listings increased.
April home sales in Billings, Mont., also decreased from last
year’s tax-credit-driven sales, while the number of homes
available for sale increased. Meanwhile, the number of homes for
sale in both Sioux Falls and Fargo was down from a year ago. The
inventory of homes held by lenders in Minneapolis also increased.
Multifamily housing vacancy rates declined, and rents increased
over the past few months. Services  Professional business services firms reported increased activity
since the last report. Preliminary results of a mid-year
business outlook poll by the  Minneapolis Fed  found that
professional services respondents expect to increase sales and
profits over the next year after gains during the past 12 months.
The survey also revealed that access to bank credit over the
past three months has improved, leading businesses to plan
expansions and increase capital expenditures. An environmental
consulting firm noted a strong increase in orders from the
public sector and slight increases from the private sector.
Information technology contacts noted an increase in activity
over the past two months.  Manufacturing  Manufacturing activity increased since the last report. A May
survey of purchasing managers by Creighton University (Omaha,
Neb.) showed increases in manufacturing activity in Minnesota,
South Dakota and  North Dakota . A Sioux Falls manufacturer of
electronics and aerospace products is expanding its operations.
A bank director reported that manufacturers saw higher
productivity and increased their equipment purchases.  Energy and Mining  Activity in the energy and mining sectors increased since the
last report. Late-May oil exploration activity increased from
early April, and two natural gas processing plants are planned
in North Dakota. Wind-energy development projects continued
since the last report; however, a $400 million wind-power
project in North Dakota was canceled because of potential
threats to endangered birds. Iron ore mines in northern
Minnesota are operating at full capacity. A mining company is in
the early stages of exploring a potential $1.5 billion taconite
mine and processing plant in northern  Wisconsin . Metals prices
remained strong, and Montana mines were operating at near
capacity. A potential gold/zinc mine in Michigan’s Upper
Peninsula is under consideration.  Agriculture  District agricultural producers were hampered by continued poor
weather conditions. Wet fields kept spring plantings of corn,
wheat, soybeans and sugar beets well behind their five-year
averages in late-May. Prices for most District agricultural
commodities increased since the last report, including corn,
wheat, cattle, hogs, eggs and soybeans. Poultry prices were flat,
and dairy prices decreased slightly. Of respondents to the
Minneapolis  Federal Reserve ’s first quarter (April) Agricultural
Credit Conditions Survey, 83 percent reported increased farm
incomes in the previous three months; 57 percent thought incomes
would increase in the next three months.  Employment, Wages and Prices  The job market continued to strengthen moderately since the last
report. According to the preliminary results of the Minneapolis
Fed’s mid-year outlook poll, 30 percent expect to increase full-
time employment at their firms over the next 12 months, while 22
percent will decrease staff. Some district companies reported
difficulty finding workers to fill information technology jobs,
certain health care occupations and skilled manufacturing
positions. A North Dakota agricultural producer noted a short
supply of qualified agricultural implement mechanics and
technicians. An online retailer will add 200 jobs in North
Dakota. In Minnesota, a communications firm announced plans to
hire 450 workers for a new call center, a health care company
will hire 100 more employees and a power generation firm will
add 90 employees. In contrast, a defense contractor said it will
close an operation affecting 100 workers, a meat producer will
lay off 90 employees and a health care organization will lay off
70 workers. Wage increases continued to be modest. According to
the preliminary results of the Minneapolis Fed’s mid-year
outlook poll, 66 percent expect wages to increase 2 percent or
less. Two placement agencies in  Montana  reported that while
demand for employment services is up, most wage increases have
remained below 3 percent. However, some Minnesota small
businesses were facing increased wage pressures for professional
and skilled labor, but not for unskilled labor.  Significant price increases were noted for wholesale items, but
retail price increases were moderate. Bank directors reported a
number of input price increases, including petroleum-based
products, some metals, rubber, health insurance and food. Prices
of large tires for mining and farm machinery increased over 50
percent recently. Minnesota gasoline prices were down from
recent peaks, but were still over $1 per gallon more than a year
earlier. 