-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Kansas City District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-06-08T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-kansas-city-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Tenth District--  Kansas City .  Growth in the Tenth District economy remained solid in May.
Consumer spending grew further, and transportation and high-tech
firms reported generally strong activity. The  energy industry 
continued to expand at a robust pace, and agricultural activity
was mostly positive with generally favorable growing conditions
and rising farmland values. Bankers reported mostly steady loan
demand, better loan quality, and rising deposits. Growth in
manufacturing activity slowed somewhat but remained modestly
expansionary. Residential and commercial real estate activity
was generally stable but still slow. Business contacts were
mostly optimistic about future sales, and a number of firms
reported increased  capital spending  and hiring plans. Prices
rose more slowly, but wage pressures were limited outside of
select industries and occupations with labor shortages.  Consumer Spending. Consumer spending continued to grow solidly,
and most contacts expected further growth in the months ahead.
Retail sales accelerated and nearly all retail contacts reported
that sales were above year-ago levels. Sales of apparel and
seasonal garden supplies were noted as particularly strong,
while a few contacts characterized sales of appliance and some
high-end items as weak. Store inventories edged higher, but most
stores were satisfied with current stock levels. Auto sales
continued to increase, but the pace slowed somewhat from the
previous survey. Auto inventories declined further, and several
dealers reported additional supply constraints due to the
natural disaster in  Japan . Restaurant sales were strong, and
travel and tourism activity remained favorable. Most restaurant
and tourism contacts expected solid activity heading forward.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity. Growth in District
manufacturing activity slowed following rapid growth in recent
months, while other business activity expanded further. Factory
orders declined after surging earlier in the spring, but factory
hiring continued at solid rates and firms remained relatively
optimistic about future sales. Growth in transportation activity
accelerated from the previous survey, and most firms reported
optimism about future sales. The majority of high-tech services
firms reported strong growth in sales, though the pace slowed a
bit from the previous month. Capital spending plans improved for
transportation companies, and high-tech and manufacturing firms
also reported fairly solid plans for future expenditures.  Real Estate and Construction. Residential and commercial real
estate activity was stable but still generally slow. The decline
in housing starts leveled off in May, and new home construction
activity was similar to year-ago levels. Expectations for future
homebuilding improved from the previous survey, and materials
were generally available. Residential construction supply firms
reported an uptick in sales, partly driven by demand for storm
related items such as roofing and decking materials. Home sales
were higher than the previous month but lower than a year ago.
Expectations for future home sales were modestly positive, but
home inventories climbed higher and  home prices  continued to
edge down in most areas. Mortgage lending activity improved from
the previous survey but was well below year-ago levels,
particularly for refinancing activity. Commercial real estate
activity was mostly flat, though it was slightly stronger than a
year ago and contacts had a more positive outlook for future
months. Vacancy and absorption rates were steady but expected to
improve. Office prices and rents declined and were below year-
ago levels in most cities. One contact noted continued obstacles
in financing, and another firm said projects have decreased in
overall size.  Banking. Bankers reported generally stable loan demand,
increased deposits, and improvements in loan quality. Overall
loan demand was stable to slightly lower in some cases. Demand
for commercial and residential real estate loans was generally
unchanged, while demand for commercial and industrial loans and
consumer installment loans decreased. Credit standards largely
remained unchanged in all major loan categories. Deposits
increased for the third straight survey. Bankers reported
improvements in loan quality compared to a year ago, and the
outlook for loan quality was more favorable. The majority of
bankers expected bank employment to remain unchanged over the
next year, citing low expected growth, cost constraints, and
uncertainty about regulations and government policies as the
major reasons restraining hiring plans.  Energy. Energy activity continued to expand strongly in May.
Nearly all contacts reported an increase in drilling activity
and were optimistic about the months ahead. Crude  oil prices 
remained elevated and favorable for drilling, and natural gas
activity rebounded somewhat with a recent uptick in prices.
Contacts reported that shortages of equipment and labor
continued to somewhat restrain the rate of increase in drilling
activity. Several companies have expanded their capital
expenditure plans, mainly for projects directed towards drilling
and exploration.  Agriculture. Rising farm income spurred record high farmland
values and cash rental rates. Crop prices rose further with
higher export demand, especially from  China . Record pork exports
bolstered hog prices, but increased cow slaughter and weaker
than usual demand for grilling cuts dampened cattle prices. Many
producers used cash rather than debt to pay for higher input
costs, and farm equipment sales remained robust. Agricultural
growing conditions varied in May. Recent heavy rains held up the
start of the winter wheat harvest with early reports of below-
average yields in drought-stricken areas. Despite planting
delays due to wet fields, the corn and soybean crops were
progressing normally.  Wages and Prices. Price levels generally rose at a slower rate
in May, and wage pressures were mostly contained despite solid
hiring plans. Manufacturing price increases remained common, but
with some slowdown in materials price increases and with fewer
firms planning to raise selling prices. Construction supply
firms also reported a moderation in selling price increases, but
builder input prices were considerably higher than the previous
survey. Retail prices increased further and were expected to
continue rising in future months. Transportation firms reported
an increase in input prices, and restaurants said menu prices
were well above year-ago levels. Wage pressures were still
contained in most industries. However, some firms reported
difficulties finding skilled workers and were forced to raise
wages, particularly in  information technology  fields. Hiring
plans have improved for most firms, particularly those in the
energy, information technology, health-care, and manufacturing
sectors. 