-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: New York District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-06-08T18:00:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-new-york-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Second District--  New York .  The Second District’s economy has continued to expand since the
last report, though at a somewhat diminished pace. Labor market
conditions have continued to improve modestly. Retail sales have
held steady at favorable levels since the last report.  Consumer
confidence  reports have been mixed. Tourism activity picked up
in April but tapered off a bit in early May. Commercial real
estate markets have been relatively stable. The residential
purchase market has been steady to somewhat softer, but the
rental market has continued to improve; new residential
construction remains low. Finally, bankers report further
weakening in consumer loan demand, tighter credit standards on
the commercial sector, and higher delinquency rates on consumer
loans but somewhat lower delinquencies in other loan categories.  Consumer Spending  Retail sales have held steady since the last report and are
running modestly above comparable 2010 levels. Sales were
somewhat ahead of plan, despite unseasonably cool and wet
weather, which likely had a small negative effect on spending.
Two contacts--a major retail chain and a large mall in upstate
New York--report that sales weakened in the first half of May,
after a robust April. Inventories are reported to be in good
shape. Selling prices have been steady overall, though some
contacts describe the pricing environment as more promotional
than a year ago. One major retail chain indicates that prices
have been stable during the first half of the year; yet moderate
price increases are planned for the second half of 2011--largely
for cotton-based merchandise.  Auto dealers in upstate New York report that sales of new
vehicles have cooled somewhat since the first quarter but remain
at fairly high levels, up moderately from a year earlier. Some
of the slowing in sales is attributed to supply disruptions
related to the tsunami in  Japan . One local auto dealers’
association reports an exceptionally low inventory of used
vehicles, which has hampered sales volume and pushed prices up.
Retail credit conditions continued to improve, while wholesale
credit conditions were mixed.  Consumer confidence surveys have given mixed results. Siena
College reports that consumer confidence among New York State
residents fell to its lowest level of the year in April--largely
attributed to surging food and energy prices. In contrast, the
Conference Board reports that consumer confidence among
residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) surged in
April, reaching its highest level since late 2007; the rise was
largely driven by improved perceptions of job availability.  Tourism activity in  New York City  strengthened in April, though
there were signs of some pullback in May. Occupancy rates at
Manhattan hotels moved up by more than the seasonal norm in
April, and room rates accelerated, running 5-10 percent higher
than a year earlier. Partly due to a spate of new show openings,
Broadway theaters report that both attendance and total revenues
surged in April and were running 10 to 15 percent ahead of a
year earlier, after a sluggish March,. Attendance and revenues
slipped in May, although both were still up from a year earlier.  Construction and Real Estate  Housing markets across the District have been mixed since the
last report: the home purchase market has been steady to
somewhat softer, but the rental market has continued to
strengthen. Buffalo-area Realtors report steady market
conditions, with sales activity and pending sales down from a
year earlier but prices up roughly 5 percent. More broadly,  home
prices  have been running moderately ahead of a year earlier
across most of upstate New York, despite pockets of weakness in
metropolitan Rochester and Albany. However, prices in the New
York City metropolitan area, including northern New Jersey and
southwestern  Connecticut , have drifted down slightly and are
modestly lower than a year ago.  An authority on New Jersey’s housing industry reports that sales
of existing homes have slowed since the last report, and new
home sales remained depressed. A sizable inventory of foreclosed
properties--roughly equal to nine months of sales--is reported
to be putting downward pressure on home prices overall. However,
low volume and a sizable incidence of distressed sales make it
difficult to gauge price trends in northern  New Jersey . Activity
in New York City’s co-op and condo market was mixed but
generally stable since the last report, with Manhattan, Brooklyn
and Bronx holding steady--in terms of both prices and sales
activity. Some softening was evident in Queens and  Staten Island .
 Long Island ’s market has been stable, though conditions have
weakened in the Hamptons, where sales activity is off,
especially at the high end.  In contrast with the sluggish purchase market, rental markets
have performed fairly well, particularly in New York City:
Manhattan rents are reported to be up roughly 6 percent from a
year ago. Moreover, when the widespread withdrawal of landlord
concessions is factored in, the rise in effective rents has been
steeper. Rental vacancy rates have drifted down. Contacts in
both New York City and northern New Jersey see relatively little
new residential construction, and note that most new and
proposed development is for rental housing.  Commercial real estate markets have been largely steady since
the last report. Office markets showed signs of modest
improvement in New York City, Long Island, and most of upstate
New York, as vacancy rates edged down while asking rents were
steady to up slightly. However, market conditions weakened
somewhat in northern New Jersey, Westchester and Fairfield
Counties, and in the  Albany  area. Industrial vacancy rates rose
in Long Island but were little changed in other markets. In much
of the District, asking rents on industrial properties, which
had been declining through the end of 2010, have leveled off or
moved up modestly in recent months.  Other Business Activity  Reports from business contacts give a mixed picture of the labor
market. A major New York City employment agency reports that,
after a robust March, hiring activity weakened noticeably in
April and early May, though it picked up again in the third week
of May. Still, the supply of available workers has dwindled
further, and more workers are testing the water and leaving
current jobs for new ones. Starting salaries have remained
steady and below prerecession levels. Law firms, in particular,
have started hiring more, while financial sector hiring has been
stable. A contact in the securities industry reports that the
jobs being added there tend to be mostly in support areas, such
as legal and compliance, as opposed to revenue-generating areas.  Non-manufacturing firms broadly indicate that both business and
hiring activity have been steady to modestly higher since the
last report. Contacts have become slightly less optimistic about
the near term outlook and have scaled back hiring plans somewhat.
Nonmanufacturing firms report that cost pressures remain
widespread but have not broadened since the last report.
Manufacturing firms in the District report that business
activity was generally steady in April and early May. Contacts
report that they are adding workers, on net, and plan to
continue to do so in the months ahead. Manufacturers also note
increasingly widespread price pressures, and roughly two in five
say they plan to hike their selling prices in the months ahead.
A trucking-industry contact reports that shipping activity has
shown no sign of slipping, despite the recent surge in diesel
prices.  Financial Developments  Reports on loan demand were mixed: small to medium sized banks
indicate a decrease in demand for consumer loans, an increase in
demand for commercial mortgages, and no change in the demand for
residential mortgages and commercial and industrial loans.
Respondents indicate no change in credit standards for the
household sector but a tightening of standards for commercial
loans and especially commercial mortgages. Bankers report a
decrease in spreads of loan rates over costs of funds for all
loan categories--particularly on residential mortgages. There
were also fairly widespread decreases in deposit rates. Finally,
delinquency rates rose for consumer loans but decreased for
commercial mortgages and, to a lesser extent, on commercial and
industrial loans. Delinquency rates on residential mortgages
were unchanged. 