-- 
U.S. Corn-Crop Delays Signal Tightest World Supply Since 1974, Price Gains

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-06-08T18:52:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/u-s-corn-crop-delays-signal-tightest-world-supply-since-1974-price-gains.html
Wet weather that delayed corn
planting in the U.S., the world’s largest exporter, may send
global inventories to their lowest in 37 years, signaling higher
costs for consumers and livestock producers.  More than one-third of Midwest fields were planted after
the mid-May target for optimal growth because of excessive rain,
and Ohio farmers as of June 5 were the furthest behind since
1989, with 58 percent sown, government data show. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. said June 6 that the disruptions increase the
“potential for a shortfall.”  Corn futures more than doubled in the past year to $7.365 a
bushel in  Chicago  yesterday and may top $9 if conditions worsen,
according to Morgan Stanley. The rally is boosting costs for
meat producers including Tyson Foods Inc. and ethanol makers
such as Poet LLC, as global food inflation tracked by the United
Nations accelerated in nine of the past 11 months.  “There’s potential to take out record highs this summer
for corn,” said  Richard Feltes , a vice president of research at
R.J. O’Brien & Associates, a broker in Chicago. “There’s a lot
riding on the need for our weather to normalize and not be
characterized by this regime of extremes that’s really been the
pattern since last fall.”  Corn futures for July delivery surged 27.5 cents, or 3.7
percent, to $7.64 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, the
biggest gain since May 18. Earlier, the price advanced by the
exchange’s 30-cent limit to $7.665.  Cutting Forecast  In a report tomorrow, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
probably will cut its forecast of global corn reserves before
this year’s Northern Hemisphere harvest to 121.46 million metric
tons, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 15 analysts. That
would be down 17 percent from last year, the biggest drop since
1994, and would leave supplies at 14.5 percent of estimated
consumption, the lowest ratio since 1974, government data show.  Analysts also are expecting the USDA may cut its estimate
of reserves before the 2012 harvest. While the Bloomberg survey
showed corn inventories probably will rebound to 127.21 million
tons next year, that would be down from a May forecast of 129.14
million.  Floods damaged as much as 6.8 million acres of farmland
across the South and Midwest, according to the U.S.  Army Corps 
of Engineers, an area equal to the size of  Massachusetts . From
the Mississippi River Delta region, where heavy rains and snow
melt from the north forced governments to open levees, to the
pathways of the Missouri and Ohio rivers, high waters have
wrecked farmland.  Unplanted Fields  “The weather has definitely challenged the ability of
farmers to sow their crops,” said  Hussein Allidina , the head of
commodities research at Morgan Stanley in  New York . “That’s
going to limit ultimately the amount of acres that get
planted.”  About 5.5 million acres, or 6 percent of the 92.178 million
that corn farmers said they intended to plant this year, were
still waiting to firm for heavy farm machinery as of June 5, the
USDA said. An estimated 79 percent of the plants that were sown
emerged from the ground, below the 90 percent average for the
past five years.  Yield  potential  begins to decline in fields planted after
the middle of May because crops reproduce during the peak of
summer heat in July and August, according to  Iowa State
University . Excessive soil-moisture supplies from heavy rains
from  Arkansas  to  Ohio  may leave plants with shallow root systems
and vulnerable to yield losses.  Volatile Prices  “We needed a perfect growing season to rebuild inventories
to a more comfortable level,” said Alexander Bos, an
agricultural commodity strategist for Macquarie Group Ltd. in
New York. “Prices will be volatile and trend higher for an
extended period of time to slow demand and provide incentives
for farmers to expand acreage next year.”  Crops may recover before the harvest begins in the Midwest,
the biggest growing region, in September and October.  “There’s still a chance to have reasonably good yields if
we can normalize summer weather and stay away from an earlier-
than-normal frost rate this fall,” R.J. O’Brien’s Feltes said.
“We are going to need to extend the growing season to bring
this late crop home.”  Prospects have dimmed for U.S. crops as parts of  China , the
second-biggest corn grower, had the least rain in a century and
some European regions are the driest in 50 years. In  Canada ,
rain has slowed grain planting.  Global output of coarse grains such as corn and barley will
rise 3.9 percent to 1.165 million tons, about equal with demand,
the  United Nations ’ Food and Agriculture Organization said
yesterday.  ‘Wild Card’ Weather  Weather across the Midwest during the next three months is
the “wild card” for final U.S. yields after the slow start to
planting, said  Jerry Gidel , a market analyst for North American
Risk Management Services Inc. in Chicago.  “World supplies are so tight that any aberration in the
weather the remainder of this summer will have a dramatic impact
on corn” prices, Gidel said. “There’s no margin of error.”  Global wheat inventories may also be reduced because of dry
weather in the U.S., parts of Europe and China, analysts said.  Wheat stockpiles probably dropped to 182.1 million tons on
June 1, down from last month’s USDA estimate and 7.2 percent
lower than a year earlier, according to last week’s Bloomberg
survey. Inventories at the end of next year may be drop to
178.86 million tons, the lowest in three years, the analysts
said.  Reduced Output  The U.S. winter-wheat harvest, which began last month,
probably will total 1.391 billion bushels, the least in five
years, according to the survey. Hot, dry weather from  Texas  to
Colorado reduced production from 1.424 billion harvested last
year even after farmers planted 10 percent more from September
to November.         Higher commodity expenses led food makers including General
Mills Inc. and  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  to boost prices to consumers.
Food imports will rise 21 percent to a record $1.29 trillion
this year, the UN Food and Agriculture Organization said in a
report yesterday.  Tyson Foods, based in Springdale, Arkansas, said last month
that higher spending on  animal feed  eroded gains in beef and
chicken prices. Grain costs in fiscal 2011 will rise almost $500
million from a year earlier, the company said in a statement.  McDonald’s, Hormel  Oak Brook , Illinois-based McDonald’s, which will report
earnings later today, boosted menu prices in the U.S. by 1
percent in March, Chief Financial Officer Peter Bensen said on
an April 21 conference call. Hormel Foods Inc., based in Austin,
 Minnesota , said May 25 that it expects to face higher commodity
costs and will continue to raise prices.  “The high-price situation is not something that’s just
going to vanish over one season,” said  Abdolreza Abbassian , a
senior economist at the Rome-based FAO. “The fundamentals are
still what they are, a very tight situation for almost all
commodities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  