-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Atlanta District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-06-08T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-atlanta-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Sixth District-- Atlanta.  Summary. Sixth District business contacts reported that economic
activity moderated somewhat in April and May. Retailers
experienced a deceleration in sales and traffic, which they
attributed to periods of adverse weather and high gasoline
prices. Tourism-related spending, however, increased across all
segments of the industry. Homebuilders noted continued low
levels of sales and construction, while brokers cited modest
improvements in sales and traffic. In spite of declines in
residential inventories, prices also decreased for both new and
existing homes. Commercial contractors reported that new
construction activity remained weak. Overall, the majority of
manufacturers continued to report increases in new orders and
production. Auto manufacturers, however, reduced production
because of supply constraints stemming from the Japanese
earthquake. The late April tornadoes in several states and
flooding on the lower  Mississippi River  had a significant impact
on economic activity in the directly affected areas, but no
major damage to the energy or transportation infrastructure was
reported. Bankers reported that loan demand had improved
slightly from weak levels. Labor markets continued to improve
gradually across the District. Firms expressed concern over
rising commodity costs as margins remained tight and
productivity gains became more difficult to realize.  Consumer Spending and Tourism. Most District merchants signaled
a deceleration in sales in April and May after moderate
increases earlier in the year. Retailers said that periodic
adverse weather conditions and high gasoline prices combined to
dampen sales across the District. Contacts reported that they
continued to manage inventories tightly. The outlook among
District retailers remained optimistic. Auto dealers noted both
declining inventories and firm demand.  Tourism activity improved further throughout the District.
Occupancy and room rates were boosted by increases in both
business and leisure travel. Convention and cruise bookings have
increased as well. Overall, contacts in the travel industry
remained optimistic. Several restaurant contacts reported that
sales were somewhat softer and that higher food prices had led
to tighter margins.  Real Estate and Construction. District homebuilders indicated
that new home sales and construction remained at very low levels
in April and May. Several Alabama builders reported that in many
areas repairs and rebuilding from the April tornado damage was
underway.  District residential brokers indicated that existing home sales
growth remained slightly ahead of the year-earlier level, but
softened somewhat from March to April. However, the majority of
Florida brokers continued to experience gains. Florida contacts
again noted that distressed sales and cash buyers were
significant drivers of activity.  Both residential builders and brokers indicated that housing
inventories eased on a yearover-year basis. District brokers
noted more modest price declines than earlier this year, while
most builders continued to cite downward pressure on  home prices .
Brokers reported that buyer traffic improved, while builders
indicated weaker buyer interest.  Nonresidential construction activity remained at low levels
during April and May. Commercial brokers indicated that most
markets continued to stabilize, but the pace of activity
remained slow. Growing demand for apartments spurred an increase
in multifamily development in several parts of the region.
Overall, commercial construction activity is expected to remain
at low levels for the rest of the year.  Manufacturing and Transportation. District manufacturers noted
an increase in new orders and production in April and May. The
majority of contacts planned to increase production in the
short-term. The exceptions were auto producers and parts
suppliers that experienced input constraints stemming from the
Japanese earthquake. However, these contacts reported that lost
production would be made up later in the year as supply channels
returned to normal. District ports reported increased volumes in
cargo and shipments. Air cargo contacts noted that tonnage was
returning to near pre-recession levels. Railway firms cited
strong increases in exports of chemicals, coal, and other
energy-related products to  China  and  India . The flooding of the
 Mississippi  River is not expected to cause long-term disruptions
to maritime traffic.  Banking and Finance. Businesses outside of the construction and
real estate segments reported a slight improvement in credit
availability. Banking contacts remarked that business loan
demand had improved modestly, but new firms had difficulty
qualifying for credit because of their inability to meet cash
flow requirements. Bankers indicated that consumer loan demand
remained flat as consumers continued to pay down equity and
consolidate debt. Credit availability for auto loans continued
to improve. Some firms continued to rely on cash reserves for
 capital expenditures  and expansions. District banks also noted
an increase in credit requests from agriculture customers.  Employment and Prices. Labor markets continued to improve
gradually across the District. Most business contacts planned to
either increase staff levels or leave them unchanged. Firms that
plan to increase employment were doing so in response to
increased demand and because they have maximized productivity
with their existing staff. Staffing agencies continued to
experience high demand for temporary workers as well as an
increase in temp-to-hire positions. Some contacts reported
difficulty finding qualified candidates to fill specialized,
higher skilled positions, especially in healthcare and
communications/technology sectors. Firms that are not increasing
employment cited high operating costs and uncertainty about
future demand as constraints to hiring plans.  Firms’ expectations for unit cost increases have moderated
slightly since the beginning of the year as their outlook for
labor and benefits costs were revised down. However, prices of
commodity-linked materials continued to rise and downward price
pressures from productivity gains were noted as tapering off.
District contacts continued to report that margins remain
squeezed and their ability to raise selling prices was mixed.  Natural Resources and Agriculture. The number of rigs operating
in the  Gulf of Mexico  is at roughly half the pre-Gulf of Mexico
oil spill level. Several energy infrastructure manufacturing
firms noted an increase in  capital investment . The Mississippi
River flooding has caused minor disruption to river traffic,
which, in turn, may affect production in some oil refineries and
chemical plants. The interruptions are expected to be short-
lived, and there are no reports of damage to transportation or
energy infrastructure.  Much of the District experienced difficult weather conditions in
April and May. An abnormally cold, wet spring and severe storms
have delayed planting in some areas. Producers of poultry,
cattle, and timber experienced losses as a result of the
tornadoes as well. Many farmers in Mississippi and  Louisiana  are
experiencing some degree of flooding from the Mississippi.
Prices for many of the District’s agricultural products remained
strong, particularly cotton, soybeans, and beef, although the
recent record-high cotton prices have declined because of some
pull back in global demand. 