-- 
U.S. Can’t Simply Walk Away From Afghanistan, Crocker Says

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-06-08T19:41:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/u-s-can-t-afford-to-walk-away-from-afghanistan-crocker-says.html
Ryan Crocker, the Obama
administration’s nominee to be the ambassador to  Afghanistan ,
said the U.S. can’t afford to abandon the region and let
terrorists regain a haven for planning violence like the Sept.
11 attacks.  “The  United States  is not walking away from the region,”
Crocker said during a Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing
on his nomination. “We will not repeat the mistakes of the
past.”  While the death of  Osama bin Laden  helps hamper al-Qaeda,
Crocker said that “much work remains to be done to ensure that
al-Qaeda can never again threaten us from Afghanistan with the
Taliban providing safe haven.”  Foreign Relations Committee Chairman  John Kerry , a
Massachusetts Democrat, said the U.S. needs to reconsider the
costs versus potential benefits of U.S. involvement. The
“current commitment in troops and in dollars is neither
proportional to our interests nor sustainable,” Kerry said.  The administration is scheduled to begin withdrawing troops
in July, as the NATO-led coalition begins handing over security
responsibility to the Afghan government.  President  Barack Obama , who has said he will announce his
plans for the next stage of U.S. involvement soon, spoke with
Afghan President Hamid Karzai for about an hour today via
videoconference, White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said.  Talk With Karzai  The two leaders discussed the impact of bin Laden’s demise
and giving Afghan forces a bigger security role as the U.S.
pulls back, Carney said at a White House briefing.  “There was not a discussion of specific numbers” of
troops that will be withdrawn, Carney said.  The Foreign Relations Committee’s Democratic majority
released a report today that said almost $19 billion in U.S. aid
to stabilize Afghanistan may be having the opposite effect,
promoting corruption and undermining the Afghan government.  Crocker pledged to find ways to curb corruption, which he
said risks triggering “a second insurgency” that “undermines
confidence on the part of the people of their government.”  With billions of dollars in aid facing little scrutiny in
Afghanistan, Crocker said, “It’s certainly something I’m going
to take a careful look at.”  In response to the Senate report, Carney said the notion
that Afghanistan has made little progress from U.S. aid “is
just simply wrong.”  “We don’t believe its assessment of the overall progress
is the same as ours,” he said.  Crocker, 61, has been U.S. ambassador in  Iraq ,  Pakistan  and
other countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  