-- 
U.S. Needs Austerity to Reset Economy, Pimco Official Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-06-08T18:47:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/u-s-requires-austerity-to-reset-economy-pimco-s-kashkari-says-tom-keene.html
The U.S. should stop kicking “the
can down the road” and implement fiscal austerity measures so
the economy can fully recover from the financial crisis,
according to Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Neel Kashkari.  The government should abandon stimulative measures and
focus on economic adjustments in order to allow for long-term
growth, Kashkari, managing director and head of new investment
at  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco, said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “Midday Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  “There’s no question that austerity has short-term
consequences, but we can’t just continue to kick the can down
the road here,” he said. “We can’t continue to try to use
short-term stimulus measures to delay the necessary economic
adjustment. At the end of the day, our economy needs to adjust.
We need to get our fiscal house in order and it’s not pain-
free.”  Kashkari said that  tax policy  should be changed to
encourage savings and investment after the widespread
accumulation of debt during the past 30 years.  White House officials are working with Republicans in the
U.S. House of Representatives to secure a deficit-reduction plan
and an increase to the $14.3 trillion federal debt limit. The
Treasury Department reiterated last week that U.S. authority to
borrow under the debt limit will expire on Aug. 2.  The government’s $787 billion American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act of 2009 funded federal programs and provided
aid that was aimed at boosting the ailing economy.  The Labor Department reported last week that the
 unemployment rate  rose to 9.1 percent in May, the highest since
last year. The  U.S. economy  grew at a 1.8 percent annual rate in
the first quarter, down from a 3.1 percent pace in the fourth
quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  