-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: St. Louis District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-06-08T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-st-louis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Eight District--  St. Louis .  Summary  The economy of the Eighth District has continued to expand at a
moderate pace since our previous report. Manufacturing activity
has continued to increase since the previous report, while
activity in the services sector has declined. Retail sales
increased in April and early May over year-earlier levels.
Similarly, auto sales increased over the same period.
Residential real estate activity has continued to decline, and
commercial and industrial real estate market conditions have
been mixed. Overall lending at a sample of large District banks
saw little change during the first quarter of 2011 compared with
the fourth quarter of 2010.  Consumer Spending  Contacts reported that retail sales in April and early May were
up, on average, over year earlier levels. About 48 percent of
the retailers reported increases in sales, while 36 percent saw
decreases and 16 percent saw no changes. Roughly 41 percent of
the retailers noted that sales levels were below their
expectations, 35 percent reported that sales met expectations,
and 24 percent reported that sales were above expectations.
About 32 percent of the retailers noted that their inventories
were too high, while 20 percent reported that their inventories
were too low. The sales outlook for June and July was mostly
optimistic: About 60 percent of the retailers expect sales to
increase over 2010 levels, while 24 percent expect sales to
decrease and 16 percent expect sales to be similar to last year.  Car dealers in the District reported that sales in April and
early May were up, on average, compared with last year’s sales.
About 58 percent of the car dealers surveyed saw increases in
sales, while 29 percent saw decreases and 13 percent saw no
changes. About 38 percent of the car dealers noted that used car
sales had increased relative to new car sales, while 21 percent
reported the opposite. Also, about 29 percent of contacts
reported an increase in sales of low-end vehicles relative to
high-end vehicles, while less than 4 percent reported the
opposite. About 57 percent of the car dealers surveyed reported
that their inventories were below desired levels, while 9
percent reported that their inventories were too high. The sales
outlook for June and July was generally optimistic: About 58
percent of the car dealers expect sales to increase over 2010
levels.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity  Manufacturing activity has continued to increase since our
previous report. Several manufacturers reported plans to open
plants and expand operations in the near future, while a smaller
number of contacts reported plans to close plants or reduce
operations. Firms in the tire, powder coating, food, paper,
packaging, machinery, automobile, and ship manufacturing
industries reported plans to expand existing operations and hire
new workers. In contrast, a firm in paper manufacturing
announced plans to close a plant and lay off employees.
Additionally, some automobile manufacturers have reduced their
production because of a shortage of parts sourced from  Japan .  Activity in the District’s services sector has declined since
our previous report. Numerous casinos in the District have been
forced to temporarily close because of flooding on the
 Mississippi River . Additionally, contacts in the telephone call
center, health care, business support, and support activities
for transportation industries reported plans to decrease
operations in the District and lay off employees. In contrast, a
contact in the nursing care industry announced plans to expand
operations and hire new workers.  Real Estate and Construction  Home sales continued to decline throughout most of the Eighth
District. Compared with the same period in 2010, April 2011
year-to-date home sales were down 11 percent in Louisville and
 Memphis  and 19 percent in St. Louis and  Little Rock . Residential
construction also continued to decrease throughout the District.
April 2011 year-to-date single-family housing permits decreased
in the majority of the District metro areas compared with the
same period in 2010. Permits decreased 33 percent in Little Rock,
42 percent in St. Louis, and 25 percent in Memphis and
Louisville.  Commercial and industrial real estate market conditions were
mixed. Compared with the  fourth quarter of 2010, first quarter 2011 suburban office
vacancy rates increased in St. Louis, decreased in Little Rock
and Louisville, and remained constant in Memphis. The downtown
office vacancy rates increased in Louisville and St. Louis,
decreased in Memphis, and stayed the same in Little Rock.
Industrial vacancy rates decreased for Louisville, Memphis, and
St. Louis but increased for Little Rock. Commercial and
industrial construction activity remained slow throughout most
of the District. Contacts in Little Rock noted that commercial
construction has remained fairly weak. Contacts in St. Louis and
northwest  Arkansas  also noted weak commercial construction
activity. In contrast, some contacts in southwestern Illinois
and  Kentucky  noted that overall construction has increased
recently.  Banking and Finance  A survey of senior loan officers at a sample of large District
banks indicates little variation in overall lending activity in
the first quarter of 2011 relative to the fourth quarter of 2010.
During this period, credit standards for commercial and
industrial loans remained unchanged, while demand for these
loans ranged from unchanged to moderately stronger. Credit
standards for commercial real estate loans were unchanged, while
demand ranged from unchanged to moderately weaker. Meanwhile,
credit standards for consumer loans remained unchanged, while
demand ranged from about the same to moderately stronger. Credit
standards for residential  mortgage loans  ranged from unchanged
to somewhat tighter, while demand ranged from moderately weaker
to moderately stronger.  Agriculture and Natural Resources 