-- 
U.S. Speculative-Grade Credit Risk Rises to Highest in 6 Months

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-06-08T22:01:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/u-s-speculative-grade-credit-risk-rises-to-highest-in-6-months.html
The cost of protecting U.S.
speculative-grade corporate bonds from default climbed to the
highest level in six months as concern deepened that the global
recovery is slowing.  The Markit Group Ltd. CDX North America High Yield Index,
which falls as investor confidence deteriorates and rises as it
improves, declined 0.85 percentage point to 99.94 percent of
face value as of 5:03 p.m. in New York, according to index
administrator Markit. That’s the lowest since Dec. 1.  Corporate credit risk is perceived to be rising after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
“frustratingly slow” U.S. recovery warrants sustained monetary
stimulus, as the current program to buy $600 billion in bonds
ends this month. Global gross domestic product may expand 3.2
percent this year, less than the 3.3 percent forecast in
January, the  World Bank  said.  An index tied to commercial property debt fell to the
lowest level since October. The price of a Markit Group CMBX
index linked to junior AAA commercial-mortgage bonds declined
1.17 percentage points to 70.88 yesterday.  Credit-default swaps on  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  climbed 8.9 basis points to 170.7 basis
points, according to data provider CMA. Contracts on  MBIA Inc. (MBI) 
unit MBIA Insurance Corp. jumped 2.4 percentage points upfront
to 32.7 percent, the data show.  Investment Grade  Contracts on  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  surged 10.9
basis points to 196 and credit-default swaps on  General Electric
Co. (GE) ’s finance unit General Electric Capital Corp. increased 15.4
basis points to 139, according to CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 2.9 basis points to a
mid-price of 98.6 basis points, the highest since 99.4 basis
points on Nov. 30, the data show.  The credit swaps index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, jumped the
most in one day since rolling to a new series on March 21. It’s
climbed for five of the past six days. Labor Department figures
on June 3 showed employers in May added the fewest number of
workers in eight months and the jobless rate climbed to 9.1
percent, the highest level this year.  The economy is “still producing at levels well below its
potential,” making accommodative monetary policies necessary,
Bernanke said yesterday in a speech in Atlanta. At the same
time, the Fed “will take whatever actions are necessary to keep
inflation well controlled,” he said.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  