-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Richmond District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-06-08T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-richmond-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Fifth District-- Richmond.  Overview. Economic activity has been sending increasingly mixed
signals since our last report. The banking sector improved
moderately, led by gains in commercial and industrial lending.
Tourism also strengthened, with holiday bookings expected to be
above year-ago levels. Reports on District labor markets were
generally positive; however, employment agents noted that some
manufacturing clients were cautious about hiring. Residential
and commercial real estate agents generally described activity
as mixed. Moreover, manufacturing lost momentum, with several
contacts noting that demand had leveled off in recent weeks. In
addition, revenue growth among non-retail service firms weakened,
and retailers said that sales fell over the last month as
shopper traffic dropped sharply. Manufacturing firms reported
that input prices grew at a faster pace since our last report,
but pass-through was limited and price growth at services firms
remained moderate.  Manufacturing. District manufacturing cooled in May after
expanding for seven months. Several textile and apparel contacts
described their business as being unpredictable, with “very
little depth.” Similarly, a producer of coated steels mentioned
that, although the first quarter had been fairly strong, order
volume had been going down since then. Also, a supplier of
specialty materials reported that his business had leveled off
in recent weeks because demand for his customers’ goods had
slowed. Several contacts stated that the disruptions in  Japan 
had affected automotive deliveries, due to lack of electronic
components and paints. Firms reported that their customers were
strongly resisting any price increases, despite knowing that
commodity prices were rising. Our latest manufacturing survey
revealed that prices of raw materials rose notably over the last
month, but prices of finished goods were up only moderately.  Retail. Retail sales generally slowed since our last report.
Several firms attributed the slowdown to higher gasoline prices.
A central Virginia retailer noted that, even though  consumer
confidence  was good in the area, buying behavior was “tentative,
as customers’ needs were superseding their wants,” driving
stores to compete aggressively on price. Apparel and general
merchandise retailers reported soft sales, and a large
bookseller in central  North Carolina  stated that sales had
weakened over the last month. In contrast, a store manager at a
big box discount store in  Virginia Beach  said sales had improved
in the last month and that the store was hiring again. Most auto
dealers that we contacted cited flat-to-stronger sales, despite
scattered reports of inventory or parts shortages caused by the
Japanese crisis. Grocery sales remained solid, and several
contacts reported passing through price increases to their
customers. A number of surveyed wholesalers reported faster
revenue growth in recent weeks. Durable goods wholesalers
generally noted a pick-up in revenues despite the reported
ongoing slump in retailers’ big-ticket sales. Retail prices
edged up, and wages were little changed.  Services. Contacts at non-retail services firms reported
somewhat slower revenue growth in recent weeks. Executives at
several healthcare facilities noted flat demand for services
over the last month. One hospital administrator also expressed
uncertainty about the financial effect on his hospital of the
increase in “newly insured” populations under healthcare reform.
He noted significant challenges for smaller, rural hospitals
with respect to information technology investments needed to
secure federal matching opportunities. In contrast, professional,
scientific, and technical firms that we survey reported slightly
quicker revenue growth. Price growth at services firms was mild,
while wage increases were widespread. A healthcare system
executive in central  Virginia  reported that salary pressures
were being driven by shortages in some specialties.  Finance. Lending activity posted modest but broad-based gains
across the District over the last few months. Commercial and
industrial lending expanded, especially for capital equipment
and storage facilities. Several community bankers also cited
increasing loan demand from small businesses. These borrowers
had new orders from large manufacturers, who were subcontracting
to keep up with demand. Consumers were starting to use credit
cards again, according to several lenders, and were increasingly
seeking financing for autos and home improvements. However, a
contact at a large bank in North Carolina reported making very
few  home equity loans , and most bankers reported seeing little
new mortgage lending activity. Most lenders cited improvement in
their balance sheet quality, with delinquencies and charge-offs
down markedly.  Real Estate. Residential real estate agents in the Fifth
District gave varied reports. An agent in the D.C. area
described the housing market as “terrific,” noting that April
produced the highest number of sales since June 2005, with the
exception of last March and April, when sales were boosted by
the first-time buyer program. In Richmond, however, a contact
mentioned that unit sales had dropped quite a bit, along with
foot traffic. Sales in the lower-price range were reported as
faring much better than sales in the upper ranges. A Realtor in
Richmond said that sales of homes in the $400,000 to $1 million
price range had increased compared to a year ago. He pointed out,
however, that sales were contingent on the houses being in
perfect condition, with extremely competitive pricing. While
most contacts reported that they had not seen any change in the
proportion of distressed sales, one agent noticed an increase of
short sales and stated that the entire short sale process
remained a major issue for buyers. On balance, most contacts
said that transaction prices had either flattened or continued
to decline.  Commercial real estate activity was mixed across market segments
and geographic areas of the District over the last month.
Pockets of modest strength were noted in demand for retail space
in the Hampton Roads area, as gains in retail sales in recent
months bolstered retailers’ confidence, according to a local
Realtor. A West Virginia Realtor reported that the leasing of
 office space  had picked up, but both retail and industrial
demand remained stagnant. However, the demand for office space
in Baltimore was described as “spotty at best” by one Realtor. A
central Virginia Realtor noted improved commercial leasing
activity and modest gains in demand for the retail space, but
leasing of industrial space was unchanged over the last month. A
North Carolina Realtor reported modest, but widespread
improvements in leasing, while several contacts in the DC area
cited mostly softer leasing activity over the last few weeks.
Contacts generally characterized rents as having stabilized, and
several Realtors stated that banks were more willing to lend
than earlier in the year. A Maryland contact in commercial
construction stated that area contractors were unable to
increase prices due to weak demand, but subcontractors were
having more success at passing though increases in commodity
costs.  Labor Markets. Labor conditions were flat to slightly stronger
since our last report. Several employment agents were upbeat,
but noted localized areas of softness in demand across the
District. Some employment agents indicated that they were
placing more permanent workers than they were a year ago.
However, a branch manager of one agency in Raleigh said that
some manufacturing clients remained cautious about hiring
decisions due to the instability of incoming orders. A
Hagerstown agent said, “Growth is not surging forward quite as
much as a few months ago, but we are still seeing growth in
demand compared to a year ago.” He noted, however, that gains
were somewhat uneven because the demand for extra workers seemed
to come and go within short time frames, indicating volatility
in his clients’ own sales and production. Retailers made few
hiring changes in recent weeks, following an extended period of
payroll cuts, according to recent survey participants. However,
the store manager at a chain discounter in North Carolina
remarked that a local manufacturer had begun recalling laid-off
workers, which included some store employees; because the
manufacturing wages were more attractive than what he could
offer well-qualified applicants, he will cover the vacancies
with more hours for seasonal workers. Services providers
continued to add employees, although the overall pace of hiring
in the sector slowed from a month ago.  Tourism. Tourism in the District continued to show signs of
improvement in recent weeks. Airport contacts in  Maryland  and
Virginia reported strong business travel since our last report.
In addition, recreational industries, restaurants, and hotels
noted stronger revenue growth, according to our contacts. A
contact on the North Carolina coastline told us that tourist
activity had increased compared to year-ago levels, and house
rentals were up as much as 20 percent or higher in the last few
weeks. A tourism contact in  Washington , D.C. reported that the
number of incoming tour buses was unusually high, and the
nation’s capital expected more than 500,000 tourists on Memorial
Day weekend.  Agriculture. Rain and below-average temperatures hindered cotton
planting in  South Carolina  and delayed corn and soybean planting
in parts of Virginia and  West Virginia . In contrast, cotton
planting was almost complete in Virginia and planting of peanuts
was progressing on schedule. In Maryland and Virginia, vegetable
growers continued to plant summer crops and harvesting of greens
and strawberries was well underway. Moreover, an analyst in
Maryland noted that a large amount of good quality hay had been
cut and baled, due to good drying conditions. In addition,
pastures continued to green-up. Lastly, peach conditions in
South Carolina and West Virginia ranged from fair to excellent,
with most orchards in good condition. 