-- 
IUSA Units File Recovery Plan Giving Noteholders New Debt

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-06-08T19:09:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/tubo-de-pasteje-files-recovery-plan-giving-noteholders-new-debt-for-claims.html
Tubo de Pasteje SA, a unit of copper-
tubing maker Industrias Unidas SA, filed a restructuring
proposal that would give noteholders new debt for 100 percent of
the face value of their notes.  Holders of $200 million in 11.5 percent notes would get new
Series A notes in the same amount plus interest, which would be
secured by the stock of Tubo’s U.S. unit, Cambridge-Lee Holdings
Inc., according to the reorganization plan filed yesterday in
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware .  The plan is “designed to maximize recoveries to all
creditors and enhance the financial stability” of the
reorganized company, Tubo said in court papers.  Tubo entered bankruptcy after defaulting on the
11.5 percent notes following a slowdown in construction and a
surge in copper prices, according to court documents. Industrias
Unidas, or IUSA, issued the notes, which were secured by a
pledge of Cambridge-Lee stock. IUSA, based in Mexico City,
didn’t file for bankruptcy.  The 11.5 percent notes traded at 77 cents on the dollar
yesterday, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  IUSA bought Cambridge-Lee Industries Inc. in 1993,
according to the company’s  Web site . Cambridge-Lee acquired
Reading Tube Corp. in 1996, making it one of the world’s biggest
manufacturers of copper tube for commercial applications such as
water supply, air conditioning and refrigeration.  Under the plan, lenders that extended $800,000 of credit
would share in the Series A notes, court papers show. Holders of
about $148 million in so-called “copper debt notes” and
holders of $24.5 million of commercial paper would receive
unsecured Series B notes in exchange for their claims.  The company also would reinstate about $41.7 million in
debt owed on a  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  loan, as well as about
$66.2 million owed on a General Electric Capital Corp. loan.  The case is In re Tubo de Pasteje SA de CV, 09-14353, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 