-- 
Humala Needs to Give Peru Market ‘Clear Signals,’ Finance Minister Says

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y   a n d   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-06-08T18:07:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/humala-must-give-peru-investors-clear-signals-benavides-says.html
Peru  President-elect Ollanta Humala
should send “clear signals” to reassure investors about his
economic policies after his June 5 victory triggered a sell-off
of Peruvian assets, Finance Minister Ismael Benavides said.  Humala, 48, needs to focus on defining his economic
policies after pledging early in his campaign to boost
government control of the economy and unilaterally increase
mining royalties, Benavides said. Benavides offered to accompany
Humala’s team to meet overseas investors before the government’s
term ends next month, a proposal that was rejected by Humala’s
economic aide Oscar Dancourt.  “We’re leaving on July 28 and they’ll be here for five
years,” Benavides said in an interview in Lima yesterday.
“They’re the ones that need to give clear signals.”  Peru’s benchmark stock index plunged 12 percent, the most
on record, June 6 on concern Humala, a one-time ally of
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , will pursue market-unfriendly
policies. The nation’s stocks, bonds, and currency rose today
and yesterday as investors took advantage of the sell-off.  “It’s not necessary,” said Dancourt, who Bank of America-
Merrill Lynch said may be a candidate for central bank chief,
when asked about the offer to meet investors. “What we need now
is to concentrate on the transfer from one government to the
next, work on the different areas of national policy and not
only on the economic sector.”  ‘At Ease’  The government and central bank will boost liquidity in the
financial system if there is a “substantial” withdrawal of
funds in the coming weeks, said Benavides, who led Banco
Internacional del Peru, the country’s fourth largest bank, from
1994 to 2007. The contingency plan includes measures such as
lowering  reserve requirements , he said.  “It’s important to put the private sector at ease since it
has been the motor of investment,” Benavides said, adding that
there hasn’t been a “massive” withdrawal of funds from the
South American country. “People are watching and waiting.”  Dancourt said Benavides should have been more “prudent”
in calming the market ahead of the election.  Humala is committed to maintaining existing macroeconomic,
monetary and fiscal policies, said Dancourt, who is part of an
economic team set up by the president-elect to design a plan for
transition to government.  The government will likely post a  budget deficit  for a
third straight year, Dancourt said. Benavides projects a 2011
budget surplus equivalent to 0.2 percentage points of gross
domestic product.  Central Bank Job  Humala, a former army officer, said in an interview with
 CNN ’s Spanish-language channel yesterday that he will meet with
current bank chief Julio Velarde to decide whether he will keep
his job. Bank of America said in its report yesterday that
Dancourt poses more risk due to his “interventionist” stance
in favor of  capital controls  and taxing inflows. The report said
Humala’s Cabinet may include former deputy finance minister Kurt Burneo or economic consultant Raul Salazar as finance minister.  “We’re looking for figures who rather than party
membership, have solid morals and generate confidence” among
investors, Humala said in his first interview since winning the
June 5 elections. “Velarde is a competent person who has done a
good job over the years at his institution.”  Tripling Reserves  Since being appointed in 2006 to head the central bank,
Velarde, 58, has helped triple international reserves to a
record $46 billion and raised lending rates to a two-year high
to curb inflation, which has been the lowest in the region since
2006. He introduced measures including higher reserve
requirements for  bank deposits  to rein in lending, which jumped
20 percent from a year earlier.  Peru’s economy expanded 8.8 percent last year, the second
fastest pace in 16 years. Output slowed in the first quarter as
companies froze investment projects before the election and
government spending eased. The government last month cut its
2011 growth forecast to 6.5 percent from 7.5 percent.  Falling consumer prices, lower demand for credit and
slowing economic growth justify a pause by the central bank at
its meeting tomorrow, Benavides said.  Humala, who defeated Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori in the
June 5 presidential runoff, said yesterday he’ll visit  Venezuela 
and regional allies Bolivia and  Ecuador  as part of a
international tour before taking office.  The current government’s proposal to raise the limit on
private pension funds’ investment overseas to 50 percent from 30
percent shouldn’t be approved by congress, Dancourt said.  “I don’t think the bill was prudent,” he said. “You have
to be careful about the effect these sort of things have on the
 exchange rate  and the economy. I don’t think it should be
approved.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Murphy in Lima at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  