-- 
Humala May Keep Bank Chief to Calm Peru Markets Even While Visiting Chavez

-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-06-08T01:47:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/humala-may-keep-bank-chief-to-calm-peru-markets-even-while-visiting-chavez.html
Peru’s President-elect Ollanta Humala
said he will meet with central bank president Julio Velarde to
decide whether to ask the official to continue at his post.  Humala told  CNN  en Espanol that he plans to travel to the
U.S. and countries in the region including Venezuela,  Brazil ,
Ecuador and Bolivia before taking office July 28. Humala said he
has yet to choose his ministerial cabinet.  “We’re looking for figures who rather than party
membership, have solid morals and generate confidence” among
investors, Humala said in his first interview since winning the
June 5 elections. “Velarde is a competent person who has done a
good job over the years at his institution.”  The Lima General Index posted the biggest drop since at
least 1990 yesterday after Humala, a former military rebel,
defeated investor-friendly Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori,
prompting the exchange to suspend trading for the first time
since October 2008. The sol sank 0.9 percent to 2.7890 per  U.S.
dollar . Yields on dollar-denominated bonds due 2037 rose 19
basis points, or 0.19 percentage point, to 5.93 percent.  Yesterday’s decline on the stock market created buying
opportunities, Humala said. Today, the Lima Index rebounded 7
percent to 19,881.10, while the extra yield investors demand to
hold Peru dollar debt instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 19
basis points to 196. The Peruvian sol strengthened 0.1 percent
to 2.7865 per U.S. dollar.  Emulating Lula  To appease voters concerned his proposals could destabilize
the $153 billion economy, Humala distanced himself during the
campaign from Venezuela’s  Hugo Chavez , saying he would emulate
the policies of former Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva . In a March 23 interview, Humala said he hasn’t visited
 Venezuela  since 2006, when he appeared at a ceremony with
Chavez.  Since being appointed in 2006 to head the central bank,
Velarde, 58, has helped triple international reserves to a
record $46 billion and raised lending rates to a two-year high
to curb inflation, which has been the lowest in the region since
2006.  Velarde, who holds a doctorate in economics from Brown
University, introduced measures including raising  reserve
requirements  for  bank deposits  to rein in lending, which jumped
20 percent from a year earlier.  Peru’s courts will decide whether former President  Alberto Fujimori , sentenced to 25 years for corruption and human rights
abuses, will be transferred to a common jail from a police
holding facility, Humala said.  Humala’s brother Antauro Humala, also serving a 25-year
prison sentence for killing four policemen during the takeover
of the southern highland town of Andahuaylas in 2005, will
remain in prison, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at  