-- 
Humala Aide Says Peru May Review Too Fast Regional Stock Exchange Merger

-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y   a n d   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-06-09T16:05:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/humala-aide-says-peru-may-review-too-fast-regional-stock-exchange-merger.html
The integration of  stock trading  in
Peru,  Colombia  and  Chile  was done “too quickly” and Peru’s
President-elect Ollanta Humala may renegotiate parts of the
arrangement if benefits aren’t fairly shared, economic adviser
Kurt Burneo said.  The combined exchange, which began May 30, will be
evaluated by Humala’s government after it takes office July 28
to weigh the “pros and cons, benefits and costs,” Burneo said
in an interview yesterday in Lima.  “Before we talk about renegotiation, the first thing we
have to do is a better evaluation because we feel it was done
too quickly,” said Burneo, who was deputy finance minister in
the government of former President  Alejandro Toledo . The Humala
team feels “there is asymmetry in the distribution of benefits
as a consequence of the integration,” he said.  MILA, as the exchange is known, allows cross-border
transactions between the three nations, creating  Latin America ’s
second-biggest stock market after  Brazil . Mexico and  Panama  may
join as part of an agreement signed in April and Bogota and Lima
have said they plan to take the arrangement a step further by
completing the region’s first corporate merger of exchanges.  Peru’s benchmark stock index plunged a record 12 percent
the day after Humala, a one-time ally of Venezuelan President
 Hugo Chavez , beat Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori in a June 5
runoff election.  Still, investors remain wary of Humala, whose original
government platform called for changing the constitution to give
the state a stronger role in the economy, including its ports
and pension fund system, and unilaterally increasing mining
royalties.  Respect Contracts  Burneo, who said he would consider the post of finance
minister if offered, said Humala will respect existing contracts
with mining companies. The new government would ask companies to
contribute more taxes while ensuring Peru’s mining industry
remains competitive with others such as Canada and  Australia ,
Burneo said. No new taxes will be introduced, he said.  “We will respect accords with companies that have tax
stability contracts,” said Burneo. “There’s an extraordinary
situation with high prices, and the state has the legitimate
right to charge taxes, not expect a handout from companies.”  The  Lima  General Index rose for a third day, advancing 2.5
percent to 21,091.86 at 11:59 a.m. New York time. Bogota’s IGBC
Index was little changed and Santiago’s IPSA Index fell 0.2
percent.  Social Programs  Financing for Humala’s social programs would come from
reducing  tax evasion  and boosting economic growth, said Burneo,
who said Humala’s advisory group includes a minority of hard-
line “leftists.”  “The bulk of the financing of the programs won’t come from
mining,” Burneo said. “It’s too volatile because it’s linked
to international prices.”  Mining companies wouldn’t be treated as they are in
Venezuela and  Ecuador , Burneo said, without elaborating.  “That would be like shooting ourselves in the foot,” he
said. “How can we promote private investment if we do that?
It’s impossible. We are clear that to have a redistributive
policy, the economy has to grow. If we adversely affect private
investment we are cutting the possibility to grow sustainably.”  Burneo welcomed an offer from Finance Minister Ismael Benavides made during a June 7 interview to help the new
economic team calm investors’ fears and said Humala would likely
consider it if he receives a formal proposal. It’s “too soon”
to consider issuing new debt this year, Burneo said.  Free Trade Review  Humala will look into the wording of  Peru ’s free trade
accord with the U.S. to judge how the platform creates
competition for Peru, Burneo said. Only under the most “extreme
cases” would the new government seek to renegotiate parts of
the deal, he said.  “Free trade agreements are an excellent opportunity to
enter markets that are much bigger than our own,” Burneo said.  The new government would shelve President  Alan Garcia ’s
proposal to raise the limit on private pension funds’ investment
overseas to 50 percent from 30 percent if it’s not approved in
the current congressional session, he said.  Humala’s team won’t be announced until Peru’s electoral
board officially declares him the winner of the president race,
Burneo said. The President-elect will announce his economic plan
for the first 100 days of government within two weeks, Burneo
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helen Murphy in Lima at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net ;
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  