-- 
Hungary Budget Plan to Help Risk Profile, Central Bank Says

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-06-08T13:54:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/hungary-budget-plan-to-help-risk-profile-central-bank-says-1-.html
The Hungarian government’s plan to
cut public debt may improve the country’s risk profile, central
bank policy makers said, according to the minutes of last
month’s rate meeting.  The government’s commitment to the plan, “detailing
specific steps and their implementation may have a positive
impact on the country’s risk assessment,” rate setters said in
the minutes of their May 16 meeting posted today on the
Budapest-based Magyar Nemzeti Bank’s  website .  Fitch Ratings  raised the outlook on Hungary’s credit rating
to stable June 6, citing government plans to reduce the biggest
debt among the European Union’s eastern members. Moody’s
Investors Service maintains a negative outlook on Hungary
because of concern about government policy, Central Europe
General Manager Petr Vins said today. Fitch rates Hungary BBB-
and Moody’s Baa3, the companies’ lowest investment grades.  Policy makers voted unanimously to keep the benchmark
interest rate at 6 percent for a fourth month in May, the
minutes show. Hungary’s inflation rate may drop close to the
central bank target of 3 percent by the end of next year without
further changes in the benchmark rate, policy makers said.  Hungarian government notes maturing in June 2022 weakened,
lifting the yield 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
7.096 percent at 3:04 p.m. in Budapest, snapping three days of
gains. The forint depreciated 0.4 percent to 266.3 per euro.  Hungary plans savings of 550 billion forint ($3 billion) in
2012, rising to 900 billion forint annually in 2013 and 2014,
Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said March 1. The measures
include a delay in cutting corporate income tax, extending a
temporary bank tax and stricter retirement and welfare rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Agnes Lovasz at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net  