-- 
Union Properties Plans $545 Million Debt Cut to Support Loan Restructuring

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 
2011-06-08T07:47:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/union-properties-plans-545-million-debt-cut-to-aid-loan-revamp.html
Union Properties PJSC (UPP) , Dubai’s
second-biggest developer by assets, plans to repay 2 billion
dirhams ($545 million) of debt this year to cut interest costs
and win bank support to restructure other loans.  The builder of Dubai’s Index Tower is seeking to convince
banks including  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  to delay repayment on an
additional 3.5 billion dirhams to 4 billion dirhams for five
years, Chairman Khalid Bin Kalban said in a telephone interview
from  Frankfurt  yesterday. Union Properties also repaid 2 billion
dirhams in 2010, he said.  “We are pre-paying so we can sit and negotiate with the
banks on restructuring some of the debt that will be left,” Bin
Kalban said. The company is seeking to pay interest only and
delay the principle repayment until 2016.  Union Properties has been in discussions with lenders for
almost three months and the response has been “positive,” Bin
Kalban said. The developer is repaying debt this year with the
1.1 billion dirhams it raised from selling the Ritz Carlton
Hotel and another 900 million dirhams from property sales, he
said.  The shares fell 0.9 percent to 0.43 dirham at 11:28 a.m. in
Dubai. They have gained 18 percent so far this year.  The company is currently evaluating all its unsold
properties as part of a plan to sell the assets as a package,
the chairman said. Though no potential buyers have emerged, Bin
Kalban said he expects interest to increase once the assessment
is complete. He estimated the value at 1.5 billion dirhams to
1.7 billion dirhams.  ‘Reasonable Return’  “The return on liquid funds or cash is actually
diminishing, so there are investors who are looking at
reasonable return on their money” from other assets, he said.  Union Properties is also planning to complete construction
of two hotels in the MotorCity development in “the coming few
months,” Bin Kalban said. The Marriot Courtyard and the
Renaissance hotel are 50 percent to 70 percent complete, he
said. The company will award a construction contract worth about
350 million dirhams for the projects before the end of the
summer, he said.  First-quarter profit rose 64 percent to 82 million dirhams
from a year earlier, the company said on May 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 