-- 
Turks Give Erdogan High Marks Before Election, Pew Survey Shows

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-06-08T07:12:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/turks-give-erdogan-high-marks-before-election-pew-survey-shows.html
Turks are increasingly positive about
the direction of their country and give Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan high marks on foreign affairs and the economy, a
 survey  by the Pew Research Center released yesterday shows.  Forty-nine percent of Turks said they were satisfied with
the way things are going, an increase since 2009 when about
three-quarters felt the country was on the wrong track,
according to the survey by Washington-based Pew.  The findings were “strongly associated with religiosity,”
the survey said. Respondents who said they prayed five times a
day had a satisfaction rate of 64 percent, double that of Turks
who report hardly ever praying, the survey showed.  Erdogan’s party has roots in Islamist movements and has
challenged some of the restrictions on religion imposed by
Turkey’s secular constitution.  Confidence in Turkey’s economic condition has risen from 14
percent in the months before Erdogan’s party was elected in 2002
to 49 percent today. On foreign affairs, 62 percent said they
had confidence in the prime minister to do the right thing.  Erdogan is also popular in the  Middle East , with strong
majorities of Egyptians, Jordanians and Lebanese expressing a
lot or some confidence in him. He is less popular in the
Palestinian territories, with 52 percent saying they have
confidence in him and 47 percent saying they don’t. In Israel,
95 percent of the Jewish population expressed little or no
confidence in him, Pew said.  Europe  Negative  Erdogan also gets poor marks from Europe, with clear
majorities in  Spain ,  Germany  and  France  giving him a “negative
assessment,” the report said.  Turks still favor joining the European Union, with 52
percent supporting accession and 42 percent opposing, Pew said.
Younger Turks are more likely to favor joining the bloc, the
survey showed.  The Turkish survey was conducted in face-to-face interviews
with 1,000 Turks across the country between March 21 and April
12. The margin of error is 4 percentage points. Pew conducted
similar polls in other countries.  Erdogan is bidding for a third term in elections on June
12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Benjamin Harvey  in Ankara at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 