-- 
Wal-Mart’s Asda Chain May Broaden Price Guarantee to Non-Food

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-06-08T15:18:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/wal-mart-asda-chain-says-it-may-broaden-price-guarantee-to-non-food-items.html
Asda, the U.K. supermarket chain
owned by  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , may broaden a guarantee to sell
grocery items 10 percent cheaper than rivals to non-food
products such as electronics and toys.  “We’ll look to keep extending the Asda price guarantee,”
Chief Executive Officer Andy Clarke said in an interview at the
British Retail Consortium symposium in London today. “It seems
a natural extension to broaden the ranges, including non-food.”  Asda, the second-largest U.K. supermarket chain, guarantees
that a fixed basket of grocery products is 10 percent cheaper
than rivals or it will refund the difference. The retailer has 3
million customers that check prices because of the guarantee,
the executive said, adding that price transparency is becoming
more important with the prevalence of Internet retailers.  “To see what price you’re paying is going to become even
more important for general merchandise,” Clarke said. Apparel
is “slightly more difficult” because of fashion trends.  Clarke said electronics, home wares and seasonal items like
toys “are market opportunities where Mum this Christmas will be
thinking really hard when they’re shopping for Santa.”  Sales growth at Leeds, England-based Asda slowed in the
first quarter of the year as customers faced rising inflation,
higher taxes and record gasoline prices. Revenue at stores open
at least a year rose 0.8 percent, excluding value-added tax and
adjusting for a later Easter holiday, Asda said last month. That
was less than the previous quarter’s 1.6 percent growth.  Tougher Month  May was a tougher month for Asda than April, Clarke said
today, echoing earlier comments by  Philip Clarke , the CEO of
rival Tesco Plc. The Asda executive said he expects shoppers to
continue watching their spending this year as fuel prices rise.  Own-label products such as the Chosen By You range, which
Asda spent 100 million pounds ($164 million) relaunching, have
been performing ahead of expectations, Clarke said.  Media speculation that Asda has appointed Lazard to advise
on a possible bid for Iceland Foods Ltd., the U.K.-based frozen-
food chain, is “unfounded,” Clarke said. Asda bought some
former Somerfield Plc outlets after that company’s 2008 takeover
by Co-operative Group Ltd. and should some Iceland stores become
available “we would look at them,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  