-- 
Wall Street Bets on Reinsurance After Record Japan Earthquake

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-06-08T00:59:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/wall-street-investors-bet-on-reinsurance-as-rates-rise-after-japan-s-quake.html
Wall Street investors who started
reinsurers after  Hurricane Katrina  in 2005 are again increasing
bets on the industry to profit from higher rates, this time with
a focus on limiting their time commitments.  Money managers are cooperating with reinsurers after
 Japan ’s earthquake this year by supplying funds to back new
coverage instead of setting up their own carriers to compete.
That strategy may prove profitable to both investors and
companies whose returns were crimped since 2007 by price
declines, said Peter Hearn, chairman of  Willis Group Holdings
Plc (WSH) ’s reinsurance brokerage.  “I think the cautionary tale from 2005 is: The easiest
thing is to get into the reinsurance business, the hardest is to
get out,” Hearn said yesterday at the Bloomberg Link Japan
conference in New York. “Permanent capital rushed in, the
market spiked and it came right back down in 2007, a fairly
short window to benefit from the increased pricing.”  Stone Point Capital LLC, the private-equity firm overseen
by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Director  Stephen Friedman ,
contributed $100 million in April to a pool of funds that
reinsurer  Alterra Capital Holdings Ltd. (ALTE)  is using to write new
policies.  Validus Holdings Ltd. (VR)  and  RenaissanceRe Holdings Ltd. (RNR) 
each announced deals this month to raise capital from investors.  The funding agreements, known as sidecars, have a limited
life span and give investors the opportunity to bet on
reinsurance risks in periods of rising prices, Kenneth Pierce,
global coordinating leader of insurance at law firm Mayer Brown
LLP, said in an April report. First-quarter natural disasters,
including the March 11 earthquake in Japan and floods in
 Australia , may increase their use, he said.  Insured Losses  Total insured losses from catastrophes in the first three
months of 2011 may exceed $50 billion, insurance broker Aon
Corp. estimated. Matthias Weber, head of property and specialty
at Swiss Re, the world’s second-biggest reinsurer, said prices
for earthquake coverage rose as much as 60 percent in Japan on
April 1 when contracts were renewed. Katrina, which devastated
 New Orleans , cost the industry $62.2 billion, according to
estimates by  Munich Re , the largest reinsurer.  Reinsurers created in the Class of 2005 by banks, private
equity and  hedge funds  have turned to mergers in the past two
years to gain scale and return capital to investors. Stone Point
became the biggest shareholder of newly created Alterra last
year when its privately held Harbor Point Ltd. combined with Max
Capital Group Ltd. In 2009, Validus bought IPC Holdings Ltd.  Investors seeking to bet on reinsurers may choose to buy
catastrophe bonds. The securities pay higher-than-benchmark
yields to investors who risk losing their principal in the event
of disasters that meet predefined conditions.  Munich Re  At least one cat bond, a $300 million security sponsored by
Munich Re, was wiped out as a result of the Japan disaster,
according to an April  report  from Willis. The bond responded as
people would have expected, which was “ultimately a good thing
for the cat-bond industry,” said Jeremy Goodman, executive
managing director at Aon Benfield, a unit of Aon, the world’s
largest insurance broker.  “If there had been a loss of this magnitude and that bond
hadn’t responded, I think people might have started to question
the validity of cat bonds,” he said at the Bloomberg Link Japan
conference.  Issuance of the securities in the first three months of the
year set a first-quarter record as Munich Re, Swiss Re,  Hartford
Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG)  and Chubb Corp. sold $1.02 billion
in four transactions, according to Willis. That compares with
$650 million new issues in the first quarter of 2010. More of
the securities may be sold as reinsurance rates rise.  “Historically, we have seen a positive correlation between
cat-bonds issuance and reinsurance prices,” Weber of Swiss Re
said at the conference. “When prices go up, typically soon
after the number of cat bonds increase a little bit.”  The Swiss Re Cat Bond Price Return Index has declined about
5 percent since the March 11 earthquake, as yields have climbed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  