-- 
WaMu Delays Bankruptcy Hearing to Complete Shareholder Deal

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-06-08T19:19:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/wamu-delays-bankruptcy-hearing-to-complete-shareholder-deal-1-.html
Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ)  rescheduled a
hearing on its reorganization plan to gain time to negotiate a
settlement with shareholders of the bankrupt former owner of the
biggest U.S. bank to fail.  Brian Rosen, a WaMu attorney, today told U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Mary Walrath that the company seeks to reach a final
agreement with shareholders by June 17.  Last month, WaMu creditors approved the outline of a
settlement that would end their fight with shareholders who
accused the creditors of using confidential information to trade
in the company’s debt. That settlement hasn’t yet been
documented and signed, Rosen said.  “It is taking slightly longer than anticipated,” Rosen
told Walrath in Wilmington,  Delaware .  WaMu, based in  Seattle , filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 26,
2008, the day after its banking unit was taken over by
regulators and sold to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for $1.9 billion.
Washington Mutual Bank was the biggest bank to fail in U.S.
history, with more than 2,200 branches and $188 billion in
deposits.  Walrath has given shareholders permission to question  hedge
funds  that hold WaMu notes under oath and collect documents
about their WaMu trades. Depositions of the hedge funds were
scheduled to begin last month.  Nothing for Shareholders  Should the tentative deal among WaMu, the hedge funds and
shareholders fall apart, WaMu would go ahead with its current
reorganization plan on July 5, Rosen said. That plan would give
shareholders nothing.  Under the settlement, shareholders would drop their
investigation of the hedge funds in exchange for common equity
in the new company and funding for a litigation trust that would
try to raise money through lawsuits. The trust would be funded
initially with $5 million and later have access to as much as
$25 million more, WaMu said.  Walrath said that if the settlement goes forward, at the
July 5 hearing WaMu could either seek approval of a new
disclosure statement for a new reorganization plan based on the
deal, or set a schedule for approving the new plan.  A new disclosure statement may require a new round of
voting by creditors before Walrath can decide whether to approve
the plan.  Director Suit  In a separate ruling, Walrath allowed a group of creditors
that hold warrants they claim are valued at about $350 million
to sue WaMu’s directors.  The so-called Litigation Tracking Warrants are tied to a
successful lawsuit WaMu inherited when it took over Dime Bancorp
in 2002. WaMu won the lawsuit, which related to the savings and
loan crisis of the 1980s, against the U.S. government.  A judge in the lawsuit awarded damages of at least $350
million, Arthur Steinberg, an attorney for the warrant holders,
said in an interview.  The holders of the litigation tracking warrants say that
money is theirs. WaMu says the warrants were converted to
company stock, which may be worthless should the shareholder
settlement fall through and Walrath approve the current
reorganization plan.  The case is In re Washington Mutual Inc., 08-12229. The
warrants case is Broadbill Investment Corp. v. Washington
Mutual, Inc., 10-50911. Both are in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 