-- 
War on Women Is 2012 Democratic Rallying Theme Against Republicans

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-06-08T20:01:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/war-on-women-is-2012-democratic-rallying-theme-against-republicans.html
Democrats and allied groups including
Emily’s List are framing Republican moves to cut federal
spending as a war on women, an effort aimed at influencing the
2012 elections.  Support from women voters helped propel Republican gains in
the 2010 elections. Democrats are hoping to reverse that next
year by arguing that measures including the Republican push to
end traditional Medicare would disproportionately affect women,
who live longer than men.  Republican efforts to repeal collective-bargaining rights
for public employees also are being characterized as anti-woman.
For example, 73 percent of the  American Federation of Teachers’ 
1.5 million members are female.  Analysts say the success of the Democratic message likely
would increase the party’s chances of holding the White House
and Senate, and possibly winning a House majority.  “The Republicans have handed the Democrats a gift,” said
Leonie Huddy, a political science professor at Stony Brook
University in New York. “If they play it right, they have
exactly the issue that will attract women voters to them.”  Concerned over the  U.S. economy , women backed Republican
congressional candidates a year ago by 49 percent to 48 percent,
according to a  CNN exit poll , a break with the traditional
support female voters have provided Democrats. Four years
earlier, when Democrats ended 12 years of Republican control on
 Capitol Hill , they  received  55 percent of women’s votes.  Obama Support  In 2008, Democratic presidential nominee  Barack Obama 
received the votes of  56 percent  of women compared with 49
percent of men.  Last month, Democrat Kathy Hochul benefited from efforts to
galvanize women voters in winning a special election in New
York’s Republican-leaning 26th Congressional District. Emily’s
List, which supports female Democrats who back abortion rights,
and Planned Parenthood helped Hochul make the Republican plan to
end traditional Medicare the centerpiece of her campaign.  “Women rightfully feel more economically vulnerable,”
said Debbie Walsh, director of the Center for American Women and
Politics at Rutgers University’s Eagleton Institute in  New
Brunswick ,  New Jersey . “They’re aligning themselves with the
political party they believe is more supportive of maintaining
that social safety net.”  Medicare Issue  The House Republican budget bill passed in April, proposed
by Representative Paul Ryan of  Wisconsin , would end traditional
Medicare for anyone turning 65 in 2022 and later. Instead,
future seniors would receive subsidies to buy private insurance.
The  Congressional Budget Office  estimated that most seniors
would pay more for health care under Ryan’s plan.  A May 25-30  poll  by the Pew Research Center for the People
and the Press found just 32 percent of women -- and 25 percent
of women 50 and older -- supporting Ryan’s plan. Among men, 39
percent supported it, as did 33 percent of those 50 and older.
The survey of 1,509 adults had a margin of error of 3.5
percentage points.  Emily’s List cited the Medicare plan as it singled out nine
House Republican freshmen as its first targets next year, months
earlier than in the last election. They are Paul Gosar of
 Arizona , Allen West of  Florida , Robert Dold and Adam Kinzinger
of  Illinois , Chip Cravaack of  Minnesota , Joe Heck of  Nevada ,
Frank Guinta and Charlie Bass of New Hampshire and Steve Stivers
of  Ohio .  Meetings With Candidates  NARAL Pro-Choice America, a Washington-based group that
supports abortion rights, has been meeting with prospective
candidates it might back since January, earlier than usual for
the group. It’s also updating its voter guide on women’s issues
rather than waiting until a few months before the elections.  “We’re getting out there a lot sooner,” said Elizabeth
Shipp, NARAL’s political director.  To help increase turnout next year among women likely to
support her party, Democratic Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of  New
York  has created a  website  and Facebook page. The effort is
called “Off the Sidelines,” and Gillibrand cites Medicare and
other budget cuts Republicans have proposed as reasons for women
to get involved in politics.  Some women “don’t understand or feel politics is relevant
to them,” Gillibrand said. “Until we put all the issues on the
table, it’s going to be difficult to get them off the
sidelines.”  Planned Parenthood Dispute  Issues that have spurred the heightened political activity
by Democratic-leaning women’s groups include the vote in April
by the Republican-controlled House to cut off federal funding
for Planned Parenthood because it offers abortions in some
locations. The organization focuses on providing  health services 
for women, including cancer screenings.  Republican lawmakers also have proposed funding cuts for
the Women, Infants and Children nutrition program that would
leave up to 475,000 low-income recipients of the aid without
federal help, according to the  Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities , a Washington-based research group.  The Republican budget plan “is principally distinguished
by one thing: It is hard on women and children, from birth to
old age,” said U.S. Representative Carolyn Maloney, a New York
Democrat.  Republicans say the budget cuts are necessary to shrink the
deficit and improve the economy, as they pledged to do in the
2010 campaign. They express confidence that public concern over
these issues will undercut the Democratic pitch to women voters.  Message Game  “This is exactly the place Democrats always go when they
realize they’re losing the message game and become desperate,”
said Joanna Burgos, a spokeswoman for the  National Republican
Congressional Committee.  “Unfortunately for them, Americans
know that Republicans were the ones who shifted the debate in
 Washington  to one of cutting spending and growing the economy.”  Republican-allied women’s groups are helping make the
party’s case. The Washington-based  Susan B. Anthony List , which
opposes abortion and spent $1.8 million last year in support of
Republican congressional candidates, ran radio ads in April
against Democratic Senators Bob Casey of  Pennsylvania , Claire McCaskill of  Missouri  and Ben Nelson of  Nebraska , criticizing
them for supporting Planned Parenthood.  “America just doesn’t want their money wrapped up in
abortion, especially when things are fiscally tight,” SBA List
President Marjorie Dannenfelser said.  The Democratic-leaning women’s groups see evidence that
their arguments are making headway.  Online Petition  An online Planned Parenthood petition opposing the push to
cut the group’s funding garnered 810,000 names, expanding the
group’s mailing list by more than 400,000, said spokesman Tait
Sye. The group’s Facebook fans grew to 173,000 in May from
100,000 in January.  Emily’s List collected 80,000 e-mail addresses on two
 websites  it set up to oppose Republican proposals.  “Republicans are waging war against the very things that
keep women and their families thriving,” said Jess McIntosh, a
spokeswoman for Emily’s List. “That is a huge motivator for
women to run and for women voters to turn out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 