-- 
Congressman Weiner Just the Latest Politician to Admit Sexual Indiscretion

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-06-08T21:15:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/weiner-joins-politicians-admitting-sexual-indiscretions-1-.html
U.S. Representative Anthony Weiner’s
admission that he had inappropriate online exchanges with
several women adds his name to a list of politicians who endured
embarrassment to stay in office or saw their careers ruined over
sexual scandals.  The outcome largely depends on a politician’s record and
the “shock value” of the act, said Andrew Kohut, president of
the Washington-based Pew Research Center.  “If the politician has been successful and has earned a
lot of credit with the public for his performance, then the
public will say ‘That’s his personal problem, and we still find
him acceptable,’” Kohut said.  For Weiner, a popular Democratic seven-term congressman
from  Brooklyn  with aspirations of being mayor of New York City,
the outcome may be mixed.  “He’s cooked, done, finished” in any quest to be mayor,
said  Maurice Carroll , director of the  Quinnipiac University
Polling Institute  in Hamden,  Connecticut . “In his district, I’m
inclined to think he can hang on.”  Weiner, 46, who has been married for almost a year and said
he doesn’t plan to resign his House seat, tearfully apologized
at a June 6 news conference in New York for sending the photos
and messages. Yet he also said the admission shouldn’t reflect
on his performance in office. House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat, has called for an ethics
committee investigation.  ‘Silly Adolescent’  “Did he look like a dope, like a silly adolescent? Yeah,
but is that enough to kick him out of Congress? I don’t think
so,” Carroll said.  Similar opinions were found in a telephone poll conducted
within hours of Weiner’s news conference, of 500  New York 
adults, 379 of whom were registered voters. The  NY1-Marist poll ,
sponsored by the New York news channel NY1 and the Marist
College Institute for Public Opinion in Poughkeepsie, New York,
found that 56 percent of those surveyed don’t want Weiner to run
for mayor, while 51 percent believe that he shouldn’t resign
from Congress. The poll has a margin of error of plus or minus 5
percentage points.  Resignation Call  Representative Allyson Schwartz, the Pennsylvania Democrat
in charge of recruiting candidates to run for the House in 2012,
today became the first Democrat in Congress to call on Weiner to
resign.  “Having the respect of your constituents is fundamental
for a member of Congress,” she said in a statement. “In light
of Anthony Weiner’s offensive behavior online, he should
resign.”  Former Democratic National Committee Chairman  Tim Kaine 
called on Weiner yesterday to give up his House seat.  “Lying publicly about something like this is unforgivable,
and he should resign,” Kaine, who is running for the  U.S.
Senate  in  Virginia ,  told  a Charlottesville television station.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  refused to defend
Weiner’s behavior, telling reporters yesterday that his advice
to the congressman, if he called, would be “call someone
else.”  “I wish there was some way I can defend him, but I
can’t,” said Reid, a Nevada Democrat.  Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus
attacked Democratic leaders for not pushing Weiner harder to
resign.  ‘He Should Go’  “Do we really need an ethics committee investigation to
determine if this guy’s a creep or not?” Priebus said today at
a Bloomberg Breakfast. “I think he should go.”  Weiner first won election to his House seat in 1998. Since
then, Carroll said, he has worked the district “door to door”
-- and won re-election to a seventh term last November with 61
percent of the vote.  Over the last five years, sex scandals led to the
resignation of four members of the  House of Representatives  and
ruined the careers of a former vice presidential nominee and
presidential candidate, two governors of New York, a governor of
 South Carolina  and two U.S. senators.  Clinton’s Affair  The most obvious survivor of sexual dalliances is former
President  Bill Clinton , whose affair with White House intern
Monica Lewinsky was fodder for comedians long after he left
office.  Polls showed that while many thought Clinton’s acts were
“sleazy,” they still considered him a good president who was
smart and charming, Carroll said. “Even if you go into a room
hating him, you come out 20 minutes later and you are ready to
make him the pope.”  Whether politicians can survive politically depends on who
they are and where they come from, said Carroll. In a large
media market like  New York City , he said, coverage of the Weiner
story could fade in a few days.  The situation was different for another former House
member, Christopher Lee, a Republican from Upstate New York, who
resigned his seat in February after the website Gawker reported
that the married lawmaker had e-mailed a shirtless picture of
himself to a woman he met through the website Craigslist.  Public Interest  Sustained public interest in a story doesn’t bode well for
politicians, as was the case with then-South Carolina Governor
Mark Sanford, said Kohut.  In June 2009 Sanford, a Republican, confessed to an
extramarital affair and to visiting his lover in  Argentina 
without informing his staff or his security team of his
whereabouts. He remained in office until his term ended in
January of this year, though he was censured by the state
legislature and those final months took on a sideshow quality.  “The longer the saga goes on, the greater the fallout,”
said Kohut.  It also doesn’t help if politicians have portrayed
themselves as moralists and then get caught up in a scandal, he
said.  In March 2008, New York Governor  Eliot Spitzer , a Democrat,
resigned after his dealings with prostitutes were exposed. In
his previous career as New York’s attorney general, he crusaded
against illicit activities.  Inappropriate E-Mails  House Republican leaders suffered some political damage
before the 2006 elections amid suggestions that they didn’t
react aggressively enough after learning that then-
Representative Mark Foley, a Florida Republican, sent
inappropriate e-mails to a teenage congressional page. Foley
resigned over the incident.  An exception is Senator David Vitter, a Louisiana
Republican who was identified in 2007 as being a client of an
escort service. He was re-elected last November with 57 percent
of the vote.  “There have been so many in recent times that some of them
have lost their shock value,” Kohut said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  