-- 
Wells Fargo Says Economy Expands at Steady Pace With Drag From Bank Rules

-- B y   R i c k   G r e e n
-- 
2011-06-08T14:22:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/wells-fargo-finance-chief-sees-slow-steady-growth-in-economy.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ’s finance chief
told analysts the  U.S. economy  is growing at a “slow but
steady” pace even as new regulations put a drag on business.  The June 3 jobless report, in which the  unemployment rate 
climbed to 9.1 percent for May, was just “one week of data,”
Chief Financial Officer Timothy Sloan said today during a
conference sponsored by Deutsche Bank AG. Commercial and
wholesale lending have picked up, and Sloan is more optimistic
about their outlook than a month ago, he said.  Bank executives have said the economy has been slowed by
new rules and higher  capital requirements  designed to prevent a
repeat of the 2008 financial crisis. JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  publicly asked Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  yesterday whether overzealous
regulation is holding back growth.  “It feels like we’re going a little bit too far,” Sloan
said. Wells Fargo’s financial strength and liquidity mean the
bank shouldn’t need to be subjected to the strictest capital
requirements, he said.  Wells Fargo is the biggest U.S. home lender and has the
largest branch network. The San Francisco-based bank ranks
fourth by assets, and it’s also among lenders targeted by state
attorneys general in their probe of foreclosure practices by
mortgage servicers. The company ranks second behind  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based Bank of America Corp. in the business of
billing and collections.  Mortgage Probe  Sloan said his company is making progress in negotiations
to settle the probe, which is examining whether lenders took
improper legal shortcuts, including the use of false documents,
to seize homes from overdue borrowers. One sticking point is a
demand that banks forgive principal on loans they service, even
if they don’t own them, he said.  “We’ll never agree to that,” Sloan said. “That makes
absolutely no sense.”  Wells Fargo advanced 11 cents to $25.88 at 10:08 a.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The company has
slipped about 16 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 