-- 
Wells Fargo Agrees to Pay $32 Million to Settle Bias Lawsuit

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-08T20:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/wells-fargo-agrees-to-pay-32-million-to-settle-bias-lawsuit.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  agreed to pay
$32 million to settle a lawsuit alleging its subsidiary Wachovia
Securities LLC discriminated against female financial advisers
by blocking career advancement and paying them less than men.  Wells Fargo and lawyers for a class of about 1,200
plaintiffs asked a federal judge in  Washington  today to approve
the terms of the settlement, which calls for internal changes
aimed at promoting female advisers and four years of monitoring
by outside counsel.  U.S. District Judge Colleen Kollar Kotelly said that she
had no problems with the core terms of the settlement agreement
and would issue a ruling “as fast as I can.”  The lawsuit was filed two years ago by three employees of
Wachovia Securities alleging the company had since 2003
systemically denied equal employment opportunities to its female
financial advisers, keeping women from moving into more
“prestigious roles” or management positions.  “While Wells Fargo Advisors has consistently denied the
allegations of discrimination, the firm believes resolving this
matter is in the best interests of the company,” Tony Mattera,
a Wells Fargo Advisors spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  The settlement, which was initially reached in December,
covers female financial advisers of Wells Fargo Advisors, A.G.
Edwards and Prudential Securities as of the date they joined the
firm, as well as female financial advisers at Wells Fargo
Investments as of the date of the merger between San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo and Wachovia in 2008, Mattera said.  Wachovia bought A.G. Edwards Inc. in 2007 and acquired
Prudential Financial Inc.’s brokerage unit in 2003.  Average Payout  Cyrus Mehri, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said in court
that the average payout from the settlement will be about
$18,000 a plaintiff. Under the terms of the settlement, the
plaintiffs’ lawyers will receive about $10.5 million in fees and
monitoring costs.  The case is Carter v. Wells Fargo Advisors LLC, 09-cv-
01752, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  