-- 
Treasuries Advance as Bernanke Says Record Stimulus Still Needed

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-06-08T11:54:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/two-to-10-year-treasury-yield-spread-near-two-week-high-before-beige-book.html
Treasuries rose as Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said record monetary stimulus is still
needed to support the economic recovery.  Yields on 10-year notes fell toward this year’s low before
the government’s $21 billion auction of the securities today and
a $13 billion offering of 30-year bonds tomorrow. The extra
yield investors demand to hold 30-year securities instead of
two-year debt was almost the highest since March on speculation
the central bank will keep borrowing costs low.  “Bernanke’s comments yesterday were on the dovish side,”
said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole
SA in London. “There’s been a move higher in Treasuries as
U.S. markets opened.”  Yields on 10-year notes dropped two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.97 percent at 7:49 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125 percent
securities maturing in May 2021 increased 6/32, or $1.88 per
$1,000 face amount, to 101 9/32.  The 10-year note yields fell on June 1 to 2.94 percent, the
lowest level since Dec. 7. Two-year note yields slid one basis
point to 0.40 percent today. The yields on 30-year bonds dropped
three basis points to 4.23 percent.  The difference in yield between two- and 30-year debt was
3.84 percentage points after increasing yesterday to 3.85
percentage points, the widest since March.  ‘Frustratingly Slow’  Record monetary stimulus is still needed to boost
a “frustratingly slow” recovery, said Bernanke at an Atlanta
conference yesterday, reiterating that a rise in inflation is
likely to prove temporary.  “The economy is still producing at levels well below its
potential; consequently, accommodative monetary policies are
still needed,” Bernanke said. At the same time, the Fed “will
take whatever actions are necessary to keep inflation well
controlled,” he said.  Bernanke said growth is likely to pick up in the second
half of the year as fuel prices recede and disruptions of parts
supplies dissipate as factories in  Japan  recover from the March
earthquake and tsunami.  Futures contracts showed the likelihood of an increase in
the Fed funds target by the March 2012 meeting fell to 23
percent, from 38 percent odds a month ago. The target rate for
overnight lending between banks has been zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008.  The Fed plans to  purchase  $5 billion to $7 billion of debt
maturing from June 2015 to November 2016 today under its
$600 billion second round of quantitative easing. The program,
also known as QE2, expires this month.  U.S. Payrolls  U.S. employers added less than a third the number of
workers in May than economists forecast, and the jobless rate
rose to 9.1 percent from 9 percent, the Labor Department
reported last week.  “The general sense in the market is that there’s going to
be another dip in economic growth and that we might need
QE3,” said Mark Schofield, head of interest-rate strategy at
Citigroup Inc. in  London . “The market is still very jumpy.
You’ve got a lot of people talking up every reason to buy. We’re
still in the camp that the economy is recovering and that yields
are headed higher toward the end of the year.”  Before today’s 10-year note sale, the securities yielded
2.99 percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 3.21 percent
at the previous offering May 11. Investors bid for 3 times the
amount on offer last month, compared with an average of 3.09 for
the past 10 sales.  Indirect Bidders  Indirect bidders, the category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, purchased 47.2 percent of the notes last
month, versus the 10-sale average of 51.1 percent.  Yesterday’s $32 billion auction of three-year notes drew
the highest demand from a group including foreign central banks
since January.  U.S. 10-year notes yielded less than the annual inflation
rate, with the so-called real yield at negative 19 basis points.  “We’re getting a bit stretched given that the real yield
is quite negative,” said Warren Potter, a bond portfolio
manager at AMP Capital Investors in Wellington,  New Zealand .
Yields can remain near current levels “until we see some
firming in the economic data,” he said.  Yields on 10-year notes will be at 3.75 percent by the end
of the year, according to  Peter Jolly , the Sydney-based head of
market research at the investment-banking unit of National
Australia Bank Ltd., the country’s largest lender by assets.  “Yields here are too low,” said Jolly, who expects the
 U.S. economy  to grow more strongly in the second half. “The
news is going to have to get much, much more negative for yields
to go lower.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  