-- 
Won’t You Be My (Hyper-Partisan) Neighbor?: Peter Orszag

-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 
2011-06-08T04:01:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/won-t-you-be-my-hyper-partisan-neighbor-peter-orszag.html
Our political system is so plagued by
polarization, it’s difficult to move any legislation forward. In
the late 1960s, significant overlap existed in votes cast by the
most conservative Democrats in Congress and those cast by the
most liberal Republicans. (See accompanying chart: Polarization
in Congress.) By the late 1980s, the common ground had
diminished. Today, it has virtually disappeared.  What’s causing this? Many people have said the problem is
that Congressional districts have been redrawn to be as partisan
as they can be, to keep politicians from each party in office as
long as possible. (Optimizing the district lines in this manner
is a  harder problem  than it may initially seem, as research by
two Harvard economists has shown.) Thomas Friedman, the New York
Times columnist, for one, has blamed “the gerrymandering of
political districts,” which made each one permanently
Republican or Democratic, for “erasing the political middle.”  So, presumably, we could solve the problem by simply
changing the rules on how congressional districts are drawn. A
closer look at Congress, however, shows that redistricting isn’t
a major cause of our polarization at all.  Compare, for example, historical trends in the House and
the Senate. Senate districts are states, so they aren’t
continually redrawn as congressional districts are. And yet the
polarization patterns in the House and Senate have broadly
tracked each other. (See accompanying chart: History of
Congress.) Polarization between the two parties was relatively
high in both houses for the first three decades of the 20th
century. It dipped in the House and Senate alike from the mid-
1930s until the late 1970s, and then began climbing to record
highs today.  Residential Segregation  If redistricting isn’t the primary force behind
polarization, what is? One crucial cause, as documented in “The
Big Sort,” a path-breaking book by  Bill Bishop  and Robert
Cushing, is increased residential segregation by political
party. We are voluntarily separating ourselves into Republican
and Democratic neighborhoods. Today’s media and blogosphere,
which increasingly filter news according to their point of view,
exacerbate and reinforce the effect.  Two maps (see accompanying maps: 1976 Election and 2008
Election), taken from a recent paper by James Thomson of the
RAND Corp., show the U.S. broken down by county (county lines
have also not been redistricted). The dark-shaded counties are
those that have swung hard one way or another in a presidential
election, and so are considered polarized, while the light
counties are politically mixed. The difference from 1976 to 2008
is striking: The number of light counties has fallen sharply.
Roughly 25 percent more of the  U.S. population  now lives in a
landslide county than did in the 1970s.  Losing Objectivity  The consequences are far-reaching. The social psychology
literature clearly shows that when like-minded people are put
together, they move to extremes -- both because they rarely hear
opposing viewpoints and because each person is at least somewhat
inclined to prove he is the true believer in the group.  The behavior is observed even among people who otherwise
strive to be quite objective, such as judges. Cass Sunstein, the
legal scholar who is now administrator of the White House Office
of Information and Regulatory Affairs, documents in his 2006
book  “Are Judges Political?  An Empirical Analysis of the
Federal Judiciary,” that judges appointed by Republican
presidents are more likely to vote in extreme ways if they are
grouped with other Republican-appointed judges than if they are
grouped with Democratic-appointed judges, and vice versa.  Red and Blue Neighborhoods  Why is this residential segregation happening? “The Big
Sort” argues that when families choose where to live, they look
for subtle signs that a neighborhood includes other people like
them. The consequences of this manifest in a variety of ways.
For example, certain cities now have growing concentrations of
highly educated families. As my Bloomberg View colleague Ed Glaeser has shown, cities with a large proportion of college
graduates in 1990 later experienced more rapid increases in the
number of residents with college degrees than other cities did.  So Americans are voluntarily creating red and blue
neighborhoods, and their divergent perspectives are reinforced
by the right-left divide found on television ( Fox News  versus
 MSNBC ) and online ( Huffington Post  versus Hot Air). The
polarization that results makes our political system, which was
never particularly good at dealing with any problem before it
became a crisis, suffer even more inertia.  Gridlock  The best bet on what will happen in  Washington  is,
therefore, nothing -- until and unless it has to. The Big Sort
generates gridlock, making it increasingly difficult for
lawmakers to tackle anything from  climate change  to budget
balancing.  Clearly, redistricting reform won’t help us much. Instead,
we should try to create a new set of rules and institutions that
can use legislative inertia to our benefit -- just as a growing
body of tools in the private sector, such as automatic-
enrollment 401(k) plans, are using inertia there to produce
better outcomes.  The Independent Payment Advisory Board , created to
constrain cost growth and improve quality in Medicare, without
new legislation, is one example of trying to leverage
legislative inertia. The key is that inaction by Congress allows
the IPAB’s recommendations to take effect.  Another example is the backstop fiscal trigger currently
being discussed as part of the debt-limit negotiations. With
this mechanism in place, congressional inaction would lead to
automatic spending cuts and/or revenue increases (and, by the
way, the trigger should include both). Here again, legislative
inaction wouldn’t mean failure to address a problem.  The era of gridlock government is unlikely to disappear
overnight. We might as well figure out how to function with it.  ( Peter Orszag  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  