-- 
World Bank Urges Rate Rises in Emerging Nations With Global Growth at 3.2%

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-06-08T08:42:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/world-bank-urges-rate-rises-in-emerging-nations-with-global-growth-at-3-2-.html
Emerging-market economies, growing
almost three times faster than their developed counterparts,
need to speed spending cuts and interest-rate increases as
they fight inflation and overheating, the  World Bank  said.  The Washington-based institution lowered its growth
forecast for the world economy this year to 3.2 percent from
a January estimate of 3.3 percent, to reflect Japan’s
earthquake and political unrest in the  Middle East  and North
Africa. The  World Bank  left unchanged a prediction for a
global rebound to 3.6 percent in 2012.  Developing countries  “have put the crisis-fighting
stage of the recovery behind them,” Andrew Burns, the World
Bank’s manager of global macroeconomics, told reporters
yesterday. “They now need to be reorienting themselves
towards establishing the conditions that are going to allow
them to have strong growth in years to come.”  While developed nations contend with high unemployment
and  Europe ’s debt crisis, many emerging economies with strong
expansions are yet to remove fiscal stimulus enacted to
cushion the global recession, according to the World Bank.
Real  interest rates  are low or negative in many countries
even as policy makers from India to  Peru  raise borrowing
costs, according to the bank.  China ’s Inflation  Developing nations also need more flexible currencies,
the World Bank’s Global Economic Prospects report said. In
China, the government is “very unlikely” to meet its 4
percent inflation target for the year, with the rate set to
stay at about 5 percent for “a few more months,” Ardo Hansson, the lender’s chief economist for China, said at a
briefing in Beijing.  The World Bank, which was established after World War II
to fight poverty, offers financial and technical assistance
to countries, including $1.5 billion in loans to help improve
India’s rural roads last year.  High-income economies are seen growing 2.2 percent this
year and 2.7 percent in 2012, the report said. That compares
with 6.3 percent and 6.2 percent in the emerging regions,
which include nations from  Indonesia  to  South Africa ,
according to the bank’s report.  U.S. Growth  The bank cut its forecast for a U.S. expansion to 2.6
percent this year from the January estimate of 2.8 percent.
The agency expects 2.9 percent growth next year and recent
economic data point to a “growth pause,” Burns said. He
said the bank doesn’t see a “double-dip” as likely in the
U.S.  Emerging markets now account for almost half of global
crude-oil demand and China absorbs 40 percent of the world’s
metal supplies, contributing to the increase in prices
observed since the recovery, the bank said in the report.  Oil
prices  are up 37 percent in the past year. Copper surged to a
record $10,190 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange on
Feb. 15 as mining companies struggled to keep pace with
rising consumption.  The commodities developments call for a change in
mindset from those countries, which have become key players
and must embrace the challenges and responsibilities that
come with it, Burns said.  India ’s Growth  “Developing countries are going to increasingly have to
not look at these as external events that are imposed upon
them,” such as an oil price shock, Burns said.
“Increasingly these are reflections of a strong growth that
they have.”  China’s growth will slow to 9.3 percent this year, from
10.3 percent in 2010, and be 8.7 percent in 2012, the bank
said. India will grow 8 percent this year and 8.4 percent
next year, it said.  The rise in commodity prices and strong capital inflows
have contributed to faster inflation, which in developing
countries was close to 7 percent in April from a year earlier,
more than 3 percentage points higher than in July 2009,
according to the report.  Policy makers “will need to make fuller use of all the
tools at their disposal to keep inflation under control,”
the World Bank said. “While the more unstable capital
inflows that characterized the third quarter of 2010 have
abated, many of the underlying conditions that attracted
those flows remain in place.”  Food Prices  The World Bank said that food prices in developing
countries may increase this year and next, even if
international prices decline.  Risks to the global economy also include continued
turmoil in Arab countries, where civil unrest has lifted oil
prices. Higher energy costs could also boost food prices
further, the bank said.  Persistent uncertainty on the fiscal situation of
countries in the euro region, as well as debt levels in the
U.S. and  Japan , represent another threat, according to the
report.  The World Bank projects growth of 1.7 percent in 2011
and 1.8 percent in 2012 in the 17-country euro area, compared
with a forecast in January for 1.4 percent growth this year
and 2 percent next year. Japan will expand 0.1 percent this
year and 2.6 percent in 2012, compared with forecasts of 1.8
percent and 2 percent at the beginning of the year.  “Further financial stress may emerge, as monetary
policy in high-income countries begins to tighten,” the bank
said.  The World Bank based its projections on market prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  