-- 
World Bank Says Inflation a Key Risk to South Asian Growth

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-06-08T09:17:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/world-bank-says-inflation-is-a-key-risk-to-south-asian-growth.html
The  World Bank  said inflation is a
“key downside risk” to economic growth in South  Asia  and
called upon India, Pakistan and other nations in the region to
tighten their monetary and fiscal policies.  “Failure to bring public finances and monetary policy into
line could undermine growth projections,” the Washington-based
lender said in its Global Economic Prospects report.  The South Asian region that includes India, Pakistan,
Afghanistan, Maldives, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan and Nepal,
may expand 7.5 percent in 2011, slower than the 9.3 percent gain
in the previous 12 months, the  World Bank  said. India has raised
 interest rates  nine times since mid-March 2010 and pledged to
cut the budget deficit to ease price gains.  The World Bank estimates India’s economy will expand 8.1
percent in 2011 after growing 10.3 percent in 2010.  Inflation in  India  eased to 8.66 percent in April from 9
percent in March, and the central bank says the level may stay
“elevated” until September.  Growth in “South Asian economies will be impacted by one
to two percentage points if  oil prices  and inflation continue to
stay high next year,” Asian Development Bank Director General
Sultan Hafeez Rahman said in an interview yesterday in Dhaka.
“Inflation is a serious risk for growth and there is no
question about it.”  Budget Deficit  India’s Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee plans to narrow
the budget deficit to 4.6 percent of gross domestic product in
the year ending March 31 from 4.7 percent in the previous year.  Pakistan ’s Finance Minister Abdul Hafeez Shaikh last week
pledged to reduce the budget gap to 4 percent of GDP, the lowest
in seven years. Consumer prices in Pakistan rose 13.23 percent
in May from a year earlier, the fastest pace in Asia after
Vietnam.  “The region’s large general government budget deficits are
also complicating efforts to restrict domestic demand and reduce
inflation,” the World Bank said. “Inflationary pressures are
elevated across South Asia reflecting various factors including
higher international food and fuel prices, tight capacity
utilization and past macroeconomic loosening.”  While India’s central bank last month lifted its benchmark
repurchase rate by half a percentage point to 7.25 percent, the
 State Bank  of Pakistan extended a six-month pause in rate
increases to support consumer demand.  In  Sri Lanka , Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal hasn’t raised
rates since 2007, saying the spurt in prices is because of
“supply-side” issues like shortage of food products. Inflation
in the nation slowed to 8.8 percent in May, easing for the first
time in four months.  “If inflation remains elevated, unless offset by exchange
rate depreciation, it is likely to begin eating into the
region’s international competitiveness and discourage foreign
investment,” the World Bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  