-- 
Hynix, Micron Raise Rambus Shredding Claims as Trial Begins

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-06-09T00:15:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/hynix-micron-raise-rambus-shredding-claims-as-4-3-billion-trial-looms.html
Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  and  Micron
Technology Inc. (MU) , facing the start of a trial in a $4.3 billion
antitrust suit by Rambus Inc., want jurors to know the chip
designer shredded documents as a “litigation strategy.”  Based on a federal appeals court’s ruling last month that
Rambus destroyed documents relevant to patent cases against
Hynix and Micron, the chipmakers seek an order telling jurors
the shredding was proven. The request may be the final pretrial
skirmish in a case that has taken more than seven years to reach
trial.  Jurors should know that the “raison d’etre for Rambus’s
document retention policy was to further Rambus’s litigation
strategy by frustrating the fact-finding efforts of parties
adverse to Rambus,” Hynix and Micron said in filings in the
last two weeks in California state court in  San Francisco .  Judge James McBride today scheduled a June 14 hearing on
the defendants’ request. He also began the jury selection
process after telling a panel of about 180 potential jurors that
the trial may last five months.  “It’s going to be an interesting trial, that’s the good
news,” McBride told the crowd. “We think that this jury is
going to be in business through Thanksgiving,” he added,
eliciting a collective gasp and laughter from the room. He later
told lawyers he’s “intent” on swearing in the jury by June 16.  Rambus, based in Sunnyvale, California, is seeking as much
as $12.9 billion from Hynix and Micron over claims they drove
Rambus-designed dynamic random access memory, or RDRAM, chips
out of the computer memory market. The $4.3 billion damages
sought by Rambus against the two companies would be
automatically tripled under  California  law, Rambus General
Counsel Thomas Lavelle said in an interview this month.  Rambus, in a filing this week, argued the memory
manufacturers’ request attempts to circumvent previous rulings.
The spoliation, or destruction, of “patent documents in
anticipation of patent-infringement litigation should not be
given preclusive effect in this antitrust case,” Rambus argued.  Analysts on Trial  Analysts tracking Rambus say a victory in the antitrust
case could drive the company’s stock to historic highs, while
analysts covering Micron and Hynix say they aren’t concerned
with the outcome of the trial.  Rambus shares have soared as much as 57 percent in the wake
of legal victories in patent cases. The antitrust case is a more
“black and white subject matter” for jurors than patent
litigation, Jeff Schreiner, an analyst at San Diego-based
Capstone Investments, said in an interview.  For investors, the case presents “one of the top risk-
reward investment opportunities” of the summer that could cause
Rambus shares to jump as high as $109, he said. That would be
almost eight times the $13.74 share price as of 3:42 p.m. in
Nasdaq stock market trading in  New York .  Micron investors “are largely looking beyond it at the
moment,” Daniel Amir, an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets in
San Francisco, said of the trial. While a judgment against
Micron presents a “headline risk,” he said, shareholders
“don’t see it as a big risk, largely because these on-and-off
things take years to resolve.”  Neither Micron nor Hynix has set money aside for a possible
defeat, according to Amir, who said the “more realistic”
worst-case scenario for Micron is a jury award of “a few
hundred million” dollars.  Trial Delays  Rambus’s case, filed in 2004, has repeatedly been delayed
on its way to trial because of legal maneuvering and scheduling
conflicts.  The manufacturers will try “anything and everything” to
halt the case because stalling has been their “main strategy,”
Lavelle said.  “They’ve got a hook, and they’re going to say because of
the spoliation ruling in the Federal Circuit that we don’t have
an antitrust case against them,” Lavelle said. “Rambus is
going to remind jurors this is a case about their behavior.”  Rambus claims Ichon, South Korea-based Hynix and Boise,
Idaho-based Micron inflated the price of RDRAM chips and
collusively underpriced their own SDRAM and DDR chips to
undercut competition from Rambus.  $185 Million Fine  Lavelle said Rambus’s case relies only in small part on an
antitrust case brought by the  U.S. Department of Justice  that
resulted in Hynix pleading guilty to price-fixing claims and
paying a $185 million fine in 2005. In 2004, a Micron Technology
salesman pleaded guilty to obstructing the government probe.  The Rambus general counsel said the company’s case can
stand alone, independent of the U.S. case, on “overwhelming
evidence.”  One item Rambus lawyers plan to show the jury is a June 5,
2001, e-mail from a Micron sales manager to colleagues.  “We want DDR to explode into the marketplace so have
actually been requesting Infineon, Samsung and Hynix to lower
their DDR pricing to help it become a standard (and drive Rambus
away completely),” the sales manager said in the e-mail.  Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s largest maker of
memory chips, which was named as a defendant in Rambus’s
original complaint, agreed in January 2010 to pay $900 million
to end all legal claims with Rambus and reach a new licensing
deal over computer-memory technology.  Infineon Technologies  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  was removed from the antitrust
case when it agreed in 2005 to pay as much as $150 million to
settle all legal claims with Rambus.  Hynix, the world’s second-largest memory-chip maker, and
Micron, the biggest U.S. memory-chip maker, deny Rambus’s claims
that they tried to stifle competition.  “This litigation is part of Rambus’s continued attempts to
place blame on third parties for its failure to compete
successfully in the marketplace,” Micron General Counsel Rod Lewis said in an e-mailed statement. “RDRAM failed because it
was inherently less efficient and more expensive than competing
technologies and not well suited to a shifting PC marketplace.”  Ken Nissly, a lawyer for Hynix, said in an interview that
Hynix invested more than $100 million in developing RDRAM,
adding that the company “was not part of any alleged conspiracy
against Rambus.”  “It is widely accepted as true that RDRAM was more
expensive to manufacture because of certain technical aspects of
the product,” he said.  The case is  Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  v. Micron Technology Inc., 04-
431105, California Superior Court (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 