-- 
YouTube in Network Deal Talks With Operators, Manufacturers

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-06-08T17:22:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/youtube-in-talks-about-network-deal-with-operators-handset-manufacturers.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube division said
it is in talks with all major mobile operators on an agreement
to pool efforts to reduce the impact of video content on
telecommunications networks.  YouTube, the world’s most popular video-streaming site, is
also in discussions with handset manufacturers, whose devices
can help optimize the flow of data over increasingly clogged
data networks, Andrey Doronichev, an executive responsible for
the company’s mobile offering, said in an interview in London
today. “We’re in the middle of the process.” He declined to
name any operators or manufacturers.  Telecom operators including  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and
 Telefonica SA (TEF)  are seeking a new deal with Internet companies
including Google and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , who they say are overloading
networks without contributing enough to their upkeep.  France
Telecom  is in talks with Google that will likely lead to a pact
to jointly develop network technology, two people familiar with
the situation said yesterday.  “You hear the content industry say they struggle to make
money with piracy and so on, while we have challenges with the
investment requirements versus the revenues,” Richard Feasey,
public policy director of  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the world’s
biggest mobile-phone operator, said in an interview in Athens
last week. “Everybody faces a challenge in the long run.”  Storing Content  Even though telecom operators’ first choice is direct
payments by content providers, network congestion can be reduced
with new technologies. Such stopgaps include storing more
content on mobile devices, rather than sending it over wireless
networks, and finding segments of radio spectrum that are
underused by current equipment.  The number of mobile data connections in western  Europe 
will rise by an average of 15 percent a year to 270 million in
2014, as overall end-user revenue falls by about 1 percent
annually, research firm IDC estimated last year.  Former state monopolies including France Telecom,  Telecom
Italia SpA (TIT) , Telefonica and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  are also trying
to convince investors that they are more than conduits for other
companies’ electronic commerce.  Deutsche Telekom plans to introduce various levels of
connection quality to manage the surge in data traffic and
enable high-bandwidth services such as video conferences and
tele-medicine, spokesman Philipp Blank said today. The Bonn-
based company is also tripling the capacity of ports that
connect its network with that of Google over the coming weeks to
eliminate a bottleneck that slows down service.  Quality Levels  “One could imagine services that would allow people not
only to get their content closer to the customer but also then
to have it delivered faster or with higher quality to the actual
device,” Vodafone’s Feasey said.  A spokesman for Telefonica declined to comment.  Foot-dragging on finding a solution to the network traffic
issue may create a situation where governments feel compelled to
step in. French officials including President Nicolas Sarkozy
and Industry Minister Eric Besson have told Web companies to
remember the value of network investments.  While technology co-operation “is a step in the right
direction of the telecom world working with the Web world,”
imbalances between revenues and investment remain that may only
be addressed with new regulation, said Paolo Pescatore, an
analyst at CCS Insight in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.netvroot @bloomberg.net; 