-- 
Yowling Sisters Rock ‘The Shaggs’ Into Cultdom: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-06-08T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/yowling-sisters-rock-the-shaggs-into-cultdom-jeremy-gerard.html
Proudly composed in the key of Be
Flat, “ The Shaggs: Philosophy of the World ” lacks a single
hummable tune. And yet it’s remarkably -- insistently --
memorable.  Even if you’ve become inured to shows about the corrosive
pipe dream of pop fame and fortune, “The Shaggs” is an
original variation on the theme. And it’s a true story, to boot.  The Shaggs were the three daughters of Austin and Annie
Wiggin, a working class New Hampshire couple (Peter Friedman and
Annie Golden). In the late 1960s Austin decides to make good on
his dead mother’s prediction that the girls would bring the
family prosperity.  He takes the teenagers out of school, gives them two
guitars and a drum kit, and virtually wills them into becoming a
rock band like the ones blasting from the radio and on the Ed
Sullivan show.  Oblivious of the fact that they display no noticeable
talent, he dubs them The Shaggs, inspired no doubt by the
British slang for sex. Then they come under the influence of an
incompetent agent/Svengali (Kevin Cahoon).  It isn’t easy to make an appealing musical out of such
talent-free ingredients (though no less a cult figure than Frank
Zappa called the Shaggs “more important than the Beatles”).  But “The Shaggs,” by writer Joy Gregory and composer
Gunnar Madsen, perfectly establishes the dead-end milieu in
which these five people live. The truthful songs are more
concerned with character than conventional beauty, just like the
album the Shaggs ultimately released, “Philosophy of the
World.” It doesn’t hurt that the story plays out, tragically,
against the backdrop of the  Vietnam War .  Austin is no less a stage parent monster than Mama Rose, of
“Gypsy,” and the astonishing Friedman gets his “Rose’s Turn”
moment in “Austin’s Howl,” a feral cry of rage. Under the
astutely low-key direction of John Langs, with unflashy
choreography by Ken Roht, Jamey Hood, Sarah Sokolovic and Emily
Walton are sensational as the alternately compliant and
rebellious girls. But in the end, it’s Daddy’s show.  Through July 3 at Playwrights Horizons, 416 W. 42nd St.
Information: +1-212-279-4200;  http://www.playwrightshorizons.org 
Rating: ****  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 