-- 
Yuan Climbs to a 17-Year High on Reference Rate, U.S. Outlook

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-06-08T09:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/yuan-climbs-to-a-17-year-high-on-reference-rate-u-s-outlook.html
China ’s yuan advanced to the
strongest level in 17 years as the central bank set the
currency’s reference higher for a third straight day.  The People’s Bank of China raised the currency rate 0.03
percent to 6.4795 per dollar, the highest level since July 2005.
A record monetary stimulus is still needed to boost a
“frustratingly slow” recovery in the world’s largest economy,
U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday,
spurring speculation investors will add to holdings of higher-
yielding emerging-market assets.  “Bernanke’s comments confirmed that  U.S. economy  remains
weak so even though there’ll be no quantitative-easing program
after June, it’s also unlikely for the Fed to raise  interest
rates ,” said Kenix Lai, a foreign-exchange analyst at Sun Hung
Kai Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong.  The yuan strengthened 0.08 percent to 6.4757 per dollar as
of the close at 4:30 p.m. in  Shanghai , according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trade System. The currency reached 6.4755
earlier, the strongest level since China unified official and
market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  The yuan isn’t allowed to move more than 0.5 percent on
either side of the daily fixing. The central bank says the yuan
is managed against an undisclosed basket of currencies.  Risk-Off Mode  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards dropped 0.17 percent
to 6.3690 per dollar in Hong Kong, reflecting a 1.7 percent
premium to the Shanghai’s spot rate, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. In  Hong Kong ’s offshore market, the yuan slipped
0.04 percent to 6.4754.  “The offshore market continues to show the risk-off mode
of investors given the worries over government debt crisis in
 Europe ,” said Patrick Cheng, a foreign-currency analyst at
Haitong International Securities Co. in Hong Kong. “There’s
also concern that China’s tightening measures may slow economic
growth besides tackling inflation.”  China is facing “relatively large” inflationary pressures
amid rising global grain and oil prices, Xu Xianping, a vice
chairman of the National Development and Reform Commission, said
at a press conference today, according to a transcript on the
government’s website.  Inflation accelerated to 5.5 percent last month from 5.3
percent in April, according to the median estimate of economists
in a Bloomberg News survey before official data due on June 14.
That would be the fastest pace since July 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  