-- 
Hyundai Heavy Shares Fall on Possible $2.4 Billion Bid for Stake in Hynix

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-06-08T08:40:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/hyundai-heavy-shares-fall-on-possible-2-4-billion-bid-for-stake-in-hynix.html
Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., the
world’s biggest shipyard, fell the most in two weeks after
saying it may consider bidding for a $2.4 billion stake in  Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  being sold by former creditors.  “In principle, we are looking at this sale with
interest,” the Ulsan, South Korea-based company said in an e-
mailed response to queries today, without elaboration. Its
shares dropped 5.6 percent to 466,000 won at the 3 p.m. close of
trading in Seoul, the biggest decline since May 23. Hynix rose
1.1 percent.  A group of financial institutions led by Korea Exchange
Bank has said it plans to sell a 15 percent stake in Hynix that
it gained following a government-led bailout of chipmakers
during the 1997-1998 Asian financial crisis. Buying the stake
may cause Hyundai Heavy to invest in new technology while doing
little to boost its main operations, said Lee Jae Won, an
analyst at Tong Yang Securities Inc.  “It’s very hard to see why it would be interested,” said
Seoul-based Lee. “It’s really unclear what the synergies would
be.” The shipmaker may eventually decide against making a bid,
he said.  Ichon, South Korea-based Hynix, the world’s second-largest
computer-memory maker, has a market value of 17.1 trillion won
($15.8 billion), according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  One of Hynix’s forerunners and Hyundai Heavy were both part
of the old  Hyundai Group , which split up about 10 years ago.  Stake Sale  The nine financial institutions are still discussing ways
to sell their stake and may announce the sale schedule by the
end of this month, said Kim Sun Gyu, a spokesman for Korea
Exchange. He declined to elaborate. Lee Si Hyun, a Seoul-based
spokeswoman for Hynix, declined to comment.  The Korea Exchange-led group has spent $4.6 billion turning
Hynix around since becoming shareholders by converting debt into
equity. They have agreed to keep their holdings until at last
the end of this year, Korea Finance Chief Executive Officer Ryu
Jae Han said in October.  The government stepped in to help the nation’s chipmakers
after losses caused by slowing sales, overcapacity and the Asian
financial crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  