-- 
Zimbabwe’s Plan to Clear Debt Arrears Stalled by Vote Dispute, Biti Says

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-06-08T15:02:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/zimbabwe-s-plan-to-clear-debt-arrears-stalled-by-vote-dispute-biti-says.html
Zimbabwe ’s efforts to clear its
international debt arrears are being hampered by a deadlock over
the staging of elections, Finance Minister Tendai Biti said.  The government approved a plan in November to pay arrears
of about $1.3 billion to the  International Monetary Fund , the
 African Development Bank  and the  World Bank . The move would open
the way for the southern African nation to reschedule other
debts and raise new loans needed to rebuild the economy, which
is recovering after a decade of recession.  “Our plan to deal with the question of debt” is behind
schedule, Biti said in an interview at an AfDB meeting in Lisbon
today. “A lot of friends that have to come on board if we are
to succeed are worried about recent political developments.”  The Movement for Democratic Change, of which Biti is
secretary-general, formed a unity government with President
 Robert Mugabe  two years ago after presidential elections were
aborted because of violence. While the coalition helped end the
recession, the parties remain at odds about writing a new
constitution and holding elections.  Mugabe has been pushing for the vote to be held this year,
while the MDC and regional mediators say constitutional changes
and election rules need to be agreed upon first.  A new Zimbabwean law, which gave foreign mining companies
until June 2 to show how they will sell 51 percent of their
shares to black Zimbabweans or state companies, has also
concerned the country’s international partners, Biti said.  Growth Forecasts  He maintained his November forecast that the economy will
expand 9.3 percent this year, up from about 8.1 percent last
year.  The estimates are more optimistic than those contained in
the 2011  Africa  Economic Outlook, which projected growth would
slow to 7.8 percent this year and to 5.4 percent in 2012.  The
outlook, published on June 6, was written by the AfDB, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the
United Nations Development Program and the UN Economic
Commission for Africa.  “We are going to rebound strongly on the back of a strong
agricultural performance,” Biti said. “My biggest fear is that
the political noises that have been coming up will have a
debilitating effect on the economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Mike Cohen} in Lisbon at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 