-- 
Zynga Is Said to Favor Following LinkedIn With a ‘Low-Float’ IPO Strategy

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-06-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-08/zynga-is-said-to-favor-following-linkedin-with-low-float-ipo-strategy.html
Zynga Inc. plans to sell a small
number of shares in its initial public offering, adopting a
strategy used by LinkedIn Corp. to maintain control of the
company while raising money to expand, according to a person
with direct knowledge of the matter.  Zynga may make less than 10 percent of its shares available
to the public in its IPO, said the person, who declined to be
named because the plans are private. That compares with a 24
percent average among U.S. technology IPOs in the past year,
according to Bloomberg data.  By selling little stock in the IPO, companies protect the
value of existing investors’ stakes. A jump in the stock price
would let them raise cash at a higher value months later.
LinkedIn is up 73 percent since its IPO, and Zynga Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Pincus  is likely betting on a similar
rise, yet there’s no guarantee the stocks will stay high, said
David Menlow, president of IPOfinancial.com, a research firm.  “Companies in this space realize there’s a feeding frenzy
afoot,” said Menlow, whose firm is based in Millburn,  New
Jersey . “The risk is that as a CEO you believe you are better
than you actually are. The reality may be something very
different.”  Zynga and LinkedIn have another connection: LinkedIn
Chairman and co-founder  Reid Hoffman  is also on the board of
Zynga and was an early investor.  Goldman Sachs  Zynga, the top developer of games for Facebook Inc.’s site,
has yet to submit an IPO filing, and its plans may change. The
 San Francisco  company is in talks to have Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. lead the stock sale by the end of the month, a person
familiar with the matter said last week. Dani Dudeck, a Zynga
spokeswoman, declined to comment on the IPO or the number of
shares that will be sold.  LinkedIn, the largest professional-networking site, held
its IPO on May 18, becoming the first social-media company to go
public. Other Internet companies are now preparing to follow,
with online-radio service Pandora Media Inc. expected to start
trading next week. LinkedIn sold 8.3 percent of its stock in the
offering, while Pandora is selling 8.6 percent.  Groupon Inc., the leading online provider of daily deals,
filed for its IPO last week. In a memo to employees, Groupon CEO
 Andrew Mason  said the Chicago-based business would “make a
small piece of our company available.”  OpenTable’s Strategy  The approach, known as a low-float IPO, also was used by
 OpenTable Inc. (OPEN)  in its 2009 offering. The restaurant-reservation
service sold about 15 percent of its shares initially. After a
40 percent price jump, it offered more than twice that number
four months later. The stock is now up more than fourfold since
the IPO, bolstering gains for early investors and employees.  The strategy was more about preventing the value of shares
from getting watered down, said Bill Gurley, a board member at
San Francisco-based OpenTable.  “The goal wasn’t low float, it was low dilution,” said
Gurley, who also serves as a partner at Benchmark Capital in
 Menlo Park ,  California , an OpenTable backer. “They just come in
the same package.”  Companies using this tactic often see their stocks rise, in
part because of the small supply of available shares. That helps
them build excitement around their brands, said  Lise Buyer ,
founder of IPO advisory firm Class V Group. Often, the companies
will use the initial sale to gauge market demand for a bigger
offering later, she said.  Virtual Goods  Zynga makes its money from selling virtual items within
games -- for instance, a townhouse in “CityVille.” The worldwide
virtual-goods market is expected to more than double to $20.3
billion in 2014, from $9.28 billion last year, according to
 ThinkEquity LLC , a San Francisco-based research firm. Still,
Zynga will be the first of its kind on the U.S. public markets.  “If you’re in a new business model that nobody
understands, this is a way to test the market,” said Buyer, who
helped run  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s IPO in 2004. “No one knows how to
value these companies, so why not put a little bit out there and
then do a bigger one later once you’ve seen what the market will
pay?”  It doesn’t always work.  MakeMyTrip Ltd. (MMYT) , an online travel
site based in  India , sold 5 million shares, or 15 percent of the
company, in August. The stock rose 89 percent on the first day
of trading. In March, it filed to sell an additional 6 million
shares, only to reduce it to 5.24 million last month due to lack
of demand. The shares then fell 5.6 percent.  For Zynga’s Pincus, selling less of the company may be more
about maintaining control than boosting the stock price. Even
after raising hundreds of millions of dollars in private
capital, Pincus still owns about 30 percent of the company he
founded in 2007, according to a person familiar with the matter.
He’s talked openly about it in the past.  “I would fight to the end for control because if you don’t
have control of your company then you are an employee,” Pincus
said in 2009 to students at a Stanford University forum. “If
you’re going to give up control, go home.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Galante in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  