-- 
Harper Sets May 2 Canada Election, Says Coalition Would Threaten Economy

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-03-26T14:59:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/harper-sets-may-2-canada-election-says-coalition-would-threaten-economy.html
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper set an election for May 2, saying voters will choose
between a majority Conservative government and a coalition of
parties that would threaten the country’s economic recovery.  Opposition parties joined together yesterday to topple
Harper’s Conservative Party government by passing a non-
confidence motion, after rejecting a March 22 budget and saying
Harper’s government was in “contempt” of Parliament by
withholding the cost of some of its legislation.  Harper said his Conservatives are the only party that can
form a stable government to ensure the recovery, he told
reporters in Ottawa today after asking Governor General David Johnston to dissolve Parliament.  “I ask Canadians: Who can deliver a stable national
government that  Canada  needs to complete our economic recovery
and keep taxes down?” Harper said. “The opposition parties
will never accept” a Conservative minority, he said.  Liberal Leader  Michael Ignatieff  issued a statement minutes
before Harper spoke, in which he ruled out a coalition, adding
he wouldn’t work with the Bloc Quebecois, a political party that
seeks to separate the French-speaking province from Canada.  “We will not enter a coalition with other federalist
parties,” Ignatieff said in the statement. “Issue-by-issue
collaboration with other parties is the best way for minority
Parliaments to function.” Ignatieff also said that coalitions
are a “legitimate constitutional option.”  ‘Hidden Agenda’  Asked about the statement, Harper said the Liberals have a
“hidden agenda” to create a coalition.  “They’ll do it after the election if they can get away
with it,” Harper said. “They’re still trying to keep the door
open because they’ll do it if they get the chance.”  Canada’s dollar fell 0.5 percent to 98.05 cents per  U.S.
dollar  yesterday in Toronto, from 97.52 cents March 24. It
weakened as much as 0.8 percent, the biggest intraday drop since
March 16. Yields on Canada’s two-year bonds rose 2 basis points
to 1.73 percent. The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index rose
10 points to 14,039.39 in Toronto.  Harper’s campaign will focus on the economy, which is the
fastest growing with the lowest deficits among Group of Seven
nations. The currency has been the strongest in the G-7 over the
past two years.  Government bonds  have returned 5.1 percent over
the past year as of March 24, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data, compared with a 3.1 percent average
for the G-7. Canada’s benchmark S&P/TSX Composite Index has
risen 17.4 percent over the past 12 months, compared with a 12.6
percent gain for the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  Ethics Allegations  Opposition lawmakers are seeking to benefit from what they
say have been ethics violations by Harper’s administration,
including accusations by Ignatieff that former Harper aide Bruce
Carson was peddling influence with companies seeking state
contracts, as well as charges that ministers have misled
Parliament.  Polls show the Conservatives would likely win the most
seats in an election. A  poll  taken March 12-15 by Nanos Research
showed the Conservatives had the support of 39 percent of
voters. Harper, who has been prime minister since 2006, won 38
percent of the vote in 2008 elections, which gave the
Conservatives 143 seats in the 308-member House of Commons. The
telephone poll of 1,216 Canadians, which has a margin of error
of 2.8 percentage points, had the Liberals at 28 percent and the
NDP at 20 percent.  Blocking Majority  Gilles Duceppe of the  Bloc Quebecois  said today in  Montreal 
that he leads the “only party capable of blocking the route of
Stephen Harper” to a majority government. Harper wants a
majority “to impose his ideology, without limit” Duceppe said.  New Democratic Party Leader Jack Layton said that after the
election he would work with other parties “on a case-by-case
basis” or by using “more stable arrangements.”  At stake in the vote are reductions in corporate tax rates
that would cost the government more than C$6 billion ($6.14
billion) in revenue next year, according to estimates by the
Canadian Manufacturers and Exporters, an Ottawa-based lobby
group that supports the measures.  The Liberals and NDP say the cuts are unaffordable and have
pledged to reverse them if elected. The opposition has also said
they would cancel the government’s plans to acquire 65 of
Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 Joint
Strike Fighter jets, which the parliamentary budget officer has
said would cost $29 billion.  All parties back a return to a balanced budget, after
Harper’s government ran record deficits to stem the effects of
the global recession.  “I don’t see either major party substantially changing
fiscal policy.” Ed Devlin, a London-based money manager at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said in an interview. Bond
investors may have a “very marginal” preference for the
Conservatives, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 