-- 
Latin America Economic Growth to Slow in 2011 on Inflation, IIF Says

-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a   a n d   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-03-26T17:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/latin-america-growth-to-slow-in-2011-on-inflation-iif-says.html
Economic growth in Latin America
will fall to 4.5 percent this year from 6.1 percent in 2010 as
inflation and rising  interest rates  curb expansion, the
 Institute of International Finance  said.  Latin America’s growth will be about 4.6 percent in 2012,
the Washington-based banking group said in its regional overview,
released today during the Inter-American Development Bank annual
meeting in Calgary.  Countries in the region including Brazil raised interest
rates this month to slow inflation and dampen demand. Uruguay
raised its benchmark rate 100 basis points, more than expected,
to 7.5 percent on March 23, while Brazil raised its rate 50
basis points to 11.75 percent on March 2. A basis point is 0.01
of a percentage point.  “A monetary tightening cycle has already begun in several
of these and we expect other countries to move in the direction
during the course of the year,” Frederick Jaspersen, director
for Latin America, said in a statement. “This, together with
gradual withdrawal of fiscal stimulus, will dampen growth.”  The region is being flooded by external investments, with
net inflows of about $237 billion this year, Jaspersen said.  These inflows will continue to strengthen the currencies in
the region and capital control measures such as the ones
introduced by  Brazil  will be of little effect, said the IIF,
whose members include 430 financial institutions around the
world.  “Tightening in fiscal policy would allow interest rates to
be lower, thus taking the upward pressure off the real in a more
sustained fashion,” the report said.  Regional Banks  Latin American and Canadian banks have strong fundamentals,
are “well managed and regulated” and should not be subjected
to “suffocating” new rules, said the IIF report.  “Standardized prescriptive rules designed to fix broken
systems are simply not appropriate for Latin American banks --
and I can include Canadian ones here too,” said Richard Waugh,
chief executive officer of Toronto-based  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  and
vice chairman of the IIF. “Our systems were not, and are not,
broken.”  Brazil, the region’s largest economy, will grow 4.8 percent
this year, while  Mexico  will expand 4.5 percent and Chile 6.5
percent, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabiola Moura in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net 
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  