-- 
Bullard Says Federal Reserve’s QE Program Has Been ‘Successful’

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-03-26T08:00:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/bullard-says-federal-reserve-s-qe-program-has-been-successful-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said the central bank’s quantitative
easing program has been “successful” and is a better response
to financial crises than previous strategies.  “The conventional wisdom policy response to a negative
shock is to promise a longer ‘extended period,’” Bullard said
today in a prepared presentation for a speech in Marseille,
 France . “This may work--but it may also encourage a liquidity
trap outcome. A better policy response to a negative shock is to
expand the QE program.”  The Fed’s policy committee said March 15 that the U.S.
economic recovery “is on a firmer footing,” while the labor
market is “improving gradually.” Policy makers reiterated
plans to buy $600 billion in Treasury securities through June to
bolster growth and reduce unemployment.  While quantitative easing programs in the U.S. and the U.K.
have been “successful,” effects of the stimulus are difficult
to disentangle because of other shocks to the economy, Bullard
said. “Effects on the real economy would be expected to lag by
six to 12 months,” he said.  Bullard said last month the U.S. central bank may need to
reduce the amount of purchases in light of stronger U.S.
economic data. Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  and
Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker have also urged a review
of the purchases in light of a strengthening economy and concern
over future inflation.  Interest Rates   U.S. central bankers have said they will keep interest
rates near zero for “an extended period.” In contrast,
European Central Bank officials indicated this month that
uncertainty caused by  Japan ’s earthquake may not deter them from
raising interest rates next month.  The  U.S. economy  is forecast to expand at a 3.4 percent
rate this quarter and 3.3 percent rate in the second quarter,
according to the median of 67 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News this month.  Bullard has warned since last July about a risk of
Japanese-style deflation in the U.S. while calling for purchases
of  Treasury securities  to reduce the threat.  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which excludes food and
fuel, rose 0.8 percent in January from a year earlier, matching
December’s year-over-year gain, the lowest in five decades of
record-keeping. Fed officials aim for long-run overall inflation
of 1.6 percent to 2 percent.  Bullard, 50, voted in favor of the Treasury purchase
program in November and has rotated this year into an annual
non-voting position. He joined the St. Louis Fed’s research
department in 1990 and became president of the bank in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  