-- 
Carney Says Currency and Capital Curbs Threaten Global Economic Recovery

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-03-26T17:53:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/carney-says-currency-and-capital-curbs-threaten-global-economic-recovery.html
Bank of  Canada  Governor  Mark Carney 
said the global recovery could be undermined if policy makers
react to the growing power of emerging markets and rising
commodity prices with restrictions on currencies and capital
flows.  Emerging markets now account for three-quarters of the
world’s economic growth, up from about a third a decade ago, and
commodities are “in the midst of a supercycle,” Carney, 46,
said in a  speech  he’s giving today in Calgary at the annual
meeting of the  Inter-American Development Bank .  “Many emerging markets are trying to forestall capital
inflows and delay necessary monetary tightening,” Carney said,
according to the text provided by the central bank. “This in
turn is feeding domestic demand, which drives commodity prices
up further and leads to more generalized overheating.”  Carney said these countries were reacting to stimulative
monetary policy in some major developed economies and “limited
nominal exchange rate appreciation by  China .”  The Group of 20 finance chiefs agreed in Paris last month
on measures that would show if investment flows are becoming too
lopsided, after these flows helped spark a global credit crisis
and recession. The U.S. and China have argued over whether the
yuan is undervalued and distorting trade, while countries such
as  Brazil  have acted to curb gains in their currencies.  “The stakes are very high,” Carney said. “The current
dynamics of commodity prices and capital flows create major
risks to financial stability and sustainable growth across our
region,” he said, adding that “bad imbalances arise when
countries resist or misread the consequences of this shift of
activity and demand from advanced to emerging economies.”  ‘Robust’ Commodity Demand  Most of the rise in commodity prices is linked to “a large,
sustained increase in demand,” Carney said. “Demand for
commodities can be expected to remain robust for some time.”  Carney said the concern about prices is reflected in the
rise in demand for shorter-term bonds.  “There is a message here, globally, that the inflation
risk premium is not adequate to compensate for inflation risk”
in longer duration bonds, he said, in response to questions at
the banking conference.  Carney told delegates it would be a mistake to “chalk up”
the rise in commodity prices to cyclical demand and to “delay
too much on the monetary policy side but also on the pretty
fundamental structural reforms.”  Population Growth   As an example, Carney cited an estimate by McKinsey &
Company that the global middle class is expanding by 70 million
people a year, and their share of the world population will
double to 40 percent by the end of the decade.  Some political leaders have blamed financial speculation
for a jump in food prices. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said
Jan. 24 regulation of commodity markets will be a priority as he
leads the G-20 this year, and inaction may cause food rioting in
the world’s poorest countries. Last month, Sarkozy proposed an
international meeting to discuss commodity prices to be held in
 Turkey  in April.  Carney’s speech, coming on the day Prime Minister Stephen Harper called an election, made no mention of the current
domestic economy or his benchmark policy interest rate. The bank
canceled a press conference scheduled for after the speech after
the Harper government was defeated in a non-confidence vote
yesterday.  Regarding global currency movements, Carney said Canada’s
experience has been that a flexible currency helps smooth
movements in other prices, such as wages. Canada’s dollar is
trading above parity with the  U.S. dollar , while a decade ago it
traded for about C$1.57 per U.S. dollar.  Currency Movements  Other countries also need to resist curbing currency
movements, Carney said.  “When large economies with undervalued exchange rates keep
their currencies from appreciating, others feel pressured to
follow,” Carney said. “The collective impact of this behavior
risks inflation and asset bubbles in emerging economies and,
over time, subpar global growth.”  Carney said that currency intervention can occasionally be
warranted, and cited the example of the coordinated G-7
intervention to weaken the Japanese yen.  “The circumstances were clearly exceptional: movements in
the yen had become disorderly, volatility was excessive,”
Carney said. “There were potential adverse implications for
economic and financial stability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 