-- 
Chinese Scroll Fetches Record $31 Million at France Auction

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-03-26T16:13:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/chinese-scroll-fetches-record-31-million-at-france-auction.html
A Qianlong-dynasty scroll painting
sold today in Toulouse, south-west  France , for a record 22.1
million euros ($31 million), the latest in a series of big-
ticket auction prices pledged by Asian bidders keen to buy back
 China ’s heritage.  The price of the 79-foot (24 meter) scroll, including fees,
was the most paid for a Chinese artwork at a French auction. The
work, showing the army of the Qianlong emperor at a military
review, was originally estimated to fetch between 5 million
euros and 6 million euros by the Toulouse auction house  Labarbe .  “The bidding was secure,” Pierre Ansas, the freelance
Asian art specialist who catalogued the painting, said in an
interview. Ansas, who will earn a commission of more than 5
percent, said the estimate was raised to 13 million euros to 15
million euros after seven Asian bidders registered to take part.  The values of Chinese antiques are rising even outside the
country’s own art market, which is now second only to the U.S.
On March 22 at Sotheby’s in  New York , a Chinese vase decorated
in gold and the “famille rose” palette sold for $18 million
against an estimate of $800 to $1,200. While the piece had been
catalogued as “probably Republican (early 20th century),” some
people thought it was an 18th-century piece, according to
Giuseppe Eskenazi, a dealer in Chinese art.  Today, the small salesroom in a quiet side street in the
east of the French city was packed with more than 300 people
including 40 Asian dealers, agents and collectors.  Bidding Contest  Bidders competed for 10 minutes before the scroll was
knocked down to a Chinese buyer at the back of the room,
brandishing paddle 109. He refused to comment after the sale.
Both he and the underbidder, sitting in the second row, are
Beijing-based collectors. They fought off competition from at
least two other people in the room and a client on the
telephone.  Five months earlier, in November, a Qianlong-dynasty vase
was bid to 51.6 million pounds (then $83.2 million) at a
 Bainbridges  sale in west Ruislip, on the outskirts of  London .
The price was a record for any Chinese work of art offered at
auction. Auctioneer Peter Bainbridge said on Feb. 3 that he
hadn’t yet received payment from the successful Beijing-based
bidder.  Forbidden City  The Toulouse scroll, dating from 1739 and bearing the seals
of 10 court painters, was being sold by a Paris-based family. It
was one of four Imperial examples looted from Beijing’s
Forbidden City in 1900, when the area was overrun by French
troops, said art historians. Another painting from the quartet,
featuring the Qianlong emperor on a white horse reviewing his
troops, sold for HK$ 67.9 million ($8.7 million) at  Sotheby’s (BID) 
 Hong Kong  in October 2008.  The version sold at Labarbe lacked a portrait of the
emperor, as well as the original jade baton round which it had
been rolled. The family had also retained its original case.  “The case would have added at least another 300,000 euros
to the price,” Ansas said.  Mindful of recent non-payment issues with Chinese bidders,
he had insisted that would-be buyers had to pay a returnable
deposit of 200,000 euros to allow them to bid at the sale.  “It’s not popular,” said Ansas. “I need to be
responsible, though. I have a business to run. I would have
rather have sold the scroll for 8 or 10 million euros to someone
with money in the bank, rather than for a crazy price to someone
I don’t know.”  Wang’s Vase  The buyer of the scroll is committed to pay a third of his
bill within a week and the balance within three months. An agent
representing the Liaoning-based real estate billionaire Wang Jianlin -- identified by dealers as the successful bidder at
Bainbridges -- was not allowed to register for the sale because
of the payment delay for the record-breaking Ruislip vase, Ansas
said.  The same rules applied to bidders for an Imperial Qianlong-
dynasty white jade seal offered a few hours later by the fellow
Toulouse auction house,  Chassaing-Marambat .  The 4-inch wide seal, surmounted by carvings of intertwined
dragons, was one of a number used by the Qianlong Emperor to
sign his calligraphic paintings. Like the scroll, it was thought
to have been looted from the Forbidden City in 1900.  Competed for by seven Chinese bidders, it sold for $12.4
million euros, exceeding an estimate of 1 million euros to 1.5
million euros. It was entered by a Toulouse-based family which
owned it for more than 80 years.  Imperial Seals  The seal's price was explained by its high-quality white
translucent jade and fine carving, dealers said.  Chassaing-Marambat has a history of selling Chinese
Imperial seals. Other examples associated with the emperors
Kangxi and Qianlong sold for 5.5 million euros and 3.3 million
euros respectively in June 2008 and April 2010.  The most expensive Chinese artwork sold at a French auction
before today was a cloisonne vase that sold for 6.5 million
euros (then $8.7 million) at Christie’s, Paris, in June, 2007.  The most expensive artwork sold at a French auction was a
limestone head by the 20th-century sculptor  Amedeo Modigliani ,
which fetched 43.2 million euros (then $53 million) including
fees at Christie’s International, Paris, in June last year.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 