-- 
Continental AG Said to Near Deal on Loans After High Demand

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-03-26T14:39:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/continental-ag-said-to-near-deal-on-financing-after-high-demand.html
Continental AG (CON) ,  Europe ’s second-
largest tiremaker, is close to agreeing to new financing after
banks offered more loans than it asked for, according to three
people familiar with the talks.  Continental is seeking to secure cheaper terms and replace
loans coming due next year, one of the people said, declining to
be identified because the talks are private. The German company,
which requested 6 billion euros ($8.5 billion), was offered
about 8.5 billion euros in loans, that person said.  The rebound in the  auto industry  last year has boosted
Continental’s sales and earnings. The company reported revenue
and profit that beat analyst estimates for the fourth quarter
and predicted rising sales from  Asia  this year will compensate
for additional costs from surging rubber prices.  An announcement may come as early as tomorrow, said the
people. A spokesman for Continental declined to comment.
Continental is controlled by the closely held  Schaeffler Group ,
the world’s second-biggest maker of roller bearings.  Hanover, Germany-based Continental was seeking 6 billion
euros of term loans and revolving credits from lenders for as
long as three years to replace maturing debt, people familiar
with the matter told Bloomberg News on March 10.  Credit Ratings  Standard & Poor’s rates Continental’s debt B, or five steps
below investment grade. Moody’s Investors Service ranks it one
step higher at B1. Both have a stable outlook on the ratings.
Continental aims to return to investment grade by 2012.  One part of the credit coming due is a 4.06 billion-euro
term loan. The other is a forward-start credit line of 2.5
billion euros signed in December 2009. Continental agreed to pay
interest of between 475 basis points and 500 basis points more
than benchmark lending rates for the loans, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The debt stems from Continental’s 2007 acquisition of
Siemens AG’s VDO unit for 11.4 billion euros.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are coordinating the
refinancing for the Hanover, Germany-based company, people
familiar with the discussions told Bloomberg on March 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  