-- 
ECB’s Gonzalez-Paramo Sees Risks to Price Stability ‘On Upside’

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-03-26T00:11:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/ecb-s-gonzalez-paramo-sees-risks-to-price-stability-on-upside-.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo said risks to  price
stability  are “very much on the upside” and that the central
bank should remain “strongly vigilant.”  “When we say strong vigilance it means that when we assess
what the risks to price stability are, they are very much on the
upside,” Gonzalez-Paramo told reporters in  Washington  yesterday
after speaking at  Georgetown University . At the same time “we
never pre-commit” on interest-rate decisions, he said.  ECB officials, including President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and
executive board member  Juergen Stark , have signaled that the
economic uncertainty caused by  Japan ’s earthquake may not deter
them from raising interest rates next month. Policy makers are
concerned faster growth and rising prices will prompt so-called
second-round effects, where workers demand to be compensated for
higher costs, entrenching inflation.  Gonzalez-Paramo said that the impact of the Japanese
earthquake and tsunami “in terms of risks to price stability
and to growth will be assessed” at the ECB’s next meeting.  “Uncertainty might increase, but that’s an element we’ll
deal with,” he said.  European inflation accelerated to the fastest in more than
two years in February, increasing pressure on the ECB to raise
rates. Inflation in the 17-nation euro region quickened to 2.4
percent from 2.3 percent in January, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said March 16. Inflation has
breached the ECB’s 2 percent limit since December.  Strong Enough  Asked whether the euro region was strong enough to bear
higher  interest rates , Gonzalez-Paramo noted that several
international organizations have raised their growth forecasts
for it. “This recovery will continue in the quarters to come in
all evidence we have,” he said.  German business confidence held close to a record in March,
the Munich-based Ifo Institute said, while growth of loans to
households and companies in  Europe  accelerated in February, a
separate report from the ECB showed.  ECB Executive Board member Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell and
Governing Council member Yves Mersch both said earlier that
“strong vigilance” is necessary to keep a lid on inflation, a
phrase the central bank uses to signal a rate increase is
imminent.  Trichet also told the European Parliament earlier this week
he has “nothing to add” to his March 3 remarks, when he said
policy makers may raise the benchmark rate from a record low of
1 percent at their next meeting in April.  Portugal ’s Commitments  Gonzalez-Paramo also said the situation has not changed
since March 3.  He urged Portugal to “stick to the commitments” of fiscal
policy that were made before, and said there is not a crisis of
the euro, rather a crisis of confidence.  “The euro is here to stay and to live with us for many,
many years,” Gonzalez-Paramo said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 