-- 
Egyptian Stocks Will Stabilize This Week, Finance Minister Radwan Says

-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n   a n d   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a
-- 
2011-03-27T13:45:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/egyptian-stocks-will-stabilize-this-week-finance-minister-radwan-says.html
Egypt ’s Finance Minister Samir Radwan said the stock market will stabilize this week as the
government makes 250 million Egyptian pounds ($42 million)
available to buy shares, after the index dropped to the lowest
level in almost two years following a seven-week halt.  The bourse has “surpassed all my expectations” and will
not experience the same volatility as last week, Radwan said in
an interview in London yesterday. Egypt’s benchmark EGX30 Index
plummeted 12 percent on March 23 and 24 as the bourse reopened
for the first time since a popular uprising that led to the
ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak .  “I was there, my heart dropped when I saw the EGX30 diving
down,” Radwan said in an interview in London. “But when we
reopened again I was reassured. Now we are doing well, and I’m
assured through the chairman of the stock exchange that the
demands to buy are very healthy.”  Radwan was in London for a conference promoting investment
in Egypt after the revolt against the former regime caused
companies to close and tourists to flee. The  Finance Ministry 
now expects gross domestic product to grow between 3 and 3.5
percent this year, Radwan said, compared with a forecast of 5.8
percent before the revolution.  Egypt’s benchmark index rose the most in more than 15
months today. The  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  climbed 5.3 percent, the most
since December 2009, to 5,212.08 at the 1:30 p.m. close in
Cairo.  Government Subsidies  Radwan told state-run television on Feb. 1, the day after
he was appointed by Mubarak, that he would not lower government
subsidies on fuel and food. These are equivalent to as much as 5
percent of GDP, widening the country’s budget deficit as food
and oil prices rise.  “The present structure is highly inequitable, and doesn’t
serve the people to whom the subsidies are directed,” he said
yesterday. “But to touch it now would be suicide. We are
regaining the confidence of the Egyptian people, and we would
like that confidence to be on a solid basis.”  Subsidies amount to 6 percent of the income of the poorest
40 percent of the population, while adding 28 percent to the
income of the top 20 percent, he said.  “We want a much more efficient system,” he said. “We are
subsidizing five-star hotels, brick-making factories and so on.
Is that fair?”  Radwan also promised there would be “no rolling back of
reforms” to the country’s economy. “I am authorized to say
this, coming to the  London  meeting, by the Cabinet, by the
military council, to reassure everybody. If anything, we would
like to go forward.”  Changes being considered include measures addressing the
availability of land, licensing, bankruptcy and corruption,
Radwan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jack Jordan in London at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net ;
Francine Lacqua in London at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 