-- 
England Sets Sri Lanka Target of 230 in Cricket World Cup Quarterfinal

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-03-26T12:53:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/england-sets-sri-lanka-target-of-230-in-cricket-world-cup-quarterfinal.html
Jonathan Trott ’s battling 86 helped
 England  set  Sri Lanka  230 to win their Cricket World Cup
quarterfinal.  England, which won the toss and elected to bat, was
restricted to 229-6 as Sri Lanka, playing on its home Premadasa
Stadium in Colombo, frustrated England by deploying four
spinners on a slow batting surface. The winner will meet  New
Zealand  in three days.  England captain  Andrew Strauss  was the first to fall when
he was bowled by Tillakaratne Dilshan following an attempted
swipe over the infield. He was followed in the next over by
opening partner Ian Bell, who reached 25 before flicking Angelo
Mathews straight into the hands of Thilan Samaraweera.  Sri Lanka, to the delight of the majority of the sellout
36,000 crowd, kept the pressure up, rarely allowing England
scoring shots. It took England 16 overs to reach 50 as  Ravi Bopara  and Trott endured the same struggle to pierce the field
as the pair they replaced.  Bopara had 31 when he missed an attempted sweep off Muttiah Muralitharan. He failed to overturn umpire Simon Taufel’s leg
before wicket decision as a video review confirmed the ball
would have hit middle stump.  Trott reached his 50 in 71 balls, hitting just one boundary
in an innings built on snatching quick runs rather than big
shots. That came after Sri Lanka had given Eoin Morgan the first
of three reprieves. The Irishman was on 17 when Samaraweera
dropped a simple catch, allowing Morgan to combine with Trott
for 50 off 48 balls. Muralitharan then raged at his teammates
when they dropped Morgan twice in consecutive balls.  Half Century  Mathews fumbled a catch in the deep before Rangana Herath
felled a chance square of the wicket. Morgan wasn’t given a
fourth escape. Moments after completing his half century he
lofted Lasith Malinga to Mathews.  Graeme Swann fell to a first ball lbw trying a reverse
sweep against Ajantha Mendis. The double blow ended England’s
chances of a big finish and despite Matt Prior’s quickfire 22,
England failed to breach 236, the stadium’s average score for a
team batting first in one day international. Trott was last to
go, caught by Mahela Jaywardene off Muralitharan.  The victor will move on to the April 2 final in Mumbai
against either  India  or  Pakistan , who meet in Mohali, India on
May 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at the Premadasa Stadium via the London newsroom on
   celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  