-- 
Merkel’s Party Aims to Curb Green Gains at Two State Elections

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-03-26T23:19:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/merkel-s-party-aims-to-curb-green-gains-at-two-state-elections-in-germany.html
German voters in two states go the
polls today in the biggest electoral test so far of  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s second-term government.  Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union is bidding to retain
its 58-year hold on Baden-Wuerttemberg in the face of a surge in
support for the environmental Greens party and their Social
Democratic Party allies. In the neighboring state of Rhineland-
Palatinate, the CDU aims to replace the ruling Social Democrats,
the main opposition party nationally.  The elections are the latest in a run of seven state
ballots this year that offer voters the chance to rate Merkel’s
policies from stemming  Europe ’s debt turmoil to her response to
Japan’s atomic crisis and war in Libya. Polls suggest the anti-
nuclear Greens will probably gain in both states, with support
rising as the disaster in  Japan  fans public concern about
reactor safety.  Defeat for the CDU in Baden-Wuerttemberg, in  Germany ’s
southwestern corner bordering Switzerland and France, would put
Merkel’s government “under severe pressure, and a break-up of
the coalition cannot be ruled out,”  Juergen Michels , an
economist at Citigroup Inc. in  London , said in a March 25 note.  The Greens and Social Democrats have a combined 48 percent
in Baden-Wuerttemberg compared with 43 for the ruling coalition
of  Christian Democrats  and the Free Democrats, an Enmid poll for
Focus magazine showed on March 25. That was the fourth poll in a
week to suggest the Greens may end the CDU’s reign in the state
capital Stuttgart, which has been uninterrupted since 1953.  Driven by Porsche  That result would grant the Greens sway over policy
affecting a state whose economy is bigger than Belgium and
Luxembourg combined, driven by companies such as  SAP AG (SAP) , Porsche
AG and  Daimler AG. (DAI)   It would also hand them control of Germany’s third-biggest
utility,  EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK) , and its four
nuclear plants after Merkel announced a moratorium on a planned
extension of nuclear power pending safety checks.  “I don’t think the market has really grasped how deep the
potential implications of these elections go,” said Mark Lewis,
a Deutsche Bank AG analyst in Paris. A Greens-SPD win “would be
such a shock to Germany’s body politic” that it would probably
trigger changes to the planned nuclear extension law and cause
“an accelerated schedule for the permanent shutdown” of “some
or all of Germany’s 17 nuclear reactors.”  The Greens gained support in Baden-Wuerttemberg last year
as they tapped into public opposition to a high-speed rail
project known as Stuttgart 21 that is backed by Merkel and the
CDU state premier, Stefan Mappus.  State Election Run  The Green vote unexpectedly doubled in Saxony-Anhalt in the
second of this year’s state elections on March 20. Merkel’s
party suffered its worst defeat since World War II last month in
the first ballot, in Hamburg.  In the wine-growing Rhineland, the Greens have tripled
their support since the last election in 2006, putting them on
course to join the  Social Democrats  in the state government.
Latest polls give the SPD and Greens a combined 51 percent in
the Palatinate compared with 40 percent for Merkel’s party and
the FDP, its national coalition partner.  Today’s twin elections are being fought two days after
European Union leaders agreed on EU-wide reactor safety checks
and threatened tighter economic sanctions against Libyan leader
 Muammar Qaddafi . They also sealed a package of measures to stem
the debt crisis in what Merkel said was a “giant step forward”
in protecting the euro.  “The euro as an election theme can only hurt Merkel,”
said Hans-Juergen Hoffmann, head of the Psephos polling company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at  at
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  