-- 
Euro Falls From 4-Month High Reached on ECB Rate Speculation

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-03-26T18:48:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/euro-falls-from-4-month-high-reached-on-ecb-rate-speculation.html
The euro fell against the dollar
from the highest level in almost four months as European Union
leaders failed to solidify a permanent bailout mechanism during
a summit ended yesterday.  Declines in the 17-nation currency this week were limited
by speculation the  European Central Bank  will increase  interest
rates  in April. The dollar fell against currencies linked to
commodities, with the Australian dollar strengthening to the
most versus its U.S. counterpart since foreign-exchange controls
ended in 1983, before a report that may show U.S. private
employers added 222,000 jobs in March.  “EU leaders, they sound fairly optimistic no country after
Portugal may need a bailout, but it’s too early to say that for
sure and I don’t see any justification for euro to be up even
this high,” said Blake Jespersen, director of foreign exchange
in Toronto at Bank of Montreal. “The market continues to have
fairly good risk appetite, despite the turmoil going on.”  The euro fell 0.7 percent to $1.4088 in  New York , from
$1.4182 in the week ended March 18. It touched $1.4220 on March
22 the highest level since Nov. 5. The shared currency fell to
114.59 yen, from 114.31. The dollar strengthened versus the yen
to 81.34, from 80.58.  Euro Trends  The euro weakened 0.5 percent against a basket of nine-
developed nation currencies in the past week, according to
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes. Futures show traders
added to bets on higher borrowing costs in the region, with the
implied yield on the three-month Euribor contract expiring in
September rising 0.2 percentage point to 1.83 percent.  Jean-Claude Trichet, the ECB President, told the European
Parliament March 21 he has “nothing to add” to his March 3
remarks when he said policy makers may raise the benchmark rate
from a record low of 1 percent at their next meeting April 7.
The  Federal Reserve  remains committed to keeping short-term
interest rates low for an extended period.  EU leaders were divided about how to get the euro-region
stopgap fund up to its capacity of 440 billion euros ($624
billion) to ease credit woes. European leaders pushed back the
decision on funding a bailout mechanism to June.  ‘A Little Wary’  “European leaders have shown that in crisis times they can
get things done,” said Brian Kim, a currency strategist at UBS
AG in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “However, people are a little wary
at this point.”  Fitch Ratings  cut Portugal’s credit rating after the
nation’s Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  resigned March 23.  Two European officials said a bailout for  Portugal  may
total as much as 70 billion euros. Portugal made up about 1.8
percent of the total 17-nation euro-zone gross domestic product
in the fourth quarter last year, according to Eurostat, the EU’s
statistics office, and Bloomberg data, while Ireland accounts
for 1.8 percent and Greece makes up 2.3 percent.  Portugal hasn’t asked for a bailout and the figures are
preliminary, the officials said. The action would follow Greece
and Ireland’s request of aid from the EU and the  International
Monetary Fund .  The Dollar Index, which tracks the currency against six-
major trading partners, rose 0.6 percent to 76.151, from 75.718.
The dollar fell on a weekly basis against the  New Zealand ,
 Australia , South African and Canadian currencies as the price of
raw materials surged.  The Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index jumped 2.2 percent, the
biggest weekly gain since March 4.  Stops Triggered  Australia’s dollar rose as much as 0.8 percent to $1.0294
yesterday, as technical levels were triggered.  “There were a lot of orders sitting above the 1.0255-60
level and so when it broke the level a lot of stops were
triggered and we saw a very very quick move,” said  Kathy Lien ,
director of currency research with online currency trader GFT
Forex in New York. Traders place automatic buy and sell orders,
known as stops, at predetermined prices to limit losses.  The yen fell for the first time in three weeks against the
dollar in the week after the Group of Seven nations intervened
to bring the currency down from a postwar high.  The yen surged to a post-World War II high of 76.25 versus
the dollar on March 17 after a 9.0-magnitude earthquake and
tsunami struck  Japan  on March 11, damaging cooling systems at a
nuclear-power plant north of  Tokyo .  Switzerland’s franc fell against all its major counterparts
last week. The move follows the franc’s biggest five-day gain
versus the greenback since June, as investors sought a haven
amid lingering tensions in the Middle East, according to the
Swiss National Bank.  Pound Falls  The franc weakened 2.1 percent to 91.99 centimes per
dollar, after gaining 3.1 percent the week ended March 18.  “The franc was just overdone and now we’re seeing a move
the other way,” said  Tim O’Sullivan , chief trader at FOREX.com,
a unit of the online currency trading company Gain Capital in
Bedminster, New Jersey. “I still think it’s a good play to buy
Swiss and sell dollars in this environment.”  The pound fell against most of its major counterparts,
excluding the franc, after the  Bank of England  minutes showed
policy makers voted 6-3 to keep rates steady on March 10 and saw
“merit in waiting” to assess the effect of higher  oil prices 
on the economy.  The currency also was pressured as Chancellor of the
Exchequer George Osborne said the British economy will grow more
slowly this year than previously forecast. The  Office for Budget
Responsibility  predicts annual growth in 2011 of 1.7 percent,
down from the 2.1 percent forecast in November, Osborne said.  Britain’s currency fell 1.2 percent to $1.6042, from
$1.6234 the previous week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  