-- 
German Government Bonds Drop on Concern Over ECB Rate Outlook

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-03-26T07:30:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/german-government-bonds-drop-on-concern-over-ecb-rate-outlook.html
German 10-year bonds declined for
the first week in three as stock-market gains boosted demand for
higher-yielding assets amid speculation the  European Central
Bank  may increase borrowing costs next month.  Two-year notes also snapped two weeks of gains as data
released yesterday showed German business confidence stayed near
a record in March. Portuguese bonds slumped as  Fitch Ratings  and
 Standard & Poor’s  cut the nation’s credit rating. The benchmark
Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced for the first week in five,
rising 3.1 percent, its biggest weekly gain since September.  “The market default is for yields to go higher,” said
 Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “Unless we get some bad
economic data -- that’s the only way bonds can rally. Rate-hike
expectations haven’t served to drag on German sentiment data.
ECB policy makers are maintaining their hawkish stance.”  The yield on the 10-year bund, the euro region’s benchmark
government security, rose nine basis points in the week to 3.28
percent as of 5 p.m. in  London  yesterday. The German two-year
yield gained 10 basis points in the week to 1.73 percent.  Portuguese bonds have lost investors 5 percent this year
through March 24, compared with a loss of 1.8 percent by German
 government bonds , according to indexes compiled by the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. Greek
bonds have lost 1 percent this month, paring their gain since
the end of 2010 to 1.4 percent. Irish debt has lost investors
4.9 percent.  Inflation ‘Vigilance’  German business confidence fell less than economists
forecast in March, spurring speculation the debt crisis won’t
deter policy makers from raising  interest rates  next month. The
Munich-based Ifo institute said yesterday its business climate
index was at 111.1 this month, after climbing to 111.3 in
February, the highest reading since records for a reunified
 Germany  began in 1991. Economists expected a drop to 110.5,
according to the median of 39 surveyed by Bloomberg News.  ECB Executive Board member Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell and
Governing Council member Yves Mersch both said March 21 that
“strong vigilance” is necessary to keep a lid on inflation, a
phrase the central bank uses to signal a rate increase is
imminent.  Euribor futures declined, pushing the implied yield on the
contract expiring in December 2011 2.5 basis points higher to
2.065 percent. It was 1.33 percent at the end of 2010.  Portuguese Yields  Forward contracts on the euro overnight index average, or
Eonia, signal investors think the ECB will increase the key rate
25 basis points by its July meeting, Deutsche Bank AG data
shows.  Portuguese 10-year yields reached a euro-era record as
investors anticipated the country would follow Ireland and
 Greece  in seeking a financial lifeline. Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  resigned after lawmakers rejected his budget cuts,
stoking concern the country may struggle to repay about 9
billion euros ($12.7 billion) of debt due by June. Fitch Ratings
cut the nation’s debt rating to A- from A+ on March 24, and S&P
followed with a downgrade to BBB, citing “increased political
uncertainty.”  Portugal’s 10-year yield climbed to as much as 7.80 percent
yesterday, from 7.37 percent on March 18. The difference in
yield investors demand to hold the securities instead of German
bunds widened 32 basis points in the week to 451 basis points,
the most since November. The Portuguese two-year yield rose to
as much as 7.09 percent yesterday, the highest level since 1999.
It was at 6.34 percent on March 18.  Speaking in Brussels yesterday, Socrates said  Portugal 
doesn’t need a rescue. There are “good indications” about
government spending and revenue for March, Socrates said after a
European Union summit.  A bailout for Portugal may total as much as 70 billion
euros, two European officials with direct knowledge of the
matter said March 24.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 