-- 
Germany Stays Perfect in Euro 2012 Qualifying; England Wins to Top Group

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-03-26T22:16:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/germany-remains-perfect-in-euro-2012-qualifying-england-beats-wales-2-0.html
Germany  beat Kazakhstan 4-0 to
remain perfect in qualifying for soccer’s 2012 European
Championship, while England beat Wales 2-0 to stay unbeaten.  Miroslav Klose and Thomas Muller scored two goals each as
Germany won its fifth straight game to move eight points ahead
of Belgium and Austria in Group A.  Frank Lampard  and  Darren Bent  scored in the opening 15
minutes for England at the Millennium Stadium in Cardiff. The
victory moves England above Montenegro in Group G on goal
difference, with both teams having 10 points.  Switzerland and Bulgaria’s scoreless draw left both teams
six points behind the leaders in Group G.  Ireland and Slovakia won to tie  Russia  in Group B with 10
points.  Aiden McGeady and Robbie Keane scored as Ireland beat
Macedonia 2-1, while Filip Sebo’s goal gave Slovakia a 1-0 win
in Andorra. Russia drew 0-0 in Georgia.  Vassilis Torossidis scored in stoppage time for Greece,
which had Sokratis Papastathopoulos red-carded in the 84th
minute, to earn the visitor a 1-0 victory in Malta. The win took
Greece to the top of Group F over Croatia, which suffered its
first loss of the campaign when Levan Kobiashvili scored for
Georgia in the final minute for the home team. Israel beat
Latvia 2-1 in the other group match.  Erik Huseklepp’s goal in the 81st minute earned Norway a 1-
1 draw with  Denmark  in Oslo, while Cyprus and Iceland finished
goalless. Norway leads Group H by three points over Portugal and
Denmark.  Albania beat Belarus 1-0, leaving both four points behind
leader France in Group D, while Bosnia-Herzegovina defeated
Romania 2-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 