-- 
Gillard Party Routed in New South Wales State Election After 16-Year Term

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-03-26T13:00:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/gillard-s-party-routed-in-new-south-wales-state-election-after-16-year-run.html
The Liberal-National coalition
ended 16 years of  Labor Party  rule in New South Wales, promising
better transportation, upgraded hospitals and more teachers,
nurses and police in  Australia ’s most populous state.  Barry O’Farrell’s Liberal Party and its National Party
partners ousted Kristina Keneally’s Labor Party after the
coalition got 16.7 percent more of the vote than at the previous
election after the distribution of preferences. The coalition is
poised to win 59 of the 93 seats in the Legislative Assembly,
where government is formed, according to figures from the New
South Wales Electoral  Commission  after 73 percent of the vote
was counted.  “We’ve won tonight seats that not only have we not held
before, we won tonight seats we’ve never dreamed of ever
winning,” O’Farrell told supporters at Parramatta Leagues Club
in comments broadcast on Australian Broadcasting Corp.
television. “Wherever you live, whatever your job, whatever
your heritage, whatever your religion or your lifestyle -- we
will deliver.”  Keneally’s government endured public scandals and was
blamed for poor transportation in the capital, Sydney, home to
more than half the state’s population of 7.2 million people. New
South  Wales  has also been the  slowest -growing of Australia’s
eight states and territories in the decade to July 2010,
government figures show.  ‘A Massacre’  “It’s a massacre, a slaughter the likes of which none of
us have seen,” New South Wales Labor campaign spokesman and
upper house lawmaker Luke Foley told Australian Broadcasting
Corp. television. “We have lost our heartland.”  Labor may be reduced to 19 seats from the 50 it held before
the election, with two seats going to minor party or independent
members and 13 undecided, the commission’s latest tally said.  O’Farrell, a 51-year-old father of two, won his
parliamentary division in 1995 after being state director of the
 Liberal party , according to the state parliament’s website.  “The change of government presents a real opportunity to
reinvigorate New South Wales, address its underperformance and
rebuild confidence in government,” Australian Industry Group
New South Wales director Mark Goodsell said in an e-mailed
statement.  A U.S.-born mother of two, Keneally became the state’s
first female premier in December 2009. The 42-year-old, who has
an Australian mother and an American father, was born in  Las
Vegas  and grew up in the U.S. before moving to Sydney in 1994,
the New South Wales Labor Party said on its website.  She has become the third Labor premier in three years to
lose the position. Keneally took the post from Nathan Rees, who
served less than 16 months before he was replaced at a party
ballot. Rees replaced Morris Iemma, who resigned in 2008 after
three years.  The Liberal-National coalition, which draws support from
small business and farmers, ended Labor’s 11-year rule in the
state of Victoria in elections in November and formed a
government in  Western Australia  after a ballot in September 2008.
The three states contribute 67 percent of Australia’s A$1.3
trillion ($1.33 trillion) economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  