-- 
IMF's Strauss-Kahn Says Latin America Needs to Reduce Economic Volatility

-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a   a n d   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-03-26T20:17:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/imf-s-strauss-kahn-says-latin-america-needs-to-reduce-growth-volatility.html
Latin America needs to reduce the
volatility of its economic growth by focusing on financial
stability and diversifying the region’s economies, said
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn , managing director of the  International
Monetary Fund .  “Growth in most Latin American economies is now back at
potential, or above -- and in many of them there are worrisome
signs of overheating,” Strauss-Kahn said in a statement
released following a meeting of the  Inter-American Development
Bank  in Calgary today. “Clearly, the earlier economic stimulus
needs to be reversed,” he added.  Economic growth in the region will slow to 4.5 percent this
year from 6.1 percent in 2010 as inflation and rising interest
rates curb expansion, the  Institute of International Finance 
said today in Calgary.  “A monetary tightening cycle has already begun in several
of these countries, and we expect others to move in that
direction during the course of the year,” Frederick Jaspersen,
IIF director for Latin America, said in a statement. “This,
together with gradual withdrawal of fiscal stimulus, will dampen
growth.”  ‘Range of Policies’  As the region is more integrated to global markets, it will
also be more exposed to the volatility of capital inflows, and
while  capital controls  might be useful “in some cases,” they
should not replace the implementation of more regulation,
Strauss-Kahn said.  “A range of policies could be used to prevent overheating
and dampen the credit cycle, including upward exchange rate
flexibility, a more appropriate mix of monetary and fiscal
policies, and adequate financial regulations including a
macroprudential approach,” Strauss-Kahn said in the statement.  The region is being flooded by external investment, with
net inflows of about $237 billion this year, Jaspersen said.  These inflows will continue to strengthen the currencies
in the region, and capital control measures, such as the ones
introduced by  Brazil , will be of little effect, said the IIF,
whose members include 430 financial institutions worldwide.  “Tightening in fiscal policy would allow  interest rates  to
be lower, thus taking the upward pressure off the real in a more
sustained fashion,” said the IFF regional overview, released
today in Calgary.  Monetary Policy , Banks  Countries in the region have been raising interest rates
this year to slow inflation and pare demand.  Brazil raised its Selic rate by a half-point to 11.75
percent on March 2, Uruguay raised its benchmark rate a full
percentage point, more than expected, to 7.5 percent on March
23, while Peru,  Chile  and  Colombia  have also been increasing
borrowing costs.  Latin American and Canadian banks have strong fundamentals,
are “well managed and regulated” and should not be subjected
to “suffocating” new rules, said the IIF report.  “Standardized prescriptive rules designed to fix broken
systems are simply not appropriate for Latin American banks --
and I can include Canadian ones here too,” said Richard Waugh,
chief executive officer of Toronto-based  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  and
vice chairman of the IIF. “Our systems were not, and are not,
broken.”  Brazil, Latin America’s largest economy, will grow 4.8
percent this year, while  Mexico ’s gross domestic product will
rise 4.5 percent and Chile’s 6.5 percent, the IIF report said.
Economic growth in Latin America will reach 4.6 percent in 2012,
the IIF added in its regional overview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabiola Moura in Calgary at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net 
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  