-- 
INA CEO Milkovic Detained in Croatian Corruption Investigation

-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 
2011-03-26T17:04:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/ina-ceo-milkovic-detained-in-croatian-corruption-investigation.html
Bojan Milkovic, chief executive
officer of  INA Industrija Nafte dd (INARA) , was ordered to be held for
30 days on corruption charges by a Croatian investigative judge.  The judge approved the detention requested by the  Office
for Suppression of Corruption and Organized Crime , Vuk Djuricic,
a spokesman for the police unit, said in a phone interview
today. Milkovic was arrested yesterday in his office at the
largest Croatian oil refiner.  Milkovic became CEO of  INA , controlled by Hungary’s Mol
Nyrt., in June 2009, and is the company’s second-highest
executive after Zoltan Aldott, head of the management board.
Previously he was the head of INA’s drilling unit  Crosco d.d.   Milkovic is under investigation for allegations that he
took bribes as an executive in INA from 2002 to 2009, the anti-
corruption office said in the statement on its website late
yesterday. The investigation “is not related to Milkovic’s
current position,” the company said in a statement yesterday.  “INA will cooperate in the investigation,” the company
said in an e-mailed statement. “We hope that allegations
against Mr. Milkovic turn out to be unfounded.” Marina Burazer,
a spokeswoman, declined to comment further when contacted by
phone today.  Mol holds 47 percent of INA, while the Croatian government
owns 45 percent. In addition to 11 exploration and production
plants in  Croatia  and 19 offshore platforms in the northern
Adriatic jointly owned with  Italy ’s ENI SpA and Edison SpA, INA
has upstream facilities in Syria, Egypt and  Angola .  INA is the biggest investor and the fourth-biggest employer
in Croatia, having invested about 17 billion kuna ($3.16
billion) in the last decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  