-- 
Interim Rules May Be Necessary for UN Carbon Market, EU Says

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-03-26T14:13:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/interim-rules-may-be-necessary-for-un-carbon-market-eu-says.html
The  United Nations ’ carbon market
may need rules to ensure stability during a possible gap period
if negotiators fail to iron out a new deal before the current
climate treaty expires in 2012, the European Union said.  EU environment ministers meeting in Budapest vowed the bloc
will try to accelerate international talks on designing a
post-2012 framework to reduce emissions. The negotiations have
stalled amid differences between industrialized and developing
nations, fanning concerns that investors may withdraw from the
UN Clean Development Mechanism, the world’s second-biggest
carbon market.  “It’s important that we ensure stability in the carbon
market,” Hungary’s National Development Minister Tamas Fellegi
told journalists. “We heard worries during the meeting, namely
that the supply side may have shortages. It may be necessary at
this point to work out international rules that could provide
good operations for the market during a gap period.”  Fellegi, who led today’s meeting because  Hungary  holds the
27-nation EU’s rotating six-month  presidency , said further steps
should be taken to “ensure good cooperation with market
operators.”  The Clean Development Mechanism, known as the CDM,
generates emission-reduction credits for projects that cut
 greenhouse gases  in developing nations. Countries can use the
Certified Emission Reduction credits to meet their targets under
the climate-protection  Kyoto Protocol , which expires at the end
of 2012.  Meeting Quotas  Companies in the EU emissions-trading system, the world’s
largest, can also use the credits as a cheaper way of complying
with their pollution quotas. While the value of transactions in
the EU program climbed to $118 billion in 2009, sales of new CDM
credits contracted 59 percent to $2.7 billion, according to the
 World Bank .  The EU’s cap-and-trade program is the cornerstone of
Europe’s strategy to cut greenhouse gases that scientists blame
for global warming. It imposes pollution limits on more than
11,000 utilities and manufacturers in the region, including
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s largest oil company;
ThyssenKrupp, Germany’s biggest steelmaker; and Electricite de
France SA, Europe’s No. 1 power generator.  EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said Europe was
holding numerous bilateral meetings about the post-2012 climate-
protection regime with countries including Russia and Japan,
which said they didn’t want to extend the Kyoto Protocol unless
the two biggest emitters,  China  and the U.S., accept the
agreement. Europe’s goal is to have a binding deal, she said.  “Although it’s difficult with Kyoto, you can be assured
it’s more difficult without Kyoto,” Hedegaard told the news
conference in Budapest. “It’s important that the work must be
carried over in whatever comes after 2012. That’s a key European
priority. The question of a future legal form is very important
for  Europe , and we’ll do whatever we can to try to give it the
right push.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  