-- 
Quake Evacuees Survive on Rice Balls, Bread, Seek to Avoid Contracting Flu

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-03-26T08:58:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/japan-s-evacuees-battle-flu-survive-on-rice-balls-and-bread.html
Relief workers in Japan’s
 earthquake -stricken region are struggling to provide many
residents with just two meals a day, while influenza is
spreading at some evacuation centers, local authorities said.  In Miyagi, the hardest-hit prefecture, shelters continue to
feed people rice balls and bread even after restored  utilities
allowed many who still have houses to go home. Medical teams are
struggling to access some areas in Iwate prefecture to deliver
medicine as flu is spreading at some of the 383 local evacuation
centers, authorities there said.  “Medication for flu is being delivered," said Naoto
Wakuishi, a spokesman for Iwate prefecture, in northeast Japan.
"But transportation is tough, and even if staff do go in, it’s
hard for them to get around."  Shortages of fuel and food continued to complicate relief
efforts more than two weeks after a magnitude-9 earthquake and
tsunami devastated  Japan ’s northeast coastline, wiping entire
towns off the map. In Miyagi, authorities may need to provide
basic needs for evacuees for two to three months, the time it
may take to it build temporary homes, a spokesman for the local
disaster control headquarters said.  Two Meals a Day  The number of evacuees in Miyagi fell to about 86,000 today
from a peak of about 300,000 as people returned to their homes,
said the spokesman, who asked to be identified only by his last
name, Tokairin. With food in short supply, many still come back
to shelters to eat, he said.  ‘‘We need about 320,000 meals a day, even if everyone only
has two meals a day," he said. ‘‘It’s tough for vendors to
provide."  The death toll from the disaster rose to 10,418 as of 3
p.m. local time, with 17,072 people missing, according to the
 National Police Agency  in Tokyo. The total number of evacuees
was 244,439, including 86,308 in Fukushima prefecture and 43,728
in Iwate, according to the police.  Those suffering from flu in Iwate are being separated from
other evacuees to limit the spread of disease, Wakuishi said.
There is a shortage of sanitary goods and clothes, and people
are suffering from fatigue and a lack of privacy or access to
baths after two weeks of evacuation, he said.  Radiation Fears  "We worry about the health of evacuees," said Keiichi
Sakamoto, a spokesman for Fukushima prefecture, home to the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant, where Tokyo Electric
Power Co. is battling to contain radiation leaks after reactors
were crippled by the earthquake and tsunami.  Fear about the radiation leaks, which have prompted
evacuations of residents living near the power plant, is making
some suppliers reluctant to deliver goods to the area, Sakamoto
said today by phone. In addition to gasoline and heating oil,
evacuation centers in Fukushima are short on basic items
including underwear for women and babies, he said.  "It’s important necessary goods be delivered," Sakamoto
said. "We want people to know that areas outside a 30-kilometer
radius from the plant are safe."  Shortages of gasoline are making it difficult for people
trying to relocate, and there is little public transportation,
Sakamoto said. Even with snow on the ground today, people don’t
have fuel to heat their homes, he said.  ‘We Want Fuel’  "Many cars are lined up at gasoline stations every day,"
Sakamoto said. "We want fuel so badly."  Some progress has been made in restoring transportation
infrastructure in Miyagi, Tokairin said.  "Most of the roads have recovered and are now accessible,"
he said. "This is an area where people can’t live without access
to cars, even before the quake. People are finally starting to
have access to fuel, so I am hoping this can help give momentum
to the recovery."  The main  expressway  between  Tokyo  and the most-affected
region opened March 24 for the first time since the earthquake,
while bullet-train lines in the area resumed partial service.  In Iwate, "essential utilities like gas, electricity, water
and phone lines still haven’t been restored," Wakuishi said.
"People still can’t use land lines at all and are unable to
contact their families in other parts of Japan."  Still, electricity is gradually coming back and roads have
been cleared, allowing people who were isolated after the quake
to be reached, he said.  "Saving lives used to be the priority, but now we are
working toward restoration," Wakuishi said.  Bread, Rice Balls  Japan’s self-defense forces are helping provide food and
baths for evacuees, according to Wakuishi and Miyagi’s Tokairin.
Some stoves and fuel have been arriving in Miyagi, and food is
being sent in via land and air transportation from other parts
of Japan, Tokairin said, though the supply still isn’t stable.  "Sometimes the plane doesn’t arrive, and because food is
being sent from far away, it’s not delivered until evening," he
said.  Evacuation shelters have been requesting clothes, socks,
underwear, diapers and sanitary products, Tokairin said. Areas
with electricity are in need of washing machines and vacuum
cleaners to keep clothes and shelters clean, and televisions to
access information, he said.  "The task is to provide some ease to the life of people at
the shelters," Tokairin said. "It’s difficult for the evacuees
to go on with just bread and rice balls for two weeks."  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Osaka at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  