-- 
Fukushima Governor Sato Slams Japan's Handling of Nuclear Reactor Disaster

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 
2011-03-30T07:15:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/japan-checks-radiation-in-sea-water-dumped-on-fukushima-s-damaged-reactors.html
Fukushima Prefecture , epicenter of
the world’s worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl in 1986,
accused  Japan ’s central government of sowing confusion and
hampering recovery efforts through poor communication.  "The people of Fukushima are worried about the situation,
so make sure you’re keeping us informed of what the government
is doing," Governor Yuhei Sato said today in a heated exchange
with  Shingo Naito , deputy director general for industrial safety
at the  Ministry for Economy, Trade and Industry .  Almost 5,900 people in Fukushima prefecture died or are
listed as missing following the March 11 quake and subsequent
tsunami, according to the  National Police Agency . More than
177,000 people were evacuated from houses within 20 kilometers
(12.4 miles) of the Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant.  Sato’s criticism was echoed by the mayor of the Fukushima
city of Minami Soma, whose residents were forced to leave
because of quake damage and their proximity to the crippled
facility, which is leaking radiation.  "The government tells us to be ready for further evacuation
orders in case of a ‘worst-case scenario,’ but I wonder what
that suggests?" Minami Soma Mayor Katsunobu Sakurai said in a
telephone interview. “We want to get on with rebuilding our
city. We just don’t have the sort of information we need from
the government.”  Supplies Shortage  While essential services including water, gas and
electricity are about 80 percent restored, the city remains in
desperate need of food and gasoline, Sakurai said. As the
government evacuated people within 20 kilometers of the plant
and warned those within the next 10 kilometers to stay indoors,
truck drivers stopped coming in with supplies.  "As if it wasn’t enough that we were struck by the
disaster, people began treating us as if we were a highly
contaminated city," Sakurai said. Lack of fuel meant "we have to
walk all the way to the edge of the evacuation zone to pick up
supplies."  Naito told Sato, who was elected as an independent in 2006,
that he understood the gravity of the situation, adding that the
government started taking atmospheric readings from vehicles
within the exclusion zone. The exchange took place at a public
meeting of the prefectural emergency task force in Fukushima
city.  Radiation readings rose today in the city, which lies about
61 kilometers from the Dai-Ichi plant. The levels remain well
below the equivalent of the dose from a single X-ray.  Radioactive Iodine  Seawater samples collected yesterday near an outlet south
of the plant had traces of radioactive iodine 3,355 times the
legal limit, Japan’s nuclear safety agency said today. The level
was the highest detected to date and compared with 2,572 times
the limit earlier in the day.  Fukushima had the highest level of iodine-131 among 12
prefectures contaminated by the radioactive material in tests
conducted on March 28,  according to  the  International Atomic
Energy Agency . The level was 23,000 becquerel per square meter,
compared with a reading below 50 becquerel in  Tokyo ’s Shinjuku
Ward, it said. Tokyo lies about 220 kilometers south of the
nuclear plant.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s administration has expressed
frustration with Tokyo Electric Power Co., owner of the damaged
nuclear plant. Kan, who yesterday criticized the company’s
tsunami defenses as inadequate, has pledged transparency in its
handling of the crisis.  The government "has very rudimentary communication skills,"
said Jun Okumura, a former trade ministry official and a
consultant with the Eurasia Group in Tokyo. "They’re making
their best effort at putting information out there but they’re
not very good at it."  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Bill Austin  at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  