-- 
Kentucky Ousts No. 1 Ohio State in NCAAs; Kansas, North Carolina, VCU Win

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-03-26T06:09:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/kentucky-ousts-no-1-ohio-state-in-ncaas-kansas-north-carolina-vcu-win.html
Freshman Brandon Knight hit a
15-foot jump shot with 5.4 seconds remaining as the
University of  Kentucky  knocked off overall top seed Ohio
State University 62-60 in the regional semifinals of the
men’s college basketball tournament.  The fourth-seeded Wildcats advanced to an East Region
final matchup tomorrow with the University of North
Carolina, which dominated Marquette University 81-63 to win
a record 105th  National Collegiate Athletic Association 
tournament game. Kentucky is second with 104 victories.  The University of Kansas is the last remaining of four
regional No. 1 seeds following the Jayhawks’ 77-57 win
against the  University of Richmond  in a Southwest Region
semifinal. Kansas tomorrow will take on 11th-seeded
Virginia Commonwealth University, which topped No. 10 seed
Florida State University 72-71 in overtime.  It was the second game-winning shot in the tournament
for Kentucky’s Knight, who scored on a layup with two
seconds remaining in an opening-round win against
Princeton. Before both baskets, Kentucky coach John Calipari opted to forgo a timeout to set a play.  “I have all the faith in the world in Brandon,”
Calipari said at a news conference. “Against Princeton he
couldn’t make a shot, but he made the layup. Today he
struggled shooting, but he made that last one. If we are in
another game and it is late, that coach will know we’re
playing through Brandon.”  Knight had nine points on 3-of-10 shooting from the
field. With the game-winner, he broke  John Wall ’s freshman
scoring record at Kentucky, bringing his season total to
618 points.  Knight’s Game-Winner  After Kentucky (28-8) junior guard DeAndre Liggins
banked in a shot from the left side of the lane to give the
Wildcats a 60-57 advantage with 36 seconds remaining, Ohio
State’s Jon Diebler drained a 23-foot 3-pointer to even the
score with 25 seconds left. That led to Knight’s game-
winner. A 3-point attempt in the final seconds by the
Buckeyes’ William Buford missed the mark.  Diebler had 16 points for the Buckeyes (34-3), who
were held to 33 percent shooting for the game.  “They did a good job of challenging shots, obviously,
with their length,” Diebler said in a news conference.
“We are going against length all year and those are shots
that we make, and tonight they weren’t going in.”  In the first of today’s two regional final matchups,
the second-seeded University of Florida (29-7) will take on
No. 8 seed Butler University (26-9) in  New Orleans  to
determine the Southeast Region winner. Butler is trying to
return to the national championship game for the second
straight season. The Bulldogs came within a narrowly missed
last-second half-court shot of beating the Duke Blue Devils
for last year’s title.  West Region Final  In the second game, a West Region matchup in Anaheim,
 California , No. 3 seed University of Connecticut (29-9)
meets fifth-seeded University of Arizona (30-7).  In a game at the Prudential Center in  Newark ,  New
Jersey , that was reminiscent of a heavyweight title fight,
the Wildcats’ win last night included 12 second-half lead
changes.  Liggins scored 15 points with 6 rebounds, while Josh
Harrellson led Kentucky with 17 points and 10 rebounds.
Ohio State’s freshman forward Jared Sullinger posted game
highs of 21 points and 16 rebounds, charging up Ohio State
fans with a couple of powerful second-half dunks, shaking
his fists and screaming, “Let’s go! Let’s go!” each time.  It wasn’t enough for Ohio State, which lost for the
first time in six NCAA tournament games against Kentucky.  North Carolina  Wins  Junior forward Tyler Zeller had a game-high 27 points
and 12 rebounds and freshman forward Harrison Barnes added
20 points and 9 rebounds for North Carolina.  The Tar Heels used a 19-0 first-half run that spanned
just more than 10 minutes to take a 27-10 advantage against
Marquette. The Golden Eagles went 0-for-14 shooting during
the stretch, turning the ball over five times.  “We did a great job of forcing them out of their
offense, and then just not letting them ever take a
comfortable shot,” Zeller, a 7-foot junior forward, said
at a news conference.  For the half, Marquette shot 20 percent from the field
in on 6-of-30 shooting, failed to record an assist and
turned the ball over 12 times as compared to three for the
Tar Heels.  “I thought in the first half we were pitiful,”
Marquette coach Buzz Williams said. “I knew they were
really good, and I thought they played even better than
good.”  Marquette’s Loss  North Carolina led by as many as 32 points in the
second half, while the closest Marquette could get was a
14-point deficit.  Kansas  also used a strong first half -- which included
a 21-2 run -- to dominate its Southwest Region semifinal
win against Richmond at the Alamodome in  San Antonio .  “They missed shots, which we benefited from, but for
the most part, we took away easy points and layups,”
Kansas coach Bill Self said.  Kansas’ Brady Morningstar scored 18 points and Marcus
Morris had 13 to lead the Jayhawks, while Justin Harper had
22 points and 9 rebounds to pace the 12th-seeded Spiders.  In the game that followed, Florida State (23-11)
scored seven straight points after trailing 36-31 at
halftime to take the lead. Virginia Commonwealth (27-11)
responded, going up as much as eight points before the
Seminoles rallied as Chris Singleton hit a 3-pointer with
less than a minute left to tie the game at 65-65, forcing
overtime.  Burgess Leads Rams  Bradford Burgess, who scored 26 points in the win,
gave the Rams a 68-67 lead on a 3-pointer, and he also hit
the winning layup with 6 seconds left in overtime.
Singleton missed a jump shot at the buzzer.  “I had been messing up,” Burgess, who had four
turnovers and went 9-of-15 from the field, said in a
televised courtside interview after the game. “I said if I
could get the ball I wanted to win it for the team.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson at the Prudential Center at   mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  