-- 
Obama Says U.S. Military Alliance Thwarted Libyan ‘Catastrophe’

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-03-26T10:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/obama-says-u-s-military-alliance-thwarted-libyan-catastrophe-.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
U.S. and its allies have halted Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s
forces, destroyed his air defenses and prevented a
“humanitarian catastrophe” through military action.  Obama said in his weekly  radio and Internet address  that
while the U.S. shouldn’t get involved in every crisis, “when
someone like Qaddafi threatens a bloodbath that could
destabilize an entire region, and when the international
community is prepared to come together to save many thousands of
lives, then it’s in our national interest to act.” The nation
has a “responsibility” to help in  Libya , he said.  The mission in Libya, which began March 19 when U.S.,
French and U.K. forces began enforcing a no-fly zone, is “clear
and focused,” Obama said. The U.S. is carrying out a United
Nations mandate to protect Libyan civilians from a violent
crackdown by their leader, he said.  “Make no mistake, because we acted quickly, a humanitarian
catastrophe has been avoided and the lives of countless
civilians -- innocent men, women and children -- have been
saved,” the president said.  Obama reiterated that the U.S. role has been “limited” in
scope, and he said it won’t include sending ground forces.  “This is now a broad, international effort,” he said,
citing the work of allies in the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization and support from such Arab countries as Qatar and
the  United Arab Emirates . NATO agreed on March 24 to take
command of the no-fly zone and according to spokeswoman Oana
Lungescu is “actively considering” a broader role over all
operations.  Sharing ‘Responsibility’  “This is how the international community should work --
more nations, not just the  United States , bearing the
responsibility and cost of upholding peace and security,” Obama
said. He said the international community is working to “hold
the Qaddafi regime accountable,” which includes freezing the
Libyan leader’s foreign assets worth tens of billions of
dollars.  “Our message is clear and unwavering,” the president
said. “Qaddafi’s attacks against civilians must stop.”  Oil prices  have jumped about 25 percent since the Libyan
rebellion began in mid-February, heightening concerns that
Middle East crude supplies could be reduced. The revolt has
evolved from the kind of popular uprising seen in Egypt and
 Tunisia  into a civil war.  Obama will address the nation next week on the action in
Libya, the White House said in a statement yesterday.  The speech, scheduled for 7:30 p.m. local time on March 28
at the National Defense University in Washington, is designed to
provide an update on the situation, including the transfer to
NATO command and control.  Republican Address  In the  Republican address , Governor  Bob McDonnell  of
Virginia said the health-care overhaul, which was “rammed
through Congress in a partisan vote” a year ago, pushes
“expensive, unfunded and unsustainable programs onto the rest
of us.”  He urged the  Supreme Court  to swiftly decide whether the
law is constitutional and criticized the Obama administration
for opposing an expedited appeal to the high court.  Virginia  filed a lawsuit on March 23 within minutes of
Obama signing the landmark law, a top priority of his
administration. In the suit, the state’s attorney general, Ken Cuccinelli, argued that Congress has the power only to tax and
can’t force people to participate in a market. A federal judge
agreed in December that the measure unconstitutionally requires
Americans to maintain a minimum level of health insurance.  Cases on Appeal  The Virginia case is one of several suits challenging the
requirement that people either obtain insurance or pay a
penalty. U.S. district court judges have reached different
conclusions, and three appellate courts are preparing to take up
the issue.  The overhaul had “more to do with expanding control by the
federal government than actually reforming our health-care
system,” McDonnell said.  McDonnell, who is vice chairman of the  Republican Governors
Association , said the law limits governors’ abilities to control
state programs and will result in higher costs and less
innovation.  The law’s expansion of Medicaid, the government health
insurance program for the poor, is unsustainable and will leave
less money for roads, schools and  law enforcement , he said. In
Virginia, Medicaid makes up 21 percent of the general budget and
costs will rise further, McDonnell said.  ‘Budget-Buster’  “The federal health-care bill is not only a budget-buster,
it’s also unconstitutional,” he said.  The “bureaucratic” law should be replaced with
“innovative, free-market policies that drive down costs and
increase coverage.” He said better options include enacting
lawsuit reform, letting Americans buy insurance across state
lines, promoting health savings accounts, and permitting
voluntary, market-based purchasing exchanges.  The U.S. needs “policies that recognize what history
teaches well, and that is that the creative solutions of the
free market beat one-size-fits-all plans of big government,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Washington  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  