-- 
Thousands Rally in Abidjan in Support of Disputed President Laurent Gbagbo

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   B a u d e l a i r e   M i e u
-- 
2011-03-26T18:53:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/thousands-rally-in-abidjan-in-support-of-disputed-president-laurent-gbagbo.html
Thousands of supporters of  Laurent Gbagbo , the incumbent Ivory Coast leader who refuses to
relinquish the presidency of the West African nation, rallied in
the center of Abidjan, paralyzing economic activity in the city.  At least 10,000 people heeded a call today by Gbagbo’s
Youth Minister Charles Ble Goude to show their support for the
embattled politician, whose rival  Alassane Ouattara  is the
internationally recognized winner of a Nov. 28 election.  “We are here to ask God to protect Gbagbo,” said Justine
Koukougnon, a teacher, in an interview. “We want to show Obama
and Sarkozy that we, the Ivorians, know what’s best for us.”  The rally was attended by Pascal Affi N’Guessan, head of
Gbagbo’s political party, and several ministers of his
government. Shops remained closed across the area and traffic
was at a minimum.  The world’s top cocoa producer “is close to civil war,”
 Gerard Araud ,  France ’s ambassador to the  United Nations . It has
been mired in a political crisis since the election, with as
many as 1 million people reported to have fled clashes in
Abidjan, the country’s biggest city, according to the UN High
Commissioner for Refugees.  Residents of the northern neighborhood Abobo, where
security forces loyal to Gbagbo have repeatedly clashed with
insurgents backing Ouattara, said they heard gunfire and
artillery last night.  At least 462 people have been killed since the elections,
most of them civilians, according to the United Nations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax and Baudelaire Mieu in Abidjan via Accra at 
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 