-- 
Pakistan Holds Key Rate at 14% After Inflation Slows to Lowest in 7 Months

-- B y   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-03-26T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/pakistan-holds-key-interest-rate-at-14-as-inflation-eases-1-.html
Pakistan’s central bank kept
 interest rates  unchanged for a second straight meeting, in line
with economists’ forecasts, as the inflation rate slowed to a
seven-month low.  The  State Bank  of Pakistan kept the discount rate at 14
percent, according to a statement released in Lahore yesterday.
The decision was predicted by all 20 economists and researchers
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Governor Shahid Kardar has signaled he’s concerned a
further increase in the benchmark, one of the highest in the
world, will hurt growth. President Asif Ali Zardari, whose
government’s borrowing was blamed by the central bank for
fueling inflation, imposed taxes and announced spending cuts
this year after the  International Monetary Fund  warned that its
aid program may be delayed by inaction over the  budget deficit .  “The easing in inflation and taxation measures taken by
the government seem to be two main reasons behind the
decision,” Khalid Iqbal Siddiqui, head of research at Invest &
Finance Securities Ltd. in Karachi, said before the
announcement. “But the commodity-price rise in international
markets may pass on inflationary pressure going forward.”  The Pakistan rupee rose 0.3 percent to 85 a dollar on March
25. Ten-year  government bonds  were little changed. The Karachi
Stock Exchange KSE100 Index has declined about 4 percent this
quarter after advancing 24 percent in the six months through
December.  Consumer prices rose 12.91 percent in February after a
14.19 percent gain in January, the  Federal Bureau of Statistics 
said on March 10.  Political Pressure  Inflation may slow further after Pakistan decided to reduce
by half an increase in domestic fuel prices for March, meeting a
demand by Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani ’s key coalition
ally, Muttahida Qaumi Movement. The government had on March 1
raised fuel prices by as much as 9.9 percent, ending a five-
month freeze.  Zardari on March 15 announced a 15 percent surcharge on
income tax to counter losses from the nation’s worst monsoon
flooding last year, and an increase in  import duties  to 2.5
percent from one percent. The government will also withdraw
sales tax exemptions on fertilizer, pesticides and tractors.  The tax measures and spending cuts may generate 120 billion
rupees ($1.4 billion) for the government, which is seeking to
cut its budget deficit to 5.5 percent of gross domestic product
in the year to June from 6.3 percent in the last fiscal year.  IMF Pressure  The Washington-based IMF urged Pakistan to keep reducing
its budget deficit after a meeting with the country’s
authorities this month.  The fund hasn’t disbursed any money to Pakistan since May
after the country failed to meet the conditions attached to an
$11.3-billion loan first issued in 2008. In December, it
approved a nine-month extension of the loan to give Pakistani
authorities time to comply with some elements of the agreement,
including implementing a reformed  sales tax .  Government borrowing rose 40 percent to 438 billion rupees
between July 1 and March 12 from a year earlier, according to
the  central bank .  Pakistan’s $168 billion economy, sapped by terrorism and
floods in 2010, is lagging behind as emerging markets from
neighboring  India  to  China  help lead the global economic rebound
from the deepest postwar recession.  Slower Growth  The government forecasts the economy will expand 2.5
percent in the year through June, slower than the original
target of 4.5 percent. India’s $1.3 trillion economy may grow as
much as 9.25 percent in the year starting April 1, government
forecast last month.  Pakistan’s discount rate is the highest among the 53
benchmark rates in the world tracked by Bloomberg including the
U.S.,  Japan  and the euro region.  Further increases in borrowing costs would hurt the
expansion plans of companies including D.G. Khan Cement Co.,
Inayat Ullah Niazi, chief financial officer at D.G. Khan,
 Pakistan ’s second-biggest cement manufacturer, said in a
telephone interview from Lahore on March 24.  Pakistan, which imports 80 percent of its fuel needs, may
face pressure from rising oil prices, which have exceeded $100 a
barrel after political tensions flared in the Middle East and
 Libya .  Crude for May delivery fell 20 cents to settle at $105.40 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  on March 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Farhan Sharif in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 Fsharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Dick Schumacher at   dschumacher@bloomberg.net  