-- 
Pound Slumps as Concerns Mount Over U.K. Recovery, BOE Rates

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-03-26T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/pound-slumps-as-concerns-mount-over-u-k-recovery-boe-rates.html
The pound posted its steepest
weekly decline in a month in a gauge of 10 developed-nation
currencies on concern the U.K. recovery is stalling and that the
Bank of England will wait to raise  interest rates .  Sterling reached its weakest since November versus the euro
as investors bet the  European Central Bank  will raise interest
rates before the its U.K. counterpart after ECB President Jean- Claude Trichet reiterated policy makers may increase borrowing
costs next month. The currency declined against most of its
major peers as data showed inflation surged and retail sales
slumped amid government spending cuts.  “Interest-rate expectations have certainly been a key
driver for the pound and the euro,” said  Simon Smith , chief
economist at FXPro Financial Services Ltd. in London. “People
are still betting Trichet is still most likely to raise rates
but on the U.K. side, certainly after the retail sales figures,
a little more doubt has crept in.”  The pound weakened 0.6 percent in the week to 87.85 pence
per euro, as of 4:35 p.m. in London yesterday, its fifth-
straight week of declines. It depreciated 1.3 percent against
the  U.S. dollar  to $1.6030.  Sterling dropped 1.2 percent this week, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, which track 10
developed-market currencies, its biggest drop since Feb. 25. The
U.K. currency has gained 0.6 percent this year, trailing the
euro’s 3.3 percent advance, the Swedish krona and Norwegian
krone, the indexes show.  Retail Sales  The pound slid the most in two months versus the euro on
March 24 after data showed U.K. retail sales dropped more than
economists estimated in February. In his annual budget speech
the day before Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said
the economy will grow 1.7 percent in 2011, down from an earlier
forecast for a 2.1 percent expansion.  Consumer prices accelerated to the fastest pace in more
than two years last month, rising 4.4 percent from a year
earlier. Minutes of the  Bank of England ’s March 10 meeting,
published on March 23, showed policy makers voted 6-3 to keep
interest rates on hold even as they forecast inflation may
accelerate and surpass 5 percent.  Gilts declined, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year
government bond 10 basis points higher to 3.61 percent in the
week. The two-year note yield gained nine basis points to
1.28 percent.  U.K. government debt has handed investors a 0.4 percent
loss this year, compared with a 1.8 percent loss for German
bonds and 0.2 percent return for  U.S. Treasuries , according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 