-- 
Radiation Levels Rise at Fukushima as Government Says Situation Is Stable

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a ,   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-03-26T15:19:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/radiation-levels-rise-at-fukushima-as-government-says-situation-is-stable.html
Japan ’s government said the nuclear
crisis at a quake-damaged power plant isn’t getting worse as
radiation levels rise in sea water used to cool over-heating
fuel rods.  “There’s no doubt we have been able to prevent the
situation at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant from getting worse,”
Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said in Tokyo yesterday.
“The situation doesn’t permit us to loosen our grip.”  Tokyo Electric Power Co., the plant’s operator, started
using pumps to drain water from the turbine building in the No.
1 reactor and store it in tanks. Radiation readings of between
200-300 millisieverts per hour were found in water at the No. 2
unit, Hidehiko Nishiyama, a spokesman at Japan’s Nuclear and
Industrial Safety Agency, said yesterday. That is equivalent to
the maximum-permitted exposure for workers battling to contain
the crisis.  Repair work at the site of the worst nuclear disaster since
Chernobyl has been hampered by explosions and radiation leaks.
Tepco, as the utility is called, is studying how much water is
in the No. 2 and No. 3 reactors before attempting to drain them.  Tepco switched on the lights in the control room of its No.
2 reactor yesterday, Vice President Sakae Muto said at a press
conference in  Tokyo . The utility already turned on lights at its
No. 1 and No. 3 reactors.  Power Cable  “We are not ready to comment on the schedule to turn on
other facilities,” Muto said. “We need to connect a power
cable to a cooling pump, which is located in the turbine housing
where the water pool was found. We need to drain the water on
the basement floor first.”  Muto said he can’t confirm that water from Tepco’s reactors
is flowing into the sea.  The company is also starting to switch to fresh water for
its cooling efforts of spent fuel rods and the reactor core to
prevent further salt corrosion. Tepco stopped dousing sea water
on a pool containing spent fuel rods in the No. 1 reactor after
radiation levels rose to 200 millisieverts per hour,  Kyodo News 
reported, without citing anyone.  “I was relieved to see the statements about freshwater
pumping,” said David Weaver, professor of nuclear physics at
Birmingham University in the U.K. “That means they’re in less
of an emergency situation, though it’s still difficult and there
may be a downturn again.”  Fresh Water  Tepco switched to using fresh water to cool the No. 2
reactor at 10:10 a.m. local time, and began draining excess
water from the turbine building of the No. 1 unit, Muto said.
The company is considering a similar operation on the No. 2 and
No. 3 turbine houses, he said.  Radioactive nuclides including cesium-136 and  yttrium-91 
were found in water at the turbine building of No. 1 reactor,
the nuclear agency said in a  statement  on its website. Three
workers were exposed to radiation on March 24 after stepping in
water at the No. 3 unit, which indicated a possible leakage from
the reactor core, the agency said.  Iodine levels measured in sea water close to the plant on
March 25 were 1,251 times the legal limit, Nishiyama said. Those
levels are not harmful to health, he said.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  will appoint Sumio Mabuchi, a
former land and transport minister, as an adviser on the nuclear
crisis, Edano said. Mabuchi, 50, is a  former engineer  at Mitsui
Construction Co.  Tepco plans to drain residual sea water after dumping
almost 4,500 tons on the No. 3 unit and 835 tons on No. 4,
according to government data. Fresh water may be used to cool
the pool containing spent fuel rods at the No. 3 and No. 4
reactors tomorrow, Nishiyama said.  Evacuation  The nuclear agency said it doesn’t believe there is a
physical crack in the pressure or containment vessels, which
surround the core of the No. 3 reactor. Leakage may be coming
from pipes connected to the reactor.  The March 11 quake, Japan’s biggest, and subsequent tsunami
left the plant without power needed to cool nuclear fuel rods.
The government has advised more people living close to the
nuclear site to evacuate because basic goods are in short
supply, while assuring them that radiation levels hadn’t risen
in the area.  Radiation readings between 20 kilometers (12 miles) and 30
kilometers from the plant are falling, according to the Nuclear
Safety Commission of Japan.  Fuel Shortages  “At evacuation centers, we have a short supply of gasoline
and oil for heaters,” Fukushima prefecture public relations
officer Keiichi Sakamoto said by phone yesterday. “We want fuel
so badly.” The crippled plant is about 220 kilometers north of
Tokyo.  The prefecture estimates that about 136,000 people lived
between 20 kilometers and 30 kilometers from the plant and most
have left, Sakamoto said. The rest remain under orders to stay
indoors.  “The infrastructure is starting to recover, as some local
lines are in service,” Sakamoto said. “What we need but we
don’t have is underwear for women and babies.”  The death toll from the quake and tsunami rose to 10,489 as
of 9 p.m. local time, with 16,621 people missing, according to
the  National Police Agency  in Tokyo.  The spread of radiation to food and water supplies prompted
bulk-buying of bottled drinks even as the government said the
health threat remained minimal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Osaka at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Bill Austin  at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  