-- 
Saudi Stocks Climb to 5-Week High on Housing Measures; Dar al Arkan Gains

-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 
2011-03-26T13:20:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/saudi-stocks-climb-to-5-week-high-on-housing-measures-dar-al-arkan-gains.html
Saudi stocks rose to the highest
level in almost five weeks as investors restore confidence in
the Arab world’s largest economy after King Abdullah ordered the
creation of a ministry for housing.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s biggest
petrochemical maker, added 2.5 percent, and  Al Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , the
kingdom’s largest lender, advanced 1 percent. The 146-member
 Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  rose 2.3 percent, the highest level
since Feb. 15, to 6506.01 at the 3:30 p.m. close in Riyadh.  “Day after day, Saudi Arabia has been proving immune from
the surrounding turmoil,” said Amro Halwani, a senior trader at
 Shuaa Capital PSC (SHUAA)  in Riyadh. “With the ongoing, fast-paced
initiatives the government is undergoing, investors are feeling
more confident to place bets on the table.”  Syria is the latest Middle Eastern country to be hit by a
wave of uprisings that ousted longtime rulers in Egypt and
Tunisia and sparked a civil war in Libya.  Saudi Arabia  yesterday created a ministry for housing and
named Shuwaish al-Duwaihi, the director of the General Housing
Authority, as minister. The ministry will assume all duties and
responsibilities of the state-run housing agency, the Saudi
Press Agency reported. On March 18, King Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz
ordered 250 billion riyals ($67 billion) to be spent to build
500,000 housing units.  Property Stocks  “Market whispers of the Saudi mortgage law being passed in
the near future are giving real-estate stocks a boost today,”
Halwani said. The kingdom’s Shoura consultative council on April
3 may pass a mortgage law aimed at bringing private lenders into
the market by creating a clearer set of rules, according to Al-
Madina newspaper.  Dar Al Arkan Real Estate Development Co. (ALARKAN) 
gained 7.5 percent, the most since May 2009, to 9.30 riyals.  “With international equities markets posting good gains
over the weekend and a sustained higher level of oil, traders
are allocating back into equities in anticipation of solid
first-quarter earnings results,” said Fuad Aghabi, investment
director at Ajeej Capital in Riyadh.  The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 0.4 percent and the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.3 percent yesterday. Oil
fell 20 cents to settle at $105.40 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  Saudi Basic, also known as Sabic, advanced to 103.50
riyals, the highest since Feb. 15. Al Rajhi, the kingdom’s
biggest publicly traded lender by market value, rose to 77.75
riyals, the highest level since March 20.  Banque Saudi Fransi (BSFR) 
climbed 6.4 percent to 48 riyals.  Sahara Petrochemical Co. (SPC)  jumped 4.6 percent to 22.80
riyals, the highest since Jan. 17. The Saudi Arabian
manufacturer of chemicals said its Al-Waha Petrochemical Co.
unit will start commercial operations on April 1.  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Gulf Arab bourse
open on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  