-- 
Scotiabank Chief Executive Waugh Favors LSE Purchase of TMX

-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-03-26T20:06:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/scotiabank-s-waugh-favors-lse-purchase-of-tmx-if-governance-issues-weighed.html
Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  Chief Executive
Officer Richard Waugh said he favors the acquisition of  TMX
Group Inc. (X)  by the owner of the London Stock Exchange as long as
governance and  Canada ’s national interest are protected.  “My hope is that this deal goes through with some
modifications that do protect national and regional interests,”
Waugh told reporters at the annual meeting of the Inter-American
Development Bank in Calgary today. “They have to negotiate and
find solutions.”  Issues of corporate and regulatory governance need further
negotiations before the deal should be allowed to proceed, Waugh
said. Regional exchanges are important in times of crisis, such
as the one Egypt, where the reopening of banks and financial
markets was a sign of a return to normalcy, he said.  Canada’s banks, which are usually united on most policy
issues, are divided on the proposed C$3.2 billion ($3.3 billion)
transaction amid concern about job losses and surrendering
regulatory control of the securities industry. Scotiabank,
Canada’s third-largest bank, is the last of the nation’s six
biggest banks to voice an opinion on the transaction.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
and  National Bank of Canada (NA)  said they oppose the sale to the
 London Stock Exchange Group Plc. (LSE)   Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  and  Bank
of Montreal (BMO) , which are advising on the deal, support the
combination.  “I am head of Canada’s most international bank,” Waugh
said. “It’s a very fine line of looking after true national
interest and overreacting in a protectionist way. These
transactions should get done. It is an important issue.”  The banks opposing the transaction released a letter March
9 outlining their concerns, saying Canada’s clout as a center
for mining and energy trading may be diminished.  The transaction is “not the same as two mining companies
getting together,” Waugh said.  “I think that has to be
recognized by all participants including the two that are
negotiating.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 