-- 
Sebastian Vettel Wins Pole Position for Australian Formula One Grand Prix

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-03-26T14:36:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/sebastian-vettel-wins-pole-position-for-australian-formula-one-grand-prix.html
Sebastian Vettel will begin defense
of his Formula One world championship from pole position after
qualifying fastest for today’s season-opening Australian Grand
Prix.  Vettel was quickest in a time of 1 minute, 23.529 seconds
around  Melbourne ’s Albert Park circuit yesterday to beat
McLaren’s  Lewis Hamilton  by 0.778 second. Vettel’s Red Bull
teammate  Mark Webber  was third ahead of  Jenson Button  in the
other McLaren.  Vettel, who claimed 10 pole positions last season on his
way to becoming the youngest driver to win the title, entered
the weekend as the bookmakers’ favorite to win the race, which
is scheduled to start at 5 p.m. local time.  “We have made the first step and starting the season this
way with a pole position is a good sign for the team,” Vettel,
23, told reporters after qualifying. “If you look at the points,
we still have zero like everyone else, so we need to see what
happens tomorrow.”  Fernando Alonso  will line up fifth on the starting grid in
his Ferrari ahead of Renault’s Vitaly Petrov and Nico Rosberg of
Mercedes. Ferrari’s  Felipe Massa , Sauber’s Kamui Kobayashi and
Sebastien Buemi of Toro Rosso rounded out the top 10.  Hispania drivers Narain Karthikeyan and Vitantonio Liuzzi
failed to qualify after their best times weren’t good enough to
pass a reinstated rule stating that any driver whose fastest lap
exceeds 107 percent of the quickest lap in the opening 20-minute
qualifying period won’t be allowed to compete.  The Hispania cars didn’t take to the track in Melbourne
until the latter stages of practice two days ago. The team made
a request to stewards to start, which was rejected.  “In the end it just couldn’t be, still I’m proud of my
whole team,” Hispania team principal Colin Kolles said in a
statement. “The circumstances in which we arrived were not as
desired. We created a miracle again, but it wasn’t enough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  