-- 
Fed Should Weigh Curtailing $600 Billion in Bond Purchases, Bullard Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-03-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/u-s-1st-qtr-gdp-may-not-be-as-strong-as-expected-bullard-says.html
St. Louis Federal Reserve Bank
President  James Bullard  said policy makers should review whether
to curtail a plan to buy $600 billion in Treasury securities,
noting that the U.S. recovery may not need that much stimulus.  “The economy is looking pretty good,” Bullard said to
reporters in Marseille,  France , on March 26. “It is still
reasonable to review QE2 in the coming meetings, especially this
April meeting, and see if we want to decide to finish the
program or to stop a little bit short,” he said, referring to
the second round of so-called quantitative easing.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has given no indication the
central bank will deviate from its plan to buy bonds through
June to spur economic growth and reduce 8.9 percent unemployment.
Bullard, who in July became the first policy maker to call for
Fed purchases of Treasuries, has said the  Federal Open Market
Committee  should review the plan at every meeting and, if
necessary, continue it indefinitely.  Bernanke said in two days of congressional testimony this
month that while growth will accelerate this year, he still
wants to see a “sustained period of stronger  job creation .” He
has avoided indicating what the Fed’s next step will be after
finishing the $600 billion of purchases.  “While indicators of spending and production have been
encouraging on balance, the job market has improved only
slowly,” Bernanke, 57, a former Princeton University economist,
said March 1 and March 2 in semiannual hearings on monetary
policy.  Close to Zero  Policy makers at their March 15 meeting indicated they see
an improving economy that lacks enough strength to warrant
removing record monetary stimulus. They left the benchmark
federal funds rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent, where
it’s been since December 2008. They also retained a pledge in
place since March 2009 to keep the rate “exceptionally low”
for an “extended period.”  While the economy is stronger than last summer and fall and
quantitative easing should be reviewed, uncertainties remain,
including  Japan , political tensions in the Middle East, the U.S.
fiscal position and the European sovereign debt crisis, Bullard
said.  U.S. first-quarter gross domestic product may not be as
strong as anticipated several weeks ago, and some strengthening
may get pushed into the second quarter, he said.  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 3.1 percent annual rate in the
fourth quarter, led by a jump in  consumer spending  that will be
hard to match early in the year as energy prices surge. Rising
oil prices sparked by turmoil in the Middle East may erode
consumers’ purchasing power, and supply constraints caused by
the Japan earthquake and its aftermath slow the pace of recovery
this quarter.  ‘Not Enough’  The oil price increases so far are “not enough to derail
the U.S. recovery at this level,” Bullard said. “If oil prices
stabilize where they are, we’ll be fine.” Prices would have to
go substantially higher for there to be a “significant and
material effect,” he said.  “We have to weigh those in the decision” on whether to
stop the Fed’s QE2 program earlier than planned, Bullard said.  U.S. central bankers have said they will keep  interest
rates  near zero for an extended period. In contrast, European
Central Bank officials indicated this month that uncertainty
caused by Japan’s earthquake may not deter them from raising
interest rates next month.  “We’re far away from normal policy,” Bullard said. “I
think it’s important to take a few steps back to normality. Even
if you make a few small moves, monetary policy will still be
accommodative for some time to come.”  ‘Still Suffer’  While the economy may still suffer shocks, the “balance
sheet should be contingent” and the Fed should be ready if the
economy turns down, he said.  “If the economy is as strong as I think it is then I think
it may be reasonable to send a signal to markets that we’re
going to start withdrawing our stimulus, and I’d start by
pulling up a little bit short on the QE2 program,” Bullard said.
“We can’t be as accommodative as we are today for too long,
we’ll create a lot of inflation if we do that.”  If the Fed opts to start withdrawing stimulus and tighten
policy, it should start with the “balance sheet” by selling
bonds first, then changing its wording about keeping interest
rates near zero for an “extended period” and then raising
interest rates, Bullard said.  Bullard has warned since last July about a risk of
Japanese-style deflation in the U.S. while calling for purchases
of  Treasury securities  to reduce the threat. Bullard, 50, voted
in favor of the Treasury purchase program in November and has
rotated this year into an annual non-voting position.  Stronger Economy  Bullard said last month the U.S. central bank may need to
reduce the amount of purchases in light of stronger U.S.
economic data. Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  and
Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker have also urged a review
of the purchases in light of a strengthening economy and concern
over future inflation.  “It looks like inflation is bottoming out and if we
continue that, I think we will have gone past” the worst, he
said. “We seem to be turning the corner there, but I would want
to see more data on that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  