-- 
U.S. Expands Antitrust Probe of Blue Cross Blue Shield Hopital Contracts

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-26T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/u-s-expands-antitrust-probe-of-blue-cross-blue-shield-hopital-contracts.html
A probe of alleged anti-competitive
agreements between Blue Cross Blue Shield companies and
hospitals has been expanded by the U.S.  Justice Department 
beyond Michigan, where an antitrust lawsuit was filed last year.  Federal and state investigators sent civil subpoenas to
Blue Cross Blue Shield units in  Kansas , Missouri, Ohio, West
Virginia,  North Carolina ,  South Carolina  and the  District of
Columbia , a person familiar with the matter said.  Gina Talamona, a department spokeswoman, confirmed the
investigation has widened to include “various parts” of the
country. She declined to comment on which states investigators
are focusing on.  The  Justice Department  has been looking for ways to cut
medical costs as the government sets up the health-care system
established by legislation signed a year ago this week by
President Barack Obama.  In October, the department sued Blue Cross Blue Shield of
Michigan for allegedly entering agreements that raised hospital
prices. Last month, the department pressured United Regional
Health Care System in Wichita Falls,  Texas , to agree to stop
entering into contracts with insurers that make it harder for
them to work with rivals.  ‘Exclusionary Practices’  The expansion of the Blue Cross Blue Shield investigation
is important because “they’re using exclusionary practices to
hold competitors at bay,” said David Balto, an antitrust
attorney and senior fellow at the Center for American Progress,
a Washington-based policy group that generally favors Democratic
initiatives.  The department’s  Michigan  complaint said Blue Cross
negotiated contracts with 70 of the state’s 131 general acute-
care hospitals that led to higher prices for the insurer’s
competitors. In some cases, the hospitals charged rivals
30 percent to 40 percent more than Blue Cross, the department
said at the time.  Brett Lieberman, a spokesman for the Blue Cross Blue Shield
Association, a Washington-based trade group that licenses the
insurer’s name, said the agreements have saved consumers money.  “It’s our goal to secure the best health care at the best
rates for our members while also ensuring fair compensation to
providers,” he said. Last year, Blue Cross efforts led to
“hundreds of billions of dollars in cost savings for members.”  ‘Received an Inquiry’  Fred Earley, president of Highmark Blue Cross Blue Shield
 West Virginia , said in an interview that his company received
“documents in the last day or so” from the West Virginia
attorney general’s office and the federal government. He and his
general counsel were reviewing the materials, he said.  Elizabeth Hammond, a spokeswoman for Blue Cross Blue Shield
of South Carolina, said, “We received an inquiry from the U.S.
Department of Justice and are working with our counsel to
respond.”  Mary Beth Chambers, a spokeswoman for Blue Cross and Blue
Shield of Kansas, declined to comment.  Spokespeople for Blue Cross insurers in North Carolina,
Ohio, Missouri and  Washington  didn’t return phone calls and
e-mails seeking comment.  The Blue Cross companies in  Ohio  are run by Indianapolis-
based WellPoint Inc.  The probe and suit are concerned with so-called most-
favored-nation clauses in contracts with hospitals that
guarantee no other insurer can get a better rate from the
provider. The clauses are legal unless abused and are used in
other industries, said  Christine Varney , head of the
department’s  Antitrust Division , in October.  The Wall Street Journal reported earlier yesterday on the
broadened investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 