-- 
Walker Sued by Wisconsin Unions as Law ‘Published’ in Defiance of Court

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-03-26T14:29:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/wisconsin-s-walker-sued-by-unions-as-labor-law-published-1-.html
Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker  was
sued by two labor unions over a bill restricting collective
bargaining by public employees while a state bureau published
the law after the secretary of state was ordered not to do so.  A union representing public works employees in Wisconsin’s
capital city of Madison and another for firefighters and other
public safety officers seek in the state court complaint filed
yesterday to have the law invalidated.  Walker signed the law March 11 amid public protests outside
the Capitol and after 14 Democratic state senators had boycotted
the legislative session in an attempt to deprive the chamber of
the quorum required to consider measures with a fiscal impact. A
joint committee drawn from both houses severed the measure from
a larger so-called budget repair bill, enabling it to be
considered separately.  “When the senate passed said bill on March 9, 2011, it did
so without the presence of the constitutionally required
quorum,” the union locals said in their complaint.  The legislation, championed by the first-term Republican
governor, requires annual recertification votes for union
representation and makes payment of union dues voluntary.  Wisconsin ’s Legislative Reference Bureau published the law
yesterday, a step toward its enactment.  Stephen Miller , chief of
the  bureau , said in a phone interview that the publication
didn’t mean the law would take effect.  ‘Ministerial Act’  The agency, established to provide bill-drafting and
research services to the Legislature, cited a law requiring it
to publish an act within 10 working days of its approval, and
added a footnote that acknowledged a judge’s March 18 order to
Secretary of State Doug La Follette not to publish the  statute .  “This is a step in the process which is required by state
law,” said Miller, who called it a “a ministerial act.”  The edition of the law printed by his office is then sent
to the secretary of state, whose statutory duty is to publish
notice of it in a newspaper, Miller said.  Walker’s office forwarded a statement yesterday from a
cabinet member saying the law would be put into effect.  “Today, the administration was notified that the LRB
published the budget repair bill as required by law,”
Department of Administration Secretary Mike Huebsch said in that
statement. “The administration will carry out the law as
required.”  The March 18 order preventing publication by La Follette
was issued by Wisconsin Circuit Court Judge Maryann Sumi in
Madison, the  Dane County  seat. The laborers’ lawsuit filed
against Walker yesterday was brought in the same courthouse.  Temporary Order  Dane County District Attorney Ismael Ozanne obtained the
temporary court order after arguing its creators violated the
state’s open meetings law. Ozanne, in a statement issued last
night, said he was “surprised” to learn of the LRB’s action
and said a court should determine its legal significance.  “I believe that, pursuant to Judge Sumi’s order, the
status quo is preserved,” Ozanne said. A hearing on his request
for a preliminary injunction is scheduled for March 29.  Ozanne last night had sought an emergency court hearing
today to address the LRB’s actions, according to a statement
issued by another Dane County court judge, Sarah B. O’Brien,
through the office of state Attorney General J.B.  Van Hollen .  ‘Likely Questions Raised’  “There will likely be questions raised in the underlying
lawsuit about the significance of the ‘publication’ by the
Legislative Research Bureau in light of the existence of the
restraining order issued by Judge Sumi,” said O’Brien, the
court’s designated on-call emergency judge yesterday.  “I am not taking any position on whether the LRB has
effectively ‘published’ the act,” she said. “What ever the
significance of it may be, the LRB acted today by putting the
bill on its website. The bell cannot be ‘unrung.’”  O’Brien declined to convene an emergency hearing, deferring
to the scheduled March 29 event before Sumi.  A Madison lawyer said the publication may present a legal
opening for the governor.  “Nobody really knows what this means but it appears that
it is at least arguable that the law is now in effect,” said
Robert J. Dreps, a member of the political law practice group at
Godfrey & Kahn SC in Madison. “The other side will argue that
the court has to decide if this was a valid publication.”  ‘Unnecessary Conflict’  Bill Cosh, a spokesman for the Republican Van Hollen, said
the  Department of Justice  “will evaluate how the lawful
publication of Act 10 affects pending litigation.” Cosh
declined to comment on the unions’ lawsuit.  The firefighters union said in its complaint that the law’s
exemption for firefighters and police officers creates
“unnecessary conflict among the employees and divisions within
and among public sector labor organizations.”  Cullen Werwie, a spokesman for Walker, didn’t return a
phone message seeking comment on the complaint.  Van Hollen asked a state appeals court to override Sumi’s
temporary restraining order. On March 24, a three-judge appeals
court panel referred the issue to the state’s  Supreme Court ,
which hasn’t said whether it will take the case.  The union case is Laborers Local 236, AFL-CIO v. State of
Wisconsin, 11cv1421, Dane County, Wisconsin, Circuit Court
(Madison).  The prosecutor’s case is State of Wisconsin Ex Rel. Ozanne
v. Fitzgerald, 11cv1244, Dane County, Wisconsin, Circuit Court
(Madison). The appellate case is Ozanne v. Fitzgerald,
2011AP613-LV, Wisconsin Court of Appeals, District 4 (Madison).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  