-- 
Zapatero Says Spain Needs to Accelerate Its Economic Revamp

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-03-26T16:37:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-26/zapatero-says-spain-needs-to-accelerate-its-economic-revamp-1-.html
Spain  must be alert and focus on
completing economic changes and creating a more flexible labor
system to be more competitive, Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said.  “We cannot lower our guard” even as the economy
stabilizes, he said today at a news conference in  Madrid  after
meeting with 41 executives from Spain’s biggest companies. “We
still have a great task ahead, which is to consolidate and
strengthen economic growth in order to create jobs.”  Zapatero met the executives and the chairman of employers’
association CEOE to discuss economic and labor measures carried
out by the government in the last few months. He plans another
such meeting in three months.  “We also need a more flexible labor system to boost
economic and business competitiveness,” Zapatero said, adding
that a deal on collective bargaining should be reached in April.  The government will continue to work on its  energy policy ,
he said, focusing on cost cuts and reducing the so-called tariff
deficit -- the difference between what consumers pay for
electricity and the cost of producing it -- in the medium term.  “Energy costs can’t continue to increase,” Zapatero said.
“We need to make them cheaper.”  Exports, Education  Spain also needs to boost its exports and be more
international, Zapatero said. “We need to consolidate this
recovery” he said, referring to export growth.  Zapatero said he reached an agreement with the country’s
biggest companies to better educate young people as a means to
create jobs. He asked business leaders to set up a program of at
least 30,000 grants for which  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s Chairman Cesar Alierta will coordinate a working group with the  Finance
Ministry .  The program aims for young people to have internships in
companies for at least six months. Santander SA’s Chairman
 Emilio Botin  has guaranteed 2,000 grants within the context of
the program, Zapatero said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  