-- A Terrible, Horrible, No-Good Senate Confirmation Process
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2012-11-19T23:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/a-terrible-horrible-no-good-senate-confirmation-process.html
The U.S. Senate confirmation process
is badly broken. In fact it is a disgrace. It needs to be fixed.
There is no time like the present.  To appreciate the problem, let’s begin with an example. It
is September 2010. The universally respected and admired Jack Lew, nominated by President  Barack Obama  in July for the crucial
position of director of the Office of Management and Budget,
can’t get a floor vote for Senate confirmation. The reason?
Louisiana Senator  Mary Landrieu , a Democrat, has placed a
“hold” on his nomination -- the equivalent of a filibuster,
preventing a vote unless the Senate can muster a two-thirds
majority (and schedule plenty of time for debate).  Landrieu has no questions about Lew’s character or
qualifications. On the contrary, she doesn’t have a single
negative word to say about either. Her  objection  is that in
April, after the  oil spill  in the  Gulf of Mexico , the Obama
administration imposed a temporary moratorium on offshore
drilling. As everyone knows, the director of the Office of
Management and Budget didn’t make that decision, and the
director would have no power to unmake it.  For several long months, a crucial position in the
president’s Cabinet isn’t filled. Landrieu finally  lifts  her
hold on Nov. 18, when she becomes satisfied that the Obama
administration has gotten rid of the moratorium. Landrieu
explains, “I figured it would get their attention and I think
it has.”  Blocked Candidates  When Landrieu (a Democrat, no less) blocked Lew’s
appointment, she was playing within the rules. Republican
senators have used the same rules to do far worse. They required
a cloture vote to overcome their opposition to  Robert Groves , a
superb nominee who eventually served with distinction as
director of the U.S. Census Bureau.  They were able to prevent a floor vote for  Donald Berwick ,
the immensely qualified nominee to lead the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services. (Obama had to give Berwick a recess
appointment, and he was able to serve for only an abbreviated
period.) They succeeded in blocking confirmation of  Peter Diamond , the Nobel-winning economist, nominated to serve on the
Federal Reserve Board.  The largest problem is the broad pattern, not individual
cases. Republican senators have  subjected  numerous Obama
nominees to lengthy delays (disclosure: I was among them), and
they have prevented some of those appointees from being
confirmed, even though they had no reasonable basis for doing
so. The structural problem seems to be getting worse, and it
isn’t the product of one party: Under Republican presidents,
Democratic senators have sometimes been far too aggressive as
well.  An unfortunate consequence of Senate obstructionism is that
important offices can remain unfilled for long periods. An
entire presidential term is just four years, and many high-level
appointees end up serving for less than that. If the Senate
 delays  confirmation for six months or more, a significant chunk
of an appointee’s total time in office is lost.  The confirmation process also has a damaging effect on the
president’s thinking. His question can’t only be, “Who would be
the best person for the job?” It must also be, “In light of
the ugliness and stupidity of the confirmation process, who is
going to get through?”  Nor can we ignore the  deterrent  effect of the confirmation
process on honorable and highly qualified people. They might
view the prospect of a presidential nomination as an honor and
privilege, but too nightmarish and battering to try to get
through.  Legitimate Scrutiny  Both Republicans and Democrats have contended that because
federal judges have life tenure, and don’t work for the
president, it is legitimate for the Senate to give careful
scrutiny to judicial nominees. Fair enough (though even for
selection of judges, the line should be maintained between
scrutiny and recalcitrance).  For executive branch officials, the assessment must be
different. Those officials work for the president. Within broad
limits, the president, whether Republican or Democratic, is
entitled to select his own staff. So long as the president’s
choices meet basic standards of character and competence, the
Senate should be reluctant to stall or stop them -- much less to
use the confirmation process to extort presidential favors or
changes in policy.  The Senate should take three steps to remedy the situation.  First, it should reduce the intensity of its scrutiny. To
that end, Democrats and  Republicans  should agree to adopt a
strong presumption (rebuttable, but strong) in favor of
confirming executive branch nominees.  Second, the Senate should amend its rules to forbid a
single senator, or a small group, from placing a hold on a
nominee to an executive branch position.  Third, the Senate should ensure that every executive branch
nominee is given a prompt up-or-down vote, probably within two
months of the nomination date (with an  exception  for
extraordinary cases involving genuinely serious issues that
require longer periods).  Starting from scratch, no sane person could propose the
current confirmation process, which is a parody of the
constitutional design. The problem, of course, is that when the
president is a Republican, Democratic senators have  no short-
term incentive  to fix it. The same is true for Republican
senators when the president is a Democrat. Sometimes it’s hard
to solve long-term problems, and sometimes it’s really easy.
With respect to the confirmation process, we need a sensible,
not-so-grand bargain, and we need it now.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Felix Frankfurter professor of law
at  Harvard University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and the
author of “Simpler: The Future of Government,” to be published
in 2013. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  how California voting reforms
hint at wiser politics  and on  how to achieve a Hamas-Israel
cease-fire ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  Hamas-Israel fighting ; William
Pesek on  Christine Lagarde ’s  giving short shrift to Asia ;  Ramesh
Ponnuru  on  Republicans’ leverage in fiscal-cliff negotiations ;
Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers  on the  forecasting prowess
of crowds ;  Megan Greene  on why  the euro is sunk  if German
intransigence continues.  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 