-- Labor Board to Rule on Wal-Mart UFCW Complaint Quickly
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-11-20T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/labor-board-to-rule-on-wal-mart-ufcw-complaint-quickly.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s charge that
workers at some of its stores are engaging in unfair labor
practices may be answered by the  National Labor Relations Board 
as soon as today.  The complaint, filed Nov. 16 against the United Food and
Commercial Workers International Union, takes priority over
other business,  Nancy Cleeland , a labor board spokeswoman, said
in an interview. The agency has a target of responding to such
requests within 72 hours.  “By law, under the  National Labor Relations Act , this kind
of charge has to take priority over every other thing we have
going on,” Cleeland said yesterday in an interview. “We are
putting extra resources into this and trying to come to a
decision as quickly as possible.”  Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart accused the union of
violating federal  labor laws  by inappropriately picketing,
demonstrating, trespassing on company property and intimidating
customers and employees -- or making threats to do those things.
The union has tried to force Wal-Mart to the bargaining table
even though it doesn’t officially represent employees,
according to Wal-Mart’s filing. The retailer asked the board for
an investigation and immediate injunction.  “We are pleased the NLRB has made this a top priority,”
Wal-Mart spokesman Randy Hargrove said in an e-mail. “Our focus
remains on Black Friday and providing our customers with a great
experience, great items and unbelievable prices.”  ‘Black Friday’  The union, representing more than 1.3 million workers in
grocery and retail stores and the meatpacking industry, said
Wal-Mart workers began walking off the job Nov. 14 at stores and
warehouses in California. The strikes are the first of what the
group said are 1,000 protests planned in Chicago,  Dallas , Miami,
Oklahoma, Louisiana,  Milwaukee ,  Los Angeles , Minnesota and
Washington ahead of “Black Friday” on Nov. 23, the day after
the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday and traditionally a major shopping
day.  Jill Cashen, a UFCW spokeswoman, said the union welcomes
the expedited consideration by the labor board.  “We feel confident that the board will deny Wal-Mart’s
request to silence the UFCW and our allies,” she said in a
phone interview.  Labor board attorneys have interviewed officials at Wal-
Mart headquarters and seeking to speak to union officials named
in the complaint. A decision on the company’s request for an
injunction to stop the protests will be made by the board
general counsel’s office, Cleeland said.  If the board rules in Wal-Mart’s favor, it must seek an
injunction in district court.  Workers are protesting what the union said was Wal-Mart’s
manipulation of hours and benefits, efforts to keep people from
working full time and discrimination against women and
minorities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  