-- Ads by 19 Mortgage-Related Companies Probed by Regulators
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-11-19T20:23:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/ads-by-19-mortgage-related-companies-probed-by-regulators.html
U.S. regulators are investigating
19 mortgage-related companies over potentially misleading
advertisements, including some that used  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s
website, the agencies announced today.  “Misrepresentations in mortgage products can deprive
consumers of important information while making one of the
biggest financial decisions of their lives,”  Richard Cordray ,
the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau director, said in an e-
mailed statement announcing the probes. “Baiting consumers with
false ads to buy into mortgage products would be illegal.”  The consumer bureau said in the statement it had opened
investigations into six companies. The Federal Trade Commission,
the other agency involved in the probes is looking at 13 firms,
Thomas Pahl, the FTC’s assistant director in the division of
financial practices, told reporters on a conference call.  Neither agency released the names of the companies.  The CFPB and the FTC also announced they had sent warning
letters to 32 mortgage-related companies that the agencies said
may be violating the Mortgage Acts and Practices Advertising
Rule. Of the 32 letters, 12 came from the CFPB and went to
mortgage lenders and brokers, the agency said.  The rule, which was approved by the FTC in 2011 and is
jointly enforced by both agencies, does not apply to traditional
depositories, so today’s actions affect only non-banks.  The agencies’ warning letters from the agencies urge the
companies to review the rule to assess compliance, and do not
accuse them of legal wrongdoing.  Preventive Measure  Since the housing bubble burst, mortgage advertising has
been down and may rise in the future, Pahl said.  “One of the things we wanted to do through conducting this
sweep was to make sure that when mortgage advertisers start
disseminating claims again, that they are aware of their
obligations to make sure that none of those ads contain
deceptive claims,” Pahl said.  The actions grew out of a joint review of about 800
randomly selected mortgage-related advertisements that appeared
in newspapers, on the Internet and in direct mail and e-mail,
Pahl said. The Internet ads included ones on Facebook, he said.  Some were provided by state attorneys general including
 Kamala Harris  of  California  and Lisa Madigan of  Illinois , Kent Markus, the CFPB’s enforcement director, told reporters.  The CFPB focused its review on mortgage advertisements,
particularly ones targeting older Americans or veterans,
according to the agency’s statement. The FTC looked at ads by
home builders, real estate agents and lead generators, services
that collect consumers’ information and sell it to service
providers.  Potential Violations  The review turned up four potentially illegal practices,
according to CFPB. Some ads contained seals that appeared to
imply a government affiliation, while others promoted
potentially misleadingly low  interest rates . Some understated
the costs of reverse mortgages, and others may have
misrepresented the amount of cash available to consumers by for
example, including a mock check.  Markus said the dividing line between warning letter and
enforcement action depended on the severity of the potential
violation. A “clearly false” statement brought an
investigation, while something that might be technically true
would prompt a warning letter, Markus said.  “It’s not a technical reading of the ad,” Pahl told
reporters. “It’s as if an average person is reading the ad.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Maura Reynolds 
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  