-- Maersk Expects Rise in Trans-Pacific Container Rates Next Month
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-11-19T04:05:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/maersk-expects-rise-in-trans-pacific-container-rates-next-month.html
Maersk Line , the world’s biggest
operator of  container ships , expects rates to rise on trans-
Pacific routes next month because of an industrywide push and a
recovering U.S. housing market.  “We are optimistic that we will get something,” Thomas Knudsen, head of Maersk Line’s Asia Pacific operations, said in
an interview today in  Singapore . He declined to comment on how
big the potential increase may be.  The A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S unit and other container lines
have agreed to seek a $400 per 40-foot box increase in Asia-U.S.
west coast fees next month as they lay the groundwork for
upcoming annual contract negotiations. A pickup in homebuilding
is also boosting volumes, helping lines counter declines of more
than 10 percent in Asia- Europe  cargos, Knudsen said.  Maersk, based in Copenhagen, said Oct. 12 that it will
remove 19 ships from Asia-Europe routes in a bid to revive rates.
The cut brings its total 2012 capacity reduction on the sector
to 21 percent. Hanjin Shipping Co., Cosco Container Lines Co.
and other lines have also cut services for the traditionally
slower end of the year.  The cuts mean that Maersk may able to get some rate
increases on Asia-Europe routes ahead of the Chinese New Year,
which falls in February, Knudsen said.  “The initial indications are looking significantly better
than they were last year,” he said. “We are quite optimistic
about the contracting season.”  Falling Rates  Asia-Europe rates have slumped 35 percent since the end of
June to $1,225 per 20-foot box last week, according to the
Shanghai Shipping Exchange. RS Platou sees cash break-even at
between $1,250 and $1,350. Spot rates for cargo hauled to the
U.S. west coast have fallen 13 percent to $2,224 per 40-foot box.  Trans-Pacific ships are fuller than those traveling to
Europe, Knudsen said. Still, on both lanes utilization rates are
“not super,” he said.  Maersk expects a marginal increase in full-year trans-
Pacific volumes this year, compared with a decline on Asia-
Europe routes.  The Transpacific Stabilization Agreement, a group for
container lines operating on Asia-U.S. routes, has set a
 guideline  to raise rates by $800 a box in annual contracts that
takes effect around May 1. The group has limited antitrust
protection.  Confidence among homebuilders, as  measured  by the National
Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index, held at 41 in
November, the highest since June 2006, data today may show,
according to a Bloomberg survey. Readings lower than 50 mean
more respondents still said conditions were poor.  Maersk Line  reiterated this month that it expects a
“modest” profit in 2012. It cut its estimate for global
container demand growth to 3 percent compared with a 4 percent
prediction made in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  