-- Agrium Investor Jana Chooses Nominees Ahead of Proxy Fight
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-11-19T21:08:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/agrium-investor-jana-chooses-board-nominees-ahead-of-proxy-fight.html
Jana Partners LLC, the hedge fund
pressing  Agrium Inc. (AGU)  to spin off its farm-supply retail network,
raised its stake to more than 6 percent and chose five nominees
in preparation for a fight to dislodge the current board.  The nominees include Jana Managing Partner Barry Rosenstein, David Bullock, a former chief financial officer of
Graham Packaging Inc., and Stephen Clark, the former chief
executive officer of German chemicals distributor  Brenntag AG (BNR) ,
the fund said today in a statement. The other two nominees are
Mitchell Jacobson, chairman of MSC Industrial Direct Co., and
Lyle Vanclief, a former Canadian minister of agriculture.  Jana, Agrium’s largest  shareholder , is proposing a tax-free
separation of the Calgary-based company’s network of farm-supply
outlets from its wholesale fertilizer arm. The New York-based
activist fund also has urged Agrium to boost capital returns,
improve disclosure and reduce costs and working capital,
Rosenstein said Oct. 1 in an investor presentation. A spinoff of
the retail arm and other changes may add $50 to Agrium’s share
price, Rosenstein said in the presentation.  Agrium CEO Mike Wilson has resisted Jana’s spinoff
proposal, saying that retaining the company’s structure and
strategy would be best for shareholders.  “Agrium’s shareholders have overwhelmingly rejected Jana’s
ideas,” Wilson said in a  statement  today. “As we have made
clear, the breakup of Agrium will destroy value rather than
create it.”  Store Sales  Agrium’s board evaluated Jana’s ideas with an independent
financial adviser for two months and held discussions with
analysts and shareholders, which led to the conclusion to
support the company’s current strategy, Wilson said in the
statement.  Agrium  rose  3.3 percent to C$101.01 at the close in
Toronto.  Wilson said Nov. 7 that Agrium has improved its financial
transparency, elaborating on data showing returns on operating
capital and profit margins. The company also has pledged to
report same-store sales twice a year, in the second and fourth
quarters.  “Agrium’s future is in the hands of its shareholders,”
Rosenstein said in today’s statement. “We believe they will
overwhelmingly support change to realize Agrium’s true value.”  Jana oversees about $3.5 billion in investments and
commitments and has proposed similar spinoff plans to McGraw-
Hill Cos. and  Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC)  Jana had a 4.9 percent
stake in Agrium at the end of the third quarter, according to a
Nov. 14 filing.  As well as selling seeds, fertilizer and herbicides to
farmers, Agrium produces crop nutrients such as ammonia, potash
and phosphorus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  