-- AIG Opts Against Contesting Systemic-Risk Designation
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-11-19T21:44:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/aig-opts-against-contesting-systemic-risk-designation.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the first non-bank to disclose it’s under consideration to be
labeled a potential risk to the financial system, said it won’t
contest such a designation, which could lead to tighter capital
rules.  “In fact, we welcome supervision by the Federal Reserve,”
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  said in a Nov. 1 letter
to the office of the Financial Stability Oversight Council.  Federal regulators are evaluating which non-banks should be
subject to additional oversight as systemically important
financial institutions to prevent a repeat of the bailouts that
were undertaken in 2008 to stabilize the economy. Benmosche has
 scaled back  risk and sought to assure investors, clients and
regulators that AIG is better able to weather a downturn.  “AIG today is remarkably smaller in size, far less
complex, and operates with a markedly improved risk profile
compared to 2008,” Benmosche said in the letter. “We have had
extraordinary success in de-risking our business.”  AIG received a rescue in 2008 that swelled to $182.3
billion to prevent the firm from collapsing amid the financial
crisis. The New York-based insurer is still 16 percent  owned  by
the U.S., which has recouped the cost of the bailout. Jim Ankner, a spokesman for the insurer, declined to comment.  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the second-largest U.S. life
insurer, and General Electric Co.’s finance arm are also under
review to be designated systemically important. The oversight
council can still consider other companies.  MetLife, Prudential  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer, is already
regulated by the Fed because it owns a deposit-taking
institution. It’s seeking to exit banking to end the oversight,
and could be named a non-bank SIFI after exiting the industry.
Neither MetLife nor Prudential received funds from the
Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program.  Benmosche said in the letter that oversight should be
tailored to insurance companies and take account of state
regulation of insurers that’s already in place. It’s not clear
what capital requirements the Fed may impose, David Herzog,
AIG’s chief financial officer, said on a Nov. 2 conference call.  Prudential is having “really constructive dialogue with
our regulators around the significant differences between
insurance and banks,” CFO Richard Carbone said on a Nov. 8
conference call with analysts. “Unfortunately, we can’t predict
the outcome on the regulatory front, particularly around the
nonbank SIFI impact.”  The oversight council was created in the aftermath of the
crisis under the Dodd-Frank law and evaluates leverage and
derivative liabilities of firms with more than $50 billion in
assets. Bank holding companies with more than $50 billion in
assets -- including Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Wells Fargo & Co. and
Citigroup Inc. -- are automatically subject to heightened Fed
supervision under Dodd-Frank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomebrg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  