-- Thailand Growth Slows as Weak Overseas Demand Hurts Exports
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2012-11-19T03:52:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/thailand-s-growth-slows-as-weak-overseas-demand-hurts-exports.html
Thailand ’s growth slowed in the
third quarter as cooling global demand hurt the nation’s exports,
even as signs of a recovery in  China  and the U.S. signal the
economy may have bottomed.  Gross domestic product increased 3 percent in the three
months through September from a year earlier, after expanding a
revised 4.4 percent in the previous quarter, the National
Economic and Social Development Board said in Bangkok today. The
median of 13 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was 3 percent.  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra extended fuel subsidies
and introduced wage increases after last year’s floods to spur
domestic demand and offset falling exports. The central bank
unexpectedly cut its  benchmark rate  last month as “insurance”
against uncertainties, even as some policy makers in the region
signal growing confidence about growth prospects next year.  “We’re pretty upbeat on Thailand for 2013,” Matthew Circosta, an economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “We’ve got these government
subsidies and policies which are boosting household incomes, and
that will certainly support private consumption,” he said,
adding that an improving global economy will also help lift Thai
exports next year.  The  Thai baht  rose 0.1 percent against the  U.S. dollar  as
of 10:16 a.m. in Bangkok. It was one of the top gainers last
quarter among the 11 most-traded Asian currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The benchmark Stock Exchange of Thailand Index gained
0.2 percent.  Local Demand  Southeast Asia’s growth will remain resilient over the next
five years as stronger investment and private consumption reduce
dependence on exports for expansion, the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development said in a report yesterday.
Expansion in most Asian economies will probably rebound in 2013,
Asian Development Bank President Haruhiko Kuroda said last week.  Thailand today said the economy will grow 5.5 percent this
year, compared to an earlier prediction of 5.5 percent to 6
percent. The agency forecast GDP will increase 4.5 percent to
5.5 percent in 2013, and  inflation  will average 2.5 percent to
3.5 percent, compared with 3 percent this year.  “We expect local demand to grow at a satisfactory level
next year,” Arkhom Termpittayapaisith, secretary-general of the
state planning agency, said at a media briefing today. “We need
to focus on boosting exports.”  Exports may grow 5.5 percent this year and 12.2 percent
next year, the agency forecast today.  Minimum Wages  Yingluck’s government raised minimum wages nationwide in
April and announced another round of increases from the
beginning of 2013. More than 2 trillion baht ($65 billion) in
investments in infrastructure and water-management projects is
planned over the next seven years to boost growth and prevent a
repeat of last year’s flood disaster, which killed more than 700
people and cost the economy an estimated 1.4 trillion baht.  The central bank last month lowered its GDP forecast for
next year to 4.6 percent from 5 percent, while maintaining its
prediction for this year at 5.7 percent. Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said the unexpected cut is not a signal that
 interest rates  are on a downward trend and that monetary policy
space should be used “wisely” because of uncertainties ahead.  “We do think the Bank of Thailand will reverse its recent
rate cuts in 2013,” Circosta said. “Particularly from mid-2013
onwards, when the global economy starts to look a bit clearer
and the inflation picture starts to get a bit more worrying.”  Thailand’s  overseas shipments  unexpectedly climbed for the
first time in four months in September, and the government said
it expects export growth to accelerate in the last three months.  Nissan Motor Co.,  Japan ’s second-largest carmaker, this
month announced a plan to invest 11 billion baht to build a
second factory, while Toyota Motor Corp. said it expects sales
in Thailand to increase 72 percent this year to a record.  Thailand’s economy, the biggest in  Southeast Asia  after
 Indonesia , grew 1.2 percent last quarter from three months
earlier, compared with a revised 2.8 percent increase in the
previous period. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
was for a 0.3 percent decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  