-- AIP Buys Hampson Industries' U.S. Units Under Insolvency
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-11-19T19:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/aip-buys-hampson-industries-u-s-units-under-insolvency.html
U.S. private-equity firm American
Industrial Partners acquired the U.S. operation of  Hampson
Industries Plc (HAMP) , a maker of tooling and components for  Boeing Co. (BA) 
and Airbus SAS airliners, as a search continues for a buyer of
the insolvent company’s Indian operation.  “The group’s Indian subsidiary, Hampson Industries Private
Ltd., continues to trade on a solvent basis under the control of
its directors. It is expected that this business will be
marketed for sale,” newly appointed administrator FTI
Consulting said in statement. The price AIP is paying for the
U.S. operation wasn’t disclosed.  Hampson has been trying to sell units in the U.S.,  India 
and the U.K. to cut about 57 million pounds ($90 million) in
debt. On Nov. 16, the company agreed to sell BHW (Components)
Ltd., based in Wigan,  England , to investor group LNB UK Ltd. for
2.37 million pounds, according to a statement.  “The sale of the U.S. businesses to AIP concludes a
prolonged period of uncertainty and provides a stable platform
for the profitable U.S. operations to move forward,”
administrator Simon Ian Kirkhope said in a statement. Kirkhope
and Chad Griffin, also of FTI, were named Hampson’s joint
administrators today, the manufacturer said.  “The administration is not expected to result in there
being any value remaining for the company’s shareholders,” said
Hampson, based in Brierley Hill, England.  Hampson lost 13 million pounds last year on sales of 197
million pounds. The company warned in February that this year’s
financial performance may be affected by delays in its largest
tooling order.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  