-- Alpiq May Fire 12 Traders in Nordic Power Exit to Cut Debt
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-11-19T14:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/alpiq-may-fire-12-traders-in-exit-from-nordic-electricity-market.html
Alpiq Holding AG (ALPH) , Switzerland’s
biggest utility, may fire 12 Nordic power traders as it plans to
pull out of the region after more than a decade to cut debt.  Alpiq may close its Oslo-based subsidiary, which has been
for sale since last year, and dismiss 25 people, Frode Berntsen,
managing director, said today by phone from Oslo. They include
the traders who buy and sell electricity on behalf of clients,
he said.  Alpiq is cutting staff and plans to sell assets to reduce
costs and debt after forecasting earnings this year would be
“significantly lower” than in 2011, according to its Nov. 12
earnings statement. The Norwegian division had its fourth
consecutive annual loss last year, of 17 million kroner ($3
million), according to  data  from the country’s Broennoeysund
business registry.  “Difficult market conditions, dropping power prices and a
bid to cut debt has prompted us to start preparations to
withdraw from  Norway , while instead focusing on Switzerland and
neighboring countries,” Martin Stutz, a company spokesman, said
today by phone from Olten, Switzerland.  The company’s net debt rose more than five fold to 4.7
billion francs ($4.98 billion) since 2006, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Alpiq has 4.2 billion francs of bonds
outstanding, including 400 million francs on notes  maturing in
2013 , according to the data. The extra yield investors demand to
hold Alpiq’s 3 percent bonds due 2022 instead of Swiss
government debt has increased to 164 basis points today, the
most in 2 1/2 months, the data show. The yield spread was as
narrow as 145 basis points on Aug. 24.  Five-Year Low  Norway no longer fits into Alpiq’s business structure,
which operates power stations in Switzerland,  Italy ,  Germany ,
 France ,  Hungary , Spain and the Czech Republic, Stutz said.  The year-to-date average price for Nordic day-ahead power
has declined 38 percent from the same period last year to a
five-year low of 29.97 euros ($38.27) a megawatt-hour, according
to data from the exchange.  Business activities in Oslo are headed for a profit this
year, according to the company.  “In Norway, our power portfolio management has gone very
well in the past year, with good profitability and a bright
outlook for the future, which makes the timing of this decision
very bad for us, though we must respect what our owners
decide,” Berntsen said.  Stake Sale  Alpiq Norway manages more than 5 terawatt-hours of power
portfolios for third parties, mainly larger industrial
customers, according to its  website . Alpiq Holding sold its
Finnish power portfolio management company Energiakolmio Oy in
March.  In September, the company announced plans to sell a 61
percent stake in Swiss electricity supplier Societa Elettrica
Sopracenerina while it completed its withdrawal from the Italian
retail sector in July. Alpiq said in January it would cut 170
positions affecting the energy-trading division and support
functions.  The company is considering additional divestments, which
may include two coal-fired power plants in the Czech Republic,
it said on Nov. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  