-- Mammoth Lakes Bankruptcy Case Ends After Accord in Suit
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-11-19T21:12:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/mammoth-lakes-bankruptcy-case-ends-after-accord-in-suit.html
Mammoth Lakes, the  California 
mountain resort town, won dismissal of its bankruptcy case after
settling the $43 million development lawsuit that forced the
city to seek court protection from its creditors.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas Holman in Sacramento today
signed an order ending the case about four months after the town
became the second of three in California to file bankruptcy this
year.  Community leaders put the town into bankruptcy in July
after being ordered by a state court to pay $43 million to its
biggest creditor, Mammoth Lakes Land Acquisition. The town
announced a settlement with the company the following month, and
in September it asked Holman to dismiss the case.  The settlement allows Mammoth Lakes “to resolve numerous
significant creditor issues and will provide for the town’s
prompt exit from bankruptcy,” the city said in court papers
filed in September.  Details of the accord weren’t filed in the bankruptcy case.
Ending it voluntarily allows the city to avoid paying lawyers
and financial advisers to develop and win court approval of a
plan to adjust its debts.  Mammoth Lakes, a ski resort community of 8,200 near
Yosemite National Park, has an annual budget of $19 million. It
entered bankruptcy saying it couldn’t afford to pay the
developer.  The company sued the town in 2006 and accused it of
breaching a development agreement allowing the company to build
homes, retail space, hangars and other structural improvements
near the Mammoth Yosemite Airport. Terrence Ballas, who holds
the development rights at issue in the lawsuit, is part of the
settlement, the city said.  The case is In re Town of Mammoth Lakes, 12-32463, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of California ( Sacramento ).  -- Editors: Charles Carter, Peter Blumberg  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 