-- Andreessen Horowitz Hires Angel Investor Chris Dixon as Partner
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-11-19T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/andreessen-horowitz-hires-angel-investor-chris-dixon-as-partner.html
Andreessen Horowitz, the Silicon
Valley venture firm that’s raised $2.7 billion in three years,
hired  Chris Dixon  as a general partner, tapping the expansive
network of a New York angel investor and two-time entrepreneur.  Dixon, 40, who becomes the seventh investing partner at the
firm, said in an interview today that he plans to back mostly
consumer-focused startups. He will be moving from New York to
the Bay Area to work out of the firm’s office in Menlo Park,
 California , though he plans to keep investing in New York.  For Andreessen Horowitz, Dixon brings a wealth of
connections, having invested early in 50 companies, including
Skype Technologies SA, cloud-storage provider Dropbox Inc. and
crowdfunding service Kickstarter Inc. He was also co-founder of
Hunch Inc., which  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  purchased last year. Marc Andreessen, who started the firm with Ben Horowitz, said they’ve
gotten to know Dixon in the past few months as he’s sat in on
partner meetings, deal reviews and company pitches.  “We look for people who, when the next great entrepreneur
enters the room, he looks across the table and says, ‘I want
that person on my board,’” Andreessen said. “We’re highly
inclined towards people who have done it themselves.”  Andreessen Horowitz has sent ripples across Menlo Park’s
Sand Hill Road, home to most of the country’s most prominent
venture firms, by spending heavily on marketing, public
relations and recruiting for itself and portfolio companies.  Netscape, Loudcloud  The co-founders were early executives at Netscape
Communications Corp. and then started Loudcloud Inc. -- later
Opsware Inc. -- which they sold to  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  for $1.6
billion in 2007. Since establishing Andreessen Horowitz, they’ve
hired partners including former OpenTable Inc. and EBay
executive Jeff Jordan, IronPort Systems Inc. co-founder Scott Weiss and former Citrix Systems Inc. executive Peter Levine.  The firm has made large, high-profile bets on companies
such as vacation-rental site Airbnb Inc., collaboration software
provider Box Inc., e-commerce company Fab Inc. and online
bulletin board Pinterest Inc. It’s also made money from the
sales of portfolio companies Skype to Microsoft Corp., Instagram
to Facebook Inc. and Nicira Inc. to  VMware Inc. (VMW)   Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, is an
investor in Andreessen Horowitz.  Dixon’s venture investing career began in 2003 as an
associate at Bessemer Venture Partners. In 2009, while working
at Hunch, he helped start  Founder Collective , a seed-stage
venture fund in New York. He is still an adviser to companies he
invested in, though he’s not doing any more deals with the
group.  Dixon follows prominent angel investors Shervin Pishevar
and Kevin Rose in joining big firms. Pishevar joined Menlo
Ventures last year and Rose, founder of Digg Inc., became a
partner at Google Ventures earlier this year.  A successful angel investor is “somebody who’s proven they
can do it without money,” Andreessen said. “The money is the
easy part. It’s the actual work that’s the hard part.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  