-- Thanks to Einhorn, Robertson, Cohn for Holiday Treats
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-11-19T09:24:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/thanks-to-einhorn-robertson-cohn-for-holiday-treats.html
I asked a few of the people I meet
on my Scene Last Night rounds to name their favorite
Thanksgiving dish. Here’s what they said.  David Einhorn, Greenlight Capital Inc.  “Cranberry sauce -- not from the can, just cranberries and
sugar.”  John Griffin, Blue Ridge Capital LLC  “Anything my wife makes, especially the cranberry sauce --
with oranges.”  Julian Robertson, Tiger Management LLC  “Wild rice.”  Gary Cohn,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   “Oysters -- not shucked by me.”  Mary Pat Christie, wife of New Jersey Governor Chris Christie  “Our favorite dish is stuffing,” says Mary Pat Christie.
“It’s basic, the Pepperidge Farm mix, celery, onions, butter.”  Lee Ainslie, Maverick Capital  “Creamed onions.” (They take five hours to make, his
wife, Elizabeth, says.)  Howard Lutnick, Cantor Fitzgerald  “Sweet potatoes with marshmallows.”  Glenn Dubin, Highbridge Capital Management LLC  “I love turkey. I would love to eat turkey all year round,
because I’m a chicken person. And I like sweet potatoes, but
without the marshmallows.”  Neil deGrasse Tyson, astrophysicist  “Definitely not the turkey. There’s a reason you don’t see
it served at restaurants except diners.”  Sallie Krawcheck, former Bank of America president  “I make a potato kugel -- it’s basically a giant potato
latke. And apple pie. The secret to a great apple pie is the
crust. Do you know what the secret to a great crust is? Vodka.”  Roy Niederhoffer, RG Niederhoffer Capital Management Inc.  “Sweet potatoes, because my late mom made them. For years
she also served carrot cake, until I admitted that I didn’t
actually like it. Everyone around the table agreed, including my
mom. That was our last carrot cake.”  David Hasselhoff, actor  “I miss the dish my mother used to make: it was green
beans, with a layer of marshmallows, and corn flakes on top.”  Mark Teixeira,  New York  Yankees first baseman  “I love sweet potato casserole, with marshmallows and
brown sugar. I can eat it with the turkey, the mashed potatoes
and the stuffing, but then I could just have a bowl of it by
itself as dessert.”  Elie Wiesel, Nobel laureate  “It’s not any particular dish. What’s important is that
the meal is the same year after year.”  Muse highlights include Elin McCoy on  wine , Hephzibah
Anderson on  books .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 