-- Manulife Favors 10-Year as Xi to Prefer Long Game: China Credit
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-11-19T03:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/manulife-favors-10-year-as-xi-to-prefer-long-game-china-credit.html
China’s long-term bonds are rallying
for the first time in four months as a pickup in the economy
gives new leaders scope to shun stimulus in favor of policies
that will result in slower and more sustainable growth.  The  yield  on benchmark 10-year notes fell six basis points
to 3.52 percent in November, after climbing 29 basis points in
the last three months, Chinabond data show. Manulife Asset
Management said it favors notes of at least seven years
duration, while PineBridge Investments and Lion Fund Management
Co. predict yields on debt due 2022 have further to fall.
Similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries  yield  1.60 percent.  Newly-elected Communist Party leader  Xi Jinping  pledged
last week to “carry out reforms” after investment-driven
growth in the last decade enabled China to surpass  Japan  as the
world’s second-largest economy. Xi and  Li Keqiang , set to take
over from Premier  Wen Jiabao  in March, will tolerate slower
growth as they restructure the economy and the days of massive
stimulus are probably over, Barclays Plc economists led by  Huang Yiping  said in a Nov. 15 research note.  “We prefer the longer part of the curve,” said Paula Chan, who helps manage $38 billion of Asian fixed-income assets
at Manulife in  Hong Kong . “Massive stimulus is out of the
window completely. In order for China to become more sustainable
in terms of growth the country has to transform fundamentally.
The theme for the next five years will be reform. Short-term
pain, long-term gain. That’s how I see it.”  Slower Growth  Gross domestic product will increase 7.7 percent this year,
the smallest gain since 1999, and climb 8.1 percent in 2013,
according to the median estimates of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Annual growth averaged 10.6 percent in the last 10
years, official figures show, and was propped up at the height
of the global financial crisis by a 4 trillion  yuan  ($641
billion) government stimulus package.  “The new leaders will place an emphasis on consistency and
continuity in economic policies,” said James Zhou, a bond
manager in Shenzhen at Lion Fund Management. “The economy is
doing fine now and I don’t see the need for a big stimulus like
in 2008,” he said, adding that 10-year yields could fall by
another 10 to 20 basis points by the end of March.  The yield is seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point,
higher than this year’s average of 3.45 percent and 63 basis
points above the rate for China’s one-year government debt,
which yields 2.89 percent. The  gap  between the two maturities,
which tracks the so-called yield curve, narrowed to 58 basis on
Oct. 29, the smallest difference since February.  Interest Rates  The one-year yield surged 63 basis points in the last three
months as policy makers held off from lowering  interest rates 
and banks reserve requirements, even as the economy slowed for a
seventh quarter. Benchmark rates were cut in June and July,
while reserve ratios were lowered in May for the third time in
six months.  The new leaders are likely to focus “more on the quality
than the speed of economic growth,”  Sun Mingchun , chief China
economist at Daiwa Capital Markets, wrote in a Nov. 15 research
report.  He wrote he was more concerned over the need for tighter
policies than many investors, forecasting two interest-rate
increases in the second half of 2013 as economic growth
accelerates to 8.6 percent in the second quarter of 2013 and
 inflation  quickens to 3.7 percent in the July-September period.  Consumer prices increased 1.7 percent from a year earlier
in October, the smallest increase since January 2010, official
figures show. Inflation will average 3 percent this year and 3.8
percent in 2013, Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior strategist and
regional economist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong, forecast
last week.  Seeking Clarity  “The risk of holding long-duration debt is not that
negative” given the pace of consumer-price gains, said Ee Leen Yueh, a Singapore-based fixed-income manager at  Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc (ADN) ,  Scotland ’s largest fund company. “We are
positioned for slightly long durations versus our benchmark. We
will probably maintain it until there’s more clarity on policy
direction.”  Xi was appointed general secretary of the Communist Party
at a congress last week in Beijing and said in his acceptance
speech that he would carry out “reform and opening,” release
production forces, raise incomes, boost social welfare and
improve health provision.  Li, who holds a legal degree and translated a 1980 book on
British law, has championed rapid urbanization and is associated
with the  World Bank ’s “China 2030” report on sustaining income
and productivity gains. Policy makers are seeking to deregulate
interest rates, encourage private enterprise and shift to
consumer-led growth.  Default Swaps  Retail sales in  China  increased 14.1 percent from a year
earlier in the last 10 months, trailing a 20.7 percent advance
in urban fixed-asset investment, official figures show.  China’s leadership changes are doing little to hurt global
perceptions of its creditworthiness. Five-year credit-default
swaps protecting the nation’s sovereign debt reached 62 basis
points this month in  New York , the lowest level since November
2010, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-
Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. That compares with 147 basis points at the
start of the year. It was at 71 basis points at the end of last
week.  The yuan strengthened 0.15 percent last week to 6.2356 per
dollar in  Shanghai , touching a 19-year high of 6.2252 on Nov.
14. It traded little changed at 6.2345 today. The currency will
rise to 6.18 by the end of next year, according to the median
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Ten-year bonds are
offering the lowest yields in a month, Chinabond data show.  “ China’s economy  is slowing and inflation is likely to
stabilize,” said Kazuya Sugiura, the Tokyo-based president of
PineBridge Investments Japan Co., part of PineBridge, which
oversees about $69 billion globally. “It is reasonable for some
investors to extend duration in anticipation of declines in 10-
year yields.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 