-- Maple Leaf Cement to Record Highest Net Profit in Six Years
-- B y   F a s e e h   M a n g i   a n d   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2012-11-20T11:49:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/maple-cement-to-record-highest-profit-in-six-years-saigol-says.html
Maple Leaf Cement Factory Ltd. (MLCF) , the
Pakistani building-material maker with the most debt, may record
the highest profit in six years as prices rise and lower
interest rates reduce loan payments.  Earnings per share may rise to about 3 rupees in the year
ending June 2013, Waleed Tariq Saigol, a member on the company’s
board of directors, said in an interview in Lahore yesterday.
The company’s EPS in the previous 12 months was 0.84 rupee.
Maple, whose shares have risen sevenfold this year, reported an
EPS of 3.38 rupees a share in the year ended June 2006.  Rising cement prices in Pakistan are helping makers of the
material to cope with sluggish sales that fell 1.5 percent to
13.4 million tons in the four months ended Oct. 31, according to
the  All-Pakistan Cement Manufacturers Association . The average
price of a 50-kilogram bag of cement may increase to 440 rupees
by June, after rising 20 percent to 421 rupees in the last
financial year, according to Elixir Securities Ltd. in Karachi.  Maple Leaf plans to reduce its debt to 13 billion rupees
($135 million) in the year ending June, from the 16 billion
rupees it owes to banks for expansion since 2005, Saigol said.
Lower  interest rates  have helped reduce financial charges after
the central bank reduced borrowing costs for a second meeting
last month.  “This year is going to be a good one for Maple,” said
Sateesh Balani, a research analyst at Elixir. “Even a modest
capacity utilization level of 70 percent will help the company
make good earnings on the back of strong cement prices.”  Rising Shares  The company’s  shares  rose as much as 7.7 percent by the
daily limit of one rupee to 14.02 rupees at the close of trade
in Karachi, the highest since June 2008. It was the third-most
traded stock with volume four times the three-month daily
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock has
risen over sevenfold this year compared with a 46 percent
increase in the benchmark KSE100 Index.  “In the last month or so, we have been seeing some
foreign” investors showing interest, said Saigol. “A huge
European  asset management company ” has shown interest, he said,
without giving details.  Domestic cement sales may rise by about 5 percent in the
year ending June as President Asif Ali Zardari’s administration
seeks to boost public spending ahead of general elections
scheduled for early next year, Balani said.  The opening of trade between Pakistan and  India  will
“benefit Maple the most,” Saigol said, since its plant is
located at Mianwali in the Punjab province, 190 miles (306
kilometers) from the border.  If trade with “India really picks, we will have the
greatest advantage,” he said, adding his company can “easily
sell” as much as 60,000 tons of cement a month to its neighbor.  The nuclear-armed neighbors that have fought three wars
since independence in 1947 signed an accord in September to ease
visa restrictions and boost business travel and trade across the
border.  Maple Leaf has the capacity to produce 3.37 million tons of
cement a year, the fifth-biggest after Lucky Cement Ltd., D.G.
Khan Cement Co., Bestway Cement Ltd., and Fauji Cement Co. Maple
has increased its capacity from 1.5 million tons a year in 2005.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Faseeh Mangi in Lahore,  Pakistan  at 
 fmangi@bloomberg.net .
Khurrum Anis in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 Kkhan14@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  