-- Apple, Google, Gevo, Dish, Kixeye: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-11-19T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/apple-google-gevo-dish-kixeye-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. and  Google Inc.’s (GOOG) 
Motorola Mobility unit are talking about a way to resolve part
of their dispute over patents related to critical smartphone
technology, according to a court filing.  The companies have been exchanging proposals on using
binding arbitration to reach a licensing agreement over patents
that are essential to comply with industry standards on how
phones operate. Such an agreement could lead to a global
settlement of all of their patent disputes, Apple said in a Nov.
15 filing.  Motorola Mobility first raised the issue of arbitration on
Nov. 5, before a federal judge in Madison,  Wisconsin , threw out
a breach-of-contract case that Apple had filed. The Cupertino,
California-based maker of the iPhone claimed its mobile-phone
competitor was misusing standard-essential patents to demand
unreasonable royalties.  “We have long sought a path to resolving patent issues and
we welcome the chance to build on the constructive dialogue
between our companies,” Google General Counsel Kent Walker said
in a Nov. 13 letter to Apple that was filed with the court.  Apple, the world’s most valuable company, has argued that
competing handsets running on Google’s Android operating system
copy the look and unique features of its iPhones. A continuing
battle with Samsung Electronics Co., which has the biggest share
of the global market for smartphones, is being waged across the
globe.  Even so, Apple has recently shown a willingness to settle
some of the disputes. It announced a 10-year licensing agreement
with Taiwan’s  HTC Corp. (2498)  on Nov. 10. The company earlier settled
a patent dispute with  Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)   “Apple’s goal has always been to find a mutual and
transparent process to resolve this dispute on terms that are
fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory without the threat or
taint of exclusionary remedies,” Apple General Counsel Bruce
Sewell said in a Nov. 8 letter to Google that was included in
the filing.  Spokeswomen Kristin Huguet of Apple and Niki Fenwick of
Google declined to comment.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  has its own battles with Motorola Mobility
over standard-essential patents, and a non-jury trial is under
way in Seattle. U.S. District Judge James Robart could issue a
ruling establishing a fair rate for the Motorola Mobility
patents. That could lead to an agreement between those two
companies, said Victor Siber, former chief intellectual property
counsel for International Business Machines Corp., and now with
Baker Hostetler in New York.  The cases are:  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Motorola Mobility Inc.,
11cv178, U.S. District Court for the Western District of
Wisconsin (Madison); and Microsoft Corp. v. Motorola Mobility
Inc., 10cv1823, U.S. District Court for the Western District of
Washington.  Gevo Wins Appeals Court Ruling in Butamax Patent Dispute  Butamax Advanced Biofuels LLC, a joint venture of DuPont
Co. and  BP Plc (BP/) , lost an appeals court bid to block Gevo Inc.
from selling some of its biofuels products while a patent-
infringement case is pending.  Gevo has raised “a substantial question of validity” of
the Butamax patent, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal
Circuit said in upholding a judge’s decision not to issue a
court ban. The court did say that U.S. District Judge Sue
Robinson in Wilmington,  Delaware  should reconsider her
interpretation of the patent. The case is part of a broader
dispute between the two companies over genetically engineered
microorganisms used to produce biofuels.  The case is Butamax Advanced Biofuels v.  Gevo Inc. (GEVO) , 12-
1490, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademarks  Dish Files Applications to Register ‘Hopper Transfers’ Marks  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , which is involved in a copyright
infringement case with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Broadcasting unit, has
filed multiple applications to register “Hopper Transfers” as
a trademark.  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and  Trademark
Office , Englewood, Colorado-based Dish filed three applications
Nov. 8 to register the term for use with telecommunications
services, software for streaming video and audio, and digital
video recorders. The Hopper service itself is at issue in a case
in federal court in Los Angeles.  Fox had tried unsuccessfully to block Dish’s ad-free
primetime television service and its so-called AutoHop feature
in advance of resolution of the copyright dispute. The company
is appealing U.S. District Judge Dolly Gee’s Nov. 7 order
denying Fox’s request.  According to the case file, the parties must file their
briefs in that appeal by Dec. 7.  The case is Fox Broadcasting v.  Dish Network , 12-04529,
U.S. District Court, Central District of California ( Los
Angeles ).  World Marketing Seeks Court Order for Surfer’s Deposition  World Marketing Inc., owner of the Visitor, Kahuka Bay and
Poeta Moda brands of  consumer goods , asked a federal court in
San Francisco to order a professional surfer to appear for a
deposition in a trademark case.  QS Wholesale Inc. of Huntington Beach, Florida, filed suit
in federal court in Santa Ana, California, seeking a declaration
that its VSTR brand didn’t infringe World Marketing’s
“Visitor” trademarks.  In its complaint, QS, which manufactures and distributes
clothing under the Quiksilver, Roxy and DS Shoes brands, argued
that the way its VSTR brand name was pronounced involved saying
the name of each letter rather than as “visitor” and that it
didn’t infringe the World Marketing trademark.  World Marketing said that it learned that Robert Kelly
Slater, a professional surfer, is the creator of and spokesman
for the VSTR brand. The company alleged that Slater pronounces
“VSTR” as “visitor,” and seeks testimony from him to that
effect.  Slater hasn’t made himself available to be deposed, World
Marketing said, even though he was served a subpoena and Nov. 14
was scheduled for his deposition.  The surfer didn’t appear at the deposition, World Marketing
said, and he has claimed he can’t appear until January because
he is “preparing full time” for the Association of Surfing
Professionals World Championship Tour.  With a Dec. 21 cutoff date for discovery in the case, World
Marketing argued that it’s essential to have his testimony. The
New York-based company said in its filing that the judge in Los
Angeles has said there is no flexibility in the dates set in the
case.  World Marketing asked the court to compel Slater to appear
for a deposition on or before Dec. 14.  The case is QS Wholesale Inc., v. World Marketing Inc.,
8:12-cv-00451-DOC-RNB, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Santa Ana).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  ‘Simpsons’ Actor Azaria Sues Craig Bierko Over Voice Rights  Hank Azaria, an actor on Fox television’s “The Simpsons,”
sued a fellow actor, Craig Bierko, over the rights to the voice
of a fictional baseball announcer in an Internet comedy program.  Azaria said his character, named Jim Brockmire, appeared in
a video for the Web show “Funny or Die.” He also said his
plans to develop a movie based on the announcer have been
“significantly impeded” by Bierko’s claim to rights, according
to a filing dated Nov. 14 in federal court in Los Angeles.  Bierko, who appeared in the 2012 movie “The Three
Stooges,” also created the voice of an announcer, Azaria said
in the complaint. After the “Funny or Die” video appeared,
Bierko demanded that Azaria stop using the announcer’s voice,
according to the complaint.  “Bierko’s claim has created a cloud over the rightful
ownership of the Azaria voice,” the complaint states. “Would-
be financiers and possible licensees of the asset would have
valid doubts as to who is the proper copyright holder of the Jim
Brockmire character.”  Jill Littman, Bierko’s manager, didn’t immediately respond
to messages seeking comment.  Azaria seeks a judicial declaration that he has the
copyright to the Brockmire character, “which incorporates the
Azaria voice.” He also wants a declaration that no contract
between him and Bierko was ever made.  The complaint states that Azaria created the announcer
voice as early as 1983 and performed with it at his college.
Someone who knew that Bierko also did an announcer voice put the
two men in touch in 1990, according to the court filing. For
several years, each used his own announcer voice in phone
messages to the other, Azaria states.  After the “Funny or Die” video appeared, Bierko claimed
that he had created the voice, according to the complaint.  The Brockmire character in the video has “a penchant for
making obscure and off-the-wall cultural references when
commenting on a baseball game,” according to the complaint.  Azaria, whose movies include “The Birdcage” and
“Godzilla,” is also the voice of Moe the bartender on “The
Simpsons.”  The case is Azaria v. Bierko, 12-09732, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California, Western Division (Los
Angeles).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage.  Kixeye Files Response to Zynga’s Trade Secret Theft Claims  Kixeye , the San Francisco-based games company, filed a
countersuit against  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  in a trade-secrets dispute.  Zynga filed the initial suit Oct. 12 in state court in San
Francisco, claiming its former studio general manager Alan
Patmore took company files with him when he joined Kixeye.  Also located in San Francisco, Zynga claimed the files
contained revenue information, and monetization strategy for its
games, plus design documents for more than 10 unreleased games,
in addition to 14 months of confidential e-mails reserved
exclusively for Zynga’s executive staff.  It alleged that Kixeye, which like Zynga, releases free-to-
play online social games, had “failed to achieve success”
because it lacked Zynga’s know-how. Zynga said that on Patmore’s
final day of employment, he refused to confirm he had returned
company data, and refused to sign a termination certification
document.  In its Nov. 13 cross complaint, Kixeye said there was
nothing Zynga had that it wanted. “Comparing Kixeye’s games to
Zynga’s games is like comparing a Ducati racing motorcycle to a
minivan. Both are motorized vehicles, but Ducati motorcycles,
like Kixeye’s midcore games, appeal to a small but passionate
group of users who are focused on quality and performance,” the
company said in its pleadings.  Kixeye dismissed Zynga’s work as “cranking out games that
will fit the whole family without offending anyone” and claimed
that Zynga is “notorious for copyright and cloning the games of
its competition, often trampling those competitors’  intellectual
property  rights in the process.”  The motivation behind Zynga’s suit, Kixeye claims is to
scare any of its employees that might want to leave and work at
the competitor, and to use the case as a “Trojan Horse” to
gain access to Kixeye’s inner workings and trade secrets.  In its filing, Kixeye asked the court to bar Zynga from
interfering with its right to recruit and hire Zynga employees,
and to prohibit the company from threatening to file or actually
filing suits against its own employees in efforts to dissuade
them from coming to work at Kixeye.  The case is Zynga Inc. v. Alan Patmore, CGC-12-525099,
Superior Court of the State of California (County of San
Francisco).  IP Moves  Zavitsanos Firm Hires Litigator Kyril Talanov for IP Practice  Zavitsanos, Anaipakos, Alavi & Mensing PC  hired Kyril
Talanov for its intellectual property practice group, the
Houston-based firm said in a  statement .  Talanov , a litigator who joins from Chicago’s Winston &
Strawn LLP, has represented clients in IP disputes involving
oilfield drilling and completion tools, smart phones and medical
device technologies.  Before he was a lawyer, Talanov was a process engineer with
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and Black & Veatch in the areas of oil, gas
and petrochemicals, including olefins and aromatics, syngas,
utilities, gas processing and desulfurization, and liquefied
natural gas.  Talanov has an undergraduate degree in chemical engineering
from Texas Tech University and a law degree from the  University
of Houston .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 