-- Apple Shares Gain as Stock Seen Undervalued
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-11-19T22:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/apple-shares-gain-as-stock-seen-undervalued-by-topeka.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  advanced the most in
almost seven months as analysts said a two-month stock slide is
unjustified given brisk demand for the iPhone and iPad.  Shares of Cupertino, California-based Apple rose 7.2
percent to $565.73 at the close in New York.  Apple, which overhauled most of its product lineup ahead of
the  holiday shopping season , has lost about a fifth of its stock
market value since hitting a record on Sept. 19. It  trades  at a
8.4 percent discount to the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index on a
price-to-earnings basis, after being valued at a premium for
most of 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Even amid investor concerns about product shortages,
stiffening smartphone and tablet competition and management
changes, demand for Apple’s products remains strong and the
stock slide is unfounded,  Brian White , an analyst at Topeka
Capital Markets, wrote in a research report today.  “The sell-off in Apple’s stock over the past eight weeks
has gotten to the point of being ‘insanely insane’ given the
depressed valuation, new blockbuster products for the holiday
season, the attractive long-term growth opportunities that lie
ahead and the company’s ability to distribute significant  cash
flow  to investors,” White said.  He recommends buying the
shares and has a 12-month price estimate of $1,111.  Katy Huberty, an analyst at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , also said today
that Apple’s shares are a “discount” because of the recent
drop. Sales of the iPhone 5 and iPad mini are providing a boost,
while sales in China and other  emerging markets  such as Brazil
will sustain the company’s growth longer term, she said.  China Sales  Huberty said recent meetings with Apple’s  suppliers  in Asia
point to better-than-expected iPhone and iPad sales. Analysts
are predicting 46 million iPhones and 23 million iPads to be
sold during the quarter that ends in December, she said.  China
Mobile Ltd. (941) , that country’s largest mobile-phone carrier, also
may add the iPhone by the second half of 2013, Huberty said.  Of 62 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg, only two recommend
selling the shares. The average 12-month target price is
$766.60.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  