-- Arrium Chief Executive Plummer to Step Down by End of 2013
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-11-19T07:02:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/arrium-chief-executive-plummer-to-step-down-by-end-of-next-year.html
Arrium Ltd. (ARI) , which rebuffed a A$1.2
billion ($1.24 billion) takeover offer from a  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL) 
and Posco-led consortium last month, said Geoff Plummer will
step down as chief executive officer by the end of next year.  Plummer agreed to stay until Dec. 31, 2013, if required by
the board, giving enough time “to enable a smooth and measured
leadership transition,” Peter Smedley, chairman of the Sydney-
based steelmaker and iron ore producer, said in a speech today
at a shareholder meeting in Melbourne.  Plummer’s resignation plan came as Arrium, which changed
its name from OneSteel Ltd. in July to reflect its focus on
mining, today kept its full-year iron ore sales target unchanged
at as much as 9 million metric tons, up from 6.3 million tons in
the previous year. His decision to retire has nothing to do with
the rejected takeover bid, Smedley told reporters after the
meeting.  “By end of next year, Geoff Plummer will have been in the
role approaching nine years,” Smedley said. His term “will
conclude with the ramp up of the  iron-ore  expansion, the further
consolidation of the mining consumables business and will also
have seen significant restructuring of the steel and recycling
businesses.”  Arrium  shares  rose 0.7 percent to 72 Australian cents in
Sydney trading as the benchmark  stock index  added 0.6 percent.  Open to Talks  Arrium remains open to any future takeover discussions
should anyone make a fair offer for the company, Smedley said.
Noble- Posco (005490) ’s bid of 88 cents a share undervalued the company,
he reiterated.  Exports of iron ore will increase in the second half from
increased production at its Middleback Ranges and Southern Iron
mines, Arrium said today in a statement. The company sold 1.6
million metric tons of iron ore in the three months ended Sept.
30, down from 1.91 million tons in the previous quarter. Its
average realized price for the quarter was about $83 a ton, $26
lower than in the June quarter.  Arrium is spending A$200 million expanding its port at
Whyalla, with annual capacity expected to be 13 million tons a
year after the expansion, up from the 12 million tons previously
expected, the company reiterated today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in  Melbourne  at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  