-- Rutgers Joins Big Ten to Strengthen Athletics, Academics
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-11-20T20:50:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/maryland-moving-to-big-ten-with-rutgers-expected-next-espn-says.html
Rutgers University  is moving to the
 Big Ten Conference , ending a more than two-decade affiliation
with the Big East as it tries to strengthen its athletic,
financial and academic standing.  One day after the  University of Maryland  said it would join
the Park Ridge, Illinois-based league following a 59-year run as
a charter member of the Atlantic Coast Conference, Rutgers,
based in New Brunswick, New Jersey, further broadened the Big
Ten’s U.S. East Coast footprint by becoming its 14th school.  “It’s a transformative day for  Rutgers University ,”
Athletic Director Tim Pernetti said at a televised news
conference. “The Big Ten is the ultimate academic neighborhood
to live in and we’re now in that neighborhood.”  The Scarlet Knights’ application was unanimously accepted
by the other members of the Big Ten, said Rutgers President
Robert Barchi.  Rutgers, which led U.S. public schools in athletic-
department spending directed from university budgets and student
fees last year, will reap millions more directly from sports
with the new conference affiliation, perhaps allowing the
department to someday become self-sufficient, Barchi said.  Medical School  Having yesterday approved the acquisition of a medical
school as part of a restructuring of the state’s higher
education system, Rutgers now is joining a highly regarded
research consortium consisting mostly of Big Ten universities.  While  Maryland  announced plans to join the Big Ten on July
1, 2014, “In the case of Rutgers it’s less clear,” said James Delany, the Big Ten commissioner.  The school will work with the  Big East  to negotiate a
suitable exit strategy, Pernetti said. Pittsburgh and Syracuse,
which are moving to the ACC from the Big East, agreed to $7.5
million departure fees in July.  Rutgers beat Princeton 6-4 in the first intercollegiate
football game in 1869, and defeated  Boston College  in the first
Big East football game in 1991. It became a conference member
for all sports in 1995.  In the Big Ten, it will join Illinois,  Indiana ,  Iowa ,
Maryland, Michigan, Michigan State,  Minnesota ,  Nebraska ,
Northwestern, Ohio State,  Penn State , Purdue and  Wisconsin .  The conference, with a television network that reaches 73
million cable and satellite subscribers, paid its schools $24.6
million last year, according to the Washington Post. Big East
schools took in $6 million, according to the Star-Ledger of
 Newark , New Jersey.  Eastern Branch  The Big Ten also will renegotiate its television contract
in 2017, which probably will further raise the value of the
deal. With Penn State reaching the Philadelphia market, adding
Rutgers and Maryland gives the conference a presence from  New
York  to Washington, D.C.  Rutgers funneled $28.5 million from its university budget
and student fees into sports for the fiscal year that ended in
June 2011, the most among 54 U.S. public universities in the
biggest football conferences, based on data compiled by
Bloomberg. It was at least the second straight year that Rutgers
led the list.  “Do I anticipate that this new agreement with the Big Ten
will allow us to completely eliminate that subsidy, I wouldn’t
be surprised,” Barchi said. “We’re talking about quite a few
years from now as that fully materializes itself as we work
through the transition time frame.”  Spending Cuts  Pernetti reduced athletic-department spending by $4
million, or 6.3 percent, in fiscal 2011. Still, the school’s
faculty council voted in March to demand cuts of $5 million in
university funding of athletics by fiscal 2016.  “I’ve never made it a secret to you guys when I got here
that were going to fix the finances of athletics and become a
self-sufficient operation,” Pernetti said. “This puts us on a
faster track toward doing that.”  The conference move already has helped the Scarlet Knights’
ticket sales, with “hundreds of new deposits on football season
tickets for next year,” Pernetti said he was told.  “The minute the speculation started to reach a fever
pitch, we started to see it,” he said. “The poor people in the
ticket office right now are probably the hardest-working people
in the athletic department.”  Rutgers’s boards of governors and trustees voted yesterday
to merge with the University of Medicine and Dentistry of  New
Jersey . With entry to the Big Ten, Rutgers will also gain access
to the  Committee on Institutional Cooperation , a consortium of
Big Ten schools and the  University of Chicago  that collaborates
in research initiatives.  Await Invitation  Rutgers is hopeful of an official invitation to join the
CIC as has been expressed during negotiations, Barchi said.  “What it means is opportunities for increased research and
collaborations between the institutions,” he said. “There are
huge advantages on the research side.”  Rutgers’s exit from the Big East will leave  16 schools
participating  in most sports in the conference as of July 1,
2014, with Pittsburgh and Syracuse moving to the ACC a year
earlier and  Notre Dame  going to the ACC for all sports except
football at an undetermined date. As of July 2015, there would
be 12 teams committed to Big East football.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  