-- Asia Stocks Rise for 2nd Day as Obama Pledges Budget Deal
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-11-19T10:40:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/asian-stocks-rise-for-second-day-as-obama-pledges-budget-deal.html
Asian  stocks  gained for a second
day, with the regional benchmark index heading for its biggest
advance in a month, after President  Barack Obama  expressed
confidence that he and Congress will reach a budget agreement.  Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s biggest carmaker, rose 1.4
percent in  Tokyo . Japan Tobacco Inc. jumped 6.5 percent as the
government plans to postpone the sale of its stake in the
cigarette maker.  Billabong (BBG)  International Ltd. surged 10 percent
in Sydney after the surf-wear maker said it’s considering a
takeover.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 1 percent to 121.01 as of
7:38 p.m. in Tokyo, set for its biggest advance since Oct. 17.
Almost two shares gained for each that fell on the gauge. The
measure is extending its rally for a second day as Obama started
talks with Republicans and Democrats on a budget. Failure to
strike a deal will trigger more than $600 billion in automatic
tax increases and spending cuts that economists say may throw
the country into a recession.  “There were some early signs of some conciliatory language
in the U.S. late Friday night that was encouraging,” said
George Boubouras, Melbourne-based head of investment strategy at
UBS AG’s Australian wealth management unit. The Swiss bank has
about $1.5 trillion under management. “The market retracement
this month is an opportunity to buy the dip as investors
navigate through the political negotiation.”  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average increased 1.4 percent, its
biggest advance in a four-day period since March 2011. The Bank
of Japan holds a meeting today amid speculation the country’s
opposition party that advocates more aggressive monetary policy
easing will take power at elections in December.  U.S. Futures  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index added 0.6 percent, while
South Korea’s Kospi Index rose 0.9 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang
Seng Index gained 0.5 percent. China’s Shanghai Composite Index
added 0.1 percent, erasing losses of as much as 0.9 percent.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.4
percent today. The S&P 500 retreated for a second straight week
last week and has lost almost 5 percent since the Nov. 6
election set up a budget showdown between Obama and the
Republican-controlled House.  The U.S. equity benchmark reversed losses of as much as 0.7
percent Nov. 16, closing 0.5 percent higher, after U.S. House
Speaker John Boehner said talks over the so-called fiscal cliff
were “constructive.” Obama, who is visiting Asia this week,
said he is confident a deal can be achieved.  Exporters to the U.S. advanced. Toyota climbed 1.4 percent
to 3,370 yen in Tokyo.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , a supplier of toys and
clothes to retailers including Wal-Mart Stores Inc., rose 2.7
percent to HK$12.38 in Hong Kong. Samsung Electronics Co.,
Asia’s biggest exporter of consumer electronics, added 1.9
percent to 1.332 million won in  Seoul .  Japan Tobacco  Japan Tobacco jumped 6.5 percent to 2,411 yen. The Japanese
government will postpone the planned sale of part of its 50
percent stake in the company due to weak economic conditions,
political uncertainty and a possible tax increase, according to
a finance ministry official, who asked not to be named.  Billabong surged 10 percent to 81.5 Australian cents. Paul
Naude, who has been the company’s president of the Americas
since 1998, is examining a potential buyout, five weeks after
TPG International LLC scrapped a bid. Naude will stand aside for
six weeks to seek talks with financiers and gain support for a
bid proposal, the company said in a regulatory statement today.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 9.9 percent from this
year’s low on June 4 through the end of last week as central
banks added stimulus to spur economic growth and data showed a
slowdown in  China  may be ending. Shares on the Asian benchmark
index traded at 13.2 times estimated earnings, compared with
13.1 times for the S&P 500 Index and 11.8 times for the Stoxx
Europe 600.  Index Changes  Kunlun Energy Co., a Chinese gas supplier controlled by
PetroChina Co., advanced 3.1 percent to HK$15.38 in Hong Kong.
The Hang Seng Indexes Co. will add Kunlun to the  Hang Seng Index 
effective Dec. 10, increasing the components of the Hong Kong
equity benchmark index to 50 from 49 currently.  Great Wall Motor Co. , China’s biggest maker of sport
utility vehicles and pickup trucks, rose 4.8 percent to
HK$24.05. The stock will be added to the Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed in Hong Kong,
replacing BYD Co., the Chinese automaker partially owned by
 Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. BYD gained 2.5 percent.  Kangwon Land Inc. climbed 5.1 percent to 27,750 won in
Seoul. The South Korean casino and hotel operator will get
government approval this month to expand its gambling business,
MoneyToday reported on Nov. 16, citing unidentified industry
officials. Kim Hong Dae, a spokesman for Kangwon Land, declined
to comment, while Lee Jun Hyub, an official at the ministry’s
tourism promotion division, said nothing has been decided.  Ping An  Among stocks that declined, Ping An Insurance Group Co.,
slipped 1.9 percent to HK$58.45. HSBC Holdings Plc is in talks
to sell its $9 billion stake in China’s second-largest insurer
as the U.K. bank sheds assets to revive profit growth.  Shandong Weigao Group Medical Polymer Co. tumbled 17
percent to HK$8.19 in Hong Kong after the maker of syringes and
blood bags reported third-quarter profit that missed analysts’
estimates.  Of the 565 companies on the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  that
reported quarterly results since Oct. 1, for which estimates are
available, 55 percent fell short of expectations, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  