-- Aussie Remains Higher on Top Debt Rating After France Cut
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-11-20T05:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/aussie-holds-advance-on-top-rated-debt-demand-after-france-cut.html
The Australian dollar maintained a
gain from yesterday after  France  lost its top credit grade from
Moody’s Investors Service, spurring speculation the South
Pacific nation’s highest-rated debt will draw more investors.  The so-called Aussie snapped a three-day decline versus the
 New Zealand  dollar even after the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  said
in minutes of its November meeting that more interest-rate
reductions may be appropriate. Australia is one of the seven
sovereign borrowers with a stable AAA rating from all three
major credit assessors. The New Zealand currency slid for the
first time in five days versus the yen after the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
said global economies are slowing.  “There’s more money looking at places like Australia
because of the secure AAA rating,” said Ray Attrill, Sydney-
based global co-head of currency strategy at National Australia
Bank Ltd. “The next one big figure on the Aussie will probably
be determined by whether they do cut rates or don’t cut rates in
December,” he said, referring to the RBA.  Australia’s dollar was at $1.0413 at 4:41 p.m. in Sydney
after climbing 0.7 percent to $1.0412 yesterday. The currency’s
implied three-month volatility declined to 7.62 percent, the
lowest since July 2007. The Aussie dollar rose 0.2 percent to
NZ$1.2717 following a three-day, 0.8 percent slide. New
Zealand’s currency fell 0.2 percent to 81.88 U.S. cents.  Moody’s lowered its rating on France by one level to Aa1
from Aaa with a negative outlook, citing a sustained loss of
economic competitiveness.  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the euro
region’s second-biggest economy in January.  Reserve Currency  Demand for the Aussie was also boosted after the
 International Monetary Fund  said it’s considering classifying it
and the Canadian dollar as reserve currencies.  Australia’s dollar is “to be considered for inclusion”
separately in the IMF’s “Currency Composition of Official
Foreign-Exchange Reserves” data, the lender said in a report
published on Nov. 14. It has previously been included in an
“other currencies” category in the COFER reports.  The RBA on Nov. 6 left unchanged its overnight cash rate
target at 3.25 percent, having lowered the benchmark by 1.5
percentage points since embarking on a series of reductions in
November 2011.  “Members considered that further easing may be appropriate
in the period ahead,” according to the RBA’s minutes released
today. “While a gradual recovery in both dwelling and other
business investment was anticipated, assisted in part by the
lower level of  interest rates , there was also uncertainty about
the timing and magnitude of this pick-up.”  ‘Easing Bias’  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  will speak on the economy from
7:15 p.m. local time today in  Melbourne .  Overnight-index swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show
traders see a 68 percent chance the RBA will lower the rate to 3
percent at its next meeting on Dec. 4. That compared with a 64
percent possibility observed yesterday.  The meeting record “certainly signals that the RBA has an
easing bias as they probably should, given global situations at
the moment,” Gavin Stacey, Sydney-based chief interest-rate
strategist at Barclays Plc, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. “Global investors are running to Australia because
it’s such a relatively safe place to invest but, of course, that
stampeding to Australian  government bonds  has indeed created a
lot of expensiveness across the curve.”  The nation’s bonds fell, with 10-year yields rising seven
basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 3.16 percent. The
rate slid to a  record low  of 2.70 percent on June 4.  Both the Australian and New Zealand dollars weakened
against the yen after the BOJ said the world’s third-largest
economy will remain “relatively weak” and overseas economies
are in a deceleration phase. The  BOJ  refrained from adding to
monetary easing today.  The Aussie declined against  Japan ’s currency for the first
time in five days, dropping 0.2 percent to 84.61 yen. The New
Zealand currency slid 0.3 percent to 66.54 yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  