-- Australia Blocks Call for WTO to Probe Tobacco Packaging
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-11-19T10:53:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/australia-blocks-call-for-wto-to-probe-tobacco-packaging.html
Australia  blocked a request by
 Honduras  for World Trade Organization judges to investigate the
legality of an Australian law that prohibits the display of
 tobacco companies ’ logos, labels and trademarks.  Honduras challenged the Australian ban on April 4, saying
it violates global rules on intellectual property. The Geneva-
based WTO agreed on Sept. 28 to examine a similar Ukrainian
complaint against the plain-packaging rules. Australia won’t be
able to block a second Honduran request for judges to rule.  As of Dec. 1, cigarettes in Australia will have to be sold
in dark brown packets, with no symbols or images and the same
font for all brands. Global tobacco companies on Aug. 15 lost a
legal to challenge to the law, the first requiring cigarettes to
be sold in uniform packages, after Australia’s top court ruled
the government didn’t benefit from the removal of trademarks.  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) ,  Imperial Tobacco Group
Plc (IMT) ,  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  and  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  had
claimed the government illegally seized their intellectual
property by barring the display of trademarks.  Smoking kills 15,000 Australians annually and costs about
A$31 billion ($32 billion) in yearly health and workplace
expenses, the government says. With 15 percent of the population
age 14 or over smoking daily, it’s the country’s top drug and a
preventable health issue, Australian officials say.  Honduras and Ukraine say the law is based on insufficient
scientific evidence and that the plain-packaging rules will
unnecessarily restrict trade because Australia’s public-health
goal can be met by other means.  Dominican Republic  The Dominican Republic said on Nov. 9 said it will also ask
the WTO to investigate its  complaint  against the Australian
plain-packaging law in its first challenge at the trade arbiter.
The request will be included on the Dispute Settlement Body’s
Dec. 17 agenda, the  Dominican Republic  said in a statement.  “These unprecedented measures will undermine the Dominican
Republic’s tobacco industry, in particular its premium cigar
sector,” according to the statement. “By prescribing
standardized plain packaging, the tobacco market will be driven
towards commoditization, with declining prices, and increasing -
- rather than falling -- consumption and illicit trade.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  