-- Australian Soccer Gets $A160 Million Broadcast Deal Over 4 Years
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-11-19T02:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/australian-soccer-gets-a160-million-broadcast-deal-over-4-years.html
Football Federation  Australia  said
Fox Sports, Foxtel and SBS will pay A$160 million ($166 million)
for broadcast rights to A-League and Socceroos international
soccer matches over four years.  The agreements, which start July 1, will deliver A$148
million in cash and A$12 million in marketing support, double
the value of the previous deal on a year-to-year basis, the
governing body said today in a statement.  “We are happy with the amount,” FFA Chairman Frank Lowy
said at a televised news conference in Sydney. “We will be able
to run the game appropriately. The outlook for Australian
football is increasingly positive.”  The new agreements, under which one A-League match will be
shown on free-to-air television each week, will boost soccer’s
profile in a country where it competes with rugby union, rugby
league and Australian football for fans and corporate support.  Fox Sports will continue as the A-League’s primary
broadcaster through June 30, 2017, and will provide exclusive
live coverage of all Socceroos matches, the FFA said. The pay-
television broadcaster will also show all 32 games of the 2015
Asian Cup, to be hosted by Australia.  Beginning at the start of the 2013-2014 A-League season,
SBS, a national public broadcaster, will show one live match
every Friday. The network will also show all finals matches,
including the championship game, on a one-hour delay.  SBS, which has the Australian rights to show the World Cup
tournament through the 2022 edition, will show Socceroos
qualification matches on a one-hour delay.  “SBS will significantly extend the audience reach of our
major games for the Socceroos and in the A-League, with benefits
for our fans, clubs and sponsors,” FFA Chief Executive Officer
David Gallop said in a statement.  The A-League replaced the National Soccer League as
Australia’s flagship competition seven years ago and has
attracted players including former  Italy  forward Alessandro Del Piero and ex-England striker Emile Heskey this season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  