-- Australia School Flaws May Cost A$1.5 Trillion, Garrett Says
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-11-19T00:05:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/australia-school-flaws-may-cost-a-1-5-trillion-garrett-says-1-.html
Australia  risks lower  living
standards  and lost wealth if it doesn’t improve its education
system, Education Minister Peter Garrett said in Sydney today.  Failure to improve the nation’s schools would result in a
loss over the next 80 years equal to Australia’s current annual
economic output of A$1.5 trillion ($1.55 trillion), Garrett
said, announcing details of a study of the education system by
PricewaterhouseCoopers.  “Australians will pay a high price if we stick with the
current broken school funding system,” Garrett said, citing a
warning raised by the report. “If we do nothing, we stand to
lose an amount equivalent to everything Australians have
produced all year.”  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  is seeking to implement some
of the changes urged in a report chaired by Australian Future
Fund Chairman David Gonski. The report found earlier this year
that spending may need to rise by about A$5 billion a year to
improve education at government-funded schools, particularly in
disadvantaged and rural areas.  In the past decade, Australian children have gone from
being equal second in reading to seventh, and from equal fifth
to 13th in mathematics, among Organization for Economic Co-
Operation and Development nations, according to the Gonski
report. He recommends a set investment per student and
additional funding to aid disadvantaged students.  Economic Cost  Gillard’s government, which aims to introduce legislation
in parliament this year in a bid to enact changes to education
funding before elections due within a year, hasn’t indicated it
will implement all the report’s measures.  PwC calculates that boosting the nation’s educational
performance would add A$3.6 trillion to the economy over 80
years. The analysis is based on previous work released by the
OECD, Garrett said.  “For a long time our debates about schools policies have
been based on old and outdated divisions,” Garrett said today.
“I believe they have reached their use-by date. Those kids who
face hurdles to reach their best must be lifted to a higher
level of achievement.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Sydney at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  