-- Bain Capital Sued by Ex-Software Executive Over Buyout
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-11-20T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/bain-capital-sued-by-ex-software-executive-over-firm-acquisition.html
Bain Capital  Partners LLC and an
insurance business technology company it controls were accused
in a lawsuit of acting in bad faith when engineering the
acquisition of an insurance software developer.  Artizan Internet Services LLC principal Richard Roy accused
Bain and  University Park , Illinois-based Applied Systems Inc. of
persuading him and his equity holders to sell the business last
year for less than they could have gotten from other possible
buyers. Bain and Applied systems caused Roy and the other
partners to be ousted after promising them they could stay and
earn at least $5 million more in performance bonuses over five
years, according to the complaint.  Former Applied Systems Chairman James P. Kellner is also a
defendant in the lawsuit filed yesterday in state court in
 Chicago .  “Bain, Applied and Mr. Kellner, by separating Mr. Roy and
his fellow equity holders from Applied after only a brief
tenure, essentially purchased Artizan for a substantial discount
because the performance payments will never be made,” according
to the complaint.  While the final sale price isn’t stated in the complaint,
Roy said he was told by Kellner that the transaction had a
potential economic value of $22 million. Roy seeks at least $5
million in damages. The acquisition was announced in March 2011.  Alex Stanton, a spokesman for Boston-based Bain, didn’t
immediately respond to a voice-mail message after regular
business hours seeking comment on the complaint. The private-
equity firm is accused in the complaint of unjust enrichment and
interference with contract rights.  Kellner, who is accused of fraudulent inducement, declined
to comment on the allegations.  Former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , the Republican
Party nominee defeated in his bid to become U.S. president on
Nov. 6, was Bain’s co-founder and served as its chief executive
officer from May 1992 to February 1999.  The case is Roy v. Kellner, 12L13105, Cook County,
 Illinois , Circuit Court, Law Division (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  