-- BOJ in the Balance as Next Government Picks Top Posts: Economy
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-11-20T08:41:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/bank-of-japan-in-the-balance-as-next-government-picks-top-posts.html
The government taking office after
 Japan ’s Dec. 16 election will pick the central bank’s top three
jobs, a chance to reshape policy in the third-largest economy
that the opposition aims to seize for unlimited stimulus.  BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa , criticized by politicians
for his perceived failure to reverse more than a decade of
deflation, ends a five-year term on April 8. His deputies
Hirohide Yamaguchi and Kiyohiko Nishimura exit in March.  Shirakawa pushed back at a press briefing in  Tokyo  today,
saying that he wants “respect for the BOJ’s independence” and
that a 3 percent inflation target, advocated by opposition
leader Shinzo Abe is “unrealistic.” Unrestrained money-
printing would worsen the national debt, he said.  Abe, leading in polls before next month’s vote, helped
drive the yen to a seven-month low yesterday by calling for
unlimited easing and restrictions on central bank independence.
An economy at risk of a second straight contraction this quarter
may spur an Abe-led government to install a pro-easing majority
at the BOJ, with two former private-sector economists on the
nine-member board showing signs of favoring more stimulus.  “It looks like we’ll have a clear five majority votes for
more BOJ action and that’s a change we haven’t seen in years,”
said Kazuhiko Ogata, chief economist at  Credit Agricole SA. (ACA) 
“BOJ policy will become more Bernanke-like in that it will be
more aggressive and less focused on side-effects.”  Preserving Ammunition  Central bank policy makers refrained from easing today
after a two-day meeting, as the government announced 1 trillion
yen ($12 billion) of spending to support growth. The government
will tap reserve funds from this fiscal year’s budget for the
money to support growth, after announcing 750 billion yen of
spending last month, Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura told
reporters in Tokyo today.  The central bank in October added to monetary stimulus for
the fourth time this year. All of 22 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News had forecast no change at today’s meeting.
Sixteen economists see easing at the bank’s meeting on Dec.
19-20, only days after the election, while two more see action
in January.  The yen rose as much as 0.3 percent to 81.14 per dollar
following today’s decision, after touching 81.59 yesterday, its
lowest since April 25 as Abe’s comments drove speculation on the
prospects of more easing. The currency was trading at 81.23 at
5:37 p.m. in Tokyo.  Construction Bonds  Abe, the leader of the  Liberal Democratic Party , last week
called for the BOJ to pursue an inflation target of as much as 3
percent, compared with the bank’s current 1 percent goal. He
said on Nov. 17 that he may ask the BOJ to buy construction
bonds to support  government spending  and would choose someone in
favor of inflation targets as Shirakawa’s successor,  Kyodo News 
reported.  The LDP’s campaign platform for next month’s election will
include a pledge to consider changing the law governing the BOJ,
two party officials said on condition of anonymity.  “The pressure from Abe is at a level we haven’t seen for a
while, if ever, but I doubt he can make the BOJ do everything
he’s said,” said Shinichiro Kobayashi, a senior economist at
Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting Co. “Although it seems
unavoidable that the BOJ will stay in an aggressive easing mode,
global investors may be disappointed after Abe actually wins the
election.”  Jojima’s Concerns  Finance Minister Koriki Jojima said today that direct
underwriting of government construction bonds by the BOJ
wouldn’t be appropriate and could lead to sharp inflation.  Tensions on the BOJ board emerged last month as Shirakawa
said new members Takehiro Sato and Takahide Kiuchi, former
economists at Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co. and Nomura
Securities Co. who joined in July, objected to the wording of a
policy statement saying the bank will pursue powerful monetary
easing until it judges its inflation goal to be in sight.  Elsewhere in  Asia , Chinese foreign direct investment fell
for a fifth month in October. The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  said
more interest-rate reductions may be appropriate to spur growth
as the nation’s mining boom wanes, according to minutes of its
Nov. 6 policy meeting at which it held its key rate.  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report may show that
housing starts fell in October after reaching a four-year high
the previous month. Builders broke ground on 840,000 houses at
an annual rate last month, down from 872,000 in September,
according to the Bloomberg survey median.  Credit Suisse Group AG says the BOJ may switch next year to
an “open-ended framework” in which it commits to buying around
2 trillion yen ($25 billion) in Japanese  government bonds  every
month until inflation goes above one percent.  Asset Purchases  “If the BOJ alters the framework as we are expecting, 2
trillion yen in JGB purchases per month would last until around
the end of 2018 or beyond,”  Hiromichi Shirakawa , chief Japan
economist at Credit Suisse and a former BOJ official, wrote in a
research note last week. He is no relation to the BOJ governor.  The BOJ has so far pledged to buy 39 trillion yen in
government debt before 2014 using its asset-purchase fund, close
to the 44 trillion yen of new bonds to be issued this fiscal
year. At its meeting on Oct. 30, the BOJ increased the size of
the fund by 11 trillion yen.  Credit Agricole’s Ogata said that Toshiro Muto, Kazumasa Iwata and Heizo Takenaka are contenders to succeed Shirakawa as
governor.  Muto, 69, a former central bank deputy governor and  finance
ministry  official who now heads a think tank, was the
government’s first choice for governor in 2008, only for his
nomination to be rejected by upper house lawmakers who saw his
ministry background as a threat to the bank’s independence.  Iwata, Muto  Iwata, 66, also a former BOJ deputy governor, leads the
Japan Center for  Economic Research  and advises the Cabinet
Office on economic policy.  “The government can benefit from having Muto at the top of
the BOJ as he has links to the finance ministry and will likely
move as the government wants,” Ogata said. “Iwata advises the
current government and also speaks to the LDP, indicating he’s
accepted by both parties, which is a huge advantage.”  Takenaka, 61, a former economic policy minister credited
with formulating the policies that led to Japan’s longest
postwar expansion, is an advocate of  easing, Ogata says.  “This is a great opportunity for the government to instill
its ideas in monetary policy,” said Koichi Haji,  executive
director  at the NLI Research Institute in Tokyo, adding that,
among the potential candidates, Iwata and Takenaka are the most
in favor of more easing.  Fed’s Plan  In the U.S., Bernanke and the Fed are pressing on with
record stimulus including a plan to buy $40 billion a month of
mortgage-backed securities, aiming to spur growth and reduce
unemployment. The Fed’s unorthodox policies show the struggle to
strengthen the nation’s recovery, six years after  home prices 
started a plunge that knocked the economy into the longest
recession since the Great Depression.  Nobuo Inaba, a former executive director of the BOJ and
another of Ogata’s picks as contender for BOJ governor, said in
an interview with  Bloomberg News  on Nov. 16 that the central
bank could be more aggressive in its monetary policy if the
government commits to lowering the nation’s public debt, the
largest in the world.  “The bank is concerned that continued massive bond
purchases will lead to a worsening of the nation’s fiscal
position,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  