-- BCE Amends Takeover Bid for Astral After Proposal Blocked
-- B y   C e c i l e   D a u r a t ,   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-11-19T21:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/bce-amends-takeover-bid-for-astral-after-proposal-blocked.html
BCE Inc. (BCE) ,  Canada ’s largest
telecommunications company, amended its takeover plan for  Astral
Media Inc. (ACM/A)  after the initial proposal was blocked by regulators
in October amid concerns it would harm competition.  The new proposal keeps the amount payable to Astral
shareholders the same, the companies said in a statement.
Holders of Class A and B shares will receive cash or a
combination of cash and as much C$750 million of BCE common
shares, or C$50 and C$54.83 a share, respectively. The C$3.38
billion ($3.39 billion) deal must be approved by Canada’s
broadcast and antitrust regulators.  Under the amendments, BCE’s regulatory covenants have been
modified to include viewership share criteria and an outline of
tangible benefits to consumers. The renewed effort to make the
deal happen underscores the desire both companies have to add
scale, said Gavin Graham, president of  Graham Investment
Strategy , a Toronto-based investment consulting firm that
advises clients such as mutual funds.  “Even with Astral’s French-language assets, BCE will still
be No. 2 to Quebecor by a long way,” Graham said in an
interview, referring to the Montreal-based owner of  Quebec ’s TVA
television network and Videotron cable company. “This may be
one of the reasons why BCE agreed to do this revised deal.”  French Market  The Ottawa-based regulator said on Oct. 18 that the deal
raised concerns about competition, ownership concentration in
television and radio, and the exercise of market power, with the
two sides differing in how they calculated market share.  The deal would have given BCE a 42.7 percent share of the
Canadian English-language television market and 33.1 percent of
the French-language market, the CRTC said.  BCE today said its resubmitted offer “addresses the
commission’s concerns and sets out the steps the companies would
take to comply with the relevant viewership thresholds,”
according to the statement.  The new proposal for Astral, a broadcaster and owner of
billboards, includes viewership of media properties jointly
owned with other companies in its calculation of market share,
while excluding viewership of U.S. channels.  Cash Dividend  “They are doing the right thing to submit, they had a good
case the first time around,” said Charles Boyer, a Montreal-
based telecommunications consultant and former vice-president of
the Canadian Association of Broadcasting.  Astral’s board of directors has also declared a cash
dividend of 50 Canadian cents a share to holders of record at
the close on Jan. 15.  Astral rose 3.1 percent to close at C$45.78, and BCE was
little changed at C$42.01 today.  Both companies agreed to extend the so-called outside date,
the deadline for the takeover to be completed, until June 1. The
previous extension was set to expire Dec. 16. BCE and Astral
each has the right to further postpone the deadline until July
31.  In the initial March 16 plan, BCE agreed to pay C$50 a
share for Astral, a 38 percent premium over the previous day’s
closing price. That exceeded the 26 percent average premium paid
by media companies globally in the last five years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Astral  soared  34 percent on the day
the transaction was announced.  Bad Deal  Last month’s rejection marked the first major decision by
Jean-Pierre Blais, the new head of the Canadian Radio-television
and Telecommunications Commission, who claimed the BCE-Astral
transaction wouldn’t be a good deal for Canadians.  BCE, the owner of the CTV television network, lacked French
content other than French sports channel RDS. Adding Astral
would bolster that content, Vice Chairman Martine Turcotte said
in March.  Some of the assets BCE may have to give up include the half
share of Teletoon, and the Family Channel, which they share with
 Corus Entertainment Inc. (CJR/B) , said Graham. And Rogers may pick up
some English-language networks, he said.  “So it’s not quite as good a deal for BCE, but two-thirds
or three-quarters of a loaf is better than none,” said Graham.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Daurat in Wilmington at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  