-- Boeing Poised for Biggest Dividend Increase Since 2007
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-11-19T21:16:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/boeing-poised-for-biggest-dividend-increase-since-2007.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  is poised for its largest
dividend increase since the financial crisis, returning cash to
investors as it tries to bolster a stock price hurt by delays to
its 787 Dreamliner jets.  The  quarterly payout  may rise 9.1 percent to 48 cents a
share next month, according to data  compiled by Bloomberg . That
compares with a 4.8 percent boost last year and no change in
2010, and would be the most for Chicago-based Boeing since a 14
percent jump in December 2007.  Boeing has $11 billion in cash and the promise of more to
come, as it boosts output to get planes from a record $307
billion order backlog to their buyers, who typically pay 40
percent of the price on delivery. Chief Financial Officer
Gregory Smith said Nov. 13 that buybacks are “a big priority”
and that Boeing is studying its dividend.  “Boeing doesn’t get much benefit of the doubt from
investors after all the program delays and issues,” said David Rowlett, a Baltimore-based analyst for T. Rowe Price Group Inc.,
which owns about 30 million  Boeing shares .  The 787, the first jetliner built chiefly of composite
materials, was delivered to its initial customer in 2011, more
than three years late. It still accounts for 805 of the 4,234
planes in Boeing’s backlog.  “We kind of went through the development cycle, now we’re
into production,” Smith said Nov. 13 at a Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. industrials conference. “We have successfully executed
those rate breaks, making the deliveries, so as we kind of get
closer to the end of the year, the plan would be to provide more
clarity, specifics on cash deployment.”  Boeing’s Slide  Boeing rose 1.7 percent to $71.96 at the close in  New York ,
amid a broader market rally. The stock still has fallen 1.9
percent  this year , compared with gains of 5.9 percent for Airbus
SAS parent  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  and 10
percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The shares have dropped 30 percent since Oct. 9, 2007, the
day before the first 787 delay became known. That trails EADS
and the  S&P 500  over the same period.  “Boeing should be deploying more cash to shareholders,
particularly since the share price is depressed,” Douglas S. Harned, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York,
said in a Nov. 6 note. “We would like to see plans for cash to
shareholders above a minimum level of $2 billion for 2013.”  That would show Boeing’s confidence in meeting targets to
raise output and deliveries, Harned said. Order growth, usually
a driver of the stock, hasn’t helped Boeing keep pace this year
with EADS or the broader market.  Aircraft Output  Boeing is working to boost output 60 percent in the four
years through 2014, a move that analysts estimate will help  push
revenue  up 36 percent to $93.7 billion, according to a Bloomberg
survey.  The share price has languished compared with previous
rebounds, according to Barclays Plc research. The doldrums
persist even as Boeing won the most orders in any nine-month
period since at least 1958 and built a backlog more than eight
times last year’s jet sales.  Through October, Boeing had gained 124 percent from
February 2009, which Barclays said was the stock’s last trough
on a monthly basis, during the financial crisis that followed
the 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  In comparable 44-month periods after previous troughs,
Boeing climbed 253 percent through November 2006, 177 percent
through October 1996; 203 percent through July 1991; and 417
percent through February 1986, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Tracking Troughs  On an absolute price basis, the rebound is the worst “‘off
the bottom’ in five cycles, or about 40 years of data,” even
with a record backlog, the prospect of high  cash flow  and lower
operational risk, said Carter Copeland, a Barclays analyst in
New York. He has an overweight rating on the shares.  “Boeing has become a ho-hum stock in that there’s not a
lot of new money interested in it,” said Ken Herbert, an
analyst with Imperial Capital in  San Francisco . His hold rating
on the stock puts him in the minority in a Bloomberg survey that
found 28 buy recommendations, three holds and one sell,
indicating analysts see potential gains for stockholders.  The planemaker is at the cusp of a transition from
investment to cash generation, said David Pearl, who helps
manage $24 billion including Boeing stock as co-chief investment
officer at Epoch Investment Partners Inc. in New York.  Free cash flow , or cash from operations minus  capital
spending , was $1.17 billion in the third quarter, compared with
$69 million a year earlier. That beat the $1.03 billion average
estimate of five analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Cash Flow  “Their free cash flow will double off these levels,
particularly because they don’t have another project that’s
going to take a lot of capital,” Pearl said in an interview.  Boeing is working on upgrades to its 737, 777 and 787,
which will cost less than developing a brand new jet. The
challenge is that such projects may not generate as much
investor enthusiasm.  “A lot of interest in the stock was as the Dreamliner was
early in its development stage, and that interest has definitely
waned,” said Janna Sampson, who helps manage more than $3
billion, including Boeing stock, for OakBrook Investments LLC in
Lisle,  Illinois .  Boeing stands to benefit from its success smoothing out
production bumps with the Dreamliner, and Copeland said
naysayers -- including himself -- are reversing their
predictions that the planemaker wouldn’t be able to attain its
target of building 10 787s a month by the end of 2013.  ‘Hesitant’ Investors  The goal is ambitious for a wide-body jet, let alone an
 all-new model  with composite-plastic materials and new
manufacturing processes blamed for the delays. Boeing took a
step toward that end when it increased the rate to  five  this
month, from 3.5, and it’s discussing going past 10.  At 10 a month, the 787 should generate about $14 billion in
annual revenue, T. Rowe Price’s Rowlett said. Over time, margins
should move toward those of more mature programs like the wide-
body 777, which he called a “huge earnings driver.”  “It’s exciting, but Boeing has to prove they’re going to
do it,” he said. “Investors are understandably hesitant to
give them credit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  