-- BofA Chief Says Existing Business Model Is ‘Best We Can Bring’
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   S u s a n n a   P a k
-- 2012-11-19T17:31:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/bofa-chief-says-existing-business-model-is-best-we-can-bring-.html
Bank of America Corp.  Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said his company’s business
model that serves people and corporations is a proven winner
based on the firm’s market share.  “Whether it’s our rising market shares in mortgage or
investment-banking market shares around the world, the current
business model is the best business model we can bring,”
Moynihan said today in a Bloomberg Television “Market Makers”
interview with Erik Schatzker and  Stephanie Ruhle . “The model
works, the  stock  has improved. For us it’s a matter of getting
the legacy issues behind us and have the earnings come back.”  Wall Street banks have resisted calls to break up by
critics such as former Citigroup Inc. CEO Sanford “Sandy”
Weill, who say the firms are too big to manage and put taxpayers
at risk. Bank of America and Citigroup have seen their stock
prices rebound this year, helping to defuse calls for structural
changes. Bank of America has  surged  70 percent in 2012, the best
showing in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  “We’ve streamlined our company dramatically by getting out
of a lot of things that weren’t core,” Moynihan said.  Assets (BAC) 
have been trimmed to about $2.2 trillion from as high as $2.7
trillion, he said. Bank of America ranks second by assets in the
U.S. behind JPMorgan Chase & Co. and is based in Charlotte,
 North Carolina .  Serious Talks  Moynihan, 53, said he’s encouraged by the tone of
discussions in Washington designed to avert the so-called fiscal
cliff.  “People are taking this very seriously,” the CEO said.
“It makes me optimistic, because at the end of the day it takes
difficult negotiations, but it has to be done quickly.”  Moynihan told investors this month that businesses have
delayed  capital spending  until the outcome of the fiscal cliff
negotiations becomes clear. The term refers to a package of tax
increases and spending cuts that begin taking effect in January
unless Congress comes up with a new budget plan.  For his own employees, Moynihan said that compensation this
year will be tied to individual results.  “We’re a pay-for-performance company,” the CEO said. “If
you had a good year, you’ll get paid for it, and we’ll work out
that over the next few weeks as we finish up the year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Erik Schatzker  in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Pak in New York at 
 spak10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  