-- BP Faces Rise in Azeri Oil Spending Without Extended License
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v   a n d   H e l l m u t h   T r o m m
-- 2012-11-20T10:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/bp-azeri-investment-will-have-to-rise-to-buoy-output-socar-says.html
The BP Plc-led group developing
Azerbaijan’s biggest oilfield will probably have to increase
investments to stem an output decline even without winning a
license extension, according to its state partner.  “Whether the field will require additional investments or
not, the probable answer is yes, it will,” Vitaliy Baylarbayov,
deputy deputy vice president for marketing and investment at
 State Oil Co. of Azerbaijan , said in Baku.  Production at the Azeri-Chirag-Guneshli, or ACG, project
fell 12 percent in the first half of the year, prompting Azeri
President  Ilham Aliyev  to accuse BP of “grave mistakes.”  The Caspian field remains one of BP’s most valuable
projects after the London-based company agreed to sell more than
$50 billion of assets to pay the costs of the worst  oil spill  in
U.S. history in 2010. BP has replaced executives in Azerbaijan
and said it has a plan for “long-term stabilization of ACG
production,” which made up 78 percent of Azeri output last
year.  BP and its partners, which include  Statoil ASA (STL) ,  Chevron
Corp. (CVX)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , have sought an extension to their
production-sharing agreement beyond 2024 to allow them to recoup
investments. The state oil company, known as Socar, is keen to
develop the field on its own after the contract expires.  “There is no conversation about extending the PSA,”
according to Baylarbayov, who said “the remaining period is
long enough to realize any kind of program agreed upon by the
sides.” Socar has the capacity to develop ACG after 2024 and
produce “whatever remains recoverable,” he said.  BP Plans  BP is staking its future on its expertise in offshore
drilling, focusing investment on projects in the  Gulf of Mexico ,
the  North Sea , off  Angola  and off Azerbaijan over the next five
years. Last month, Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley agreed to
sell BP’s half of  Russia ’s third-biggest oil company.  Socar President Rovnaq Abdullayev said last month the
company was working with BP on plans to increase production at
the Caspian Sea deposit to 35 million metric tons in 2014 from
33 million tons forecast for next year. Output will then remain
stable at 33 million to 34 million through 2020, according to
the Azeri company.  Output at the ACG field slumped because of technical and
“natural” reasons, and there are no plans to replace BP as the
operator of the field, Baylarbayov said. “With proper
treatment, I am sure we can get closer to the previously planned
output levels.”  BP Replacements  Plans for the field address “reservoir pressure and
decline management; well management and system optimization; as
well as sand control,” BP said in an e-mailed statement on Nov.
16.  BP replaced the head of regional operations and two
deputies after President Aliyev demanded that those
“responsible” for the decline be dismissed. BP’s office in
Baku didn’t immediately comment on the potential increase in
investment.  The U.K. company, which holds 36 percent stake in ACG, said
in August that the venture plans to  spend  $708 million on
operations and $2.52 billion on capital expenditure at the
project in 2012, compared with  investments  last year of $699
million and $1.9 billion, respectively, according to reports on
its website.  By the end of November, the partners will determine how
much investment is needed to stem the decline and estimate
future output after a “technical sub-committee” completes an
assessment, Socar’s Abdullayev said last month.  ‘Not Fatal’  Socar is moving forward with plans to build the Trans-
Anatolian, or Tanap, natural  gas pipeline  across  Turkey  to the
border of the European Union to carry gas from the Shah Deniz
field, where BP is also operator. Milli Maclis, Azerbaijan’s
parliament, voted today to approve agreements signed with Turkey
in October 2011 and June 2012 on construction of the pipeline.  Talks with partners in the OMV AG-led Nabucco West project,
which is vying with the planned Trans-Adriatic Pipeline to carry
Shah Deniz gas on to EU customers, are progressing more slowly
than expected, Baylarbayov said.  “There are still differences in positions but they are not
fatal,” Baylarbayov said, adding that the differences are
related to commercials issues and obligations of the sides. “I
think they can be overcome. Yet the differences may not allow us
to sign an agreement with Nabucco West as quickly as we
previously wanted to.”  Pipeline Competition  The Shah Deniz partners, which include Total SA and
Statoil, are expected to choose between the two by May. They
reached a preliminary agreement earlier this year with the
investors in the Trans-Adriatic Pipeline, or TAP, on providing
funding for the link and the right to buy a stake of as much as
50 percent of the project. TAP is being developed by Statoil,
EON Ruhrgas AG and EGL AG.  Socar will “almost certainly” take equity in whichever
pipeline project is chosen, while Socar will keep 51 percent of
Tanap, Baylarbayov said. BP, Statoil and Total have yet to agree
to buy a stake in the link from Socar, he said.  “The most important thing is to realize that no matter
whether they join or not, it will not in any manner delay the
implementation of Tanap,” Baylarbayov said.  Azerbaijan  started to finance Tanap, which may cost from $7
billion to $10 billion, before intergovernmental and shareholder
agreements were signed, he said.  “Turkey and Azerbaijan will do everything to ensure that
this pipeline becomes a reality because Azerbaijan’s gas
reserves cannot be developed without a dedicated pipeline,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net ;
Hellmuth Tromm in Berlin at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  