-- Brazil Soybean Farmers Seen Facing Spread of Invasive Pigweed
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-19T16:28:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/brazil-soybean-farmers-seen-facing-spread-of-invasive-pigweed.html
Brazilian soybean farmers are facing
a spread of invasive weed species, particularly herbicide-
resistant pigweed, according to Soybean & Corn Advisor Inc.  Pigweed  may have become a significant problem on several
million hectares in southern  Brazil , the Hinsdale, Illinois-
based industry researcher wrote in an online  report  today.
Herbicide-resistant pigweed has yet to be found in Mato Grosso
state, it wrote.  Brazil is expected to overtake the U.S. as the largest
soybean exporter in the 2012-13 season, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture forecasts. Widespread use of Roundup Ready soybeans
and Roundup herbicide led weeds to become resistant in the South
American country, according to Soybean & Corn Advisor.  “Weed control in the soybean fields of Brazil was easier
in years past because of a general lack of invasive weed
species,” the researcher wrote. “After several  decades  of
monocrop soybean production and the use of a single herbicide,
weed control in Brazilian soybean fields has become more
difficult and more expensive.”  Three or four pigweed plants per square meter can cause
crop losses of as much as 10 percent, Soybean & Corn Advisor
wrote. The spread of Roundup-resistant weeds raised farmers’
costs by forcing them to apply a cocktail of herbicides to keep
unwanted plants under control, according to the report.  Central Brazil has no freezing temperatures to kill off
weeds, and warm weather during the dry season allows the plants
to grow year round, the researcher wrote.  A hectare equals 2.47 acres and a square meter equals 10.8
square feet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  