-- BTM Cuts Offshore Wind Forecast on German Grid, Sweden Incentive
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-11-19T17:02:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/btm-cuts-offshore-wind-forecast-on-german-grid-sweden-incentive.html
Global offshore wind turbine
installations are expected to grow more slowly than previously
expected because of grid delays in  Germany  and the price of wind
power in Sweden, according to Navigant Consulting Inc.  Navigant’s BTM Consult ApS unit cut its cumulative forecast
for the five years through to 2016 by 11.6 percent to 23.9
gigawatts of offshore turbines, the company said in an e-mailed
report. The largest downgrade of 1,700 megawatts was in Germany.  “Germany has been downgraded despite a huge pipeline of
offshore projects in German waters as there is concern in the
wind industry over grid availability and grid delays,” Aris
Karcanias, an analyst at BTM Consult, said by e-mail.  Developers of offshore wind including Dong Energy A/S and
EnbW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG suspended projects in Germany
on a lack of grid connection agreements, hampering the nation’s
goal to build 25 gigawatts of turbines by 2030. The German
government endorsed draft legislation in August designed to end
delays and provide investor security by making grid operators
accountable for financial damage.  Those penalties and high upfront costs will impact future
developments, Karcanias said. He also reduced his forecast
because  Sweden ’s incentive program for offshore wind doesn’t
deliver a power price “sufficiently attractive to lure
investors” when the cost of cable connections paid for by the
project owner in Sweden are factored in.  Europe Leads  BTM Consult also said the cost of some new European
projects increased to more than 4 million euros ($5.1 million) a
megawatt, “which is 1.5 times to more than double the cost of
early large scale European and Chinese offshore projects.”  The costs, pushed up as turbines are built further from
shore in deep water and more difficult conditions, will begin to
fall as new technologies and installation methods are
introduced, according to Karcanias.  Europe  will lead in offshore turbines to 2016 with Asia
accounting for 25 percent, BTM Consult said. It predicts  China ,
the U.K. and Germany will be the three largest offshore wind
markets by the end of 2021.  BTM Consult found 470 megawatts of new sea-based turbines
were added in 2011 bringing the cumulative capacity to 3,987
megawatts. Vestas Wind Systems A/S and Siemens AG shared 86
percent of the total, followed by REpower Systems SE and Sinovel
Wind Group Co., according to the research.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  