-- California’s Post-Partisan Experiment
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-19T23:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/california-s-post-partisan-experiment.html
Uprooting intense partisanship in
 Washington  would be easier if fewer legislators represented
safe, ideologically homogenous districts. Or so reformers have
long maintained. Now, with the final results in from legislative
races in  California , that thesis will get a real-world test.  California conducted two important election experiments
this year. It switched from a system of traditional party
primaries to one in which the top two candidates move on to the
general election regardless of their party affiliations. In
addition, it took redistricting powers out of the state
legislature and invested them in a nonpartisan  citizens
commission .  This is not to say that politics changed overnight. More
than four in five races in California for the U.S. House of
Representatives this year included an incumbent legislator, and
more than nine in 10 incumbents won. Spending reached
predictably astronomical levels, with close contests in the 10th
and 52nd Congressional Districts each attracting more than $8
million from outside groups -- a vast amount to devote to
individual House races.  Yet there were promising returns. Two races featuring
longtime incumbent Republicans Dan Lungren and Brian Bilbray
were so close they were decided only in recent days (both lost).
Among races with candidates from opposing parties, 18 percent
had a victory margin of less than 10 points, more than double
the 7 percent average over the past decade, according to the
 Public Policy Institute of California . Meanwhile, there were
nine congressional districts and 19 state districts featuring
 general election  candidates from the same party; most of those
races were more competitive than in the past.  In the heavily Republican 8th District, the top-two system
worked according to plan, with Democrats helping to elect Paul Cook, the more moderate of two Republican candidates. In the
heavily Democratic 15th, Republicans returned the favor, helping
to oust a sometimes-cantankerous incumbent, 81-year-old Pete Stark, in favor of Eric Swalwell, a challenger almost 50 years
younger. And in the marginally Democratic 31st District, where a
crowded field of Democrats allowed two Republicans to claim the
top spots, the victor, Representative Gary Miller, now has
greater incentive for moderation.  The new system won’t resolve the Republican Party’s
struggles in the state. Republicans lost seats in both the state
legislature and the congressional delegation. But more-
competitive districts and a top-two primary system may create
more opportunities for Republican moderates to win seats, regain
influence and shape a better future for their party.  California was not alone in its experimentation. In
 Arizona , which adopted a similarly nonpartisan redistricting
process, three House districts were newly competitive; the race
for the seat of former Representative  Gabrielle Giffords  was so
close it was only decided over the past weekend.  Less-partisan districts and a top-two primary system won’t
eliminate the partisan incentives that dictate much behavior in
Washington. But early returns suggest Californians have adopted
smart election innovations that may provide a boost to moderate
political leaders of all stripes. If it works in California, it
can work elsewhere.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  how to achieve a Hamas-Israel
cease-fire ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  Hamas-Israel fighting ; William
Pesek on Christine Lagarde’s  giving short shrift to Asia ; Ramesh
Ponnuru on  Republicans’ leverage in fiscal-cliff negotiations ;
Betsey Stevenson and Justin Wolfers on the  forecasting prowess
of crowds ; Cass R. Sunstein on the  broken Senate confirmation
process ; Megan Greene on why  the euro is sunk  if German
intransigence continues.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 