-- California Carbon Allowances Sold Out at $10.09 in Auction
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-11-20T00:28:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/california-carbon-allowances-sold-for-10-09-in-first-auction.html
Carbon allowances for the start of
 California ’s program to curb greenhouse-gas emissions, the
largest U.S. system of the kind, sold out last week at $10.09 a
metric ton, lower than the range analysts forecast.  The state Air Resources Board sold all 23.1 million carbon
permits offered at a Nov. 14 auction for the first compliance
period of the program starting Jan. 1, the agency’s website
showed today. The permits, each of which allows the release of
one metric ton of carbon, were estimated to clear between $12
and $15 a ton in the first auction, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance.  Carbon futures fell to $12.15 a ton after the California
Chamber of Commerce filed a lawsuit challenging the state’s
authority to sell permits. The program covers 85 percent of
emissions in an economy valued at $1.74 trillion last year. The
state is giving away about 90 percent of permits at the onset
and selling the rest in what will be the second-biggest carbon
market, after the European Union program.  The auction clearing price “echoes the sentiments
expressed by some market participants regarding the
uncertainties and the sheer volume of allowances being auctioned
in this round,” Samantha Unger Katz, managing director of BGC
Environmental Brokerage Services in  New York , said by e-mail.  Second Phase  Futures contracts based on carbon permits for 2013 were
trading at $11.60 a metric ton on the Atlanta-based
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  at 4:26 p.m. New York time, down
from $12.05 on  Nov. 16 , Lenny Hochschild, head of global carbon
trading for broker Evolution Markets in White Plains, New York,
said. No trades were done this morning before the release of the
auction results, he said.  The state sold 5.58 million out of the 39.5 million
allowances it put up for auction to be used in the second phase
of the program, beginning in 2015. The advance permits cleared
at $10 each, the lowest price allowed by the program, known as
the “floor” price.  Bloomberg New Energy Finance predicted that some of the
advance allowances would go unsold as fuel distributors waited
to begin stockpiling credits.  Capping Carbon  Companies bid for more than three times the number of
allowances up for sale to be used in the first compliance
period, the state air board said.  “That’s around 70 million allowances bid, so that’s pretty
healthy,” Anthony D’Agostino, director of emissions markets at
 RBC Capital Markets , said by telephone. “On the flip side,
there were probably a lot of people who said, ‘Let’s stick some
bids in at $10,’ so you have to weigh that a little. If there
was no price floor, I think it would have been less.”  The California Chamber of Commerce filed a lawsuit Nov. 13
against the auction, calling it “an unconstitutional fee.” The
group argued in the suit that the air board lacks authority to
sell carbon allowances, saying it’s paramount to an invalid tax
costing taxpayers $70 billion.  California plans to cap  carbon emissions  beginning next
year from power generators, oil refineries and other industrial
plants. The limit will decline each year to achieve a 15 percent
reduction in emissions by 2020. Companies must surrender carbon
permits to cover their emissions over three phases of the
program. Those that discharge less than their cap can sell their
spare allowances.  Auction Results  Mary Nichols , chairman of the air resources board, said the
agency was “delighted” by the results of the Nov. 14 auction.  “We’re just pleased that the allowances sold out and that
they sold out at a good price,” Nichols said. “That’s a sign
that we’ve got a vibrant and successful market here.”  More than 70 companies qualified to bid in Nov. 14 auction,
with  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA) ,  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  and  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  among the refiners who
registered to participate. The qualified power utilities
included Pacific Gas & Electric Co., Los Angeles Department of
Water & Power, San Diego Gas & Electric Co. and Southern
California Edison.  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Noble Corp. (NE) ,  Royal Bank of Canada  and Vitol
Inc. also qualified to bid.  The auction was conducted electronically and overseen by a
half-dozen agency staff members in a room without windows. The
agency took five days to review the auction for manipulation
before certifying results.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  