-- Cameron Hits Phones to Rally Support for EU Budget Freeze
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-11-19T13:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/cameron-hits-phones-to-rally-support-for-eu-budget-freeze.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
has been “hitting the phones” to fellow leaders to rally
support for an European Union budget freeze before negotiations
at a Brussels summit this week.  Cameron spent the weekend calling his counterparts in
 France ,  Germany , Holland,  Sweden  and  Denmark , all net
contributors to the budget, urging them to back his call for a
real-terms freeze in 2014-2020. He also spoke to Polish Prime
Minister Donald Tusk, whose country gains most from EU spending.
More calls are planned, Cameron’s spokeswoman Vickie Sheriff
told reporters in London today.  “We believe that we can all agree on the right deal,”
Sheriff said. “They are tough negotiations but we have to find
an agreement on the way to spend this money.”  While British officials say they’re working hard on
securing a deal at the summit that begins Nov. 22, the premier,
who needs to placate euroskeptic lawmakers in his own
 Conservative Party  who are demanding a cut in spending, kept up
recent anti-EU rhetoric in public today. He said the 27-nation
bloc needs to stop “picking the pockets” of a British public
suffering from austerity measures at home.  “I don’t think it makes you a bad European because you
want a tough budget settlement in Europe,” Cameron told the
Confederation of British Industry’s annual conference in London.
“One of the interesting things about the proposals so far in
this debate about the EU budget is how little attention there
has been on the central costs of the EU, the commission budget,
what people get paid.”  Rompuy Plan  EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  is proposing to cut the
bloc’s budget to 973 billion euros ($1.24 trillion), lower than
the EU Commission’s proposal of 1.03 trillion euros and the
figure for the previous seven-year period of 994 billion euros.  A spokeswoman for Cameron described the new figure as a
welcome downward trajectory, adding that there is scope for
further reductions such as cutting the number of EU civil
servants.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s spokesman, Steffen Seibert,
described the budget talks today as “very difficult.”  “Germany will undertake the greatest effort at the council
meeting this week to work for a reasonable result,’’ Seibert
told reporters in Berlin. “If that works, it would be very
good. If it turns out that Europe needs a bit more time, that
wouldn’t be bad either.”  One option under consideration is for the other 26
countries to work out a budget plan on their own, then give the
British a few months to think it over, French officials said
last week.  Emulate Thatcher  Cameron is under pressure at home, both from his own
lawmakers and the opposition  Labour Party , to show he’s standing
up for British interests abroad. London Mayor  Boris Johnson , who
has repeatedly refused to rule himself out a future challenger
for the Tory leadership, called on Cameron to emulate former
Conservative Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher .  “It is time for David Cameron to put on that pineapple-
colored wig and powder-blue suit, whirl his handbag round his
head and bring it crashing to the table with the words no, non,
nein, neen, nee, ne, ei and ochi, until they get the message,”
Johnson wrote in his Daily Telegraph newspaper column today.  Labour leader  Ed Miliband  said today that Britain risks
“sleepwalking” toward an exit from the EU with devastating
economic costs. He told the CBI conference the bloc must be
overhauled to make it work, EU spending needs to focus on growth
and changes are needed in areas such as immigration rules.  ‘New Way’  “Too many have turned a blind eye to these failings,
believing their understandable real passion for the case for
Britain being in  Europe  should mean a passionate defense of the
institutions of the European Union,” he said. “The answer is
not just to make the same old case for the European Union more
loudly. We need to argue the case in a new way, not simply
assume it as an article of faith.”  More than 50 Tory lawmakers joined forces with Labour on
Oct. 31 to demand a real-terms EU budget cut. Cameron insists a
freeze is more realistic and has vowed to veto any deal that he
finds unacceptable.  An opinion poll found that more than half of British voters
would vote to leave the EU if a referendum was held. Fifty-six
percent said they want the U.K. to go it alone, while 30 percent
want to remain in the EU, the Opinium Research survey for
yesterday’s Observer newspaper showed. Opinium questioned 1,957
adults between Nov. 13 and Nov. 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  