-- Cameron Plans Judicial-Review Changes to Spur Economy
-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 2012-11-19T11:42:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/cameron-plans-judicial-changes-to-spur-britain-s-economy.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said he
plans to make it harder to apply for judge-led reviews of
government decisions in the U.K., arguing the current system and
other red tape are holding back projects needed to boost growth.  Cameron told business leaders he wants to make people think
twice before bringing cases by reducing the time limit on
reviews, charging more for them and reducing the number of times
a decision can be appealed to two from four.  Judicial reviews are “a massive growth industry in Britain
today,” Cameron said in a speech to the Confederation of
British Industry annual conference in London. “Back in 1998
there were 4,500 applications for review and that number has
almost tripled in a decade.”  Cameron said the government needs to do more to get the
economy growing and pledged to break down a culture of caution.
Many applications for judicial review are “completely pointless
and vexatious,” the premier said, adding that data from last
year showed they were five times more likely to be refused than
granted.  Separately, Business Minister  Michael Fallon  announced that
the government is replacing its “one-in, one-out” rule, so
that starting in January every new regulation that imposes a
financial burden on companies must be offset by a reduction in
red tape that saves double the costs of the new rules.  ‘Tough Choices’  “Our new target will require radical thinking,” Fallon
said in an e-mailed statement. “It will require policy makers
to make tough choices and to think hard about how to get
government off the backs of hard-working and hard-pressed
businesses.”  Civil servants have become “too risk-averse, too willing
to say no instead of yes,” Cameron said. “There are
understandable reasons for that. When you’ve got lobby groups
lined up to criticize every action you take, you’ve got
parliamentary select committees ready to jump on every bump in
the road, the rational choice is to be cautious, sometimes even
over-cautious. But for the sake of our country’s progress we
have got to cut through this.”  The proposed overhaul of the judicial-review system is
aimed at discouraging ill-founded applications, allowing the
courts to deal with other cases more swiftly, Cameron said. The
Ministry of Justice will begin a public consultation on the
plans and the next steps will be set out in the New Year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in  London  at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  