-- Cameron Rules Out New Council-Tax Banding
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-11-19T17:21:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/cameron-rules-out-new-council-tax-banding.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
has ruled out raising revenue by setting new top-range bands for
levies on residential property, known as council tax, his
spokeswoman said.  “We don’t think that people who have saved up hard to buy
a home should be hit with a mansion tax, and we have no plans to
introduce new council-tax bands either,” Vickie Sheriff told
reporters in  London  today. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  is scheduled to update lawmakers on his fiscal plans in
a statement to Parliament on Dec. 5.  Business Secretary  Vince Cable , a Liberal Democrat member
of Cameron’s Conservative-led coalition, indicated yesterday
that some kind of property levy is being considered by the
parties for inclusion in Osborne’s statement as the “obvious”
place to look for revenue.  The poorest 20 percent of U.K. households pay 5.6 percent
of their total income in council tax, three times the proportion
the wealthiest 20 percent contribute, according to a study by
Michael Orton, a researcher at the University of Warwick. That
disparity has prompted Liberal Democrats to push for a mansion
tax of 1 percent a year on homes valued at more than 2 million
pounds ($3.2 million). The Conservatives have rejected the idea.  “One of the reasons it’s the obvious place isn’t simply
that it’s fairer; it’s that property can’t run off to Monaco and
Lichtenstein,” Cable told the  BBC ’s “Andrew Marr Show”
yesterday. “As with so many of these things, the devil is in
the detail. But it is right that we do tax wealth.”  ‘Broadest Shoulders’  Asked today if Osborne would be looking at increasing stamp
duty, a levy on house sales, Sheriff said that “the chancellor
will be looking at all these issues in the autumn statement.
Those with the broadest shoulders should bear the greatest
burden.”  Conservative London Mayor  Boris Johnson  called on Osborne
today not to raise council tax on London houses.  “We should have taxes that are low but fair, and it is
absurd to be suddenly whacking up taxes on cash poor people who
happen to inhabit expensive houses in London when firms like
Google are paying zero,” Johnson told the Confederation of
British Industry’s annual conference in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  