-- Canadian Stocks Rally Most in a Month Amid U.S. Budget Optimism
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   E r i c   L a m
-- 2012-11-19T21:31:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/canada-stocks-rise-on-u-s-budget-optimism-as-commodities-rally.html
Canadian  stocks  rallied the most in
a month as commodity producers gained amid concern over Middle
East unrest and optimism a deal can be reached to avoid
automatic U.S. spending cuts and tax increases.  Agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd. (AEM)  advanced 5.8 percent as analysts at
RBC Capital Markets raised the stock’s rating after a recent
drop in the share price.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  climbed 3.3 percent
as oil rallied on concern Israel’s continued attack on Gaza may
disrupt supply.  Goldcorp Inc. (G)  rose 2.2 percent as a weaker
dollar pushed investors to seek the metal as an alternative
investment.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index added 162.68
points, or 1.4 percent, to 12,040.40 in Toronto, the biggest
gain since Oct. 16. The  Canadian equity benchmark  gauge is up
0.7 percent this year after erasing its 2012 gain last week.
Trading volume was 8.4 percent higher than the 30-day average.  “Markets were vastly oversold last week,”  Keith Richards ,
a fund manager with ValueTrend Wealth Management, said in a
phone interview from Barrie, Ontario. His firm manages about
C$100 million ($100 million). “Now, we’re seeing commodities
moving and the fiscal cliff talks going on, it’s plain as
daylight that the markets were going to rally. They were ripe
for it.”  The S&P/TSX has fallen 3.1 percent this month amid concern
that U.S. President  Barack Obama  and lawmakers may not reach a
budget agreement in time to prevent spending cuts and tax
increases from kicking in next year. Obama expressed confidence
yesterday that he will reach a deal to avoid a $607 billion
deficit-cutting package known as the fiscal cliff.  Commodities Rally  Gold and oil rallied as Israel’s Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said the army was prepared to invade the  Gaza Strip  for
the first time in almost four years. Energy and gold mining
companies  contributed  most to the advance on the S&P/TSX as all
10 industries gained.  Agnico-Eagle rose 5.8 percent to C$55.20 after Stephen Walker, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets, raised his rating
on the gold miner to outperform from sector perform while
maintaining a $69 price target.  “After the recent pullback, we believe Agnico’s shares are
attractively valued,” he said in a note to clients. Since
touching a high this year on Nov. 8, the shares fell 8.5 percent
over the following week.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s largest producer of the
metal, rose 1.2 percent to C$34.19 and Goldcorp, the world’s
second-largest producer, added 2.2 percent to C$40.61. Gold for
December delivery gained 1.1 percent to settle at $1,734.40 an
ounce in New York.  Suncor Gains  Suncor, Canada’s largest oil producer, gained 3.3 percent
to C$32.59 and  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE)  added 1.9 percent to C$32.99
as crude rose to the highest level in four weeks. Crude for
January delivery increased 2.7 percent to $89.28 a barrel in New
York, the biggest gain since Oct. 19. Futures are up 3.5 percent
this month.  Agrium Inc. (AGU)  increased 3.3 percent to C$101.01, its biggest
gain since June, after hedge fund Jana Partners LLC, the
fertilizer company’s largest shareholder, raised its  stake  to
more than 6 percent and chose five nominees in preparation for a
fight to dislodge the current  board .  Jana is pressing Agrium to spin off its farm-supply retail
network from its wholesale fertilizer arm.  Astral Media Inc. (ACM/A)  climbed 3.1 percent to C$45.78. The
Montreal-based media company has agreed to an amended takeover
plan from  BCE Inc. (BCE) , Canada’s largest telecommunications company,
after their initial proposal was blocked by regulators. The
C$3.38 billion proposal addresses regulatory concerns, the
companies said in a statement today.  Augusta Resource Corp. (AZC)  fell 6.5 percent to C$2.44 after the
company said permitting for its proposed Rosemont copper project
near Tuscon, Arizona, is not expected until the first quarter of
next year. Joseph Gallucci, an equity analyst with Dundee
Securities Corp., lowered his rating on the stock to sell from
neutral.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  