-- Canadian Dollar Gains as IMF Considers Reserve Status
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-11-19T22:39:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/canadian-dollar-extends-gains-on-imf-reserve-status-move.html
The Canadian dollar gained the most
in a month against its U.S. counterpart after the  International
Monetary Fund  said it’s considering classifying the so-called
loonie and Australia’s dollar as reserve currencies.  Canada’s dollar, nicknamed the loonie for the image of the
waterfowl on the C$1 coin, gained earlier as global stocks and
commodities advanced amid optimism the  U.S. Congress  would avert
the so-called fiscal cliff. The currency extended gains after
details of the Nov. 14 IMF report were disclosed.  “We saw the Canadian dollar spike and I would say that the
IMF news is a pretty good catalyst,”  Jack Spitz , managing
director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of Canada (NA)  in
Toronto, said in a phone interview. “More and more central
banks are adopting a diversified approach, especially with
what’s gone on in Europe and the United States. It’s another
positive story on holding Canada and commodity currencies.”  The Canadian currency advanced 0.5 percent to 99.63 cents
per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto after gaining as much as
0.6 percent, the most since Oct. 17. The currency traded below
parity with the greenback last week and reached its lowest value
since August. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0037.  The Canadian and Australian dollars “are to be considered
for inclusion” separately in the IMF’s “Currency Composition
of Official Foreign-Exchange Reserves” data, the Washington-
based lender said. They’ve previously been included in an
“other currencies” category in the COFER reports.  International Demand  “This would shed greater light on the extent to which
reserve managers are investing in the Canadian dollar and the
Aussie dollar,” Emanuella Enenajor, an economist at  CIBC World
Markets  in Toronto, said in a phone interview. “It’s a bullish
signal because the IMF would only do this for a currency that is
gaining in its clout potentially in reserve portfolios.”  Russia has been adding Canadian dollars to foreign-exchange
reserves with Georgiy Mamedov, Russia’s ambassador to Canada,
calling it a haven currency in Toronto last month. The country
increased its holdings of the Canadian dollar in its
international reserves to 1.6 percent from 0.8 percent as of
January.  “There’s more and more interest in getting a better
breakdown of where reserve managers are allocating their
capital,” Enenajor said. “The loonie’s strength has been
almost entirely driven by these capital inflows.”  Bonds, Stocks  Canadian  bonds  declined, pushing the yield on the 10-year
benchmark note up four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point,
to 1.74 percent. The 2.75 percent security due June 2022 lost 37
cents to C$108.90.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  added 2 percent and the S&P
GSCI Index of 24 raw materials was up 2.1 percent. Oil, Canada’s
largest export, increased 3 percent to $89.28 per barrel in New
York.  U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  and White House Press
Secretary  Jay Carney  described a Nov. 16 meeting on the so-
called fiscal cliff, $607 billion in automatic tax increases and
spending cuts scheduled to take effect at the beginning of 2013,
as “constructive.” European finance ministers are due to meet
in Brussels tomorrow as they aim to craft a plan for Greece’s
next aid payout.  “We can expect equity sentiment and  oil prices  to provide
impetus for the Canadian dollar,”  Jeremy Stretch ,  head of
foreign-exchange strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
in London, said in a note to clients. “The market may have
reduced fiscal-cliff concerns in the wake of the constructive
talks on  Capitol Hill  at the end last week.”  The loonie has climbed 1.4 percent this year against nine
developed-nation counterparts tracked by Bloomberg Correlation -
Weighted Indexes. The U.S. dollar has dropped 1.3 percent, and
the yen leads decliners with a 7.3 percent drop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  