-- Celgene, Sanofi Executives Charged With Insider Trading
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-11-20T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/celgene-s-lazorchak-five-others-charged-with-insider-trading.html
Executives at  Celgene Corp. (CELG) , Sanofi
and  Stryker Corp. (SYK)  were among six people charged for their roles
in a health-care stock insider-trading ring that prosecutors
said generated $1.48 million in illicit profit.  John Lazorchak, 42, director of financial reporting at
Celgene, regularly tipped others to nonpublic information on
acquisitions, quarterly earnings results and regulatory news,
according to a  Federal Bureau  of Investigation complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in Newark, New Jersey.  Mark Cupo, 51, the director of accounting and reporting at
Sanofi-Aventis, now known as Sanofi; and Mark Foldy, 42, a
marketing executive at Stryker Corp., also were charged.
Prosecutors said most of the profit went to Lawrence Grum, 48,
and Michael Castelli, 48, who also tipped friends and family.
The case involves two sets of high school friends and at least
one witness who secretly recorded Grum for the FBI.  “Three of the defendants exploited their access to
sensitive, confidential information at two New Jersey-based
pharmaceutical companies and a prominent medical technology
company,” Paul Fishman, the U.S. attorney in New Jersey, said
in a statement.  Michael Pendolino, 43, a high school friend of Lazorchak,
also was charged in the FBI complaint. The Securities and
Exchange Commission sued the six men, as well as a seventh,
James Deprado, claiming they made $1.7 million in illicit
profit.  FBI, SEC  The health-care industry has been hard-hit by  insider
trading . Before yesterday, at least 75 people had been sued by
regulators or charged by prosecutors since 2008 for passing or
getting insider-trading tips about pharmaceutical, biotechnology
or other health-care stocks,  Bloomberg News  reported last week.
With the FBI and SEC complaints, the number rose to at least 82.  Grum reassured Cupo that government investigators were
unlikely to discover their scheme, according to the SEC.  “At the end of the day, the SEC’s got to pick their battle
because they have a limited number and huge numbers to go
after,” Grum told an FBI cooperating witness on Sept. 16,
according to the arrest complaint.  The tips involved Celgene’s announcement in November 2007
that it was buying Pharmion Corp. for $2.9 billion;  Sanofi (SAN) ’s
announcement in March 2010 that it was buying Chattem Inc. for
$1.9 billion; Celgene’s news in June 2010 that it was buying
Abraxis BioScience Inc. for $2.9 billion; and Stryker’s
announcement in May 2011 of plans to buy Orthovita Inc. for $316
million, according to the SEC.  Quarterly Earnings  They also involved six quarterly earnings announcements by
Celgene, and the company’s announcement in June that it was
withdrawing an application in  Europe  for expanded use of its
blood cancer drug Revlimid, according to the government.  The six men charged by the FBI all appeared yesterday
afternoon in handcuffs in court in Newark. U.S. Magistrate Judge
Joseph Dickson set bail at $500,000 for Lazorchak, Cupo, Grum
and Castelli. He set bail at $250,000 for Foldy and Pendolino.
Lawyers for the six men declined to comment.  “What makes this case so disturbing is that three inside
executives were able to exploit the information that they
learned in the course of their employment to benefit such a wide
group of friends and family,” said Colleen Lynch, assistant
regional director of the SEC’s Philadelphia regional office.  The investigation began after Celgene’s acquisition of
Abraxis, Lynch said in a phone interview.  Patterns, Records  “A computer analysis of trading patterns and records, and
relationships among the parties, led us to uncover the insider
trading ring that the defendants thought they were otherwise
clever in hiding,” Lynch said.  Lazorchak, Pendolino, Foldy and Deprado attended Colonia
High School in  New Jersey , according to the SEC. Castelli, Grum
and a person referred to as Tippee 5 were classmates at a
different high school not identified by the SEC, and they
attended meetings of a winemaking club together.  Grum made about $735,000 in illicit profit, while Castelli
made about $640,000, according to the SEC. Grum worked as an
analyst of mortgage-backed securities and a securities trader
between 1986 and 1990, the SEC said.  The SEC claims seven tippees who weren’t sued benefited
from the inside information. The FBI refers to three co-
conspirators who attended Colonia High School, including a
reporter at a financial news website and an employee in the risk
assessment department of a New York-based hedge fund.  Brian Gill, a spokesman for Summit, New Jersey-based
Celgene, said the company learned yesterday that Lazorchak would
be charged. Lazorchak was fired yesterday morning, he said.  ‘Celgene’s Values’  “It is our understanding that the investigation involved
only one employee and not the company itself,” he said in a
statement. “Celgene is currently exploring its legal remedies.
The actions taken by this employee violate Celgene’s values,
guiding principles and formal policies.”  Jean-Marc Podvin, a spokesman for Paris-based Sanofi, the
parent of Sanofi-Aventis, didn’t immediately return a call.  “Mr. Foldy is no longer an employee and we have no further
comments,” Jo Johnson, a spokeswoman for Kalamazoo, Michigan-
based Stryker, said in an e-mailed statement.  Lazorchak lives in Long Valley, New Jersey; Cupo, Castelli
and Foldy live in Morris Plains, New Jersey; Grum in Livingston,
New Jersey; Pendolino in Nashua,  New Hampshire ; and Deprado in
Leesburg, Virginia. Pendolino is a chiropractor.  The case is U.S. v. Lazorchak, 12-mj-6755, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey ( Newark ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  