-- CEZ Mulls Arbitration Against Albania, Prepares Its Exit
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2012-11-19T12:16:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/cez-mulls-arbitration-against-albania-prepares-its-exit.html
CEZ AS (CEZ) , the  Czech Republic ’s largest
power producer, is weighing an arbitration suit against the
Albanian government after its attempt to unhook power from non-
paying utilities ended with police arrests of six employees.  Two of the six employees in the Adriatic nation remain in
police custody, CEZ spokeswoman Barbora Pulpanova said by phone
today. The Albanian energy-market regulator started a process of
withdrawing the license from CEZ last week, she said.  CEZ, which started disconnecting the utilities in Albania
at the end of last week, had to reconnect them again to comply
with a Nov. 17 decision by a Tirana court. CEZ’s management is
considering the arbitration as attempts at negotiations with
Albanian government authorities have so far failed, she said.  “The situation is clearly heading to CEZ’s exit from
Albania,” Miroslav Adamkovic, an analyst at  Komercni Banka AS (KOMB) 
in  Prague , wrote in a note to clients today. “CEZ is losing
money there and Albania stopped all payments for power in the
summer.”  The shares were down 1.2 percent at 679 koruna at 12:43
p.m. in Prague, a third day of declines. The stock lost 13.6
percent of its value this year.  Unpaid Bills  The Prague-based utility has been locked in a dispute with
the Balkan country’s government over tariffs and taxes, as well
as over unpaid electricity bills from local utilities. CEZ
reported a nine-month operating loss of 3.8 billion koruna ($190
million) in Albania, forcing the company to lower its full-year
earnings forecast on Nov. 8.  CEZ claims the Albanian market regulator ordered it to pay
the state-owned power producer higher tariffs without allowing
the Czech utility to raise prices for customers. The state
stopped paying for power altogether in the summer. CEZ will
probably exit its business in Albania, Chief Executive Officer
Daniel Benes said Nov. 8.  “So far we have had no word from the regulator,”
Pulpanova said. “We have meetings scheduled this week with
representatives of the Albanian government, but the government
has been inscrutable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  