-- Chile Invoking Ghost of Friedman Kills CPI Linkers
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-11-19T12:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/chile-invoking-ghost-of-friedman-kills-cpi-linkers-andes-credit.html
Chile ’s success in stamping out
inflation is punishing investors in the nation’s $51.7 billion
government bond market, where more than 70 percent of the
outstanding debt is linked to consumer prices.  So-called linkers have returned 3.8 percent this year,
compared with the emerging-market average of 12.6 percent,
according to data compiled by Barclays Plc. Chile’s central bank
has kept its benchmark borrowing rate at 5 percent for 10 months
even though traders anticipate annual inflation will slow to 1.8
percent in February, below the country’s 3 percent target.  While the central bank has turned Chile into the highest-
rated country in Latin America and allows the government to sell
bonds at the lowest yield in the region’s history, Citigroup
Inc. recommends investors avoid bonds tied to the  consumer price
index . The securities are underperforming because policy makers
refuse to reduce borrowing costs, a legacy of hyperinflation
that dictator  Augusto Pinochet  ended after seeking help from
Nobel Prize-winning economist  Milton Friedman  in 1975.  “Chile had a very long history of inflation and it really
had very serious problems,” said Claudio Loser, a former
Western Hemisphere director at the  International Monetary Fund .
He served as the IMF’s Chile director in the mid-1980s and has a
doctorate in economics from the University of  Chicago , where
Friedman taught. “Whenever there is a problem with inflation in
this inflation-targeting system, they adjust policies very
quickly. There is little patience for high inflation.”  World Beater  No other emerging-market central bank with below-target
inflation has resisted cutting interest rates or easing bank
reserve requirements this long, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Banco Central de Chile declined in an e-mailed statement to
comment on its monetary policy.  Chile’s Aa3 grade from Moody’s Investors Service, the same
as Japan and South Korea and five levels higher than  Brazil , has
helped the nation obtain Latin America’s lowest market interest
rates. The government sold 10-year dollar bonds last month at a
yield of 2.38 percent, or 3.19 percentage points below JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index of Latin American sovereign
debt. The peso is the world’s second-best performing currency
this year with a 7.7 percent gain against the dollar.  Citigroup and Bice Inversiones are telling clients the
central bank’s effort to quash inflation means CPI-linked bonds
will keep underperforming.  Real Rates  Annual cost-of-living increases in Chile, South America’s
fifth-largest economy, slowed to 2.9 percent in October from 3.7
percent a year earlier. After adjusting for inflation, the
nation’s real  interest rate  rose to 2.1 percent last month, the
highest in the Americas, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The yield on the government’s fixed-rate bonds due in
January 2022 has risen 12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage
point, since the end of August to 5.42 percent. Yields on
similar-maturity inflation-linked notes climbed 22 basis points
to 2.44 percent in the same period.  “You can’t go too much against the central bank,” Dirk Willer, a strategist at Citigroup in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “Inflation is fully under control.”  Chile’s central bank lowered its  interest rate  by a
quarter-point in January to 5 percent and has kept it unchanged
since. By contrast, policy makers in Brazil have cut borrowing
costs by the most of any major central bank tracked by Bloomberg
in the same period. The 3.75 percentage point reduction chopped
Brazil’s rate to a record low 7.25 percent, even as consumer
price increases have exceeded the government’s target.  Pump Priming  Central banks in the U.S. and Europe are also suppressing
interest rates to support economic growth. The  Federal Reserve 
has carried out three rounds of asset purchases, known as
quantitative easing, since reducing its target rate for
overnight loans between banks to a range of zero to 0.25 percent
in December 2008. The  European Central Bank  announced an
unlimited lending program in December.  Speculation the measures will cause consumer prices to
increase has prompted investors to pile into inflation-linked
debt from  developing countries . Brazilian linkers have returned
23.8 percent this year, according to Barclays.  Average inflation in 15 of the largest developing economies
accelerated to a seven-month high of 4.3 percent in September,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The data exclude
 Argentina . It slowed to 4.1 percent in October.  In Chile, traders in the forwards market for unidades de
fomento, the nation’s inflation-linked accounting unit, expect
consumer prices to rise 0.01 percent in the three months through
January and annual inflation to remain below the central bank’s
3 percent target in 13 of the 18 months through April 2014.  ‘More Hawkish’  “Most of the market thinks that the Chilean central bank
is more hawkish than the rest,” Felipe Hernandez, an economist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said by telephone from
Stamford, Connecticut. Chilean policy makers “believe the cost
of waiting and then having to make bigger cuts is less than the
cost of cutting less, sooner, and being wrong.”  Friedman helped to shape that hawkish view. In 1956,
Chile’s  Catholic University  signed a deal to send scholarship
winners to study economics at the  University of Chicago , where
Friedman taught alongside  Friedrich Hayek , an Austrian-born
economist who won the  Nobel Prize  two decades later.  The graduates then returned to teach economics in Santiago,
earning the moniker “Chicago Boys.” They recommended slashing
 government spending , ending price controls and increasing trade
to tame inflation that surpassed 700 percent in 1974.  Allende Coup  Almost two years after taking office in a coup that ousted
President Salvador Allende, Pinochet sought advice from a
 visiting Friedman  in March 1975 as inflation persisted above 350
percent. Pinochet stacked his cabinet with Chicago Boys and
their disciples in the late 1970s and early 1980s.  The inflation rate fell below 100 percent by 1977 and has
remained below 10 percent since 1994. Chile will post the
slowest inflation in  Latin America  this year, according to the
Washington-based IMF.  Pinochet regime’s conferred independence on the central
bank on Dec. 9, 1989, five days before the first democratic
elections in two decades. A year later, the central bank was the
second in the world to introduce an inflation target.  The country has posted budget surpluses in 15 of the 22
years since the return of democracy. In 2001, Chile introduced a
rule that forces it to save during boom years. It has been the
region’s only net creditor since 2005, according to the IMF.  ‘Friedman’s Theory’  Last year, Chile’s debt was equal to 11.2 percent of its
gross domestic product, the lowest of any country in Latin
America or Eastern Europe, IMF data show.  “Friedman’s theory was that an excess of money was always
the cause of inflation,” Rolf Luders, who studied under
Friedman at Chicago and became Pinochet’s finance minister in
1982, said in a telephone interview from Santiago. “The
principal contribution of the Chicago Boys to the reduction of
inflation was to reduce Chile’s fiscal deficits, which slowed
inflation from the very high rates of 1973 and 1974 and paved
the way for later success.”  The Chicago school remains influential in Chile. Two
government ministers, Cristian Larroulet and Joaquin Lavin,
studied economics at the University of Chicago, as did Deputy
Finance Minister Julio Dittborn.  Alonso Cervera, a Latin America economist at Credit Suisse
Group AG, says that Chile’s central bank is right to hold off on
cutting rates because economic growth remains strong.  Economic Growth  Gross domestic product expanded by 5.7 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, beating analysts’ estimates for the
second straight quarter. The economy is benefiting from an
 unemployment rate  that has dropped by almost half since August
2009 and from rising real wages. The price of copper, which
accounts for more than half of Chile’s exports, is beating its
10-year average this year at $3.52 a pound.  “Inflation is under control but it is a very dynamic
economy,” Cervera said in a telephone interview from Mexico
City. “There is no case to be made for lowering rates in Chile.
The question is whether they shouldn’t be raising rates.”  Yields on Chile’s 10-year dollar bonds due in 2022 were
little changed at 2.34 percent while the two-year swap rate
increased one basis point to 5.01 percent at 9:22 a.m. in
Santiago.  The cost of protecting Chilean bonds against default for
five years rose three basis points to 84 basis points, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent if a borrower fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Peso Boost  The peso appreciated 0.6 percent to 482.1 per dollar.  Traders have pared their estimates for inflation over the
next three months for five straight weeks. Three-month breakeven
inflation, a measure of expectations for future price increases,
fell to 1.63 percent on Nov. 16 from 1.7 percent a week earlier
and 4.79 percent at the end of August. Breakeven rates also
indicate that traders expect inflation to undershoot the 3
percent target for the next five years.  “There is a risk that in the next couple of months it
could go lower,” Mauro Roca, a strategist at Deutsche Bank AG
in New York, said in a telephone interview. “The short-term
inflation scenario is particularly benign. It’s because of the
central bank’s credibility and inflation expectations that are
anchored around the target.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net . 