-- Chinese Stocks Rise as Shanghai Index Rebounds
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-11-19T08:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/china-s-stock-index-futures-rise-after-home-prices-advance.html
Chinese stocks  rose, with the
 Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP)  Index rebounding from below 2,000 for the
second time in almost eight weeks, as financial and material
companies rallied.  Haitong Securities Co. gained 1.7 percent, leading an
advance for brokerages after the Shanghai Securities News
reported that the  China  Securities Regulatory Commission lowered
benchmarks for calculating  capital requirements . Anhui Conch
Cement Co. advanced the most in two weeks, pacing gains for
cement producers as home prices advanced. Kweichow Moutai Co.,
the biggest maker of baijiu liquor, slid the most in three
months on speculation retail prices will fall.  More than two stocks rose for every one that dropped in the
Shanghai Composite, which climbed 0.1 percent to 2,016.98 at the
close after a rally in the final hour lifted the gauge from an
intraday low of 1,995.77. The index last breached 2,000 for less
than two minutes during intraday trading on Sept. 26. It rallied
4.1 percent the following two days, the biggest gain among world
equity indexes, on speculation the government would take steps
to boost stocks.  “It was a technical rebound and short-term investors went
in as stocks approached lower levels,” said  Li Jun , a
strategist at Central China Securities Co. in Shanghai.
“However, without concrete policies, such a gain isn’t
sustainable. Sentiment in the market is still very poor.”  The Shanghai index has fallen 8.7 percent this year amid
concern China’s new leadership may slow efforts to reduce the
government’s grip on the economy, which expanded at the slowest
pace in more than three years last quarter.  Dividend Tax  The CSI 300 Index declined for a third day, losing 1
percent to 2,156.30. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of
Chinese companies traded in  Hong Kong  gained 0.3 percent today
after U.S. President  Barack Obama  expressed confidence that he
and Congress would reach a budget agreement. The Bloomberg
China-US 55 Index, the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed
Chinese companies, advanced 0.5 percent in  New York  on Nov. 16  The government said on Nov. 16 it will cut the dividend tax
by half for individuals who hold shares for at least one year as
part of efforts to encourage long-term investment and reduce
speculative trading.  Haitong Securities rose 1.7 percent to 8.41  yuan .
Everbright Securities Co. advanced 2.2 percent to 11.18 yuan.
Hong Yuan Securities gained 2.9 percent to 16.98 yuan.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission lowered
benchmarks for calculating capital requirements and expanded the
scope to make proprietary investments, the Shanghai Securities
News reported.  Party Congress  The Shanghai measure trades at 9.6 times estimated profit
for 2012, compared with the 17.8 average multiple since
Bloomberg began compiling the weekly data in 2006. Trading
volumes were 31 percent lower than the 30-day average, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Thirty-day volatility was at
12.8, compared with this year’s average of 17.1.  China completed the most important phase of a once-a-decade
power transition last week, with Xi Jinping succeeding  Hu Jintao 
as head of the ruling Communist Party.
 Wang Qishan , vice premier overseeing the financial sector, was
named head of the party’s discipline body.  The nation’s financial reforms will continue under the new
leadership even though Wang won’t be overseeing the economy and
 Zhou Xiaochuan  will likely step down as head of the central
bank, according to Kenrick Leung, fund manager at Amundi Hong
Kong Ltd.  The outlook for Chinese stocks is improving as the risk of
a hard landing has dissipated, said Leung, whose Greater China
fund has beaten 91 percent of rivals this year according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Leung favors Chinese technology and health-care companies,
according to an e-mailed response to questions.  Home Prices  New home prices in China climbed in 35 of the 70 cities the
government tracks, compared with 31 in September, according to
data from the statistics bureau yesterday.  Anhui Conch Cement, the biggest maker of the building
material in China, rose 2.5 percent to 15.97 yuan. Huaxin Cement
Co. added 1.9 percent to 11.06 yuan.  A gauge of  property stocks  slid 0.5 percent. Poly Real
Estate Group Co., the second biggest, retreated 1.5 percent to
10.99 yuan.  “With property prices rising, there won’t be any removal
of restrictions in the near term and that’s weighing on
stocks,” said Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based  fund manager  at Dazhong
Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million.  A gauge of consumer staples producers in the CSI 300
slumped 3.5 percent, the most among 10 industry groups. The
measure has fallen 11 out of 12 days and is down 12 percent this
month.  Staples Producers  Kweichow Moutai lost 4.6 percent to 214.05 yuan, the most
since Aug. 10. Wuliangye Yibin Co., the second-largest baijiu
maker, plunged 5.8 percent to 29.11 yuan.  Prices of Moutai’s goods may decline as hoarded supplies of
the company’s products return to the market, Chinese-language
financial website JRJ.com reported yesterday.  “We have seen weakness in Moutai’s share price lately;
that’s probably due to a decline in retail prices and concerns
over inventories,” said Liu Hui, Shanghai-based analyst at CSC
Securities HK Ltd.  Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. dropped 1.6 percent to 34.49
yuan in  Shanghai  and slid 2.2 percent to HK$58.30 in Hong Kong.
HSBC Holdings Plc is in talks to sell its $9 billion stake in
Ping An. The bank “is in discussions which may or may not lead
to the sale of the shares,” according to a statement today.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  