-- Christine Lagarde’s Uncharted Asian Territory
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-11-19T22:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/christine-lagarde-s-uncharted-asian-territory.html
Christine Lagarde ’s Asia charm
offensive ended on a rather discordant note.  The head of the  International Monetary Fund  cut short her
Asia trip to attend the umpteenth meeting of euro-area finance
ministers on Greece. It was a stark reminder that with the West
either in recession or political paralysis, the IMF is giving
short shrift to Asia, a place that could use more face time with
the woman in charge of the world’s economic rescue squad.  Lagarde’s Asia trek was meant to woo a region that, 15
years after its own crisis, helps power the world economy. She
got in a bit of wooing in  Malaysia  and the Philippines. In  Kuala
Lumpur , she stood shoulder-to-shoulder with Zeti Akhtar Aziz,
Malaysia’s internationally respected central-bank governor. In
 Manila , Lagarde paid her respects to Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima and central-bank head  Amando Tetangco  for their success
in reviving the perennial sick man of Asia.  And then, poof, she was gone. Her trip to  Cambodia  for the
East Asia Summit was scrapped, along with a rare chance to catch
up with leaders from  Australia ,  India ,  Japan ,  New Zealand ,
Russia and South Korea. All for another European debt confab
that will resolve what? A summit bubble, anyone?  I’m a big believer in the inverse relationship between the
number of summits and the result each produces. No one doubts
Lagarde’s sincerity about this next one in which 17 euro
countries will get together in an effort to cut Greece’s debt to
sustainable levels. But let’s be real. None of the countless
powwows have done so. A year or two from now, Europe will still
be dueling with  Athens  and its debt.  Asia’s Importance  All this says two things about today’s IMF. One, like too
many European leaders, IMF officials are living in denial about
the magnitude of the West’s problems if they think another
gathering and yet another communique matter. Two, they don’t
grasp the importance of  Asia  and its growing challenges.  The IMF’s defenders will surely take exception. But Lagarde
missed a perfect chance to address Asian leaders directly on
their turf on everything from weak global growth to financial
instability to widening income gaps to optimal regulatory
approaches. She missed out on pressing China on reforms after
its leadership change; India and Indonesia on attacking
corruption and weathering surging food prices; Vietnam on its
latest market crash; Laos on its bid for  World Trade
Organization  membership; and Singapore on a possible chill in
its immigration policies.  Her time in Phnom Penh, Cambodia, would have been a timely
opportunity to feel out Japanese and South Korean officials on
next month’s elections. Or talk some sense into Asia over the
territorial disputes driving it apart. Why not debate the logic
of the currency-reserves arms race that has occurred since
Asia’s 1997 crisis and discuss the pros and cons of  capital
controls ? The mix of recession, poverty and increasing hunger
among Asia’s billions might make Europe’s crisis seem manageable
by comparison.  Lagarde could have worked the room at the  East Asia Summit 
to see what Europe can learn from Asia’s crisis response. Europe
could do worse than emulate how quickly countries such as South
Korea confronted the magnitude of their debt and structural
flaws, implemented sweeping changes and began thriving.  It hasn’t escaped notice in Asia that the IMF is treating
Europe very differently. Fifteen years ago, the IMF demanded
that Asia raise  interest rates , boost currencies, cut debt,
force banks to write down bad loans and let companies fail in
exchange for bailouts.  Coddling Europe  Now Asia looks on, often aghast, at how the IMF coddles
Europe with ever-growing amounts of aid and misplaced patience.
In Manila last week, Lagarde said discussion on  Greece  “isn’t
over till the fat lady sings.” Well, she won’t sing for a long,
long time because IMF policies defer the needed reforms.  The IMF needs Asia. No big economic or environmental issue
can be solved without China’s participation. It also needs money
from Japan, China, India, Australia, South Korea and other
economies in the region. Lagarde’s visits to Malaysia and the
Philippines were, in part, to show appreciation for their
contributions to a $461 billion increase in the IMF’s resources
this year, when the U.S. and Canada abstained.  I like and respect Lagarde. I believe the IMF has benefited
greatly from her presence in  Washington . And granted, Lagarde is
a busy person with  Europe ’s mess, the U.S. teetering on its
self-inflicted fiscal cliff and sparks flying in the Arab world.
Her resources are stretched a bit thin.  It is important, though, for IMF officials to focus on
Asia, a region on the front lines of every risk facing the
global economy. Lagarde may be courting bigger trouble if she
doesn’t spend more time there.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  