-- Colombia Resumes Talks With FARC Rebels to End 50-Year War
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2012-11-19T16:23:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/colombia-resumes-talks-with-farc-rebels-to-end-50-year-war-1-.html
Colombian government negotiators will
sit down in  Havana  today to resume peace talks with Marxist
rebels, after a 10-year U.S.-backed military offensive weakened
 Latin America ’s oldest guerrilla movement.  Guerrillas from the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia,
or FARC, marked the talks by  declaring  a two-month halt to attacks
from midnight tonight. The presidency, which has repeatedly
rejected a cease-fire, didn’t immediately respond to a phone call
seeking comment.  The rebels are demanding an end to foreign mining and energy
companies profiting from the Andean nation’s oil and mineral
wealth and the scrapping of Colombia’s free trade pact with the
U.S. The government of President  Juan Manuel Santos  is insisting
the rebels stick to a 5-point agenda, which includes rural
development and a search for a solution to drug trafficking.  “We are not going to negotiate Colombia’s development model,
or the government’s policies,” the government’s chief negotiator
Humberto De La Calle said yesterday at a military airport in
Bogota as he left for Cuba. “Nor are we asking the FARC to
abandon their ideas.”  The prospect of an end to half a century of bloodshed halted
a slide in Santos’ popularity, polls show. That could change if
Colombian voters think the government is being too soft on the
FARC, said  James Robinson , David Florence Professor of Government
at  Harvard University , who has written a book on Colombia’s
economic history.  ‘Complicated Path’  “The government has to craft something that they can
implement and that voters can put up with, and that is a very
complicated path to tread,” Robinson said in a phone interview.
“Most people are in favor of the process, but when you start
looking at specifics they’re much less in favor of making big
concessions.”  Santos’ approval ratings rose to 58 percent last month from
51 percent in August, according to a poll by Gallup Colombia
published in El Tiempo newspaper. While 72 percent of Colombians
back the talks, only 39 expect the two sides to reach an agreement
that ends the conflict. The poll of 1,200 people in  Colombia ’s
five biggest cities had a margin of error of plus or minus three
percentage points.  The outcome of the talks may be decisive in whether Santos is
re-elected to a second four-year term in 2014, said Maria Victoria
Llorente, Executive Director of Fundacion Ideas Para la Paz, a
Bogota-based think tank that monitors the conflict.  Dependent on Talks  “Once more, the future of the presidency of this country is
trapped in a process of negotiation with the FARC,” Llorente said
in a telephone interview. “Clearly the government of President
Santos bet on this, and it’s clearly a bet on re-election.”  After the failure of the last peace talks in 2002, Colombian
voters elected President  Alvaro Uribe , who advocated a hard line
against the FARC. Under his presidency, the government
strengthened its armed forces and, backed by U.S. military aid,
retook swathes of territory from the guerrillas. Since Santos was
elected in 2010, the government has tracked down and killed the
group’s top two leaders, and dozens of its mid-level commanders.  Even in their weakened state, the FARC had kept up attacks on
army patrols and on the oil industry, which generates about half
of the country’s exports. Attacks on oil pipelines almost tripled
to 142 in the first ten months of the year, from 52 in the same
period in 2011, according to Defense Ministry statistics. Santos
has dismissed calls for a cease-fire during the talks.  Strength  “Both sides are trying to demonstrate their strength,” said
 Adam Isacson , a Colombia specialist at the  Washington  Office on
Latin America. “The guerrillas want to show that they are not
defeated, and that they don’t have to give up everything at the
negotiating table, because they remain a force on the
battlefield.”  The guerrilla leader Marquez, a member of the group’s seven-
man ruling council whose real name is Luciano Marin Arango,
declared the group’s unilateral cease-fire in Havana today.
Marquez opened the first meeting in Oslo last month with an attack
on Colombia’s super-rich, and on the “demon” of capitalist
exploitation of Colombia’s oil and mineral wealth.  The five points on the agenda are agrarian development,
political participation, the end of the conflict, a solution to
illegal drugs, and the treatment of victims of the conflict.  Tanja Nijmeijer, a Dutch citizen who joined the Marxist
guerrilla movement a decade ago, has traveled to Havana for the
talks. A U.S. federal grand jury in Washington indicted Nijmeijer
and 17 other FARC members for their involvement in the kidnapping
of three U.S. citizens, the U.S. Justice Department said in
December 2010. The defendants face as many as 60 years in prison
if convicted.  The economy could see growth of 6 percent to 7 percent “for
decades” if the government strikes a peace deal with the Marxist
rebels, Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said in a September
interview. Colombia’s  4.5 percent  average growth in the past
decade has outpaced Brazil and  Mexico , the region’s biggest
economies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  