-- Colombia Yields Decline for Third Day on Plan to Reduce Tax Rate
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-11-20T00:06:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/colombia-yields-decline-for-third-day-on-plan-to-reduce-tax-rate.html
Colombia ’s peso bond yields fell for
a third day after the government revised a  proposal  for taxes on
foreigners’ bond profits, reducing a levy of 14 percent and
removing a means for policy makers to increase the rate.  The yield on the 10 percent peso-denominated bonds due in
July 2024 fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
6.20 percent, the lowest on a closing basis since Nov. 8,
according to the central bank.  “We should continue to see yields fall gradually,” said
Daniel Velandia, the head of research at Correval SA brokerage
said by phone from Bogota. He forecast the yield on the bond due
in July 2024 will fall to below 6 percent at the beginning of
next year if Congress approves the tax initiative.  The government is proposing cutting the tax on foreigners’
bond profits from about 33 percent in a bid to lure more
overseas investors to the  debt market  and lower local borrowing
costs. The new law would also exempt returns derived from
currency gains.  Colombia’s local bond yields will fall to a record low
relative to overseas debt if Congress passes the tax initiative,
Public Credit Director Maria Fernanda Suarez said in an
interview today.  The yield differential between peso bonds sold domestically
and abroad will narrow by about 1 percentage point should the
measure be approved, Suarez said. Colombia’s local notes due in
2024 yield 1.97 percentage points more than similar-maturity
international debt, up from a record low 1.28 percentage points
on Oct. 12.  A previous version of the proposal called for cutting the
 tax rate  to 12.5 percent while allowing for the levy to be
raised to 25 percent should the government “determine that
market conditions are favorable for attracting foreign portfolio
investment.” The government has said it expects Congress to
approve the tax plan by year-end.  The peso appreciated 0.3 percent to 1,818.46 per  U.S.
dollar , extending its rally in November to 0.8 percent, the
biggest among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  