-- Colombia Local-Foreign Bond Yield Gap to Narrow, Suarez Says
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-11-19T23:03:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-19/colombia-local-foreign-bond-yield-gap-to-narrow-suarez-says.html
Colombia ’s local bond yields will
fall to a record low relative to overseas debt if Congress
passes a bill to reduce a levy on foreign investors’ bond
profits, Public Credit Director Maria Fernanda Suarez said.  The yield differential between peso bonds sold domestically
and abroad will narrow by about 1 percentage point should the
measure be approved, Suarez said in an interview from her Bogota
office today. Colombia’s local notes due in 2024 yield 1.97
percentage points more than similar-maturity international debt,
up from a record low 1.28 percentage points on Oct. 12.  The government is proposing cutting the tax on foreigners’
bond profits to 14 percent from about 33 percent in a bid to
lure more overseas investors to the  debt market  and lower local
borrowing costs. The new law would also exempt returns derived
from currency gains. Colombia will continue to buy dollars in
the foreign-exchange market to help offset an appreciation of
the peso sparked by a surge in foreign investment if the law is
approved, Suarez said.  “The yield differential shows us there is an unsatisfied
appetite from foreign investors in entering the peso curve,”
Suarez said. “At least half of the spread can be attributed to
the complexity of the current tax structure, to that red tape.
You would expect that spread to fall by at least 50 percent.
There are mechanisms to contain the temporary currency
effects.”  Trading Volume  About 3 percent of the local  government bonds , known as
TES, are currently in hands of overseas investors, Suarez said.  Colombia will continue to purchase the greenback for its
oil stability fund, where 20 percent to 30 percent of royalties
are saved in dollars, according to Suarez.  Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  has said the fund will
end the year with $1 billion in dollar holdings, compared with
$500 million at the end of September.  Trading volume in the local debt market has dropped this
month after Interbolsa SA’s brokerage said Nov. 1 it couldn’t
meet a loan payment, leading Cardenas to announce Nov. 7 that
regulators will liquidate the company. Interbolsa, the nation’s
biggest brokerage, was also part of the finance ministry’s
market-makers program.  Trading volume, which is typically low in December, will
likely rebound in January, Suarez said.  “A situation like we had with Interbolsa created levels of
uncertainty much higher than what we had previous to the
event,” Suarez said. “The reading I have is that a lot of bank
treasuries and many institutional investors have said for now,
‘I’ll stay put.’ I’d expect a recovery at the start of 2013.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  